EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE had the pleasure of attending the
Relief Society conference of Utah Stake
held at Provo on Friday Jan. 13, 1898,
Mrs. Mary John presiding. Although the
weather was severe there was a good at-
tendance some of the sisters having come
from a distance; the reports were very good.
Presidents Edward Partridge and David John

[Column 2]
addressed the conference in the afternoon.
The silk industry was one of the principal
subjects dwelt upon by several of the speak-
ers. Sister B. J. Simons gave some inter-
esting reminiscences of the days of Kirt-
land and the Prophet Joseph, with whom
she had been personally acquainted.
	MADAME LYDIA MAMREOFF VON FIN-
KLESTIEN MOUNTFORD visited Salt Lake
City for a few days during the present
month and while here called on some of the
friends with whom she had become ac-
quainted during her sojourn here before
going to California. The Madame is favor-
ably impressed with Utah and its people,
especially those who came here from re-
ligious motives; she had frequent opportuni-
ties of defending our people while in Cali-
fornia and did not hesitate to tell the truth.
Madame Mountford is a most remarkable
woman; her wonderful personality is par-
ticularly striking; in conversation she is
brilliant, versatile and scholarly. She
makes friends immediately with those to
whom she is attracted. Madame Mountford
addressed the large congregation in the
Tabernacle on Sunday afternoon January
8, the substance of her remarks are given
in another part of this paper. She is fami-
liar with the Scriptures as also with the
land of Palestine and the regions round
about where the Savior and His Apostles
traveled and preached the truths of the Gos-
pel. Madame Mountford bade good bye to
Salt Lake City and her friends here on
Tuesday evening and left for Toronto
where she will remain a short time, then
go on to New York and will probably sail
for Europe in April, from whence she will
return to her home in Jerusalem. She
does not expect to visit America again in
this century.
	THE new Club House of the Ladies
Literary, was formally opened to its mem-
bers and invited guests on Friday, January
7, 1898—twenty-one years from its organ-
ization. It was a glad day for the Club,
and indeed all club women should rejoice
when such material progress is made, for
these things all help and give a permanent
significance to woman’s advancement.
There is ever an inspiration in the home
and there will doubtless be in the home of
the club; much can be done in various
ways that it was exceedingly difficult to do
when the club was not so well located. Mrs.
W. A. Nelden presided in a very dignified
manner, Mrs. Arthur Brown gave the re-
port of the building committee, after which
she presented the House and grounds to
the club in a very graceful speech. Mrs.
Nelden thanked the committee in behalf of
the club in an appropriate way. Mrs. Gil-
christ read a paper on the history of the
club in the past. Mrs. Vollmer sang two
German ballads, and Mrs Royle, who is
styled the “Mother of the Club,” read a
paper entitled “The Life of the Club.”
Georgia Snow Carlton who opened her
home for the first meeting of the club made
a few impromptu remarks and Mrs. Plum-
mer sang “Winken, Blinken and Nod,”
Mrs. Inglehart read some poems of Paul
Lawrence Dunbar (negro dialect) in the
dialect, which every one enjoyed. Several
gifts of value were received, a collection of
valuable books from Mrs. Hamilton, a
piano from Mrs. Bamberger, dancing floor
finish from Mr. Nelden, beautiful vase and
carnations from Bishop Elias Morris, and
other things of value. The hall was beauti-


fully decorated as also the tea-room down
stairs. The guests and members were
served with Russian tea and dainty wafers,
beautiful girls flitted here and there among
the flowers and plants handling the delicate
china.


