A WONDERFUL MANIFESTATIOM.

To Our Beloved Exponent:
	DEAR SISTERS:—Thinking perhaps a
few lines from a mother in Israel can find
space in your valuable paper, I write you
concerning the sickness of Sister Mary
Holmes Dalton which she was called
to pass through, wherein she came near the
portals of death, and only through the
blessing of God was her life spared.
	She was taken sick on Friday Oct. 1,
1897, and on Sunday morning the 3rd their
baby boy came to their home. The moth-
er’s dangerous condition and the very deli-
cate and tiny figure looking so frail, brought
sadness and the greatest anxiety to the
hearts of those who were laboring to bring
comfort and relief to the suffering.
	On Monday night she saw many strange
scenes and talked a great deal of a brother
who was, and is now, laboring in Mississip-
pi as a missionary, preaching the Gospel of
our Savior to a benighted world.
	She says: “I was very happy, more hap-
py than words can express, and it seemed
that I was enrapted in something very
heavenly and that my brother William was
with me and that we were rejoicing because
we had brought happiness to a great many
people, but in what way was not shown to
me. 
	“This strange, happy feeling continued
with me, though at the same time I was
suffering severe pain. On Tuesday the 4th
the Elders and all present were united in 
prayer. About 1 o’clock p. m. I desired
to be alone, thinking perhaps I would be
able to sleep as I had become more free
from pain, and had not slept any since tak-
ing sick. I was immediately left alone ex-
cepting my husband who laid down on the
bed beside me. He had laid there but a
few minutes when I realized that I was dy-
ing. I lay several minutes thinking of my


[Column 1]
family and of leaving my three little boys,
and many scenes passed through my mind.
	“I spoke to my husband and told him I
desired to be prayed for as I was dying and
wished to be given up into the hands of my
Heavenly Father that He might do with
me as He would. The Elders, my hus-
band and my sister, Mrs. Robison, came in
and each one prayed in turn, dedicating me
to the Heavenly Father and asking His will
to be done not ours.
	“After this I seemed to have no desire to
live. I told my husband many things un-
til it seemed I could talk no longer, my
breath being so short and my strength gone.
I felt that I would very soon clasp hands
with my dear mother and sister who had
a number of years before left us, to join 
many other loved ones in the spirit world.
Though I did not see them I felt that they
were with me.
	“I here remembered a saying that I once
heard in a sermon delivered by President
Joseph F. Smith in the Logan Temple on
fast day. I will relate it here before going
farther. He was preaching to the young,
those who had come for the purpose of get-
ting married. He told them if they could
come to the Temple prepared to labor there
one week at least so that they would be
able to remember those things which were
so necessary for them to remember, as go-
ing through one day they would be apt to
forget many things, and he showed them
how terrible they would feel if they should
die and come to the veil and their loved
ones would be there to take them through
and they had forgotten everything that had
been taught them in the holy Temple, and
would not be able to go farther on account
of their forgetfulness or unworthiness.
	These sayings came to me and I wonder-
ed if I would be in this condition, when I
began to pray my Heavenly Father to help
me to remember all that had been taught.
While thus praying it was made known to
me that if I desired I could return, or I
could go on just as I wished. I could see
at once that by returning, if I remained
faithful, I would have greater blessings
than if I departed this life. I also per-
ceived that there would be suffering and
great trials to be borne. 
	When I looked back and thought of re-
turning it seemed that I could not endure
the thought, it looked so dark and gloomy
and I felt a desire to go on. It was then
shown to me the great amount of work to
be done and the few laborers there were to
do this work.
	It was a wonderful scene; I decided at
once to return. I had no sooner made up
my mind to return than it seemed that I
was caught up, as it were, and oh! such a
glorious, heavenly feeling as came over me
it is impossible to describe. I knew I had
done right by returning, yet I also felt that
those loved ones on the other side would
have been glad to have welcomed me home
to them.
	“I turned at that moment and told those
present that I should live. I began to im-
prove from that very moment and today,
December 10, I am doing a great
deal of my work; though I am not well I
feel that I will soon be back to my natural
strength again, for which I am very thank-
ful.
	“I know and feel to bear my testimony to
you that it was only through the blessings
of my Heavenly Father that my life was
spared and that I am now living. I also

[Column 2]
bear my testimony to the truth of what I
have written, and I pray that it may be of
benefit to all those who read it as this is the
object for which it is written.
	“I know that what I witnessed and all
that passed before my view was from God,
and I feel very desirous to spend all my
time and all that the Lord has given me to
help accomplish this work that I saw, and I
know that it was the work of God and that
it must be accomplished though the labor-
ers are few.
	“Our darling baby was called home on
the 10th inst., the Heavenly Father gave
him to us, he came, took a body and re-
turned.
	“I pray that we may all stand firm to the
truth and help to roll on this mighty work,
which is ever the prayer of
		“Your sister in the Gospel,
