UTAH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

	THE organization of the State Historical
Society of Utah, which has been under way
since the midsummer Jubilee, was effected
at a meeting held first Tuesday Jan. 1898.
The meeting occured in the counting room
of the Utah National Bank, and assembled
in response to a call from the temporary
chairman, Mr. Jerrold R. Letcher. The
by-laws of the society were adopted and
the articles of incorporation signed, after
which the officers were chosen as follows:
	Franklin D. Richards, president; Isabella
Cameron Brown, vice-president; Jerrold R.
Letcher, recording secretary; James T.
Hammond, corresponding secretary; Lewis 
S. Hills, treasurer; Antoniette B. Kinney, 
librarian.
	Executive comittee—George W. Thatch-
er, Logan; Joseph Geoghegan, Salt Lake;
Lewis W. Shurtliff, Ogden; Joseph B.
Kingsbury, Salt Lake; Electa Bullock,
Provo; John T, Caine, Salt Lake; Robert
C. Lund, St. George; Charles C. Goodwin,
Salt Lake; Henry W. Lawrence, Salt Lake.
	The objects for which the society is or-
ganized are: “The encouragement of his-
torical research and inquiry, by the explor-
ation and investigation of aboriginal monu-
ments and remains; the collection of such
material as may serve to illustrate the
growth, development and resources of Utah
and the intermountain region; the preserv-
ation of manuscripts, papers, documents
and tracts of value, especially narratives of
the adventures of the early explorers and
pioneers; the establishment and maintenance
of a public library and museum; the cultiva-
tion of science, literature and the liberal
arts; the holding of meetings at stated inter-
vals for the interchange of views and critic-
sms.
THE CHARTER MEMBERS.
	Charles Adams, Parowan; Caleb R. Bar- 
ratt, Robert N. Baskin, Charles W. Bennett,
Alexander C. Bishop, Nat M. Brigham,
Isabella Cameron Brown, Salt Lake; Electa
Bullock, Provo; John T. Caine, Angus
M. Cannon, John Q. Cannon, Spencer
Clawson, Edward F. Colborn, George Q.
Coray, Benjamin F. Cummings Jr., Chris
Diehl, John E. Dooly. Williard Done, Ellen


