 BOX ELDER STAKE.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle in Brigham City on Dec. 14,
1897, President Olivia Widerborg presid-
ing. Opened by singing “Now let us re-
joice in the day of salvation.” Prayer by
Counselor Zella Reese. Singing “Glorious
things are sung of Zion.” Roll called,
minutes read and accepted.
	President Olivia Widerborg made opening
remarks. She said: “We are but a few
present but I pray our Father to bless us
today and help us in the future, that we
may live as becomes Latter-day Saints.”
	President Mary Watkins of the 4th ward
said: “I have always been a great one to
go to meeting through my life; I have seen
many ups and downs in my life but never
once have seen a time that I wished to turn
away from the Gospel. I have always had
a testimony and that has been a great help
to me, it has grown right up with me.”
	Sister Theone Mickelsen, president
of the Scandinavian association said: I feel
thankful that I have my name in the king-
dom of Christ. May we always have a de-
sire to do our duty.”
	Counselor Mary E. Wright said: “I feel
thankful to see people put away little,
mean feelings and look at themselves, if
each one of us will do this we will be in the
right path. We should never neglect to
call upon our Father in heaven when all is
well with us, then we will have more per-
fect faith when we are in trouble.”
	President Susannah T. Booth of the 1st
ward said: “We all have to answer for our
own faults. Before we were organized we
seemed to be strangers, but being united in
this Society we have begotten a love for
each other.”
	Secretary Annie Wixom said: “I think
the nearer we live to God, the more we en-
joy the spirit of trust and confidence in
Him.”
	President Mary Jansen of the 3rd ward
said: “If we are not living better than
other people the Lord cannot bless us. Let
us be humble and keep near the Lord,
then we are on safe ground.”
	President Christine Jensen of Mantua
said: “We have had several sad deaths in
our little valley of late, several sisters and
two men.” Related a dream of one sister,
who before her husband returned from his
mission was told that he would remain

[Column 2]
home but a short time and then be called on
another mission, which proved to be a final
call.
	Sister Widerborg invited all present to
stay and take luncheon in the vestry. Sing-
ing “Do what is right.” Benediction by
Emelia D. Madsen.
	AFTERNOON SESSION- Singing “How
great the joy of the promised.” Prayer by
Counselor Charles Kelley. Singing “O say
what is truth.”
	President Rebecca Thorne of Three
Mile Creek said: We are trying to do and
get along the best we can under the circum-
stances. I pray we may be able to perform
faithfully the duties devolving upon us.
	Counselor Mary Harding of Willard,
said: “We have had quite a little sickness
and some yet exists through the lack of
faith, we should be careful and wise. I
consider that I need to have the Spirit of
God in politics just as well as in other
duties.”
	Secretary Sadie Hansen from Beaver
Dam, said: “We have with the help of the
brethren put up a granary this fall that
will hold two thousand bushels of wheat,
and put fifty bushels into it.”
	President Charlotte Boden of the 2nd
ward, said: “ I feel weak and often feel that
I do not come up to my ideal. I feel
thankful to be numbered one with yon.” 
	A sister from Bear River City, said there
was peace and unity among the sisters.
	Counselor Mary Grant of Huntsville,
said: “When I saw the Prophet Joseph I
knew he was a true prophet. I was but a
little child when father told mother that the
prophet was killed, they both wept, I was
ashamed to let them see me cry so I went
out doors and cried to the Lord, ‘O Lord
what shall we do when we have no pro-
phet?’ and it came as plain as if some one
had said it, ‘We can raise up another as
well as this one,’ and so the Lord did.”
	Counselor Zella Reese said: “We need the
Spirit of God in our every day lives, we
need to be united and set a proper example
before our children for the adversary is
abroad.”
	President Widerborg said: “There is a
great responsibility placed upon us, are we
today as careful as we ought to be in our
acts and in our words? I feel so anxious
that you and I should serve the Lord with
earnest hearts, never speak lightly of the
principles of the Gospel, let us never help
the adversary. Let every effort of our
hearts be to build up faith. In your meet-
ings do not allude to those who have receiv-
ed help, let the treasurer keep a correct ac-
count of any one who is in need, but never
allude to it. Let us do our duty and never
speak one word against one another or those
placed over us. You remember Sister
Bowring died three months ago, Sister Eu-
genia S. Pierce has promised to take her
place.” Here it was moved and seconded
that Sister Eugenia S. Pierce act as assist-
ant secretary of the Relief Society of the
Stake of Box Elder, the vote was unani-
mous.
	President Rudger Clawson said: “I have
listened with great interest to the reports
and testimonies this afternoon. When our
spirits came into the world there was a pur-
pose in it, there is something for us to do.
Wo always need to draw near unto the
Lord so when sickness comes into our
homes we may have faith; we ought not to
be alarmed but calm, that we may exercise
faith, and when the sick are healed give the


[Column 1]
Lord the glory, the time will come when it
will be an extremely dangerous thing to
trust in the hand of flesh. May you be
blest in every good work and deed, I ask it
in the name of Jesus. Amen.
	Counselor Charles Keeley referred to
deaths within the last six months, said:
“Mothers in Israel and the Relief Society
may God bless you in your labors of love,
and may you in very truth be a Relief Soci-
ety.”
	Sister Eugenia S. Pierce was then set
apart to act as assistant secretary by Presi-
dents Clawson and Keeley. Singing “Our
God we raise to Thee.” Benediction by
Bishop A. Janson. Adjourned for three
months.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN Cor. Sec.
ALBERTA, CANADA. 
	THE Relief Society met in conference in
the Cardston Assembly Hall, Stake Presi-
dent Mary L. Woolf presiding.  Opened by
singing “Come all ye sons of Zion.” Pray-
er by Elder Marsden. Singing “Redeemer
of Israel.” Roll was called, each member
responding with a sentiment on faith, min-
utes of the previous conference were read
and approved.
	President Mary J. Woolf made opening
remarks. She felt grateful that our worthy
president, Zina D. H. Young, was present,
that we had the privilege of beholding her
dear face once more, and felt it a blessing
to come to meeting and partake of the holy
influence that is with us and which we
should seek for in our homes to assist us
with our many labors. Felt thankful that
we were progressing and growing in good
works and prayed the Spirit of God would
permeate every heart today.
	Counselor Rhoda Hinman felt it a privi-
lege to bear her testimony and said we
should live every day as though it were our
last. She showed the necessity of reading
good books and storing our minds with
knowledge, and spoke of her trials while in
Nauvoo and of her association with Presi-
dent Zina D. H. Young, said it made us
appreciate the peace we are surrounded
with at the present time.
	Counselor Jane Hinman felt that in de-
pending on our Heavenly Father for bless-
ings we were sure of them, and felt grate-
ful for the bounteous harvest, felt that
through fasting and prayer the Lord had
rewarded us with a good harvest which
would enable us to get out of debt She
exhorted us all to be cheerful in our home
with our loved ones and felt it was an
era for women that would help us to keep
pace with the times and teach our children
wisely.
	The congregation sang “O My Father.”
President Zina D. H. Young felt that she
had been edified in listening to the remarks
made and felt they were words of inspira-
tion. Referred to Joseph Smith’s counsel
at the organization of the Relief Society,
said that the sisters did not realize the mag -
nitude of the work then begun, and that he
had now turned the key for women. Urged
all to be good and kind and bear their trials
patiently, trust in God, ask Him for strength
in faith and humility and never be guilty of
the sin of ingratitude. This land is a
blessed land and God’s Spirit is with the
people here, He is merciful to us all, it is
easier to raise children here where evil is
not around us than it is in some places, pray-
ed God to preserve us, that the land maybe
kept pure and never be polluted, and closed

[Column 2]
by asking God’s blessing upon all in her
sweet, motherly way.
	Elder C. O. Card felt it a blessing to
have wives and mothers who can testify to
the things of the kingdom and instil good
principles into the hearts of the children,
they are valuable mothers. It is our call-
ing to fulfill any mission placed upon us,
to impress upon the minds of our sons that
the Priesthood emanates from heaven.
	Elder Henry L. Hinman said he was in-
terested in everything pertaining to God’s
work, that was the reason he was there.
Urged all to seek the rich gift of wisdom,
take time to read good books and adorn our
minds which sheds faith, that bright lustre,
to all around. Our children are our heri-
tage in the world to come, they will profit
by the lustre in our minds and we can ac-
quire this by complying with the require-
ments of the Gospel, seek for the gifts that
will be most beneficial. Spoke of the
glorious Millenium, said much depends up-
on the course we take in this life, and pray-
ed God to bless all and in an especial man-
ner our beloved Sister Young.
	Sister Zina Y. Card, president of the Y.
L. M. I. A., urged all to step forth in the
dignity and magnitude of our calling and
fill the place, and not disappoint the Pro-
phet Joseph who turned the key and open-
ed wide the door for women. Said let us
live so that our names will live after we are
gone, and gain the riches of eternity the
deeds of kindness are remembered and not
the wealth we possess. Prayed God to
bless her aged mother that she might come
again.
	President Mary Woolf made a few closing
remarks urging the sisters to take the “Wo-
man’s Exponent,” and prayed the Lord to
bless and aid the sisters in their labors
The officers of the Relief Society over all
the world were sustained, also the Stake
officers. Conference adjourned by singing
“O ye mountains high.” Benediction by
Elder J. Anderson.
