				ETHEL B. FERGUSON.


[Column 1]
DAUGHTERS OF EVE.
	IN the oldest of all histories—the Bible—
woman stands out prominently in the pro-
cession of characters, and Sarah, Ruth,
Esther, Delilah and the Marys’ are the in-
carnations of all the varied passions that
move the world. The women of the
present time are only as yet making their
history. The mother of Washington and
the heroines of Lexington will be better re-
membered in the centuries to come than
they are now. It was a woman that put
heart into the weary soldiers with the
grandest war song ever written. It was a
woman’s taste in bunting that gave us the
glorious stars and stripes, and it was for
women, mothers, wives, sisters and sweet-
hearts that those same soldiers sang, and
singing died. I believe that intelligence
and a sense of freedom and equality with
men does not unfit a woman for the cares of
home and children; rather that contact with
the world of thought and action widens her
sympathies and strengthens her judgment.
And her influence with her sons and daugh-
ters as they grow up is ten fold greater than
that of the old-fashioned mother. She may
be less confiding, less clinging, but more
knowing. Let us educate our daughters
not only to love, honor and cherish their
husbands but to have other aims in life

[Column 2]
than the timid, yielding, old-fashioned
mother to whom a frown was as a blow,
and a cross word saddened her for a week.
Marriage need not necessarily be a failure.
Like every high condition it is difficult of
attainment; but it is so fine in its perfection
that one success compensates for many non-
successes. A woman’s soul and mind must
reach out and be an inspiration to her hus-
band. Learn something of his affairs, in-
terest yourself in his work. What you
don’t possess cultivate. A husband soon
ceases to care very much about a wife who
is mentally his inferior. Thackeray says,
“Love is immeasurably above all ambition
—more precious than wealth, more noble
than name. He knows not life who knows
not that; he hath not felt the slightest
faculty of the soul who hath not enjoyed
it.” while the new woman asks, “Is love
alone worth living for—worth dying for?”
It is the only satisfying good we can grasp
among the shifting shadows of our brief
existence. In its various phases and dffer-
ent workings is it after all the brightest
radiance known in the struggling darkness
of our lives? And does love always satis-
fy? Men find their pay for living in vari-
ous ways. Hope may lie to them, but
they always believe her, nevertheless. The
better things to come of which she tells all
men become indeed the substance of the
thing desired; that is expectation is a con-
stant joy and inspiration. The pay for
this day’s toil is the reward which is ex-
pected tomorrow. That reward may never
come but the hope remains, and so long as
that remains, and so long as that lives it
pays them to live that they may make
money and command the power that money
brings.
	If a truth it is that “man’s love is of his
life a thing apart,” why should it be “wo-
man’s whole existence?” To what an
enormous toil and sacrifice the love and pur-
suit of money urge a great multitude of
men until they become so absorbed in the
exciting struggle as to almost forget the
things that were once so dear to them; or at
least forget to give expression to words or
acts that mean so much to our own, given
us to be good to. Oftentimes they love
dearly, yet live a stingy, miserly life in re-
gard to their richest inward treasures, when
a few words or deeds expressive of this
love would make them both so much hap-
pier. And some women are so weak, so
helpless, so self-sacrificing, requiring a
strong and steady arm to lean upon. It is
very difficult for either man or woman to go
on believing in a love that never takes heed
for the object loved. The greatest heroism
I have ever found in human nature has
been in the lives of women. The man who
risks his life to rescue some drowning creat-
ure is not so brave as many a wife who en-
dures neglect, indifference and even disloy-
alty from one who has sworn to be her pro-
tector; and sits through long, lonely eve-
nings at home, looks alluring temptation in
the eyes and turns away, carrying a smil-
ing face to the world. The physical pain,
the heart-hunger, the lonely hours that
make half the life of the average woman
would drive the average man to the insane
asylum before he reached middle age. How
much we might make of our family life if
we only would, of our social intercourse, of
our friendships. How many kind words
we could speak, how many hearts make
glad.
