BY EMMA JENSON.
	POLYNESIA, or the region of many is-
lands, is the name usually given, with more
or less limitation, to the numerous groups
of islands and some few single islands scat-
tered throughout the great Pacific occan
between the eastern shores of Asia and the
western shores of America. In its widest
significance the term Polynesia embraces,
besides the group of smaller islands in the
Pacific, the various islands large and small
of the Indian Archipelago in one direction
and Australia, Tasmania etc., in another
Including these and all adjacent islands the
whole region is sometimes called Oceania
and sometimes Australasia. But in more
modern times the term Polynesia is applied
only to those groups of islands lying east of
the 180 parallel of Longitude because the
inhabitants of all these groups seem to be-
long to the same branch of the human fami-
ly, being very much alike in color, character-
istics, manners, customs, language etc.
Ethnographically New Zealand should also
be classed with Polynesia. The principal
groups of Polynesia are, however, on the
Sandwich Islands, Tonga, or the Friendly
Islands, the Marquesas group and many
other scattered islands that are not grouped
together under any particular name.
	Most of these islands and especially the
largest are volcanic in their origin, and some
are coraline. The volcanic islands some of
which have peaks varying in height from
one to fourteen thousand feet are often dis-
tinguished as the high islands; they consist
of basalt and the igneous formation. The
islands of coralline formation are low and
generally small. They are destitute of any
considerable elevation. Though various in
form the high islands have many character-
istics in common. Many of them are sur-
rounded by a barrier reef ranging in dis-
tance from a few hundred yards to thirty
miles from the shore. Such reefs rise near
the surface of the water and their presence
is indicated by a ring of feathery foam
around the island. There is, however, al-
most uniformly some deep open passage by
which a ship may cross the reef and find a
sheltered harbor between the reef and the
island. The Tuamotu Islands which lie
adjacent to the Society Islands are also call-
ed the Low Archipelago, because they are
nearly all low atolls or lagoon islands.
	Atoll is a name given by the Ualdive
islanders to circular coral reefs rising above
the sea and enclosing a lagoon. These cir-
cular reefs are covered with a luxuriant
vegetation in some places, thus forming
small motus or islands some of which are
several miles long but seldom over a quarter
of a mile in width. The lagoon within
may be but a small pool, or a great basin of
placid sea thirty or forty miles in length or
breadth. Upon the inner circle of the reef
and around the margin of the lagoon is the
favorite home of the native, sheltered from
the storms of the great sea without, with
the great basin within engirdled with its
strong barriers fringed with cocoanut palms

[Column 2]
and appears the very symbol of fruitfulness
and repose.
	Various theories have been advanced in
regard to the formation of the coralline is-
lands. Coral is the work of the polyps of
which there are many different species,
each forming different varieties of coral.
The substance of coral is carbonate of lime.
It is not formed by any design of the little
creatures that build it, but is the stony
frames of these polyps that have their brief
life and die clinging where they were born,
and thus age after age by slow accretions
their dead frames build the submarine for-
ests that are rooted in unfathomed depths
and wear their coronal of verdure above the
flood. It has been proven by tests that the
coral reefs reach down into a deeper sea
than the plummet can sound.
	But the coral polyps, it is believed, cannot
live at a greater depth than one hundred
and twenty feet; hence the theory most
popular regarding coral islands is, that all
the ocean was once very shallow and that it
has slowly increased in depth, the earth
sinking down; meantime the polyps ever
building, keep their structures towering
still near the surface.
	Another theory is that these islands are
partly volcanic, partly coraline; that the
subterranean fires have lighted great
mountains near the surface of the deep, and
upon the summits of these coral polyps have
begun to build their strange and mighty
structures.
	The inhabitants of the Pacific Islands
are clearly of two distinct races; those of the
more easterly islands, or Polynesia, have
long, straight hair very glossy, and bright
copper skin, “like the American aborigi-
nes.” And on the islands which dot the
the sea from Fiji to the eastern part of Java
the natives are of quite a different type,
having large frames, black skin and crisp
hair, with more of the general characteristics
of the Negro. Again upon other islands are
found a population which is a mixture of
the two races referred to.” of the origin of
the two races nothing is know historically;
but among the many theories advanced the
one which traces the Polynesians or copper
colored back to America, and the darker
race to Asia and Africa is certainly the most
consistent and is gaining ground among a
certain school of ethnographical students.
The dialects of the copper colored race are
sufficiently alike to indicate a common ori-
gin. The darker race speak a totally differ-
ent language. The perfection to which the
languages of the Polynesians have been
brought is a marvel. Savage like as they
were and still are to a certain extent, their
dialects are remarkably rich, pleasing and
expressive, adjusted to express the nicest
distinctions in ideas. These dialects are
spoken according to the strictest rules and
the most perfect grammatical principles.
	In intellectual capacity the Polynesian is
in many respects the equal of the European.
In depth of thought and profundity of re-
search he is far inferior. But in wit, quick-
ness of perception, tenacity of memory, in-
genuity, thirst for knowledge when its val-
ue is perceived, eloquence etc., the Europ-


ean or American is hardly superior. They
have a very strong appreciation of the
humorous and are always ready for a laugh,
being in this respect totally unlike the
average Asiastic.
	That the islands of the great Pacific were
never connected with the continents seems
to be proven by the fact that very few
anmials are found upon them. There are
no large animals of any kind in Polynesia.
it is not known whether rats are indigenous
or were introduced by passing vessels.; they
are now almost incredibly numerous upon
some of these islands. In some quarters
the missionaries find it necessary to have
some one keep the rats off the table during
meals, just as we keep off the flies.
	Of food supplying plants the most im-
portant are the bread fruit tree, the cocoa-
nut palm, the banana, the taro and a
species of yam. Of the bread fruit there
are several kinds which ripen at different
seasons of the year, and so enable the
natives to subsist with very little labor.
The sugar cane is indigenous and is now
extensively cultivated on some of the larg-
er islands. Most tropical fruits are grown
on some of the islands. The banana is es-
pecially valued for the great amount of fruit
it produces. The ground which in the
course of a year would produce 33 pounds
of wheat or 100 pounds of potatoes, will
yield 4,000 pounds of bananas.
	Perhaps Samoa affords as good a sample
of the Polynesian race as any group of is-
lands in the Pacific, for the natives here
have been brought less in contact with the
civilized world than have the people on
many of the islands, consequently their
customs and habits as compared with
Europeans and Americans are quite inter-
esting and peculiar.
	The natives of Samoa are a fine race of
people physically and as fair-skinned as
the natives of Hawaii and Tonga. But
while the Tongans are compelled by law to
cover their bodies from shoulder to knee,
no such law exists in Samoa; hence the
natives on ordinary occasions confine their
clothing to their vale vale, or waist-cloth,
On Sundays, however, the men wear a
shirt and the women a sort of sash in ad-
dition to the vale vale.
(Continued)


