
Vol. XVIII MAY, 1931 No. 5
EDITORIAL
Mothers' Day
As the activity of the Maternity Center Association of New York, Mother's Day this year is to have a new significance and an added factor of practical usefulness. Public-spirited men and women everywhere, educators, physicians, women's clubs, churches and civic organizations, are joining to center public attention on the fact that America's death rate from causes connected with maternity is the highest in the civilized world. The Maternity Center can speak with authority since it has been working on the matter for eight years with nearly five thousand mothers.
Louis I. Dublin, Ph. D., statistician of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, internationally known as an expert, has examined the records of 4,728 mothers cared for by the Maternity Center Association over a period of six years in a certain section of New York City. He compared the results with what happened to mothers in the same section of the city not receiving such care. This showed that those in the first group had about three times as good a chance to survive as the others.
The report says: "The result is indicative of the saving of lives that might be accomplished were all the mothers to receive the benefit of adequate maternity care, as more than sixteen thousand women in the United States every year die from causes related to maternity. This means that more than ten thousand deaths are preventable. In addition, 30,000 of the 100,000 babies who now
EDITORIAL 295
die in the first month of life, would be saved. Infants as well as mothers are protected by adequate maternity care."
Commending this campaign for Mother's Day, Surgeon General Cumming said, "The high maternal death rate in this country is a disgrace to our profession, and I am sure that efforts such as this will go far toward improving conditions."
Grace Abbott, chief of the Children's Bureau, endorsing the project, said, "There are no more tragic deaths than of mothers in childbirth, and I feel sure that if it were understood by people of the United States that to a very large extent these deaths are preventable they would be prevented."
Magazines and newspapers are to take up the campaign, radio talks from coast to coast are to be made by physicians and laymen, meetings of women's clubs are to conduct special programs designed to see what can be done to stop the waste in mothers' lives.
Dr. Ralph W. Lobenstein says: "An informed public opinion, demanding adequate maternity care, is a condition precedent to improvement." He points out that while typhoid fever, smallpox and diphtheria have yielded to scientific control in the last quarter of a century, and that tuberculosis has been reduced to half its toll, that the death rate from causes connected with maternity has not been lowered at all during the period for which records are available.
The Center points out that the essentials by which so many mothers' lives were saved who were taken under its care, are "a medical examination immediately upon the discovery that a baby is expected; frequent and regular examinations and instructions until the crucial time, adequate preparations for the birth itself, assuring the presence of the doctor and the nurse too; and remaining under the doctor's care for six weeks after."
Here is a wish for Mother's Day, May 10: "That every baby could be born healthy, and every mother escape the dangers which take 10,000 every year from preventable causes in childbirth.
"Something can be done to make this wish come true. Medical science, like a fairy Godmother, provides the means to reduce these ravages by offering modern maternity care as a gift to be had for the seeking."
Another Victory for Women
President Hoover has signed an amendment to the Cable Act, which was sponsored in the House by Ruth Bryan Owen.* This brings success to a twenty-five year campaign against laws that have deprived women of American citizenship when they married foreigners. By this act the United States has added its name to a list of thirteen nations that give women the same nationality rights with men. The Woman's Journal, of New York, gives this explanation of this amendment:
"The amendment to the Cable Act provides that an American woman shall not forfeit her citizenship, even though her alien husband
*Mrs. Owen once lost her own American citizenship rights through her marriage to a British Army officer.
296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
may because of race, nationality, or other causes be ineligible for citizenship.
"It permits women who have previously lost their citizenship by marriage to an ineligible alien to become repatriated without submitting to a long naturalization process.
"It also permits women married to aliens who have lived abroad for more than two years, and who have formerly been presumed to have lost their citizenship, to regain it."
The New York World-Telegram and the Buffalo Courier-Express give these interesting comments on the success of this campaign:
"The most important battle women have carried on since the suffrage campaign."
"A woman's right to her nationality should be equal to that of a man. So long as both have political equality, their rights to citizenship should rest on the same footing. This is so logical that anything to the contrary is absurd."
Twelve Outstanding Women
Good Housekeeping magazine recently invited nominations for a panel of the twelve most famous and greatest American women. A jury composed of such prominent men as Newton D. Baker, former secretary of war; Dr. Henry Van Dyke, the famous author and educator; Booth Tarkington, novelist; Otto Kahn, banker, and Bruce Barton, publicist and writer, made the final selections. This choice was made from a list of twenty-six women that had been culled from 2,786 nominations submitted by the readers of the magazine during a four months' survey.
Two interesting things about the results of the vote are that only four of the twelve women finally selected are married, and all of those chosen have shunned publicity, going about their work unostentatiously, working for an object, a cause, rather than for personal glory.
The list is arranged alphabetically, leaving it to individuals to place the names in the order of merit. Here are the twelve names selected:
Grace Abbott, Chief of the Federal Children's Bureau, and a leader in campaigns for child labor laws, children's clinics, and community nurseries; Jane Addams, whose work in Hull House and other pioneer achievements in social welfare work make her known the world over; Cecelia Beaux, an American artist, whose works hang not only in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, but also in some of the world's leading galleries; Martha Berry, whose work for mountain boys and girls of the South has led many to become successful because of the start that she gave them; Willa Cather, a novelist; Carrie Chapman Catt, the great woman suffrage leader and a worker for international peace; Grace Coolidge, whose endeavors to aid the handicapped have been so effective, and who is responsible for a million-dollar endowment for deaf mute children; Minnie Maddern Fiske, the noted actress, who is also famous for her
EDITORIAL 297
humanitarian work in behalf of animals; Helen Keller, who, though deaf, dumb and blind from infancy, has so developed her mind that she has won the highest educational attainments and honors, and has even learned to speak; Florence Rena Sabin, whose scientific work has brought her recognition from scientists all over the world; Ernestine Schumann-Heink, the noted singer; Mary E. Woolley, who as president of Mount Holyoke college for thirty years has influenced vastly the education of the women of the country.
Relief Society Handbook
Long and eagerly have our officers and members looked for the publication of a handbook. The April Relief Society conference of 1931 will go down in history as distinguished for the issuance of this greatly desired book. Much time and thought and efficient work have been put upon it, so that it comes forth attractively bound, clearly printed, comprehensive in its contents?a credit to the great Relief Society organization. It contains a brief, comprehensive history of the Society from its organization in 1842 to March, 1931, biographical sketches of the seven presidents of the Society, and the rulings, regulations and instructions that have been issued for the benefit of the Society from time to time. An interesting feature and one which the General Board has long felt necessary to be placed in the hands of the officers and members of the Society is a list of names of the charter members, the Nauvoo members, and all general officers and General Board members with the time of service from the first organization up to the time of its issuance. Every efficient officer will need to acquaint herself with what the book contains. It is worth re-reading many times. Every member should be happy to own a copy and read and digest the information it contains. Price: paper binding, 60c; cloth binding, 85c. Orders should be addressed to Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Hats Off
Several years ago a strenuous effort was made to get all women to remove their hats in places of public assembly. The law required it, church officials requested that women in church gatherings keep their hats off during the entire services. With the advent of the small, close-fitting hat, the vigilance relaxed and many women became law breakers, for the law was not revoked, the request was not withdrawn. There are so many reasons why women should remove their hats and so few why they should not that we are surprised how difficult it seems to get the majority of them to bare their heads in places of public assembly. It is much pleasanter for those who are behind to have all hats removed, and it is much more
298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
inspiring to the speaker who faces the women. Women thus show reverence for places of worship, those who remove their hats show consideration for the well being of others; they are law abiding, they show a readiness to observe the requirements of those in authority in the Church, and they add to the general appearance of public assemblies. What if removing the hat does disturb a few hairs? What if it is a little awkward to hold a hat on the lap? These are trivial considerations; the important thing is that we observe the law and cheerfully respond to the request of Church leaders.
"Mother Heart of Gold"
Theodore E. Curtis has issued his fifth Mother Day Booklet. The mothers featured this year are Julina L. Smith and Margaret McNeil Ballard?the tributes are beautifully written by their sons Joseph Fielding Smith and Melvin J. Ballard. A number of poems to be sung to well known tunes will be widely used. The popularity of the series is shown by the fact that 100,000 of the booklets have been sold during the past five years. Price 25c each. $1.35 per doz.

