The Waste in Mothers' Lives By Mrs. John Sloane, President Maternity Center Association New York City number of mothers dying from childbirth came to the attention of members of the Women's City Club of New York in 1917. They were aroused to action when they realized that, during the decade preceding, typhoid fever had been practically eliminated; tuberculosis had diminished from first to second place on the roster of lethal diseases; smallpox had been controlled; but deaths of mothers in childbirth had shown no reduction whatever. And this was in the face of the fact that obstetricians advised that adequate maternity care could prevent a large part of these deaths. Something soon began to happen. In the summer of 1917 a maternity center was opened, financed by the Women's City Club. Then, in April, 1918, a group of women met and conferred with several prominent obstetricians. They were inspired by these doctors with hope that the skill and care which showed such excellent results among their own patients could be extended to women at large. This led to the organization of the Maternity Center Association. It was predicted when the Association was organized that as a result of the activities which were outlined, the deaths of mothers in childbirth would be reduced by 66 per cent, and of infants under one month by 40 per cent. This is how nearly the prediction has come true. Among 4,726 mothers cared for by the Association, the deaths were reduced to A\ number of m facts about the 2.2 per thousand live births, as compared with 6.2 among mothers in the same district not under the care of the Association. Infant deaths in the first month of life were 29.1 in the special group, while they were 42.9 per thousand in the general population. The records of mothers cared for were analyzed by Louis I. Dublin, statistician of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, who made this comment: 'This result is indicative of the saving of lives that might be accomplished were every mother to receive adequate maternity care. More than 16,000 women in the United States die every year from causes related to maternity—the highest rate of any civilized nation. If these mothers received adequate maternity care 10,000 could be saved." The situation existing in this country can only be explained by the fact that childbirth is so commonplace and the accidents attendant upon it are accepted as the will of God. The lack of care is due to an uninformed public rather than to the lack of medical knowledge. It is not indifference but ignorance that allows us to continue last on the list of nations in the maternity care we provide. "One of the most dramatic of all human events, the birth of a new being, is accepted casually, almost without concern, because it is so frequent—so commonplace." The cold, bare, terrible fact is that we, as a people, are not aroused THE WASTE IN MOTHERS' LIVES sufficiently to this national disgrace to take the necessary measures to remove it. Maternity hazards can be reduced by money wisely expended in any community when doctors, nurses and lay people will learn how to work together to provide adequate maternity care for every expectant mother. The need today is to set into op265 eration the machinery which will bring to doctors, nurses and the public what obstetricians have learned will save mothers' lives. Your State Department of Health and the Children's Bureau at Washington, D. C., will send helpful literature on request, or write to the Maternity Center Association, 576 Madison Avenue, New York City.
