Mothers of Men By Vernessa Miller Nagle
Good Housekeeping Magazine recently conducted through its pages a contest for the purpose of determining the twelve greatest living American women. This contest has attracted nation-wide interest. The names of twenty-two women were featured representing twenty-two various walks of life. Front page prominence was not to be considered a test of their greatness, for such distinction often means only momentary fame. Among these twenty-two eminent women were the names of a consulting engineer, historian, composer, stateswoman, worker for the blind, singer, actress, athlete, sociologist, and wife and mother.
That among these many professions of life, that of wife and mother should be listed is significant. It appears to be the glorifying of the commonplace. It means that being a wife and mother is at last considered in the light of a business or profession. Ida M. Tarbell has written a delightful little book on "The Business of Being a Woman." She says, "The meaning of honor and of the sanctity of the principles of democracy and of the society in which we live, the love of humanity, and the desire to serve?these are what make a good citizen. The tools for preparing herself to give this training are in the woman's hands. * * It is not too much to say that the success of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution depended, in the minds of certain early Democrats, upon the woman. The doctrines of these great instruments would be worked out according to the way she played her part. Her serious responsibility came in the fact that her work was one that nobody could take off her hands."
Nancy Hanks, mother of Lincoln, was a woman of simplicity and strength. She had married his father because she loved him, and when Abe was born she was living with his father in the poorest kind of shack in the wildest part of Kentucky. But, even though she may have felt the pinch of poverty, she did her duty toward this boy tenderly and with the affection of motherhood. She taught him not only to read, but she awakened his imagination with fairy stories and legends that influenced his nature all through his life. His kindness, humor, humanity, and hatred of slavery come from his mother.
William Lloyd Garrison was a man of conscientious convictions that came directly from that mother of whom, in later years, he wrote in a letter to his fiancee: "I had a Mother once who cared for me with passionate regard. Her mind was clear, vigorous, creative, and lustrous, and sanctified by an ever-glowing piety. How often did she watch over me?weep over me?and pray over me."
Robert E. Lee's father died when Robert was but eleven years of age and the responsibility of rearing the lad fell entirely upon his mother. So many of the praiseworthy characteristics of this mother have found their counterpart in the life of her son.
It has been possible for the painter with his brush to transfer the
300 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
landscape to the canvas with such fidelity that the trees and grasses seem almost real; but perhaps one of the most perfect reproductions of a subject of life is Whistler's immortal portrait of his mother. In this picture we see all that Whistler so much adored in his mother.
One of the prominent speakers at the Women's Encampment last Summer spoke these words, "Happiness in life lies in its echo." I have often thought of these words as applying to this business of homemaking. The echoes of any successful mother's life are those splendid men and women with whom she enriches society. Many a little mother has foregone the self-satisfaction that comes from a successful career and has found the echo of her fame in the achievement of her boys and girls.
Theodore Roosevelt has said regarding mothers, "The mother who does her part in rearing and training aright the boys and girls who are to become the men and women of the next generation, is of a greater use to the community and occupies, if she only would realize it, a more honorable position, as
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 301
well as important one, than any so-called successful business man."
"A Lantern in Her Hand," by Bess Streeter Aldrich, is the story of a woman who found the happiness of her life in its echoes. As a young girl Abbie harbored great hopes of a wonderful musical career. All who heard her sing gave her encouragement. But there were so many things to interfere?the coming of the babies, the droughts of '78, '79 and '90. Through all the hardships and poverty she sang on and on. Oftimes it was a song of despair, but always she tried to make it a song of hope. At last Abbie realizes that her own ambitions must be sacrificed on the altar of love. The joy she found in the success of her sons and daughters was recompense for all.
The American woman has played an honorable part in the making of our country, and for this part she should have full credit. There are many women who through riches become idle, selfish, miserable, and anti-social. But they are not the women upon whom society depends; they are not the ones who build the nation?the mothers of men.

