Growing Old with the Poets By Lois V. Hales WE must all grow old or die. It is important that we grow old successfully. Each one of us has an idea of the ideal way of growing old. We may not be conscious of it until we read books and poetry which arouse us either to agreement or disagreement. Then we become conscious of our own philosophy—what we would like to think, feel, recall, look forward to in our old age. Poets often help us to find ourselves. Generally youth is considered the golden time of life, the time of high thoughts, daring deeds, grand adventure. There are poets who look forward with dread to the time when they shall be old. Edwin Arlington Robinson complains that as he grows older the stars are not "quite so friendly, nor quite so near." To him we are nearer God in our childhood and youth. Heaven is far off in age. Stoddard mourns for his lost youth with which went something never to return. We are stronger and better in age, he says, but "Something beautiful is vanished, And we sigh for it in vain; We behold it everywhere, On the earth, and in the air, But it never comes again." Winifred Welles in her exquisite little poem "Lifetime," says that she must "grow old and sleep into indifference." There is no turning back. All she asks is to go onward close to the dark, sweet earth— "With the sky's mark hidden in my breast, And a star's shadow falling on my face." Death is the "beautiful and bitter sea." Some of us are so afraid to live "for fear that we may die." Often we hear our older people say that for them "life is over." They look back instead of forward and always with a sense of regret. However, there are many who see themselves growing old without any feeling of remorse or regret. Robert Browning at the age of seventy-seven, rejoiced that he had lost the rose-colored glasses of youth and could now look at the world nakedly, clearly, wholly. Old age, to him, was rich and good. "Come," he states, "Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made... * * * Youth shows but half; trust God; see all, nor be afraid." We need not lose our enthusiasms as we grow old. They change for we grow out of things—we change to finer things. "A well-ordered life," says William Lyon Phelps, "is like climbing a tower; the view half way up is better than the view from the base, and it steadily becomes finer as the horizon expands." "We live in deeds, not years; in thoughts, not breaths; In feelings, not in figures on a dial. We should count time by heart throbs. He most lives Who thinks most, feels the noblest, acts the best." John Masefield in his famous poem, "On Growing Old," says that now that he cannot sail seas, wander on cornland, nor hill-land, nor valleys, he asks only his old dog, his old book and his sense of beauty which is the "bread of the soul." "Give me but these, and, though the darkness close, Even the night will blossom as the rose." GROWING OLD WITH THE POETS To Sarah Cleghorn age is like a captain returning with a great sea-chest of treasure. She is content to climb the hill of life hoping that the other side "shines on a silver shore." Rupert Brooke in his little poem "Treasure" asks for some golden space in his life when he may unpack his scented store of memories and count and touch and turn them o'er as a mother, who "Has watched her children all the rich day through, Sits, quiet-handed, in the fading light, When children sleep, ere night." John Burroughs waits with joy the coming years for his heart shall reap where it has sown, and "garner up its fruit of tears." "Serene I fold my hands and wait, Nor care for wind, nor tide, nor sea. I rave no more 'gainst time or fate, For lo my own shall come to me." Sara Teasdale thinks that "the heart asks more than life can give." When she is old she will have learned this lesson and then the beauties of life will not hurt her. Symons feels that in this life we let slip so much, we are so little awake, and we shall sleep so long, that we should live this life consciously, fully, valiantly. In "An Old Thought" we see the difference between youth and age as seen by another poet. Old in the cavernous fireplace sits a boy, Watching the embers from his grandsire's knee, One sees red castles rise, and laughs with joy The other marks them crumble silently. To Robinson Jeffers old age is the time to gloat over one's treasures. "The Beads of strong old age are beautiful 277 Beyond all grace of youth. They have strange quiet, Integrity, health, soundness, to the full They've dealt with life and been attempered by it." "Praise Youth's hot blood if you will, I think that happiness Rather consists in having lived clear through Youth and hot blood, on to the wintrier hemisphere Where one has time to wait and remember." Some think that youth is not a time of life—it is a state of mind. Nobody grows old by merely living a number of years. People grow old by doubt; as young as your self-confidence, as old as your fear; as young as your hope, as old as your despair. In the central place of your heart there is a wireless station. "So long as it receives messages of beauty, hope, cheer, grandeur, courage, and power from the earth, from men, from the infinite, so long are you young." William Butler Yeats in his poem "When You Are Old" says, "When you are old and gray and full of sleep, And nodding by the fire, take down this book, And slowly read, and dream of the soft look, Your eyes had once, and of their shadows deep." Rosamund Watson says that as she grows old she will rejoice that the world is yet young, that spring will come again, that the birds will sing. It will be sweet to know "That though my meagre days be withering Still shall be wrought the miracle of spring." She will rejoice that others are doing the things she would like to have done—that there are always adventurers on the hazardous sea of life. Lizette Woodworth Reese asks only for an old quiet house away from the town, a clump of lavender with "small cross bees astir," a few 278 tall well-thumbed books and "old friends who from the village walk on Sunday afternoons." To her "Whether we climb, whether we plod, Space for one task the scant years lend To choose some path that leads to God, And keep it to the end." To Oliver Wendell Holmes the ideal way to grow old is told in his famous poem, "Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea." Frances A. Kemble wants us to grow old in trust and hope. "Better trust; and be deceived, And weep that trust and that deceiving, Than doubt one heart that, if believed, Had blessed one's life, with true believing." Newman says there was a time when he loved to choose and see his path, but now "Lead, kindly Light, amid th' encircling gloom, Lead Thou me on: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The night is dark, and I am far from home, Lead Thou me on: Keep Thou my feet; I do not ask to see The distant scene; one step enough for me." Longfellow in his matchless sonnet likens age and death to the child who comes to love his toys and looks longingly back at them as the nurse takes him to bed. "So Nature deals with us, and takes away Our playthings one by one, and by the hand Leads us to rest so gently, that we go Scarce knowing if we wish to go or stay. Being too full of sleep to understand How far the unknown transcends the what we know." Ulysses, the great adventurer, gives us some of the most comforting and inspiring advice on growing old. "You and I are old; Old age hath yet his honor and his toil; Death closes all; but something ere the end, Some work of noble note, may yet be done, Not unbecoming men that strove with Gods."
