
THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XVIII MAY, 1931 No. 5 Sketches of Representative Women Of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints By Susa Young Gates WHEN the roll of honor is called in heavenly courts, the women whose names will lead all the rest will be those who have crowned wifehood and motherhood with the jewels fashioned out of the glowing sacrifices of their own hopes, ambitions, gifts and love. The names will be not those of the female poets and painters, the orators or authors who have emerged from domestic obscurity to emblazon their names on earthly scrolls of fame, but of those wives and mothers whose human masterpieces have gone out from their hearthstones to repeat again and again the dramas, comedies, and tragedies of life! And if life or opportunity have deprived the childless, husbandless woman of her God-ordained destiny, she too, if she has risen to her full womanly stature, whether her feet have trod the highways of fame or the byways of absorption in other related lives and interests, if she has preserved and developed her mothering instincts and qualities珦he, too, will be named among those chosen ones when He makes up His jewels. Augusta Winters Grant Wife of President Heber J. Grant MRS. AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT, wife of President Heber J. Grant, is a true representative of the womanhood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, sincere, modest, intelligent. Her life has expressed the best there is in wifehood and motherhood. Mrs. Grant was born July 7, 1856, at Pleasant Grove, Utah. Her ancestry answers the problem of her own distinguished and beautiful personality. Her puritan and American pioneer ancestry on both maternal and paternal lines molded the strong lines of courage, the delicate tracery of natural refinement and peace with the added resourcefulness which enabled them and their descendants to meet wisely and calmly life's daily problems. MRS. GRANT'S father, Oscar Winters, descended from two Puritan strains, the Burdicks and the Winters. His mother, Rebecca Burdick Winters, was a daughter of 248 Gideon Burdick who was a Revolutionary soldier. Gideon enlisted in 1776 in the Colonial Army at the age of 16 years, and served throughout the war with some years of subsequent service. He rose to the rank of lieutenant and finally to that of captain; but he began his record as a drummer boy. He enrolled from Charleston County, Rhode Island, and was with Washington on that fateful night, the 25th of December, 1776, when the ice-filled Delaware bore the determined American troops across and met and out-flanked the enemies' treacherous assault. Gideon vividly recalled and described to his descendants the scenes and tragic events of that night and his subsequent experiences. The war records show that he remained in active service until 1804. He was a pensioner of the government until his death. Gideon joined the Church in June, 1833, in Jamestown, New York, his whole family being baptized at the outlet of Lake Chautauqua, near Buffalo. Oscar Winters, son of Rebecca Burdick, grandson of Gideon, was a well-read, intelligent man, who always kept abreast of the happenings which were of world-wide interest. As a child, Mrs. Grant remembers her father reading Greek history and the biographies of noted men in their little pioneer home. For years he was a subscriber to the Toledo Blade and the New York Sun, when these papers were scarcely ever heard of in Utah. In those days indeed few books and papers were obtainable, as pioneer conditions and the long journey across the plains prevented general distribution. The children in the household read these papers with great interest. Particularly was the mind of the growing girl, Augusta, formed along educational lines. She was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE assisted by her wise father in acquiring opinions of national affairs and prominent people which were uncolored by political bias and untouched by heated controversy. Oscar Winters had not the remotest idea of becoming a school teacher; but he was called by the Bishop of Mount Pleasant about 1860 to take charge of the winter school with his wife, Mary Ann Stearns Winters, who had long been a trained school teacher. Mary Ann Stearns Winters, the wife of Oscar and mother of Augusta, was a school teacher from the time she was a little girl. She taught in Winter Quarters and all her younger life in Utah. AUGUSTA'S earliest recollections were concerned with the pleasurable task of assisting the younger children in the class work of those primitive schools. She acted as teacher and assistant teacher from the early age of thirteen years. She was so successful and so beloved a teacher that her pupils and associates carried her reputation all over the State. She was the principal of the school in Pleasant Grove for two years. The next year she attended the University of Utah, and was invited by Dr. Park to take charge of a department in the city schools in his first attempt to grade and organize the city schools. Prior to this time each district and ward managed its own educational affairs, and the tuition paid in by the children was given to the teacher. Again asked to act as principal, she accepted the responsibility of the 17th Ward Academy where she presided over a group of pupils older than herself. This was her last experience in direct school teaching. Augusta taught school altogether about ten years. She has "ex-pupils" all over the State of Utah. AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT 250 A hunger for learning has always characterized her life and is one of her outstanding attributes. She never has had to make herself study, but does it because she loves it. It is her recreation. At the age of eight she spelled down her entire school in an old-fashioned spelling contest. As her mother was a school teacher, she encouraged her children to get all the education they could. The "Winters girls" were among the first to go away from home to school in Provo and Salt Lake City, and older heads in the town were shaken seriously as the townspeople prophesied that "Oscar Winters was going to spoil those girls by spending for their education instead of keeping them home to help him." They would go to school one year and teach the next, saving the greater part of the money earned to help pay for their education. When in New York the winter her daughter Mary was at Columbia University, the mother Augusta registered there for one of the courses. At this time she was nearly sixty. She loves to study French and used to keep up with her daughter while she was taking it and has remembered it always, taking frequent opportunities to speak it since. She learned Japanese quite readily, and the knowledge of the language enabled her to do much good while in Japan. She has always been interested in books and magazines and has kept up on current events. She organized a night school in Pleasant Grove for young people who had been denied educational opportunities and had a very successful class in English. One member of this class was head of the schools in this little town. AUGUSTA was married happily and congenially in 1884 to President Heber J. Grant and found RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE herself in a family of ten鍟he orphaned children of her husband and her sister. While she was privileged to bear but one daughter of her own, she has mothered in her home twelve fine girls; the children of her husband and of two of her sisters. She has seen them all grow to maturity and develop into fine characters, worthy citizens and all happily married. To her one daughter, she is a haven of joy and still waters, where the restless barks of her noisy grandchildren may harbor without storm or delay. All of these, as well as her husband's children and children's children, cast anchor into the soundless depths of her love and peace. She is a firm believer in the principle that we receive our reward for all we do, as we go along, and is sensitive of the fact that she has received more than her just reward in the loyalty and devotion of her family. SHE is never aggressive, nor a seeker in any sense of the word. She has to be chosen. She cares nothing for formal society and its arbitrary rules and restrictions. She has always been beautiful, and has been sought after by all who knew her. Yet she has preserved her modest character without a taint of vanity or self-seeking. Her charm of personality and her refined taste, quiet attire and modest appearance, have given her an air of distinction which she herself has never sought. Early in life she decided that she would "always like to do what she had to do" and "she would never want anything which she could not have." These two decisions have influenced her life deeply. She is never averse to telling her age, and rather enjoys announcing the fact that for four months in the AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT year she is older than her husband, while for the rest of the year they are the same age. She cares nothing for jewelry and has told her husband that instead of buying diamonds and jewels for her she would prefer to have him use the money for charitable purposes. She sometimes says that diamonds, instead of adding youthful charm and attractions, rather accentuate the lack of them. WITH gifts and graces which qualify her for highest public position and responsibility, with a radiant personality and supreme powers of leadership, she has accepted only of such minor offices and duties as will permit her full discharge of those domestic responsibilities which flood the swift flowing river from her husband's burdened public life. She is ready at his instant call for voyage, sudden dinner guest's change of plan or removal. Never flustered, never reluctant, peaceful, hopeful, self-reliant, and with abundant tact, she is the ideal helpmate for her virile, swift-moving, intensely active husband. Yet she has served in many offices in our Church organizations. She was made secretary of the Pleasant Grove M. I. A. by President Emmeline B. Wells, who was always proud of the fact that "she had discovered Augusta Winters Grant." She was made secretary of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society in 1898 when that stake comprised all of Salt Lake Valley and when the venerated M. Isabella Horne was president. She was appointed on the General Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. September 19, 1898, by President Elmina S. Taylor. She assisted in establishing traveling libraries and served on the editorial committee of the Young Woman's Journal. She 251 has also been a member of the Reading Course Committee, the Advanced Senior Course Committee, and on the Committee for Summer Homes for Girls. It was she who selected and suggested the beautiful site of the Girls' Summer Home in Brighton. She has greatly enjoyed all these and other labors on the General Board of which she is still an honored member. She is and has ever been the quietly acknowledged leader of any circle where she moves. No one, least of all herself, ever announces that prominence. Few know the secret of this power; yet all might. It is that she is impersonal in her wishes or purposes. She has used her governing powers in her home and social circle so discretely that only those who observe closely realize what force is moving them. She has the rare reserves of a thoughtful frankness. Her own inner fortress rarely opens, even to her friends. She guards her own and her husband's secrets with strong yet gently fastened locks. It would not be friendship to endeavor to infringe upon her silences. In all her speech there shines her quiet insistence on the virtue of truth. Never does she exaggerate! It is rarely possible to find so strong a personality blended with such simple graciousness, consideration, and uplifting helpfulness. Steadfastly cheerful, quietly hopeful, wisely prayerful, she rules in her own circle because she wins love and obedience. She never asks: "What do I get of this?" It is always: "What can I give to this or that cause or person?" MRS. GRANT has traveled widely. She, with her husband, has met many of the most eminent people of the nation𤧥en and women famous in science, edu252 cation, and governmental renown. She greatly appreciates the privilege of thus widening her own field of observation and experience. She spent two years with her husband in Japan. In all of this traveling, Mrs. Grant finds great delight in nature and the beauty spread before her eyes by Him who made the stars and set bounds to the rivers of water. She is very much interested in art and music, Wagner's operas being her favorite. Her favorite of all forms of entertainment is grand opera. She would now rather read Shakespeare than to see the plays on the stage, for since the days of Booth and Barrett, few are good Shakespearian actors. She cannot endure a whole evening of piano music, and is not partial to victrola music. She has only contempt for jazz music and plays. Only the very best in theatricals appeals to her. Popular vaudeville and film pictures do not interest her. Ancient relics of the past move her only as they relate to the development of character and the purposes of God. Her principal interests are in educational fields and in Church organizations. Her attractions in education are history, literature and the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE languages. She is, to this day, often intrigued with a new French book or a French newspaper. NO more exalted example has been set by the wife of any President of the Church than by this good woman in her constant devotion to temple work for many years. She has and does give liberal funds to the research work for her kindred dead. Following in the pathway marked out by her saintly mother, she not only gives of her substance for this work珦he likewise gives herself. At least once a week, oftentimes more, she enters the Salt Lake Temple, and there she slips in and out of the crowded halls, so retiring, so modest, that newcomers are astonished when they learn that she is the wife of President Heber J. Grant. She accompanies her devoted husband when he is in town and can attend, but she goes many times when he is absent or busy. And her manner of doing what she does is no less an example than the work she does. Quietly, modestly, simply, she moves in her wide circle of friends, loving and beloved by all. Verily, of such are the queens of heaven.
