[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | October | Issue: 5 | Title: LAURA E. PACK, | Author: Unknown]

					LAURA E. PACK,


The death of Mrs. Ellen Salisbury removed
from earth a woman who, through a long life,
filled her sphere with a constancy and devotion to
duty, which were the admiration of all who knew
her and were worthy of emulation. After a ling-
ering but patient illness, she passed away at her
home, Fivepoints, Ogden, on the eleventh of
August, in the eighty-fifth year of her age. She
embraced the Gospel in Preston, Lancashire, Eng-
land, being one of the first converts of President
Heber C. Kimball and emigrated to Utah in
1855. She lived true to the faith to the end, and
even in her last illness gave and sent blessings to
all she knew While in England she composed
the tune to the hymn, “Oh, Say what is Truth?”
Oh! say, what is truth? ’Tis the fairest gem
That the riches of worlds can produce;
And priceless the value of truth will be, when
The proud monarch’s costliest diadem
Is counted but dross and refuse.
Then say what is truth? ’Tis the last and the first,
For the limits of time it steps o’er.
Though the heavens depart, and the earth’s foun-
	tains burst.
Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the
	worst,
Eternal, unchang’d, evermore.
					MARY E. STONE.
					MARY E. PARSONS.
							Daughters.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		MORGAN STAKE.
	The Morgan Stake conference was held
August 17th in the stake house with a
fairly good attendance.
	The General Board was represented by
Sisters P. Y. Beatie and C. S. Thomas of
Salt Lake City. The several branches
were reported as doing the best they can
under the circumstances in which they
are placed. Some are too busy to at-
tend meetings much, but on the whole
there are enough faithful workers to keep
the Relief Society work rolling on in the
Morgan Stake. The Stake Presidency of
the Relief Society make regular visits.
				ANNIE W. CLARK,
							Secretary.
		WASATCH STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Wasatch stake was held June 16, 1905,
in the stake tabernacle, and was well
attended by stake authorities and local
officers.
	Sisters Margaret A. Caine and P. J. M.
Farnsworth, representing the General
Board, were also present.
	Sister Ann Murdock related an instance
that she heard at the first Relief Society

[Column 2]
meeting held in Salt Lake City, that the
Relief Society should spread from north
to south, from east to west; she had lived
to see this fulfilled.
	A lecture was given by Sister Johanna
Jensen on Charity.
	Recitation, “Thy will be done,” Sophia
Lake.
	The visiting sisters gave encouraging
remarks to workers in the Relief Society
cause, also dwelt on need of charity, re-
finement and gentleness among the sis-
ters and girls. Emphasized the necessity
of keeping the lives and memories of the
pioneers fresh in the minds of the sons
and daughters of Zion.
	President Wm. H. Smart desired the
sisters to be loyal to their file leaders and
loyal to all their spiritual and tempo-
ral interests. Paid a glowing tribute to
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, also to the
stake presidency.
	The reports from the various ward of-
ficers given at officers meeting indicated
the work to be progressing in this stake
of Zion.
		SARAH K DUKE, Secretary.
		KANAB STAKE.
	Minutes of the Kanab Stake Relief
Society conference, held at Kanab Sep-
tember 4, 1905. Stake Counselor Eliza-
beth Pugh present and presiding.
	Sang “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Prayer by Counselor E, J. H. Lewis
of the Kanab Relief Society.
	Counselor Elizabeth Pugh made a few
opening remarks; said President Seeg-
miller and Counselor H. E. Hoyt were
absent; also regretted that the visiting
sisters from Salt Lake were unable to
meet with us. A letter from President
Seegmiller, also one from Sister Emme-
line B. Wells were read.
	Sister Pugh reported that President
Seegmiller and Counselor H. E. Hoyt
had visited the stake three months ago,
filled up all vacancies, and that now each
society was in good order.
	The different wards of the stake were
represented and reported by an officer of
each Relief Society as in fairly good work-
ing order, teachers alive to their duties
as a rule, meetings held regularly, and
those in attendance feeling well.
	Instructions given at the conference
were: referring to the duties of the mem-
bers of the Relief Society, our duties to
each other, care for the sick, looking
after the poor and needy, have a watch-
care over the children, our neighbor’s as
well as our own, sustain those in author-
ity over us, and live so that we may have
a claim upon the blessings of the Lord.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Sang “Praise to the man.” etc.
	Benediction by Sister J. W. Seaman.
			PERSIS A. SPENCER, Sec.
		NEBO STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of Nebo
Stake Relief Society convened in the
Spanish Fork 1st ward meeting house
October 9, 1905, at 10.30 o’clock, Pres.
Lilyus C. Page presiding.
	Mrs. Estella Davis rendered a song-
	Pres. Mary A. Hallam, of Spanish Fork
2nd ward briefly welcomed all present at
our conference; prayed for the spirit of
the Lord to be with us.
	The Leland ward was reported by
Prest. Markham with doing the best they
can under the circumstances—have forty
bushels of wheat on hand.


[Column 1]
	Sister Sarah Swenson reported the
society of the 4th ward of Spanish Fork;
they own meeting house and granary,
have between 400 and 500 bushels of
wheat on hand.
	The Salem ward society was reported
by Pres. Mary Ann Pierce: Own meeting
house and granary, have nearly 500 bush-
els of wheat, The teachers are doing a
good work; some have visited every
month.
	Sister Harker, one of the missionaries
from Salt Lake City, felt very pleased to
hear and partake of the good spirit of our
meeting; said we came here not to do
our own will, but the will of the Father.
We should make home the most beloved
place on earth. Spoke of the teachers as
being the backbone of the society. En-
couraged the secretaries to be prompt in
copying their minutes and in sending in
their reports. Her remarks were full of
encouragement and blessing for the sis-
ters.
	Recitation by Sister Rhoda Robinson.
	President Holt invited all to stay and
have lunch.
	Adjourned, after singing and prayer,
until 1:30, o'clock.
	Afternoon meeting recovened. After
the opening exercises, a hymn was sung
by Sister Ann Lewis.
	Stake Counselor Henry Gardner said
he did not know of an organization of so
much importance in the Church as the
Relief Society. The sisters had been
pioneers and home builders. Had some
business to present in behalf of Sister Page,
who was desirous of being released from
the presidency of the Nebo Stake Relief
Society. Proposed that the sisters give
her an honorable release and thanks for
her labors in the past, which motion was
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Eliza J. Dixon was chosen and
unanimously sustained to fill her place as
President of the Relief Society of the
Nebo Stake.
	Sister Page felt very thankful for the
way in which the sisters had sustained
her; felt that they had prayed for her
as well as sustained her.
	Sister Dixon felt that the sisters had
made a mistake in saying that she would
make a better president that Sister Page.
Felt thankful for the support the sisters
had given the presidency in the past,
and prayed they would support her in the
future.
	A song was sung by Sister Anne Rowe.
	Sister Harker was thankful for the
spirit of unity that had been made mani-
fest; spoke of the woman's building; said
we will have one in connection with the
memorial building. Referred to holding
ward conferences, also explained how to
keep up a contingent fund.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp was the next
speaker, who said, we have all been sit-
ting so long, asked all to arise and rest a
while, went through some exercises; felt
glad to look into the faces of the brothers
and sisters. Had been a member of the
Relief Society many years before realiz-
izing the importance of the work and
what it meant when Joseph Smith organ-
ized the Relief Society. We should be
grateful for the privileges and blessings
we enjoy. The greatest honor we can
have is to be a true wife and noble moth-
er; thought we should have charity one
for another. Do not give way to our tem-
pers. Be careful not to wound the feel-

[Column 2]
ings of our little children. Let us learn
to love one another, and be united one
with another; attend to family prayers
morning and evening; spoke of the nurse
class to be taught this year; prayed the
Lord to bless each one of us.
	Sister Page felt that we had had a good
time today, and pleased with the way we
had been entertained-
	Conference was adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Patriarch Wil-
kins.
		MARY F. BROWN, Sec.
