[Vol54 | December 1967 | Page 886 | Special Feature | The Wonderful Work of Women N. | Eldon Tanner]

The Wonderful Work of Women

President N. Eldon Tanner
Of the First Presidency

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Address Delivered at the
General Session of the
Relief Society Annual
General Conference,
September 27, 1967

■ Sister Spafford, Priesthood representatives, officers and members of this great Relief Society organization: As I stand before this group of approximately ten thousand of the very choicest women in the world, who are representing all the women throughout the Church, I do so in all humility and with a keen feeling of the heavy responsibility of this assignment.

I have enjoyed greatly being with you in this very inspiring session of your conference, and was touched by the humble and all-embracing opening prayer, by the beautiful singing of this lovely chorus, the inspiring talks of your President, her Counselors, and others. I do hope that you have found and will find this conference to be most profitable, and that the officers of this great organization will feel repaid for the preparation and effort that they have put forth for this most successful conference.

I feel sure that you who have traveled many miles and left your families, will return feeling that you have been spiritually fed and instructed in your duties, inspired to be better mothers, better members of the Church, and better members of this great organization.

I was pleased and thrilled indeed to see and hear the Singing Mothers from Canada who have sung so beautifully here today. They are honored to be representing Canada in its centennial year and in this famous Tabernacle in its centennial year.

The first general conference of the Church was held in this Tabernacle in October of 1867, a hundred years ago, and all the

886

The Wonderful Work of Women

prophets and all the General Authorities since then have spoken in this famous building, where our most popular Tabernacle Choir has sung for so many years to all the world.

Most of these women have come from cities and towns in which I have lived, from schools where I have taught many of them or their parents, from the branch, ward, or stake over which I have presided, and from the Province where I lived and represented them as a member of the Government. I am happy, too, that two of my daughters participated with these Singing Mothers. You see, therefore, that I feel very close to these sisters. I know somewhat of the miles they have traveled and the hours and days they have spent practicing, and the sacrifices that their families have made. I am sure I have enjoyed it and feel that they have gained much and feel good in the service they have rendered. I wish to congratulate them and wish them well. I do hope that they and their families whom they have left have not sacrificed too much and hope and pray and feel that they are all better for it.

I wish to congratulate Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen and express my personal appreciation to her for her great devotion, and for the tremendous contribution that she has made and is making all over the Church. I was in England and had the privilege of seeing the miracle she performed there in bringing women from all over the British Isles, as she did in Alberta, and made a chorus of Singing Mothers who gave concerts in some of

the finest halls in the great cities of England to audiences who were most enthusiastic in their praise.

It is a privilege and pleasure to bring you the greetings and blessings and a brief message from President David O. McKay, a prophet of God who is the mouthpiece of the Lord here upon the earth, under whose divine guidance he is directing this, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I know of no one who is more keenly interested in the welfare of the women of the Church in the heavy responsibilities which are placed upon them as wives and mothers, as officers and teachers, and as humble servants of the Lord.

I was thrilled with the way you sang "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," with the feeling of thankfulness and devotion which you expressed. As I listened to the first verse of this great song, which I should like to repeat to you, I wondered if you realized just what you were singing.

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet,
To guide us in these latter days;
We thank Thee for sending the Gospel
To lighten our minds with its rays;
We thank Thee for every blessing
Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand;
We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee,
And love to obey Thy command.

The message which our prophet has asked me to bring to you and to the Church as a whole, is one that I have had the honor of taking wherever I have gone. Many of you have heard me deliver it before. He has asked me to remind those people to remember who they are, and to act accordingly. Also, he has asked

887
