[Vol54 | December 1967 | Page 934 | Fiction | Janet | W. Breeze]
933 Throw Down the Gauntlet Chapter 4 Janet W. Breeze Synopsis: Nancy Jackson, a ballet dance instructor and mother of two children, gives up her plans for opening a dance studio in her remodeled home, and accompanies her husband on a teaching assignment to the island of Truk. Upon arriving in Truk, the family finds that a quonset house is to be their home. Nancy is told by a native doctor that she will have to go to the hospital in Guam for the arrival of twin babies. M It was the first Sunday in October, but as Nancy sat on the edge of the bed, brushing Amy's hair and watching Skipper push the dining chairs into a train, it seemed more like a continuation of a very long, hot summer. "Sleep any better last night?" Grant asked. "A little until it rained. Then I dreamed I was taking a shower and couldn't turn the faucets off. I was pretty wet before I awakened enough to close the shut- 934 ters. Didn't you feel it?" "Oh, yes—but it's happened so often now I just squirm farther down into the sheets." "T still hate to see the beds in the living room" Grant sat down beside her. "I don't know what else we can do, though, Nancy. We couldn't sleep with that wind blowing over us all night through those open louvers. We'll just have to adapt. Ourselves to it. Maybe while you're in Guam I can talk them into remodeling the end bedroom and putting on shutters like this." "There you go again. Guam. Grant, I am not leaving you and Skipper and Amy to go to Guam!" "Nancy...." "Saipan, maybe—but Guam." "Honey, it's been three weeks I not since I wrote the Mortensens to see if you could stay with them and have the babies there. Surely, if the answer was yes, we would have heard by now." She tied a bright red bow on Amy's ponytail and then kissed her on the back of the neck. "Now, you're all pretty for Sunday School." "But who's going to see me?" Amy asked. "Heavenly Father. And_ it makes him so happy to see Amy looking her best." "I wish we had friends at Sunday School." "We will, darling—someday. Right now, let's just be thankful we have a Daddy with the Priesthood—so we can have a Sunday School!" — "But I've failed my family," Grant said softly. "No, you haven't," Nancy said. "Why should you say a thing like that?" "T gave you so many promises, Nancy, to get you to come out here. And I haven't kept the promises." "But it's not your fault, and you do enjoy your work here. I can tell. I can see it on your face when you come home at night— and when you bounce out of bed so fast in the morning. In spite of other disappointments, I really feel we did the right thing." "Honey, if I had known we'd be living like this, I never would have even considered asking you to give up our home." "So maybe I lke looking at chipped paint on the floors. It's really quite interesting, you know. Or haven't you looked at it closely?" She leaned over, touched the Throw Down the Gauntlet back of his head playfully, and pushed him toward the floor. "See there? In its day, this -floor has been dark gray, light gray, rusty red, and green. Just think of the history beneath our feet!" She raised his head, and for the first time since she had known him, there were tears in his eyes. Then he reached over and held her tightly so she couldn't look at him. "Oh, Nancy," he said, "I'm sorry. And I'm so worried about you. I say you have to go to Guam—but I don't want you to go. I want to be with you when you have the babies. Just like always." She kissed him tenderly on the forehead. "You will be, Grant." "How can you say that, Nancy? How can you even think it? There is no possible way for me to leave Truk until the end of the school year." "Have faith, Grant. It's going to be all right. Everything is going to work out—I just know it will." "But the time is getting so short, Nancy. Dr. Rogopas said you couldn't possibly stay here longer than November first. He's sure you're going to be a New Year's mother." "Let's make it December thirty-first," she said, trying to lighten his spirits. "I'welve-hundred-dollar tax deduction on twins, you know!" Amy climbed down off her chair. "Let's have music on our train," she said, and walked toward the little transistor that was perched atop the short bookcase room divider. "Let's not," Grant said. "Not 

935 December 1967

 on Sunday. Please." Then he turned to Nancy. "Seeing how the people live here was nothing compared to the cultural shock I got from not being able to hear anything over the radio but the Beach Boys twelve hours a day, seven days a week." "Mother wrote and asked if we had just the one station," Nancy said. "I told her, 'Of course not! Only neither one of us speaks Japanese!' " "And when I do pick up Tokyo," Grant said, "all I can get is American rock-and-roll interspersed with Japanese commercials." At this point, Skipper had pushed his chair over to stand by the bookcase. "T like Beetles!" he said, and flipped the knob. As Grant jumped to turn it off, he was stopped abruptly by a familiar, deep voice. "May peace be with you—this day, and always." Now the tears filled Nancy's eyes. "Not clear out here," she said. "It's not possible. How could they carry a choir broadcast?" "It must have been a Voice of America tape." "And we missed it!" "We'll try again next week," Grant said. "Let's have our fast meeting." Nancy and _ the children straightened the chairs, while Grant went into the kitchen to prepare the sacrament. "Having meetings at home seems natural" Nancy said. "Like another Family Home Evening." They seated themselves in a circle, and then Grant smiled 936 happily at the children. "Well, I'd certainly like to welcome you to our Sunday School and Fast Meeting," he said. "We'll open our meeting by having Mother lead us in the first verse of 'Love at Home,' after which we will ask Amy to give our opening prayer." Nancy stood in front of them. "Pitch it," she whispered. And Grant began singing in his full baritone, 'There is beauty all around...." At the close of Amy's prayer, Grant said: "Now, children, last week Mother gave you the flannel-board lesson from the one Instructor we slipped into our suitcase just before we left. And we told you that this week we would probably have your manual and visual aids. But since they still haven't come, we're going to let you give us the flannelboard lesson and see how much you can remember from last week." "Oh, goody," said Amy. "Me too," said Skipper. The children enthusiastically took turns at arranging the paper cutouts on top of the end table, while giving their own versions of the story. "That's very fine," Grant said, as they finished their discussion. "Now we'll have Mother give us our two-and-a-half minute talk, after which we will sing our sacrament song and Skipper will lead us in the sacrament gem." Nancy watched intently as her two little ones folded their arms after taking the sacrament. She thought of how she had never seen them so reverent and still. That was until Grant finished bearing his testimony. Then Amy waved her arm in the air and started pleading. "Me first, Daddy, please! I want to!" "You don't need permission to bear your testimony," Grant said. "When no one else is speaking, just stand and say what is in your heart." Amy stood on her feet and nervously looked from face to face. Then she ground her toe into the floor and began to speak. "Tm thankful for my Mother and Daddy," she said. "And that we could come to Truk and see the pretty ocean. And that we have this beautiful house to live m...." As she said the words "beautiful house," Nancy looked about her at the faded print cushions on the scarred and weathered bamboo furniture, and the first line of the opening song they had sung trickled back through her mind. When Amy had finished, Nancy rose slowly to her own feet, her eyes once again moist. "T, too, am thankful for this beautiful house in which we Throw Down the Gauntlet live," she said. "Not only is it a nicer home than those around us have, but it is made even more beautiful by the special people who live in it. And I'm very grateful that our Heavenly Father saw fit for us to come to Truk where we could have a home Sunday School, so that Amy could feel free to stand on her feet and bear her testimony for the first time. Perhaps this will be a rich field in which we all may grow." As Nancy closed her testimony, the quiet spirit of their meeting was interrupted by a knock on the door. "Who could that be?" she said. "Susan went off-island for the week end, and so did _ the Roberts." Grant opened the door and greeted a stooped and ancientlooking Trukese man holding a yellow piece of paper. "For you," he said. "District Administrator get radio dispatch." Grant thanked the man and closed the door. Then his hands began trembling as he read the unexpected message. "IT can't believe it," he said. "It's from the District Administrator for Education on Saipan. — He says the Mortensens gave him our letter. You can have the babies at Dr. Torres' Hospital on Saipan. And an unmarried teacher at the high school there has agreed to trade places with me here. They want us to leave on tomorrow's flight." He looked up and shouted, "Nancy—we're all going together!" "I knew it," she said. "I just knew it." (To be continued) 937 5 & yt G Lesson SPIRITUAL LIVING— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 86—The Restoration of the Keys of -the Priesthood Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 110) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman rejoices in the restoration of the keys of the Priesthood and resolves to accomplish the duties imposed INTRODUCTION Without the Priesthood there would not be The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Although the Priesthood was restored by John the Baptist, and Peter, James, and John, it was necessary that the keys of the Priesthood be restored to direct the use of the Priesthood for salvation purposes. With the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, on March 27, 1836, a structure known as the House of the Lord was available that Priesthood keys might be given to man again. When one considers that the inhabitants of the earth were without divine authority for many centuries and, thus, they were without the 938 upon her by the restoration of the keys. Knowledge of God, the importance of restoring the Priesthood may be appreciated. (D&C 84:20.) Without the knowledge of God— that is not only the knowledge of the true God, but also the means by which a faithful man may reach his eternal destiny—the purpose of man's earth-life would be thwarted. Class Discussion How do the keys of the Priesthood affect your personal salvation? KEYS OF THE PRIESTHOOD RESTORED On Sunday, April 3, 1836, one week after the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, four personages appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. These _ resur- rected beings were: Jesus Christ, Moses, Elias, and Elijah. One other account appears in sacred history when beings from the other side of the veil appeared for a similar purpose. During his mortal ministry, the Savior took his apostles, Peter, James, and John with him on the Mount where there appeared Moses and Elias. (Matt. 17:1-8.) For what purpose did the Savior, Moses, and Elijah meet with these apostles? President Joseph Fielding Smith provides us with this answer:.. When Moses and Elijah came to the Savior and to Peter, James, and John upon the Mount, what was their coming for? Was it just some spiritual manifestation to strengthen these three apostles? Or did they come merely to give comfort unto the Son of God in his ministry and to prepare him for his crucifixion? No! That was not the purpose. I will read it to you. The Prophet Joseph Smith has explained it as follows: "The Priesthood is everlasting. The Savior, Moses, and Elias, gave the keys to Peter, James and John, on the mount, when they were transfigured before him. The Priesthood is everlasting—without beginning of days or end of years; without father, mother, etc. If there is no change of ordinances, there is no change of Priesthood. Wherever the ordinances of the Gospel are administered, there is the Priesthood.... Christ is the Great High Priest; Adam next." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, page 158.).. The Lord preserved him [Moses], so that he could come at the proper time and restore his keys, on the heads of Peter, James, and John, who stood at the head of the dispensation of the meridian of time. He reserved Elijah from death that he might also come and bestow his keys upon the heads of Peter, James, and John and prepare them for their ministry. (Doctrines of Salvation Il:110- 111, Bruce R. McConkie, Compiler, 1955 edition, Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City.) Lesson Department KIRTLAND TEMPLE FAME It was prophesied that the fame of the Kirtland Temple would spread to foreign lands and that the blessings available through that temple would be poured out upon the heads of the members of the Church (D&C 110:10.) Although this temple was repudiated by the Lord when it fell into unworthy hands, following the exodus of the saints from Kirtland, Ohio, the events of April 3, 1836, will continue to bless the lives of both member and nonmember throughout the generations. (Ibid., 124:28; 110:9.) The Savior as head of his Church upon the earth came to the Kirtland Temple to accept it as his house. (D&C 110:7.) The Church is the kingdom of God upon the earth. ([bid., 124:27-28.) JESUS CHRIST LIVES In a world gone astray from the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, Latter-day Saints stand as testators to the truths restored in that gospel. Paramount above all other truths are the facts that God lives and his Only Begotten Son is the Redeemer of men. Joseph Smith and _ Oliver Cowdery saw the _ resurrected Jesus Christ in a glorified vision in the Kirtland Temple similar to the vision received by John the Revelator. (Rev. 1:12-18.) The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the 

939 December 1967

 brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah.... (D&C 110:1-3.) Class Discussion The Latter-day Saint who has a testimony that Jesus Christ lives should live in accordance with the principles of the gospel. JESUS OUR ADVOCATE Following the description of the Savior in the Kirtland Temple, the Lord declared that it was he who was slain for mankind, for he is "your advocate with the Father." (D&C 110:4.) Man alone is neither capable nor does he have the power to save himself from sin. It is the Lord Jesus Christ who pleads the cause of repentant man before the Father. As man's Advocate, he is the spokesman, or intercessor, to bring about salvation from sin. On another occasion, the Savior instructed his Church to listen to him as the Advocate with the Father: Saying: Father, behold the sufferings and death of him who did no sin, in whom thou wast well pleased; behold the blood of thy Son which was shed, the blood of him whom thou gavest that thyself might be glorified; Wherefore, Father, spare these my brethren that believe on my name, that they may come unto me and have everlasting life. (Ibid., 45:4-5.) By reason of the redeeming sacrifice of Christ, he provides rescue from the effects of sin. Knowing that imperfect man sins, he stands with outstretched arms to all who seek for his pardoning grace. ([bid., 38:4; 62:1.) Every member of the Church should be profoundly grateful for the privilege to receive forgiveness of sins through repent- 940 ance. By entering into spiritual life through baptism, the symbol of the atonement of Christ, the member of Christ's Church need not receive additional baptisms for sins committed. (Repentance is the principle of forgiveness for those in spiritual life.) Every person in the Church needs his Advocate with the Father that he may eventually be clean to be qualified to enter God's presence. MOSES AND HIS KEYS The second personage to appear to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery was Moses, the ancient lawgiver and leader of captive Israel from Egyptian bondage. In these words his appearance and purpose are given: After this vision closed, the heavens were again opened unto us; and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north. (D&C 110:11.) Inasmuch as the ten lost tribes are unknown to us today, we should consider that the use of the conjunction "and" in this verse separates them from the other branches of Israel who are known today; therefore, we should accept the fact that they will return from the land of the north as prophesied, when they are commanded. Among the other branches of Israel are: (1) the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh who join the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, including the Lamanites (2 Nephi 30:4-6); and (2) the Jewish people who are returning to the Holy Land. Five years before the keys of the Priesthood were restored in the Kirtland Temple, the Lord promised his people that when they got to the Ohio Valley they would be endowed with power to go forth among the nations to do his work. He also promised them that he would lead them whithersoever he would, for Israel would be saved. (Ibid., 38:31-33.) SALVATION THROUGH GATHERING There are two concepts of gathering as found in the scriptures. The first is for a people to be gathered out of the world into the kingdom of God. (Rev. 18; D&C 133:4-7, 14.) The second is for those who have accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ to gather into designated places as commanded by the Prophet. (Jbid., 29:7-9.) Later, the Saints were told to gather to holy places called stakes of Zion. (Ibid., 101: 20-22.) We are living today in the period prophesied by Nephi when members of the true Church would be scattered among the nations and armed with righteousness and power. (1 Nephi 14:14.) PURPOSES OF GATHERING ~ To be gathered into the Church provides the way of salvation. The scriptures and the modern prophets teach several major purposes for the gathering of the saints to designated places. These are: (1) to be instructed in the principles of righteousness and to be obedient to those instructions; (2) to build temples and perform temple ordinances; and (3) to escape the destruction of wars and other calamities. TO BECOME INSTRUCTED Anciently, two prophets foretold the time when Israel, in the Lesson Department last days, would gather together to learn of God's ways and to walk in his paths. (Micah 4:1-2; Isaiah 2:203.) This fundamental purpose has been taught throughout the dispensation in which we live. President John Taylor once said: We stand, then, really in an important position before God and before the world. God has called us from the world. He has told us that we are not of the world.... And you have gathered to Zion that you might be taught and instructed in the laws of life and listen to the words which emanate from God, become one people and one nation, partake of one spirit, and prepare yourselves, your progenitors and posterity for an everlasting inheritance in the celestial kingdom of God. (Journal of Discourses, John Taylor, 14:188-189.) Class Discussion Am I taking advantage of this opportunity by attending appointed Church meetings to be instructed in gospel principles and then to become one with the Lord through obedience to those principles?; TEMPLES AND GATHERING Temples are commanded to be built that the Lord may reveal to his people principles of exaltation. In these holy edifices the worthy members of the Church are instructed in the ways of God, and they learn to walk in his paths. It was the Prophet Joseph Smith who declared that the main object for the gathering of a people together in any age of the world was to build a temple to the Lord where they might be taught the way of salvation. (DHC V: 423-424.) Other modern prophets have confirmed this same fact. (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 11:161-162; George A. Smith, [bid., 2:214; John Taylor, Ibid., 26:70.) 

941 December 1967

 Class Discussion Why do you believe that the main object of the gathering of a people is to build temples where they may learn the way of salvation? ELIAS AND HIS KEYS It is recorded that following the visitation of Moses in the Kirtland Temple, the following occurred: After this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all generations after us should be blessed. (D&C 110:12.) In the dispensation of the fulness of times the keys of all dispensations with their powers, authorities, rights, privileges, and covenants were to be restored. (Acts 3:19-21; Eph. 1:9-10.) Consequently, ancient prophets came to the Prophet Joseph Smith and conferred the keys of their dispensations. (D&C 128:21.) Elias, who held the keys of the Abrahamic Dispensation, conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery everything that pertained to that dispensation, including the blessings and covenants that were pronounced upon Abraham's head. (Bruce R. Mc- ' Conkie, Compiler: Doctrines of Salvation III: 127, 1956 edition, Bookcraft, Salt Lake City.) What characterized the dispensation of Abraham, or as it is called in the revelation, the gospel of Abraham? (D&C 110:12.) From the Old Testament and the Pearl of Great Price, we learn of these two promises made to Abraham (Genesis 17:1-9; Abraham 2:6-12): (1) his posterity was to be numerous; (2) through his seed the nations of the earth would be blessed by bearing the 942 Priesthood and as custodians of the gospel of Jesus Christ. With the restoration of the keys brought back to the earth by Elias, Latter-day Saints who seek the highest blessings of the gospel in the temple may receive the same promises made to Abraham. Marriage for eternity provides for the faithful the privilege to have a continuation of the seeds forever; that is the power to beget spirit offspring following the resurrection. This blessing is made possible by the covenant which the Lord made with Abraham and his seed. (D&C 132: 29-32.) When one considers that exaltation is the purpose for which God made man, and that these keys have been restored through Elias, every Latter-day Saint should be grateful that this power is again on the earth. (Moses 1:39.) ELUAH AND HIS KEYS The last personage to appear in the Kirtland Temple, on April 3, 1836, was Elijah the prophet who lived in the days of King Ahab of Israel. (I Kings 17; II Kings 2.) He was translated in a chariot of fire, but modern revelation states that he was resurrected at the time of Christ's resurrection. (D&C 133:55.) The importance of his mission in the last days was prophesied by Malachi, who declared that, before the second coming of Christ, Elijah would "turn the - heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers" (Malachi 4:4-6.) The Angel Moroni told the Prophet Joseph Smith that Elijah would restore the Priesthood, and he would plant in the hearts of the children the promises that were made with their fathers. (D&C Section 2.) If Elijah restored Priesthood keys in our day, what specifically did he restore in view of the fact that before 1836 the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods were restored. (D&C 27:7-8, 12-13.) The Prophet Joseph Smith gave the answer when he said that Elijah held the key of the fulness of the Melchizedek Priesthood that all ordinances of the gospel might be administered in righteousness. (DHC VI:251; 4:211.) These powers are called the sealing powers of the Priesthood whereby all ordinances of the gospel become valid by that power (Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way to Perfection, p. 161, 1958 edition, Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City, Utah.) ELIJAH'S POWERS AND SALVATION FOR THE DEAD From the discussion above, it is evident that the keys restored by Elijah included more authority than the work of salvation for the dead. It is true, however, that the sealing powers of the Priesthood are necessary to make valid all ordinances whether for the dead or the living, but these powers also make possible a welding link between fathers and children. Fathers in the spirit world have the opportunity to hear the gospel, accept it, and then receive by proxy the ordinances of salvation in the temples. (D&C 128:18.) IMPLEMENTATION In view of the glorious events that occurred in the Kirtland (Ohio) Temple on April 3, 1836, Lesson Department every Latter-day Saint may have the opportunity to work out his salvation in this life and in the life to come. The appearance of the resurrected Savior to the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery upon that occasion attests that Jesus Christ is the resurrected Savior. The member of the Church does not have to rely only upon evidence from ancient books, but there is modern scripture to affirm his faith. Not only is this information available to him, but he may know of this truth by the power of the Holy Ghost. Furthermore, the Latterday Saint is grateful that the Lord has committed to man upon the earth certain Priesthood keys which make it possible for him to receive salvation. He may participate in missionary work and assist in the instruction of his fellow man in the way of salvation as a part of the gathering process going on in the world. Also, he may receive the promise of eternal increase in the House of the Lord whereby his exaltation. In the celestial kingdom is possible. For this intent the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored in the last days. Finally, through the sealing powers of the Priesthood returned to the earth by Elijah, the member of the Church may receive the opportunity to perform a necessary work for his kindred dead. He may also rest assured that the ordinances of the gospel in his behalf are efficacious thoughout eternity, provided that his life is lived in accordance with the terms of the covenants he has made with the Lord in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 943 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE—Truths To Live By Message 6—Love, Intelligence, and Compassionate Service Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: Love and intelligence result in compassionate service to others. When God speaks of himself, he says his glory is intelligence. He also has told us his kingdom is based on love. May we assume, then, that intelligence and love must walk together? One without the other lacks head or heart. Jesus' dictum, "And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise" (Luke 6:31) implies that as we are thoughtful about our own needs, so we should put as much thought into the needs of those we love and serve. A fine Latter-day Saint psychologist says, '""The person who thinks about others will end up helping them." When trying to help another, we should try in our imagination to understand her life and have empathy. She is different from us. Her likes and dislikes may not be similar to ours. She may value things that we do not. Her way of doing things may appear strange to us. Yet she needs love, tenderness, affirmation, and recognition, just as we. If we study and think about how best to help, we may, in time, learn to do and say only those things that will truly benefit her, rather than of- 944 fend and alienate her. Our concern should be, do we meet her needs? Not, does she meet ours? Jesus set the great example when he said, "the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister." (Matt. 20:28.) How does one, then, minister with intelligent care? There are many things one can do. Use wisdom in choosing the time to visit. Plan what may be the most comforting or helpful words to say. During bereavement, when taking food to the family, use judgment so there is not a surfeit of food on any one day. Pray for skill so that offered help does not wound, embarrass, belittle, or weaken. At times of illness, try to learn specific food needs and tastes of the patient. Remember the sick mother needs care not only through the acute illness, but also throughout convalescence. Invalids needs care, and are often forgotten. Some become difficult, even unpleasantly demanding and are avoided. What is our obligation in such situations? Needs are many and not always of a spectacular or demand- ing nature. One busy mother who did not knit had a daughter who wanted to learn. The home teacher heard about this. The next day his wife offered her services as a knitting teacher. Training others is a fine aspect of compassionate service. We can serve in both large and small ways. As women rendering compassionate service, we should Lesson Department learn all that we can about human nature, being responsive to the promptings of the Holy Ghost. Let us serve with a maximum of love, tolerance, kindness, and a minimum of judging. We should pray with Solomon, "Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart." (I Kings 3:9.) Then our intelligent love will result in truly compassionate service. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 6—The Dining Area—The Threshold of Hospitality, Family © Communication, and Courtesy Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: To encourage mothers to create a happy atmosphere for family observance INTRODUCTION In the dining area, as in the other rooms of the house, the same rules of order and good taste apply. The same importance is attached to the application of color, the choice and arrangement of furnishings, and the use of accessories. However, the emphasis is not quite the same. The dining area is the place where the family gather in close and intimate communion with each other, presumably—and hopefully—three times daily. In many homes it is the dining area in which the family kneel in prayer together. How important it is, then, that this be a place of such pleasant, wholesome, and inviting atmosphere that its influence upon the family bears fruit. Of good manners and courtesy. The emphasis, therefore, in this discussion will be on the relationship of these principles in producing an atmosphere designed to extend hospitality, develop communication and promote habits of good manners and courtesy among family members. TO CREATE A HAPPY ATMOSPHERE Any dining area—whether it be a separate eating area, a section or nook of the kitchen, or a designated part of the living room— should be planned so as to make it the pleasant, happy place which it was meant to be: a place which radiates the spirit of warmth and inviting hospitality. However, the physical setting alone, no matter 

945 December 1967

 how attractive it may be, cannot guarantee a happy atmosphere. The mother establishes the tone which prevails and which is reflected in the attitudes and actions of the other members of the family. She radiates happiness by cultivating the habit of cheerfulness. She greets them with a smile and with words of encouragement and appreciation. She is clean and neat in her appearance. She has made careful preparation to see that the food she serves is pleasing to the eye as well as appetizing to the taste. She knows the importance of having the table as attractive as possible, but she also knows that the attitude and atmosphere which she establishes will determine the behavior of her family. To Discuss Does my dining area have an atmosphere conducive to family enjoyment? If the answer is in the negative, what is your responsibility? LET'S TALK IT OVER When the dining areas are put to their best use, they can provide times which serve not only for the relaxation and pleasure of the family members but also for the communication of ideas between family members themselves or be- - tween family and friends. Only items of mutual interest should be discussed so that no one may feel excluded, and arguments and personal gossip should be avoided. Family problems and troubles should not be a part of the mealtime conversation but they should be discussed elsewhere at an appropriate time and place. Every member should be made to feel that his contribution of ideas or his relating of experiences is just as important as that of 946 any other member, and that his friends—at proper intervals—are equally as welcome at the table. The Prophet Joseph in his history under the date of January 4, 1844, gives us this little glimpse into his own family life in this regard: I took dinner in the north room, and was remarking to Brother Phelps what a kind, provident wife I had,—that when I wanted a little bread and milk, she would load the table with... Many good things.. At this moment Emma came in, while Phelps, in continuation of the conversation, said, ""You must do as Bonaparte did—have a little table, just large enough for the victuals you want yourself." Mrs. Smith replied, "Mr. Smith is a bigger man than Bonaparte: he can never eat without his friends." I remarked, "That is the wisest thing I ever heard you say." (DHC VI: pp. 165-166.) TEACHING TABLE MANNERS AND COURTESY It is an undisputed fact that environment is conducive to behavior. If we cultivate an attitude of love and thanksgiving to our Heavenly Father for his many blessings and of understanding and courtesy toward each other, the atmosphere becomes charged with these attributes and they reflect themselves in the conduct of the members of our families. Instinctively, children behave according to the environment in which they find themselves. If children come toa clean attractive table, they will want to look their best. When they are greeted with love and happy smiles, they will respond in the same manner. If the parents establish and maintain a happy relationship by being courteous and kind to each other, the children will follow their example. To Discuss The Church is judged by the people it represents, missionaries, students, etc. Early in life children should be taught by precept and example, good manners, courtesy, and all facets of gracious living to prepare them to practice acceptable social behavior. We take pride in using our best linens, silver, and dishes and in displaying our treasured family heirlooms when we know that they will be appreciated and treated with respect. If we surround our children with beauty and show them the virtues of courtesy and refinement, they will respond by developing these qualities within themselves. Questions 1. How can family members express appreciation and show courtesy to the mother and to other family members (e. G., holding a chair for mother and _ sisters, expressing thanks for a delicious meal)? Lesson Department 2. What is the obligation of each individual to create a happy atmosphere at the table? CONCLUSION Make your dining room areas as suitable and as beautiful as you can. Use attractive table appointments; exhibit your best manners before and to your children. Teach them by your example what courtesy and good manners are and practice them together so that they become an habitual part of their lives. This is reward enough for the effort it takes to make our dining area the threshold of hospitality, family communication, and courtesy. SOCIAL RELATIONS—A Light Unto the World Lesson 6—Of Thoughts and of Words Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Northern Hemisphere: Objective: INTRODUCTION For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. (Proverbs 23:7.) Speech is a mirror of the soul; as a man speaks, so is he. (An old maxim.) This lesson is based upon the ideas contained in the foregoing quotations. It discusses words as (1) they interpret our thoughts and attitudes to others, and (2) as they relate to our inner selves, creating our attitudes and motivating our actions. Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Third Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 The Latter-day Saint woman realizes that "For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he'' (Prov. 23:7.) OUR WORLD OF WORDS We live in a world of words, all kinds of words: words that are easily pronounced, or more difficult to pronounce, long words, short words, musical-sounding, harshsounding, and_ gentle-sounding words. There are passive words, strong-action words, old, old words, new words borrowed currently from other languages, and words newly coined to express today's discovery and expanding 

947 December 1967

 technology, and words which have wandered through a number of languages before coming into. Our own. Whether written or spoken, words are tools for thinking as well as for communication. They can be one of our greatest assets, and, conversely, they can be a hindrance, even one of our greatest enemies. Question Do you believe that we think with words? If you do not, suggest one idea about which you can think, without the use of words. THE WRITTEN WORD Since the beginning of recorded time, the written word or symbol of word, has been of great importance. So important, in fact, that it has been spoken of as "the steward of the ages," "the carrier of light," the "historian of time." But gos are things, and a small drop of InK, Falling like dew upon a thought, produces That which makes thousands, perhaps millions, think. (Don Juan, Lord Byron, Canto III, Stanza 88.) Class Involvement Discuss briefly, as illustrative of the foregoing statement: 1. God's dealings with man (as word preserved in scripture). 2. Information relative to nations and their cultures (as word-recorded secular history). 3. Written words as a channel of communication in today's world. OUR DEPENDENCE UPON WORDS Words assume more importance when we consider our dependence upon them. We define our joys, our sorrows, our problems, their solutions, our expectations, and our failures with 948 words. The radio, telephone, television, personal wills, letters, etc., even our tax and doctor bills may involve words, as well as figures. It is thus evident that the number and variety of words from which to choose, are almost limitless. It is also evident that if words are tools for expressing what we want them to express, we need to select and use those which most accurately say what we want them to say. The use of the appropriate word is especially important in human relationships, although such accuracy may be difficult to achieve since, often, we speak under pressure or excitement, or without analyzing our attitude and intent. Our words reach out beyond us, making friends, but, unfortunately, they also may make enemies. They may cause relationships already established to deteriorate, or they may be ambassadors of good will, making relationships more rewarding. Class Involvement For brief consideration use the following illustrations: Woman #1: I am sorry I said that I would not take that assignment in my civic organization job. What I meant was that I prefer another assignment more in keeping with my particular interest and ability. Woman #2: Oh, I know I said so-and-so, but I just chatter. I don't really mean half of the things I say. Questions 1. Why is Woman #1 concerned about her response to the assignment? 2. How is one to know what Woman #2 really believes? Is she being * fair to herself? Because we use words constantly in our daily living, we may overlook the fact that words do more than merely reflect our thinking and emotional attitudes. We may not consider their power to create an emotion within ourselves. Question Do the following words, written or heard in conversation, influence you emotionally? Bitter kind happy frightened horrible compassionate loving depressed ghastly disgusted Negative, critical words often are detrimental to the establishing and maintaining of happy human relationships. The following are simple illustrations: Mother #A: You look simply terrible, son, just terrible. Look at your shirttail, and your shoes. So unkempt! Mother #B: Son, I was so proud of you on Sunday. Everything about your appearance was commendable, from your hair to your shoes. I think, however, that you might tidy up a bit today. Now consider the different responses of the two sons, as illustrative of the fact that we tend to respond in the same emotional tone. Son #1: I don't care if I do, it's not Sunday. Son #2: Were you really proud, Mom? (tucking his shirttail into his trousers). I guess my shoes could really stand a shineup job today. Other situations may be suggested. Further Class Involvement Consider the following expressions of disapproval of the same statement: 1. What you said is a lie. 2. Yourstatementis really not correct. 3. Idonot believe your statement isin harmony with the known facts. Questions 1. What might be the result from each of these comments, in terms of human realtionships? 2. How may thoughts and words so condition a mother's emotion that her attitude may be as expressive as her spoken word? Lesson Department Illustration: "Mother didn't say a word, but I could tell by the way she looked what she was saying inside herself." This situation may also apply in friendto-friend relationships. EFFECT UPON ONESELF Negative, critical words may have a harmful effect upon oneself. The following incomplete sentences illustrate this type of negative thinking: I am afraid... Will happen. She makes me so mad when she.... I hate doing.... I loathe people who.... I know I shall fail when.... Tom CON Class Involvement Replace the underlined negative, actionproducing words with the following positive words: not afraid, happy, love, appreciate, succeed. LIFE ILLUSTRATION You are driving a car when another driver cuts in ahead of you. You might say, '""That stupid person, I hate people who do selfish things like that," or you might say, "That was an unwise action. He might have caused an accident. I am glad I was not driving very fast." Question How might these two reactions influence the enjoyment of the remainder of the trip? Some modern psychiatrists help their patients achieve peace of mind and emotional stability by emphasizing the fact that words may negatively affect the emotions, often causing frustrations, worry, fear, and anxiety. Why use explosive, emotion-stirring words for unimportant ideas? Why not leave them for the major crisis? OUTWARD BOUND The power of one's words to influence other lives is incalculable. The words of good and wise men 

949 December 1967

 throughout the ages have given encouragement, inspiration, and motivation. They are as precious cargo in a vessel, outward bound. Think of the world-wide influence for good of "The Spoken Word" of Elder Richard L. Evans, which is appreciated throughout the reading and listening radio world. Dismal and lonely, indeed, could have been the life of worldknown Helen Keller, had her thoughts remained as dark as her sightless world. But they did not. Assisted by a wise and understanding teacher, Helen's thoughts moved outward, courage-ward, faith-ward. She who could not hear the sound of a vocal word, learned the meaning of words, using them as tools to express her wisdom and love for humanity. She said that life at every stage is good; and she expressed gratitude for even her handicaps, saying that through them, she had found herself, her work, and her God. Such an attitude and such words are as a lamp to all people.: THE POWER OF THOUGHT Class Involvement Discuss, as time will permit, the ideas embraced in the following question-andanswer conversation: Speaker A: Thoughts are so fleeting and illusive. What does one do to encourage or develop good and constructive thoughts when there are so many negative, undesirable situations every where? Speaker B: Don't forget there are plenty of wonderful, beautiful, and challenging things about us also. We encourage good character-building thoughts by making wise choices, by choosing the external stimuli which encourage good thoughts. Speaker A: What, for example? Speaker B: The Church instead of the tavern. The good book instead of the mediocre, time-wasting book. Construc- 950 tive action instead of indolence. The search for praiseworthy qualities in others instead of looking for their weaknesses. The sum total of such wise choices constitutes the nourishment from which wholesome, sound, and constructive thoughts develop. Speaker A: What about delinquency and crime? Speaker B: Delinquency and crime are not the result of good, honest and wholesome thoughts and they are not accompanied by kind, clean, and constructive words. You know the scripture: Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery: But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. (Matt. 5:27-28.) Speaker A: Is it possible for a person never to have an evil, unwholesome thought? Speaker B: I do not believe it is. But you don't need to have a party and invite them to stay. HELP YOURSELF TO BEAUTY Rewarding friendships are built upon a foundation of understanding, appreciation, tolerance, and love. They are not built upon suspicion, gossip, nor criticism, as expressed in thoughts, words, and actions. There are potential friendships almost everywhere. There also is beauty everywhere, interspersed with problems to be resolved, of sorrow to be borne. There is the beauty of nature, the beauty of all human virtues, and all spiritual principle and promise, and the beauty of progress. All this to be understood, expressed, and shared through thought, word, and _ resultant action. The Latter-day Saint woman knows that we have been admonished to let virtue garnish our thoughts unceasingly. (D&C 121: 45.) The Latter-day Saint woman, therefore, is refined in her speech as well as in her actions. She knows that a sense of humor is a valuable asset, but that the offcolor story, the uncouth or vulgar remark, have no place in her life. She seeks to maintain a harmony of thought, word, and action, commensurate with her religious beliefs and standards. She believes that an individual is no higher or lower in the scale of righteousness than her thoughts are. Since her thoughts are the standard of her morality, they are the guage by which her worth to the world is measured. She can, in her mental home, entertain goodness or evil, as she sees fit. She knows that "as he thinketh in his heart, so is he." CONCLUSION William Ernest Henley authored these lines: I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul. (Invictus, Echoes IV, In Memoriam R. T. Hamilton Bruce.) We may not stay the storm, rule the hurricane, avoid the unhappy experiences of life. We canLesson Department not say, "This much of sorrow I will take and no more." But through faith we may triumph over misfortune, make of it a rewarding experience, even a blessing. And we can, in large measure, be master of our thoughts—the captain of our words. And if captain of our thoughts and words, we can become the master of our soul. For Discussion Questions in the lesson, developing most fully those areas which are most applicable to the group. FOR HOME DOING 1. Seek to increase your vocabulary through conscious 'effort. See lesson helps, also articles by Myrtle E. Henderson, Former Head, Speech Department, Dixie College, (1) What Does Your Speech Reveal? The Relief Society Magazine, March 1963, pp. 184-186; (2) What Does Your Speech Reveal? The Relief Society Magazine, March 1964, pp. 216-218; (3) Let's Speak Correctly, The Relief Society Magazine, August 1965, pp. 580-581. 2. Appraise your use of words to see if your speech truly represents yourself. Help family members to know that appropriate, refined speech is a hallmark of human dignity, and a useful tool in forming all rewarding relationships.

the wonder of loving 952 as much as in the wonder of being loved. The section covered by this month's lesson is divided into four parts: First, Burns' "The Cotter's Saturday Night" is a beautiful description in poetry of a family united by deep love and firm parental guidance. Second, "The Parable of the Prodigal Son" is an example of parental love that is genuine and unconditional, after the manner of God's love for his children. Third, Chekhov's "The Darling" is an example of a woman's love that may at first appear admirably unselfish but, on closer analysis, is seen to be unwholesomely possessive. Fourth, a group of love lyrics is included for delight, for beauty, and for a stimulating variety of thoughts. "THE COTTER'S SATURDAY NIGHT" BY ROBERT BURNS Robert Burns (1753-1796) is probably the greatest poet Scotland ever produced, and one of the world's great song writers. In his poetry Burns was an idealist with strong faith in God and in the fundamental goodness of man. In addition to many beautiful lyrics of love and friendship and many delightful satires attractively mixing humor with sharp criticism, he also wrote several excellent narrative poems, of which "The Cotter's Saturday Night" is the most famous. This poem, describing a humble, hardworking Scottish cottager and his family during an evening at home, is the central selection of this month's lesson. Although the poem has some weaknesses (discussed in the text), its-strengths far outweigh them. Beginning with stanza 2, in rich Scottish dialect, Burns describes the humble cottager (cotter), his home, and his family. The poetry is musical and spontaneously attractive, the descriptions are vivid in realistic detail, and the whole scene is authentic and lovely. As the cold November wind blows outside, all is warm and filled with love within the cottage where family and friends gather round the small hearthfire to talk, play games, sing songs, read scripture, and pray on a Saturday evening prior to a day of rest on the Sabbath. As we move through the poem, several valuable reminders of what an ideal family relationship should be impress themselves upon us: (1) the rich joy that all family members have in each other; (2) the genuine love that so Lesson Department abundantly fills the house and binds the family together (remember the words of the familiar song: "There is beauty all around when there's love at home...."); (3) the strong family unity with the mother and the father at the head; (4) the concern of each family member for the welfare of all the others, including the neighbors; (5) the working of the children to help contribute to the needs of the family, with each family member, including both parents and children, having a sense of duty and obedience; (6) a sincere joy of living, but an abiding seriousness, too; (7) the deep religious feeling of the whole family, led by the father, who recognizes his responsibility to study the scriptures with his children and to build character in them; (8) the interest and concern when it is discovered that Jenny has a boyfriend, and the desire to unite him with the family rather than have Jenny and her suitor separate from the family for their entertainment; (9) the conclusion of the evening with Bible reading, the singing of hymns, and, finally, the kneeling of the family in prayer as they simply but movingly speak. To God in "the language of the soul" (stanza 17). Even after the gathering has ended, the father and mother continue close to God and to each other as they kneel in private prayer (stanza 18), thanking God for all their blessings and asking him "in the way His wisdom sees the best" to provide for themselves and for their little ones. The poet has created for all the world a model family bound together by love and religion—all 953. December 1967 things simple and genuine, far removed from outward show and ceremony, which Burns scorned so much. The poem is a beautiful portrayal of the ideal that parents should be affectionate and tenderly loving in all their relationships with each other and with their children, even in times when firm discipline is necessary. The poem is too long to be printed here and will need to be studied from the text, but one stanza will suggest its qualities as the father reminds his children of their responsibilities when working away from home: Their master's an' their mistress's command, The younkers! A' are warnéd to obey; An' mind their labours wi' an eydent? Hand, An' ne'er, tho' out o' sight, to jauk® or play: And O! Be sure to fear the Lord alway, An' mind your duty, duly, morn an' night! Lest in temptation's path ye gang astray, Implore His counsel and assisting might: They never sought in vain that sought the Lord aright! THE PARABLE OF THE PRODIGAL SON (Luke 15:11-32) The greatest, wisest, most skillful teacher the world has ever known was, Jesus Christ, and it is significant that he taught many of his most memorable lessons through short stories, or parables. He knew the power of the parable to dramatize truth, implant it vividly in the mind and heart, and make it a living force in the lives of his listeners. Because the Parable of the lyoungsters 2diligent 3trifle 954 HAWAII Celebrate Christmas or New Years in Hawaii 10 days for only $275 includes jet transportation (from the coast), hotels, lei, transfers, etc. Write for other Hawaii tours 1968. (Write for Rose Bowl Parade Tour) BARNES WORLD TRAVEL AGENCY i' 105 East 3rd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 359-3291 Prodigal Son explores some serious family problems and sensitive family relationships relating to love, we have included it here for study. The story is generally simple and self-explanatory, but several points need analysis. First, note that the younger or "prodigal" son has both good and bad qualities. Obviously, he has sinned seriously, wasting his money on riotous living, including (if we can believe the elder brother) 'squandering it on harlots. Apparently his. Repentance is not as admirable as it could be. For one thing, it-comes only in desperation after he has lost all his money and is starving. Even when he does return to his home, he is motivated, at least in part, by selfish thoughts of what he can get out of his father. Certainly he is not altogether ad- Lesson Department SINGING MOTHER'S ARRANGEMENTS Abide With Me 'Tis Eventide—Madsen @ Bridge Builder Come Come Ye Saints—Madsen @ Gloria @ Glory to God In Thy Form—Madsen @ Lord, Hear Our Prayer Lord's Prayer—Robertson @® Omnipotence O Home Beloved Where- 'er I Wander—Madsen O Savior Hear Me @ Prayer of a Prophet Prayerful Hour @ Thanks Be to Thee—Madsen When Children Pray @ WRITE FOR OUR NEW CHORAL CATALOG Geriro Music Co 327 Broadway Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 ORDERS FILLED THE SAME DAY WE RECEIVE THE ORDER mirable. But he does return. And he is at least partly sincere in his repentance. He does confess his sins and acknowledge his unworthiness, and he does humble himself before his father and before God. He has at least started along the road of redemption. The elder brother also has both good and bad qualities. On the positive side, for years he has obediently lived the commandments of the family, and for vears he has worked hard and faithfully on the family farm. But his attitudes are not as they should be. He shows anger and jealousy, and he is unforgiving towards his brother. Moreover, in his relations with his father he seems to feel that love is a thing to be bought. More important than what happens to either of the sons, so far as the message of this story is concerned, is the attitude of the father. He beautifully displays what Jesus taught in another brief parable immediately preceding this one. (See the Parable of the Lost Sheep, Luke 15:4-7.) Both of these parables illustrate the nature of true love. Love, genuine love, unconditional love, divine love, is a gift that is not dependent on the worthiness of those who are loved. A father or mother does not stop loving a child—at least should not—because the child betrays a trust or turns out to be different from what the parents desire. The child who strays or otherwise sins is loved no less than the one who remains faithful, and the faithful one should rejoice over the repentance of the one who has sinned, not resent him as does the 

955 December 1967

 older brother in this parable. That is, as God has set the pattern in love for his children, so should be the relationships one to another of all of us who are his children. "THE DARLING" BY ANTON CHEKHOV William Blake once wrote a little poem called "The Clod and the Pebble" in which he described two opposite kinds of love: Love seeketh not itself to please, Nor for itself hath any care, But for another gives its ease, And builds a Heaven in Hell's despair." So sang a little Clod of Clay Trodden with the cattle's feet, But a Pebble of the brook Warbled out these metres meet: "Love seeketh only self to please, To bind another to its delight, Joys in another's loss of ease, And builds a Hell in Heaven's despite. This little poem is quoted to remind us that so-called love may be of many kinds, and not all kinds are beautiful and admirable. There are such counterfeit emotions as lust, greed, jealousy, passion, possessiveness, which are perversions of true love. Ideal love involves unselfishness and unity, but as children of God we also need to maintain a dignity of individual personality. Marriage is a union of souls, but not a loss of personal identity, and not a sacrifice of oneself to the extent that if death comes to the marriage partner, one's total personality and purpose die also. Thus we come to the third selection in this month's lesson— "The Darling" by Anton Chekhov (1860-1906), one of Russia's great writers. The story is a character study of a woman whose life displays many unselfish qualities of love, but it becomes so self- 956 ROSE PARADE TOURS Via San Diego Via San Francisco Dec.26 - Jan.2 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 sacrificing, possessive, and smothering that it is unhealthy. This story is too long to be printed here and will need to be studied in the text, but a few questions will focus attention on the problems it explores: 1. Does obedience to the authority of one's husband mean total subservience to his personality? 2. When Christ said, "He that loses his life shall find it," what did he mean? A GARLAND OF LOVE LYRICS The fourth section in this month's lesson is a sampling of love lyrics. From the thousands of lyric poems reflecting all facets of love's variety, examples have been selected illustrating the delight, the beauty, the idealism, and the stimulating thoughtrichness of the world's heritage of love poetry, for love is indeed "a many-splendored thing." Some have been set to music, and others are beloved the world over as folk poems. Still others may not be so familiar but are attractive through the crisp freshness of their thought. SONNET 116 by William Shakespeare (1564-1616) Let me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments. Love is not love Which alters when it alteration finds, Or bends with the remover to remove. Oh no! It is an ever-fixéd mark That looks on tempests and is never shaken. It is the star to every wandering bark, Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken. Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks Lesson Department Within his bending sickle's compass come. Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks, But bears it out even to the edge of doom. If this be error, and upon me proved, I never writ, nor no man ever loved. "BELIEVE ME, IF ALL THOSE ENDEARING YOUNG CHARMS" by Thomas Moore (1779-1852) Believe me, if all those endearing young charrns, Which I gaze on so fondly today, Were to change by tomorrow, and fleet in my arms, like fairy gifts fading away, Thou wouldst still be adored, as this moment thou art, Let thy loveliness fade as it will, And around the dear ruin each wish of my heart Would intwine itself verdantly still. FROM "A BIRTHDAY" by Christina Rossetti (1830-1894) My heart is like a singing bird Whose nest is in a watered shoot; My heart is like an _ apple-tree Whose boughs are bent with thickset fruit; My heart is like a rainbow shell That paddles in a halcyon sea; My heart is gladder than all these Because my love is come to me. "OUTWITTED" by Edwin Markham (1852-1940) He drew a circle that shut me out— Heretic, rebel, a thing to flout. But Love and I had the wit to win: We drew a circle that took him in! "FAULTS" by Sara Teasdale (1884-1933) They came to tell your faults to me, They named them over one by one; I laughed aloud when they were done, I knew them all so well before; — Oh, they were blind, too blind to see Your faults had made me love you more. RITES IOS TES IES VS SSIS iS 

957 December 1967

 SHALL WE BE LIFTED UP? Clara Horne Park Great books are those that contain the best materials on which the human mind can work in order to gain insight, understanding, and wisdom. A well-known philosopher and writer referred to great books as "'the books that never have to be written again." Their beauty and clarity show that they are masterpieces and they remain as world literature. Great books "'are the ones men everywhere turn to again and again throughout their lives." They are often said to be over our heads. That is why they are good for us. Only things that are "over our heads" can lift us up. So, if we want our humility, our ability, and our strength improved, let us study the scriptures and be lifted up. For only things that are over our heads can lift us up. CRAFT SUPPLIES NOW TWO STORES TO SERVE YOU BETTER 1. ZIM'S Convenient Uptown Store—240 East 2nd South 2. ZIM'S Freeway Warehouse Near 45th South and Interstate 15 + MEXICO v2 * HPWAIL ver + ROSE PARADE * EUROPE -ure. 1968. S980 * TEXAS HEMISFAIR For all travel and ticketing arrangements RET Soi wey Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, "Twentyfive Inexpensive Handcraft Projects." DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 328-898; 571-03 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Dept. R. M. 958 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah,» y ZIM S Christmas Gifts History of Relief Society 144 pages illustrated $4.00 Souvenir Relief Society Building Plate: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heavy chain, gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, gold-filled with double goldfilled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pins Double gold-filled, polished back. $5.50 Gold-filled. $3.75 Small Relief Society Emblem Pin (1/10—12 kt. Gold) $1.75 Relief Society Magazine: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational Cover for Binding Twelve Issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.75 ""Wist Ye Not that I Must Be About My Father's Business?"' at 9 Whee bay Mas informative account of the Passover + pine ts bon. And a valuable addition to any home WITT SOOTY library. $2.00 All prices include federal tax, All Postpaid Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 program. "Mle th te i ae ae $2.00 Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and_ highly 100.