[Vol54 | December 1967 | Page 928 | Fiction | A House of | Many Roofs]
A House of Many Roofs Berta Mae C. Peek Fragrant, spicy, old-fashioned gingerbread - and bright, colorful candies set in snowy frosting become a house of childhood's dreams-a delightful miniature Christmas fairytale house. Sweet enough to have enticed Hansel and Gretel to taste it, the house is edible right down to its foil-covered base. A gingerbread house is a holiday gift to en-. Hance any home—on the table, mantel, sideBerta Mae C. Peek and her children Cathy, Jim, and Carol board, or under the Christmas tree—sure to delight everyone from &Sparkling-eyed children to grandparents and great-aunts. One does not have to be an accomplished cake decorator to make a fancy gingerbread house. In fact, it is almost impossible to make an ugly house! I used a family recipe for my house. The following recipe makes enough gingerbread for one house in the dimensions illustrated with the pattern, but the houses can be made in any desired size by doubling the recipe or making the same recipe several times. Color Photography by Charles Peek 928 A House, of Many Roofs GINGERBREAD HOUSE 2%, c. Sifted flour 1 egg - % tsp. Cloves VY, tsp. Salt 3 tsp. Baking powder Yc. Brown sugar (packed) 1 tsp. Ginger 1 tsp. Cinnamon % c. Oil 2, ~c. Molasses Mix thoroughly and chill several hours (overnight or longer). Roll dough on an oiled piece of foil, place on cookie sheet and bake at 300° for 20 to 30 minutes. Place pattern on hot bread and cut immediately. Lift out carefully and cool on cake rack. The gingerbread should be very hard when cool, (if necessary, the pieces can be laid back on the cookie sheet and placed in the oven for five or ten minutes longer.) The roof sections will break off if the dough is not thoroughly baked. ROYAL ICING 3 egg whites (room temperature) 1 Ib. Confectioner's sugar Y, tsp, cream of tartar Beat thoroughly in mixing bowl until the icing stands in peaks, then keep the bow! Covered at all times with a damp cloth, as this icing dries quickly and becomes very hard. If decorator tips and parchment bags are used in applying, use a number 4 writing tip to draw the windows, and a number 30 tip to cover the cut edges along the sides of the house and the seams between the house and the roof. Candies (to be selected from a multitude of various colors and shapes): gumdrops, candy canes, mints, hard candies, etc. Be sure to place the decorative candies in the icing before it hardens. The house should not be frozen or stored in air-tight plastic containers or bags. Added to our annual Christmas "Cookie Carnival" Bazaar, where the accent has been on fine quality home-baked bread, cookies, and candies, our gingerbread man now has his house. The sale of houses alone has increased our gross intake from $500 to $1500 annually. PATTERN We become very excited about, cy. Our gingerbread houses when we Waa we realize these very important '"'housing"' — advantages: BACK 1. Unlike quilting and some other I2" handicraft activities, where only some of the sisters are interested and_ skillful enough to participate, almost everyone is willing to help in some way with the making of the gingerbread houses. 4" SIDE SIDE 2. There seems to be very little competition in the market for gingerbread ) ASSEMBLY houses. Few bakeries can make them, since y L BACK END 5" labor is so expensive. Using icing as "glue," 3. Gingerbread houses are timeless— assemble pieces on year after year, they are delightful gifts. ROOF 10" x ey Pag fo 4. Our ward has found them more a dl profitable time-wise, and more profitable money-wise than any other money-making }e 5" ste 5 scheme we have tried. The cost for making a house is $1.25 or less, and we sell them for $5 each. I_I SIDE 5" SIDE 5" 5. The houses are appealing to nonmember women as well as to our own Relief Society sisters. 929 Christmas Eve in the Earl S. Spafford Home (Continued from page 925) Christmas Eve 1966 in the Earl S. Spafford home, planned and conducted by the children, will be long remembered as a time of reverence and rejoicing, when the true spirit of Christmas—good will and blessings—pervaded the home and hearts of the family. The Spafford children made careful plans to combine Family Home Evening and Christmas Eve into a meaningful hour of words and music and dear companionship. The Christmas tree had been decorated more than a week earlier with chains and bells, and the mother had made the lovely pine cone wreath above the mantel. The entire program was based on the scriptural story of the birth of Jesus as recorded in the gospel of Luke. In front of the glowing fireplace and circled around the Christmas tree, following the opening prayer, the children presented a program of their own choosing. Charles. Kemp played several selections exemplifying the story of Christ and his mission on the earth. Lynn and Alan, in duet, sang a number of Christmas anthems, accompanied by Charles on the viola and Janet at the piano. The theme of the evening was beautifully expressed in Robert's reading of the Biblical account of Christmas from the majestic words of Luke: "And there were in the same country sheperds.... And lo the angel of the Lord came upon them.... And said unto them.... Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord." Robert had practiced the reading and his voice carried the strength and devotion of the sacred language. The children planned and served the refreshments. Honored guests were the grandmothers Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and Ethel Robinson Montague. Christmas Comes to the McGhie Home (Continued from page 925) TURKEY CASSEROLE 3 tbsp. Fat or butter 3 tbsp. Soya sauce 1% c. Coarsely chopped green peppers 2 c. (or more) cooked turkey, ¥, c. Thinly sliced onions slivered, or chunks Y, c. Cornstarch 1% c. Cooked rice 2 c. Stock or chicken soup ( Heat fat or butter in fry pan. Add peppers and onion and cook slightly over low heat. Dissolve cornstarch in small amount of broth, then add to remainder. Add soya sauce to vegetables and stir until thick. Add turkey and pour over rice in casserole dish. Sprinkle with slivered almonds and heat in oven for 15 to 20 minutes at 350 degrees. 930 QUILTS FOR ALL THE FAMILY Addie Bowen of the River Heights Ward, Mount Logan Stake, Utah, has made more than three hundred quilts in thirty years. Sister Bowen has a family of six children, thirty-four grandchildren, and sixteen great-grandchildren. Each new baby has been able to claim a quilt made by Grandma Bowen. Quilts have been given as graduation, wedding, Christmas, and birthday gifts. She has made quilts for people in California, New York, Michigan, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Wyoming, as well as Idaho and Utah. Her husband served as Bishop of the River Heights Ward for ten years.
