Vol. 41. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1912 No. 2.


CONTENTS.
Faith.........................................Aunt Em	9
Quinquennial Report..............................	9
Relief Society Conference......................	10
The Mother’s Paradise............................	11 
Suggestive Plan for Betterment Work....	14
Notes About Women...............................	13
In Memoriam..........................................	16
Relief Society Reports:
	Liberty Stake..................................	14
	Nebo Stake.....................................	14
	Malad Stake....................................	14
	Ogden Stake...................................	15
	Snowflake Stake.............................	15
	Uinta Stake.....................................	15
Editorial:
	Desultory Thoughts........................	12
	Women Recognized........................	12
	The General Conference.................	12
	Great Bodies Meet..........................	13
	Notice.............................................	13
	Correspondence A..........................	13
Poetry:
	Sonnet..............Emmeline B. Wells	9
	The Rose..................Dolores Watts	9
	His Handicap..................................	14
	Old Mothers....................................	16


SONNET.
Here comes October with its gorgeous flowers,
	And Nature’s voices a glad anthem singing,
	The echoes clear thro’ hill and valley ringing,
Filling with joy the Autumn’s happy hours,
And beauty blossoms in the fairest bowers.
	The pretty maidens in their silken gowns
	Of green, and yellow, and of russet browns
Are dancing where the bright leaves fall in
		showers;
Fairies with dainty feet in colors bright,
	The sweetest, fondest memories bringing
		Of festivals we’ve held on life’s highways,
That live and burn within our souls tonight;
		Remembrances around our heart-strings
			clinging,
			Recalling purest joys of glad birthdays.
						—Emmeline B. Wells.
October, 1904.


THE ROSE.
She wears a rose within her hair,
Whose fragrance fills me with despair.
Why should a flower of sweet perfume
Recall old memories of this room,
And one who, long ago, did wear
A rose entwined in her fair hair.
It may be, as I breathe a prayer
Of blessing on that head so fair,
A saintly form of angelic light
Beholds me as I sit tonight
Dreaming of the faded years,
Until mine eyes are filled with tears,
Longing for her at evening’s close
And the perfume of the withered rose.
					—Dolores Watts.


[Column 1]
				FAITH.
	Faith is one of the vital elements essential
to the character of a Saint of God. The cul-
tivation of faith is a duty of our daily lives,
which should not be neglected. It underlies
all the great truths which the gospel teaches.
Without this principle we are blind, and
callous to all that will ennoble, exalt and
purify our hearts, our lives and our aspira-
tions. Especially is it necessary that the
mother be endowed with the precious gifts
and quality of faith; that she should possess
the pure spring of living faith in her soul,
that she may impart the germ to her off-
spring, and seek to promote its culture and
growth in all her teachings to the infant
mind.

[Column 2]
	Many are the simple lessons of faith in
God, and His dealings with mankind,
learned at the mother’s knee, that have gone
with the man out into the great, busy, active
world and given him a deep and lasting
conviction of the evidences of divinity. In
the most trying hour, when all seemed un-
certain and unreliable, the mother’s careful
teachings of the Savior and His blessed
promises, have come with refreshing light
as from heaven, and imparted courage that
could penetrate beyond the dark clouds and
reveal a ray, at least, of glowing light be-
yond.
	There can scarcely be too much said upon
this important subject. It is a topic for
conversation of which we never need tire,
there is so much to be learned of its appli-
cation to our lives and conditions here upon
the earth The instructions given upon
Faith in the Book of Doctrine and Cove-
nants should be carefully studied by our
young people; and the exercise of faith
should be a part of their spiritual education;
and mothers who may feel they are well ac-
quainted with this subject, would be amply
repaid by re-perusing those interesting
chapters upon Faith alluded to above. It
is true that our sisters have had many and
great, practical illustrations of the princi-
ples of faith in their past experiences in this
Church; and it is very edifying to hear re-
hearsed some of these striking instances
of the sublimity of faith, given to the
Saints when passing through deep trials
and serious afflictions. How much darker
and drearier and more desolate still, would
the wearisome days of travel and pilgrim-
mage have been, through which our people
have passed, if they had not been rich in
that holy faith which lifts the human soul
above the clouds into the clearer atmosphere
of a higher altitude.
	Strength, courage and heroism are some
of the excellent fruits of this beautiful plant
of spiritual origin. It is sometimes urged
that “faith is not tangible,” and those de-
void of this quality often remark “we want
something more tangible than faith!”
Some of the most powerful elements oper-
ating in nature are not tangible, except as
applied to tangible substances, and yet how
wonderful are their forces when thus
brought to bear upon other objects. Just
so with faith; in itself intangible, yet most
potent when applied to truths, to circum-
stances and to the lives of individuals. Faith
cannot be measured. The great manifesta-
tions of the power of faith in healing the
sick are marvels and wonders to the unbe-
lieving, whose minds, lacking this attribute,
cannot comprehend mysteries of the unseen
which can only be understood by the spir-
itual sense.
	I am sure there are many instances of
the power of faith in the healing of the sick,
that have never been told to our children,
that would promote the growth of faith
were they known. I will relate a very re-
markable one to which I was an eye wit-
ness many years ago. A young lady about
eighteen years of age was thrown from a

[Column 3]
carriage and her knee badly injured: her
parents being in good circumstances took
her to several of the best physicians in that
part of the State where it occurred; it was
in Massachusetts, near the Connecticut
river. These doctors tried their skill, but
all failed to cure her and they decided she
must be a cripple for life and compelled to
walk with crutches. The Mormon Elders
came to that vicinity, the parents of the
young lady received and obeyed the Gospel.
They were anxious their daughter should
be baptized, believing firmly she would be
healed. After some time, for she was a
very aristocratic girl and did not like to
give up her position in the world, she gave
her consent to be baptized. It was a very
cold day, the brook was frozen solid, a hole
was cut in the ice, and one after another
went into the water, and by and by, the
lame girl with her crutches came down to
the water’s edge. The Elders baptized her,
she walked out of the water, whole, and
never had occasion to use her crutches after.
The fact of her being healed created quite
a sensation, especially among the doctors
who came from far and near to inquire by
what means it had been done. But none
could gainsay it.
	This is only one of thousands of mani-
festations of the power of healing.
	The children in Zion should seek after
mighty faith, for there are great works to
be accomplished by them. They have been
born in the holy priesthood and are heirs
to all the promises of the new and everlast-
ing covenant, and God is ready and willing
to pour out rich blessings upon them if they
will seek unto Him and keep His holy com-
mandments; and let us all remember, with-
out faith it is impossible to please God.
						AUNT EM.


QUINQUENNIAL REPORT.
	Of General Secretary of Relief Society.
	Brief review of the work of the National
Woman’s Relief Society from October,
1907, to October, 1912.
	During the past five years the great work
of the Relief Society has been going for-
ward with energy and earnestness, through
the willing and untiring efforts of the Gen-
eral, Stake, and Local officers and the mem-
bers themselves. Many events of impor-
tance have taken place and many changes
have been made.
	It is with feelings of pride that we record
the establishment of Relief Society head-
quarters in the Bishop’s Building, in Decem-
ber, 1909, and for the first time in its history
the General Society has rooms for the
transaction of its business.
	Since the acquirement of these headquar-
ters there have been several notable birthday
celebrations: On May 3, 1910, a party was
given by the General Board in honor of the
eighty-eighth birthday anniversary of Presi-
ident Bathsheba W. Smith, in appreciation
of her life long labors, both in the Temple
and in the Relief Society. The late Presi-
dent John Henry Smith acted as master of


[Column 1]
ceremonies. Sister Smith, in her beautiful
white home-made silk dress, very graciously
received the guests.
	On February 29, 1912, the eighty-fourth
birthday anniversary of President Emmeline
B. Wells was fittingly celebrated by the
General Board. One of the chief features
of the occasion was the conferring of the
honorary degree of Doctor of Literature by
the Brigham Young University of Provo
through its president, Joseph F. Smith, upon
President Wells, who received this very un-
usual honor in the sweet and modest man-
ner so characteristic of her. Many glowing
tributes were paid to “Aunt Em,” and the
occasion was one to be long remembered.
	It is with feelings of sorrow and rever-
ence that we record the death of our late
beloved president, Sister Bathsheba W. 
Smith, which occurred Tuesday morning,
September 20, 1910. As President Wells
says in a tribute, “Her life was full to the
brim of usefulness in the Master’s service.
Everywhere she went she scattered bless-
ings, and her life was one of peace.” Her
unceasing efforts in the cause of righteous-
ness, her gentleness and unselfishness
should be an inspiration and example to
us all.
	On March 12, 1909, Sister Annie Taylor
Hyde, First Counselor to Sister Smith,
pased peacefully away. She had held posi-
tions of trust and responsibility in our or-
ganization, which she always filled with
honor. She had journeyed far and wide in
the interest of the Relief Society.
	Sister Rebecca E. Mantle Little, another
member of the General Board, passed to the
beyond May 29, 1909. While Sister Little
had been a member but a short time, by her 
excellent work she had made her influence
felt.
	March 3, 1912, Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff passed away. She was wife of the late
President Wilford Woodruff, and had been
a valiant member of the Board from the
beginning.
	Several stake officers, who have done ex-
cellent, faithful work, have also passed
away, but they still live in the hearts of their
co-workers.
	At the October conference, 1910, Sister
Emmeline B. Wells was sustained as Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints through-
out the world, with Sister Clarissa S. Wil-
liams as First Counselor and Sister Julina
L. Smith, Second Counselor.
	The storing of wheat has been a cause of
anxiety to almost every stake. On account
of the difficulties encountered, the First
Presidency and the Presiding Bishopric rec-
ommended that the grain owned by the
Relief Society be stored in elevators, built
for the care and storing of wheat, and which
were owned and operated by responsible
parties. In some stakes arrangements have
been made by which money is paid to the
Presiding Bishopric for wheat, and they de-
posit that amount of wheat at the elevator,
based on the current market price, which
method has been found beter than deposit-
ing wheat in local grist mills and far more
satisfactory than that of each Relief Society
building a separate granary. Letters of in-
structions in regard to the matter were sent
to each stake.
	During the past five years calls have been
made by the Presiding Bishopric for large
supplies of linen and material for the Dr.
Groves’ L. D. S. Hospital. The amount of

[Column 2]
money required for the purchase of these
supplies was apportioned, and the stakes re-
sponded liberally. The articles were cut out
and made by members of the Society freely
as a labor of love.
	In the beginning of the year 1912, the
First Presidency requested President Wells
to take up the matter of preparing Temple
clothing, with the idea that the General
Board prepare and keep on hand suitable
clothing for those going into the Temple,
and also for burial purposes. President
Wells appointed Counselor Julina L. Smith
chairman, she to appoint her own commit-
tee; and as a result there is on hand a supply
of beautiful clothing, which can be rented or
purchased at a reasonable price by those
presenting letters of recommendation from
their bishop and the President of the Relief
Society.
	Moral conditions in the larger cities have
rendered it necessary for the Board to take
steps along the line of protecting our young
people from existing evils. A committee
appointed by the President has been work-
ing, in connection with a committee from
other organizations, along these lines.
	The Relief Society is always ready and
willing to respond to calls for the alleviation
of suffering and distress. A beautiful ex-
ample of this was the general and cheerful
response made to the call for assistance for
the Chinese and the Mississipi flood suffer-
ers. Probably over one-half of the amount
that was raised by the whole state of Utah
was contributed by the Relief Society.
	The subject of sanitation and preventive
measures in sickness is causing agitation in 
the world generally, and efforts are being
made to interest the members of the Relief
Society in this important subject. Circulars
containing valubale information have been
sent out by the Board of Health, through 
the General Board, to the various stakes,
with the hope that it will be a great assist-
ance in the prevention of disease.
	One of the important events that have
happened during the past year is the plac-
ing of an article, written by President Em-
meline B. Wells, containing a brief history
of the Relief Society, also portraits of the
five presidents of the Relief Society, with a
sketch of the life of each president, in Ap-
pleton’s American Biographical Cyclopedia.
The articles are beautifully written by Presi-
dent Wells, and reflect credit upon the or-
ganization, and will present the work of the
Relief Society in a proper light before the
world.
	The work of our great organization is
constantly progressing. Many stakes have
distinctive features which have been of ben-
efit to them. An example of what can be
done by individual wards in various stakes
of Zion is the effort that has been made in
raising funds for special purposes by the
collection of “Sunday eggs.” Large amounts
have been raised in this manner for build-
ing houses and for various other purposes.
	During the past five years an effort has
been made to interest the Relief Society in
genealogical and Temple work. In some
stakes geenalogical classes have been or-
ganized, and other stakes are anticipating
having these classes introduced; and a much
greater interest is being taken in this and
in Temple work.
	Among the important events is the build-
ing of Relief Society halls, Relief Society
rooms in meeting houses, assisting in the

[Column 3]
building of ward meeting houses and
amusement halls, purchasing sacrament ser-
vices, musical instruments, linen, etc. Many
yards of carpet and thousands of quilts have
been contributed.
	From reports received and from visits
made it is seen that the officers and mem-
bers are working in harmony for the ad-
vancement of the cause of the Relief So-
ciety.
		OLIVE D. CHRISTENSEN,
						Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Tabernacle, Thurs-
day, Oct. 3, 1912, with President Emmeline
B. Wells presiding.
	The singing during the conference was
furnished by the Relief Society choir of
Granite stake.
MORNING SESSION.
	Hymn, “Hail to the brightness of Zion’s
glad morning;” prayer by Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth; singing, “Scatter Sunshine.”
Loving and congratulatory address of wel-
come by President Emmeline B. Wells; elo-
quent and interesting response by Mrs.
Mary J. R. West; duet, “Truth Reflects
Upon the Senses,” Mrs. Green and Mrs.
Curtis.
	Reports of the Relief Society of the fol-
lowing stakes were given as follows: Ogden
stake, by Mrs. Sarah M. Taylor; Sevier
stake, by Mrs. Christina Sorensen; Deseret
stake, by Mrs. Mary M. Lyman.
	Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke in ap-
preciation of the work done by the Relief
Society. When the Prophet Joseph Smith
organized the Relief Society, she said, he
could see further than we can see today.
Zion is growing and the Relief Society is
prospering, and the work will continue to
grow, Mrs. Smith urged the young girls to
dress modestly, as becoming to Latter-day
Saints; also spoke of arrangements having
been made for the making and supplying of
suitable clothing for the dead.
	Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox in an address
said in part:
	“It is a great blessing and privilege to be
living today—the day of fulfillment of
prophecy and of the dreams of great inven-
tors and discoverers. The present time is
the most glorious ever upon the earth. With-
out the work of the inspired discoverers and
inventors we could not today be enjoying
the blesings we now have. If they had not
had their great dreams and had they not
been inspired to work them out, think of the
advantages we should have been deprived
of today. Columbus was inspired to make
the sacrifices he did in discovering the
western country—the revolutionary fathers
and the soldiers suffered to make possible
the liberty of this beautiful land. We reap
the benefits and sacrifices of all of this.”
	Mrs. Wilcox told of the attention now be-
ing given to the subjects of health and of
the work being done by the state board of
health. She recalled that a prominent man
once said that he believed the time would
come when a normal child, born of normal
parents, would consider it a reproach to be
in ill health, and it seems that efforts are
now being made to bring about the fulfill-
ment of that condition. The Bible, she
said, “tells us that greater things hath no


[Column 1]
man done than this that he giveth his life
for his friend.”
	Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune gave a report
of the Relief Society in New York, and the
work it is doing.
	The benediction was pronounced by Mrs.
Emily S. Richards.
	The afternoon session was opened by the
singing of “Zion prospers, all is well,” Dr.
Romania B. Penrose offered the prayer.
	President Emmeline B. Wells spoke of
the blessings that had been given to the
daughters of Zion. She advised all to do
their work, in whatever line it should be, to
the best of their ability, and to follow the
good examples of those who had spent their
lives in doing good for others.
	An address on “Education of Women,”
was given by Mrs. Sarah M. Stewart, who
said “Froebel says that the education of the
child begins with the grandparents. We ap- 
peal to the parents that the progress of hu-
manity may go on. A few years ago women
did not have the educational privileges that
men had; not until about the time of the
Prophet Joseph Smith did they receive any
kind of recognition. They first demanded
education and claimed the fact that the men-
tal powers of women are equal to men.
	“The highest and noblest ambition of a
woman should be to be queen of the home
and the mother of noble children. Walt
Whitman says, ‘It is great to be a man, but
it is greater to be the mother of men.’
	“Women reach their highest, noblest, and
best as wives and mothers, as homekeepers.
The home today, seems to be neglected. It
is a place where people eat and sleep, but as
a home it is far from ideal. The home
should be the center of all that is good, the
center from which radiates the intelligence
and glory of the world. The example of
parents will influence the lives of their chil-
dren for good or otherwise. The highest ed-
ucation is the education for parenthood. In
the past it was thought sufficient if the
mother was good and pure, but now it is
demanded that there be a perfect father-
hood. Idealize the home.”
	“Mrs. Stewart made a plea for the educa-
tion of girls that would fit them to be good
wives and mothers, that they might be pre- 
pared to put into their homes the ideal moth-
erhood. The best of our lives she said
should be put into our homes, into our work,
and that no stone should be left unturned to
make our homes the best of homes.
	Reports of the Relief Societies in the fol-
lowing stakes were given; Millard stake,
by Mrs. Adeline Smith; Jordan stake, by
Mrs Hilda A. Larsen; Salt Lake stake, by 
Mrs. Harriet B. Harker; St. Joseph stake,
by Mrs. Sarah A. Layton.
	“Count your many blessings,” was sung
by the choir.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams said in
part: ‘I am grateful that I am descended
from honest and true men and women, who
have laid down their lives for the truth for
which they stood. As Latter-day Saints our
lives are always on the altar. At any time
we are on hand to make the sacrifice, if it 
becomes necessary. The labors of the women
of the Church are labors of sacrifice. Sac-
rifice brings forth the blessings of heaven.
It is the doing for others which brings hap-
piness, joy, and consolation.”
	Mrs. Williams told of the ravages by dis-
ease in some communities and urged the
members of the Relief Society to do all in

[Column 2]
their power to keep away sickness by pro-
curing a pure water suply and freeing their
premises from anything that would have a
tendency to breed disease.
	Dr. Jane Skolfield said; “If we wish im-
proved conditions in sanitary and civic
affairs, the women must become interested,
because this work appeals more to them than
to men. In the past, the work that has been
done along the lines of sanitation, protecting
food suply, pure water, etc., has been done
largely by women. Dr. Skolfield urged the
women to band themselves together for the
bettering of sanitary and civic conditions,
and to use their right as enfranchised citi-
zens to help in these matters.
	The benediction was pronounced by Mrs.
Susa Young Gates, and the conference was
adjourned for six months.
			OLIVE D. CHRISTENSEN, 
							Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE MOTHERS' PARADISE.
	The subject of our thoughts offers oppor-
tunity for many and varied opinions. A
careful study of children only convinces one
most thoroughly that children can not be
brought up, either by books or any one set
of rules. Circumstances of parents, family
traditions, traits, and most of all—child
character itself—shows that in the rearing
of a child, that child itself being the prime
factor, must necessarily be the principal
study. The hope and the faith of the
woman's heart while anticipating mother-
hood, and the delight and pleasure mingled
with good sense and wisdom in the early
care of the little one, the birth, the first
preparations regarding the care, the cloth-
ing and feeding of this precious gift, and
the first few years training of the little child,
is this time not indeed the mother's para-
dise; the development of a little life, God
given for us to teach and train.
	One of the sweetest things in all the
world is the prayer of a little child; no
music sweeter than his little voice, no pic-
ture more beautiful than a baby at his
mother's knee lisping his first little prayer.
Little folks, like grown folks, do not all
feel the same; some are naturally more spir-
itual than others, but all can be taught when
quite young a few simple words of prayer
and made to feel the occasion to be a solemn
moment. Children are very inquisitive and
frequently very skeptical, about sacred mat-
ters, and some times are known to ask ques-
tions about the Lord and heaven which their
parents are puzzled how to answer, not be-
cause they do not themselves know, but be-
cause it is not always easy or wise to ex-
plain to a child matters of that kind, and a
parent should strive to avoid too much ar-
gument about spiritual matters, while
always keeping within the child's heart a
reverence for the Lord and perfect faith
and trust in Him. Children generally are
full of faith, their trust in the Lord is im-
plicit and even so does the child have faith
in and trust his mother. How then, more
than anyone, should she strive never to de-
ceive her child and never to break a prom-
ise. It is far better not to make promises to
a child unless you surely can fulfill them,
for if failing one is likely to lose his confi-
dence and trust. In the development of a
child the mother has always these two
greatest assistants—love and nature—one

[Column 2]
the incentive, the other the guide, and if she
uses them wisely, even though extravagant-
ly, she is sure of success. In the moral de-
velopment of a child the greatest watch and
care is necessary; surely remember the wise
saying, "As the twig is bent the tree is in-
clined," and parents should guard carefully
themselves in their actions and words to-
wards a child. If a little one happens to be
mischievous or inclines to little rebellious
acts, mothers frequently resort to correcting
those faults by threats of or whippings for
punishment and the fear often prompts the
child to a falsehood in order to avoid the
promised punishment. Very small children,
except in rare instances, can not be rea-
soned with, but by some kind reproof can
be taught the difference between good and
evil and the best way to keep a child from
mischief or evil doing, just as with older
people, is to give him somtehing to do. It
is surprising how much a little child can
help his mother and how much it pleases
him. While the mother is necessarily em-
ployed in her household duties she can have
her little folks around her and be singing
nursery songs with them or telling them
little stories or repeating little verses, and
it is wonderful how readily the little folks
learn to repeat the same stories and also
learn the moral of them. The German
mother, when she sees her baby with a
match or sharp instrument, says, "Ah
Gabeln, messer, scherrer, licht, Gibt man
kleinen kinder nicht," which means in Eng-
lish, "forks, knives, scissors, or light, no
one must allow little children to have." If
mothers don't know any beautiful kinder-
garten songs, they ought if possible to learn
them for the children's sake and you would
not believe how much amusement and even
philosophy there is in the rhymes of Mother
Goose. Oh, but the busy mother says we
haven't time. Ah, there you are entirely
wrong. The early lessons of childhood can
easily be given during your morning work.
It lightens the work to have the children
with you. If you are washing the break-
fast dishes, perhaps some of them are dec-
orated with flowers and then a lesson in
color and form can be learned. The names
of the different dishes and the shape and
use may be talked about if they are round
or square, or oval, if they are china, or
glass, silver or tin, and so it is in every
occupation in the home, and who knows
but that perhaps in thus using her thinking
faculties, with her work, the mother learns
something as well. There are mothers with
little tots, too young yet for school, who
take time every morning to take them to a
room alone, and sing with them one or two
little hymns and repeat with them the Lord's
prayer, then pray a morning prayer of her
own. Do you think that mother loses any
moments from her work? No, indeed, she
gains them, for her work is lighter with the
children's co-operation and the kind spirit
that must be in such a home. The molding
of the character of a little child is the great-
est of all work.
A. W. C.


Robert Barr, the Scottish novelist, died
of heart failure October 22. He was as
well known in America as in England, hav-
ing at one time been connected with the
Detroit Free Press. His novels have al-
ways been among the best sellers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, U[-]ah
[-]s second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH - OCTOBER, 1912


THE GENERAL CONFERENCE. 
	Perhaps in the history of the Church there 
has never been a more interesting confer-
ence than the one held this month, October,
1912.
	All the general quorums of the Priest-
hood full and splendidly represented. There 
were no vacancies to fill and the spirit of the 
conference was indeed inspiring and uplift-
ing. President Joseph F. Smith presided
at all the sessions and the people certainly 
felt and realized his power and authority.


The atendance was very large indeed. In
fact the Tabernacle which at one time
seemed too large for anything is now not
nearly large enough to hold the expectant,
eager people who throng to hear the counsel
and advice of their great leaders. President
Smith’s admonitions to the women who hold
office and preside over the different auxil-
iary organizations, namely, the Relief So-
ciety, the Y. L. M. I. A., and the Primary
should be emphasized through these col-
umns, as they have already been at the dif-
ferent officers’ meetings in the form of reso-
lutions.
	The following is, in part, what he said,
and we urge all the sisters to take heed and
not only listen to the voice of counsel but at-
tend to these things in their own lives and
in their teaching to others. President Smith’s
remarks:
	President Joseph F. Smith closed the con-
ference. He asked that all set their faces
like flint against the spirit of apostacy, dark-
ness, violation of the Sabbath, and irrever-
ence for the other important doctrines of
the Church, making an earnest appeal to all,
to hold sacred every human and divine
right.
	Against immoral dressing among the
young women of the Church President
Smith made the strongest plea. He request-
ed that ward bishops, officers of the Relief
Society, of the Y. L. M. I. A., and of the
Primary association use every means of per-
suasion to prevent it, and if members of the
different organizations insisted, and would
not discontinue to dress in a way that ex-
poses portions of the body to the gaze, he
said, then they should be disqualified as
members, and associates, and be deprived of
their places in the Church. Unless the
women and the girls in the Church can
clothe themselves decently, President Smith
declared, they should not be tolerated as a
part of the Church.
	Card playing President Smith also brand-
ed as one of the intolerable things among
the members of the Church and enjoined
all officials and members to exert their in-
fluence against that practice.
	The conference was in every respect most
successful and the people must surely feel
satisfied with the wisdom and counsel there
manifested. These great congregations of
the Saints, listenig to the eloquence of the
Priesthood and the wonderful music of the
large choir and great organ produce such
an exultant feeling of joy and thankfulness
in the heart for the knowledge and blessing
of the Gospel of Christ as to buoy one up
for life’s battles with renewed strength and
fortitude.


[Column 1]
	WOMEN RECOGNIZED.
	One interesting feature of the political
situation this year is the sudden popularity
of the suffrage cause. While heretofore
men in public life have at least not been
very ardent on this subject, we find this year
that great force is being put forward by all
parties to obtain the suffrage vote. The
women of the National Suffrage Associa-
tion have declared themselves for Colonel
Roosevelt and the Progressive party, but
that does not follow that the women in the
suffrage states are in any way pledged to
any party, on the contrary, the women claim
equal privilege with men and ally them-
selves with the party of their choice. It is
true the platform of the Progressives prom-
ises many of the reforms the women have
long labored to obtain and hold out alluring
offers for the suffrage vote, yet it is also

[Column 2]
equally true that Colonel Roosevelt has not
been until this campaign a very ardent sup-
porter of the suffrage cause, either in his
speeches or writings. His praise of
Jane Addams is unbounded, and so is
ours, and that of all people who under-
stand her splendid work, but in praise of
these reform workers of today let us not
forget nor underrate the work of those
brave pioneer women who by their force of
character, their undaunted faith in their
work and in their cause, threw down the
barriers and made it possible for women to-
day to accomplish great things. Susan B.
Anthony, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, and others were earnest and ag-
gressive in their fight for equal rights. They
endured contumely and oppression, ridicule
and persecution, but valiantly and fearlessly
they fought their way along and lived at
least long enough to see a steady increase in
their ranks and victory ahead.
	There was always an ardent desire among
the suffrage workers for a constitutional 
amendment giving the suffrage to all the
women at once, but while that has been de-
ferred, the states one by one are falling into
line and who knows but what this present
condition in the political field will bring
about the result the women so long have
tried to obtain.
	In all the suffrage states the different
political parties this year have women can-
didates on their tickets for state and county
offices. In our own state there are eleven
women thus recognized. The Democratic
party have two names for the lower house
of the legislature, Mrs. Alice M. Horne and
Mrs. Isabelle Kenner. The Progressive
party have two lady Presidential electors,
Mrs. W. H. De Wolfe and Mrs. C. E. Coul-
ter, and two representatives, Mrs. W. H.
Wilkensen and Mrs. Lavina Livingston.
	The Republican party have five women
candidates, four for the lower house, Dr.
Jane Skolfield, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon,
Mrs. Anna H. King and Mrs. Edith E.
Read, while for Presidential elector they
have selected Mrs. Margaret Zane Wichter.
Mrs. Witcher claims the distinction of being
the first woman in the United States to re- 
ceive this honor.
	It is now generally conceded that wom-
an’s influence in the different lines of reform
and philanthropic work has become so pow-
erful that it needs must be recognized. In
all the states the women have had legislative
committees to work with the law-makers
for such laws that would benefit the people,
especially the working girl, the mother and
the child, and now with women not only to
lobby but to help make the laws there is
certainly cause for congratulation and we
hope this is only the bigninnig of the good
work.


[Column 1]
		DESULTORY THOUGHTS.
	The age in which we of today are living
is not only eventful but interesting and pro-
gressive. The discoveries and inventions
that have added so materially to the interest
of all mankind in several directions, useful
as well as uplifting in the various depart-
ments of life itself, and in the occupations
that men and women pursue and the benefits
that accrue to the world at large by means
of all these things, make for a higher
and a more complete existence even if more
complex. Therefore we can with the ut-
most assurance say that this world of ours
and this age, in which the present genera-
tion is taking part is the greatest yet known
on this earth.
	It is the day the prophets of old looked
forward to and prophesied concerning what
would come to pass.
	It is well for those who are taking part in
the labors and in the events now transpiring
that they consider their privileges and live
up to them and act wisely and judiciously in
all that they do and in that which trans-
pires around them.
	We are none of us living for ourselves
alone, not even for our own families or
kindred. We are a part of the great whole,
the great world and the generation of to-
day.
	To the Latter-day Saint men and women
this is the most auspicious time in the his-
tory of mankind. The Priesthood has been
restored after generations of darkness, su-
perstition and bigotry, and a new era of light
and freedom has dawned and with all this
has come greater enlightenment to all the
inhabitants of the earth. The key of knowl-
edge has been turned and, accompanied by
power and blessings from on high, has
spread far and wide and will eventually
cover the whole earth.
	That prophecy is now coming to pass
regarding the last days is apparent in the
fact the Lord said He would bring to pass
“a marvelous work and a wonder.” Cer-
tainly it cannot be gainsaid.
	Not only in all material things but also in
that which may be termed spiritual, is the
work a wonderful one: the building of
many Temples in which men may offici-
ate in the order of the Holy Priest-
hood for the living and for the gener-
ations passed away who had not this great
privilege and without whom families could
not be made perfect in the hereafter. Even

[Column 2]
poets, who are also in a certain sense proph-
etic if not prophets, have been wrought up-
on concerning this wondrous work for the
dead.
	Wordsworth, one of the great poets of
England, as early as 1825, in his Ode on
Imagination, has these remarkable lines:
“Be it not unordained that solemn rights,
Within the circuit of those gothic walls
Shall be performed at pregnant intervals;
Commemoration holy that unites
The living generation with the dead.”
	In view of the greatness of the day in
which we are now living it certainly be-
hooves those who are taking part to appre-
ciate the blessings of the age. It is a
solemn duty to remember the great men
and women who have brought about
the liberty vouchsafed to this nation and
to emulate the best examples of those who
have given by their sublime lives and acts
that priceless freedom which we so enjoy
in this western land and to hold sacred
the privileges of religious liberty for the
land dedicated thereto.
	It is the privilege as well as the duty of
every one to maintain the government of
the country and to build up the waste places
and make them habitable and desirable, so
the nations afar off will come to the house
of the Lord in the tops of the mountains
as has been prophesied.
	Therefore, we repeat that this is the
greatest age of the world and those who
are young will see the brilliant future which
is to surpass in all that is glorious and
desirable all other ages of the world.
	The sacred music that will yet be given
in the holy Temples of the Lord, the an- 
thems and hymns, and the mighty work of
salvation which is to be performed—who is
to do this? Those who are young today and
those who are yet unborn must necessarily
perform this great undertaking—therefore
there should be no waste of energy in that
which is vain and worthless, but careful
preparation in wisdom to educate the mind
and the heart, that therein may be a willing-
ness to use the gifts of the higher nature
to excel in that which will tend to glorify
Zion and extend and make beautiful its bor-
ders; and in the future advancement of the
age all may take part who are willing to
be obedient to the gospel, and there will be
ample room for all to unite in the great
work of making an Eden on earth accord-
ing to the prophecies of old and of the day
in which we live.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	In the suffrage states the child labor law
prohibits the employment of children in cer-
tain occupations, fixes age limits for em-
ployment, prescribes severe penalties, re-
quires registration of all children employed
and also certificates from school authorities.
	A determined effort will be made by the
Era Club of New Orleans at its next session
to force the Medical College of Tulane Uni-
versity, through the aid of the courts, to ac-
cept women applicants on the same terms
as men. Paul Tulane’s will reads that the
college shall be given over to members of
the white race, and he did not make any dis-
tinction of sex, but women have always
been refused admission to the institution.


GREAT BODIES MEET. 
	This month three great congresses take 
place in Germany, each important to the 
suffrage cause.  The National Council of 
Women of Germany meets in October, and 
one of the subjects to be discussed is “The 
Participation of Women in Politics.” Later 
in the month the German Woman Suffrage 
Association will hold an executive meeting, 
when the officers of ten national and twelve
provincial associations will outline a plan of 
work. The National Convention of the 
Liberal party has also been set for October, 
and the enfranchisement of women is one of 
the important topics to be considered.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.
	At present there are a number of young
women working in the missionary field, full
of zeal in their labors and with joy in their
hearts for the blessed privilege of bearing
the glad tidings to the people of the world,
as their brothers have been permitted to do
these many years past. The following let- 
ter and poem was written from one of these
girl missionaries for the occasion of her
great-grandmother’s ninetieth birthday an-
niversary, and as it breathes somewhat of
the freshness and devotion of youth’s en-
thusiasm, we have accepted it for publica-
tion.—Ed. 
			Kansas City, Sept. 25, 1912.
My Own Dear Grandma: 
	Please accept these few lines—hurriedly 
written—as my contribution for your birth-
day. 
	May you have many happy returns of the
day—may this birthday be the crowning
happiness of your life, thus far.
	I am so happy, grandma, I couldn’t write
anything very sad. And so busy I couldn’t
find much time to think.
	I am so thankful to be one of the spirits
permitted to come through your lineage
and I love you.
	I am sending you several hundred bar-
rels of love, C. O. D. Perhaps they will
not get there for a year, so take good care
of yourself, and I wil deliver them next
year in person.
	Once more wishing you a happy, happy
time, I must say good-bye. God bless my
dear little grandmother.
	Your far away loving (great grand)
child, 
			LOUISA T. BARKDULL. 

		TO GRANDMA.
This world is such a grand old place;
	I love this life: with all its pain;
To me it is a Paradise,
	For those who truly love, live not in vain.

So many sons and daughters of thy race
	Are thanksful for their goodly parentage;
Your name they speak with pride and ten-
		derness,
	And praise you for their goodly heritage.

We bow our heads in reverence,
	Tears flood our eyes—we bend a knee,
Our souls breathe forth a grateful prayer,
	For thee we hold in sweetest memory.

[Column 2]
With him to whom you pledged your life
	In the dearest joy of expectant youth,
Left home and friends and kindred ties
	In answer to the call of truth.

Thou noble soul—that years have crowned
	With snowy locks and furrowed brow,
Whose heart is ever as young and warm
As your tender smile is pleasing now.

Thine eyes, through which the spirit gleams,
	Have ever looked to heaven for aid
To find the straight and narrow path,
	Asisgned before this world was made!

Those lips that never once complained
	Because “thy cross” was hard to bear,
Have taught so many other lips
	To say “the Grace,” and offer prayer.

The whispering of the “still small voice”
	That to thine ears so often come,
Has been the music of thy life
	In a melody-like, “Home, sweet Home!”

Tho’ Babies claimed your tender care,
	You brought them from your native land;
You braved the mighty billows’ depths
	And placed all care in God’s own hand.

You spanned the country’s desert plains,
	Step by step, with other braves;
Our country was thus measured then,
	The distance marked by groans and graves!

You climbed the mountains with the rest,
	“A Pioneer” in very deed!
And lived those terrifying scenes
	That no one cares to see or read!

But, grandma, vou nobly lived your part,
	Your children have proved to be "Gifts from
		God!”
And now your children’s children’s children
	Are following in the steps you trod!

A “Mother”—the holiest word we know—
	A “Latter-day Saint” she is known;
A ‘Pioneer,” too’ and a truer or better
	Or a braver one you will never see!

 Christ said: “My sheep shall know my voice;”
	You knew and to the flock you came.
And now your children are in the world
	Teaching the Truth in the Savior’s name!

They are thankful to have the chance to go,
	To deliver the gospel and help repay,
The Elder who left his home and all
	To show you the grand eternal way!

We love you, grandma, dear—we do!
	We want you to live a hundred years!
We need you to teach us how to be true,
	How to smile away sorrow and bitter tears.

And when we have passed from this sweet,
		short life,
	To that other home, in the “land of the
		Blest,”
We want you to welcome us—every one—
	And say: “Bless you dear, you have done
		your best!”'


NOTICE.
	While expecting to make the change in
the form of the EXPONENT to a magazine
and preparing for the same, a number of
articles about the March Annual were re-
ceived which we had hoped to be able to
publish, but as our readers are aware there
was no issue of the paper from May until
the September number, when this present
volume begins, the hope of the magazine be-
ing deferred for the present; and it would
be out of place to publish at this late day
these notices. However, we thank the sis-
ters for sending them and hope in the regu-
larity of the paper henceforth to be able to
publish these interesting items in the season
thereof.
	We would again insist that all notices,
obituaries, and minutes of conferences, par-
ties, etc., sent for publication be written on
one side of the paper only, as it is impossi-
ble for the printer to set his copy correctly,
unless properly prepared


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HIS HANDICAP.
He wooed her when they both were poor,
	’twas then he won her, too;
She cheered him when the days were drear,
	and toiled to help him through;
She taught him things from books that he had
	failed to learn in youth,
She got him to avoid the use of words that
	were uncouth:
She took her jewel in the rough, she polished
	day by day,
And with a woman’s patience [-]round the
	worthless parts away.
She turned him from a stupid clown to one
	whose mein was proud,
She planted in his heart the wish to rise above
	the crowd;
She planned the things he undertook, she
	urged him on to try,
She gave him confidence to look for splendid
	things and high;
She bore the children that he loved and toiled
	for them and him,
And often knelt beside her bed with aching
	eyes and dim.
She cheered him when the days were dark, and
	when the skies were bright
She saw him rise above the crowd and reach
	a noble height;
Her brow is marred by many a line; she’s bent
	and wan and old.
He has a bearing that is fine, a form of noble
	mold;
And people say: “Poor man, alas! He’s grown
	beyond his wife;
How sad that such a load should be attached
	to him for life!”
		—From the Chicago Times-Herald.


SUGGESTIVE PLAN FOR BETTERMENT
				WORK.
1. Organization:
(a) A Central Betterment Committee—
	composed of six members, three from
	the Relief Society and three from the
	Y. L. M. I. A., appointed by the
	Presidents of the two General
	Boards.
(b) A Stake Betterment Committee—
	composed of four members, selected
	by the Stake Presidents of the two
	organizations and appointed by the
	Stake Priesthood President.
(c) Ward Missionaries—one or two se-
	lected by the Stake Committee, the
	Bishop and Presidents of the two
	local organizations.
2. The Work—Preventive:
Aims—To bring indifferent parents and
	their children into the organizations
	that will bring the spirit of the Gos-
	pel into their hearts and homes.
		To impress parents with the sacred
	duties and responsibilities of parent-
	hood.
		To encourage the downcast, stim-
	ulate the indifferent and reclaim the
	wayward.
3. Qualifications of the Workers:
	The Spirit of the Work—Wisdom—
	Spirituality — Charity — Patience —
	Love—Tact.
4. Duties of Missionaries:
	Keep in close touch with the Relief
	Society and Y. L. M. I. A. Visit
	homes. Hold neighborhood meet-
	ings, and labor unceasingly with
	great love, and much patience for
	the betterment of the home and its
	inmates.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	Semi-annual conference of Liberty stake
Relief Society convened in Ninth ward
meeting house July 26 at 10 a. m. and 2
p. m., President Anna S. Musser presiding.
At the morning session we had with us
General President Emmeline B. Wells,
Sarah J. Cannon of the General Board, and
C. W. Symons of Liberty stake High Coun-
cil. After opening exercises and address of
welcome by President Musser, the names
of the General Board, also of the stake
board, were unanimously sustained. The
statistical and financial report for 1911 was
read and accepted. After a solo by Sister
Eva James, the First, Second, Third, Eighth
and Ninth wards were favorably reported,
showing them to be in the line of their duty.
Leah Rigby and Dorothy Weiler favored
us with a duet. Sister Sarah J. Cannon
urged all to subscribe for the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT; said the suggestions in the EX-
PONENT would be of great benefit to the
societies, encouraged all to be humble and
prayerful and do our best at all times.
General President Emmeline B. Wells re-
lated incidents encountered in her numerous
travels and spoke of reports received from
foreign branches; said she had received
more benefit from Relief Society work than
from any other source. Elder C. W. Sy-
mons spoke for a few moments on the ob-
servance of the Sabbath and visiting the
sick and aged. After closing exercises, ad-
journed until 2 o’clock. Lunch was served
to all present during the noon recess.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock with
President Emmeline B. Wells, Sarah J.
Cannon and Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the
General Board, Elders C. W. Symons and
T. H. Wooley of Liberty stake High Coun-
cil and all of stake board on the stand.
After opening exercises and address of wel-
come by Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley, Sis-
ter Julia P. M. Farnsworth delivered a lec-
ture on “Home, Its Necessities and Envi-
ronments,” which was timely and listened to
with interest. A solo entitled. “Trusting,”
was rendered by Sister Eva James. Presi-
dent Emmeline B. Wells said the seeds of
love, wisdom and kindness were very
marked in the Relief Society; testified of the
Prophet Joseph and his divine mission;
realized and could see the development and
the good which would be accomplished by
this organization; encouraged us in doing
good and keeping the commandments of
God, and gave us many other instructions.
Sister Maud Kenner rendered a solo. Sister
Sarah J. Cannon felt that this is a time of
progression, and we want to go on to per-
fection, especially in the work that we were
sent here to do; spoke of taking care of
wheat and storing for times of emergency;
exhorted all to remain faithful to the end.
President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to make
our conference a success. After the solo,
“God Be with Us Till We Meet Again,” by
Sister Eva James, and benediction by Sister
Sarah Swift, adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.

			NEBO STAKE.
	Relief Society conference held June 28,
1912, at Payson. After the opening exer-
cises Sister Martha S. Kapple made re-
marks concerning the good work the sisters

[Column 2]
of the Relief Society, were doing: also gave
the statistical and financial report of the
stake for 1911. President Eliza J. Dixon
said she felt very proud of the Nebo stake
Relief Society; all the sisters were always
so willing to help in every way; was very
much pleased to have President Emmeline
B. Wells and Sister Alice Merrill Horne
with us, addressed the conference in a very
pleasing manner. Sister Martha Simons ad-
dressed the sisters, said she had been a mem-
ber of the Church for 75 years and was very
pleased to be able to say a few words to the
sisters of the Relief Society. Sister Wells
next addressed the sisters of the conference,
made excellent remarks on charity; spoke
of the early organization of the Relief So-
ciety and the work the sisters were doing;
said now there were 50 organizations of the
Relief Society in Great Britain and there
were organizations throughout the world,
so that the sun never sets on the Relief So-
ciety organizations; 40,000 or 45,000 women
were engaged in this great work founded
by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Sister M. A.
Hardy made remarks in regard to WOMAN’S
EXPONENT; advised sisters to take this
paper. Recitation, Lucile Johnson, “In the
Signal Box.” After singing and prayer ad-
journed until 1:30 p. m.
	Conference reconvened at 1:30 p. m.
After opening exercises the conference was
addressed by Jonathan S. Page of Nebo
stake, who made many encouraging remarks
to the sisters in regard to Relief Society
work. Song by Sister Hattie S. Wride,
“Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd.” Sis-
ter Emmeline B. Wells addressed the con-
ference; felt pleased to be able to speak
to the sisters; said the Relief Society was
the greatest organization of women in the
world; would like to have all the societies
have a library; also when any work is done
to do it all in unison; also related her early
experience in the Church and how she be-
came acquainted with the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Sister Alice Merrill Horen made
some remarks in regard to beautifying our
homes. Sister Eliza J. Dixon asked if there
were any in the audience who had ever seen
the Prophet Joseph Smith and there were
four who stood up. Sister Amy Hancock
was proud to know that she had seen the
Prophet, and made very interesting remarks
in regard to her early experiences in the
Church. Bishop Loveless made a few re-
marks and highly complimented the Relief
Society sisters in their noble work. Presi-
dent Hyrum Lemmon explained how the
Relief Society was organized. Recitation,
Sister Alice Bale, “The Sale.” After clos-
ing remarks by Sister Eliza Dixon confer-
ence adjourned for three months. Singing
of doxology, and prayer by Francis M.
Elmer.
			MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Malad
stake, held June 30, 1912, convened in the
stake building according to appointment
with President Eliza A. Hall presiding. We
were honored with a visit from General
President E. B. Wells and Sister McClelland
from Salt Lake City; President Wm. H.
Richards, Wm. H. Gibbs and L. D. Jones of
the stake presidency, members of the high
council, bishops of wards, presidents of the
various wards of Relief Society, etc. Meet-
ing opened by singing “Our Mountain
Home So Dear.” Prayer was offered by


[Column 1]
Bishop John F. Conley of Portage. The
congregation sang “Come, Come, Ye
Saints.” Minutes of last conference read
and approved. President Eliza A. Hall
made opening remarks, bidding all a hearty
welcome to our meeting. Reports were
given by Malad, Holbrook and Pleasant
View wards, all in unity and enjoying the
Relief Society work. A recitation was ren-
dered by Sister Maud Chidester entitled,
“A Mother’s Only Son.” President E. B.
Wells was delighted to be in attendance at
the Malad Relief Society conference; spoke
of the reports against the Latter-day Saints
by those not of our faith; there never was a
greater prophet than Joseph Smith; spoke
on the wheat question and care of the grain
belonging to the Relief Society; obedience,
love, and charity were some of the subjects
spoken on by our gifted sister. A song was
sung by a Lamanite sister from Washakie
association. Sister McClelland of the Gen-
eral Board spoke of the grand work accom-
plished by the Relief sisters; told of her
missionary labors, and of the truth of the
Book of Mormon. After singing and bene-
diction conference adjourned until 2 o’clock
p. m. Lunch was then served to all by the
sisters of Malad.
	At 2 p. m. conference convened in the
tabernacle with President Eliza A. Hall pre-
siding. Prayer by Brother David Thomas.
Singing, “O Happy Home.” Mrs. Katie
Jones of St. John favored us with a solo.
Sister Sarah McClelland of Salt Lake City
was delighted with our lovely homes in
Malad; spoke of our duties as Relief So-
ciety workers, and the many blessings we
enjoy. A song by Sister Amy Randall of
Malad was beautifully rendered. President
William H. Richards was well pleased with
the labors of the Relief Society; spoke of
the noble work of the women of Zion. Or-
gan solo by J. G. Barret of Salt Lake City
was then given. President E. B. Wells had
long wished to visit with the good people of
Malad; was well paid for coming; advised
having a library in the Relief Society;
spoke of her acquaintance with the
prophet Joseph Smith, and of her experi-
ence in Nauvoo at the time of the martyr-
dom of Joseph and Hyrum. We were then
favored with a piano solo from D. E. John-
son of Malad. President Eliza A. Hall
thanked all that had helped to make our
conference such a grand success, and prayed
that all would feel benefited by coming to
conference. After singing and prayer, con-
ference adjourned for three months.
			ELIZA A. HALL, Pres.
			ELIZABETH JONES, Sec.

		OGDEN STAKE. 
	The annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Ogden stake was held July 19,
1912, in the Relief Society hall, at Ogden,
Utah. Two sessions were held, beginning
at 10:30 a. m. and at 2 p. m., the noon re-
cess being spent in partaking of a luncheon,
prepared by the sisters of the eighth ward,
and in hand-shaking and social intercourse.
	On the stand were Sisters Phoebe Y.
Beattie and Carrie S. Thomas of the Gen-
eral Relief Society Board, Patriarch David
McKay, assistant stake chorister Arthur G.
Berrett, Elder Wm. Pickett, the stake presi-
dency of the Relief Society and the entire
stake board and a goodly number of local
officers, also Sister Pearl Jones of the stake
presidency of the Y. L. M. I. A. President

[Column 2]
Sarah W. Taylor of the stake presidency of
the Relief Society presided and conducted
the exercises. After the usual opening ex-
ercises reports of the work being accom-
plished in the local associations were given.
Nine associations were thus reported. Sister
Beattie expressed her pleasure in the re-
ports as given and especially with the inter-
est being awakened in regard to attend-
ance at sacrament meetings; this is surely
commendable and must result in good, for
it is in these meetings that we receive spir-
itual strength; spoke on temple and genea-
logical work, the necessity of and blessings
attendant on the same; referred to the lives
and work of Susan B. Anthony and Clara
Barton; also touched upon parliamentary
law and our need of observing the same.
Sister Carrie S. Thomas felt it a joy to be
present; the thought development on the
song had found a response in her heart and
she felt that it would result in a better un-
derstanding of our songs, and that we
would sing with the heart as well as the
voice; referred to testimony bearing as be-
ing faith promoting and urged the young to
attend the Relief Society meetings and
learn from the mothers and grandmothers.
Elder Arthur Berrett said it was his first
visit to the Relief Society and would be
counted as one of his most pleasant as well
as profitable days and he felt to say, “God
bless the Relief Society, and sanctify all
that has been said this day to our use.”
Sister Pearl Jones of the Y. L. M. I. A.
always felt stronger and more capable of
performing her work by being associated
with the Relief Society and she felt it an
honor to be in our conference. All the
teachings given were timely and the spirit
of the conference was such as to inspire to
greater diligence and determination, our
visiting sisters being filled with words of
counsel and cheer. Solos by the brethren
and a recitation by one of our sisters were
features that added to the enjoyment of the
occasion, and these added to the good coun-
sel given made it a day to be remembered.
		NELLIE BECRAFT, Secretary.

		SNOWFLAKE STAKE. 
	The annual Relief Society conference of
the Snowflake stake of Zion convened at
Taylor Relief Society hall Aug. 30, 1912.
On the stand were First Counselor
Clarissa S. Williams, Romania B. Pen-
rose of the General Board, Alice K.
Smith and Mary E. Connelly of the
General Board of Y. L. M. I. A.,
all members of the stake board and presi-
dents of several of the different wards.
President Nellie M. Smith presided. After
the opening exercises President Nellie M.
Smith made a brief speech of welcome.
Written reports were read from the wards,
also verbal reports were given by three
ward presidents. A sketch of the lessons
as outlined by the stake board was given,
the lessons consisting of three divisions—
Book of Mormon, Literary and Character
department. Sister Williams treated very
beautifully the following topics: The work
of the Relief Society teachers, which call-
ing is, indeed, sacred; storing of food prod-
ucts, admitting non-Latter-day Saints into
the Relief Society, the public health condi-
tions, the preparation of temple clothing.
Sister Penrose, Smith and Connelly all en-
larged upon the above topics. Piano solo
rendered by Miss Dora Palmer.

[Column 3]
	Afternoon Session, 2 p. m.—Opened at
the Taylor ward meeting house. We were
favored with the presence of Apostle Hy-
rum M. Smith and Elder Rulon S. Wells of
the Seven Presidents of Seventies, all the
stake presidency, members of the High
Council and bishops of several wards. After
opening exercises President Nellie M. Smith
gave a general report of the nine Relief
Societies of the stake; thanked all who had
contributed so freely to the Sarah Driggs
monument fund and to the refugees of
Mexico. An excellent paper on “Why
Parents Should Guard the Play of Their
Children” was read by Sister Laura Baird.
Song, The Hall Sisters. Sister Romania
B. Penrose talked on the rearing of chil-
dren and Relief Society work. Sister Clar-
issa S. Williams spoke on the following sub-
jects: good reading, respecting the rights
of others and the many duties of Relief So-
ciety members. Apostle Hyrum M. Smith
impressed the need of mothers belonging to
the Relief Society; talked at length on
health conditions. Brother Rulon S. Wells
also treated the following subjects: health
and sanitary conditions, the great work of
the Prophet Joseph Smith in organizing the
Relief Society, the broad field of labor for
woman and the influence for good she has.
President Samuel F. Smith congratulated
the sisters on their work and thanked them
for the help they had given in the stake.
	Evening Session—The ladies of the Re-
lief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary
met in the Relief Society hall Saturday
evening, Aug. 31, 1912, with a large attend-
ance of officers and visitors. All were wel-
comed by President Nellie M. Smith. Sis-
ter Clarissa S. Williams gave some very
good advice on different topics, mentioning
the great qualities of President Emmeline
B. Wells. Sisters Alice K. Smith and Mary
E. Connelly talked to the girls present, also
encouraged the mothers. Sister Romania
B. Penrose gave a very excellent lecture on
health. A good spirit was enjoyed through-
out the conference and the teachings will
be of profit to us.
			MAUD F. RAMSAY, Sec.

		UINTAH STAKE.
	The Uinta stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held in the Uintah stake taber-
nacle July 28, 1912, commencing at 10 a. m.
President Nancy A. Colton presiding.
Those of the Priesthood present were Stake
President Don B. Colton and Counselors
Earnest Eaton and David Bennion, Patri-
arch Nelson Merkley, High Councilor Jas.
M. Shaffer, Stake Clerk Geo. A. Davis and
several others; Sisters Rebecca N. Nibley
and Elizabeth S. Wilcox of the General
Board, all members of stake board. After
opening exercises President Nancy A. Col-
ton welcomed the brethren and sisters; she
also reported the stake Relief Society. Mrs.
Mary H. Stringham gave a report of the
general Relief Society work. Solo by Elder
Ashley Bartlett accompanied by Miss Jennie
Beers. Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox from Salt
Lake City felt well in meeting with the
Relief Society sisters; related many circum-
stances where people had been benefited by
prayer; gave advice on mothers’ work, es-
pecially sanitation; spoke of the difficulties
of settling new countries and of what the
people of this valley have had to pass
through; referred to the great work the
Relief Society sisters are doing to help


build Church schools and academies; urged
all to do their duty. Mrs. Aretta Sainsberry
gave a lecture on sanitation, explained how
malaria was carried by the mosquito, also
how flies carried diseases from different
places, told how babies should be protected
from flies, cautioned nurses to be very care-
ful about spreading disease, also children
exchanging books, paper and pencils, also
spoke of the public drinking cup. Mrs. Re-
becca N. Nibley was pleased to meet the
brethren and sisters; spoke of her travels
into this valley; gave Sister Emmeline B.
Wells’ best wishes and respects to the sis-
ters; spoke of storing grain, said there
should be a stake granary; spoke of temple
clothing. The mission had been given Gen-
eral Board to keep temple clothing, to sell,
hire or loan when called upon. We also have
been called on to furnish linen for the Lat-
ter-day Saints hospital; spoke of the sisters
supporting the EXPONENT; was pleased to
see so many young sisters at the meeting;
urged the teachers to do their duty; urged
the sisters to be kind to their husbands and
help them; you can be kind in the home;
spoke of mothers taking care of their boys
as well as girls, be patient with them, teach
them to pay their tithes and offerings. Sing-
ing, “Our Mountain Home So Dear.” Ben-
ediction by Elder Geo. E. Wilkins.
	Afternoon Session—Opened by the con-
gregation singing “For the Strength of the
Hills.” Prayer by Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett.
Singing “If You Could Hie to Kolob.”
Roll call showed 7 stake officers, 18 ward
officers, 88 members present. General and
local officers were then sustained. Song by
Rathera Young and Mina Pack. Mrs. Eliz-
abeth S. Wilcox was pleased with the re-
ports she had heard since she had been here;
urged the sisters to come to Relief Society
meetings, especially the young mothers;
spoke of the good the sisters do in time of
sickness; compared the dress in the early
days of the Church and the dress of today;
spoke of the foolish fashions; also of prayer
and the temptations that are thrown in our
way. Recitation by Miss Zora Colton. Mrs.
Rebecca N. Nibley was pleased to meet the
brethren and sisters again; spoke of faith,
by faith there have been many things done;
she related a circumstance that happened
while she was in Rotterdam where a little
boy received his sight through faith; she
also spoke of the power of prayer; referred
to some of the mobbings in Missouri (in the
early days of the Church); said cling to our
children be patient with them. President
Don B. Colton said his soul had been
touched as no doubt many of you have
been; spoke of some of the statistics in the
Church, also the faith we should try and
instill into our children; spoke of the time
when the Prophet Joseph Smith was in-
spired to organize the Relief Society, and of
mothers taking care of their daughters,
show them the dangers they are apt to en-
counter. Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett thanked
(in behalf of stake board) all that had
helped to make this conference a success.
Mrs. Nancy A. Colton made a few closing
remarks, after which conference adjourned
for three months.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The Genealogical Society has resumed its 
monthly historical meetings, which are ex-
ceedingly beneficial and helpful as well as 
interesting.


OLD MOTHERS. 
I love old mothers—mothers with white hair
And kindly eyes, and lips grown softly sweet
With murmured blessings over sleeping babes.
There is a something in their quiet grace
That speaks the calm of Sabbath afternoons;
A knowledge in their deep, unfaltering eyes
That far outreaches all philosophy.
Time, with caressing touch, about them weaves
The silver-threaded fairy-shawl of age,
While all the echoes of forgotten songs
Seem joined to lend a sweetness to their
	speech.
Old mothers! as they pass with slow-timed
	step,
Their trembling hands cling gently to youth’s
	strength;
Sweet mothers! as they pass, one sees again
Old garden walks, old roses, and old loves.
						—The Century.


IN MEMORIAM.
	In memory of our beloved president,
Charlotte A. Hollands, who passed away at
her home in Roy, Sept. 9, 1912, age 51
years. In being called upon to part with
Sister Hollands, we realize that a very dear
friend has been taken away from our midst;
one who was always ready to help to com-
fort, or to contribute of her means for the
benefit of others. We feel to bow in humility
to the will of the Lord, but oh how we miss
her kind hand and her gentle presence, her
word of kindness and the spirit accompany-
ing it. Her seat in our meeting is empty,
her prayers and testimony will be heard no
more in our midst, but the work she has
done, and the blessings she has bestowed
upon her sisters, will be long remembered.
	She has finished her work and gone to
rest, leaving a faithful husband and two
daughters to mourn her loss, and we realize
that her loss leaves a vacancy in our hearts
that will not be filled until we meet her in
that home, where there is no sorrow and
where parting never comes.
	Whereas, Her position as president in the
Relief Society for 13 years makes it fitting
for us to record our appreciation of her un-
tiring labors,
	Resolved, That in our natural sorrow for
her death we find consolation in the knowl-
edge that all is well with her. She was pre-
pared to enter the realms of our Father.
	Resolved, That a copy be presented to the
family and a copy recorded in the records
of this Society.

How tender she was at the couch of pain,
	How willing her sisters to bless.
The poor felt her liberal hand,
	Her works were of righteousness.
Her counsels were fraught with wisdom,
	Her teachings were full of love,
Her example will bear fruition,
	That will follow her above.
					ELIZABETH V. JONES,
					JULIA E. GARNER,
					MARY E. DALTON.


An order from Virginia for eighty thou-
sand leaflets, recently received by the liter-
ature department of the National Suffrage
Association, is one of the straws showing
which way the wind blows in the South in
these piping times of votes for women.


The late Cardinal Vaughan, Archbishop
of Westminster, when asked his views on
woman suffrage, replied: “I believe that
the extension of the Parliamentary fran-
chise to women upon the same conditions as
it is held by men would be a just and ben-
eficial measure, tending to raise rather than
lower the course of national legislation.”


CAKE WITHOUT EGGS.
	1 1/2 cups of apple sauce, strained and
sweetened.
	1 cup of sugar.
	2 of flour.
	1 cup fruit and nuts.
	1/2 cup of butter.
	1 tablespoon hot water.
	2 teaspoonsfull of soda
	1 teaspoonfull of cinnamon.
	1 teaspoonfull of cloves.
	This recipe makes a very delicious and
inexpensive cake.

		PICKLED GRAPES.
	Put a layer of grapes in a jar; cover with
a large handfull of sugar, then another
layer of grapes, then sugar, and so on un-
til the jar is filled. Take enough vinegar
to cover grapes, sweeten and spice to taste,
boil twenty minutes, and put away to cool.
When cold, pour over grapes. A few bay
leaves improves flavor.

				MAP
	FOR BOOK OF MORMON STUDY
			By Vincy R. Barker.
	Prepared Especially for Relief Society Classes
		Approved by the General Board

	Designed to give the student a general view
and lasting impression of Book of Mormon
lands from the beginning of Nephite and Jar-
edite history at Jerusalem and Babylon, Asia,
to their close in America.
	With the arrangement of the map of the
World with the Western Hemisphere at the
right we see at once all the countries and the
leading cities involved in Book of Mormon and
early Church history.
	Because of the uncertainty and difference of
opinion existing in regard to the location of
Book of Mormon points only such locations
are made as our leading Book of Mormon stu-
dents seem to harmonize upon, leaving teach-
ers to make minor locations for their own use
according to their own interpretation of the
text.
	Listed upon the map are:
	1st. Authority for all locations made.
	2nd. Under the name of their respective
countries all the cities not located with their
reference in the text and date of first mention.
	3rd. The Hills with reference.
	Large size 24x35 inch, cloth, mounted, $2.00,
per dozen, $20.00.
	Small size, 10x15 inch, paper, 15 cents, per
dozen, $1.25. 
	Special terms to Stakes desiring to place
small ones in their outlines and large ones in
Ward Societies.
			VINCY R. BARKER
1144 Washington Ave.			Ogden, Utah
                
R K. THOMAS CO., 67-69 MAIN STREET,
					SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices.	.	.	.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman's Relief Society.

