Vol. 41.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1913		No. 11.


CONTENTS.
Aunt Esther’s Sweetheart...........................	73
Relief Society Reports:
	Uintah Stake.......................................	79
	San Xuis Stake....................................	80
Editorial:
	The Monument to the Gulls................	76
	General Relief Society Conference.....	77
	Correspondence...................................	79
Notes.......................................................75,	80
Poetry:
	The White Rose...Annie Wells Cannon	7[-]
	Earth-Mother.....Queenie Scott-Hopper	75


THE WHITE ROSE.
In the hush of the night I wandered
	Through my garden, I love so well,
In the lush of the grass I lingered,
	While the dew on the flowers fell.
Faint odors of violets, and blue bells,
	And delicate white-rose breath
Enshrined me, while in the starlight
	I mused on the mystery of death.
There are beautiful things in my garden,
	Some tender and young, and some old.
Graceful trees, sturdy shrubs,
	Bright flowers, red, purple and gold;
But of all the fair things around me
	My tenderest thoughts to disclose,
The sweetest, and dearest, believe me,
	Is the tall, frail and fragrant white rose.
A loved one that day had departed,
	A maiden most fair to behold
Had answered the call of the master,
	Had entered the heavenly fold.
The hearts that had known and loved her,
	Were stricken with grief and despair,
In the darkness of sorrow were wandering,
	Where asking the why? and the where?
With the shadows of darkness around me
	In the stillness of night’s repose,
A glorious star fell before me
	And lighted my path to the rose.
Then an angel appeared in my garden,
	And all was a luminous light,
For the veil from my eyelids was lifted,
	Held back were the curtains of night.
Twas a morning of glory celestial!
	And there in God’s garden sublime,
Were gathered the souls of the mortals
	I had known through my own life-time.
Then the voice of the angel addressed me,
	“Men, women and children behold!
And here, is the tender white maiden,
	Most precious of all in the fold.”
Men live out their own destination
	Complete, when called to their rest,
And children, not knowing temptation,
	Return with the just and the blest;
But the youth, and the maiden most precious,
	Something give of the sweetness of life,
Then are lost to the world and its sorrows,
	Its struggles, its pain, and its strife.
And there, in God’s heavenly garden,
	Sweet peace and love’s fragrance disclose!
Just as here, .’mong these beautiful flowers,
	Lives the tenderly treasured—white rose.
				ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


[Column 1]
	AUNT ESTHER’S SWEETHEART.
			(CONCLUDED.)
	Meantime both Aunt Esther and Alice
wrote to Harry of the religion they had em-
braced; they were full of zeal and desirous
that he should become a convert. But he
was at that time under quite a different in-
fluence; and his answers to their letters were

[Column 2]
very unsatisfactory; but they did not lose
courage. Alice was using all her eloquence
at home to persuade Richard Ashburn to
join the Church of Latter-day Saints, and
her efforts were not in vain. Before many
days she had the satisfaction of knowing
that he had esqoused the same religious
faith.
	Of all those who had been converted
Aunt Esther was really the most zealous
and content. Heretofore she had not been
religiously inclined, but she had had many
msigivings with regard to a step she ever
contemplated taking, though she had main-
tained her reputation and escaped almost
miraculously from falling into disgrace.
She knew, as no one else did, or could
know, how she had been tempted to leave
her husband’s house forever, and go into a
foreign land with the man she loved, with
all the fervor of youthful attachment, but
whom her parents had not allowed her to
marry. He had come to her at a time when
she had felt the most desperate, had read
her heart, when her whole soul revolted
against the bondage she was undergoing,
and urged her to fly with him; and she had
even tried to persuade herself that the step
Sidney Manning entreated her to take, was
no more a sin in the sight of heaven, than
the domestic life she was compelled to live,
with the husband to whom she was bound
by marriage vows. Some good angel stood
by her then, and at the last moment, as it
were, when all had been cautiously arranged
and her lover was waiting in anxious ex-
pectancy, she finally resolved to preserve her
honor and that of her husband, and remain
true to her womanhood, and to her mar-
riage vows and suffer wrong, rather than
commit an act that would forever debar her
from associations of the friends she loved;
and an error, too, which to her now thor-
oughly awakened consciousness of its gross
wickedness, she felt sure would end in de-
spair and hopeless degradation. And as a
last resort she sent her faithful maid alone,
in the dead silence of the night, to tell her
old sweetheart that she could not consent
to go with him, and he must never attempt
to see her again. Poor Polly, she never
dared to tell her mistress all the dreadful
things Sidney Manning said, there in the
darkness, when she delivered her message.
And so that part of the romance ended, and
he went far away, and finally secured a
position in a mercantile house in India, and
amassed wealth, for it was the lack of riches
that had deprived him of his darling Esther,
and he was determined to accumulate means
enough to make her a home suited to her
circumstances, should she ever be free again
to choose for herself. And he would wait
until that time came, always believing in
her affection and trusting in his knowledge
of her character. He esteemed her far
more for the sacrifice she made in giving
him up, when in his mistaken sense of right
he would have stolen another man’s wife.
She had saved herself and him, too, and
when far away from her in a foreign land,
and meditating upon her loveliness of char-

[Column 3]
acter, he could appreciate the strength and
fortitude she manifested in withstanding
the great temptation.
	When Sidney Manning heard of the sud-
den death of Esther’s husband, he had mas-
tered his feelings to such an extent that he
did not rejoice; and he waited on, wonder-
ing if she would make any sign to him, any
recognition of her first promise that she had
never redeemed. But she did not, she was
too proud for that, and the impulsive girl
had changed into a well-developed woman.
So after a time he wrote, and Esther Dan-
forth took months to deliberate before re-
plying; and when she did write, was care-
ful not to make any sort of compromise.
Had it not been for the thrilling episode in
their lives, that came near ending in a trag-
edy, she would have acted differently; now
she was doubly reserved. Bye and bye, he
wrote again, then she said, “Wait,” and he
had waited long enough, he thought, for her,
and too long, by far, for him.
	One morning at breakfast time, Uncle
William handed Aunt Esther a letter, in
Polly’s handwriting, which gave her no con-
cern, but as she opened it, another letter fell
out upon the table. Alice caught it up think-
ing it might be for her, but Esther had seen
the name, and knew instantly that it was
from her old sweetheart.
	“Excuse me, Aunt Esther,” said Alice, “it
is for you after all, but such a peculiar hand,
looks like foreign paper; but there’s no post-
mark. There must be visitors at the
Wren’s Nest—what does Polly say?”
	There was no help for it, Aunt Esther
must answer, her face was flushing she
knew and, trying to be as calm as possible,
turning to her sister, who was eyeing her
very closely, she stammered out, “Sidney—
Mr. Manning—I mean, he’s returned from
abroad.”
	“And pray who is Sidney—Mr. Manning,
Auntie?”
	Before she could reply, Aunt Jane had
spoken for her,
	“Your Aunt Esther’s old sweetheart
Alice!”
	Mrs. Danforth protested and blushed a
deeper crimson; but the secret was out nev-
ertheless, and Alice was delighted.
	“O, that’s what Polly meant when she
said you had a romance in your life.”
	“What can Polly know of my sister’s
sweetheart? She was nothing but a child
when this affair with Sidney Manning oc-
curred, that was why we all called him
Esther’s sweetheart. Father and mother
didn’t approve of children being engaged,
and broke the matter off, and my sister was
sent away from home to cure her. But I
always had an idea it was a kind of hope-
less case, for he never married, at least we
never heard of it, and as for Esther, she is
blushing to the very tips of her ears, for all
the world like a young girl of 16, and she’s
six and thirty.”
	“Isn’t it enough to make any one blush,
to have such things repeated in one’s pres-
ence. I wish Sidney Manning had stayed
in India.”


[Column 1]
	“In India, Auntie, well if that isn’t fine, a
rich uncle from India for the holidays after
all. Can’t you invite him to come here,
Aunt Jane?”
	That must be as my sister Esther says,”
she replied. “I should like it very much.”
	“He is not your uncle, Alice,” said Aunt
Esther, “and it’s very improper for you to
call him so, and your Aunt Jane’s house is
full of visitors already.”
	At this Alice subsided for a few moments,
but there was very little breakfast eaten by
any of the ladies that morning. Aunt Jane
recalled one remembrance after another, of
the days when Esther was a child, and it
was all very interesting for the young folks.
Alice declared it was just what she always
had thought, from fragments Polly had
dropped now and then, though how she had
found it out no one could tell, and now it
had come out accidentally and just what
she had begged Aunt Esther to tell her
about herself.
	The party Aunt Jane had intended to give
in honor of her visitors, had been postponed
from one time to another on some pretext,
and the night before the arrival of Aunt
Esther’s queer letter, the host and hostess
had come to the conclusion it should come
off on Christmas eve; it was to have been
discussed at the breakfast table when all the
family were together, but the unfortunate
letter had put it entirely out of Aunt Jane’s
mind, and upon rising from the table Aunt
Esther had gone to her room, presumably
to read her letter from home. Poor Aunt
Esther, here was another dilemma. Polly
wrote that Mr. Manning had come uncere-
moniously to the Wren’s Nest, and finding
Mrs. Danforth absent, had inquired of her
whether her mistress had received a foreign
letter recently; and she had answered truth-
fully that she had; then he wanted to know
if any message had been left for him, and
she told him there was none. Next, when
she had gone, and when she was expected
home. She had gone to M—, in Frank-
lin County, to her sister’s, Mrs. Wetherell,
and as to her return, it was indefinite. Then
Polly said, “he asked me to let him write a
letter, and would I write one and enclose it
in mine, and I hope, my dear mistress, you
will not be offended, for he seemed so sad
an disappointed that you were not here,”
and having ,finished Polly’s letter, which
contained little else, Esther Danforth broke
the seal of the other. There is always a
sort of charm about a pretty seal and it adds
to the interest of a letter’s contents. But
this letter was a “love letter,” indeed. He
accused her of running away from him and
warned her that he should follow her to the
ends of the earth, if need be: reminded her
of walks and rambles they had taken to-
gether in the beautiful past, and of the
kisses he had stolen from her sweet lips.
He seemed to have forgotten that she was
a matronly woman now, and he no longer
the young lover, nor the “little sweetheart.”
The longer Esther stayed and pondered
over the letter, the more bewildered she
grew. She could not see him there, it would
be worse than being at home; there, so many
would not be looking on.
	She had half a mind to pack her trunk
and go back, but that seemed impracticable;
and wavering between this and that, she
knelt and prayed for wisdom. A sweet
peace came with the prayer and she joined
the family group in the sitting room. Alice
explained, as soon as her aunt came in:

[Column 2]
	“Aunt Jane will write for Mr. Manning
to come this very day—but even then he
can’t reach here for the party.”
	“Have you any objections, Esther?” her
sister inquired.
	“Just as you please, Jane, but remember
this is your invitation, not mine,” said
Esther emphatically. The letter was dis-
patched, and Alice was eager to see what
this old sweetheart of her auntie’s was like.
and asked numerous questions; but as no
one knew much more than she did, she did
not get much of an idea. Anut Jane had said
though, that to the best of her recollection
he had a very fine figure and a handsome
face.
	Christmas eve came, and the house was
profusely decorated, for the party was to
be quite an elaborate affair for the country
town, and everyone seemed in the gayest of
spirits, except Aunt Esther, who went from
room to room, seemingly without any object
in view. Later on in the evening, when all
the guests had arrived, and the refreshments
had been served and abundantly partaken
of, a sharp ring from the old-fashioned
knocker, vibrated through the house, and
startled the company. “Who can it be at
this late hour?” said two or three in a
breath but they had not long to wait. A
stranger muffled to the chin in furs, and
covered with snow, stood in the hallway;
and in every adjacent doorway, the guests
crowded to see the newcomer. Mr. Weth-
erell guesed who he was and took him into
his, room, a sort of office, or what now-a-
days would be styled, a den. Some ex-
planations were made by the stranger and
he excused himself for being muffled, by
saying he had been so long accustomed to
a hot climate. Mr. Wetherell treated his
guest to refreshments and after partaking
coffee, etc., he was introduced to the com-
pany assembled there, as an old-time friend
of the hostess. This was a great relief to
Aunt Esther when she heard of it, after-
wards; as she was suffering, meantime, not
knowing what excuse had been made for
his unexpected appearance.
	Mr. Manning was very affable and digni-
fied in manner, and a perfect master of lan-
guage in conversation. His extensive travels
abroad had given him ease and grace in
society, and he took “the castle by storm,”
so to speak. The girls were charmed with
him and the young men were gracious and
deferential. Little he cared for all the re-
spect lavished upon him, from these warm-
hearted country people; he had only eyes
and ears for one, his lost Esther. And she
was nowhere to be seen, she had fled to her
room at the sound of his voice; she could
not meet him in the presence of others.
Finally the music ceased, and the dancers
stepped from the scene of the festivity and
rejoicing, and the family gathered around
the great blazing fire. The night was cold,
and the wind howled outside, and yet within
there was peace and hospitality and good
cheer. When the young people had left the
room, Sidney Manning ventured to inquire
of Jane, whom he had known well twenty
years ago, where her sister Mrs. Danforth
was keeping herself, while all the jollifica-
tion was going on.
	“She is very nervous tonight,” Jane re-
plied, “and extremely sensitive. She cannot
endure much excitement and retired to her
room sometime since.”
	“Indeed,” replied the gentleman, “and
shall I not be able to see her until tomorrow?

[Column 3]
and I have come so far across the sea, and
up here into these rocky hills, for that one
purpose. I must see her for a few mo-
ments; she must not refuse me will you in-
tercede for me Jane? You, who have lived
such peaceful, quiet lives, know little of the
turbulent restlessness of one tossed upon the
fateful sea of uncertainty at one moment
ready to sink, and then a fair sail in sight,
taking courage once more.”
	Mrs. Wetherell’s heart was touched with
compassion, and she promised to try and
persuade Esther to meet him that night, or
morning, for it was now past midnight.
Jane was as good as her word. She en-
treated Esther to see him for a few minutes,
if the hour was even so late; it would be a
pleasure for him.
	“Jane,” said the woman in pitying tones,
“you are mistaken; he will be disappointed;
he thinks to find me the romantic girl he left
when he went away. I am old beyond my
years, and I shall not please his fastidious
taste. It will only be a trial for me, that I
shrink from enduring.”
	“Oh, Esther, do go and let him see that
you are not afraid to meet him.”
	“Yes, Jane; I will go,” said Esther, “for I
am not a moral coward.” And she went
down, as calm and placid as a summer
morning.
	Mr. and Mrs. Wetherell left them to meet
alone, and Aunt Esther walked quietly into
the great, old-fashioned parlor to meet her
fate—her old sweetheart, expecting, she
knew not what sort of reception. But he,
hearing her soft footfall, turned quickly and
reached out his strong arms and clasped her
to his bosom, ere she had time to elude his
grasp. Neither spoke for some minutes, for
their silence was more eloquent than speech,
however daintily fashioned. At last Sidney
Manning repeated her name, but she an-
swered not. “Esther,” said he again, “we
meet once more, and we are both free. I
have waited long for this meeting; have you
nothing to say to me after all these long
years of constancy?”
	Esther felt there was a barrier, even now,
but she could not introduce the subject to-
night—it was too late to enter upon untrod-
den ground. So she only said, in the most
indifferent tone, “You must be very weary,
and my brother-in-law is waiting to show,
you to your room; tomorrow we shall have
time to renew our acquaintance; good night,
Sidney,” and she hurried from the room.
He stood by the mantel and leaned his head
upon his hand in a maze of bewilderment.
He was as much in doubt whether she loved
him or not as any young, inexperienced boy
could be. And yet she did love him pas-
sionately, but she kept the secret in her own
soul, woman-like, determined to prove him,
though she might stake her all of earthly
happiness and find herself the loser.
	During the following day and days after,
Mr. Wetherell opened up conversation with
his guest upon “Mormonism,” of which he
confessed he had never heard before, nor of
Joseph Smith, nor the Book of Mormon; he
was indifferent, he acknowledged, to all re-
ligions. He had busied himself with men,
money and schemes to accumulate wealth
while abroad, and left religion for an after
consideration. Such is the way of the world
in all ages, except in rare instances.
	Esther heard his remarks without com-
ment, but feared a wide gulf was opening
between them, which it would be difficult to
bridge; and she became more and more


[Column 1]
reticent in conversing with him. At present
Sidney Manning was bent on making love
to Esther—the young and fascinating
widow—and she was mistaken when she
told her sister on his arrival that he would
be disappointed in her appearance. Far
from it; he thought her more charming than
in her younger days, if possible.
	Alice’s courtship was progressing favor-
ably. All seemed to be smooth sailing in
their direction. Not so with the others.
Obstacles kept looming up, and Sidney
thought there was no chance at all for him.
Esther’s time was occupied with many calls
and visits. A tender word now and then
when he could meet her in the hallway
alone, was about the extent of his advan-
tages. He knew that some business had to
be attended to soon in Boston, and thought
he would go and transact it while Esther
was so much engaged, and visit her at her
own home when she returned, when he ar-
dently hoped he would be the chief attrac-
tion. The Wetherells persuaded him to re-
main until after New Year’s, and hoping
he might secure an interview on that aus-
picious day, he consented to stay until that
time. He was disappointed, however, the
house was full of callers and some friends
had been invited to dine, and the day sped
swiftly by, and he had decided to leave early
the next morning. He invited Richard Ash-
burn to accompany him, thinking it would
hurry Alice and her aunt home a few days
sooner.
	Mrs. Danforth had intended remaining
much longer, but as her niece had made up
her mind to get married in the coming
spring, she decided to go home and set about
preparations, though she did not take Sid-
ney’s case into consideration as an incentive
to her going.
	The visit had not only been a pleasant but
profitable one, and Aunt Esther realized
how great a blessing had come to her,
through the Gospel she had heard and em-
braced. She was already planning to leave
her native state and go to join the people
of her choice in the chosen home of the
Saints. About a week after Manning’s and
Richard’s departure, Aunt Esther and Alice
took the stage for home. With considerable
reluctance though, for they had met many
pleasant people, and partings give us all
more pain than pleasure. But our lives are
mostly made up of these trifles, coming and
going, meeting and parting, and we must
take the sweet along with the bitter, or we
would never know the contrast. An over-
dose of sweet is very injurious, and some-
times fatal, though we all long for it more
or less, and some people really seem to get
more than their share in this life.
	Poor Aunt Esther plainly saw that there
was to be another struggle with her feelings,
another temptation, was near, and whether
she could overcome it or not, she was
scarcely satisfied in her own mind. She
had no advisor, no one upon whom she
could lean, and her human heart cried out
sharply for the love she had never been per-
mitted to enjoy in its full completeness.
Now it was within her reach. She could
accept it if she would, but would it not be
at the sacrifice of something higher and
holier and more lasting than mere earthly
happiness at its best? Esther Danforth
prayed for guidance from above; it was her
only hope and stay.
	Aunt Esther had no trouble in convincing
Polly and Ben, her true, trusted helps, of

[Column 2]
the new religion as she called it, and when,
shortly after, some elders, who had visited
Boston, came out to Mrs. Danforth’s, who
lived a little way out in the suburbs, both of
them were ready for baptism. Others of her
neighbors, too, believed; among them the
Elmores, which was a source of joy to Aunt
Esther and Alice, especially because of
Harry.
	Sidney Manning and Richard Ashburn
were not long away from the Wren’s Nest
after its mistress returned, and many pleas-
ant evenings were spent there, happily for
all except Aunt Esther, who felt too keenly
the risk she was running; for she had known
by intuition all along, that her old sweet-
heart, as he had been christened by the
young folks, was not favorable to her views
upon religion, and to her nature it seemed a
positive necessity. He wanted her exclu-
sively, and that only he declared would sat-
isfy him. But she was different and her
needs were greater; she, too, wanted his
love and something higher and purer. Day
after day the struggle went on, until Alice’s
marriage. Then the calmness was ruffled
a little, when Mr. Manning insisted upon
their marriage on the same day with Alice
and Richard. Esther made such an em-
phatic resistance, that it came near destroy-
ing their friendly relations for the future.
	It would be quite impossible here to de-
scribe in detail the particulars of Alice’s
wedding, but suffice to say, she had every-
thing she desired and was a perfect picture
of loveliness herself. The Elmore girls were
her bridesmaids, and young Mr. Wetherell,
her cousin, was Richard’s best man. Her
rich uncle from India, as she playfully called
Mr. Manning, gave her an elegant India
shawl and several odd and pretty ornaments.
After the wedding, Mr. Manning still con-
tinued his visits to the Wren’s Nest, and as
time went on, he grew impatient of the de-
lay or the fulfillment of the dream of his
life, and used all the powers of persuasion
he possessed to get Esther to name the
happy day. At last Esther summoned all
her courage and assured him it could never
be. It almost broke her heart, the inward
struggle was so great, but she saw with a
woman’s keen intuition that her happiness
would not be secured by giving way to this
earthly love that clashed with her religion,
and she knew herself to be equal to the oc-
casion. For her “old sweetheart,” as every
one had come to call him now, she felt
deeply; he had staked all and was about to
lose. He had no faith to lean upon, and
while she talked to him, this great, strong
man sobbed like a child. When he recov-
ered himself sufficiently to speak, he said:
	“Esther, my darling, if you should change
your mind, if you should be unhappy and
want me, or if misfortune should come to
you, don’t hesitate to come to me or send
for me. I will come if I am living. I would
marry you notwithstanding the doubts you
entertain of our happiness, but I cannot
take you unless you are wholly satisfied.
And now I must go away. I dare not linger
near you, I should be desperate,” and he
caught her in his arms, showered her with
burning kisses, and the hot tears fell like
rain upon her face. A moment more, and
he was gone—fled from her forever. She
did not dare look after him, lest she should
call him back, and have to go over the same
scene again. It was over, and her “sweet-
heart” had left her. She sank upon the sofa
and gave way to a passionate burst of grief.

[Column 3]
	And now Esther’s sweetheart has gone,
we must draw our story to a close. There
is little more to tell. Poor Aunt Esther went
about her daily duties as before, only she
grew more and more tender and lovable.
For some years letters came regularly from
India, and occasionally some valuable gift.
Twice she wrote to him upon Gospel sub-
jects. She did not dare trust her pen to
speak for her of other things. By and by
the letters ceased coming and then she knew
Sidney Manning was dead. She remained
constant in her devotion to her old sweet-
heart, and never married after, though she
had many opportunities. She devoted her
time, her means, and her energies, all to
doing good for others in the household of
faith, and many there were who received
blessings at her hands.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EARTH-MOTHER.
Earth, Mother Earth, I lie down with my cheek
		to thee,
	Warm with the sunshine and rough with the
		rain!
Thus, as a child, would I nestle and speak to
		thee,
	Feeling the pulse of thee answer again.
Dear Mother Earth, with such wealth at the
		heart of thee,
	Bringing forth gifts at the Word of the Lord,
Kinship is ours, for they child is a part of
		thee—
	Thus let our hearts beat in tranquil accord!
Poppies burn red, and winged grass-seeds blow
		airily;
	White wave the corn-crests ’gainst blue of
		the sky;
Gleans Brother Harvest-Mouse, watching me
		warily—
	All of them children of thine, as am I!
Children of thine—thou hast reared up a host
		of them,
	Each turning home when his day’s work is
		past!
Room waits for me, where thou hidest the most
		of them—
	How should I fear when it comes to the last?
How should I shrink when thine arms are out-
		spread for me,
	Done with life’s quest in the sun and the
		rain—
When, of thy kindness, thou makest a bed for
		me,
	Folding thy child to thy bosom again?
Field-mouse and poet shall rest there right
		brotherly—
	Lowly or great nevermore they are styled.
Earth, thou art gracious, and, Earth, thou art
		motherly—
	Earth creeps to Earth with the trust of a
		child!
				QUEENIE SCOTT HOPPER.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	On the 3rd of November, another stake
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints was added to the chain. The Boise
stake, comprising that large tract of terri-
tory reaching from the Snake river on the
east, to Ontario, Oregon, on the west, and
embracing within its limits twelve counties.
Heber O. Hale is the stake president, and
has most able counselors and other officers
associated with him. The Relief Society
president for the new stake is Sister Mary
A. Rawson. The new stake is distinctive in
that it is the only single stake which has
its headquarters in the state capital.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	-	NOVEMBER, 1913


[Column 1]
THE MONUMENT TO THE GULLS.
	The morning of October second wit-
nessed one of the prettiest incidents in the
history of Utah, the occasion of the un-
veiling of the Sea Gull Monument. Long
before the time stated for the ceremonies,
a throng of people had assembled on the
Temple Square to witness the unveiling. On
a temporary platform were seated the First
Presidency and other Church officials, the
sculptor Mahonri M. Young, Senator
Smoot, and Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, who
had been selected to draw the cords for the
unveiling of the monument. Presiding
Bishop Charles W. Nibley was master of
ceremonies and after a selection by the
Tabernacle Choir introduced Mrs. Wells to
the assembled throng. We take the liberty
of quoting this part of the proceedings from
one of the daily papers; it read as fol-
lows—
	Shorty before eleven’ o’clock this morning
an aged, sweet-faced woman, whom Bishop
C. W. Nibley referred to as a young lady of
21 years was assisted from the speakers’
stand in the temple grounds, to the spot
where were the several ropes which held
two large American flags draped about the
monument.
	Following a short but beautiful speech,
she pulled gentlv at two of the ropes and
one of the flags slowly floated to the ground
below. The crowd bared their heads and a
few seconds later the second flag fell to the
ground. The woman was Mrs. Emmeline
B. Wells, beloved president of the Relief
Society. Mrs. Wells said she witnessed the
devastation of the first crops bv the crick-
ets. She has told the story manv times of
how the thousands of gulls came to the val-
ley when the little band of pioneers had al-
most given up hope that the crops would
be saved. She was a young girl in those
days, but the picture of the gulls flying
from the Great Salt Lake, and how they
gorged the crickets was always vivid in her
mind. She further said: “It is a poetic
coincidence that our idea of national free-
dom from oppression, and our idea of state
deliverance from starvation, should be rep-
resented by birds. The eagle, maiestic mon-
arch of the air, is represented on shield and
coin and tablets of bronze all over the broad
land. The gentle gull, humble habitant of
the shores of our Great Salt Sea, has found
a shrine heretofore only in the grateful
memories of this valley’s pioneers and their
descendants. My heart swells with thanks-

[Column 2]
giving that we are now to preserve in sculp-
tured art the miraculous incident we all
know so well; and I now have the pleasure
and honor to unveil this beautiful monument
to the eye and admiration of grateful thous-
ands now living, and of untold thousands
yet to come.”
	Following the unveiling of the monument,
the sculptor, Mahonri M. Young, was intro-
duced and bowed his acknowledgment to the
applause with which he was greeted. Bishop
Nibley then invited all the pioneers of 1847-
48 to come forward and take seats of honor
near the stand. The Honorable W. W. Riter
gave a most interesting account of the hard-
ships experienced by the pioneers the first
two years. Mr. Riter’s remarks were as fol-
lows:
	Brethren and Friends: We have met on
this occasion to celebrate, in a modest way,
the unveiling of the monument of the Gull,
the bird that played so important a part in
the preservation of the lives of the Pioneers
of 1847 and 1848. It is fitting that the work-
manship, or art expression, portrayed in this
bird should be the handiwork of a grandson
of the great leader, Brigham Young, who led
these early pioneers into this then sterile and
forbidding country. I doubt if there are any
present to whom this event has a greater
significance than to me. I was only a boy
of 10 years when the event occurred, which
we now have met to commemorate. I well
remember the gloom, almost despair, that
fell upon us when the crickets came down
from the hills in such myriads that the
ground was nearly covered with them, and
attacked with voracious appetites the then
too scanty fields of grain, which had been
planted with toilsome hands. You will par-
don me if I give you some of my own re-
membrances in regard to this event, for they
are the ones most deeply imbedded in my
memory.
	My father had planted eight acres of
wheat up there in the Nineteenth ward, on
the ground immediately in front of Captain
Hooper’s old residence. It grew fairly well
until the crickets came, and then our glow-
ing hope of a crop was almost turned into
despair. My father had put in a crude dam
on the north branch of City Creek, near
where the Odeon now stands, and turned
the water to irrigate his wheat down an old
channel of the creek until it reached his field.
Besides the myriads of crickets which were
already devouring the tender plants, this
water brought down myriads of others that
had come off the hills, and failing to cross
the water (for they were a clumsy insect)
were washed down into his field. The ex-
tremity was so great he offered Robert
Pierce the contents of his whole field for
three barrels of flour, reckoning that these
three barrels of flour would feed his family
six months, and then we could die.
	These conditions were the lot of all the
pioneers then here. I have frequently
thought these events were a striking an-
alogue to those encountered by the Israel-
ites under Moses, when camped near the
shores of the Red Sea. The Egyptians were
on either side and behind, and the Red Sea
in front and death hovering over the scene,
when lo! God stretched forth his hand and
his people were saved. Death could have
seemed scarcely more imminent to those
early pioneers into the deserts of the Sinaitic
peninsula than to us, on the occasion I refer
to. As the Children of Israel, throughout
all their generations, looked back and ac-

[Column 3]
knowledged God as their Savior, in parting
the waters of the Red Sea, is it any wonder
that we, too, attribute to the mercies of God
the coming of the gulls, who devoured our
enemies, the crickets, and permitted a por-
tion of our crops to escape the absolutely
certain destruction they were undergoing?
	The gulls came and gorged themselves on
the crickets; once filled could have given but
little relief, for the number of crickets was
so great; but the gulls disgorged the masses
they had eaten and then continued the
process until the situation was saved.
	Brethren and friends, I witnessed this, and
relate it to you in all truth and soberness. My
remarks must be limited on this occasion for
there are others to speak; but let me here
express the hope that this monument may
be a reminder to those who come after us,
that the same God whose mercies have ever
hovered over his children in times of their
direct distress, still lives, and that he may
ever be relied upon for relief when all hu-
man succor fails.
	This recital would be incomplete if I did
not refer to a grand character then among
us in the person of Uncle John Smith,
patriarch, as he then was called—a brother
to the prophet’s father. He was then an
aged man. His courage and faith never
failed. My father, who was not sustained
by the faith many had, suffered extreme
distress of mind at the perilous conditions
surrounding us. Uncle John, seeing he was
an honest man, but lacking faith, buoyed
him up by prophetic words and promises of
relief. I well remember him saying on one
occasion, with considerable vehemence: "I
tell you, Brother Riter, all will come out
well.” These words were a great solace to
me, for young as I was, I shared the appre-
hension of disaster that my father did.
	How great the distress that seemed to
surely be upon us in case the crickets en-
tirely destroyed our crops, may better be
sensed when I tell you that already many
of the people had consumed the scanty sup-
ply of food they had brought across the
plains with them the year before, and were
then living on thistle roots, pig weed, and
segos; it was 1,200 miles to the nearest
food supply at St. Joseph, Missouri, and at
least a year must elapse before food could
be had from that quarter, even if we had
had the money to purchase it, which we had
not. To make matters worse, we knew that
President Young was returning here, fol-
lowed by others of our people, who would
have to be fed from our crops—but how
feed them, if we had no crops? Who can
picture the peril we were in, and, had our
crops been consumed, what would have
been our doom? The fate of the Donner
party would have been but a circumstance
compared with it. There were only 80 of
them, and there were 1,800 of us, to be aug-
mented by 2,500 more, when President
Young (who had returned the year before
to the Missouri river) should arrive with
the immigration of that year. Added to this,
the winter following was one of the coldest
known since our coming here. Can you
wonder that I say, I doubt if any are present
to whom this event has a greater signifi-
cance than to me?
	Some one might pertinently ask: What
has become of those crickets? They grad-
ually diminished in numbers from year to
year, and have now disappeared from Utah.
About twenty years’ ago I saw some in
Tooele valley, near Stockton, and about ten


years ago I saw a few at the mouth of Salt
River, in Wyoming. I believe they have
now entirely vanished.
	Our early legislators enacted into law a
measure protecting the gull, as an acknowl-
edgment that they had been divinely sent
to save us from destruction. On one occa-
sion one of our over-zealous brethern arrest-
ed a poor, hungry Indian for shooting one
of these birds, so great was our veneration
for them. But the Indians, on learning that
we had such great respect for them, soon
learned to respect them also, on our account,
and I never knew one molested after the
event named. 
	Now, as the dove is the sign and emblem
of peace and love, to us at least, let this gull
(pointing to the monument) be the sign of
relief—and mercy.
	In humble reverence let us bow our heads
and acknowledge the mercies of God in our
behalf in the event which the dedication
of this monument celebrates, and also pray
that we may ever live so as to be worthy
of his continuing favor.
	President Joseph F. Smith, in a most in-
teresting manner, related many incidents of
the early trials of the pioneers and read
from old journals the pages telling of the
ravages of the crickets and the almost utter
despair of the people as they saw their crops
being destroyed. He told of his own knowl-
edge of this event in a most forceful and
pathetic way, after which President Smith
offered a beautiful and touching dedicatory
prayer. After the ceremonies the throng of
people wandered around the grounds for
some time, studying with admiration the
pictured tablets of the monument. Alto-
gether the incident was one long to be re-
membered.
	The monument consists of a granite
pedestal supporting a granite column about
30 feet high, on the top of which is a large
granite ball and the birds. The birds are
done in bronze covered with gold leaf. On
the sides of the pedestal are bronze tablets
which give a picture account of the scenes
leading up to the coming of the gulls. One
shows the pioneers entering the valley, an-
other has a harvest scene, a third shows a
dejected family with the gulls flying among
them, while on the fourth is inscribed
“Erected in Grateful Remembrance of the
Mercy of God to the Mormon Pioneers.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFER-
			ENCE.
	The Semi-Annual Conference of the
General Relief Society was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall October 2 and 3, com- 
mencing Thursday, October 2, at 10 a. m.,
with President Emmeline B. Wells, presid-
ing.
	The session opened with singing, “How
Firm a Foundation,” by the Granite stake
choir and the congregation.
	Prayer by Sister Rebecca N. Nibley.
	Singing, “Come Thou Glorious Day of
Promise.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave the
address of welcome and greeting. She was
delighted to see so many assembled and
hoped the conference would be one of
power and influence. She felt that the Lord
has been merciful to the society in the past
year and has given us manifold blessings,
as a result of which great things have been
accomplished by the organization. Many

[Column 2]
improvements have been made at the cost
of great sacrifice, but the standard of the
work has been raised and our sisters have
been better educated in all that pertains to
Relief Society work. She admonished the
members to read the instructions of the
Prophet Joseph to the Relief Society which
were given on several occasions, and to
carry them out as nearly as possible.
	President Effie Ensign Merril, of Liberty
stake, responded to the address of welcome
in a few well chosen words. She felt highly
honored in so doing and expressed her ap-
preciation of the labors of the President and
the members of the General Board.
Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward sang a so-
prano solo, “More Love for Thee, O
Christ.”
	Reports of the Relief Societies of the fol-
lowing stakes were given as follows:
	Alpine stake, by Miss Amy Rosza, stake
secretary; South San Pete stake, by Mrs.
Jane Bench; Parowan stake, by Mrs. Julia
R. Lyman.
	Miss Joy Richards reported the work of
the newly established milk depot on the
West side. She was introduced by Mrs.
Alice M. Horne, who explained that the
Relief Society had seen fit to help the city
Board of Health in this good work by fur-
nishing a nurse in the person of Miss
Richards to assist at the depot.
	Miss Richards stated that the milk depot
or dispensary was established in July of this
year by the city Board of Health for the
purpose of furnishing pure milk at cost for
babes. There have been in attendance three
nurses; two hospital trained nurses fur-
nished by the city, and one Relief Society
nurse, trained in the Relief Society School
of nurses’ and furnished by the Woman’s
Relief Society. It has been the duty of
these nurses to visit homes and ascertain
when help was needed, also to give instruc-
tion on how to feed and care for babies.
	Pure milk was furnished at whatever
price people were able to pay and was given
free to those who were not able to pay
anything.
	In the two months of August and Sep-
tember 1,123 quarts of milk were received;
323 quarts were sold and 800 quarts were
given away. Forty babes were furnished
milk at the station and there was only one
death among them, this death occurring a
few hours after the first application for as-
sistance was made to the nurses. Three
hundred and twenty-eight calls at the depot
were made by mothers, and 1,382 home in-
quiry calls were made by the nurses. The
amount taken in for milk sold was $42.10, a
small amount compared to what was paid
out; but the knowledge of the great amount
of good done and the wonderful apprecia-
tion of those who were assisted, made the
recompense larger than could be counted in
dollars and cents.
	A beautiful organ solo was given by Miss
Edna Coray.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts addressed the
conference. She felt so overcome with joy
in contemplating the wonderful work being
done constantly by the Relief Society, that
it was hard to control her feelings on this
occasion. She was delighted to know that
the trained nurses and the Relief Society
nurse had worked so harmoniously in the
city health department; this is as it should
be. Dr. Roberts spoke of the Relief Society
Nurse school to open immediately after con-
ference and explained briefly the work.

[Column 3]
	Congregation sang, “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.”
	Closing prayer, Mrs. Julina L. Smith. 
AFTERNOON SESSION. 
	Singnig, “Come Let Us Anew.”
	Prayer by Dr. Romania B. Penrose.
	Singing, “Lord Thou Wilt Hear Me.”
	Mrs. Winnifred Brown addressed the as-
sembly, speaking on her experiences at the
Joseph Smith Memorial Cottage at South
Royalston, Vt. She felt it a great honor and
privilege to reign as queen over the home-
stead of the Prophet Joseph Smith. In the
cottage, which was erected over the exact
spot of the prophet’s home, peace, beauty,
and love reign supreme. The old original
gray hearthstone where the babe was
washed and dressed has been retained and
placed in the modern cottage, and above it
hangs the portrait of his mother Lucy Mack
Smith, done in oil. This hearthstone is a
sacred and hallowed spot and the picture
above it, is a source of comfort and inspira-
tion to all who behold it. During the last
year 15,000 people have been received at
the Memorial Cottage.
	Tenor solo, “In God’s Acre,” was given
by Joseph Paul.
	Sister Jeanette A. Hyde gave an address
on “Genealogy.” She called attention to
the fact that the Prophet Joseph urged the
Saints to be energetic in saving souls and in
carrying out this instruction, we must not
forget our dead. We must collect and com-
plete our family records, and go into the
temples and have ordinances performed for
those who did not have the privilege to do
this for themselves. Genealogical records
have been considered of very great impor-
tance in all times. We will remember that
Lehi was sent back to Jerusalem to obtain
the records of his people, as well as the laws
and commandments of Moses. Every Latter-
day Saint should read and study sections
127 and 128 of the Doc. and Cov. Sister
Hyde announced that a series of lessons in
genealogy will be given during the April,
1914, conference, and that each stake will
be expected to send a delegate to take up
the work, details of which will be given at
the officers’ meeting on Tuesday.
	Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley reported that the
Relief Society Home for Women is com-
pleted and is open for women and girls who
are out of employment and are in need of
temporary quarters. A reasonable fee will
be charged for lodging, as it is the desire
of the Board to have the Home self-support-
ing.
	Mrs. Agness Olsen Thomas gave a vocal
solo, “O Rest in the Lord.”
	Counselor Julina L. Smith addressed the
conference. She had been greatly impressed
with the remarks of Mrs. Brown and re-
ferred very feelingly to the Prophet’s
mother who she said lost five grown sons
and still retained her faith and courage and
cheerfulness. The motto of this mother was
“O Lord Thy will not mine be done.” The
speaker referred to the new building about
to be erected by the Church, and was pleased
to say that a portion of it would be set apart
for the use of the Genealogical Society,
where its books and records may be safely
kept. She urged the sisters to keep up their
interest in genealogy and to urge others to
do everything possible to study the great
and glorious work.
	Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings spoke of the


[Column 1]
unveiling of the Sea Gull Monument. She
was carried back to early days in Utah when
there were many wonderful demonstrations
of God’s goodness to His people.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams felt over-
joyed in listening to the report of the work
of Mr. and Mrs. Brown at the Memorial
Cottage. Their mission is one of impor-
tance and they are filling it with
credit to themselves and to the Church.
	The speaker regretted very much that the
Boston School of Oratory had refused ad-
mission to such a capable woman as Mrs.
Brown simply because she is a Latter-day
Saint, and hoped that such prejudice would
soon be a thing of the past.
	The Relief Society members were urged
to be hospitable, and to be neighborly, to call
at the homes of all people, and to teach
and preach the Gospel whenever oppor
tunity for so doing is presented.
	The session closed with singing, “Praise
to the Man.”
	Closing prayer was offered by Sister
Edna May Davis.
					AMY B. LYMAN,
							Secretary.

	Friday Oct. 3, Second day.
	The morning session opened with sing-
ing, “Come, come, ye Saints.” 
	Prayer was offered by Miss Sarah Mc-
Lelland.
	Singing, “Softly beams the sacred dawn-
ing.”
	Miss Gertrude McCheyne, of the Agricul-
tural College of Utah, began her talk on
“The School Luncheon Box.” She empha-
sized the need of system in the home man-
agement, with its associate virtue, cleanli-
ness. She touched upon the selection and
preparation of school luncheon, urging
mothers to teach daughters to prepare their 
own boxes both for the training it gave to
the girl and for the relief it would afford the
busy mother. President Joseph F. Smith,
accompanied by Senator Reed Smoot, now
entered the hall and Miss McCheyne courte-
ously sat down, that the audience might
hear the distinguished visitors. Her talk
was finished in the afternoon session.
	President Ballard of the Northwestern
States Mission sang, “I know that my Re-
deemer lives.”
	President Joseph F. Smith expressed his
pleasure at meeting with the Relief Society,
and commented vigorously on the initial
purpose of its existence, and its divine
origin; he hoped that nothing would ever
occur to change its name or to interefere
with its original functions. It had been or-
ganized by revelation given to the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and the name sufficiently in-
dicates its purpose and scope. Its principal
object was to minister to the needs of the
Saints, and at the same time to have a care
for the needy stranger within our gates.
	President Smith said that he wanted the
members of the General Board of this So-
ciety to set such examples when they went
out into the homes of the Saints as an angel
would do, if such were to enter our homes.
If they did not do this and the failure was
reported to his office, the First Presidency
would see to it that others would come who
would set proper examples. He urged upon
the Board and officers generally the neces-
sity of studying the principles of the Gospel,
that they might be ready to teach the Truth

[Column 2] 
to others. We should seek to first live the
Gospel ourselves and then go out and teach
it to others. Those who go out to teach
should go in the spirit of their calling and
not spend the time in idle gossip or in talk
on the happenings of the day. You sisters
should minister such temporal and spiritual
assistance as may be needed in the homes
where you visit. He related an instance of
a visit to a distant stake where the sisters
of the Relief Society had cared for sick
families in the town. President Smith
wanted the sisters in office to be big and
broad-minded, so that personal differences
might not creep into their official acts. There
is no room for petty jealousies and envyings
among Saints; be unselfish and loyal to
truth and righteousness. He himself was
loyal to his friends, to President Lyman
who was present, as also to Elder Smoot,
whom he had known since he was born. He
would not consider any man his friend who
sought to injure either of these brethren.
He had watched the public career of Sen-
ator Smoot and knew him to be upright,
clean, just and true to every trust. And his
friends would be the friends of Senator
Smoot. He had no time nor disposition to
criticize either civil or religious authorities.
He was loyal to the city governing officers,
to the governor of the state, and to our
congressional delegation. Moreover, he was
loyal to our national administration, for
only so could good men have the best
chance to do their work unhindered. When
men were doing the best they could, Latter-
day Saints would serve themselves by hold-
ing up their hands. President Smith then
spoke solemnly on the Word of Wisdom,
and its strict observance. He urged the
sisters to look after the aged, to succor the
orphan, and to minister in the spirit of
Christ to all who stood in need of assist-
ance. He closed with a powerful testimony
to the character of President Emmeline B.
Wells, saying that he knew her worth and
that she had been placed in her present ex-
alted position because of her long experi-
ence and her unquestioned loyalty to the
Gospel of Jesus Christ. She had received
that testimony in her youth and it was that
inner testimony of the Spirit, which was the
only sure guide for the spirit of man upon
this earth. It takes of the things of the
Father and makes them known unto the
children of men.
	Mrs. Lizzie Thomas-Edward sang the
“Angel’s Serenade,” with a violin accom-
paniment by Prof. George E. Skelton.
	Senator Reed Smoot spoke feelingly of
his mother’s holy teachings and of his high
regard for women and their labors in life.
He spoke of his pride in the youth of this
Church, and of his own loyalty to its teach-
ings. He said he had never lost anything
by proclaiming his religion, nor had he
failed in any test set up by that standard.
He spoke of the great good accomplished
by women of this Church when they at-
tended the Eastern conventions, and of the
undying friendship such associations had
engendered between our women and the
prominent women of the world. His best
friends among the noted women of the
world had been such women as Belva A.
Lockwood, J. Ellen Foster, Clara Barton,
Susan B. Anthony and others who were not
only friends to this people but to all honest
people, and whose labors in behalf of their
sex had done far more good than had ever
been accomplished by the foolish suffra-

[Column 3] 
gettes of England. He referred in glowing
terms to President Emmeline B. Wells and
her influence amongst these women, and
said that she was a wonderful woman. He
had scarcely hoped that she could survive
her last illness while recently in Provo, but
here she was just as vigorous and capable as
ever. She owed her long life and the power
to rise above such sore afflictions to her in-
domitable self-will and her unbounded faith.
Such women as she are needed amongst
our own people, as amongst the women of
the world. Nearly all noted women knew
Mrs. Wells and always asked after her. He
hoped the association with the eastern
women in their mammoth conventions
would not be given up but continued with
unabated vigor, for the educational value
was incomparable.
	Miss Edna Dwyer sang, “There comes a
time,” followed by the Doxology, and the
benediction was pronounced by President
Francis M. Lyman.
	The afternoon session was opened by
singing, “Let us pray, gladly pray.” Prayer
was offered by Sister Susa Young Gates.
Singing, “On the mountain tops appearing.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells introduced
Dr. Leslie Woodruff Snow as the son of
President Lorenzo Snow and the grandson
of President Wilford Woodruff. Dr. Snow
gave a very dear talk on the care of the
eyes, the need of proper light, of cleanli-
ness, and of proper glasses being worn in
cases of weak or myoptic eyes. He gave
some excellent directions for simple home
remedies for avoidance of common mistakes
and urged the parents to look well after the
precious eyesight of their children.
	A violin solo by Willard Weihe, accom-
panied on the organ by Prof. J. J. Mc-
Clellan, was beautifully rendered and
brought forth a rising vote of thanks. After
which Miss McCheyne completed her ex-
cellent talk on the “School Luncheon Box,”
bringing many little suggestions of value to
home keepers.
	A charming organ solo by our own or-
ganist, Miss Edna Coray, was much appre-
ciated, and then Prof. Maud May Babcock
told of the new “Home” for girl wage-
earners in the Ensign stake of Zion. She
reported that they were in need of thirty-
two quilts and invited the mothers to come
to their assistance.
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave a spir-
ited closing talk, referring to the times in
Kirtland when Mother Whitney was
hostess to the Prophet Joseph Smith when
he was in that city. How she would hush
her cradle song to listen to the murmured
tones of that inspired voice as the Prophet
dictated his revelations to his scribe on the
floor above her. She said we had had a re-
markable conference and she hoped the sis-
ters would take the spirit of it home to their
stakes and wards. She urged them to be
kind to those who were blind or lacking in
any of their faculties, for the blessings of
God would rest upon them inasmuch as they
ministered to such unfortunates. She in-
voked the blessing of God upon all present
and all those engaged in Relief Society
work in all the world.
	Alexander Crawford sang “One sweetly
solemn thought,” and the congregation sang
“Redeemer of Israel.” Sister Ida Smoot
Dusenberry pronounced the final benedic-
tion of the-Conference.
					SUSA Y. GATES, 
							Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE. 
	The seventh annual and fifty-ninth quar-
terly conference of the Relief Society of
Uintah stake was held in the Stake Taber-
nacle July 15, 1913. President Nancy A.
Colton presiding, with Counselor Mary H.
Stringham in charge.
	Seated on the stand were all the officers
and members of the stake board, President
Ernest Eaton, Patriarch Nelson Merkley,
Elders John N. Davis, Thomas Bingham,
Ashley Bartlett, James Jones, and Bishop
Archie Richardson. President Emmeline B.
Wells and Elizabeth McCune of the General 
Board were the visitors from Salt Lake.
	After the opening exercises and rolll call
President Nancy A. Colton made an address
of welcome; she was pleased to see so many
present and more than pleased that we had
with us President Emmeline B. Wells. She
introduced President Wells, also Elizabeth
McCune, of the General Board.
	Mrs. Fannie E. Stewart gave a talk on
“Power of Personal Influence.”
	Mrs. Elizabeth McCune gave an interest-
ing talk of her pioneer experiences; said the
development of pioneer life is a priceless
boon to all of us, only remember this, keep
your ideals high and exercise freely the op-
portunities which come to pioneer women in
Relief Society callings. She advised the Re-
lief Society teachers in regard to their du-
ties.
	President Emmeline B. Wells was pleased
in visiting the far distant stake of Uintah;
spoke some of her travels in getting
to Vernal, but said “I have a desire to visit
all the stakes from Canada to Mexico;” she
related instances of her early life in the
Church; spoke of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Speaking most feelingly of some of the noble
women of the past, gave quite a history of
the early work of the Relief Society. 
	Mrs. Mary H. Stringham thought we had
been blessed this morning by having the 
presence of President Wells and Sister Mc-
Cune; said the reason President Wells was
so young was that she has only had 21 birth-
days, although she is 85 years old.
	The conference continued in the after-
noon, with a very large attendance.
	President Emmeline B. Wells was the first
speaker. She thought in coming here, what
wonderful things men can do, and women,
too; said she would like to know how many
buildings the Relief Societies have helped
to build and the kind of buildings; she spoke
of the storing of grain; said President Brig-
ham Young gave this, as a mission to the
women of the Church. Spoke of marriage
for eternity, and advised parents to teach
their boys and girls the necessity of going
to the Temple to get married.
	President Don B. Colton had listened with
interest to what had been said; spoke of
brethren not taking as much interest in Re-
lief Society work as they should; referred to


[Column 1]
the good the Relief Society sisters were do-
ing in this stake in regard to taking care of
the sick, gave a strong testimony to the
Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	Mrs. Elizabeth McCune spoke of the Na-
tional Educational convention, which had
been held in Salt Lake City; thought much
good had been done by their meetings.
There is another item we want to speak
about. Are we doing our duty toward our
dead? There are temples built where we
can work for the salvation of the dead;
spoke of the genealogical work that was be-
ing accomplished through the Relief So-
ciety, and when you are ready for the work
an instructor will be sent to you.
	President Emmeline B. Wells spoke of the
time when she embraced the Gospel; spoke
of a miracle which happened to a young girl,
who had been lame for years, and had been
restored to health when she was baptized;
spoke of her personal acquaintance with the
Prophet Joseph Smith; related most inter-
esting experiences concerning the Prophets
Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, and the
early days of the Church.
	Elder Harley Morley spoke of when the
Relief Society was organized; said he knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith, having lived with
him for three years. He knew he was a
great and mighty man and accomplished a
great work.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett, in behalf of the
stake board, thanked all for helping to make
this conference a success.
	After singing and benediction the confer-
ence adjourned.
	During the two sessions beautiful music
was rendered by the choir and Mr. Ashley
Bartlett, Miss Melvina Duke and a number
of little girls from Maeser ward, also a reci-
tation by Mary Merkley.
	An officers’ meeting was held for the pur-
pose of answering questions pertaining to
the Relief Society work.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.

		SAN LUIS STAKE.
	The conference of the San Luis Stake
Relief Society was held in the Sanford
Ward meeting house, Sanford, Colo., Aug.
11, 1913, commencing at 10 a. m. The morn-
ing session was stake and ward officers’
meeting, President Johanna M. Harrison
residing. Roll call showed officers present,
24. Minutes of stake and ward officers’
meeting held Aug. 16, 1912, were read.
President Johanna M. Harrison extended a
loving and tender greeting to those assem-
bled; felt they should be free in reporting
and asking questions; considered it a great
and grand honor to have our General Presi-
dent, Emmeline B. Wells, present at our
conference. 
	President Emmeline B. Wells felt per-
fectly delighted to meet with the Relief So-
ciety sisters of this stake; spoke of the days
when the Saints lived in Nauvoo; related
the organization of the Relief Society by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, with 18 members,
and at present the membership is 45,000;
spoke of the reports that will be expected
from the stakes at Relief Society conference
when held in Salt Lake City, Oct. 2, 1913.
	Bishop James P. Jensen of the Sanford
ward was delighted with the beautiful re-
marks of our dear President Wells, the
work of the Relief Society is progressing.

[Column 2]
	Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
	Prayer by Sister Mary Holman.
	During the noon hour an excellent lunch
was furnished and served by the Sanford
Ward Relief Society, which was enjoyed
very much by all.

		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	At 2 p. m. the conference was resumed
by the choir singing, “Lord wilt Thou hear
me when I pray.” Prayer by Brother
Ephraim Coombs. Singing by the Manassa
Relief Society.
	Minutes of Relief Society Stake Confer-
ence held at Manassa Aug. 6, 1912, were
read. Misses D. A. Molerup of Salt Lake
City and Mary Thompson of Idaho, two
lady missionaries in the Western States
Mission and at present located at Alamosa,
Colo., reported briefly their experiences in
the mission field.
	Stake President Erastus S. Christensen
felt to appreciate the opportunity of listen-
ing to two lady missionaries report ther
labors. Spoke of the prophecies of, old, how
they are being fulfilled; how the Gospel is
being spread, also dwelt upon the organiza-
tion; felt indeed pleased for the fact of hav-
ing our great and beloved Sister Wells in
our midst. We were then favored with a
song by Sister Leah Block. President Wells
spoke of the history of the Relief Society;
gave some veiy beautiful instructions to
parents in regard to their childrren, see that
they live worthy of being married in the
Temple. Related a wonderful testimony
that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God,
said she was personally acquainted with him,
remembered seeing the Prophet going to
prison.
	William O. Crowther wished to urge the
work of the Relief Society, also felt to ap-
preciate the splendid Relief Society choir.
	President Harrison felt pleased with our
conference, wished to thank our choir for
furnishing such lovely singing; gave notice
that President Emmeline B. Wells will hold
meeting at Manassa tomorrow at 2 p. m.;
invited all to try and be present.
	Closed our conference by singing “Be it
my only wisdom.”
	Benediction by Bishop Christe Jensen.

	A special session of Relief Society Con-
ference was called for President Emmeline
B. Wells held in Manassa, Colo., in the stake
house, Aug. 12, 1913, President Johanna M.
Harrison presiding.
	Song, “High on the mountain top.”
Prayer by Brother Stephan A. Smith. Sing-
ing, “Guide us O thou great Jehovah.”
	President Harrison made a few opening
remarks, expressed her appreciation in be-
ing blessed with the pleasure of having with
us our beloved President Wells.
	Sister Margaret J. Haskell spoke of her

[Column 3]
acquaintance with Sister Wells for 65 years;
this dear sister has been engaged in this
great and grand work for a great many
years.
	Sister Hannah D. Dalton felt to appre-
ciate the privilege of expressing her appre-
ciation of being blessed with having our be-
loved President Wells with us.
	The Manassa Primary Association sang
a song.
	Brother John A. Smith reported briefly,
his labors as a missionary in the Eastern
States Mission.
	We were then favored with singing by
Sister Artie Rogers.
	President Wells addressed the meeting at
some length; she felt to encourage love and
charity; learn to be kind and good to the
old, also to the poor who are afflicted, see
to it that they are made happy. Guard our
children that they may not go astray; honor
and obey the priesthood. She related some
of her early experiences in the Church, and
bore her testimony that Joseph Smith and
Brigham Young were indeed Prophets of
God.
	Meeting, closed by singing the Doxology.
Prayer by Sister Lena H. Heiselt.  
				BERNECIA ROGERS,
							Stake Sec.


CORRESPONDENCE.
	EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT: I am an
old man over four score, nothing of much
use left but my good memory and this may
fail me soon, so I have concluded to write
some of my early remembrances.
	In the summer of 1857 I happened to be
at Green River Ferry. Isaac Bullock with
his famly were there also. Brother Bullock
had charge of the ferry.
	There were many Shoshone Indians in
the vicinity. They were not savage when
sober, but when drunk were like all Indians,
dangerous. No one expected trouble as
liquor was not sold about the ferry. Brother
Bullock had a friendly acquaintance with
these Indians, could speak their language,
and having done considerable missionary
work among them had quite an influence
over them- He was a cool, level-headed
man, full of faith; still he knew how reck-
less whisky made them. We were visited
by a crowd of drunken Indians who rushed
into the house. He told his family to keep
cool and to show neither fear or excitement
but do as they were directed and they would
not be hurt. He also requested those of us,
his friends, to make no move but to sit still.
This was pretty hard to do at times. I saw
one man place his hand on his gun several
times. Brother Bullock told the women to
start in making biscuits and coffee. This 
they did with due diligence. The only sal-
vation seemed to be in keeping the Indians
eating biscuits and drinking coffee.
	I have had many experiences with Indians
but this exceeded anything I had yet seen. 
Whilst one crowd was filling up another ten
or twenty would crowd into the house de-
manding money, pointing their weapons at
Brother Bullock, some striking at him with
tomahawks and others even punching him
with their knives until they cut his clothes.
I have always remembered that one struck
hard enough to cause blood to stain his
breast; he never flinched but kept talking
to them in a friendly way. Some of the
Indians were sober and when the drunken
Indians became too aggressive they would 
grab them around their bodies and put them
out of the house. How long this kept up
I do not remember, but my impression is
some two or three hours.
	I can well remember, although this oc-
curred fifty-five years past, seeing a good
many batches of biscuits taken out of the
oven, but I have no remembrance of hearing
either of the sisters speak in a loud or ex-
cited voice. I did not so much wonder at
Sister Electa’s coolness as she was known
as a strong-minded woman before her mar-
riage, but I did admire the fortitude of
Sister Emma, the younger of the two.
	I sat where I could see all that was going
on as I had great faith in Brother Bullock
and believed that he would pull through,
which he did without weakening or making
any concession whatever. I have never met


ether of these parties since to speak of the
occurrence, but I have often thought when
reading accounts descriptive of early days,
well that's pretty good, but if some good
writer could tell about Brother Bullock and
his brave family, it would beat that.
DANIEL W. JONES,
Author "Forty Years Among the Indians."


RESOLUTIONS OF RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Passed at Officers’ meeting held October
7, 1913.
	Inasmuch as the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety have received special instructions from
our Prophet, Seer, and Revelator during the
Conference which has just closed, we desire
to voice our acceptance of his teachings, 
both in our own Conference and in the Gen-
eral Conference on the following points,
viz.:
	Be it resolved, That we do declare it our
purpose to keep intact the original name and
initial spirit and purpose of this great or-
ganization, holding fast to the inspired
teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith
when he revealed the plan by which women
were to be empowered through the calling
of the priesthood to be grouped into suitable
organizations for the purpose of ministering
to the sick, assisting the needy, comforting
the aged, warning the unwary, and succor-
ing the orphans,
	We, as General Officers, Stake Officers,
and Ward Officers, of this Relief Society
will endeavor to set an example, in the mod-
esty of our clothing, the restraint of our
speech, and in the observance of the laws
and commandments of God which shall fit
us to be examplars in the midst of the
daughters of Zion.
	We will study the principles of the Gos-
pel, with all diligence, to enable us to impart
of our knowledge to those who are under
our charge both to our families, to the mem-
bers of our Society, and to the ones who may
be ignorant or unwaary, concerning the
principles of life and Truth. We will seek
first to live the Gospel ourselves, and then be
ready to go out and teach it.
	We will seek to restrain our conversation,
avoiding light chatter, idle gossip, and above
all, we will refrain from criticising our asso-
ciates, the chosen authorities of this Church
from the least to the greatest. We will sus-
tain our civic authorities, while such men
are honest and doing their duty to the full
extent. Our loyalty is engaged not only to
support our Church officials, but our city,
state, and national representatives. We seek
to prove our claim to the title of Latter-day
Saint by our devotion to these principles of
loyalty and righteousness. We shall culti-
vate the spirit of broad-mindedness, setting
aside our own personal desires and ambi-
tions, that we may the more fully enter into
the true spirit of this great charitable organ-
ization.
	We will clothe ourselves modestly and in
a way that shall merit approval from our
brethren, ourselves, and the angels of God;
moreover, we shall teach this principle of
modesty to our children, and our grand-
children after us.
	We again commit ourselves to the ob-
servance of the Word of Wisdom. The
things that are forbidden in that Revelation
shall find no place in our homes nor on our
tables. Nor shall they be offered in our
public gatherings.
	These are the principles for which this
Society has stood for nearly seventy years;
but we give them public expression in this
manner in order to emphasize the teachings
of President Joseph F. Smith, and we call
upon all members of this organization to
join with us in a renewal of effort to the
more strict observance of these and other
principles of the Gospel, until we shall more
nearly approach the perfect conditions ex-

[Column 3]
pressed by our beloved President when he
said, “The sisters must go into the homes of
the people setting such an example as an
angel might, if one came to them.” To this 
end we pray.
(Signed)		CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS,
			JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH,
			CARRIE S. THOMAS,
			SARAH J. McLELLAND,
			ALICE M. HORNE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	As the suffrage cause steadily advances
in America without serious and alarming
upheavals and terrorizing incidents, the
American woman is too prone to criticize
and condemn the English militants. One
seeks to gain by persuasion and reason what
the other seeks by force, and yet when con-
ditions and facts are thoroughly considered,
the cause and effect of the militants well
may be the power to hasten the work of
the suffrage cause. When the militants re-
ceive the attention and best thought of great
writers and publishers like Ida Kenton and
Israel Zangwill, in their splendid articles in
the Century and Metropolitan magazines,
the severe judges of the English suffragette
will begin to learn that there is an economic
and valuable problem in the world’s history
yet to solve.


THIRTY-FOURTH
ANNUAL ANNOUNCEMENT
		OF
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s
SCHOOL OF NURSING
	AND OBSTETRICS
Beginning October 6, 1913.
	Hours 9 to 12 a.m.
For full particulars communicate with
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
713 Second Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah

R K. THOMAS CO.,	67-69 MAIN STREET,
					SALT LAKE CITY.
The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Organ of the Latter-day Saints' Woman's Relief Society.

