Vol. 41. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1913 No. 12.


CONTENTS.
Joseph—Seer, Revelator, Prophet..................
.......................................Annie Wells Cannon	81
The Angel Moroni’s Prophecy....................... 
................................................Lydia D. Alder	83
Aunt Betsy’s Legacy......Annie Wells Cannon	85
Motherhood....................Mrs. Georgia Hatch	87
Industry ..........................................................	87
Relief Society Reports:
	Nebo Stake.............................................	88
Editorial:
	The Relief Society Outline.....................	84
	The National Council.............................	84
	National Suffrage Association................	84
Notes...........................................................83,	86
Poetry:
	The Gift Divine............Maud Baggarley	81
	The Star of Bethlehem....Lydia D. Alder	88


THE GIFT DIVINE.
TO MARY.
By Maud Baggarley.
And thou wouldst write, dear child?
O, say not so!
For thou must know
And feel, and suffer
E'er the words thy pen
A grace to save, shall give to men,
And thou beside an open grave must wait;
And thou must tarry too,
Without the close shut gate,
That bars thee from some joy
Thy soul doth crave,
Perchance thy heart shall break!
But this I say again,
Full measure shall ye have of pain!
And sorrow too shall scar thy heart;
For these are part;
And parcel of the gift divine.
Then walk the common way of life,
Unheard, unknown,
And sing thy little song of love
In joyful under-tone
For God will see;
And all shall be well with thine and thee.
But if the gift were given you at birth,
Or e'er thou camest to this earth
Fare forth, with spirit bold
And keep thy vision undefiled;
And sing high songs of hope and cheer;
And do not cry aloud at loss or pain
But count them gain!
And laugh;
And priestess be of One Most High;
And guard well the sacred fire
That unto thee is given
It shall engender pure desire;
And light men back to Heaven.


[Column 1]
JOSEPH—SEER, REVELATOR, PROPHET
	To the Latter-day Saint, no figure save
that of the Master himself, stands out with
such clearness and perfection as that of
Joseph Smith the Prophet. 
	Like most, if not all of the prophets of
old, his mission was placed upon him when
he was still a boy. The advent of the dif-
ferent prophets has seemed to be called for
by the necessity of the age, to divert the
thoughts of mankind from evil and dark-
ness into spiritual light, to turn the turbu-
lent waters stirred by the adversary again
to the peace and calm of God. 
	Joseph, son of Jacob, when a child, saw
in dreams his future power and greatness,
and with the guilelessness of youth related
these dreams to his father and brothers.
Joseph’s comeliness and beauty, his gentle-
ness and spiritual nature, which appealed so

[Column 2]

[picture of Joseph Smith]

strongly to his father’s affections, had al-
ready created feelings of jealousy and envy
in his brothers’ hearts, and when, aided by
his natural gifts, he assumed to declare his
future as seen in his dreams their envy
knew no bounds, and he was sold by them
into Egypt, which unknowingly hastened
the very fulfilment of his dreams. That the
power and gift of God was with him, even
as a child, is evident. 
	Joseph, the latter-day prophet, had
dreams and interpretations thereof, and
visions, and revelations, when only a child,
and, like Joseph of old, related them to his
father’s household, most of whom believed
and credited what he said. Like Joseph,
also, he was comely, straight and beautiful
to look upon; his soul shone in his coun-
tenance and his ways were gentle. 
	Samuel, also, was a mere lad when the
gift of prophecy came upon him. He
had been reared from infancy in the ser-
vice of God by a religious mother. His
early duties had been rather to serve than
to dictate, and yet when the occasion came,
though still a youth, his mighty power was
manifest and we read how he predicted to
Eli the fall of his home because of the wick-

[Column 3]
edness of his sons. In later life he became
a judge and great prophet in Israel. 
	Joseph Smith was reared by a religious
and devout mother, who never doubted the
divine mission of her son when he related
to her his marvelous experiences. Like
Samuel he became a prophet who brought
about great reforms, warned the wicked,
and taught most wondrous truths. 
	Daniel, another of the great prophets,
manifested spiritual gifts when a youth. He
foresaw and foretold the destiny of nations
and to him alone was made plain the writ-
ing on the wall. To him also was given
the interpretation of dreams. Like others
of the prophets he received divine protec-
tion so that no one could do him bodily
harm until his mission was ended. 
	Joseph Smith had like gifts and power. 
Like Daniel, he was many times miracu-
lously saved from bodily injury and possi-
ble death. He also foretold the destiny of
nations and warned the people of that most
terrible of strifes—the Civil war.
	David first attracted attention as a shep-
herd boy, and even then his prowess, his
agility, his strength and more than all these
physical qualities, his lofty spirit, made him


[Column 1] 
the superior of all his house. As a great
ruler and warrior, he is admired; as a
prophet and a poet he is loved. “In the
whole realm of lyric poetry” there is noth-
ing that approaches the songs of David,
and the tenderness and pathos of these
songs if there had been nothing else, would
have immortalized his name.
	Joseph Smith, too, was athletic, straight
and powerful in build, he could throw the
strongest in a wrestling match, yet he
never assumed to use his physical strength
for any purpose other than playful exer-
cise. He never attained political power
yet no king was more beloved nor revered
by his subjects than the later-day prophet
by his followers. His words of admoni-
tion, wisdom, prophecy, praise and glorifi-
cation of the Most High, like the songs of
David, vibrate the heart strings and will
echo down through the generations of
time.
	So all along the line of prophets are the
same attributes noticeable and much the
same of adventure and experience. In his
later years, Joseph, while continuing his
prophetic teachings, had that tender mourn-
fulness and sublime resignation which have
always marked the character of the mar-
tyrs. Though hated, derided, persecuted,
even unto death, there was never a sign of
weakness nor retraction in the true proph-
ets, for a power not of earth sustained
them.
	It was when Joseph was a lad of four-
teen that he went with troubled spirit into
the woods and prayed the Lord to show
him the right way; and it was in answer
to this prayer that he received his first
vision. From that time until his martyr-
dom, at the age of thirty-nine, were re-
vealed through him mighty and everlasting
truths to lead those who would believe to
eternal happiness. Of himself he said: “I
am a rough stone. The sound of the ham-
mer and chisel was never heard on me until
the Lord took me in hand. I desire the
learning and wisdom of heaven alone.”
Yet what a testimony to the world is given
in the wondrous things revealed by this 
humble, uneducated man—uneducated, as
he says, save by the power of God!
Through him the gospel of Christ was
brought again to the earth—the priesthood
re-established.
	The great progress in the status of
woman which is now so marked was fore-
told by Joseph, when he organized the
women into the Relief Society. A “School
of the Prophets” for religious teaching was
organized in Kirtland. The gathering of the
pure in heart from among the nations of the
earth that Zion might be built and her light
shine over all the world, was inaugurated.
The stranger, noting the unanimity and har-
mony that existed among the people, asked
the question of the Prophet, ‘How do you
govern these people?” The reply was, “I
teach them correct principles and they gov-
ern themselves.” He revealed the Word of
Wisdom, teaching mankind the necessity of
pure lives that death and disease may be
stayed; the thinkers of today who are striv-
ing most to assist men to care for life ad-
vance the same ideas.
	He revealed the great and glorious work
of baptism for the dead, thus fulfilling the
prophecies that “the hearts of the children
shall turn to their fathers.” In a word, dur-
ing the short period of twenty-four years
marvelous and remarkable truth’s were

[Column 2] 
given to the people concerning the things of
God which had furnished food for thought
and study for all the years following his
death. We are only now developing his
thoughts and trying to understand and com-
prehend his marvelous life and teachings.
The impress he has made upon this people
makes all Latter-day Saints feel as though
he was a part of them. How, then, must
those feel who knew and associated with
him in life! Their testimony is that he
was different from other men, so that those
who had never seen him before could dis-
tinguish him in a crowd; could feel the
magnetism of his presence, would rather be
a silent onlooker when he was near than
participate in any kind of pleasure. These
are testimonies of his possesion of some
power and influence more than natural.
	Let the Saints forever retain in their
hearts a reverence and love for so sublime
a character. Perhaps no words better por-
tray the man than the following from the
pen of President George Q. Cannon:
	“He had been a humble farmer lad—Di-
vine authority sat so becomingly upon him
that men looked at him with reverent awe.
He had been unlearned in the great things
of art and science—he walked with God un-
til human knowledge was to his eyes an
open book, and celestial light beamed
through his mind. His lofty soul com-
prehended the grandeur of his mission upon
earth; and with divine fortitude he fulfilled
the destiny which God had ordained for him
before he was.”
				ANNIE W. CANNON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE ANGEL MORONI'S PROPHECY.
	“Your name shall be had for good and
evil all over the world.” Amidst the warm-
est felicitations, and most enthusiastic ap-
plausc of the thousands assembled in the
large Philharmonic hall, the Quinquennial
Congress in Berlin had adjourned. The
official and grandest social function of that
great event took place on the evening of the
same day. The city council had issued six
hundred invitations, and voted ten thousand
marks for the banquet. The guests were
the representatives of all lands, and included
the speakers of the Congress, the German
Council of Women, the several German
committees of the Congress, and the city
officials of Berlin.
	About 8 o’clock, hundreds of carriages
deposited the guests at the grand entrance
of the municipal building.
	At the foot of the wide, white marble
stairway, with its bright crimson carpet, a
liveried servant stood on either side to re-
ceive the guests’ cards of invitation.
	The upper hall was gay with flags, ban-
ners and bunting; the air laden with strains
of dreamy music, and the perfume of
flowers. The conservatory was bewilder-
ingly beautiful under the hanging colors
of the electric display, permeating the foamy
water of the fountain which falls in cas-
cades on plants and flowers. The sound of
many voices mingled with the band’s witch-
ing strains as each guest was received, or
friends met and greeted each other.
	Precisely at 8 o’clock—the Germans are
proverbially punctual—the massive doors of
the banquet hall were thrown open, and the
merry throng, entered. A band stationed in
the upper gallery played glad strains of wel-

[Column 2]
come. In the main hall a number of long
tables, exquisitely adorned with flowers,
glistening with glass and abounding with
delicacies, presented an inviting appearance.
The coat of arms of Berlin—a brown bea[-]
about six inches in height, with silken sash,
the German colors, holding with his staff the
guests’ color roses, was placed at each plate.
The effect was strange and unique.
	At a table on the right were seated the
presiding officers of the Congress and city.
The Countess of Aberdeen, the newly elect-
ed president, was of distinguished appear-
ance; the gems in her coronet glistened and
changed color at her every movement. Near
her was our own loved Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, the retiring president, with her
splendid coronet of silvery white hair.
	The assemblage, the music, the sculpture,
the paintings; the feast of reason and the
flow of soul were entrancing. Ten o’clock
found us again in the reception hall.
	While standing here, by the fountain, its
rays now green or amber, crimson or gold,
I found by my side my little German friend,
who sat by me at the table, and who there
interpreted for me, the German speeches.
	“O, I am so glad to meet you again; will
you remain here, while I go for my niece,
she is so anxious to meet a ‘Mormon’?” She
returned soon with a rather diminutive,
brown-eyed, young lady, who asked me
about “your boy prophet,” and why we went
to live in a mountainous desert. Naturally
the answer was an account of the angel’s
visit to the boy Joseph; the prosecutions and
martyrdom of the Prophet, the exodus of
the Saints from Nauvoo, and the long
Western journey. At the close of the inter-
view, the lady seemingly much interested,
expressed a hope that we might meet again,
and we parted with a warm clasp of hands.
	Then was I conscious that there, sur-
rounded by the wealth of the world; splen-
dor and brilliance such as I had never before
beheld; the purple, the fine linen, and the
glitter of gems, where one would never
dream the prophet’s name would be men-
tioned, the prophecy of the angel was again
fulfilled.
	Near us a lady had been standing who
advanced, and I recognized Frau Weiner, at
whose home only two or three days before
we had attended a musical and reception.
After a genuine German greeting, she said,
“Will you remain in Berlin, now the Con-
gress is over?” Being answered in the af-
firmative, she added, “I will send my card,
will you come to my house? I would hear
more of the ‘Mormons’?” Gladly the invi-
tation was accepted, with a promise to come.
This was on Saturday evening. On the fol-
lowing Monday morning, a servant in livery
appeared at our lodgings with two cards;
one bore the name of his mistress, the other
the time of our promised visit.
	Wednesday at 3 p. m. found the writer at
Frau Weiner’s palatial residence in an aris-
tocratic quarter of Berlin. After the usual
greetings our hostess led the way into an
adjoining room, where according to German
custom, she served dainty refreshments. If
one does not eat with the Germans they are
grieved, and think you are not pleased with
them. After tea was served, our hostess
said: “Now tell me about your religion;
you know, I never heard of it, until I heard
you conversing with Fraulein S—at the
banquet.”
	The account of the visit of the Angel


[Column 1]
Moroni to the prophet Joseph Smith elicited
no great surprise. “I could not say an angel
would not come,” she said, “when I know
they have visited the earth in days of old;
if then, why not now?”
	Just then, a sweet girlish face looked in
at the door. “Come in,” the lady said, “I
want you to hear about this boy prophet.”
Introducing me she said, “My daughter can
speak better English than I can, she has
just graduated from the English course at
school.” As she entered, she kissed her
mother with great respect, and I noticed
that she always waited until her mother
ceased speaking before voicing her own
thoughts. While the young lady was not
skeptical nor prejudiced during the recital
of the angel’s first visit to Joseph Smith,
she asked several pointed but natural ques-
tions. The story impressed them; riveted
their attention. We spoke of America, her
resources and wealth; of California with her
wonderful climate, fruit and flowers. From
a descriptive poem of the first visit of the
“Mormon” Tabernacle Choir to that land
I read a few fragments.
	“Why did your people not go on to Cali-
fornia?” the young lady asked. The reason
given that God himself had chosen this
abode for his Saints. I had brought a book
of views with me, “In and Around Salt
Lake.” Soon our minds were engrossed
with Utah; her towering mountains capped
 with eternal snow; her pure breezes and
glorious sunsets; her great inland sea, with
its picturesque islands, and her living
springs of water that had made the desert
blossom as the rose.
	How enthusiastic all people become when
speaking of the wonders and beauties of
America.
	But I wished to call on some of our Amer-
ican delegates, who on the morrow were
leaving for home, so I arose to go.
	“Will you not ride with me?” the lady
quickly asked. “I would show you Berlin.”
Assuring her that her guest would glady be
subject to her wishes, she ordered her car-
riage.
	On one side of the house was a covered,
glass arched drive way, where we found the
carriage waiting as we descended the stairs.
	Fraulein Weiner was to accompany us
as far as the school that the younger chil-
dren attended. There we parted with her,
even with regret, as we would not likely
meet again. So it happened that I rode
through beautiful Charlottenburg the guest
of that noble lady. I observed the solemn
looking footmen—their arms crossed—as
the equipages passed us, and wondered if
those I was wont to meet at home, would
recognize me in this role? My friend spoke
of her home life; of her children, and of
many things that drew us together as
women and mothers. This visit we enjoyed
fully as much as the ride itself. Is not Ber-
lin a grand city? Are not her suburbs de-
lightful? No squalid, forbidding-looking
houses, but all seemingly new and attrac-
tive. The poor in Berlin, as in other Ger-
man cities, live on the fourth or fifth story
(no elevators), as the rent is less the higher
up you go. Each family rents a “Wohnung”
as it is called, which has all the conven-
iences, and where they are just as private,
in their home life, as their more wealthy
neighbors.
	We conversed about the Congress, which
had just closed; of the many brilliant minds

[Column 2]
who had given us their best thoughts, and
anticipations of woman’s enlarged sphere,
in the various countries from whence they
came. Of course, Mrs. May Wright Sewall
had been our able and honored president,
and she had made her presence felt through
all that vast gathering. Then we spoke of
those returning home, and incidentally of
those who were to leave on the morrow.
“Shall we not return now?” Frau Weiner
asked. “I would call on the Americans, too;
I would like to meet them.” Pressing the
button in the coach, the footman appeared
at the window; his mistress gave him her
orders, and we were driven rapidly back to
Berlin, and down to the Ballast Hotel. 
	The German lady could not understand
a woman being a minister, so she asked
Rev. Anna Shaw if she baptized people.
	“Yes,” she replied, “if they desire it.”
	“And do you marry people?” the lady
asked.
	“Yes,” she answered, “and I am glad to
say, that when I marry them, they never get
un-married, but live happy ever after.”
	Speaking of the agitation at Washington
on the “Mormon” question, Mrs. Chapman
Catt asked if I remembered a certain lady,
naming her, who had lived among us for
some time in Utah? Yes, the lady was well
remembered. Receptions had been held in
her honor, parties been given, where the
writer had heard her speak in glowing terms
of the women of Utah; what wonders they
had accomplished in wresting that land from
the desert.
	“Well,” continued Mrs. Catt, “all last
winter they lectured against you in the East
and stirred up the trouble you are now hav-
ing. Your own state is the hotbed of the
anti-‘Mormon’ movement.”
	Looking wonderingly at me, the German
lady said, “Anti-‘Mormon,’ anti-‘Mormon’?”
To her, the story of the restoration of the
Gospel was so simple and plain that, to her
mind, there could be no antagonism to its
truthfulness. Aside, I said to her, “Has
there not always been an anti-spirit? Even
in the dawn of time, did not Cain kill Abel,
the righteous one?”
	“Yes,” she slowly answered; “yes.”
	On the way back to Noelendorf, the sub-
ject of Mrs. Catt’s remarks was again
spoken of. This brought out the story of
the mobbing of the early Saints, which
ended in the martyrdom of the boy prophet
and his brother; and the expulsion of the
Church from Nauvoo. All this was to sat-
isfy that “anti-spirit.” The story moved
the tender heart of the lady to sadness, her
eyes were suffused with tears. “Was it not
so in the days of Christ; did those of His
own household receive him? Was he not
wounded in the house of his friends?” Her
gentle face wore a troubled look, but her
heart could understand.
	Proffering the book of views, I asked,
“Would you accept this as a souvenir of a
most delightful afternoon?”
	“I shall be so proud,” she eagerly re-
sponded. “O, yes, will you come again next
week,” she inquired. “Come to tea and
bring your young daughter with you; I
will send you a card.” We lingered long
over the “good bye,” our hearts were full
of regret, at the parting of the way.
	In the quiet hour following, I pondered
over the afternoon’s visit, and its incidents.
Who of my friends would have recognized
me riding in that stately carriage, through

[Column 3]
the streets of Berlin? For two years I had
tramped in the mission field in England,
carrying the gospel mostly to those in the
lowly walks of life. For being a “Mormon”
I had borne the scoffs of the idle and those
who knew not what they were doing, but I
had worn the proud distinction that came be-
cause I was a “Mormon.” I had been
happy when the “Mormon” was hurled at
me and my people slandered. “Are you not
working for Him?” I had asked myself. “If
you cannot bear that little thing for His
sake, you are not worthy of Him.” Did I
love Him, then could I bear for His sake,
and I had lain down on my hard English
bed and slept the sleep of peace. In memory
there arose the happy homes, where the
family groups were outlined in the glow of
the open fire, and thoughts of days when I,
too, was thus surrounded, brought again the
pang I was unable to still. Then the faces
of many congenial friends rose before me
like the one with whom I had just parted.
The doors of poverty had been shut in my
face, but the gates of the wealthy and titled
had been opened wide, and “Come, in and
sup with us, and come again,” had been
said, over and over.
	The Angel Moroni, how oft have I de-
clared his words, and borne testimony of
his visit to the prophet Joseph Smith! It
seems he must know; at times he feels so
near, I almost expect to see him.
	In this service I re-visit many beautiful
places; see the faces of gentle loving friends
who were part of my life then. Shall we
meet again? Yes! When or where I know
not, but we will meet again. Kindly, warm
hearts may be deceived; walls of prejudice
may be built up ever so high, but we will
meet again. It may be when all things are
made plain by the light of eternity, when all
the mists are rolled away. With some in
the world I have left a solemn testimony.
In parting they have said, “When we get
to the other world, we will look for you.”
	“And I will look for you; then you will
know that what I have told you is true.”
And the Angel Moroni? His prophecy will
then all have been fulfilled. 
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Salt Lake City, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	At the convention of the German Catholic
central verein held last September in Chi-
cago an important step pertaining to women 
was taken. For the first time since its or-
ganization women were admitted into mem-
bership. This step, which is certainly a pro-
gressive one, met with the endorsement of 
Archbishop Falconio, papal delegate, and
Archbishop Quigley, of Chicago, both of 
whom addressed the convention.
	The organization has for its purpose edu-
cation along practical lines of social reform.
Archbishop Falconio conferred the papal
blessing on the 64 women who were ad-
mitted as delegates to the convention.
	“Works without faith are like a fish with-
out water; it wants the element it should line
in. A building without a basis cannot stand;
faith is the fundamation, and every good ac-
tion is a stone laid.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	-	DECEMBER, 1913


THE UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club, at
their annual meeting held an election of
officers and discussed informally the coming
year’s work. Mrs. Amanda Done was elect-
ed president, and Mrs. May W. Cannon,
vice president; Mrs. Cora Leaver, secretary
and treasurer.
	The loan fund which is to be used to as-
sist in the publishing of books by the mem-
bers, is steadily increasing and the collection
of books for the library was also reported
favorably.
	An interesting feature of the meeting was
the proposal by Miss Kate Thomas, that
the society endeavor to get Aunt Em to
publish her long promised book, “Great
People I Have Known.” This proposition
was followed by a discussion which resulted
in the decision that for each meeting during
the year a chapter of the book be prepared
and read by the author. Certainly the many
friends of Mrs. Wells will be delighted with
this idea and we trust it will be carried out.
	The new officers are full of zeal for their
work, and everything points to a most suc-
cessful and profitable year.


AN ARRAIGNMENT OF PRESIDENT 
			WILSON.
	The Rev. Anna H. Shaw created quite a 
sensation at the national suffrage associa-
tion meeting when she declared President
Wilson had fallen short of the greatest op-
portunity he ever had or would ever have
in failing to say a word in behalf of wom-
an’s suffrage, when he read his annual mes-
sage to Congress.  She said no other Presi-
dent has ever had the opportunity of speak-
ing a word which might ultimately lead to


the enfranchisement of a large part of the
human family. Even Lincoln, who by a
word freed a race, had not this opportunity
to release from bonds one-half of the hu-
man family. I feel I must make this state-
ment as broad as it is for the reason that
we at Budapest, last year, realized woman-
kind throughout the world looked to the
United States to blaze the way for the ex-
tension of universal suffrage. President
Wilson has missed the one thing that might
have made it possible for him never to be
forgotten.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY OUTLINE. 
	A general outline for work in the Relief
Society has been prepared by a committee
appointed by the officers and directors of the 
General Board. The outline will be ready
for distribution to the several stakes by the
first of the year.
	It embraces many important and interest-
ing subjects and can not fail to be most
beneficial to the members of the organiza-
tion.
	Much attention is given in the outline to
genealogical work, to which the officers of
the different stakes are urged to give their
early attention. Some stakes have already
had organized classes for this study and
have done some splendid work, others are
just adopting it, while still others have not
yet taken it up. It is the desire of the general
officers that this coming year all the societies
willl have completed this course and thus
instigated a desire among the people of bet-
ter, more systematic and increased temple
work.
	It is likely that some of the subjects on
home ethics have already been studied in the
societies, and in such cases the repetition of
such lessons is left to the discretion of the
presiding officers to determine.
	Where societies have not completed the
outline work that has been provided for
them by the respective stakes, that also is
optional with the local presiding officers to
decide, whether to finish the work already
started and then take up the new outline or
to drop the work and begin with the general
outline as soon as it is received.
	The subject of a general outline for the
Relief Society has been much discussed the
past few years, in fact ever since the moth-
er’s work was introduced as departmental
work, and there still remains the question
whether the most benefit can be derived
from the whole body studying the same sub-
jects at the same time, or from each stake
planning its own work. After long delibera-
tion on this matter the general officers have
decided to issue the new outline.
	That it will be gratefully and joyfully re-
ceived by the members and officers through-
out the different wards and stakes is certain
and much pleasure and advantage will
doubtless be derived from its study.
	The outline has been prepared by a most
efficient and capable committee and in its
preparation much time, study and thought
have been given.
	The work will go forth to the sisters of


the Relief Society with the hope that every
lesson will bring splendid results, and awake
a new interest in the great work in which
we are engaged.


THE NATIONAL COUNCIL.
	The executive session of the National
Council of Women was held in New York
City Nov. 21, 22.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells and Miss Sarah
McLelland of the Relief Society, Mrs. Mar-
tha H. Tingey, and Mrs. Edith Lovesy of
the Y. L. M. I. Association, were in attend-
ance at the session. It was quite important
that all the affiliated societies be represented
wtih their full quota as much important
business was transacted, not the least of
which was the election of officers. Next
year, 1914, the quinquennial will be held in
Rome, when all the great organizations of
women throughout the world will send rep-
resentatives.
	There have been only four gatherings of
the International Council, the first held in
the United States in the city of Washington
when Mrs. May Wright Sewall was elected
president, the second was held in London
and Mrs. Sewall was re-elected, the third in
Berlin when the Duchess of Aberdeen was
chosen president, the fourth in Montreal
when the Duchess was again elected. The
discussions at the triennial in New York
were in anticipation of the business which
will be transacted next year in Rome and
dealt largely with social legislation and mat-
ters pertaining to the status of women in
social and political life. The Utah women
who were in attendance not only took part
in the discussions but also received impor-
tant appointments on committees and were
the recipients of marked attention by the
women of the council. Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells was elected chairman of the advisory
committee of the Council, Mrs. Clarissa S.
Williams of the Relief Society was elected a
delegate from the United States to the quin-
quennial, to be held in Rome in 1914, and
Mrs. Ida B. Smith, who is at present in
England with her husband, President Hy-
rum Smith, was elected an alternate.
	After the adjournment of the council the
Utah delegation visited friends and relatives
in New York, attended the Sunday services
at the mission headquarters and then pro-
ceeded to Washington, where they spent
Thanksgiving day. The influence gained in
the world by association with women of
note and ability who devote their lives to
causes of humanity is helpful to our women,
and the Latter-day Saint women yield an
influence that is beneficial to others. Much
prejudice has been allayed through this affil-
iation and the true position and condition of
the "Mormon" women has been made plain.
Falsehoods and slanders have been refuted
and the truth been told concerning the peo-
ple of Utah.
	The presence of Latter-day Saint women
at these great gatherings has led to many
newspaper comments, and their dignity, in-
telligence, and benevolence have been sub-
jects of much praise. The officers of the
council have found the Utah women most
capable, and often advise with them on im-
portant matters. Such recognition is much
appreciated and we trust will always as now,
be well deserved. The Utah delegation re-
turned home safely after an absence of two
weeks, feeling that their mission was the
means of much good.


NATIONAL SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.
	The meetings of the National Suffrage
Association, this month at Washington, are
considered the most important ever held
by that association. The suffrage women
have held annual gatherings in the different
cities of the United States, meeting every
alternate year at the national capital for the
past forty years. The results in gaining
recruits to the suffrage ranks, removing
prejudice, advancing social legislation for
the benefit of the woman laborer, and many
other achievements have marked the on-
ward trend of the work, but the fact that
in all that time only ten states have granted
equal rights to women, is not considered
sufficient progress and that the rest of the
women of the nation might enjoy the fran-
chise the pleading, petitioning and waiting
period is about over; patience is exhausted;
and the women now propose to make a de-
mand from the law-givers for more atten-
tion to this subject. The papers state that
the scene resembled a charge on a citadel,
when more than a thousand women marched
from the suffrage headquarters to the cap-
tol. The women moved in regimental
formation, in quick step order, and crowded
the hearing room long before the committee
appointed to hear them arrived. The re-
quest made by the women was that a House
committee on suffrage be appointed, equiv-
alent to a similar one in the Senate. The
request is made at every session of the asso-
ciation for an amendment to the Constitu-
tion in behalf of the enfranchisement of
women, and with special committees in each
branch of Congress the day seems not so
far distant for this result.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A NATIONAL ACADEMY OF LITERA-
	TURE AND ART FOR WOMEN.
	It is with great satisfaction that we note
the wonderful advance in thought among
great people concerning the status of women
in art and literature. While some of the
greatest writers have been women, it is still
a fact that public acknowledgment of wom-
en’s talents has seldom if ever been given,
save perhaps to those of histrionic ability;
now, however, an American has taken the
initiative and the word has gone forth, and
another great step has been taken in human
progress. Professor Brander Matthews of
Columbia University, president of the men’s
national institute, in an address before the
academy proposed a national institute for
women.
	Professor Matthews said that women had
never been given an opportunity to become
members of the national institute. He said
the subject had never come up, it has never
been considered. It is quite proper, how-
ever, that women should have an institute
and academy of their own. If such writers
as Mary Wilkins Freeman, Edith Wharton,
Margaret Deland, and Ida M. Tarbell, and
such painters as Martha Caisatt and Mary
Beilitt, would join to initiate such a move-
ment the national institute would be glad to
co-operate with them in any way possible in
the formation of the women’s organization.
	The gold medal of the academy was pre-
sented this year to Augustus Thomas as a
dramatist. Previous awards have been in
sculpture to Augustus St. Gaudens, in his-
tory to James Ford Rhodes; in poetry, to
James Whitcomb Riley, and in architecture,
to William B. Mead. Why have a separate
institute for women? Rather let these noted
women, mentioned together with others,
unite in persuading Professor Matthews to
interest himself in the admission of women
to membership in the academy and institute.


[Column 1]
		AUNT BETSY’S LEGACY.
	Main street in the town of Lind consisted
of one store, where general merchandise was
sold, a drug store and post office combined,
one one side of the street, while on the other
was a plain square board building known as
“The Lind Hotel,” a stable with yard where
teams could be boarded for a day or so, and
hay and grain were sold, an amusement hall,
and a little shop containing patterns and ma-
terial for art needle work, where lessons
were given in all kinds of embroidery,
crochet and knitting. 
	It is needless to say in such a town there
were no paved streets nor electric lights, nor
other modern improvements, on the con-
trary, the wild grass fringed the edges of
the sidewalks, and narrow creeks of running
water took the place of curbing between the
streets and the walks. The settlers of Lind
had reserved one large square for city pur-

[Column 2]
poses where a rather pretentious city hall
was erected from native stone, in the cupola
of which hung a massive bell, this with a
less pretentious building on the same square
which served for a school room during the
week, and on Sundays a house of worship,
constituted the only public buildings in the
town. It is with the little art shop on the
corner, however, that this story has to deal.
In new settlements out on the western
prairies one seldom expects to find culture
and refinement. The very hardships of pio-
neer life and the circumstances which lead
a family out into such places would rather
lead one to expect a rough and fortune-
seeking community. The town of Lind
was not settled either by fortune seekers or
rangers, but its settlers were a part of that
wandering people who, driven from their
beautiful homes in the east, had sought and
found a refuge in the heart of the western
desert. The Lind people had not left with
the first exiles, nor had they followed them
to their destination, but had stopped midway
and established a trading post, expecting
later to continue the journey. This, how-
ever, never happened and the little town
became a permanent home for the few
weary travellers, increasing but slowly as the
years rolled on, and never assuming a thriv-
ing community. In such a place the men
have generally the most amusement, at least
time hangs less heavily on their hands, for
with the work of subduing the soil, trading
horses and raising cattle, such as is always
the business of these prairie towns, their
minds are well occupied, but the women
fare less kindly. The homes are generally
widely separated and the tasks are less in-
teresting. It happened, therefore, that the
one bright spot in the town of Lind for the
women folks was the little corner store kept
by the dearest of old ladies known to every-
body as “Aunt Betsy.”
	Perhaps some day you may happen to see
on the walls of some modern library or
drawing room an old-fashioned sampler or
ottoman cover worked in red and yellow
wool roses, or a buckskin gauntlet, em-
broidered in silk floss; if you do, it will re-
call Aunt Betsy and her little store where
she taught the women to fashion all kinds
of wonderful designs with the needle and
crochet hook. With her brother’s family
Aunt Betsy had come to America in the
early 60s from a pleasant English home,
and with them had remained by the way-
side. It was not her nature, however, to
be a dependent on her brother nor a nurse
for his children, and having brought with
her a splendid box of material for needle
work and some little means of her own she
soon established herself in business making
her home in the back end of the room, di-
vided only from the store by a large curtain
of blue denim.
	Nothing ever happens in a country town
but what everybody knows every detail and
the corner grocery, post office or village
store, is the great dispensary of news, but
for once in the town of Lind the people were
dumb and not a soul could explain the mys-
tery when one Christmas morning Aunt
Betsy found on her doorstep a wee baby
girl. In a city, such a circumstance might
not create any consternation, at least not
for long, but in an open prairie village miles
from everywhere, in a town where every-
body knew everybody, and there never had
before been a mystery, this happened to be
more than a nine-day wonder, in fact it

[Column 3]
never ceased to be a wonder until many
years later when—but wait, this comes not
now. When Aunt Betsy picked the bundle
off her doorstep in the early morning it had
a light covering of feathery snow, for the
snow had been falling all night and this
slight dusting showed that it had not lain
there very long; sufficiently long, however,
for any tracks of vehicle or footprints to be
covered, and it seemed as though it had
dropped down from the skies with the 
shower of flakes that covered it. Such a-
theory, indeed, Aunt Betsy was willing to
accept, for it was better for her to look upon
the little thing as a gift from heaven and
immediately try to give it a mother’s care,
than to strive to fathom a mystery desired
to be kept, and perhaps bring upon its head
disgrace and sorrow. After many surmises
and unnecessary questionings into each
others’ affairs the village folk resigned
themselves to Aunt Betsy’s philosophy, “If
it didn’t come down from heaven with the
snow, probably the Lord knew where it did
come from, and when he is ready would let
them know too; I only knew it was here
and I intend to take care of it and ask
no further questions.” She did not say,
however, that on its little body was a tiny
shirt, made of soft linen on which some
three weeks previously, she believed she had
stamped a small embroidery scallop, and
which now she had laid carefully away for
further developments.
	When the tiny thing was old enough to
have a name all the women in the town
wanted to assist in the selection, and many
an interesting conversation was held over
the counter about the baby’s name. “She is
so pretty,” said one mother. “I should
think you would call her June or Rose or
Pearl or some fine name like that.” “She is
such a little thing,” said another; “why
don’t you call her Fanny or Minnie or
Mattie.” “She almost belongs to all of us,”
said still another; “why not name her Lindy
for the town.” This seemed to suit most
of the women folk, but Aunt Betsy was a
long time deciding. In the meantime, how-
ever, she was making most wonderful clothes
for the approaching day of the christening;
embroidered flannels and dress, while a cloak
of white cashmere done in blue forget-me-
nots was the principal gift of this loving
foster mother, and not until the second
Christmas, when the little thing was begin-
ning to talk, did she receive a name.
	“I’d like to please you all,” Aunt Betsy
said, “but you have so many different opin-
ons. Now I never but once in my life had
a chance to hear or see any great personage
and that was when my father took us all up
to London to hear Jenny Lind sing, think-
ing perhaps as her name was the same as
ours we might be some relation, and it’s a-
good thing to be loyal to your own family,
so I think I’ll just name this little might of
a thing for that great singer. Lind being
the name of this town named for my brother,
who was the first town officer, I guess it
will suit you all pretty well anyhow.”
	What Aunt Betsy didn’t tell was that the
little embroidered shirt so carefully laid
away had been stamped for some singer
girl, who a few weeks before had responded
time and time again to their applause in the
town amusement hall. So Jenny Lind, un-
der Aunt Betsy’s tutelage and care became
quite a girl in the little community. She
was trained in all things, which her good
foster mother knew, and though her accom-


[Column 1]
plishments were few, she was the leader
among the young people in every social
affair and a great favorite with all.
	Aunt Betsy gave the girl great freedom
at all times, except when some straggling
troupe of players stopped on their way and
entertained the villagers for a night or two.
At such times she was more than watchful
and never let her out of her sight, and at
just such times Jenny herself was more anx-
ious for her freedom. The dull little town
always seemed so much duller after these
visits. The novelty of entertaining actors
even of mediocre ability was quite exhilarat-
ing, and Jenny’s feet always seemed to want
to dance much faster when she heard the
music, so fast indeed that poor Aunt Betsy
was afraid she would dance into their crowd
and disappear as suddenly as she had come.
	Perhaps she would have joined some of
the troupes had she followed her own in-
clination, but there was a magnet greater
even than her love for her foster mother
which held Jenny from leaving home. The
youth of the village had looked with admir-
ing eyes for a long time on this young girl.
More beautiful and something different to
the other girls, she had unwittingly won the
hearts of the young men, but by none of
these had her heart been touched. It was
not love for anything human that held Jenny
at home, but a fascination for a piece of
needle work of her foster mother’s over
which she marveled and questioned and pon-
dered many hours. As time went on Jenny
assumed most of the duties of the little home
and business, leaving Aunt Betsy more time
for her teaching and embroidery. This par-
ticular piece of work, which fascinated
Jenny, was never worked upon when others
were around, only at night and early morn-
ings, and the only satisfaction Jenny ever
received for her questions was “some day it
will explain to you a mystery.” The thought
that perhaps it had something to do with
her birth was enough to keep the girl near
her kind benefactress who, though she had
been all that a mother could be, had never
been called other than Aunt Betsy, “leaving
the sacred name of mother to be given only,
if the good Lord ever allowed, to her who
had the right”—so said the kind old soul
when upbraided by the girl for not allowing
her to call her mother. “You were my most
precious Christmas gift, Jenny, and some
day, I hope, we will have the chance to give
on that holy day, an offering in return for
the joy you have brought to me.”
	It was not easy to obtain always the
proper colored silks for the fine workman-
ship of Aunt Betsy’s wonderful picture, and
when sent for, it took a long time to get the
articles by mail, and so like Penelope’s
famous needle work it seemed as though it
never would be done, but as Jenny grew to
young womanhood the tapestry took on a
more finished form. On the Christmas when
Jenny was eighteen it was her gift from
Aunt Betsy.
	A work the dear old lady had wrought
throughout the eighteen years; a work the
tired brain had pondered over and the clever
hands had at last been able to accomplish.
	The picture was a young girl like Jenny in
all respects save complexion, for Jenny’s
hair was dark, while the picture girl had
hair of burnished gold. Jenny’s eyes were
that unknown color between the brown and
violet which sometimes seem black and
sometimes blue—hazel the poets call them

[Column 2]
and the painter calls them grey. This had
been the difficult part in making the picture,
for with, Jenny’s ever-changing eyes in front
of her and the memory of those soft, brown
eyes when she sold the little pattern, Aunt
Betsy was much puzzled, however, with the
touch of a soft brush to help with her needle,
she as though by inspiration, caught the soft,
dreamy expression and the work was fin-
shed. That her memory served her well is
not remarkable, for in all the years she had
been striving to recall the details of dress
and figure of the girl she had spoken to, but
once, and her work was not alone a work of
art but a memory and an inspiration.
	To what purpose had she thus employed
all the years, and now what use could this
specimen of handicraft be? She knew not
herself, but she gave it to her little girl with
admonition to display it where possible but
to never part with it, for in its lines were
written all she knew of Jenny’s mother.
	The town of Lind never grew beyond the
village dimensions, though the railroad came
within a few miles and a branch line was
run down to the town where a cattle guard
was built, and not far away a great city grew
out of the plains, to which the village folk
took their produce and where they some-
times went for entertainment.
	Before another Christmas Aunt Betsy had
fallen into her last sleep, leaving besides her
picture legacy, all her earthly possessions to
her adopted daughter. Jenny very soon dis-
posed of her property, having no natural
taste for those things which had been a part
of her existence and with only a few cher-
shed articles sought the more exciting life
in the near-by city. She had some little
means and considerable common sense, so
was soon established in a good home and
began her pursuit of occupation. Perhaps
it was fate, perhaps fancy, which led her
direct to the manager of an opera house to
apply for a position on the stage before she
had ever had any schooling in dramatic art,
dancing or musicc other than the church
sociables of her native town afforded. She
was not without the knowledge, however,
that she had the gift, for never in all her
life had she been able to keep still when she
heard the sound of music. It was not her
voice, though she was something of a singer,
that responded to the strains, it was her feet,
and many a time in her rambles for wild
flowers out on the prairie had she whiled
away hours, dancing alone to the music of
her own voice. So when the manager asked
her how long she had taken lessons in danc-
ing she answered, “All her life.” He gave
her a trial and she swept before him with
such weird grace and agile step as to at once
win his favor and obtain employment. He
related to his wife at dinner the story of the
new girl who had applied for a position and
how beautifully, yet wildly she danced, and
that she had no conception of costumes or
stage requirements, yet he had decided to
engage her, and told his wife, who was
herself a retired actress, to be at the re-
hearsal on the following day and take the
new girl in hand.
	Jenny was somewhat amazed when she
appeared for rehearsal, with the appearance
and chatter of the bevy of chorus girls and
other people who assembled to do over their
parts before the evening performance. Her
heart just about failed her and she had de-
termined to quietly withdraw when the man-
ager’s wife accosted her. Mrs. Watts knew

[Column 3]
instantly the girl, she was so different in
every way, and she saw first the hesitancy,
then the resolve in her face to quit, so she
speedily intercepted Jenny. Mrs. Watts was
not an unkind woman but had given untold
aid and help to many struggling girls. She
had seen hundreds come to the stage led—
most of them—with an idea that it was a
quick way to fame and fortune, only to find
it the quickest way to an opening to the
way to shame and sorrow, and her heart
had often led her to advise girls to keep
away from the footlights and seek other em-
ployment. But this was her husband’s busi-
ness and she, as far as her conscience would
permit, assisted him in his work. It is a
hard thing to be manager of theatrical con-
cerns and be above blame.
	The profession itself makes girls liable to
temptation, the late hours, the stage ap-
parel, the necessary contact with all kinds
of people, the freedom of speech, and the
generally unsatisfactory wages are factors
which every girl should consider before
adopting a stage career, and if she be pure
minded should ask herself “Am I strong
enough to place art first and with all my
might struggle against every temptation and
live alone for that art?” Few consider and
those generally who do, find themselves not
so strong as they believed.
	To Jenny the first rehearsal was a perfect
nightmare. She was not asked to join the
girls just at first but to watch them; prob-
ably had she begun the dance with them, the
music would so have lured her on that she
would have overcome her timidity. Some-
thing in the face of Mrs. Watts held her
almost spellbound. When that lady finally
asked her if she was ready to join the girls
in their second try of the dance she said,
“No, I must go, but you, I must see again,
think I have seen you before.” Her slow,
strange speech mystified the lady and she
was preparing to let her go when she sud-
denly caught a look in Jenny’s face which
brought back some forgotten hour. And
the two women stood before each other as
though trying to recall some past acquaint-
ance. Presently Jenny, who though the
younger was after all the stronger, said come
with me I have something for you to see,
and the two left the theatre together[-]
	After a half hour ride on the car they
were in Jenny’s room and she had unpacked
Aunt Betsy’s legacy and together they were
trying to unravel its mystery. At first Mrs.
Watts thought the girl must be mad to think
she had any connection with just a piece of
embroidered tapestry, but suddenly her eye
caught the scalloped pattern worked on the
girl’s bodice. Then she remarked, “I used
to do some little needle work; I believe I
have done that pattern on the waist.”
	With this Jenny flew to her trunk and
brought forth the little linen shirt Aunt
Betsy had treasured for so many years, and
then—they both knew.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Miss Josephine Baker, as chief of the
Division of Child Hygiene of the New York
City Health Department, is concerned with
the well-being of over 825,000 children.
There are 135,000 babies born in New York
each year and during the four years of Dr.
Baker’s administration infant mortality has
been reduced by thousands annually.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			MOTHERHOOD.
	In considering the subject of Motherhood,
shall do so under several different head-
ings: first, what we owe our mothers; sec-
ond, what our mothers owe us; third, the
conjoint responsibility of father and mother,
in rearing a family.
	James Whitcomb Riley says: “The
heaven that lies about us in our infancy, is
motherhood, and no matter how exalted, or
how depraved we may become, we are al-
ways attended by the grace of a mother’s
love.” Every great man has glorified a
great mother A great Jewish rabbi says:
“God could not be everywhere, so He made
mothers.”
	Is there any limit to the debt of gratitude
we owe to the one who, since giving us
birth, has stood like a wall of granite be-
tween us and the ills of childhood, the
temptations of youth, and the sorrows of
maturity, until age has whitened her hair, or
perhaps the summons has come and she has
passed over the silent river, leaving a va-
cancy that no one else on earth can fill; no
one else so willing, so sympathetic, so end-
less and untiring" in devotion. 

	“Nobody knows the work it takes
	To keep the Home together,
	Nobody knows the steps it takes.
	Nobody knows, but Mother.”

	Who shall say when the debt we owe her
is paid? and in what way it shall be paid?
No one but the child himself. Bulwer says:
“The best monument a child can raise to the
memory of his mother, is that of a clean,
upright life, such as she would have re-
joiced to see her son live.” As children we
cannot escape the responsibility of our ac-
tions, and they most truly reflect credit or
discredit upon ‘the memory of the one we
love most, our mother. One mother, in
writing to her son, said:

“Do you know that your soul, is of my soul
	such part
That you seem to be fiber and core of my
	heart?
None other can pain me as you dear, can do,
None other can please me or praise me as you,
Remember, the world will be quick with its
	blame,
If shadow or shame ever darken your name,
‘Like mother, like son is a saying so true,
The world will judge largely of ‘mother’ by
	you.”

	Truly then, until we too cross over and
join her on the shore of the hereafter, the
debt and responsibility we are under to
mother, is never paid.

WHAT A MOTHER OWES HER CHILD.
	Martin Luther has said: “The prosperity
of a country depends not upon the abund-
ance of its resources, nor on the strength of
its fortifications, nor on the beauty of its
public buildings, but upon its number of en-
lightened and cultivated citizens, its men of
character and worth; here are to be found
its true interests, its chief strength, its real
power.” Upon whom does the responsibility
rest, of giving such men to the world, if not
upon the mothers of men?
	No greater blessing was ever given by
our Heavenly Father to man and woman,
than parenthood. The custody of a little
child, fresh from our Father’s presence, is
the greatest trust confided to mankind.

[Column 2]
“They are idols of hearts and of households,
	They are angels of God in disguise.
His sunlight still sleeps in their tresses,
	His glory, still gleams in their eyes.”

	Having an assurance of this, how anxious
we should be as parents to so order our
lives, that the tender litttle plants should
grow upright and tall, and straight, that the
fruit-time of their lives might be all that
the blossoming promised.
	No more ennobling and worthy desire can
fill the heart of any woman than to be thus
abundantly helpful to these little children,
not only in her own home, but in every
home to which her influence may be ex-
tended.
	The four corner-stones upon which char-
acter should be builded are: a loving faith
in God, truthfulness, obedience, and self-
denial. The ideals which fill the mental
horizon of youth color all after years; they
are the well-springs which feed the “thought
garden” of the soul. Let us see to it then
that these ideals are lofty, filled with the
love of God, and charity to mankind. “That
which we make our children desire, is of
more importance than that which we make
them learn.”
	Most of the crime and misery of the world
are due to the early influence of home. In-
fancy is neither vicious nor virtuous it is
simply innocent, and is susceptible alike to
good and bad influences. Its safety depends
alone on the watchfulness of its guardians.
	Parents, your child is a bound volume of
blank paper, upon which is to be written the
history of your own actions.	The poet
Burns said:

“O, wad some pow’r the giftie’ gie us
To see oursel’s as ithers see us!”

	My friends, we need go no farther than
the confines of our own homes, to have this
wish gratified. No mirror ever more faith-
fully reproduced an object held before it,
than do the acts of our children represent
the lives of their parents. Of all human in-
fluences those of the home are the most far-
reaching in their results. It then remains
for us as parents to make our homes as per-
fect as we can, that our children may find
within their walls a joy and contentment
against which the allurements of the amuse-
ment hall will have no influence. I believe
one of the most potent factors in making a
home thus perfect is music. You know we
are told a song of praise is a prayer to God.
There is no perfect home without a musical
instrument of some kind. There is no tie
that will withstand the ravages of time and
absence, like the memory of the good old
home songs. Just last week, in the state
prison of California, a prisoner about to
suffer the death penalty for the crime of
murder, was asked by the warden what his
last request would be. He was a native of
Italy, and with tears in his eyes, he asked,
that a woman from his own country, with
a sweet voice, be found and allowed to come
and sing to him the songs of his fatherland.
Hand in hand with music is the literature of
the home. We cannot be too careful what
books and magazines we place within the
reach of a child. Henry Ward Beecher said:
“Books are the windows through which the 
soul looks out; a home without books is like
a house without windows.” We should pro-
vide a diversity of reading in order that
the child’s mind, through the medium of
books, may be given a knowledge of every-

[Column 3]
thing that will fit him for future usefulness;
but always with one great aim in view, to
bring the mind in sweet accord with the
will of God. There is one book that will
never fail us in our hours of pleasure or sor-
row—the Bible. When Sir Walter Scott lay
dying in his great library in Abbotsford, he
said to his son-in-law, “Reach me down the
Book.” “Which book,” asked Lockheart,
viewing the shelves, filled with thousands of
volumes. “There is but one Book,” cried
Scott, and he died clasping the Bible in his
arms. I believe we do not, as a people,
make sufficient study of our sacred books.
If we did, we would be better fitted for the
responsibilities we have to meet, as parents
and members of the Church to which we
belong.

CONJOINT RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS.
	Much has been said about the responsi-
bility of motherhood. We have it sung into
our ears from pulpit and press. I would like
to impress upon those present, if possible,
the unity of the father and mother in the
rearing of a family of children. Neither
parent, no matter how zealous, can alone
make a perfect home. It takes the united
wisdom and effort of both to successfully
cope with the difficulties that arise. How
often we see fathers who seem to take no
farther interest in their child, than to see
that it is well housed, well fed, well clothed.
When mother says the boy, or the girl,
should go away to college, he stands ready
to meet all accounts for board, etc., that
accrue therefrom. He leaves all the train-
ing—physically, mentally, spiritually and
morally—to the mother, teacher, or any one
who will assume the responsibility. Now,
all this I hold to be wrong. The father owes
it to himself as well as the child, to be its
companion and confidant. I have not much
fear for the future of a child whose father
nightly calls the family together and, in a
few well-chosen words, tells them of life,
and the temptations they will meet, and then
with a short earnest prayer, sends them to
bed with a heart filled with gratitude for
God’s goodness. Long after that father has
answered the summons from above, will his
humble prayer be a strong factor for good,
in the memory and life of that child. I be-
lieve we should live more with our children
and not so much for them, and I believe we
will profit equally with them in the com-
panionship. One writer thus speaks of chil-
dren:

“These truants from home and from heaven
	They have made me more manly and mild,
And I know now how Jesus could liken,
	The kingdom of God to a child.”

God help us parents all to live aright,
And may our homes all Love and Truth enfold,
Since life for us no loftier aim can hold,
Than leading little children to the light.

				MRS. GEORGIA HATCH.
Metropolis, Nevada, March 17, 1913.


INDUSTRY.

	The following essay was given at a Relief
Society meeting in 1856, by Sister Elizabeth
McLelland.
	I have chosen the subject of “Industry”
to speak upon this evening. Industry,
whether it be hard labor, or the exercise of
the mind, is that by which the great and


good of our sex have been distinguished.
Indeed, it is by the application of this prin-
ciple to their lives that they have become
truly good or truly great. It is said of Jesus
that He went continually about doing good,
hence we see industry was a prominent part
of His character, and no one can truly say
he is a faithful follower of Jesus, unless his
faith is made manifest by his works.
	I can bear testimony myself that when I
have the Spirit of God upon me, I am led
to be industrious, and my pursuits in life
though in a humble sphere, give me much
comfort and happiness. My home, or rather
my husband’s house, is my heaven, and 
when I can make it comfortable and neat,
I feel I am improving my heaven.
	It is in this sphere that the faith of those
of my sex is made manifest, for here are
their works seen.
	And how true it is that by their works
or fruits ye shall know them. No one can
hide himself, for all have their sphere to
act in. And therein will their works make
their character manifest.
	Industry in the domestic circle makes
home happy. And I consider that women
require intelligence to guide their efforts
and direct their energies in their sphere as
much as men. I do not know that I can
express the importance which I feel belongs
to their duties when we take in considera-
tion that the infant soul, mind, and body is
committed to their care, I would ask where
is there greater responsibility? I believe
nowhere. And like all other responsibilities
it requires the constant enjoyment of the
Spirit of God to enable us to discharge our
duty faithfully and acceptably. In this ca-
pacity a woman is president. She is called
to act as a physician and a law-giver to her
little flock or charge. She is all this in con-
nection with her husband.
	By woman’s industry a great deal can be
accomplished in the furtherance of the
works of her husband. If she is faithful
and industrious she lightens his load; bears
part of his burden; anticipates his wants and
is truly what was designed to be a help-
mate. I know by past experience, they can
do a great deal by their industry. Many of
us recollect the second year of our settle-
ment here, how eager we were to raise
crops, but this could not be done without
industry. We had brought with us from
St. Louis two hens; from these we raised
60 chickens. Notwithstanding our scarcity,
this I have not been able to do since, though
we have had plenty. We had four quarts of 
potatoes for seed, and by carefulness and
industry we raised from them, 25 bushels of
potatoes. I know I am not the only one
who could tell similar cases of the effects
of industry.
	I pray God to bless us and enable us to
be industrious, that we may fill the measure
of our creation, that in the end our works
may be done and well done to His accept-
ance, in the name of Jesus. Amen.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of Nebo Stake Relief Society
conference held Sept. 19, 1913, at Santaquin
ward, President Eliza J. Dixon presiding.
	After the opening exercises by singing,
Henrietta Teitjen, President of Relief So-
ciety of Santaquin ward, gave a loyal wel-

[Column 2]
come to all who came to conference, and
President Dixon responded to the welcome
given.
	A brief report of the work done in the
last year was given by Councilor Martha S.
Kapple.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon of the General
Board, addressed the conference. She espe- 
cially urged the sisters to take more interest
in coming to their meetings and to make
their reports read better every year; spoke
of genealogical work; she made many good
and ecouraging remarks.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcock of the Gen-
eral Board addressed the sisters in her pleas-
ing way; said she had known most all the
presidents and leaders of the Relief Societies
throughout the Church. The mission of the
Relief Society is to build people up and help
them, and to be prayerful; also spoke of the
power of the rPiesthood and how we are
blessed every day of our lives by this su-
preme power.
	Bishop Halliday of Santaquin ward said
these Relief Society conferences always
brought some blessing with them, and the
sisters always bring sunshine with their
presence also spoke of many good things
the Relief Society had done in the Santaquin
ward.
	President Dixon gave a short talk.
	Singing, Lord dismiss us with thy bless- 
ing.
	Benediction, by Lars Ahlien.
	Conference adjourned until 1:30 p. m.

	Conference reconvened at 1:30 p. m.,
President Eliza J. Dixon presiding.
	Singing, Jesus Lover of My Soul.
	Prayer, Bishop Halliday.
	Singing, Count your many blessings.
	Minutes of afternoon session read and
approved.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox spoke on the
subject “The Little Things That Count.”
She spoke very emphatically on our duty
to our children.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon wished to en-
dorse all that had been said by Sister Wil-
cox, and commented on how the Relief So-
society membership when first organized
numbered only 18 members, and now the
membership is 45,000; spoke very emphat-
ically on Temple work and getting work
done for the dead.
	President Eliza J. Dixon wished that the
Relief Society presidents of each ward
would send a representative to join the
Nurses’ Class of Iinstruction held at Salt
Lake City.
	Clara R. Evans felt to thank the Lord for
the many blessings and was so thankful
that the visiting sisters were here with us
today; she also spoke of the temptations of
our young people.
	Brother Jerman felt well paid for coming
to conference, and wished to assist them in
any way.
	President Dixon thanked the good people

[Column 3]
of Santaquin for their kindness and hospi-
tality, and thanked all who had taken part.
	After benediction, conference adjourned
for three months. 
				ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
						Cor. Sec.


THE STAR OF BETHLEHEM.
Wise men discerned a change among the stars 
	In distant lands they had a wonder seen,
	An orb most luminous had come between
	The shining heavenly worlds, what could it
		mean, 
Its light a-streaming through the heavenly
		bars?

But as they watch the star in brilliance grow,
	It moves, and they, to learn its destiny,
	Prepare to follow where so e’er it be,
	To other lands or far beyond the sea, 
The stranger keep in sight where e’er it go.


O’er Bethlehem the guiding star stands still,
	And there in Mary’s arms they find the
		Child;
	Their hearts o’er fill with rapture wild,
	When kneeling round he on them smiled—
This Babe who came to do his Father’s will.

While shepherds wait without the manger door,
	Lo! Eastern kings make princely offering
	Of precious spices, such as camels bring
	Across the desert, to the new born King— 
Significant the gifts those wise men bore

The royal birth declared by angels’ voice,
	Brought love to all mankind, where e’er
		they be,
	Which thrills our hearts e’en though we may
		not see, 
	The blazing star in earth’s fair canopy,
Nor join the shepherds’ song when they re-
		joice.


Our hearts are touched with pathos of Christ’s 
		word;
	“How oft I would have gathered you,” he
		cried,
	And grieved that they companionship denied,
	Rejecting him and from him turn aside.
As if his pleadings they had never heard.

Yet now his natal day brings songs of love,  
	The Christmas bells with happy, noisy chime,
	Ring down the ages to remotest time
	E’er wakening chords of music most sub-
		lime— 
The song the angels sang in vaults above.
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


THIRTY-FOURTH
ANNUAL ANNOUNCEMENT
			OF
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s
	SCHOOL OF NURSING
	AND OBSTETRICS
Beginning October 6, 1913.
	Hours 9 to 12 a.m,
For full particulars communicate with
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
713 Second Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah

R K. THOMAS CO.,	67-69 MAIN STREET,
					SALT LAKE CITY
The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
Waists at Popular Prices. . . .
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
