
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
Vol. 41.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1912		No. 1.


CONTENTS.
New York’s First Newspapers................	1
The General Federation of Women’s Clubs	2
The Training School for Nurses.............	3
Some Old Love Letters...........................	6
In Memoriam..........................................	8
Relief Society Reports:
	Parowan Stake................................	5
	Uintah Stake...................................	5
	Bear River Stake.............................	5
	Oneida Stake...................................	5
Ediorial: Volume Forty-one....................	4
	Office for Women...........................	4
	Dr. Roberts’ Nurse Class................	4
	Mrs. Sarah Platte Decker................	4
Poetry:
	Ode..................Emmeline B. Wells	1
	A Petition.Augusta Joyce Crocheron	4


[Column 1]
				ODE.
	Written for the Dedication of Maeser
		Memorial, May 30, 1912.
Professors, students, friends, who have assem-
		bled here
	On this memorial day,
	To honor the illustrious dead—
What fitting salutation can we give,
	What tribute pay,
What tender, soulful words can there be said?

No precious gift I bring—not e’en a flower—
	As loving token on this day of days;
But heart o’erflowing with fond memories
Of those departed ones beloved,
Who’ve fought life’s battle valiantly,
	And whose deeds we praise
	In song and story and poetic phrase.

Illumining the pathway of the past,
	Emblazoned on the scroll of earthly fame,
		Are names which ever gleam to hopeful
			youth;
’Mong which those only shall deserve to last
	Whose love of God burned as with constant
		flame;
	Their fruitage—justice, liberty and truth.

Of such the brave, heroic pioneers
	Who led our fathers through the wilderness;
Theirs that unbounded faith that lifts and
	cheers
And opens up the way to happiness.

Today their favored sons and daughters reap
	The golden harvest of their earnest toil,
Bearing aloft the standard of their zeal,
Voicing with gratitude the pride they feel,
	That their forefathers planted in such fertile
		soil.

	In paean triumphant let our voices rise
With gladness and with joy our hearts be
		thrilled,
	That these foundations firm and strong
	Laid by that great and noble throng
		Foreseen by them in vision beautiful
Today behold fulfilled!

As retrospectively we gaze into the years
	When that which now seems old was fresh
		and new
We can but think how marvellous it appears
	And most we wonder how those prophets
		knew.

Could we but catch the echoes of the past
	Reverberating through these flinty mountain
		walls
	As in our fancy vividly they’re ringing—
What shadows o’er us would these memories
	cast,
What scenes of pleasure could the heart
	recall—
Now glad, now minor chords of music
	singing.

[Column 2]
Where are those men who once assembled here,
	The great ones of the past who planned so
		well?
Go read their names writ bright amongst the
		spheres;
	Their deeds to all the coming generations
		tell.

They left us one by one, long, long ago,
	But rich the legacy we still retain;
Nor could they on us greater gift bestow—
	The priceless dower of an honored name.

Along the vista of the years now gone,
Familiar and beloved forms we trace
	As in some twilight dream;
When lo! there’s one pre-eminent, alone,
A teacher pure and simple in his ways,
	A man of humble mien.

Not envious he of human prize or praise,
	Earnest and prayerful life’s long path he
		trod;
In righteous tasks he spent his precious days
	With love for all mankind and faith sublime
		in God.

	And toiled he not in vain;
For in fond recognition of the work he
		wrought
	Today we dedicate this classic fane!

Sweet recompense of service freely given
To him who through the early years had
		striven;
There is solemnity around this [---] place
A fragrant atmosphere of hallowe[-] grace.
As though we saw him face to fac[-]

Imposing columns, graceful arch and lofty
			halls
		Display our honor to the public eye;
	And yet within our hearts we know
	Not all the splendor wealth can show
Could rear a structure of such art
As he with master skill hath wrought
	Within each pupil’s soul;
		A temple towering to the sky,
	Of prayer, of faith, of ceaseless quest
	For truth, which giveth perfect rest;
Seeking along life’s pathway wide
The ever-faltering step to guide
	Toward the eternal goal.

Ye who have gathered oft at wisdom’s shrine,
	In your great consecrated halls of learning,
		Partaking freely from the fount of pure
			intelligence;
Have ye not felt uplifted with a power divine,
	The while your thirsty souls were filled with
			yearning,
		For greater, fairer, higher fields of ex-
			cellence?

Some who are old today and once were young
Through patient years have hoped the day
		would come
When Zion’s youth with flag unfurled
Might fling the challenge to the world
That here in these sequestered vales
The highest, purest thought prevails!
When lo, before our very eyes,
Today our dream we realize.

Oh, stalwart youths, and oh, ye maidens fair,
As ye shall venture forth from these protect-
		ing walls,
	To strive for place among the ranks of men,
	Remember the great truths you have been
		taught,
Heed well the still small voice when’er it calls
	Be merciful, be wise, be true, in every word
		and thought.
	The youth of Zion must keep ever bright
	The Gospel armor and lift high the shining
		light.

And when the century has rounded out its
		cycle

[Column 3]
	In this now blessed western land,
Where once the Indian hunted his wild game
	And where our own brave pilgrim band
Into the bleak and sterile desert came—
Then when you, being known as authors, ora-
		tors and men of world-wide note,
Shall look upon God’s temples beautiful, vast
		halls of fame, and costly works of
		art—
Forget not then the founders, and with true
		ancestral pride,
Remember these achievements are but their
		promise verified.
Now in the joyous springtime of the year,
	When all kind nature’s pulses beat har-
		moniously,
	And earth and air both vibrate with sweet
		melody,
Awake the valley’s echoes far and near—
	Shout Hallelujahs till the overarching sky
	Gives back the rapturous song from depths
			of blue;
		And, echoing on from hill to hill,
	God’s starry canopy pierces thro’
	And all the spheres our hymns renew,
		Until with one exultant thrill
	Worlds without end shall testify
	The wondrous things of prophecy.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.
May 30, 1912.


NEW YORK’S FIRST NEWSPAPERS.
	The first newspaper published in the city
of New York was not only a very impor-
tant matter at the time, but very significant
of the future of that famous city, founded
by the Dutch at such an early period in
the history of America. The event oc-
curred in 1725, and the paper, which was
only “a little mite,” history says, was called
the Gazette. It was printed on a half-sheet
of foolscap. When one considers what
mammoth editions are brought out daily
at the present time, it seems almost incred-
ible that the beginning should have been so
small—not two hundred years ago. One
queries in one’s own mind, how did the
people live without at least the weekly
news being transmitted in some way or
other. We are told that all the news con-
tained in this little paper was really the
foreign letters and custom house entries,
with scarcely any local news at all. The
editor and proprietor was Wm. Bradford,
the government printer.
	This paper was the sole source of infor-
mation of the sort for nine years; then a
rival appeared, called the Weekly Journal.
This was edited by John Peter Zanger. He
was a German Protestant, and had been
forced to leave his home on the banks of
the Rhine, by the armies of France. He
had come to America with Governor Hun-
ter, and had been apprenticed when a mere
lad to Wm. Bradford. Now, when grown
to manhood, he entered the same profes-
sion as his employer and teacher, but in
direct opposition to him, the paper edited
by him being the organ of the Whig or
People’s party, while the Gazette was the
organ of the governor and council, the Con-
servatives and vested interests. The Jour-
nal did all in its power to bring the “aristo-
crats” into contempt—“aristocrats” being
the name given by the people to the governor


[Column 1]
and his party, and attacked the governor,
the council, the assembly, everybody and
everything connected with the ruling class.
Squibs, lampoons, ballads, witticisms, satire
and whatever would serve its purpose, were
made use of without stint. The people
felt they had an organ in which to air their
grievances and make known their wants,
and they fully appreciated their privilege in
this way. It was indeed the forerunner of
the Heralds, the Tribunes, Suns, Worlds,
and Journals of later years.
	Bradford replied, defending the govern-
or and his party, but his editorials lacked
the pith and vigor of Zanger’s, as all may
see who will go to the public library for
the information and compare the two.
	At length the government rose up and
did what increased the influence of this ed-
itor, by declaring four issues of the Journal
“libelous” and ordering them burned by the
public hangman, at the same time direct-
ing the mayor and alderman, who were of
the popular party, to attend and witness the
ceremony. The spirit of resistance was
strong, and the mayor and magistrates re-
fused to obey the order. They declared it
arbitrary and without authority of law.
Then the governor, who was a weak man,
and his advisers went still further; they
seized Zanger, the editor, and threw him
into prison on a charge of criminal libel.
Now his friends multiplied; where he had
one before he now had ten or more. They
rallied, not so much for him, perhaps, as
for the defense of a free press, and the
rights of the people to criticize their offi-
cials. The excitement spread to the neigh-
boring colonies, where the issue of the trial
was looked forward to with the greatest
interest.
	The leaders of the popular party at that
time were James Alexander and William
Smith. Both at once volunteered to defend
Zanger. Smith had been city recorder and
was noted for his captivating eloquence. Al-
exander had been surveyor general and was
also noted for his legal ability, as well as his
silver tongue. Unfortunately for the case
in hand their zeal led them wrong, and they
made the grave mistake at the outset of
boldly challenging the legality of the com-
missions of Chief Justice De Lancey and
Justice Phillipse, the two judges that com-
posed the court that was to try Zanger, on
the ground that they were not worded in
the usual form and were issued by the gov-
ernor without the consent of the council.
	Judge De Lancey was of Huguenot an-
cestry, of the aristocratic party, stout, florid,
pompous in manner, a great stickler for the
dignity and prerogatives of his office, and
held this plea of the attorneys to be a gross
contempt of court. As soon as he could
command his voice, he said: “You have
brought it to that pass, sirs, that either we
must go from the bench or you from the
bar.” Excluding them from further prac-
tice he assigned John Chambers to defend
Zanger. There was no appeal for disbarred
attorneys in that day, but the opposers were
men of resource and they hastened to Phil-
adelphia and secured, to assist Chambers,
Andrew Hamilton, reputed to be the ablest
and most eloquent advocate then in the col-
onies. At the same time, through the
press and by private conversation in the
clubs and in coffee houses, they made public

[Column 2]
the story of their own wrongs, and the mer-
its and demerits of the case.
	When the trial was called early in July,
1735, Hamilton appeared eager for the fray
and was greeted with shouts of approval
by the people who saw in him the cham-
pion of popular rights. His first reply to
the indictment was that the articles in the
Journal could not be libelous because they
were true. Bradley, the king’s attorney-
general, took exception to this plea and
quoted the old English law that even the
truth, if repeated with intent to injure an-
other, was libelous and punishable as such.
So, for weeks, the legal battle raged with
varying fortunes to the combatants, and
for weeks the entire body of the colonies
waited to see if the press was to be muzzled,
or left to be the Argus-eyed exposer of
official corruption and the defender of the 
people’s rights. At length, after a charge
by the judge unfavorable to the prisoner,
the case was given to the jury, who, after
being out but a few moments, returned with
a verdict of
	“Not guilty.”
	The people received it with shouts of ap-
proval, and were so delighted that they
would have carried Hamilton on their
shoulders but he would not permit it.
	The corporation, however, tendered him
a banquet, at which he was presented with
the freedom of the city in a gold box; and
the same evening a grand ball was given in
his honor. In this first distinctly avowed
contest for their rights the people of New
York won a great victory.
	What rapid strides have been made in
journalism, and what power has emanated
from the press since that eventful time when
newspapers were young and had to struggle
for an existence! Now we may well say the
newspapers “set the pace” for communities
—it is not easy to determine how great
their influence is over the people in all de-
partments of art, science and commercial-
ism on land and sea in peace and in war.
	Long live the Press—the Press forever!


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE GENERAL FEDERATION OF
		WOMEN’S CLUBS.
	The eleventh biennial convention of the
General Federation of Women’s Clubs held
recently in San Francisco was by far the
most important and interesting convention
held thus far. In former years the work
of the club women, while educational and
social, has not shown such power and con-
trol over the vital questions of the hour as
was evidenced at this last biennial. The
most important thing manifested by the
women’s clubs is their interest in civic con-
ditions. “From Browning to garbage-cans,”
from social amusements to street improve-
ments, from sentimental charity work to
real tenement house reforms, is a long leap
for women’s clubs, but it is actually being
taken by the wide awake women of these
organizations.
	For a week prior to the gathering in San
Francisco, the club women of Salt Lake City
united in forming a reception committee to
entertain delegates on the way. Several
hundred visiting delegates passed through
Salt Lake City and remained over a brief
time sight-seeing, but the principal feature
of the entertainment was when the car con-
taining the officials of the General Federa-

[Column 2]
tion arrived. These ladies were received
by the local club women with open arms and
everything possible done for their enter-
tainment. A mass meeting was held in the
Tabernacle, where after a few words of
welcome by Mrs. A. J. Gorham, the presi-
dent of the State Federation for Utah, the
visitors made brief talks along their differ-
ent lines of work, after which an organ re-
cital was given by Professor McClellan, and
musical numbers by Professor Brines, tenor
soloist, and Willard Weihe, violinist. The
ladies were then escorted to a luncheon at
the Commercial Club, where covers were
laid for five hundred guests. The luncheon
was followed by an informal reception at
the Hotel Utah, after which the visitors
were escorted to their train and left for San
Francisco. The Utah delegation number-
ing about fifty left the following day. The
Utah women are very proud of the attention
paid them at the biennial and especially so
of the compliment to our state in the selec-
tion of Mrs. McMahon, a Utah woman, as
general auditor for the federation. The
work of Mrs. McMahon in preparing the
program for the biennial just held was most
arduous but so generally satisfactory that
this recognition, though unexpected, was
well deserved.
	The refusal to take any position on the
suffrage question was something of a dis- 
appointment, especially to the women of the
West and we can not help but regret that
so influential a body of intelligent women
should not have realized that the best
weapon they could have to further their
great work along reform and educational
lines would be the ballot. The most strik-
ing figure at the gathering is said to have
been the Baroness Bertha Von Suttner,
the woman who has done so much for
universal peace in foreign lands; and while
all these beautiful American women paid
her homage and gloried in passing her reso-
lution by acclamation, they refused to in-
dorse the work of a still greater woman,
their own country woman, the late Susan B.
Anthony, whose great work for suffrage
has also included higher education, universal
peace and every reform that would benefit
humanity. The resolutions adopted and
which will undoubtedly be urged upon the
government of the different states and cities
are as follows:
	1—That a vote of thanks be extended to
President Taft for his appointment of Miss
Julia Lathrop to the head of the children’s
bureau.
	2—That the federation unite with the
government in erecting a monument at Pan-
ama in commemoration of the completion
of the Panama canal.
	3—Indorsement of the good roads move-
ment and of a great national highway to be
known as the Lincoln highway.
	4—Conservation of natural resources and
the prevention of the curtailment of forest
reserves.
	5—Preservation of Mammoth Cave, Ken-
tucky.
	6—Bills for the betterment of defective
children.
	7—Favoring the appointment by the na-
tional education association of a committee
to outline a course of study for sex hygiene,
to be taught in all normal schools.
	8—Appointment of clubs to co-operate
with agricultural colleges and economic
organizations for the study of economics.
	9—Favoring a bill to create the establish-


ment of a bureau of national parks under
the department of the interior; also pro-
testing against the curtailment of the appro-
priations to fight fires in the national forests.
	10—Favoring women inspectors for the
mmigrants at all ports of landing. 
	11—Indorsement of the plan to have wo-
men police in all the larger cities of this
country.
	12—Opposing prison contract labor and
pleading for aid to the families of priso-
ners by diverting the profit that may result
from the marketing of goods not in compe-
tition to their benefit.
	13—Indorsement of the study of Bible
literature and the placing of Bible study
upon the program of literary clubs.
	14—Furtherance of high ideals in the
drama and on the professional stage.
	15—Indorsement of the workmen’s com-
pensation act.
	16—Call for federal aid for vocational
training for boys and girls.


17— Indorsement of the plans for medical
inspection in schools, for school nurses and
for out-of-door schools.
	18—Reindorsement of the pure food and
quarantine laws.
	19—Demand that the president of the
United States reorganize the department of
agriculture so that the pure food and drug
acts be better enforced and “the law not be
prostituted for special interests.”
	20—Favoring accurate registration of
births and deaths.
	21—Indorsement of the “white slave”
laws and protesting against the light senten-
ces meted out to convicted offenders.
	22—Indorsement of the plan for study of
political science as a preparation for citizen-
ship in clubs.
	23—Protest against the comic supple-
ments of the Sunday newspapers.
	24—Protest against imposing any legal
disability on woman that is not imposed on
man.
	25—Indorsement of uniform marriage
and divorce laws.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES.
	No finer training school for nurses can
be found anywhere than that offered by the
Dr. W. H. Groves Latter-day Saints’ hos-
pital. Miss Charlotte E. Dancy, superin-
tendent of the nurses at the hospital, is not
only a graduate of the Johns Hopkins hos-
pital school, but served in that hospital for a
number of years; and besides a thorough
knowledge of her profession, thorough
study and experience, she possesses the rare
quality of freely imparting to others.
	The students find her quite accessible and
are drawn to her by her cheerfulness and
personal magnetism, at the same time appre-
ciating the dignity of her position and re-
specting the rigid rules of the curriculum.
	There are many women who take the
nurse training who never expect to become
professional, but merely to better qualify
themselves for the responsibilities of home
life, wherein there is almost constant need

[image]
NURSES’ HOME,  LATTER-DAY SAINTS’ HOSPITAL.

of the acquirements and intelligence of a
nurse. There have been a large number of
young women graduated from the Latter-
day Saints’ hospital and as one corps leaves
it is necessary to replenish the ranks in order
that the work in the hospital may not be
retarded.
	In June of this year fifteen young women
completed the three-year course and left
the hospital to follow their chosen profes-
sion in broader fields, independently and at
their own discretion. That they are well
prepared for their work is a certainty, for
after the military discipline and training
during the three years term they must have
received an experience and education along
their line of work that would well qualify
them to meet the emergencies and necessi-
ties the world outside offers them.
	At the close of the training each year
appropriate and delightful exercises are
held in honor of the graduates, when each
girl is the recipient of a class pin as well as
her diploma. At these exercises there are
always beautiful music and felicitous

[Column 2]
speeches, followed by a reception, re-
freshments and dancing—this in rec-
ognition of the girls’ hard work and
valuable services and as a fitting close
to their course of training. It surely
is a beautiful sight to see all the girls in
their becoming uniforms and to realize that
they have chosen as their mission the work
to ameliorate human suffering.
	The class of 1915 begins this month
and is already being formed. We would
urge the young women of the state, those
who desire a good practical training, to
avail themselves of this opportunity. Not
only is the training gained invaluable, but
the profession in itself is most remunerative
and no calling could be more in keeping
with an ideal life than that of nursing the
sick. In the Relief Society work it is espe-
cially necessary. Scarcely a day or night
but what these relief workers are called
upon. If we had at our command a few
trained nurses among us we would certainly
find our work much lighter and more satis-
factory. In fact, every ward should see to
it that they have at least one trained nurse,
whose services they could have when occa-
sion requires.
	We trust that the class of 1915 will be far
larger than any heretofore.


Mrs. Isabelle Earll of Joplin City, Mo.,
has been appointed by the County Court of
Jasper County to fill the office of justice of
the peace made vacant by the death of her
husband. During the six years that Mr.
Earll served as justice of the peace Mrs.
Earll has served as his clerk and stenog-
rapher. Except for hearing cases she has
done all of the work of the office. She has
issued warrants, summonses, attachments,
executions, garnishees and all other legal
forms originating in the office of a justice
of the peace. Mrs. Earll has a twelve-year-
old daughter who will probably assist in
the office.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH SEPTEMBER,	-	1912


VOLUME FORTY-ONE.
	It is impossible to express to our sisters
the disappointment we feel in having been
obliged to give up for the time being the
idea of presenting the EXPONENT in the
form of a magazine. However, we must
submit to the inevitable, meanwhile clinging
to the hope that before long it will be fully
as practicable as it already is desirable to
make the change.
	It is now, we think, admitted without dis-
pute that the Relief Society cannot and
must not be without an organ of its own
as a means of communication throughout
the organization. One has but to look over
the pages of the bound volumes of the EX-
PONENT for forty years past to realize most
fully what this little paper has done for the
women of Zion. Not only has the great
organization of the Relief Society been con-
stantly and loyally represented in its work
along many lines, but the Y. L. M. I. A. and
Primary also had in it a friend and cham-
pion before either of these organizations
had an organ of its own. To go even
further back, the early Retrenchment asso-
ciations, both senior and junior, found these
columns a willing medium in promulgating
their plans and purposes. The silk industry
and many other phases of women’s early
activities were here explained and pro-
moted. Indeed, every subject of interest
to women and every stake of Zion have
always had the freest opportunity for rep-
resentation in this little paper.
	The delay in issuing the present number
as the beginning of the new volume has
been due to the fact that we fully expected
to be able with this anniversary to present
the paper in new form. Reluctantly, and with
deep personal disappointment, we perceive 
now that this hope must be deferred. The
advice of experienced business men, well
acquainted not only with the resources of
this paper, but also with the publishing
business generally, constrains us to this
postponement of a cherished wish, and we
feel under all the circumstances that it is the
wiser and indeed the only safe thing to do.
But we renew the assurance that it is only
a temporary delay. The need for a circu-
lating organ is too apparent to require ar-
gument. Similarly, the ever-growing im-
portance of the society and its work de-
mands that this official organ be worthy and
adequate in every sense. It may therefore
be taken for granted that on our part there


will be no cessation of effort to accomplish
the desired end;  and we rejoice in the con-
fidence that our friends and patrons on their
part will be equally persistent in yielding
financial assistance and hearty moral sup-
port in achieving an object so near to the
hearts of us all.


OFFICE FOR WOMEN.
	It has been quite noticeable that notwith-
standing Utah is the second oldest suffrage
state, her women hold fewer offices than
the other four states where suffrage ob-
tains. This fact is referred to at times with
some criticism.  The women themselves ex-
plain the matter that while they enjoy the
right of franchise they, generally speaking,
do not care for office, at any rate sufficiently
to enter the arena of politics and battle for
position.  Still it would only be justice to
that part of the voters, a possible half, and
all men must admit the better half, to place
at least one state office on each party ticket,
not to mention the county, city, and school
positions.  That those who seem to control
the work of the conventions and elections
have been anything but generous towards
the women of the state, is quite evident, and
especially was this noticeable at the recent
conventions held in this city, when the Dem-
ocratic party did not even nominate a woman
for place,  and the Republican party voted
down the one nominee whose name had
been presented—a woman admittedly capa-
ble in every particular, one who had been
tried and proven efficient as a county officer,
and one who would have filled the position
with dignity and credit.
	We have met similar defeats in elections
and appointments on school boards, posi-
tions where the service of women is espe-
cially needed and for which they would seem
especially fitted.  This fact is recognized
even in England and many of the eastern
states where suffrage does not yet exist; but
either from prejudice or thoughtlessness it
seems slow in making its way here. Ap-
peals alike to the justice and to the gal-
lantry of the sterner sex appear to be in
vain. Need they be surprised to awaken
some day and find that the women have
taken courage and entered the political
field for themselves and with the force of
the ballot set out to win the rights and posi-
tions desired?
	It is to be regretted that small excuses,
sometimes ridiculous ones, keep women
away from the primaries and the polls, the
two places where if they really desired to
hold office they ought to go. There are so
very many reforms necessary in social gov-
ernment in which women are especially in-
terested and for which they are constantly
working, that it is surprising to note their
apathy in political matters.  If the woman
bread earner is to have an equal chance
with the man bread earner in private em-
ployment, why not the same equal chance
in public office?  Let the ballot tell.


DR. ROBERTS’ NURSE CLASS.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts announces in
this issue of the EXPONENT that she will
again have a class in nursing and obstetrics.
We are pleased to draw attention to this
fact for we realize that there is great need
among the people generally for nurses and
midwives. The Relief Society especially


have many calls which they find impossible
to fill among the laboring classes who do
not ask for charity, work but feel unable to
pay the high prices of the hospital trained
nurse; furthermore, it is a great benefit to
every woman to have some knowledge of
physiology and hygiene; in fact in order to
be an intelligent and successful mother such
knowledge is absolutely necessary. We ac-
cordingly urge the sisters to assist in ob-
taining young women to take this course.
There are hundreds of graduates from Dr.
Roberts’ classes now practicing in different
localities with admirable success; and the
people everywhere are greatly benefited by
being able to obtain the services of these
efficient young women.


Dr. Harvey W. Wiley, in his recent ad-
dress before the Council of Jewish Women
at Pittsburg, Pa., spoke of the marked
growth of woman suffrage sentiment in the
country. He said that when he made his first
suffrage speech, in 1878, the question was
unpopular; but that today, if he were to
become a candidate for office, his being a
suffragist would help his election.


A PETITION.
“For an acceptable sacrifice bring me a broken
	heart and a contrite spirit.”
When Thou didst send me here on earth
	awhile,
Free was my spirit from all sin and guile;
Sweet are the mem’ries of those early years.
Yet in their passing, gathered doubts and
	fears;
Fallen the idols on life’s way, 
Gone are the dear ones of a brighter day,
And desolate, I bow,
And plead that in Thy pity, Thou
Wilt reach and find me.

Then—if a broken heart atone for all,
In Thy compassion, wilt thou hear my call?
Then—might I hear in voice of love Divine,
“All that I promised unto thee is thine;”
Then as a bird loosed from captivity
Singing soars upward, so would I be free
From griefs that blind me now—
And wake from death in joy, and Thou
Receive my spirit.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


MRS. SARAH PLATTE DECKER.
	The closing days of the recent biennial
held in San Francisco were very much
clouded by the sudden illness and death
of that beloved and useful woman, Mrs.
Sarah Platte Decker. Mrs. Decker had
been quite conspicuous in the early
sessions of the convention, but after
the trip taken through the Santa
Clara Valley it was noticed that her
strength was overtaxed, she suddenly be-
came very ill and physicians were sum-
moned. From the first her condition was
serious and following an operation which
was resorted to as the last hope, she passed
away. Mrs. Decker was an active woman
suffragist, for many years giving liberally
both of her time and means to the cause.
Largely through her efforts the Denver
Woman’s Club reached its high standard
among the leading clubs of American cities
and the national federation, recognizing her
ability, elected her president of the General
Federation in 1904. Mrs. Decker was one
of the foremost women of the nation, well
known as a tireless worker in many public
spirited movements. Her death caused
great sorrow and is certainly a severe loss
to the women of the nation.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		PAROWAN STAKE.
	The Parowan Stake conference convened
at Cedar City May 27, 1912, presided over
by President Mary E. Ollerton, with her
counselors and Stake board all present.
	Sisters Emily S. Richards and Julia P.
M. Farnsworth of the General Board were
present and gave some excellent counsel,
nstructions and encouragement to the sis-
ters.
	Fine musical numbers were rendered
during the three meetings held, also some
very good papers read.
	Several Other good speakers occupied a
short time.
	The Stake was reported in good condi-
tion.
	After the forenoon meeting an excellent
luncheon was served at the ward hall by
the sisters of Cedar City.
	A good spirit prevailed during the day
and evening, and the conference was very
much enjoyed by all present.
			LENA C. MORRIS,
					Stake Secretary.

		UINTAH  STAKE.
	The conference of the Uintah Stake Re-
lief Society was held in Jensen ward June
2, 1912.
	There were present on the stand Stake
President Don B. Colton and First Coun-
selor David Bennion, Patriarch Nelson
Merkley, members of the High Council, the
Ward Bishopric and many others besides the
Stake officers of the Relief Society. After
the opening exercises and the administering
of the sacrament the meeting was turned
over to the Relief Society, Stake President
Nancy M. Colton presiding.
	Sister Colton reported the Stake work
and gave good instructions to the sisters.
She drew attention to the Sego lily, which
was used in profusion for the decoration and
referred to the time when the people in dire
distress had found that the root of this plant
contained nourishment and had probably
prevented suffering when the people had
used it for food in the early settlement of
the state.
	A sketch of the life of Eliza R. Snow was
given by Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett. Instruc-
tive and entertaining remarks were made
by Mrs. Zina Dudley, President Don B. Col-
ton, Bishop Archie Richardson and others.
	During the services a fine musical pro-
gram was rendered.
			PHEBE A. MERKLEY,
							Secretary.

		BEAR RIVER STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference was held at
the Garland Social Hall, Jan. 12, 1912, at
10 and 2 o’clock respectively. Stake Presi-
dent Milton H. Welling, Bishops K. H.
Fridahl and R. G. Watt, Elder W. Wallace
of the Stake Religion Class, Sisters Alice
Merrill Horne and Sarah McClelland, of
the General Board, were present, also nine
Stake Board members and a very good rep-
resentation of officers and members from
each of the twelve societies.
	President Margaret W. Manning pre-
sided. The opening and closing prayers of
the forenoon session were offered by Bish- 
ops K. H. Fridahl and R. G. Watt respec-
tively, while Sister Mary A. Green and

[Column 2]
Elder W. Wallace offered the opening and
closing prayers of the afternoon session.
	President M. W. Manning gave a very
favorable report of the condition of the
Relief Society in the Stake, showing by the
splendid attendance at the monthly officers’
meeting that the sisters are interested in
their work. Ninety-three dollars was read-
ily given and forwarded for the relief of
the flood and famine sufferers. During the
month of May sixteen days had been spent
in the temple by Relief Society sisters from
the Bear River Stake.
	Stake Treasurer Anna W. Larson con-
ducted an exercise, illustrating the “Home
Work” She told a beautiful story, shew-
ing the lasting influence of early stories,
songs, thoughts, etc., on young minds. Also
gave a practical story that correlated with
the song, “Sweeping and Dusting,” which
the congregation sang.
	President Milton H. Welling made en-
couraging remarks and commended the sis-
ters for their faithful and energetic work
in the Relief Society.
	Sisters Horne and McClelland each very
ably addressed both sessions of the confer-
ence. Sister McClelland, having been a
missionary, cited many interesting incidents
connected with her work and especially in-
terested her audience with a detailed account
of her visit to Nauvoo and surrounding
places connected with the early history of
the Latter-day Saints. Sister Horne, in
speaking of individual possibilities, said:
“We all have them and it is for us to de-
velop them and help to develop them in
others. We can all go to Heaven if we
want to, and we can make Heaven here on
earth by right living. We should look for
the beautiful in nature and in the whole
world.”
	During the afternoon session, Sister Essie
E. Foulger very beautifully rendered the
vocal solo, “Babylon,” and Master Earl
Evans gave a piano selection in an able
manner.
	An excellent spirit prevailed during both
sessions of the conference and those who
gave parts on the program were attentively
listened to by the audience.
	During the intermission a refreshing
lunch, that had been prepared by the sisters
from the various wards, was served by the
Garland Relief Society sisters.
	Ex-President, Julia A. Richards showed
that her thoughts and love were with us
by sending some beautiful flowers which
brightened the room and the spirits of those
present.
	We were also made glad by the message
from “Aunt Em” and the General Board
that their love and blessing were extended
to us in our work.
			ALICE S. LARSON,
					Stake Secretary.

		ONEIDA STAKE.
	Minutes of annual conference of the
Oneida Stake Relief Society held at Pres-
ton, May 19, 1912, in the Stake house, Pres-
ident Louisa B. Benson presiding.
	There were present Alice M. Horne and
Jennie A. Hyde of the General Board; Stake
President Joseph S. Geddes, other leading
brethren and 310 people.
	The singing was furnished by the Stake
choir under Prof. Charles Engar. Singing,
“Now Let Us Rejoice,” etc. Prayer, Elder
John Larson. Singing, “Our Mountain

[Column 3]
Home So Dear.” Roll call denoted 20
societies represented. President Benson
welcomed all and gave a brief general re-
port which denoted progress in the “Moth-
ers’” work and increase in enrollment. The
above welcome was beautifully responded
to by Meda Nelson.
	Statistical and financial report for the
year ending Dec. 31, 1911, read and ap-
proved. Secretary Phebe A. M. McNiel
reported the societies of the Stake as being
in satisfactory condition. Choir sang
“Count Your Blessings.”
	Mrs. Alice M. Horne addressed the con-
ference on the subject of the Relief Society,
bettering the conditions of the home, the
world, and of its power to give cheer and
comfort, and of the power of the individual
over self; and said: “Salvation will only
be obtained as we conquer self; the giant
‘greed’ must be banished and humility and
charity cultivated.”
	Mrs. Jennie A. Hyde gave greetings from
President E. B. Wells to the people of
Oneida Stake; was delighted to see so many
brethren present; spoke of the loving min-
istrations of the Relief Society teachers.
	President Joseph Geddes appreciated the
words of the sisters; spoke of the privilege
of living in this day; hoped all gloried in
the gospel and would live up to the light
within; advised all to be courageous and
prayerful.
	President Benson urged the Relief Socie-
ties to at once take up the work of assisting
the flood sufferers.
	Singing, “If There’s Sunshine in Your
Heart.”
	Benediction, Alice M. Horne.

		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Singing, “Awake, Ye Saints of God,
Awake.”
	Prayer, Elder S. H. Hale.
	Singing, “Sweet Is the Peace the Gospel
Brings.”
	Sacrament was next administered. 
	There were present 13 bishops and 695
people.
	Reading, “A Thread of Thought,” by
Melissa Maughan.
	Mrs. Jennie A. Hyde expressed joy at
seeing so many of the priesthood and such
a vast audience present; spoke of woman’s
power, the Savior breaking her estate of
thralldom, and advised her to live up to her
privilege and merit all blessings. Asked all
to seek the better part, the gifts of the
gospel and become broader and better.
	Solo, “Fear Not Ye, O Israel,” Sarah
Gerard.
	Alice M. Horne spoke of her early life;
her desire and struggle for an education;
said, “Every soul who comes to earth has
the power to progress and gain knowledge
if they will but try;” spoke of the blessings
our sorrows often are; how God-like it is
to reach out a helping hand to those in dis-
tress; advised all to seek for truth and
grasp all opportunities.
	State School Superintendent Nelson of
Utah spoke on education. Among other
good things he said: “Every individual
owes it to himself and his fellowman to de-
velop himself and find his true vocation.”
“Every true mother is a queen in the earth.”
	General and Stake officers were sustained.
	Singing, “Grant Us Peace.”
	Benediction, by Coun. Taylor.
			PHEBE A. M. MCNIEL,
							Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SOME OLD LOVE LETTERS.
	The romance of life helps one to bear its
burdens; matter of fact people to the con-
trary notwithstanding. And perhaps one
of the most interesting things that invaria-
bly lends charm to real life is a love letter,
whether it is a few words ungrammatically
written, or an epistle filled with the choicest
language; it matters not if the person by
whom the words were penned is capable of
pouring into the composition the true elo-
quence of the soul, it finds its counterpart
in the heart of the receiver, and is forever
cherished among the most valuable treas-
ures. I am aware of the old saying, it is
easy to put things on paper, but it is also
tolerably easy to discern whether the heart
is in it or not. There may be exceptions to
this rule as there are to all others, but many
a happy union has been consummated be-
cause of some outpouring of the human
heart on paper; and many a reconciliation
has been effected through a love letter
where a misunderstanding or a lover’s quar-
rel had existed. Some strange things have
happened too, worth relating for the amuse-
ment of a winter evening, for though we
speak of Spring as the lover’s season, and
there is not a month in all the year more
appropriate for weddings or when more
unions are consummated than “June the
month of roses and love,” yet the courting
has been done beforehand in the long winter
evenings and finished off possibly in the
lovely Spring time, with the perfume of
violets in the air and the sweet songs of the
wild birds in their ecstacy, nest building;
by the brink of some mossy brook or flow-
ing fountain, or under the apple boughs 
when the pink and white blossoms were
fluttering to the ground. But apropos of
old love letters we have a most enchanting
tale to tell.
	In the old-fashioned houses of the
last century there was generally a garret
and these places were the repository of
everything that the family wanted to put
out of sight, and occasionally some treasure
would be lost among the heaps of rubbish
carried up there, when the clearing up or
house cleanings were in progress.
	This story is a very old one, and has not
been put in a book or published to the world
before, so that although it is old it will
nevertheless be as good as new, for it has
been well-kept. The principal actors in the
pretty drama are dead long ago, but we do
not even at this late date feel justified in
giving their real names.
	A little girl prying about among the old
lumber in the garret at her grandmother’s
one day, hunting doll rags, found a bundle
of old letters tied with a very faded and
soiled yellow lute-string ribbon wound so
many times around it that she thought it
would make a sash for her dolly and pro-
ceeded forthwith to untie the knots, and
scatter the letters among the rubbish, never
dreaming that in so doing, she was divulg-
ing a secret or disclosing a treachery. But
so it proved.
	“Where in the world did you get that
ribbon?” said Aunt Dorothy one day to her
little grand niece who was playing with her
dolly in the drawing-room, and then such a
crowd of memories came rushing back as
she took the once pretty ribbon in her fin-
gers, fondling it, that little Helen suspected
she had done something naughty, but the
child was on the best of terms with Aunt

[Column 2]
Dorothy, and as if to make reparation said,
“I found it in the garret and washed it for
my new doll, it was tied in such hard knots
around a bundle of old papers with ink so
faded no one could ever read them.” “What
did you do with them, child ?” said Aunt
Dorothy, excitedly. “I threw them down
again in the corner with a whole lot of other
things.” “You didn’t tear them then nor
burn them up?” “O, no, why I thought
grandma wouldn’t like that; I only wanted
the pretty ribbon; such a nice pattern.”
“Very odd,” replied Aunt Dorothy, in an
absent way, and was soon slowly and
thoughtfully wending her way up the stair-
case, and then on again to the garret, talk-
ing to herself as she went; “I wonder what
letters could have been hid away up there
for all these years. It’s forty years or more
since I wore that ribbon, how happy I was
then and what a bright future I anticipated,
and then came those evil days, when a dark
shadow lurked in the horizon which sur-
rounded me. O, why have these remem-
brances come back; just at the sight of a
faded ribbon?” Sure enough, why do those
tender days that are gone come back and
haunt us, when we have groped blindly
through the darkness and sorrow and find
ourselves calmed by tile distance that divides
us from the dismal past!’ Thus musing,
Miss Dorothy Vose mounted the last step
and surveyed the garret searchingly; she
went through pile after pile of cast off cloth-
ing, etc., and just as the last rays of the
setting sun shed their pale yellow light in
through the open window, she discovered
some papers peeping from out a corner and
tremblingly reached out to take the shat-
tered workbox containing them, for such it
proved to be in her hands. She shook like
an aspen tree as she lifted it, and it fell in
fragments at her feet, and out from the
papers rolled down among the rubbish on
the floor a ring with a glowing setting.
For a moment she seemed stunned, a great
sob came swelling up in her throat, and her
mouth was dry and parched, and she sank
down, upon the floor as pathetically as if
she had been a beautiful young girl still in
her teens, instead of an old maid of half a
century.
	But no one would have guessed her age,
for she was still strikingly handsome and
exquisitely neat in her dress, and had that
sort of delicate way of adjusting everything
that we call stylish, the draping of her brown
silk dress lay about her in soft folds; and
with her eyes suffused with tears, she gazed
wonderingly upon the lost ring she had
found after all these long years. So many
times she had ransacked boxes, drawers and
closets, in possible and impossible places,
and now it had come to light too late, when
her hair was silvered o’er and her eyes faded
with weeping. An emerald ring, engraved
“D. V.” from “E. L.,” such a peculiar
shape, a rare beauty she had once thought,
and now what a train of recollections it
brought back, how well she remembered the
night, he had given it to her under the great
elm tiee, in the yard, and pledged his faith,
his honor, the devotion, of a life time, and
begged her to be his promised bride, and
with maiden blushes, and modest downcast
eyes more eloquent than words, she had
given him his silent answer. The few
months that followed the betrothal had been
full of sweetness and the tenderest associa-
tion lovers could enjoy whose sentiments
were so near akin. But in their case the

[Column 3]
old adage proved true, “The course of true
love never runs smooth.”
	But we must not leave Aunt Dorothy
shivering in the garret while we go over her
past life, and tell what befell her, and why
she was a lonely old maid in the home of
her childhood, where the third generation
was now growing up, instead of being a
happy grandmother like her sister-in-law
who was only a few years older. 
	Singular coincidences sometimes tran-
spire that night almost leads us to believe
in the fatuity of certain events acting upon
each other years had passed by since, any-
thing had happened to call up these tender
reminiscences in Aunt Dorothy’s past and
now just a faded old ribbon had awakened
a torrent of emotions, and a flood of events
came rushing onward.
	The shades of evening were falling and
Miss Vose gathered up the broken box and
scraps of paper in her black silk apron, and
fled down the stairs to her own room as
though all the ghosts of those haunted
memories were following her. Once in her
chamber with the door securely fastened,
she picked up piece by piece the broken
workbox where these papers had been hid-
den away. She knew the box well, it had
been a handsome one inlaid with pearl, but
now fallen apart, disclosing its contents.
But how came the ring in the possession
of the owner of the box; that was a mystery
she could never expect to unravel, not even
if she could make up her mind to read the
letters, which she hardly dared to think of
yet though they were in her keeping. She
took the faded fragments one by one and
laid them together, and the broken box and
put them in a drawer and turned the key as
if to shut them out of her sight, and away
from the temptation of reading them. Her
face was paler than usual, and her limbs
quivered as she descended to the dining-
room when supper was announced, but ap-
parently no one noticed anything unusual
in her face or manner except little Helen,
who had not forgotten how strangely her
aunt had questioned her about the yellow
ribbon, and when they were leaving the
table the child approached her saying, “Are
you ill, Aunt Dorothy?” “No child, not ill,
only thinking, thinking of the long ago,
when I wore the faded yellow ribbon.”
“Were you a little girl then like me?” in-
quired the little grand-niece. “O, no, I was
a young lady with great expectations ” said
Aunt Dorothy with a strong emphasis on
the two last words. Little Helen looked
puzzled, but with childish persistency she
pursued her inquiries: “Was that when your
picture was painted that hangs in grandpa’s
room over his desk?” “My picture was
painted so long ago I really don’t know. I
never look at it.” “It is not like your mam-
ma’s, Aunt Dorothy, is it?” “Yes, a little.”
“I believe you had the yellow ribbon on,
that’s what made you take so much notice of
it when you saw it today.” Miss Vose was
glad the child was satisfied and soon after
retired for the night; she could not, how-
ever, yet make up her mind to read the
letters, a sort of dread of discovering some
disagreeable secret seemed to forbid the
perusal. She tried in vain to sleep, the
wretched past came so vividly to mind, that
the gray dawn of morning found her still
tossing upon her pillows, her head aching
and eyelids heavy with weeping. Finally,
she fell asleep; the bright sunshine stream-
ing into her room awoke her, and she


[Column 1]
started up suddenly but lay down for a
moment or two and thought over again the
dream from which she had been aroused.
She had certainly had a remarkable dream.
	At the breakfast table the family noticed
her pale face and languid manner and anx-
iously inquired what the matter was, for
they all dearly loved Aunt Dorothy; she
replied perhaps the peculiar dream she had
that morning was the cause, and her brother
and his daughter joined in the request that
she should tell the dream.
	And she related it as follows: “I dreamed
a stranger came to the house and told us of
some golden plates, that had been shown by
an angel to a young man, who had handled
them and had seen the characters engraved
upon them in a language not known to him,
but afterwards had translated them by the
inspiration of the Holy Ghost, and the trans-
lation had been published in a book; and he
had the book with him and showed it to us,
and then the scene changed and we were in
the woods about a mile from here where
the river is deep between those big rocks,
and the same stranger stood in the water
and baptized us all, and I shivered with
cold and woke with the sun shining into
my room.”
	“Dorothy,” said her brother, addressing
her, “did you know the man who came
bearing this Gospel message?” Dorothy
replied rather reluctantly, “I think I did, it
was one we knew intimately in days gone
by.” Mr. Vose knew very well what his
sister meant when she spoke thus, for they
never had mentioned his name for years,
even to each other. “I cannot think why I
should dream of him after all these long
years, but it was a singular dream, don’t
you think so?” “Very strange, but then
you must not think of it, you look quite ill
and sad, and if you brood over such hal-
lucinations and night visions, you will be
getting ‘the blues’ in earnest.”
	Dorothy did not tell her brother how she
had found the missing ring and the letters
the day before, reason enough why she
should dream of her old lover, but during
the day the dream and the reality both
troubled her, and she resolved to put an end
to her imaginary fears by going over the
old letters to see why they had been left
behind, when those whom she was sure they
most concerned had fled like fugitives and
had never returned.
	What was that lady’s amazement when
she put on her spectacles and looked at the
papers to find one of her own letters, ad-
dressed to Miss Dorothy Vose, Shutesbury,
Mass. It was sealed with a pink wafer and
on it was the initial “L.” She paused in a
tremor of excitement. Why had this letter
lain there all these years hidden away from
her, and she unknowing of its ever having
been written. She could not open it now,
it seemed too much joy—and yet she knew
not what it contained, but it was from Ed-
ward, her lover—O, so long ago—and yet
she could never hear his name, without her
heart beating more rapidly and her face
betraying the emotion felt within.
	She took up the fragments of paper one
by one, and found some in his handwriting
addressed to Miss Mary Stacy, her cousin
and rival, she could not and would not read
them, she fancied she knew the purport of
their contents. Her own letter she kissed
again and again, and tried to summon
courage to read it, she had no need to break
the pretty seal, for the corners were worn

[Column 2]
and it was easy to open the folds, for those
were not the days of envelopes, remember;
she turned the letter over and over, until a
curl of pretty auburn hair fell from it, and
she could no longer resist the desire to see
what he had written in the long ago.
	The auburn curl was more than the em-
erald ring, for it was part of himself; he
might be dead, she knew not; but this pretty
curl was something she could keep; how
vexed she had felt when Helen found the
ribbon, but now how glad, it had led to the
unfolding of a mystery, the lost ring, and
the auburn curl, two treasures she would
cherish while life lasted; the hatred and
jealousy of her cousin were gone now,
though the sorrow had never left her heart,
but she had long ago forgiven them both,
and would have been glad to know if they
were still living, for love outlives envy,
jealousy and rivalry, it is purer, and better,
and more enduring.
	And the letter, methinks I hear you say;
it was hours before dear Aunt Dorothy had
the courage to open its folds. It was like a
message from an unknown region, out of
the beautiful past. At last she took up the
scraps and put them together, for as she
tried to open it the pieces fell apart—and
her heart almost stood still while she gazed
upon the words—“Miss Dorothy Vose once
my affianced wife:” the letter was dated
Boston, Mass., Jan., 1805, and in it he
poured out in burning words his love, his
disappointment, reproaching her for incon-
stancy and entreating her to accept a lock
of his hair, that in some lonely hour when
she had forgotten his devotion she might be
reminded of him; the ring he had given her
he asked her to keep but never to wear it
again, as it had been a pledge of mutual
love and constancy as well as of their be-
trothal.
	In conclusion he said: “I have long been
aware that your cousin Mary loved me, and
when she returns to Boston, if I hear no
more from you, I shall ask her hand in mar-
riage. If I cannot win the heart of her
whom I have chosen out of all the world,
I will devote myself to making another
happy, who loves me with unutterable ten-
derness. Farewell! and if we never meet
again remember that you have driven me
from you with your pride and hauteur.”
	The words were cruel and hastily penned
no doubt, but poor Dorothy never had the
opportunity to reply to them nor had she
even known that Edward deigned to make
any explanation of his singular conduct.
	It was true that Ma[-]y loved him, she had
never disguised her feelings in her cousin’s
presence, though she was her guest and
aware of the engagement. Dorothy saw
her lover d[---] away from her, and her
modesty and r[---]cence kept her from any
demonstration of her suffering. Edward
attributed it to coldness and indifference.
Mary was well versed in the art of coquet-
ry, and it was an easy matter to win her
country cousin’s lover; her heart was in the
matter, too, for though she had gone
through two or three gay seasons, since she
became of age, no one had ever interested
her like Edward Laselle.
	He was indeed a brilliant young man,
with bright prospects in store and it was not
strange that she should love him, but he
was blind not to see that behind the reserve
of Miss Dorothy there was a depth of senti-
ment that her cousin Mary was incapable of
feeling; she was a gay butterfly of fashion,

[Column 3]
fond of dancing and society, while her
country cousin was staid and womanly, fond
of home-life and ready to make sacrifices
for the happiness of others instead of seek-
ing her own.
	But we will not go back into the details
of the occurrences that had left Miss Doro-
thy alone in the old home, there is no need,
for in a short time after the finding of the
letter and the ring, her dream came to pass
literally.
	One Sabbath evening in mid-winter the
family were seated round the fire talking
over the sermon they had heard that day,
and Aunt Dorothy expressed some dissatis-
faction as to the genuineness of the preach-
er: “It did not come from his heart,” she
argued, and was therefore ineffective; “what
would I give to hear the voice of a true
preacher of righteousness?” added the lady,
and she continued, “hear the Scriptures ex-
pounded as I understand them; I am weary
of the tone and manner of our orthodox
ministers, it has grown monotonous to me.”
“Dorothy,” said her brother, who was the
only one who ever dared to disagree with
the lady, “don’t you think you are growing
very extreme in your ideas? Is there any-
thing that comes up to your standard of ex-
cellence? Aren’t you looking for a miracle?
Remember these are not the days of the
Savior and his Apostles, though we do pro-
fess to be his followers.”
	“Yes, but we’ve all gone astray, priests
and people, and for me I am longing for
something stronger to lean upon than these
fragmentary discourses that have no soul in
them; there is nothing Christ-like about
them,” replied his sister.
	How many in this country and across the
sea in other lands were influenced about that
period, and since, by the spirit of the times;
a forerunner of what was about to transpire!
	That very evening after the conversation
here related and other remarks upon the
same subject, the great old-fashioned
knocker on the front door made a clanging
sound echoing through the house, and when
the door was opened two strangers in heavy
overcoats and frosty beards announcing
themselves as missionaries asked for a
night’s lodging.
	They were not kept out in the cold air
many seconds, for this was a hospitable
house and being a little distance from the
town, travelers often stopped for dinner or
over night. When the gentlemen were
ushered into the warm sittingroom, they
were kindly greeted by the master and mis-
tress as well as the younger members of the
household and Mr. Vose inquired if they
had taken supper. Something in the voice
of the elder man sounded familiar to the
host, and he said: “Are you from a dis-
tance? You seem like a Western man, but,”
and he directed his glance to the first
speaker, “your accent is decidedly Eastern.”
Laselle, for it was he, could no longer con-
ceal his identity, no matter what sort of re-
ception he might receive; he had come pur-
posely, though thinking after so many
years he might not be recognized. He re-
plied to Mr. Vose that he was from the
West, but formerly resided in Boston; that
in days gone by he had been "quite a reg-
ular visitor in this very house.”
	“And you come here now for shelter and
as a missionary preaching the word of the
Lord, after the deception [-]ou practiced, be-
traying the confidence of my sister,”—Be-
fore he could finish the sentence Dorothy


[Column 1]
Vose had risen to her feet and with the same
complacent dignity that had characterized
her throughout her whole life, she inter-
posed, “My dear brother, these men are our
guests for tonight, do not expose our family
affairs to them, nor here before these young
people. Let us speak soberly together and
apart if needs be.” Edward Laselle looked
like one amazed; he had also risen to his
feet when Mr. Vose accosted him in that
recriminating tone, in fact he had expected
a scene of some sort, though until he entered
the house that evening he knew not if Dor-
othy was living or dead, nor whether the
place was in possession of any he had
formerly been acquainted with; but he had
been sent out into the New England States
to preach the Gospel and his footsteps had
led him there.
	The explanations that followed that night
were satisfactory as far as was now possi-
ble. Alone in the old familiar parlor where
they had sat many an evening in “the long
ago,” though somewhat modernized now,
Edward Laselle and Dorothy Vose, with
her brother, talked over the events of the
past so closely interwoven with their lives.
She explained to him how only a few days
before she had found the lost ring, then
the unopened letter, though she did not
mention the auburn curl; Edward betrayed
much more emotion than she did, and Mr.
Vose was perhaps quite as much astonished
as either. Mr. Laselle did not offer any
solution of the unexplained mystery, not
did he ask if Miss Vose was still single, he
seemed fearful of venturing upon untried
ground; but Dorothy, who had seen him in
a dream, inquired what his mission was,
and what book he had under his arm when
he came into the room. Thus a conversa-
tion began that lasted for hours and was
renewed again in the early morning.
	When Aunt Dorothy retired for the night
she had much to reflect upon that was new
to her. It was the beginning of the fulfill-
ment of her dream; she was impressed with
the testimony borne to her by the “Mor-
mon” Elder and so was her brother; they
believed the truth as soon as it was made
known to them. How wonderful it all
seemed! Had Mr. Laselle arrived at the
house previous to the discovery of the letter
he would have been turned away without a
hearing, but the finding of the ring and the
letter had so softened the heart of Miss
Dorothy, that she was willing to bury all
old grievances and make him welcome. It
was not long before all the household were
ready for baptism and as Aunt Dorothy
dreamed so it came to pass, that the ice was
cut up in the woods between the big rocks
and there on a peaceful Sabbath morning
one week from the date of their arrival the
whole Vose family were baptized by Ed-
ward Laselle, the “Mormon” Elder. The
Elders had remained in that vicinity during
the week preaching every evening and ex-
pounding the doctrines of the Church as
opportunities offered. There were several
others besides the Vose family that received
baptism, and ere long a branch of the
Church was organized.
	Before Edward Laselle left the neighbor-
hood he sought an interview with Miss Dor-
othy Vose which she granted him. He
learned when she was baptized that she was
still only plain Miss Dorothy Vose, and he
was desirous naturally of learning more,
and yet he felt he had no claim upon her
confidence. The interview he sought was

[Column 2]
cheerfully granted him in the old parlor,
and there he told the story of his life.
	Not obtaining any reply to his letter and
confidently believing her to be too proud to
relent, or perchance in love with another, he
had asked Mary Stacy to be his wife and
she had consented without hesitation or re-
serve. Almost immediately after their
marriage they had taken “the Western
fever” and had gone out to Ohio.
	There at an early period after the Church
was established in Kirtland he had heard
the Gospel and embraced it, and ever since
that time he had been a firm believer and
advocate of its principles. When he was
called to go out as a missionary his appoint-
ment was to the New England States, and
his inclination had led him to visit the
scenes of his youth.
	Mary his wife had been dead a number
of years, his daughters had kept house for
him, but they were all married now and he
was quite alone.
	And so in the same old parlor Edward
and Dorothy forgave each other, “kissed
and made up;” we will leave the rest to the
readers’ imagination and only tell them
that this time they married, and Dorothy
consoled herself with the thought that had
it not been for the misunderstanding be-
tween them, Edward would probably not
have been a “Mormon,” nor would she
have had the privilege of hearing the glad
tidings. And if she had not found the old
love letters, she would have allowed her
brother to send him away that Sabbath
evening as he fully intended to do. There
might be another story written on their mar-
ried life and what happened, but we only
add, that the Vose family gathered with the
Saints along with many others from that
vicinity.					E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


It is utterly impossible to express, in
words, the deep regret we feel in not being
able at this time to bring out a woman’s
magazine suited to the needs and condi-
tions of the women of the Relief Society,
which is the most representative organiza-
tion of its kind in the world. We most
cordially invite the members of this Soci-
ety, and more particularly the younger
women, to contribute articles to the paper
on such subjects as are suited to the young
mothers, also poems and other literary mat-
ter namely, short stories, etc. The lives
and experiences of Mormon women are re-
plete with incidents for story-telling that
would interest all those who delight in ver-
satile reading.
					THE EDITOR.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Eliza Ann Okerlund, a faithful worker in
the Relief Society, died on June 22, 1912,
and the Loa ward Relief Society lost one
of its most beloved workers. In her honor
the following resolutions were passed:


RESOLUTIONS IN HONOR OF SISTER ELIZA ANN
			OKERLUND.
	Whereas, In the allwise providence of our
Heavenly Father it has pleased Him to call
from our midst Sister Eliza Ann Okerlund,
second counselor of the Relief Society in the
Loa ward.
	Therefore, Be it resolved that in the pass-
ing away of our beloved sister, we, the
officers and members of said association, are
bereft of a wise counselor and a cheerful and
loving associate.
	Sister Lida was ever ready at the call of
duty, no matter what her physical suffering
might have been. She carried not only her
own burdens but lightened those of others.
The needy and the suffering ones always found
in her “A Ministering Angel” in the truest
sense of the word. Her gentle presence filled
[-]he home with comfort and delight.
	Resolved, That we mourn the loss of Sister
Okerlund and appreciate the worthy example
set by her. We, her sisters and co-laborers,
extend to her bereaved husband and children
our heartfelt sympathy and pray God to com-
fort them in their great sorrow.
	Be It Further Resolved, That one copy of
these resolutions be presented to the family
of the deceased, one copy sent to her son Ivin,
who has just departed to fill a mission to the
Eastern States, a copy be sent for publication
to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and one copy be
placed on file in our Relief Society.
	We, the following, sign in behalf of the Loa
Relief Society.
				JAMIMA HOOD,
				EMILY BLACKBURN,
				ROSA M. LAZENBY.


The Bishop of Oxford at the Represen-
tative Church Council in England a few days
ago, made a motion to include the votes of
women in the election of representatives in
various church conferences. He added that,
as women were doing nine-tenths of the
work of the church, their exclusion from the
right to vote on matters which so intimate-
ly and obviously concerned them was really
scandalous.


SCHOOL IN NURSING
				AND
			OBSTETRICS

	DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS
will commence her school in Nursing Monday,
September 23, 1912. Course continues eight
months. Class in Obstetrics will start Octo-
ber 10, 1912. (Those who study Obstetrics are
required to attend the Nurse Class. No extra
charge.)
Terms for Nursing.............................$25.00
Terms for Obstetrics..........................$50.00
Approximate cost of text books, $5.00 to $8.00
	Every young woman may not wish to be a
Nurse, yet to know herself physically is im-
portant to every woman. The instructions
given in these classes will better prepare
woman for the high duties of wifehood and
motherhood.
	For further information, write to
		DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS,
Bell Phone 2002. 79 C St., Salt Lake City.

R K. THOMAS CO., 67-69 MAIN STREET,
					SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
