Vol. 47.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1913			No. 8.


CONTENTS.
Julia Cruse Howe.........................................	57
An Interesting Letter....................................	59
The Utah Chautauqua..................................	59
Aunt Lenora Morley....................................	59
Taking a Stand for the Right......Ida S. Peay	61
Sketch of the East Bountiful Relief Society	62
A Visit to Nauvoo.......................................	62
“Well Done, Good and Faithful Servant”
............................................Lydia D. Alder	64
The N. E. A................................................	64
Relief Society Reports:
	Yellowstone Stake..............................	63
	Los Angeles Branch...........................	63
	Nebo Stake.........................................	63
Editorial:
	General Relief Society Conference...	60
In Memoriam:
	Mary Jane White Hinman.................	58
	Ellen Thueson....................................	58
	Annie W. Larson................................	64
	Emma Smith Featherstone.................	64
Poetry:
	An Exile’s Prayer...............................	57
	Evening..............................................	59


AN EXILE’S PRAYER.
		(Inscribed to F. L. J.)
Father in heaven, hear the exile’s prayer,
A prayer of thousands scattered where, oh
	where.
Our feet are weary, in strange paths we roam,
Our hearts are aching for the dear old home.
We long to see the morning sun arise
Painting in rainbow tints the deep blue skies;
The bright rays glancing through the green
	pine trees,
Their sylvan music floating on the breeze.
Just as we’ve watched and lingered many a
	year
To see a new day dawning, bright and clear,
Dispelling gloom, and every shade of night,
As in the morning of creation’s light.
We long for each loved valley, mount and plain
To hear the children’s voices there again;
The hazy moonlight, and dear evening star,
They do not seem the same, so far, so far,
From the home shrines our willing hands have
	reared
Hearts all undaunted, that no danger feared;
And Thou hast blest us, and we trust Thee
	still,
Schooling our feelings to Thy righteous will.
We long to climb the hills and gather flowers
Blooming in nature’s own sweet sunny bowers;
We long for mountain peak, and grassy plain;
We long to hear our own wild birds again.
Once more to till the soil, to sow and reap,
To cheer the hearts that sorrow now, and weep,
To gather home again our scattered band,
And help reclaim our desecrated land.
We fain would clasp each hand, and hear the
	song
Of jubilee ring out deep, clear and strong,
To gather ’neath our church’s shadowy wing
To hear our choir the songs of Zion sing.
There rest our loved ones free from every care
Beneath the waving grass, and flowers fair;
Sacred the spot, so dear to every heart;
These, too, are of our lives and souls a part.
Here by the wayside, our beloved sleep;
By the lone grave we sorrow still, and weep;
Our Father whisper peace and heal our pain,
Help us to live, until we meet again.
Fond memories cling around those days, we
	never can forget,
Where e’er we are, where e’er we roam until
	life’s sun is set;
For deep heart throbs were woven into that
	web of life,
Where mingle threads of anguish, pain and
	joy and strife.


Hearts still will throb and tremble, when love's
	fingers touch the strings;
Sweet music blend with sorrow, where a lin-
	gering cadence rings;
Our mountains, rivers, valleys cast a halo on
	the soul,
That will touch the hills eternal, when life's
	billows cease to roll.
						S. E. R.,
April 28, 1913.		Mesa City, Arizona.


[Column 1]
		JULIA CRUSE HOWE.
	“Sweet thoughts are mirrored in her face
	And every motion is a grace.”
	Sincerely indeed, will these words find re-
sponse in the hearts of those readers whose
privilege it has been to come within the 
charmed circle whom Sister Howe calls
friends. To the writer, she has always 
seemed the embodiment of gentle dignity in
which refinement and culture and natural 
grace were combined.
	Having just completed her ninetieth year,
she is one of the few who are left to us
from among that group of close friends
which included Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H.
Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Elmina S.
Taylor, Presindia L. Kimball, M. Isabella
Horne, Sarah M. Kimball, Hannah T. King,
Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Maria W. Wilcox,
Elizabeth Howard, and our dear “Aunt
Em” Wells, most of whose names are found 
inscribed with loving tributes in the auto-
graph album of Sister Howe.
	To one born in Utah, after the pioneer
stage was passed, the life story of a woman
like Sister Howe is full of peculiar interest,
although much must of necessity be omitted
in one brief sketch.
	Julia Cruse was born at Boxford, near
Newberry, Berkshire, England, on the sev-
enteenth of June, 1823. Her parents were 
James and Mary Joyce Cruse, and to them
were born six girls and one boy, of which
children Julia was the youngest.
	A religious influence pervaded their
home. The children were taught to read

[Column 2]
the scriptures; family prayer was conducted
morning and evening, and the parents lived 
up to the best light and knowledge they
possessed. In spite of this condition, Julia
was not satisfied. “She to higher hopes
was destined,—in a finer mould was
wrought, and tempered with a purer flame.”
	The teachings in the Church of England
concerning infant baptism and hell were
responsible for her state of mind, and she
could not see the justice in condemning
pure little children to everlasting punish-
ment merely because parents failed to have
them christened. The death of a beloved 
companion who had not been christened
was also a great source of sorrow to Julia
because of this belief.
	While grieving for her friend and think-
ing she had gone to hell, Julia had a dream 
in which she went in a beautiful chariot to 
a city whose streets were paved with gold,
and all else was in keeping. As a jeweled
door swung open for Julia to enter one of
the mansions, she awoke with the thought
that she had visited Heaven and her ideas
were so changed thereby that she grieved
for her friend no more.
	Owing to ill health, several years of the
young girl’s life were spent with a married
sister, on the Isle of Wight.
	She became engaged to a young man of
good character and returned home to pre-
pare for her marriage.
	She found the household in confusion and 
her mother in tears because an older sister
had “disgraced” the family by joining the
“Mormons.”
	Her father being spiritually minded, said
to the weeping mother, “He that judgeth a 
matter before hearing it, is not wise.”
	Being thoroughly familiar with the
scriptures, but a short time was needed to 
convince Julia that her sister’s belief was in
accordance therewith, and soon she became
converted and was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on April
6th, 1849, and afterward both her parents 
joined the Church.
	An estrangement now having come be-
tween herself and her betrothed, Julia and
her sister left England for America in June,
1849.
	Before they left England, her father
blessed the daughters and to Julia, gave 
the promise that she should live to do a 
work of great importance, that her parents
would not live to accomplish. Upon arriv-
ing in America the Cruse sisters located in
St. Louis, Missouri, where they passed
through many interesting and some trying 
experiences, one being a fire which burned
almost everything they had, but through
the assistance of warm friends and their
own efforts they were soon made comfort-
able again.
	While in St. Louis, Julia met Amos
Howe, a skilled mechanic who was identi-
fied with the local branch of the Church.
In June, 1850, she became his wife, and for
fourteen years the Howes lived in St. Louis
and New York, where Mr. Howe was en-
gaged in construction work involving great


[Column 1]
responsibility, and where his superior abili-
ties along this line were highly appreciated.
	During these years five children were
born to them. The eldest two died in in-
fancy, leaving three sons, Edgar, George,
and Charles.
	They kept open house for the Elders and
had the pleasure of entertaining many dis-
tinguished members of our Church, among
them being Apostles Erastus Snow, George
A. Smith and Joseph F. Smith.
	In 1864 they came to Utah, locating in
Salt Lake City, where they found a warm
welcome awaiting them by the many whom
they had so hospitably entertained. Mr.
Howe became one of the strong business
men of the community.
	Sister Julia has been an indefatigable
worker in the various Church organiza-
tions, almost from the time they were be-
gun, until failing health and advanced age
necessitated quiet and rest.
	She acted as a teacher and afterward as
treasurer of the Seventeenth Ward Relief
Society. She organized a sewing class to
assist the Relief Society, which was called
the Junior Retrenchment association, and
this afterward became the Mutual Improve-
ment Association, of which Sister Howe
was President, for quite a number of years.
When the Primary Associations were estab-
lished she was made President of the Ward
association, and she served also as an aid
in the Relief Society Board of the old Salt
Lake Stake. She was a Sunday School
teacher for many years, and quite a num-
ber who were associated with Sister Howe
in Sunday School, Mutual, or Primary
work, and who were taught by her have
since attained prominent positions in various
Church organizations. Among these might
be mentioned Sister Maria Y. Dougall,
Clarissa S. Williams, Ann D. Groesbeck,
Elizabeth C. McCune, and Ida Felt; also
Brother George Albert Smith and others.
Her testimony of the gospel was always
most fervent and convincing.
	It was Sister Howe’s custom in years
gone by to entertain the widows and or-
phans and others in the ward who were
less fortunate than herself. She was most
generous in her contributions, spiritually,
physically and financially, and both she and
Brother Howe were ever ready to give of
their substance at all times to assist in the
work of the Lord.
	In these labors of love, Sister Howe en-
shrined herself in the hearts of hundreds
who have been blessed and benefited by her
wise counsels, her kindly admonitions, and
above all, by the beautiful example of her
daily life.
	“A spirit pure as hers, is always pure,
even while it errs, as sunshine broken in a
rill, though turned aside, is sunshine still.”
The prophetic promise of her father has
been fulfilled, not alone in the faithful per-
formance of these public duties, but in her
unceasing efforts to obtain genealogical data
and carry on her Temple work. For the
purpose of obtaining more complete records
she visited her birthplace in 1886 and was
highly successful in her quest. It is worthy
of note that she has lived to have the work
done for every one of the hundreds whose
record she was able to obtain. And now
at the age of four score years and ten she
rests quietly in her comfortable home await-
ing almost anxiously for the Father’s call.
	Perhaps no more fitting close could be

[Column 2]
given to this imperfect little sketch than to
quote the words written on a page of Sister
Howe’s album  by one of her “girls.”
	“The beauty of holiness beaming through
your life is an energy of moral suasion
greater than precept, command, or warn-
ing. The seen but silent beauty of holiness
speaks more eloquently of God and duty
than the tongues of men and angels.”
			MAY BOOTH TALMAGE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
MARY JANE WHITE HINMAN, RELIEF SOCIETY
	PRESIDENT OF ALBERTA STAKE.
	On Sunday, April 20th, were held the
funeral services over the remains of Mary
Jane White Hinman. The tabernacle
at Cardston was almost filled with sympa-
thizing friends. As the large number of
relatives and fellow workers entered the
building, the congregation arose en masse.
Following immediately behind the sorrow-
ing husband and children, were the fellow
workers in the Relief Society, representing
most of the wards in the stake. Nearly all
were dressed in white and bearing the many
and most beautiful floral offerings, the scene
was of solemn grandeur and one long to be
remembered by all present. The services
throughout were most impressive. Symp-
thetic and comforting remarks were made
by Elders Johannes Anderson, Josiah A.
Hammer, Ammon Mercer, David H. Elton,
James T. Brown, President Edward J.
Wood, Patriarch H. M. Brown, and Sister
Sarah B. Davis of the stake board of Relief
Society. Elders Thomas Duce and Sterling
Williams made the opening and closing
prayers respectively. Beautiful music was
rendered by the choir and a quartet, consist-
ing of Mrs. Grace Cazier, Mrs. Ida Brown,
and Frank Layne and A. B. Cure. The
soloist for the occasion was Mrs. Mary
Leadbetter.
	Mary Jane White Hinman was born at
Farmington, Utah, April 5, 1853, where she
lived with her parents until her marriage
with Henry L. Hinman Nov. 18, 1874. She
continued to make her home here until she
moved to Canada in June, 1890. There were
born to her in Farmington three sons and
three daughters, and after her arrival in
Cardston two more sons were born. Jan-
uary, 1892, she was chosen counselor to
Zina Y. Card in the Y. L. M. I. A., which
position she held until August, 1894, when
she was appointed president of the Y. L.
M. I. A. in the Cardston ward. Two years
later, on Aug. 24, 1896, Aunt Jane was
chosen as second counselor to Mary L.
Woolf in the Relief Society in the Alberta
stake, which position she held until Nov. 14,
1909, when she was appointed president.
This position she held up to the time of her
death. She was a true, faithful Latter-day
Saint, and was ever ready to defend the
faith. She was loved by all associated with
her. She was one of the few who could
always be depended upon and whose word
was seldom if ever broken. During the past
two years she has suffered greatly. Sister
Hinman died April 13th at the Latter-day
Saints hospital, Salt Lake City, following
an operation, surrounded by sorrowing
friends and loved ones. A funeral service
was held in the undertaking parlors, about

[Column 2]
forty Canadians being present, among them
both of her counselors and the stake Relief
Society treasurer. The body was then
shipped to Cardston, and was met at Great
Falls by her sons Scott and Willard. As
the train which bore the remains drew near
the band played “Nearer My God to Thee,”
in the presence of friends who had gathered
there to do honor to the departed sister.
	The sympathy of the whole community is
with those who mourn, especially with the
bereaved husband who is in his seventy-sixth
year, and who for the past twenty-three
years has been cared for by his devoted wife.
			JANE W. BATES, Stake Sec.

		ELLEN THUESON.
				Monroe, April 6, 1913.
	In memory of Sister Ellen Thueson, an old
and esteemed member of the Relief Society,
of the Monroe South ward, who departed this
life March 10, 1913.
	As God has seen fit to take from us our
beloved sister, be it
	Resolved, That we the officers and members
of the Monroe South Ward Relief Society, do
acknowledge the hand of God in all things, and
extend our heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved
family of the departed.
	Resolved, That we follow the example she
has left us, in trying to live a life as near to
hers as possible.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions
be given to the family, and a copy be sent to
the Woman’s Exponent.
	Sister Ellen Thueson was blessed and set
apart as second counselor to Sister Christina
Sorenson, at Orson Magleby’s, then acting
bishop, on the fourth day of December, 1898.
	She held that position faithfully for a period
of ten years. She was always a faithful mem-
ber and a guiding star in all our Relief Society
work, until the sickness that caused her death.
	May we follow her example in God’s noble
cause.
							JANE NAY.
			To the Family.
	Dear friends and bereaved relatives: In be-
half of the Monroe South Ward Relief Society,
I will read a few lines in love and sympathy
with the bereaved, and in fond remembrance of
Sister Ellen Thueson; no one, only those
who have lived by and learned to love her, will
know how we will miss her loving presence
and wise counsel, from every nook and corner
of the Relief Society work.
	God has called a noble spirit,
		One whom we all shall miss,
	With her wise advice and counsel
		And her face of cheerfulness.
	One could feel the Holy influence
		Of a spirit filled with love,
	She has earned a crown of glory,
		An eternal home above.
	Her life was not a path of roses,
		But how patiently she tread,
	Heeding not the thorns that pierced her,
		Nor life’s sorrows as they fled.
	In her long life of sacrifice
		She heeded not the strain
	Nor marked the slowly ebbing tide
		Of life’s enduring pain.
	As mother daily toiled she on
		What sweeter thought to you,
	Embracing all that’s pure and good
		Your friend, both tried and true.
	Mourn her not too deeply,
		Time alone we know can heal,
	The loss of her loving presence,
		Which you now so deeply feel.
	Live a life both pure and noble,
		Let her be your guiding star,
	For she loves and will await you
		In her heavenly home afar.
						MRS. JANE NAY.
	Monroe, Utah, Mar. 12, 1913.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EVENING.
	This poem recently won a gold medal award-
ed by the London Poet’s Club.

Beyond all poesy, sublimity of song.
Sweet eventide, when mellow shadows throng
The valleys, and the slow, reluctant day,
On purple sandals, gliding, steals away
Into the gloaming by the sleeping streams,
A pensive spirit passing unto dreams. 
It is the hour when woods enchanted glow,
And gentle winds with dying odors blow.
From tree to tree faint pipes of evening call,
The bat sweeps circling by the ivied wall,
A lark drops fluttering to his lowly nest.
And drowsily the ringdove croons of rest.
The moan of kine has ceased, the drone of
	bees,
But ever a little stream among the trees
Speeds lightly on, and singeth as it goes,
Songs that a child at evening might compose,
Now the sun's flight is finished in the west,
Where far the great clouds veil his flaming
	crest,
The shepherd pens his weary flock away,
Safe folding laggard little ones that stray,
Bidding them browse awhile ere darkness steep
All things that move, in deep, embrowned
	sleep. 
High uplands as at early morning shine,
Sacred the light that gilds the day's decline,
As when the dawn with holy eyes appears
And opening blossoms sparkle with her tears,
For gross, foreboding day, which climbs the
	east, 
Calling the world to work, and fight, and
	feast,
The cunning day, the fierce, insistent hours
Of human strife with Nature's dreadful pow- 
	ers,
The groaning of a being chained to earth,
Although ablaze with vision from his birth.
But, come, the evening calls us, let us go,
We must not sorrow because earth hath woe.
A passion lingers in this serene air,
A passion void of triumph or despair.
Empty of storm, and hushed to calm delight,
We turn our eyes to greet the coming night.
The stars are streaming up the boundless hills,
The stars which smile at men's inconstant
	wills,
And in an opal radiance, crescent-wise,
The moon peers coldly from the limpid skies.


[Column 1]
	AN INTERESTING LETTER.
	An interesting letter from the recent
flooded district:
				Peru, Ind., May 15, 1913.
My Dear Grandma:
	Now that conditions are getting back to
normal I know you will be interested to hear
from me regarding the recent flood. As
perhaps you know, we had a rainy Easter
Sunday and not until seven o’clock Monday
morning did it stop, then the sun came out
and it looked as though the rain must be
all past. I went to town to do my market-
ing, and hearing that the Wabash river was
rising, I with a friend went down to see it.
About noon we returned to her home and
had luncheon, planning to go about a mile
up stream in the afternoon to the mouth of
the Wississinewa river, as we could hear
the roar of the water, and wanted to see the
sight. However, it started raining again
and we decided to wait, but at five o’clock
it had not stopped so we gave it up and I
returned home. All night the rain came
down and when I tried to phone my friend
Tuesday morning “central” told me the
wires in that neighborhood were down and
there was a foot of water around her home.
I hurried to town and when I reached the
Court House corner one block away I could
see the river was over its banks and already
one block of the business district was in-

[Column 2]
undated, and the water still rising. Every
one was talking about the high water mark
having been passed and as our city is nearly
level and I then was only about two squares
from the water, I thought I better get in 
some provisions. You see I was all alone
as Gene left Monday morning for Fort
Wayne. I first bought a pair of rubber
boots, then walked over to my friend’s house
or rather to within a half block of it, for
then I was in water up to my boot tops.
Their house is on a very high foundation
and she and her family were all right, as
they have an upper story. Her house is
farther from the river than mine, but that
part of the city is lower. I went back to
town and bought a big stock of canned
goods, oil stove, lamps and some alcohol. In
the store they were so busy I had to grind
my own coffee (eight lbs.) and carry all my
purchases home. I bought the largest
washtub I could and caught it full of rain
water, besides filling everything in the
house. The city water by this time was unfit
for use. I worried considerable about Gene
at first until I was told Fort Wayne was
higher, and then I felt better. We were
cut off from the outside world and I did not
know that he, too, was in a flooded country.
Tuesday night he heard about Peru and
tried to get word from me, but could not
nor could he get back here. Still he felt I
was safe as our apartment is on the second
floor and is built of brick. Then we are
only one block west of the court house, and
that is the highest point. We were both
mighty glad and thankful when we found
each other safe and well, Friday night. He
had to walk from Chili, about ten miles
north of here. I took in eight refugees and
the apartment opposite being vacant, we
fitted that up with spare things. The men
carried furniture from down stairs, and in
all we had about twenty-three to cook for
on a little alcohol stove. By this time we
had bought more canned goods, and we ate
mostly cold things, saving the alcohol to
make hot coffee. Everyone had their own
dishes, as washing them was impossible,
water was too valuable. The gas, water and
heat were now all off and we all had to
hang around the oil stove to keep the chill
off. Some of us crowded around that while
others slept, but I could not have slept for
the roar of the water was maddening. My
telephone still was working and the chief
operator and the other girls talked to us to
keep up their courage. They had nothing
to eat so I made a bucket of coffee and
boiled some eggs and took this, together
with some canned goods, over to them. The
exchange is a square away, but with my
boots I made one trip all right, later I sent
it over in a boat each time. Wednesday it
snowed, and this added to the suffering.
Most of the refugees were crowded in the
court house and library, and they had no
heat. Thursday the water started to go
down, and as three of the men in our party
were connected with the Brown Auto Truck
factory, on the north side where the water
was deep, they got a boat and went over to
investigate. While they were in the factory
some one took their boat. They sent word
to us by way of “central” and we took an-
other out, and I went along. The sights I
saw on this trip I will never forget. Still I
have since seen worse in South Peru, where 
nearly everything was wrecked.
	Everything considered, we have much to

[Column 3]
thank our Lord for. Hoping this finds you
well and happy, I am always
	Your loving grandchild,
				ELEANOR SEARS.


THE UTAH CHAUTAUQUA.
	One of the busiest and most helpful places
in Utah during the middle of July will be
on the grounds of the Utah Chautauqua As-
sembly at Ogden from July 17th to the 27th.
	During the ten days over eighty different
lectures, entertainments, or concerts will be
heard. Of special interest to women will be
the work of Mrs. Ida B. Cole and Professor
McKeavor.
	Mrs. Cole is the official representative of
the Chautauqua institution, and is a delight-
ful speaker. She will give two lectures on
art, which will be illustrated by life-sized
reproductions of some of the masterpieces
of the art of all times and all countries. One
lecture on home furnishings will be illus-
trated by large models of houses which are
furnished by the art committee of the Gen-
eral Federation of Women’s Clubs.
	Professor McKeavor of the Kansas Ag-
ricultural College, who is well known in
Utah, will conduct a parents’ class conven-
tion during the session which will be very
valuable.
	Pioneer Day will be celebrated under the
direction of Apostle D. O. McKay and in
the evening the “Mid-Summer Night’s
Dream” will be presented by Miss Maud
May Babcock and the Dramatic Club of the
U. of U.
	Among the other lecturers might be men-
tioned Dr. Charles Zueblin of Boston, Dr.
Ira Landrith of Nashville, Col. Bain of
Kentucky, and Bishop McConnell of Den-
ver.
	Good music will be furnished by the
Brahms, a mixed-quartet, the Imperial Male
Quartet, the Salt Lake Symphony Orches-
tra and others.
	Ample provision is made for the children.
They have lots of fun all day long with their
organized plays, athletics, swimming classes
and clubs.


AUNT LENORA MORLEY.
	SISTER OF ELIZA R. SNOW.
			A SKETCH.
	I opened the EXPONENT and the picture
of Cordelia Morley Cox struck me very
forcibly, as it resembled our Aunt Lenora.
It took me back in thought to my school
days, when we attended Aunt Lenora’s
school. If we were not studying diligently
we would receive a very gentle thump on
the head with her thimble. The first ex-
ercise in the morning was a chapter from
the Bible. In the afternoon we were taught
fancy work and sewing, of different kinds.
Aunt Lenora made a great number of bed-
spreads. They were made out of un-
bleached cloth which she would put on the
snow to bleach. When the cloth was bleached
she would embroider the spreads and they
were just as white as need be. I have one
of them now which I greatly prize. Aunt
Lenora was very industrious, always work-
ing. She lived around with the different
families. She was a mother to all. I know
felt her loss and wondered how Aunt
Eliza could control her feelings in order to
speak at her funeral, we were all crying.
She was honored and loved by all.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		JUNE, 1913


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CON-
			FERENCE. 

			SECOND DAY. 
		MORNING SESSION. 
	Singing, “Praise Ye the Lord.” Prayer,
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams. Singing, “Guide
Us, O Thou Great Jehovah.”
	It was announced by President Wells that 
the morning session of the conference would
be devoted to genealogical work, a subject 
that at once appeals to all Latter-day Saints. 
Some work has already been done along this 
line in our societies, and it is to be hoped 
that the interest will grow and spread all 
over the Church. 
	Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune was intro-
duced as the first speaker, her subject being
“What the Genealogical Society Has Done.”
	Mrs. McCune stated that new effort was 
being put forth by the Genealogical Society 
to interest people in genealogical work and 
salvation for the dead; that when President
Wells was approached on the subject she 
heartily endorsed the effort and promised
the support of the Relief Society in the un-
dertaking. We are delighted that so many
younger people are interested in the work 
and are anxious to assist. 
	The Genealogical Society has expended
thousands of dollars for valuable books, and 
every cent taken for membership fees is ex-
pended on the library. The Society is anx-
ious to obtain valuable books as rapidly as 
possible for the great benefit of its members. 
Since the time the prophet Elijah appeared
to Joseph Smith and delivered the keys of 
salvation for the dead, the people of the 
whole world have awakened to the necessity
of gathering family records and thousands 
of people, regardless of denomination, are 
now engaged in genealogical work; many
societies have been formed whose agents are 
traveling far and near in search of data. This
interest is the result of the influence of God, 
and people of other faiths who are collecting
records are doing it for the benefit of the 
Latter-day Saints, although they do not
know it. The members of the “Mormon”
Church themselves are among the slowest 
to take up this work, and there are many
under the shadow of the Temple who have
not done Temple work for their own
parents. 
	Genealogical work has been taken up very
successfully in connection with the Relief 
Society in several stakes, beginning with

[Column 2]
Ogden, and we hope other stakes will follow
their example.
	Mrs. McCune closed by stating that the 
President of the Church has assured the 
Genealogical Society that the next building 
to be erected by the Church will be a library
for its records.
	Reports were made of the genealogical
work done in the following stakes: Utah, 
Davis, Jordan, and Ensign. 
	Mrs. Martha F. Keeler reported for Utah
Stake, saying that the presidency of the 
stake had called two women from each ward
to take the course of genealogical lessons, 
and then conduct classes where many had
been interested in the work of the society. 
Some of the wards, she said, maintained 
Temple funds, and Provo Fourth ward kept 
a Temple worker in commission practically 
all the time. The Utah Stake has subscribed 
for the Genealogical Magazine, and many 
members of the stake have taken out life
memberships in the Genealogical Society. 
	Mrs. Emma Strong, reporting for Davis
Stake, said that the genealogical work was
taken up by the Relief Society soon after 
last October conference. Classes had been 
organized in Kaysville, Farmington, East
Bountiful, and Centerville, and although
work had been practically suspended during
the winter months, it would be resumed
soon, as the societies were greatly interested 
and very enthusiastic. 
	Mrs. Hilda Larson, president of Jordan 
Stake Relief Society, said that two classes 
organized last fall had held successful meet-
ings and that the work would be resumed
immediately after the present conference. 
	Mrs. Cecelia Sharp Barker, of Ensign
Stake, told of the work done in this stake, 
wherein many members of the Relief So-
ciety and the Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions had been enrolled in the genealogical 
classes held in the Bishop’s Building. Mrs. 
Barker gave examples of the necessity for 
careful and systematic work along genea-
logical lines and she urged full co-operation
in the work. 
	Two violin solos were given by Prof. Wil-
lard Weihe, accompanied by Prof. John J. 
McClellan.
	Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward sang “O Dry
Those Tears,” and was accompanied by Pro-
fessors Weihe and McClellan. 	
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates spoke on the subject,
“How the Genealogical Work Can be Util-
ized by the Relief Society.” “There are
two ways by which the genealogical work
can be secured: First, by the officers of 
the Relief Society writing directly to the 
board of the Genealogical Society; or, sec-
ond, by obtaining the work through the 
stake presidents, as was the case in Ensign 
Stake. Eventually the Genealogical Society 
will take up the matter through correspond-
ence with every stake in the Church and 
ask that work be taken up. 
	“It is to be hoped that some day there
will be temples in every stake, but what can 
be done in these temples without genealog-
ical information, which lies at the very root 
of the work to be done? Much time is 
wasted in our temples today by people com-
ing with incomplete records.”
	Mrs. Gates briefly reviewed the work done 
in the various stakes and in the B. Y. Uni-
versity at Provo. She stated that these 
classes are at the disposal and command of 
the stakes, and teachers are ready and will-
ing to give the information. She rejoiced

[Column 3]
that a temple was to be built in Canada, and 
stated that temples will be built just as fast
as we discharge the obligations resting upon 
us with regard to these matters. “This work
belongs to God, but it rests on the shoulders 
of the individual members of the Church
and can progress no faster than the indi-
viduals themselves permit.”
	Counselor Julina L. Smith continued the 
subject of salvation for the dead, and felt 
that many people were inspired and helped 
in this direction by communication with the 
spirit world in the form of dreams and other 
manifestations. The speaker related several
instances to prove this assertion. She re-
ferred to the manner of laying away the 
dead and hoped that all would be worthy 
of the clothes placed upon them. 
	Singing, “Praise God From Whom All
Blessings Flow.”
	Closing prayer, Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox.
 
		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Singing, “Come, Come Ye Saints.” Open-
ing prayer, Mrs. Alvira Cox. Solo, “O,
Shining Light,” by Hugh Dougall. 
	The officers and members of the General 
Board of Relief Society were then presented
by the Assistant Secretary and were sus- 
tained unanimously. 
	President Wells expressed regret that 
President Smith was unable to attend the 
afternoon meeting, but hoped that some 
member of the Quorum of the Apostles
would be sent in his place. In the meantime
members of the Board would make brief
addresses.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams spoke
briefly, outlining the addresses of the previ-
ous speakers in the conference, dwelling es-
pecially on the sanitation movement, and 
urging the women of the Society to take the 
lead in their respective communities in im-
proving sanitary conditions. She mentioned
the necessity of understanding health prob-
lems in order to preserve bodily strength 
and to prevent disease. Typhoid and other 
diseases which so heavily draw on the life
of the race can be kept down by proper care 
in the home. 
	She heartily endorsed the work of the 
redemption for the dead and hoped that all 
would be brought to realize the beauty of the 
doctrines of the Latter-day Saints and use
every effort to help those who are not so
blessed.
	Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings suggested that 
the members of the Society should count 
their blessings and include among these 
blessings the fact that they are living in a 
day and age where clean and pleasant sur-
roundings are available for all. She urged
the members to assist in the campaign for 
cleaner homes and surroundings, asking all
to try to make conditions under which they
live actually hygienic. She said that more 
sympathy should exist between parents and 
children and that they should be closer com-
panions, also that children should be taught
while small. 
	Mrs. Jennie A. Hyde recounted her ex-
periences as a member of the General Board
in visiting the various stakes, referring to 
one in Arizona where the women had con-
structed a steel elevator and another in 
Utah, South Sanpete Stake, where the So-
ciety had realized $3,700.00 from the sale
of “Sunday eggs;” and still another stake 
where the Relief Society had collected and


contributed $1,600.00 toward the tabernacle
building fund. She urged all to live up to
the understanding of the Gospel as revealed
to us.
	Solo, “Sweet Spirit, Hear My Prayer,”
by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward.
	President Wells endorsed the words of
the other speakers and recounted experi-
ences in the early days of the Relief Society,
emphasizing the value and breadth of the
work. She expressed regret that more of
the deeds of the members of the association
has not been recorded, thinking that many
were worthy of conspicuous places in the
history of the Society. She expressed the
hope that faith is not dying out among the
young people and, to refresh the memories
of the younger members on important inci-
dents of pioneer history with which she is
so familiar, President Wells related the
scene of the transfiguration of Brigham
Young, saying that she had witnessed it,
and that she knew the mantle of Joseph
Smith came upon him. She spoke also of
the resemblance of President Joseph F.
Smith to the Prophet Joseph.
	The conference closed with singing
“Daughters of Zion,” by a choir under the
direction of Lizzie Thomas Edward, and
prayer by Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon.
			AMY BROWN LYMAN,
					Assistant Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TAKING A STAND FOR THE RIGHT.
	Women the world over are waking up to
the fact that they form at least one half of
the world’s citizenship, and that as such it
is their right, and their duty as well, to
help direct its governmental policies.
	God, the Father of creation, made woman
co-equal with man and gave them together
the dominion of earth. The Scriptures say,
“He created him in His own image, in the
image of God created he him, male and fe-
male created he them. And God blessed them
and said unto them, Be fruitful and multi-
ply and replenish the earth, and subdue it;
and have dominion over the fish of the sea,
and the fowls of the air, and every living
thing that moveth upon the earth.” Mark
you, God did not give him dominion, but
them. God has always considered woman
and commissioned her as he has man. He
has sent his angel messengers to her, not to
her husband, whenever he had a work she
should perform. The Holy word tells us he
made promises and gave instructions to
woman as in the case of Sarah of old, also
the wife of Manaoh, and Mary the mother
of Christ. The Divine organizer even gave
woman the greater share in the joint earth-
ly creation, so that she not only forms one
half of the world’s numbers, but she is
bringing into life its entire population. This
fact doubles her interest and concern in the
affairs of civilization, for into whatever con-
ditions prevail she must place her precious
contribution of humanity.
	Man in his might and blindness has
wrested from Eve’s daughters their God-
given rights in the dominion, hence this
modern war which woman-kind is waging to
obtain them back again. The struggle is
surely divinely instituted and will ultimately
succeed, for the world’s problems to-day
are sadly in need of the decisions of pure,
high minded, God-fearing men and women.
	But we of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, are not obliged to fight
for this kind of recognition. Joseph Smith,

[Column 2]
under the inspiration of the Father, restored
to our sex a voice in public councils. As
we often express it, “He opened the door
to women,” by organizing them into societies
and leading them into church and civic re-
sponsibilities and privileges. Our Prophet
saw that laws were heavily overbalanced in
favor of the stronger sex who had so long
held undisputed power, and he gave women
the franchise for a great purpose—the pur-
pose of righting many wrongs; and in the
interest of truth and eternal progression;
and eternal progression admits of no back-
ward steps, it makes no terms with evil.
Our course in regard to this was marked
out by the Savior when He said, “Get thee
behind me Satan.”
	The State of Utah has also extended the
ballot to women, and it behooves us to use
its power understandingly and conscien-
tiously for the right and the right only.
	All the thoughtful and progressive people
of the civilized nations are aroused and ap-
palled at the dreadful and manifold evils
that at present are corrupting society. And
it is to assist the better class of men (who
invite help) to legislate against these evils
that they may be put under the ban and
power of the law, that women are striving
to have a voice in government.
	Now the eyes of the whole world are upon
Utah and her sister States where women
enjoy the franchise, to discover, by the way
we handle problems, if women really stand
for reform; to ascertain if women in general
will be a vital factor in bringing purity,
strength, and honesty into civic affairs and
equal responsibility in conduct, virtue, clean
habits and health into society.
	The enemies of woman’s suffrage are
eager to see us vote with those husbands
who place personal privilege and conven-
ience, selfish desires and business prosperity,
above moral advancement. They will be
glad to see the “weaker vessels” fail in pro-
moting or securing any legislation looking
towards higher ideals. On the other hand
the struggling suffragists are watching with
bated breath, ready to point with pride, de-
light and encouragement to any moral re-
form or civic betterment we may gain;
though we will suffer their just condemna-
tion if we haven’t the sense to grasp and use
our power.
	There is no course for us but to stand un-
equivocally for right living, correct princi-
ples and moral laws. Too long have some
men tried to persuade us that certain evils
were necessary, which admission is but meet-
ing said evils half way; while making
laws to regulate them is inviting them into
our civic midst upon a square footing, and
the institutions maintained to control them
have proven veritable hotbeds for the growth
of crime. When great moral issues are be-
fore us to decide we must not be swayed
like “reeds in the wind” by the sophistry of
those who have personal ends to gain;
neither should we be tempted from our
course by promises of earthly prosperity.
What does that amount to compared to the
saving of the souls of men? Nor should we
be frightened from our duty by the predic-
tion of worse evils. Will we believe those
who declare that we can have only a part
of right, only a little of the good, and that
it is useless to try for perfection?
	Do we forget that a high mark cannot be
reached except by a high aim? Did not
Jesus know what we were capable of when

[Column 3]
he commanded, “Be ye, therefore, perfect
even as your Father in heaven is perfect.”
	Every woman knows what is right, then
why should we hesitate and be persuaded
this way and that. It is the women with low
aims and wavering decisions who have
helped to bring about, in connection with
one-sided legislation, the double standard of
virtue that is blocking the wheels of present
day progress. When men, because of their
stronger appetites, began to fall into ill re-
pute did women put a check upon such con-
duct by withholding their society from the
wrong-doers? When they acquired harm-
ful habits and personal impurity did the fair
sex refuse to marry them? Or, were there
too many wavering ones to condone faith-
lessness and endure filthy habits until certain
men considered some vices their especial
privilege? At the same time the opposite
sex have scorned to wed any but perfectly
virtuous and undefiled maidens. They have
required virtue and irreproachable conduct
from the ones they expected to marry. And
the great majority of the gentler sex have
lived up to this ideal. Have women set an
equally high ideal to which men may aspire?
	If not, then they are partially responsible
for the double standard of conduct, and it
is quite time that women demand purity in
men, and that men reform from habits that
are considered indecent in women. It is
surely time that women demand and vote
for laws that will help to bring about this
imperative reform, which, though an appar-
ently ideal condition, is entirely practicable
and no more than just.
	In the use of the ballot women are re-
sponsible only to their God, and they must
vote according to the dictates of their con-
science, which should put the right above
every other consideration. What better can
we do than follow the teachings of Christ
who said, “Seek ye first the kingdom of God
and His righteousness and all other things
shall be added unto you.” Surely we can trust
the Master. And again, do we not believe
that right will prevail? And shall we not
be of those who help it to do so by taking a
firm and noble stand in its behalf? God for-
bid that we should come under the con-
demnation promised in the scriptures in the
words, “It must needs be that evil come, but
woe unto those by whom it comes.”
	There is a great moral reform wave
sweeping civilization from end to end. It is
not a fad, a fancy of the theorist or a pass-
ing excitement. It is a genuine movement;
a movement that is inevitable. It is the re-
turn swing of the pendulum which has gone
just as far as it can go in the direction of
licensed crime, sin, disease and suffering.
Civilization sowed the wind when it pro-
vided law-protected institutions where men
were permitted, unrestrained, to swear,
smoke, gamble, become intoxicated with
strong drink and debauch their purity. For
as their numbers increased, as they naturally
did with so free a privilege, the numbers of
their companions in crime, dubbed the “fall-
en women,” had to be increased in num-
bers also, and out of this demand and in the
effort to furnish the supply has developed
that commercial monstrosity—the white
slave traffic.
	Through these methods crime has become
so widespread that the sinners themselves
are appalled. Disease stalks openly through
the land hewing the innocent as freely and
relentlessly as the guilty. Civilization is
reaping the whirlwind. And there is hardly


enough left free from some pernicious habits
to pass legislation and create sentiment
against this terrible condition.
	Thus it is that we need patriots, martyrs,
men and women who will sacrifice business
interests, earthly possessions, power and
social caste, to work for the uprooting and
casting out of these disastrous evils and for
the establishing of a cleaner, purer, fairer,
social system.
	The deepest thinkers and the most moral
and high minded men in the world are work-
ing hand in hand with women for this great
reform. Should not we with our teaching
and training be with them in the vanguard?
Let it not be said that any body of women
in the world can place a higher ideal of life
or work harder to establish and maintain it
than the women of the Latter-day Saints.
						IDA S. PEAY,
							Provo, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SKETCH OF THE EAST BOUNTIFUL
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The first society was organized by Bishop
John Stoker and counselors, April 24, 1857.
Bountiful was then called North Canyon
ward. The three wards were in one.
	The first president was Elizabeth H. Bar-
low; her first counselor was Louisa Grant;
second counselor, Hannah Holbrook; secre-
tary, Phoebe C. Sessions; treasurer, Lucina
Sessions.
	There were seventy-nine members. Four-
teen meetings were held.
	They did a good work at that time, look-
ing after the poor. One family received
over $60.00. Meetings were discontinued
on account of Johnston’s army coming to
Utah.
	When Bountiful was divided Bishop John
Stoker and counselors, with Sister Eliza
R. Snow, organized the Relief Society
again. Elizabeth H. Barlow was chosen
president again; Lucina Sessions, first
counselor; Mary Jane Crosby, second coun-
selor; Mary Carter, secretary; Cordelia
Carter, treasurer. They had what was
known as a teachers’ quorum. H. Holbrook,
president; Sarah C. Sessions, first coun-
selor; Phoebe Sessions, second counselor;
Phoebe Sessions, secretary.
	The sisters, with the help of the breth-
ren, built what is known as the Relief So-
ciety hall. Bishop John Stoker gave the
land to the sisters to build the hall on. The
people were not so well off at that time,
but they did a noble work in looking after
the needy, and it was up-hill work, for at
that time the people did not understand the
sisters’ labor as they do today, and they
often were made light of.
	When Sister Barlow resigned, 1883,
Bishop Chester Call and counselors chose
Lucina Sessions for president; Nancy T.
Willey, first counselor, and Pamelia Barlow
Thompson for second counselor; Phoebe
Sessions, secretary; Frances Rampton,
treasurer.
	After Sister Hannah Holbrook’s death,
Sister Samantha Willey was made presi-
dent of the teachers’ quorum; Sarah C. Ses-
sions, first counselor, and Jane Burning-
ham, second counselor; Sarah E. Fox, sec-
retary.
	The sisters built the granary near the
hall to store their grain in, as President
Brigham Young gave that mission to the
sisters to lay up grain for the time of need.
	In 1897, Brother L. John Nuttall came
up to Bountiful, and with Bishop David 
Stoker and counselors, organized what was
known as the National Benevolent society,
with by-laws and articles of incorporation
so that the society could hold real estate,
and they were to be re-elected every four
years. At the re-organization, Sister Lu-
cina Sessions resigned and Nancy Willey
was chosen president, with Pamelia Thomp-
son as first vice president; Phoebe Sessions,
secretary, and Sarah E. Fox, assistant sec-
retary; Frances Rampton, treasurer.
	At that time they discontinued having a
president and counselors to the teachers’
quorum, as the president of the society and
her counselors were considered to be the
proper ones to preside over the teachers.
	In June, 1899, Sister Fox departed this
life and Bishop David Stoker chose Mary
Waddops as second vice president to Sister
Willey, and Annie Neville assistant secre-
tary.
	In 1901 Bishop Stoker met with the sis-
ters at the four years’ election and Sister
Willey was chosen again with the same 
board. Sister Frances Rampton resigned
in 1902, and Wilda Rampton was chosen
in her place, as Sister Annie was absent at
times, Sister Jane Stoker Tolman acted as
assistant secretary. When Annie Neville
resigned as assistant secretary, 1906, Sis-
ter Laura Barlow was chosen assistant sec-
retary.
	In 1905, the same board was elected, Sis-
ter Phoebe Sessions resigned in 1906. She
had been a very faithful secretary for thirty-
five years, not only in the ward but in the
stake. Sister Laura Barlow was chosen to
take her place as secretary, and Afton
Rampton Mabey as assistant secretary. The
society had a good, lively band of teachers.
There were twenty-nine districts and four
to six teachers in a district.
	The teachers were very faithful and good
to visit their districts in rain or shine, to
look after those in their districts where
there was sickness or those that needed.
Sister Willey was certainly a mother to the
sisters in giving them good counsel, and
she had a very lovely way in drawing the
young mothers into the society, also young
girls.
	She and her counselors went and visited
the sisters and administered to them, and
gave them spiritual comfort as well. The
presidency and teachers have looked after
those that have departed this life, and have
given the help needed at such times;
they have laid them away as nicely
as those who could pay their own expenses,
and the society has furnished the means to
pay for their caskets also. Sister Willey
has gone in the homes when it was needed
and scrubbed and cleaned, and through sleet
and snow to do it. And so have some of
the teachers. The society has been a great
assistance to the bishopric in looking after
the needy. The society at one time gave
eighty-nine dollars to pay off a mortgage on
a widow’s home. In another case they gave
eighty-six dollars to assist in putting up a
room or two for another widow to make her
more comfortable, and the society has fur-
nished bed quilts, blankets, shoes, dresses,
underwear, and any of the necessities of
life and some means for missionary pur-
poses. Twenty-five quilts or more were
given through the winter. Some years there
have been sixty in the ward that have
needed some help.
	Through the excellent counsel of Bishop
Stoker the board sold their real estate, the
hall and grounds and granary for one thou-
sand dollars, and put it in the bank to be used
for building again when they thought nec-
essary. The hall had been used for enter-
tainments and schools, so it was not fit for
society meetings, and through the counsel
of the bishop as the wheat needed changing,
thought best to sell and put the money in 
the bank to buy wheat again, which was
eight hundred bushels, which the society
and young ladies had been gathering for
forty years.
	And the society always made a success
with the old folks’ party. For the last two
or three years the president saw that all
of the aged and widows or widowers, it
made no difference whether man or woman
that needed it to comfort them, received
from three to five dollars to make them a
Christmas dinner.
	At the reorganization of the ward’s Re-
lief Society a resolution was presented and
adopted of dividing the means accumu-
lated—two thousand dollars. One-half
should go to Bountiful First ward and
one-half to Bountiful Second ward. The
retiring officers have gone out with a good
record and with love to all.
					PRUDENCE.


A VISIT TO NAUVOO. 
	A congenial party of five friends left St.
Louis, Mo., to visit the City of Nauvoo, and
also to attend the conference of the North-
ern States Mission. We crossed the Mis-
sissippi river at Montrose boarded a gaso-
line launch, crossed the river again and
looking back viewed the Island where the
Prophet Joseph Smith sought refuge from
his enemies in times of danger, we then
turned our faces towards the historical city
of Nauvoo, made dear to the hearts of the
Latter-day Saints for the sad and beautiful
memories of the past. We truly felt we
were treading upon sacred ground, for a
Prophet of the true and living God had
here made his home for a few short years
of his momentous life. We anxiously
looked for the homes of our people, locat-
ing many of them. Sixty miles of rock
curbing outline the sidewalks, placed there
by the “Mormon” people.
	We found the people hospitable and kind,
and had no trouble in securing rooms in pri-
vate families. We started out to view the
landmarks left by our people, first visiting
the spot where the Temple once stood, built
by the people in their poverty, costing them
one million dollars. The pillars alone, of
which there were thirty, costing three thous-
and dollars each. One of them was taken
to the Capitol in Washington. At the hotel
we saw one stone of gray granite taken
from the temple, about 6 by 8 feet, with a
half moon and a man’s face cleverly carved
on one side, also a fine picture of the Tem-
ple. The ground on which the temple stood
remains bare. Nothing remains but one
old moss covered wall. I pictured my
father cutting stone as he labored here in
those early days. Near by stands a hos-
pital built of the stones of the Temple, after
the sacred edifice had been burned by a mob
of wicked men. We next visited the home
of the Prophet—the Mansion House—it is
well preserved and taken care of by a family
not of our faith, who showed us through
each room. We saw many relics of the
family, a pair of silver-bowed spectacles


[Column 1]
which they claimed the Prophet wore, also
a daguerreotype of his wife Emma.
	The house contained eight rooms and is
in good condition. We crossed the street
and saw the first house the Prophet lived in.
It is unoccupied and fast going to decay.
At the front of the door is a plain slab of
granite which marks the last resting place
of Emma Smith, the Prophet’s wife. We
also stood on the spot where the bodies of
the Prophet and his brother Hyrum lay in
state, and were viewed by ten thousand
people. Opposite is the Nauvoo House,
partly finished. All this property is now
owned by people not of our faith.
	The location of the Prophet’s home is
ideal. The land here is shaped like a horse
shoe, sloping down to the river’s edge. The
view here is inspiring, with the rolling hills
covered with green pine trees, truly an ideal
spot for a beautiful city. Nauvoo is now a
quiet, peaceful hamlet of about one thous-
and inhabitants, sleeping its life away,
where once stood a city of twenty thousand.
	We visited the old home of President
John Taylor, a well preserved red brick
building of eight rooms, occupied now by
a widow woman and her daughter. A small
store near by is rented by the Latter-day
Saints for Sunday School and sacrament
meetings.
	We then went to the Masonic Temple and
standing on the spot where the Prophet de-
livered his last address to his dearly be-
loved people, we together with one hundred
humble missionaries of the gospel, had our
pictures taken, among the number was
Brother Pitts, an elderly man who has heard
the Prophet preach many times out in the
open air.
	In the evening we attended services held
by our people in the City Hall, about three
hundred being present. The following day
being Sunday, a special fast meeting was
held, and about fifty young men and women
bore testimony of the divinity of Joseph
Smith’s mission. The Spirit of God was
there in abundance. We felt it was a priv-
ilege to bear our testimony on this occasion
to the truthfulness of the restored gospel.
It was a time never to be forgotten.
	Our next trip was to the City of Carthage,
passing the old “Mormon” cemetery, then
the farm once owned by the Prophet. We
did not wonder that he turned to take a
last look at this beautiful spot. After a
pleasant ride of twenty-two miles over a
level road, viewing the well tilled farms,
we entered the city of Carthage. A short
ride and we were in front of the solid rock
jail with walls thirty-two inches in thick-
ness, now covered with green vines. The
well curb is removed, a green lawn in its
place. Crossing the threshold of the door,
serious thoughts entered our minds as we
ascended the stairway, opened the door
dented with bullet marks and entered the
room where the blood of the Patriarch
Hyrum Smith stains the floor. These spots
stand out clear as a testimony against the
people of Illinois who had promised pro-
tection. We stood by the window, half
open, facing the east, where the Prophet
Joseph looked down the muzzle of sixty or
more rifles, and throwing his body headlong
at their feet pierced with four bullets, ex-
claimed, “Oh Lord, my God.” They never
fail who die in a great cause.
	After a short talk with the family who

[Column 2]
have charge of the place, which is owned
by our people, we returned to Nauvoo, at-
tended services, and the following day re-
turned to the city of St. Louis.
			SARAH MCLELLAND.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
	YELLOWSTONE STAKE.
	The annual convention of the Yellowstone
stake was held at St. Anthony, Feb. 23, 1913,
commencing at 10 a. m.; President Julia E.
Miller presiding; roll call showing 8 stake
officers, 37 ward officers, members, and vis-
itors; also stake presidency, two high coun-
cilors and several bishops present.
	A speech of welcome by First Counselor
Mary J. Miller. Talk on storing of grain by
Amelia C. Barnes. Song, Sister Singleton
of St. Anthony. Paper on charity by Sister
Vera Remington. Song by members of
Marysville ward.
	Bro. Frank A. Miller of the stake Sunday
School spoke for a short time of the rela-
tionship of the different organizations of the
Church.
	President Daniel G. Miller spoke encour-
agingly to the sisters; thanked them for their
assistance in the erection of the Tabernacle.
Singing, “We Thank Thee, oh God, for a
Prophet.” Benediction by Sister Emily
Lamborn.
	Afternoon Session—President Julia E.
Miller presiding, First Counselor Mary J.
Miller conducting.
	Singing, “How Firm a Foundation.”
Prayer by Bishop A. D. Miller, Sr., of the
St. Anthony ward. Singing, “Nay, Speak
No Ill.” Speech of welcome, Pres. Julia
E. Miller. A talk on the opportunity that
comes to a mother in her Relief Society
work, by Sister Ellen Murri. A talk on
child culture by Sister Janette Miller. Song,
Sister Vilate Rigby. Talk on “Mothers of
Great Men” by Sister Alice Parker. Song
by two young girls of the Marysville ward.
	Bro. C. E. Lloyd spoke for a short time,
encouraging all to do their duties. A set of
resolutions passed by general board of Re-
lief Society was read by Secretary Mary E.
Brower.
	Sister Mary J. Miller thanked all who had
taken part. Singing, “Guide Me to Thee.”
Benediction by Sister Bessie Redding.
				MARY E. BROWER, Secy.
	LOS ANGELES BRANCH.
	Anniversary Exercises of the National
Woman’s Relief Society, of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, of the
Los Angeles Branch, March 17, 1913.
	Sister Olive D. Christensen, General Sec-
retary of the Relief Society board, and Sis-
ter Maria Y. Dougall, were present. Ser-
vices were conducted by Second Counselor
Sister Louise Irving.
	Opening by singing, “Our God we raise
to Thee.”
	Invocation by Sister Maria Y. Dougall.
	Vocal Solo by Sister Josie Hinckley, “I
Love You.”
	A reading on Woman and her Work,
Sister Jessie S. Reed.
	Vocal Solo, “Carmena and When Love is
Kind,” Elsie B. Best.
	The minutes of the organization of the
Woman’s Relief Society were read by Sis-
ter Olive D. Christensen.

[Column 2]
	Violin Solo, Joseph K. Robinson.
	Recitation, Sister Heywood.
	Quartette, Wm. A. Shepherd, Alma J.
Winters, Sister Josie Hinckley and Katie
Robinson.
	A Rubenstein Reading, Horace N. Fish.
	President Robinson addressed the gather-
ing eulogizing woman and what she has
done for mankind.
	Duet, Jos. E. Robinson and Wm. A.
Shepherd.
	Sister Irvine spoke of the work of the
Society in Los Angeles.
	President Robinson informed the Society
and Saints of the room in the new church
especially for the ladies.
	By request Sister Hinckley sang, “May
Morning.”
	Envelopes were passed around for dona-
tions, after which ice cream and cake were
served. A pleasant evening was spent, after
which the gathering was dismissed by Elder
George H. Anderson.
	Amount donated $21.37.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference, held March
21st at Spring Lake, President Eliza J.
Dixon presiding and taking charge.
	Singing, “Our God, we Raise to Thee.”
Prayer by Brother David Butler. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.” Minutes of last Con-
ference were read and approved. Roll
called, seven wards represented, sixty-two
officers and members and eight brethren
present.
	Sister Diantha Thomas spoke a few words
of welcome. Sister Dixon made opening
remarks. Was glad to see so many present.
Spoke of Relief Society work and what it
consists of—for the sick and needy and
teaching the Gospel.
	Sister Edla Johnson gave a report of
Benjamin Ward Society.
	Sister Reece of Santaquin gave a recita-
tion.
	Sister Ursula Drollinger reported Payson
First Ward.
	Sister Sorena Youd reported Lake Shore
Ward.
	Sister Mara Anna Barren of Santaquin
gave a reading entitled, “Self Sacrifice.”
	Sister Matilda Dixon gave a lesson on
“Modern Revelation.”
	Sister Martha S. Kapple, having just re-
turned from a trip to California, spoke on
revelation, and the organization of the Re-
lief Society; said her trip away from home
had strengthened her testimony.
	Closed morning session by singing, “The
Spirit of God like a Fire is Burning.”
	Benediction by Brother Walter Menlove.
		AFTERNOON SESSION
	After the opening exercises, remarks
made by President Smith during our last
conference were read by Sister Ruth Sar-
gent.
	Recitation by Sister Emma Greenhalgh
“Mother and Home, Sweet Home.”
	Sister Clara R. Evans spoke on protecting
the morals of the young people of Zion.
	Recitation by Sister Emma Greenhalgh
of Santaquin.
	Brother Alpheus Bingham said we should
do all in our power to get our children to do
right and shun evil. We are not confiden-
tial enough with our children.
	Song, Sister Maria Perry, entitled, “Just
Plain Folks.”


Brother David Butler made a few re-
marks on moral purity.
	Recitation by Sister Hortense Butler.
	Sister Eliza A. Hawkins, just returned
from California, gave a short talk.
	Sister Eliza J. Dixon explained the use
of the new text book, called “Primer of
Sanitation;” made closing remarks thank-
ing the people of Spring Lake Ward for
royal entertainment.
		E. A. HAWKINS, Cor. Secretary,
						Payson, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
“WELL DONE, GOOD AND FAITHFUL
			SERVANT.”
	A beautiful morning in the latter part of
May found us eagerly scanning the shores of
Old England, and waiting the landing of our
steamer the “Corlew” at the quay in Liver-
pool.
	We had just crossed the channel from Ire-
land, on our return journey from visiting and
attending the conferences held in the north of
England and Scotland, and lastly the confer-
ence just held in Belfast, Ireland. After visit-
ing the branch of the Church in Dublin, we
found ourselves wandering through the won-
derful Giant’s Causeway and visiting some of
the wild Irish scenes on the coast of Antrim,
and then dreaming the time away among the
beautiful Lakes of Killarney. I had been la-
boring in the mission field nearly two years,
when, in the latter part of April, President
Lyman had released me from field work, and
invited me and my missionary companion, Sis-
ter Farnsworth, and my little daughter May, to
visit with him some of the conferences where
there were no missionary sisters. We enjoyed
every minute of the time. I had borne my tes-
timony to the truthfulness of the Gospel in
homes, halls and in the street in the lands
and conferences we had visited.
	Before leaving London I had promised the
elders I would return and share the summer’s
work on the streets of that great metropolis
with them. “But you will be released very
soon,” they said, “then you will not come back
to London.”. These thoughts were in my mind
as we landed that morning in Liverpool. Tak-
ing a cab we soon arrived at “42,” so famed
in the missionary history of Liverpool. As we
stepped into the office, we were greeted by
President Lyman who, looking over his glasses
said to me, extending his hand to each of us,
“Where were you on Sunday, Sister Alder?”
By the way we had promised to attend the
conference held in Liverpool on that day. “In
Dublin,” I answered. “Did you hold meetings
in Dublin?” he inquired. Being answered in
the affirmative, he continued, “That is well;”
then added, “I was just going to mail your
release to London, but now you have come, I
will give it to you.” I now noticed that he
had a number of long envelopes in his hand,
one of which he handed to me saying, “Well
done, good and faithful servant.” As one in a
dream, I took it mechanically in my hand; at
the same moment my strength forsook me, and
I dropped into the nearest chair gasping, “Then
my work in this land is done!” “No,” he said,
“I know you desire to labor longer in London,
so I have made your release read, ‘to return
home at your pleasure after the sixth of
June.’”
	Sometimes I had thought it would be a
happy day when I should hear the welcome
plaudit, “Well done, good and faithful servant.”
But oh, the pain that was mixed with the
pleasure! Before me there instantly arose all
the fields wherein I had labored, and the faces
of many of the Saints rose to my view. Then
I was my own judge. Had I done all that I 
could for them; had I been patient, endearing,
loving; had I strengthened the tender wheat,
while their weak feet were being made fast
in the Gospel? Even as it is said that in an
instant of time the past life of a drowning man
stands up before him, so my missionary life
arose before me. I could think of nothing I 
had left undone, but oh, I wished I had done
more. I had not squandered the precious time,
but I felt so sorry I was so often weary. Oh
that I had had strength to do more! The
words of Holy Writ came to me now fraught
with a new meaning. “Well done, good and
faithful servant.” I had never understood
them before. Would that anticipated time

[Column 2]
bring the expected joy and happiness? I felt
that it would not, for it would mean to us, that
our record would be closed, this life be over,
all earthly opportunities for doing good be
past. 
	My heart beats were strange and painful. I
was so thankful that I could yet labor for
Christ; yet strive to win some soul to Him. I
rejoiced in the few scoffs and little scorn I
had borne for Him, it all seemed so insignifi-
cant now, and could I not have endured a little
for Him I would not be worthy of Him. “You
have filled a long, hard mission,” Bro. Lyman
was saying; “go home and labor among your
sisters and the Saints.” I felt that the authority
with which I had been invested had fallen
from my shoulders like a mantle, and my de-
sire to remain was swallowed up in my new
mission.
	Oh brothers, sisters, labor earnestly at home
and abroad. Some of His sheep are straying;
will you strive to bring them back? Some are
weaker than you, will you strive to bear them
up? Christ came to bring, not the righteous,
but sinners unto repentance, and know that
none are perfect, no, not one. Then some day,
when mayhap it may be said unto you, “Well
done, good and faithful servant;” you may,
holding some of His wandering sheep by the
hand, enter into His kingdom and enjoy the
rest He has prepared for those who have over-
come.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


THE N. E. A.
	The great event of the “City of the
Saints” this summer is the National Educa-
tional Convention. The people of Utah are
most happy in their entertainment of stran-
gers, and the opportunity of opening our
gates to the educators of the nation, was
highly appreciated. Every possible detail
of entertainment was so carefully studied
out by the various committees that when
the opening day of the convention arrived,
the city was marvelously beautiful with
flags and banners, and electrical displays.
All the women’s organizations of the city
kept open house for the visitors, and hos-
pitality and friendliness was evident on
every side. That the visitors from afar
should enjoy their sojourn in Salt Lake City
was the desire of all the people, and the
people, in return, would undoubtedly gain
much from the lectures and discussions of
these great thinkers.
	A feast of knowledge is a goodly thing,
and those who are wise take advantage of
so rare an opportunity to attend and im-
bibe the learning offered at the various
meetings where these noted educators dis-
cuss and declaim on the great problems
that confront the world today.


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.
		ANNIE W. LARSON.
	Sister Larson, first president of the
Emery Stake Relief Society, died at the
home of Bishop Sam Larson, Castle Dale,
Utah, May 22, 1913, after suffering many
months. Sister Larson was born October 1,
1832, and came to Utah Sept. 27, 1862.
Soon after her arrival in Utah she was mar-
ried to Christian G. Larson, a former presi-
dent of the Emery stake.
	
[Column 2]
	She acted as counselor to Sister Mary
Ann Hyde in the first Relief Society of
Sanpete stake and was chosen president of
the Emery Stake Relief Society, July, 1882,
which office she held for nineteen years.
	She has led a beautiful life, which is
worthy of imitation. She has been kind,
patient and loving to the many children in
the Larson family, who respected and loved
her as a mother.
	As a leader among her sisters in the great
Relief Society work, she will always be re-
membered.
	It was Sister Larson, when president of
Emery stake, who gave the first donation to
the fund for a woman’s building, the money
thus given having been raised by the sale
of “Sunday eggs.”
	She observed the commandments of God,
and was true to the gospel of Christ.
	We resolve in our hearts to endeavor to
be as faultless as she has been, that we may
go where she has gone. That we may be
joined with her in friendship, companionship
and in the ties of sisterly love. That we
may find the emerald gates of Paradise open
for us as they are now open for her whom
we love.
				EDA DYCHES, Sec.

	EMMA SMITH FEATHERSTONE.
			American Fork, April I5, 1913.
	Whereas, in the providence of our Heavenly
Father, he has seen fit to take from our midst,
one of His chosen daughters, Sister Emma
Smith Featherstone, who departed this life
April 12, 1913, at American Fork, Utah county;
	Therefore, be it resolved, That we the sisters
of the First Ward Relief Society, desire to ex-
press our love and appreciation for her untir-
ing labors, as a faithful and efficient secretary
for about forty years; ten years of that time
being devoted as a stake secretary.
	Her life has been a living example to all who
knew her. Her worth is untold. Few have
enjoyed the many gifts she possessed, for she
was highly favored by the Lord, and her sweet
influence felt by all. Great will be the greet-
ing, as she is recognized by those to whom she
performed the last sad rites.
	Volumes could be written telling of the
loving sacrifice, of her inspiration, and the
many blessings she bestowed upon the sorrow-
ing ones. She never hesitated, nor faltered,
in time of need. It can be truly said of her
“To know her was to love her.” We shall
miss her, but our loss is her gain.
	Therefore, be it resolved, That we extend
unto her husband and family our heartfelt sym-
pathy, praying that the consolation of Him
“that doeth all things well” will overshadow
them with His comforting influence.
	We therefore desire that a copy of these
resolutions be presented to the family, and
also placed upon the records of the association
and the “Woman’s Exponent.”
				CHARLOTTE GREENWOOD,
				ROSA H. GRANT,
				ELIZABETH MCCARTY,
				ELIZABETH J. DURRANT.


The U. S. Senate Committee on Woman
Suffrage has reported in favor of an
amendment to the National Constitution
forbidding disfranchisment on account of
sex.


R K. THOMAS CO.,	67-69 MAIN STREET,
					SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies ’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


WOMAN ’S EXPONENT.
The Organ of the Latter-day Saints ’ Woman ’s Belief Society.
