Vol. 41.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MIDWINTER NUMBER, 1913	No. 5.


CONTENTS.
Sketch of Cordelia Morley Cox......................	33
The Genealogy of Mary Lyman.....................	34 
News Letter.....................................................	34
The Relief Society Teacher.............................	35
Book Review..................................................	40
Genealogical Outlines....................................	40
In Memoriam..................................................	39
Relief Society Reports—
	Granite Stake..........................................	38
	Oneida Stake...........................................	39
	Nebo Stake.............................................	39
Editorial—
	The New Year—1913.............................	36
	Annual Greeting.....................................	36
	Women Past and Present........................	36
	Foreign Letter.........................................	37
	Theoretical Dangers and Real Dangers..	38
	Home Socials..........................................	38
Poetry—
	Crumbling.................................L. M. H.	33
	A Farewell........................Dolores Watts	35


[Column 1]
[image of sitting woman]
SKETCH OF CORDELIA MORLEY COX.
	My parents were born in Montague
Franklin, Mass.; my father, Isaac Morley,
March 11, 1786, and my mother, Lucy Gunn
Morley, January 24, 1786.
	Here they grew to manhood and woman-
hood and were married in the year 1812.
During this year they left their homes of
wealth and comfort for the wilderness of
Ohio, where they built their cabin homes.
It being a quarter of a mile from any white
neighbor, cleared the lands near which later
became the city of Kirtland.
	For twenty years father lived here sur-
rounded by his father’s family, who had
followed him.
	I was the fifth child of a family of nine,
all of whom were born in Kirtland.
	Though a century has passed and gone
the Morley people and the Morley Grove
of sugar maples are still at the Old Home-
stead.
	In the year 1830 the Prophet Joseph
Smith and his wife came to our home at
Kirtland. Our family were soon converted
to “Mormonism,” and here the Prophet
lived during the winter. A warm friend-
ship grew between father and the Prophet
which lasted through life.
	In the spring of 1832, Joseph Smith called
Edward Partridge’s family and father’s
family to go to Missouri to find a location

[Column 2]
for the Saints. A place was found near the
town of Independence, Missouri.
	Here father’s family and the Partridge
family, who had become life-long friends,
in traveling from Kirtland, Ohio, to Jack-
son, Missouri, moved, father giving up his
home, father, mother, sisters and brothers
for the Gospel’s sake.
	One sister, Diantha Billings, was the only
one of his father’s family who joined the
“Mormon” Church. Father never after
had a home of any pretensions, just a place
of shelter for his family.
	He was a willing worker and spent his
time in Church affairs, instead of work for-
his own.
	All the years of my youth were years of
mobbing, and hardships of every conceiv-
able kind for my parents. My dear mother
was left with all the cares of a large family 
while father was thrown into prison; so
unhumanly was he treated that when he
came back to us we stared some time before
we could recognize and call this gaunt man
father. And so it was from year to year,
persecution which increased our faith in our
Creator.
	In Jackson Co., Mo., January, 1832, my 
father cut the ice from a stream and bap
tized myself and two boys.
	I attended school whenever and wherever
had the opportunity, amidst all our mov-
ing, mobbing and driving, until at the age
of sixteen father built a small schoolhouse
where I taught in the summer and went to
school in the winter to a larger school.
	This was at the place known as the Mor-
ley Settlement, where my father was presi-
dent and F. M. Cox and Edwin Whiting his
counselors. Here we lived five years of
blessed peace and prosperity.
	In my father’s, home at this time were
four grown sisters. Our house was small,
but there was room for love, friends and
merriment. 
	A cooper by trade, father’s shop was
adjoining the house. Our beaus being plen-
tiful, they made themselves both useful
and agreeable in the cooper shop; they
would come, and out the barrels and rubbish
they’d send, start the fiddle and the fun
began. We danced how we danced. For
a change, we played chase the squirrel and
thread the needle, sailing the boat, whirl
the plate. Forfeits were taken up which
led to many other games.
	We had dancing and spelling schools 
husking bees, house raisings. At this time
we made fun out of everything, and with us 
it was the one gleam of sunshine for many
years to come.
	Though so many years have passed since
this change of scene, it is with a pang at the
heart and quivering lips I recall them. The
pen and hand fail to paint the emotions of
the heart. May I not pass them by, as well
as the martyrdom?
	A year later, September, 1845, the Mor-
ley Settlement was burned. The labor and
toil of years was ruthlessly destroyed;
homes and stacks burned, cattle taken pos-
session of and driven away. Helpless old


[Column 1]
people, women and children robbed of even
a shelter and the necessaries of life. Oh,
the inhumanity of our own countrymen, for
they left ruin and desolation where had
been a happy, prosperous people. Now
they scattered wherever they could find a
shelter or friend, or a crust of bread.
	My father spent the winter in Nauvoo
and here I want to bear my testimony, no
matter by whom it is denied.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith taught and
practiced polygamy, himself having five
wives whom I was acquainted with. It was
just as much a trial to us in those days as it
would be to this people today. But we
tightened our armor and made ready to
overcome our selfish desires. I have told
you of those sacred marriages in the Tem-
ple at Nauvoo (no need to repeat). But
must say the Father of us all watched over
and blessed us for striving to obey His will.
I am not denying the wavering of my will,
for when you feel the finger of scorn point-
ed your way and know you are against all
the teachings of your youth, a strong faith
must be yours to be able to overcome this
feeling.
	Many were the nights of weeping. I
must have some assurance of a higher
source to be able to go on with any degree
of comfort. I went to bed praying earn-
estly to have the right made known to me.
I then seemed to be one of the multitude of
people who evidently were sorrowing. I
felt that a glorious personage was moving
among them whispering words of inspira-
tion and comfort. Soon he came to me and
in startling distinctness these words he said
“Never change your condition or wish them
otherwise.” Today I am thankful I obeyed
that voice, it was so real to me that I felt
strengthened and comforted.
	In the year ’51 my husband was arrested,
stood trial and his sentence was, one wife
only or leave the country.
	My husband had the courage of his con-
victions and stood up to them, saying, “I
will never forsake these wives and their
little ones, so help me God.”
	But to gain time and to keep peace he put
Aunt Jemima, myself and our children into
a wagon. (This lady beside myself was
known as one of the “sister wives,” she was
one who was dearer to me than one of my
own sisters.) Through the cold we trav-
eled into another country. He hunted for
a house, but could not find a house of any
kind. A stable was found about fourteen
feet square, without doors or windows; no
place for a fire; not a friend or an ac-
quaintance called spiritual wives, looked
down upon by every passerby with sus-
picion and distrust. At this time Aunt
Jemima had two children and was in a
delicate condition, needing a loving hus-
band’s care.
	I had three little ones, the oldest was five
years old. Nervousness was my ever pres-
ent companion.
	Our husband took up the loose boards,
scraped the floor and replaced them. Made
two pole bunks, cut a little wood and left
us alone, yes, alone amongst a town full of
people. Alone when we could not help
but feel that He who knows when even
a sparrow falls. What could we do but
rely upon the Father who as you will see,
knew of all our pitiful condition.
	February came and went, we had made
no acquaintances. Father Cox did not come
as we expected. I was scared, for I knew

[Column 2]
Jemima was trying to keep her trouble to
herself. Suddenly there was a knock at
the door. I timidly opened it after asking
who was there. A lady walked in, an en-
tire stranger to us. Who had sent her here
this wintry night so unexpected, yet so wel-
come, so necessary, for it was not long be-
fore a newborn babe came to that stable
and was laid in its mother’s arms, Feb. 29,
1852.
	Well, all this was just a little too much.
This over, I just dropped every feather and
wept. Oh, but was not this a God-given
testimony; we ever since have felt so. Who
could have expressed a keener sympathy.
He did not send to us an earthly doctor,
whose every look and action would seem
to cut us as a knife, but a poor hunted being
who, like ourselves, must be kept out of
sight, keeping our troubles to ourselves.
	She had accidentally heard that we were
here and came to us or I can only feel that
she was sent and I don’t doubt that she
went her way comforted, as she left us as
soon as her work was done. We have never
seen her since.
	In the year of ’52, three months later, we
started West, reaching Salt Lake City Sep-
tember 28. We then came on to Manti,
reaching here October 4, 1852, and were
welcomed by my father and a score of rela-
tives and friends.
	And though the next twenty years were
filled with hardships and anger, still they
were happy years.
	Everything we had to wear was made in
our home; our summer shoes, our hats, bon-
nets, dresses and underwear, by our own
busy hands.
	I raised my family of eight children, and
now have 49 grandchildren and 86 great-
grandchildren. As my children married
and went to homes of their own, I occupied
my time with other work. I was secretary
of the Relief Society for fourteen years, a
worker in the Manti Temple for thirteen
years, and at the present time I am in my
ninetieth year, having been born November
22, 1823, and some times the question comes
to me, “Have I garnered a sheaf of empty
grain, or will it be filled with God’s plump
grain?”
					CORDELIA.


CRUMBLING.
Who reared that lofty frieze and architrave
O’er western desert fanes? And who the sum
Of untold years have named of hall and nave,
In crumbling ruin? Time is silent, dumb.
Who planned and placed almighty Jove or
	Thor
The thousand pillar’d temple of the East?
And ere its waning what bold idolator
Did worship there, or who did hold his feast?
Where by Stalla’s azure-mantled sea,
The Sister Cities doomed for ages dire—
Lost Herculaneum and Pompeii?
O’erwhelmed by wild Vesuvius’ stormy ire!
Where now Minerva’s far-famed Parthenon,
“Athena’s wonder” that enthralled the world?
Fallen to dust, its glowing beauty gone—
The Grecian’s glory into ruin hurled!
Where grand, unrivaled Thebes and Tentyra,
And their divinities all o’er the plain?
Crushed ’neath the wheels of Time’s engulf-
	ing car!
All crumbling with their gods to earth again.
What famed Palmyra? ’Tis the wild beasts’s
	lair!
Voluptuous Nineveh, so vast and brave?
The Ephesian City and strange “Temple”
	there?
The hooting owl sits brooding o’er their grave!
What Babylon? that fain would heaven amaze?
With Babel’s tower, her walls and brazen bars?
The lion’s whelps cry through her lonely ways,
Where the enraptured Chaldee worshiped
	stars!
What now thy once proud cities, Palestine?
The ploughshare brightens o’er their crum-
	bling walls.
The olive waves above the Christian's shrine,
His temples, palaces and halls!
Crumbling to dust is Petra’s rock-wrought
	tomb!
And Baulbec’s temple—“sacred to the Sun!”
Silent is “Mention” wasting to its doom;
Earth once again Rome’s monuments have
	won.
Crumbling the Aztecs’ glory and their fame—
Thy sculptures rare, Palenque and Copan;
The dream of ages now but dust to scan.
Great London, thou renowned of all the world—
Are they invulnerable when unfurled
’Gainst old Nemesis’ Time, and canst thou,
	save?
Will ghostly shades flit through each silent
	street,
Where he has reaped his human harvest here?
As now within thy famed, crowned abbey west.
The weird spectres sound each mouldering
	bier.
Man hath his monuments; nations, cities,
	states,
Their centuries: to all the same as naught,


Threads spun are wrought and severed by th[-]
	fates,
To be respun again and still rewrought.
Man's monuments are fleeting shapes of fame—
Like airy mists soon fading to decay,
God's still enduring, still renewing flame
Are starry worlds, and ever shining way.
							—L. M. H.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Miss Elizabeth Upham Yates, president
of the Rhode Island W. S. A., has been
giving a series of very illuminating talks
before the Rhode Island Women’s Club on
the “Legal Status of Mother and Child.”


THE GENEALOGY OF MARY LYMAN.
	Mary Lyman was born in Durham, State
of Connecticut. Her father’s name was
Samuel Lyman, her mother was Mary
Mitchell. Mary Lyman married William
Johnson, a son of Dydamus Johnson and
Rheuama Stephens Johnson. William John-
son, the husband of Mary Lyman Johnson,
moved to New York, Gennesee Co., town
of Perry, and died there. Then his father,
Dydamus Johnson, sent for the widow and
child and took them back to Connecticut,
and in two or three years the widow mar-
ried Lorenzo Johnson, a son of Dydamus
Johnson. Then Lorenzo Johnson with his
family moved to Michigan, Oakland Co.,
town of Royal Oak; in 1845 his wife was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.
	Then in 1847 Lorenzo Johnson sold his
farm and took up his line of march West,
and came to Nauvoo, Ill. There he, too,
was baptized in the Mississippi River. He,
with his family, that spring came west as
far as Garden Grove, Iowa. The next


spring he went up to Winter Quarters; was
there one year; then the Government said
that the Saints were on the Indian Reserva-
tion, so all had to move over on the east
side of the Missouri river. So there was
three years in succession that Lorenzo
Johnson had split rails and fenced his land
and plowed and raised a crop to sustain his
family, and built houses for them to live in.
In 1853 he and family came to Utah, and
settled in Springville, Utah. He was called
on a mission to Southern Utah, but finally
settled in Monroe, Utah, where he died.
His wife and family still live there, and his
wife lives with her youngest daughter, Mrs.
Thompson Lisenbee, she being a widow
with six children, but she never married
after her husband died, but raised her family
and all were good citizens.
	Mary Lyman Johnson was well and
active for many years after her husband’s
death. She was fond of reading, which she
could do until within a few days of her
death without glasses. She was a quiet,
patient, lovely woman, and dearly loved by
her family and all who knew her. She took
to knitting bedspreads and knit all her liv-
ing children one each. She had eight chil-
dren, two boys and six girls. Three of the
family are dead. The bedspread that is at
the Fair, she knit when she was 90 years
old, and the photo was taken when she was
90 years old. She died at the age of 94,
at Monroe, Utah, and was buried there. Up
to within two weeks of her death she was
perfectly well and able to knit and read
without glasses.
				MARY A. LYMAN
Bancroft, Idaho.


NEWS LETTER.
	Flushed by the success which has char-
acterized the boys’ potato clubs throughout
the State which now have a total member-
ship of two thousand boys, the Utah Agri-
cultural College officials are now taking up
a similar work among the young women of
the State. To this end girls’ bread-making
clubs in which competition in their ability
to make satisfactory bread will be stimulated
among the girls throughout the State, and
also girls’ flower garden clubs are being or-
ganized in the various districts throughout
the State. Prizes are being arranged for
each of these competitions and the girl win-
ning in the district contest will be given a
free trip to Logan and a course during the
annual Housekeepers’ Conference free of
charge.
	It is presumed that the various local con-
tests will take place simultaneous with the
county fairs, in time to permit of the repre-
sentation of the winning product at the
State Fair.
	Definite instructions as to the rules gov-
erning the contest, how to plant the gardens
and the proper recipes for good bread-
making, can be obtained by writing Miss
Gertrude McCheyne, Agricultural College,
Logan, Utah. The boys can also receive
the required information by writing to Prof.
J. C. Hogensen at the same place.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A FAREWELL.
An aged form has passed my door,
He has crossed its threshold o’er and o’er,
With messages of joy and pain,
But he will never come again.
It is the Old Year bent in woe
His head is white, his step is slow,
’Tis sad to see him, go alone
To the realm of the unknown.
Crown him with leaves of sacred holly,
With reverence, not for folly,
Once he was young, a bright New Year,
But age has brought the wintry tear.
“Adieu well loved child of Sorrow
Live today nor fear tomorrow,
Enjoy the roses while in bloom,
Lest they be scattered o’er you tomb.”
I sadly smiled at the parting form
Fading away in the sleet and storm,
“Farewell,” I sobbed, and my eyes grew dim
For I had prayed to go with him.
				DOLORES WATTS.


[Column 1]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY TEACHER.
Story Read at the Relief Society Teachers’
		Reunion, Mapleton.
	One day while walking through the
streets of a small country village, I was
overtaken by a dear friend whom I had not
seen for a long time. We stopped a few
moments to exchange greetings, then
walked along together chatting pleasantly,
when suddenly I asked, “Why don’t you
come and see me sometimes as you used
to? You haxe no small children now to tie
you to your home. I should think you
could visit a little anyway.” “Well,” she
said, “I should like to, but I’m a Relief
Society teacher now and that takes about
all the time I can spare from my home.”
“Only a Relief Society teacher and no time
to visit?” I said. “How large a district do
you have to oversee?” “My companion
and I have eight homes to visit,” she an-
swered. “But,” I said, “you are only re-
quired to visit once a month and you have
only a very few poor to look after, haven’t
you?” “Yes, we are only required to visit
once a month, but here is my home, come
in and sit and rest a few moments and I
will tell you a little of how my time is
occupied.”
	Being comfortably seated in a low rocker
my friend began: “Yes, as you said, we
are only required to make regular visits
once a month, and there are only a very
few poor in our district, but you know the
Savior said, ‘Inasmuch as ye have done it
unto one of these the least, my brethren,
ye have done it unto me,’ so when I was
set apart as a teacher I resolved to try and
see where my assistance was most needed,
and what good I might do. The first thing
I did was to read the instructions given by
the Prophet Joseph Smith at the first organ-
zation of this Society, so that I might un-
derstand the object he had in creating
such an organization. I found that he said
the sisters could provoke the brethren to
good works, look after the needs of the poor
and perform charitable acts; assist in cor-
recting the morals and strengthening the
virtues of the community, and putting down
iniquity; visit the sick and distressed, laying
hands on them, and administering to them
if they so desired; exercising mercy to-
wards those who sin, letting kindness, char-
ity and love crown their works; for this
Society was not only to relieve the poor but
to save souls also.

[Column 2]
	“After reading the instructions carefully,
I thought, Oh, what a great responsibility!
How can I meet it? And then the thought
immediately followed, By being humble
and prayerful.”
	“I then prayed earnestly for wisdom,
strength and time to meet the requirements
which might be made of me. For I was
only a weak mortal, subject to faults and
imperfections, but with an earnest desire to
serve my Heavenly Father.
	“Well, my companion was a younger wom-
an than myself, with several small children,
which made it difficult for her to get away;
but one bright day I called for her, helped
her put away her dinner dishes, and after
having a few words of secret prayer, we
started out.
	“Our first calls seemed very successful and
we felt quite encouraged. We received lib-
eral donations and kind invitations to call
again. But soon we found that some were
not quite so pleased to see us and it was
almost intimated that we were beggars. Oh,
how we felt. What were we to do? We
must not miss them, that would never do,
unless they required it. We must continue
our visits, but find some way to overcome
that coldness. We must show to them by
our actions, by the spirit we possessed, and
by our conversation, that we have their
welfare at heart, and not merely their pock-
etbook.
	“We resolved to try and make our con-
versations as pleasant as possible; to care-
fully avoid all criticisms; to tell them a
little of what we were doing, and kindly
invite them to the meetings, and limit the
length of our visits to the circumstances
we found prevailing in the home which we
were visiting. After a few visits we felt
that we were accomplishing our desires, and
now they all treat us very nicely.
	“And now, just to show you how our time
was taken up, I will tell you what we did
in one month. We made our regular visit
which took one long afternoon. We went
to the regular meeting to report the con-
dition of our district, so that the Presidency
should know their circumstances; for we
know it would be impossible for the Presi-
dency to visit all the teachers even, to keep
in touch with the needs of the people. That
was another afternoon. Then there was a
family of children where the mother had
been taken away. The cold wintry days
were coming on and their quilts and cloth-
ing needed repairing, so we spent another
afternoon helping with that.
	“Then there was a social given for the
benefit of the Ward House and an abund-
ance of picnic was left. This was divided
among the Relief Society teachers, and next
day we visited the sick, the aged, the
widows and the orphans, and distributed
among them the things which we thought
would be the most suitable and pleasing. A
few days after this a young mother had
several children stricken with measles. She
was almost worn out with watching them,
for one or two were very ill. I had no
small children to take the disease, so I
stayed with her three nights to partly re-
lieve her of so much care.
	“Again, I heard of one of my friends who
had a wayward child and sorrow had come
into their home. I knew the tender feel-
ings of that mother’s heart and felt it my
ditty to go and see her. Not to be inquisi-
tive nor interfering, but, if possible, to drop 
one word of comfort and encouragement;
and I believe that that visit did me as much,

[Column 3]
or more, good than it did the one in trouble.
	“Another in my beat was a young woman
who had only been married a short time. I
knew through circumstances she could not
avoid she had not had a chance to become
very well prepared for the duties of mar-
ried life, or, in other words, of housekeep-
ing and home-making; so I thought I would
call and give her a chance to ask my advice
if she needed any. I found her very much
discouraged. Her fruit bottles would break,
the fruit boil over, the preserves burn, etc.,
and she was almost beginning to think
housekeeping was an impossibility. She
soon asked me a few questions which I an-
swered as well as I could, and kindly gave
her a few timely suggestions. Then after
telling her I would willingly assist her when-
ever she desired it, I went home leaving her
feeling much better than when I called.
	“This required six afternoons, and three
nights of my time, in one month, and then
I could see so much more I would like to do,
that I felt that I had only done a small part 
of my duty, and with only eight families
in my beat.”
	When she had finished her story I asked,
“And what recompense do you get for all
this?” She said again, “Inasmuch as ye did
it unto the least, ye did it also unto me,” and
we are laying up treasures in heaven where
moth nor dust can neither corrupt nor
thieves break through and steal. There is
where we expect to get our reward.”
	I soon left her feeling that I, too, would
strive to have something laid up for the
hereafter, and never again would I be heard
to say, “Only a Relief Society teacher.”
	Now, my sisters, this is not an overdrawn
picture. These, or similar circumstances,
are around you almost every day. It is for
you to see them. To visit the sick, to en- 
courage the down-hearted, to relieve the
poor, to uplift the fallen, to discourage
malice, back-biting, and jealousy, to encour-
age virtue, purity and honesty; to cultivate
and encourage the spirit of love, charity and
union; and assist in rolling on this great
work among the mothers and in the homes
under your watchcare.
	The responsibility is yours, and it rests
with you, as teachers, how well you accept
and perform it. Upon you it depends, to
a great extent, what the meetings are, if
they are well attended and the spirit that
prevails in them; for those who come, will, 
to a certain extent, bring with them the
spirit of the home they leave.
	The officers have been placed over this
Society, not by themselves, but by those
holding the Holy Priesthood, whose right
it is to decide if they are doing their duty 
and are worthy of that position; and it is
the privilege of the presiding officers of each
association, through faith and humility, to
discern the spirit by which every one is
working that holds an office under their
direction.
	You are placed in your position as help-
meets to these presiding officers. Your re-
sponsibility is as great as theirs. On you,
also, it depends if there is want and suffer-
ing among the unfortunate, the poor, and
the aged. You are not only teachers, but
angels of mercy, ministering peace, comfort
and consolation to the broken-hearted and
bereaved; dropping a word here and there
that will gladden the hearts of the afflicted 
and make the world brighter and better for
you having been placed upon it.
				ESTHER HOUTZ.
Jan. 2, 1913.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00 A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
 
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
is second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MIDWINTER NUMBER, 1913


WOMEN PAST AND PRESENT.
	Here and there in the Bible the names of
women have been mentioned and to those
who have made a study of the Scriptures
some of these are in a certain sense immor-
talized in their minds.
	Eve, the mother of all living, comes first
and appeals perhaps more strongly to all
the world than any other woman ever
known. We of today think of Eve as the
highest type of beauty in the Garden of
Eden, surrounded with the most charming
and delightful trees, vines and flowers.
	Then there is Sarah, who actually con-
versed with the Lord face to face, most
wonderful to contemplate! The Lord made
her promises which were literally fulfilled.
	The poetic mind picture of Rebecca at
the well who gave pure water from her
pitcher to the thirsty traveler and his weary
camels, and manifested her simple faith in
the word of the Lord, sufficient to leave her
father's home and her own country and fol-
low the faithful servant to abide in a distant
land. How perfectly illustrative of the sim-
plicity of the lives of that ancient people!
	Miriam, the sister of Moses, who, al-
though she followed him into the wilder-
ness, did not always yield gracefully to the
counsel of, her illustrious brother. There
was also Deborah who, when Israel was
without a leader, went forth at the head of
the armies and won the battle and judged
Israel forty years and there was peace in
the land.
	Ruth was firm and steadfast through her
devotion to her mother-in-law Naomi. Ruth
whose words ring down through all time
as a motto to be repeated forever:
	“Whither thou goest I will go, and where
thou lodgest I will lodge, thy people shall
be my people, and thy God, my God.”
	Huldah, the prophetess who dwelt in the
college in the temple, who read from the
book of the Law of the Lord, and told the
king what would befall the people if they
listened not to the words written therein.
	Queen Esther who succeeded in overrul-
ing the mandates of the king and thwarted
the purpose of those in power and found
royal favor.
	Those of the New Testament are even
more familiar. Mary and Martha are the
two most famous. We find mention made
of Anna the prophetess who dwelt in the


[Column 1]
temple and went not out day nor night. As
a child the writer recalls the fact of how
delightful she thought it would be to dwell
in a Temple.
	Perhaps it would be considered almost
sacrilege to call a woman a prophetess in
this day and yet one who knew Lucy Smith,
the mother of the Prophet Joseph, can
scarcely think of her except as a prophetess.
Her soulful eyes, even in her picture, re-
veal this fact.
	In what is termed the middle ages, wom-
en were as heroines and certainly they
achieved merited greatness of intellect and
ability even though the customs of that pe-
riod would not accord them the place of
equality with men.
	Hypatia was so learned in the ancient
Greek philosophy that she taught the men
of that time in lectures in the great halls
and temples of learning devoted only to the
higher thought, but because she was a
woman of such remarkable talent and cul-
ture, and could draw large audiences who
seemed spell-bound in her presence, she was
cruelly murdered by an infuriated mob,
dragged from her carriage on her way to
the great lecture hall in the city of Alexan-
dria and terribly abused, torn limb from
limb, and her bones burned to ashes. This
was about the middle of the fifth century.
	Sappho, the Greek muse, the greatest
writer of lyric poetry and song, was born
about a century later. She was exceeding-
ly beautiful, but her life is shrouded in mys-
tery. Research among the archives of that
famous city of Athens have brought from
obscurity her work and a few of her songs,
some of them being only snatches of mel-
ody, have been published.
	Coming down to a later day, we recall
Queen Elizabeth of England, who was fa-
mous for her executive ability. It was
during her reign that a great change came
about for all women of that period. Per-
haps Elizabeth was not a well-balanced
woman, nor was she as wise as she might
have been, yet she had great strength of
character, was an example of courage to
face difficulties and rise to the occasion
when a crisis came.
	Catherine II, Empress of Russia, is an-
other. Her womanly characteristics brought
about reforms and she will always stand as
a shining mark.
	The annals of history have only recorded
a few remarkable women, but in the later
times, when knowledge and higher educa-
tion have become more widely diffused,
many women, both in European countries
and eleswhere, have been recognized as
great benefactors of the world at large.
	Those who are acquainted with history
know of the great works of Harriet Mar-
tineau, Joan of Arc, also of Queen Louise
of Prussia, and of Madame de Stael and of
many others.
	Then Victoria, queen, empress, wife and
mother, whose example of each of these
will live while time lasts.
	The name of George Eliot must not be
omitted in mentioning the great women of
England. She was the greatest literary
woman that England has produced.
	America, ever since its settlement, has
made rapid strides upward in every great
cause for the world’s betterment. At the
time of the framing of the Constitution, Ab-
igail Adams wrote her husband that in that
important document women must be con-
sidered, proving her courage and her own

[Column 2]
wisdom, in thus standing foremost for the
cause of woman’s equality with men.
	After the Revolution and peace was re-
stored, women in America were busy with
household cares, and it was a long time
before great things were achieved by them,
but the practice of slavery in the south and
the abhorrence of it in the north provoked
dissension. A convention was called in Lon-
don and both men and women were sent as
delegates from the United States. The
women, however, were not allowed the priv-
ilege of delegates—could not take their
seats, but watched the proceedings from be-
hind curtains in the gallery. Some of the
men were loyal enough to sit with the
women.
	Out of this circumstance grew the first
woman’s rights convention in America, at
Seneca Falls, New York, July 19, 1848. The
dear old Quakeress Lucretia Mott, was the
leading spirit, being the first woman to
stand on the platform and speak for equal
suffrage. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, then on
her wedding tour, was one who stemmed
the tide of ridicule and opposition. Susan
B. Anthony, a young woman school teacher,
joined forces with the little band.
	We must not omit Margaret Fuller who,
early in the nineteenth century, stood with
the greatest men of that day for the high-
est development of woman.
	In other lines: higher education, temper-
ance, equal pay for equal work, etc., etc.,
let mention be made of Frances Willard,
whose statue stands in the hall of Congress,
Florence Nightingale, and Clara Barton,
whose life-long services for soldiers and
sailors have been honored the world over.
	Julia Ward Howe is considered by many
as the greatest woman of her time, a great
writer, speaker, poet and philanthropist.
Her “Battle Hymn of the Republic” has
won for her fame and favor wherever it
has been sung.
	Susan B. Anthony stands foremost, in
memory as the strongest minded of the
women of a century that has produced
many magnificent characters as examples
of greatness.
	Lucy Stone, whose career as a young
woman was very remarkable, and who
founded the Woman’s Journal in Boston,
over fifty years ago, deserves the gratitude
of the women of the world, for the Journal
has indeed been a blessing unto all.
	Women in the present day, who are do-
ing much in the way of achievement, both
in this and other countries, are more nu-
merous than in the past: Olive Schreiner,
in far off Africa, Ellen Key, Marie Corelli,
Sarah Bernhardt, Mme. Montford, and in
our own land, Caroline M. Severance, Char-
lotte Perkins Gilman, Jane Addams, May
Wright Sewall, Carrie Chapman Catt, Rev.
Anna H. Shaw, Rev. Olympia Brown, Abi-
gail Scott Dunniway, Bertha Honore Pal-
mer and Alice Stone Blackwell.
	The pioneer women of Utah faced all
sorts of difficulty with the courage of the
Pilgrim Fathers from whom many of them
were descended. One of the foremost is
Eliza R. Snow, a pioneer of 1847, a poet,
writer, and a woman of great spiritual
power. Her hymn, “O My Father,” has
been translated into many languages, and is
sung the world over. Zina D. H. Young
and her sister, Prescindia H. Kimball, pos-
sessed in a large degree the gift of healing.
Their names are household words wherever
known.

[Column 3]
	Sarah M. Kimball, one of the most pro-
gressive of the women of the west, stood as
firm for women’s equal rights with men
here in the west as Susan B. Anthony her-
self.
	These women who have been men-
tioned stand as types of others who have
given their best efforts for the elevation of
the human race; philanthropists in very
deed also, standing for purtity and right-
eousness.
	Now is the time for the younger women
to come forth and take hold and they must
not be “weary in well doing.” The way has
been paved through adverse circumstances
and now, in the enlightenment of the world
with all the new advantages they can gain
the goal for which all of these noble charac-
ters have been striving.


THE NEW YEAR—1913.
	What will the New Year bring to the
world at large! Doubtless many strange
and wonderful things—new ideas of ser-
vice and religion, perhaps, new inventions
to lighten labor, to speed the methods of
travel by land and sea, and many changes
to improve the world and its people. Let
us hope it will bring increased prosperity
to the Latter-day Saints.
	Considering the wonderful forward
strides made in the use of electricity, one
could almost imagine that lightning might
yet be utilized and serve some needful pur-
pose instead of only making momentary
displays in the heavens that fill ordinary
mortals with alarm.
	Since the opening of the twentieth cen-
tury one can look forward with intense in-
terest in the anticipation of what is to be
in the years that are fast reaching toward
us with new and strange, even marvelous,
events such as have not been known since
this grand world was created. Man is the
agent through whom the Lord is working
to bring to pass his great purposes, and
though we see the great increase of knowl-
edge and power to handle the elements that
exist, yet we know there is a superior force
underlying it all, propelling, as it were, the
machinery of man's brain and faculties to
accomplish the designs of One mightier than
man in bringing to perfection matter which
had lain dormant, for the use and benefit of
mankind, that the earth may become like
unto the garden of Eden, and man and
woman purified to dwell therein.
	Who could have believed even a century
ago that the elements that actually existed
could have been so ingeniously wrought
upon by man's experiments as to produce
such results as have given to the world
such benefits, such luxuries even, as the most
hopeful never dreamed of in their utmost
expectancy? Mother Shipton's prophecy has
more than come to pass, and in the contem-
plation of what has been done in recent
years, what may we not look forward to
in the near future!


[Column 1]
		ANNUAL GREETING.
Beloved Sisters:—
	In view of the near approach of the 17th
of March, on which date the sisters of the
Relief Society the world over celebrate an-
nual day, it is only fitting and proper to
issue in the columns of the Relief Society

[Column 2]
paper a circular letter of greetings and a
few facts concerning the benevolent and
philanthropic work done by this society, to
encourage the sisters who so willingly and
generously labor. The true enjoyment and
satisfaction that is felt by those who are
engaged in the duties that pertain to their
calling can never be estimated.
	Precious treasures are laid up in store
for those who do the bidding of their
Father in heaven. Jesus said, “Inasmuch
as ye do it unto the least of these ye do it
unto me.”
	The year past has been one of the most
beneficial in the work of this organization.
	From reports of wards we learn that tes-
timony meetings have been more frequent
and these will assuredly result in an in-
crease of faith which is most desirable if
the Saints are to accomplish the great work
prophesied of in the past. We cannot be
too much in earnest in our endeavors to
promote faith among the young.
	A great deal has been given by the so-
ciety during the past year. The famine in
China caused a great disturbance and the
Relief Society was not behind in sending
help. Liberal donations were sent to the
Mississippi flood sufferers.
	Two new stakes have been added to our
number, making sixty-five stakes in all, and
the Northwestern States Mission, with
fourteen branches, has been organized with
a Relief Society president and executive
officers at its head.
	The one serious regret is that the trou-
ble in Mexico has broken up a very pros-
perous stake of Zion. Many Relief Soci-
ety houses erected through the efforts and
exertions of the members themselves, have
been destroyed by the lawless Mexicans,
and in one instance the Relief Society
building used for a stable.
	Taken all in all, there is every reason to
congratulate the workers in the organiza-
tion, also those who contribute means and
sustain the forward movements made from
time to time for the uplift of the unfor-
tunate. The Relief Society sisters are the
ones who deserve the credit and the praise
for along these lines they work day by day,
urging the discouraged to look on the
bright side of life and wear a smiling face
even in trouble, “believing that behind every
cloud there is a silver lining.”
	We are, at any rate, an able army of
workers who stand for right and are eager
watchers for the best methods obtainable
for reaching and helping all classes.
	We realize that the movement that
sprang from one little circle of women has
grown and become strong and vigorous, for
there are over forty thousand enrolled
workers, and it requires more material,
more wisdom, to manage the affairs of so
great an organization scattered over many
lands.
	From year to year the association has
been made stronger, for younger women
have taken an interest and become enthu-
siastic in the different departments—the
mothers’ work, the domestic science and
other studies along educational lines. The
Book of Mormon has been introduced with
maps to explain the situations.
	The genealogical class is a new feature
in the routine of study, introduced during
the last year.
	Altogether these different subjects give
variety and make the meetings much more

[Column 3]
interesting and attractive, thus increasing
the number who attend and benefiting
them in an educational as well as a spiritual
way.
	There is every reason to rejoice in the
growth and excellence and improved stand-
ing of the society throughout the world,
and the outlook is hopeful for the future in-
crease in numbers and in a better under-
standing and knowledge of what is possible
for the betterment of all mankind.
	We earnestly hope that before another
annual day there may be much more ac-
complished than has been during any of the
past years.
	May peace, love and the blessings of the
Lord be and abide with you in all your un-
dertakings.
	Faithfully, your sisters and co-laborers,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS, President
		CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, 1st Couselor
		JULINA L. SMITH, 2nd Counselor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FOREIGN LETTER.
	[With Mrs. Barrett’s permission we take
pleasure in publishing the following letter
written to the president of the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States, thinking
it will enlighten the members of the organiza-
tion in regard to present conditions.—THE
EDITOR.]
		1 Rubislaw Terrace, Aberdeen,
					December 13, 1912.
Dear Mrs. Waller Barrett:
	In sending you a Christmas card today, I
wish also to tell you how warmly I wel-
come you as President of the National
Council of Women of the U. S. A., and
therefore on the Executive Committee of
the International Council of Women. I
have also heard from Lady Aberdeen of the
much better prospects for the United States
Council, and I wish with all my heart that
under your Presidency the Council may en-
joy a period of fruitful growth and ex-
pansion, and become from East to West,
and North to South, a power in the land
that shall worthily reflect the influence, ex-
traordinary in its kind, which the women of
the States are known to have exerted in
the wonderful development of the States.
Nowhere are the problems of women’s
sphere, dignity, place and economic values
more complex than in the States! Their
variability in one place and another is such
that anything like a common standard of
right must be almost an impossibility. And
precisely this feature presents the call for
a thoroughly organized Woman’s Council,
clear in its ideals, with a committee pene-
trated by the purest and highest ideals,
and yet individually filled with a patience
and wisdom that shall enable them to grasp
the difficulties in the various localities, and
to help the local workers gradually to a
fuller understanding and a common level of
the moral and economic position of women
in society and the State. If I realize, this
difficulty of local feeling even as between
my own town of Aberdeen and the city of
Edinburgh, or of Glasgow in Scotland, and
again in Manchester, or towns like Notting-
ham in England, and again the great chasm
between all of these and London, I can well
imagine what a tremendous problem you
women of the United States are up against! 
My full sympathies and good wishes are
with you, and I should like you to tell your
colleagues how warmly I wish them God-
speed. We know well in Great Britain what
the women of the present day owe to the
insight and courage of the women of the
United States; it is true the traditions of


long centuries held us back here; these are
the mountains we have to lift, but in a way
we know they can and will be lifted, be-
cause they are measurable and known, and
we have simply to plan the best means of
overcoming obstacles which have a certain
uniformity in character in spite of variabil-
ity in detail. But you in America have to
meet a constantly changing meshwork of
human and economic problems. What you
may plan in one place can be of no use in
another. Your mountains of difficulty seem
to me to be making and building themselves
as fast as you go forward, owing to your
steady influx of people and rapid growth of
new communities. Organization, complete
and yet elastic, is the hope of your Council,
and the country whose women gave the In-
ternational Council of Women to the world
is well able to produce an organization that
shall meet even the exceptional difficulties
of the States! I am looking forward with
pleasure to meeting yourself and other
Council workers at The Hague in a few
months. I don’t know where Miss Keys is
at present, but I sent copies of my letter
as Convener of the I. C. W. Education Com-
mittee to you and Mrs. Jameson-Miller, as
well as to Miss Keys, and I shall be glad
if you happen to have an early opportunity
of consulting your committee whether there
is any resolution connected with education-
al affairs that you wish to put forward at
The Hague as suitable for consideration
at the Quinquennial Council meetings.
How are the education and choice of em-
ployment bureaus for boys and girls pro-
gressing in the States? I have had a good
deal of correspondence asking for my ad-
vice from educationists in New York State,
Massachusetts, Illinois, Chicago, etc., and I
know for certain of several schools that are
following the system I started in Edinburgh.
Boston, for example, has been developing
the work splendidly in connection with the
Board of Education.
Ever kindly yours,
MARIA M. OGILVIE GORDON,
Vice President
International Council of Women.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THEORETICAL DANGERS AND REAL
			DANGERS.
	The militarists demand this winter three
or four new battleships, but can conjure up
no fresh danger to justify these. Their plea
is that we shall lose our place as the second
naval power if we do not provide them.
They are infatuated with the glow of a bad
eminence as is a child bragging of his
father’s having a bigger mortgage than his
neighbor’s, or a citizen in peaceful Ohio
that he has more “peacemakers in his hip
pocket” than the feudsman in the Kentucky
mountains. Unlike Germany, our country
stands in no dread of the greatest naval
power on earth with whom we are presently
to celebrate a hundred years of peace and
with whom we can have a complete arbitra-
tion compact the moment that two-thirds of
our Senate will permit. We face no dan-
gers that threaten France or Germany, yet
we are vainly ambitious to keep ahead of
them in the nations’ mad race toward bank-
ruptcy. No nation can make our boast that
“We have never yet been attacked, we be-
gan every foreign war we ever had. We
have no enemy in the wide world and we
are protected by two great oceans.”


Though standing like a giant in our se-
curity, looking at the Continental nations
which in that respect are pigmies, we tim-
idly cry out that: “We dare not lead them
on the path that all must sooner or later take,
but since we glory in leadership we will take
their downward path and go them one bet-
ter.” What matters it to these military
alarmists that our protection from fire is so
slight that we annually burn up seven times
as much as all Europe; that last year 35,000
citizens were killed and half a million
wounded in the constant industrial warfare
in which we give our toilers such feeble
weapons of defense; that every year 600,000
Americans perish needlessly. This means
that forty per cent of all who die are vic-
tims of preventable conditions—conditions
which could be changed if we cared more
for human life than for “prestige.” What
care these scaremongers for the refusal of
Congress to appropriate an addition $75,000
to our National Educational Bureau when
it pays $15,000,000 for one battleship? or
for the fact that Congress has given to the
National Children’s Bureau annually much
less than the annual cost for repairs on two
torpedo destroyers?
	Why all this folly about vain prestige and
supposititous danger in presence of the real
and awful dangers in our midst? Has the
safest country in the world the moral cour-
age to sink its poor ambitions and divert
the new expenditure asked for three new
battleships to saving the lives of citizens
who will otherwise have perished before a
year has passed?
LUCIA AMES MEAD,
Chairman Peace Dept. of
Nat. Council of Women.


HOME SOCIALS.
	It is hard to always say the right things
at the right time and place; and many times
when mother feels in the mood of giving
advice and instructions, children turn and
are not willing to receive it. I am sure it
is a splendid plan to have a time set apart
in the home, to read a little scripture each
day, and a little talk on home duties, and
what we owe to each other.
	That, with our family prayers, will keep
the home machinery running more smooth-
ly, draw family ties more closely, children
and parents will understand each other bet-
ter. And children will reverence home and
parents more. It brings a sweet spirit in
the home.
	Oh, if we would only take the time, and
not get in such a hurry to get through life
that we cannot take time for these little
family courtesies. They will be remembered
by all in after life with greater satisfaction
than anything else.
	If we start in this way it will become a
habit, and we can arrange our affairs ac-
cordingly, just as well as we can arrange
for our meals.
	If we have order and system in our
homes this will not take up much ot our
time, and our little talks will assist in hav-
ing better order.
	Now, if we are seeking for the future
welfare of our family, we will institute this
in some degree in the home.
	If it is impossible through our avocations
of life to have this all week, devote one
hour on the Sabbath should it be more con-

[Column 2]
venient, then one other evening in the week
could be taken as a family social.
	Prepare some nice programme, with
talks, music, comic sayings, readings, sing-
ing, recitations, games, refreshments, lec-
tures, either of these or a number of them
mixed. But let that night be kept for the
family social, and not interfered with for
anything, if it possibly can be avoided.
Father, mother, and each child should all
be there to enjoy this family social together.
It may save many a heart ache, and may
save us from going down in sorrow to the
grave, and our loved ones from going
astray.
	I am sure we will have no regrets for
our efforts in this direction. For it will
cause our dear ones to love home and
family ties more, and not care to stray away
for other amusements. Let us try this,
though we may have to make sacrifice for
it, yet it will pay four fold in the end. Noth-
ing introduced of course but that which is
wholesome and good. We cannot realize
how much we are losing by neglecting
this blessed duty.
	This would be a good time occasionally
to talk over affairs of home life, and sug-
gest methods of improvement that will ben-
efit home and each member thereof, and
each one have a part in it. And thus they
will be more interested, bringing unity in
improvements of all kinds. The same may
be done in financial concerns of the home,
parents and all sharing the burdens to-
gether. Let each member take his part in
these home evenings, saving any little thing
they think would contribute to the pleasure
of the family for that occasion, taking care
nothing gets monotonous. Always keep the
children near you (that is, their confidence).
Never let them think they can draw away
from being close companions of father and
mother. We may be successful in many
ways in life, in fact, everything else, yet if
our home is not what it should be, if our
loved go astray, life seems a failure indeed.
	There are opposing powers to all things
which are good. We have to battle with
them. So do not give up or despair, but
try again.					COM.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		GRANITE STAKE
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of Granite stake convened in the
stake tabernacle Tuesday, November 19,
1912, beginning at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.,
President Leonora T. Harrington presid-
ing.
	After the usual opening exercises, Pres-
ident Harrington and Counselors Laura E.
Cutler and Emily M. Brinton, made brief
remarks and desired that the Spirit of the
Lord would attend us in our conference.
	The morning session was devoted princi-
pally to reports and testimonies of the ward
presidents.
	President Ann E. B. Neff of East Mill
Creek felt that the work of ministering to
the sick and needy was a beautiful one. She
gave an encouraging report of the work of
her society and said there was much inter-
est manifested in the “outline of lessons.”
	Solo, “Jesus, I my cross have taken,”
Emily Coultas and Choir.  
	Other sisters to report the work being
accomplished in the local societies were: Is-


[Column 1]
abelle Walters of Mill Creek, Mary A. Web-
ster of Taylorsville, and Sarah J. Lester of
Murray Second Ward.
	Members of the Stake Board—Sisters
Harriet J. Miller and Katherine H. Brock-
bank, expressed their joy and satisfaction in
the labors of the Relief Society and their
desire to uphold and sustain those in author- 
ity over them.
	Member of the General Board, Sister 
Sarah McLelland paid a tribute to the mem-
ory and character of Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards. Nothing more beautiful can be said
than that which was said of her, “She was a
friend to the poor.”
	Closed by singing “As the dews from
heaven distilling.”
	Benediction by Sister Mary E. Porter.
	Conference was resumed at 2 p. m.
	Singing, “All hail the glorious day.”
	Prayer, Sister Sarah A. Turnbow.
	Singing, “Pilgrim’s Chorus,” by the choir.
	Visitors present were: President Emme-
line B. Wells, Counselor Julina L. Smith,
Sister Sarah McClelland of the General
Board, and Sister Julia M. Brixen of the
Y. L. M. I. A.
	The General and Stake Relief Society
officers were unanimously sustained.
	The following presidents continued their
reports: Addie M. Cannon, Forest Dale;
Sarah A. Brown, Murray First Ward; Ellen
M. Sperry, of Waterloo.
	Choir sang “Peace, Be Still.”
	Counselor Julina L. Smith was pleased
with the reports of the presidents, and felt
that the Relief Society work is improving.
Advised the teachers to be gentle and kind
in approaching the backward poor, those
who are reluctant in making their wants
known. Gave an interesting account of her
trip to Portland, her visit to the “Babies
Home,” and the work of the Saints there
in providing clothes and toys for these chil-
dren.
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave inter-
esting reminiscences of her trip to Europe
to the International Council and Congress
of Women, held in London, in 1899.
	In closing her remarks prayed that the
Lord will bless and help us in the noble
work of charity, that we may be kind, and
tender, and loving, and filled with the spirit
of humility.
	Singing, “Let us all press on,” 
	The benediction was pronounced by Sis-
ter Julia M. Brixen, and the Conference was
adjourned for six months.
			PRUDENCE BROWN,
						Secretary.

			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Minutes of Oneida Stake Relief Society
Conference on Nov. 30, 1912, at Preston
First Ward meeting house.
	President L. B. Benson presiding. 
	Singing, “Hail to the brightness,” etc.
	Prayer, Millie Golightly.
	Singing, “If you could hie to Kolob.”
	Roll call denoted 10 stake officers present,
	3 excused, 17 societies represented.
	Lucy D. Parkinson welcomed all present.
The morning session was devoted to the
Relief Society teachers of the stake. Pres-
dent Benson gave special instructions to
them on their duties, viz., (a) making
monthly visits, (b) seeing sick are cared
for, (c) bringing peace and encouragement
to the home, (d) advise, where it is re-
quired, those in trouble, (e) give spiritual,
as well as temporal food, to, all.

[Column 2]
	“Scatter Sunshine” was sung by Lucy
Cutler and Dora Geddes, assisted by the
board. Counselor Hannah Mickleson spoke
to the teachers on their high calling, advised
them to pray together before beginning
their visits, and to seek to magnify their
work.
	Mrs. Nickleson of Logan addressed the
conference. Spoke on her work in the Re-
lief Society, said her family had never suf-
fered in her absence.
	Dora Geddes, Mary Shaffer, Millie Go-
lightly, Margaret Dunkley, Chloe Howell,
and Adeline Lowe, each encouraged the
teachers to do their duties.
	President L. B. Benson endorsed what
had been said, especially the thought of
teachers praying together, said not to refuse
to bless the sick when asked to do so.
	Duet, Lucy Cutler and Dora Geddes,
“Make the World Brighter.”
	Benediction, Sarah Feldsted.
	Afternoon Session—Singing, “Zion
stands with hills surrounded.”
	Prayer, Peter Mickleson.
	Duet, “O My Father,” Lucy Cutler and
Dora Geddes.
	Treasurer’s report approved.
	General and Stake officers were sus-
tained.
	Jennie W. Rallison gave the lesson on the
ninth commandment.
	Congregation sang, “Truth reflects upon
our senses.”
	Phebe McNeil spoke on “Why we should
attend sacrament meetings.”
	Nellie T. Johnson, Stake president of the
Y. L. M. I. A., spoke on the relationship of
her work to Relief Society, asked for the
co-operation of the mothers.
	Marinda Skidmore, Stake president of
the Primary, spoke of the importance of the
Primary work.
	Singing, “Oh Awake My Slumbering
Minstrel.”
	President Benson said that in connection
with the other lessons given the Relief So-
ciety in the coming year special lectures on
moral training of our children would be
given.
	Minnie Geddes of North Ogden spoke on
Relief Society work, asked all to be true
Latter-day Saints.
	President Joseph Geddes said he was
pleased with the work of the Relief Society,
also said a true home depends largely on a
good mother, if our children are guided
aright, all will be well with us.
	Counselor Taylor Nelson said, all organi-
zations of the Church advance the work of
the Lord. He appreciated the Relief So-
ciety work.
	Counselor Jas. Johnson expressed appre-
ciation of the Relief Society work.
	After singing “Praise to the Man” and
benediction by John Larson, conference ad-
journed for six months.
		PHEBE A. M. McNIEL, Sec.
	LINDA N. BENSON, Cor. Sec.
	
			NEBO STAKE.
	Nebo Stake Relief Society conference
held at Salem Ward, Dec. 13, 1912.
	Morning Session, President Eliza J.
Dixon presiding. After the opening exer-
cises, Sister Mary A. Gardner, president of
Salem Relief Society, gave a hearty wel-
come to all. President Dixon responded to
welcome given and said the Relief Society
work was progressing; all the wards but

[Column 3]
two have been visited twice this year by the
board. The reports given by the various
ward presidents were very encouraging, and
show that all are trying to do their part.
	Song, Matilda Hanks and Amy Holder.
	Bishop N. C. Christensen said the Relief
Society was surely a great help in the ward.
	Sister Pierce spoke of the great work the
teachers of the Relief Society were doing;
asked God to bless all.
	Singing. Prayer by Brother William
Gardner.
	Adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	Conference reconvened at 1:30 p. m.
	Singing, Anthem.
	Prayer, Brother Monk, Palmyra Ward.
	Singing, “An Angel from on High.”
	Minutes of previous afternoon session
were read and accepted.
	Clara R. Evans spoke on the address of
Madam von Mountford, who had been in
the Holy Land, and spoke in an interesting
way of the birth of the Savior.
	Martha S. Kapple said that the way of the
people of the world was to make their own
families happy on Christmas, but the Latter-
day Saints thought of the poor and the mis-
sionaries as well as their own loved ones.
	Song, Mary Lamb, “Silver Threads
Among the Gold.”
	Brother Francis Hanks thought every sis-
ter should know and understand the gospel.
Spoke of the general duties that devolve up-
on all.
	Caroline Roach, member of the stake
board, read an article on Christmas-present
giving. Said it was better to give than to
receive.
	President Dixon read “A Greeting” of
President Bathsheba W. Smith to the Relief
Society sisters throughout the world, writ-
ten some time before her death. Hoped none
would feel Relief Society work a burden,
but would take new interest in the work.
Thanked the people of Salem for their hos-
pitality during conference. 
	Singing, “Praise to the Man.”
	Prayer, Brother George Hanks.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
					JULIA SABIN,
						Secy. Pro Tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Sister Ellen McNeal Pedon died at her home
in Torre[-] Dec. 18. 1912. Sister Pedon was the
wife of Robert N. Pedon and the daughter of
Alexander McNeal and Gennett Young; was born
in Darvel, A[-]rshire, Scotland, Nov. 25. 1861. Was
married to Robert N. Pedon in 1882. Became
a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints in December, 1892. Baptized by
Wm. McAllister and confirmed same day by Elder
John McQueen. Emigrated to Utah with her
husband in 1893. Stopped in Logan, Cache Co.
	In 1894 they went to Alberta, Canada, and
came to Torrey in 1899, where they have re-
mained. She leaves a faithful husband and son
and many friends to mourn her loss. Sister
Pedon has been President of the Primary of
Torrey ward for a number of years, and at the
time of her death she was a faithful secretary
in our Sunday School, and assistant secretary
and teacher in the Relief Society, and her place
will be hard to fill. She has now gone to reap
her reward and join the loved ones gone before.
Gone from sorrow, grief and anguish,
Gone no more with pain to languish,
Gone, thy longing soul set free,
But Oh! how hard to part with thee.
RESOLUTIONS IN HONOR OF SISTER
ELLEN PEDON.
	Whereas, in the allwise providence of our
Heavenly Father it has pleased Him to call from
our midst Sister Ellen Pedon, assistant secretary


and teacher in the Relief Society in the Torrey
ward
	Therefore, be it resolved, that in the passing
away of our beloved sister, we, the officers and
members of said association, are bereft of a wise
teacher and a cheerful and loving associate. Sis-
ter Pedon was ever ready at the call of duty, no
matter what her physical suffering might have
been; she carried not her own burdens but light-
ened those of others. The needy and suffering
ones found her a ministering angel in the truest
sense of the word. Her gentle presence filled
her home with comfort and delight.
	Resolved, that we mourn the loss of our sister
and appreciate the worthy example set by her.
	We, her sisters and co-laborers, extend to her
bereaved husband and son our heartfelt sympathy
and pray God to comfort them in their great
sorrow.
	Be it further resolved, that we place a copy of
these resolutions on our records, send one to the
bereaved family and one to the EXPONENT for
publication.
	Mary E. Forsyth, President; Maria A. Pierce,
1st Counselor; Rena Hall, 2nd Counselor.
A TRIBUTE.
	To a dear departed friend, who died Decem-
ber 10. 1912, who was nearly 82 years old. with
whom I have been acquainted ever since Oct. 8,
1868. Always found her a true friend and kind-
hearted; she was a good woman, faithful and
true; a teacher in the 11th ward Relief Society
for many years—Sarah G. McMaster. She was
chosen President in the month of April, 1892, of
the 11th ward Relief Society. She was always
thinking of the poor—what she could do for their
benefit, and on account of ill health in the month
of July, 1907, she resigned her labors. I have
always loved her for her integrity. I was her
treasurer and was so well acquainted with her;
with her kind acts and her loving disposition, and
sincerely mourn her loss.
MARIA RIDGOOD BARNES.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	In memory of Emi W. Peterson, Second
Counselor in the Mapleton Relief Society,
who departed this life Dec. 6, 1912.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father in His.
wisdom has called from our midst our be-
loved sister and co-laborer, be it
	Resolved, that we, the officers and mem-
bers of the Mapleton Relief Society, do ac-
knowledge the hand of God in this separa-
tion, and extend to the family and friends
our heartfelt sympathy and condolence in
this their hour of sad bereavement; realiz-
ing that we, too, with them, have lost a
faithful mother, sister and friend; yet
knowing that God doeth all things well.
Ever praying that His spirit may comfort
and bless her husband and family, bringing
joy and consolation to their aching hearts.
	May the precepts of her life ever be kept
sacred in our memory as a guiding star
throughout our future existence.
“Mother, sister, thou hast left us,
And our loss we deeply feel;
But ’tis God that hath bereft us,
He can all our sorrows heal.
“Yet again we hope to meet thee,
When the day of life is fled.
Then in heaven with joy to greet thee
Where no farewell tear is shed.”
	Eugenia Roundy, President; Frances
Snow. 1st Counselor; Elizabeth B. Full-
mer, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUTLINES.
For one public lecture and three days'
work for use in teaching Gene-
alogical classes
Public Lecture (preferably in Sunday ser-
vice) for purposes of explanation and
conversion.
History of the Utah Genealogical So-
ciety.


Other Similar Societies.
	Necessity of Membership in Utah Soci-
ety.
	The Utah Genealogical and Historical
Magazine. Subscribe right now.
	Conclusion.
How to Secure Genealogical Material.
	Membership in the Society. The Library.
	Through Correspondence.
	Through Our European Agents.
	Through Our Library Workers.
	Writing to Home Towns, Parishes, and
Central Libraries.
	War Records, Deeds, Wills, Parish and
Shire Records.
	Genealogists in the World, Exorbitant
Charges.
	Going Abroad.
How to Prepare Genealogical Material.
	Old Letters, Old Bibles, Old Family Rec-
ords of Temple Work.
	Tradition. The Value and Danger of
Family Traditions.
	Modes of Printing and Preparing Gen-
ealogies.
	The Methods Adopted by the Church
Authorities.
	The Chart Family Form.
	Note. This last lesson can be expanded
to five, ten, or twenty lessons. If students
reside in Salt Lake City, Library methods
of securing information would be clearly
explained. For country districts, this would
be unnecessary.
MATERIALS REQUIRED FOR TEACHING CLASSES
IN GENEALOGY.
	Note book, soft pencil, best ink.
	Circulars from the Salt Lake Temple.
	Circulars from the Genealogical Society
of Utah.
	Sample sheets from family records of
Temple work.
	Lesson book.
	English guide book.
	American index.
	Baring-Gould’s Story of Family Names.
	Burke’s Peerage.
	Savage’s Genealogical Dictionary of New
England Families.
	History of Old Framingham.
	N. E. G. Hist. and Gen. Magazines.
	Utah Hist. and Gen. Magazines.
	Blackboard (flexible) with model family
painted thereon.
	Blackboard (flexible) for use in illus-
trating.
	Note. Most of this material is already,
owned by members of the Woman’s Com-
mittee, and would be available for this pur-
pose. Where this is not the case, we would
ask the Society to supply our needs.


BOOK REVIEW.
	The book, recently published, entitled
"The Holy Land," by Lydia D. Alder, is
the first book of its kind in Utah.
	Mrs. Alder has made herself quite fa-


miliar with that historical country, and is
therefore able to speak of it intelligently
and is able to relate facts and incidents that
can be relied upon. The book is beautifully
illustrated throughout, and contains orig-
nal poems by the author upon subjects per-
taining to the orient.
	Bible students will find the book most
helpful in the research of those wonderful
countries, of which we in this far western
land know so little. It makes a handsome
table volume besides containing so much in-
teresting and high class reading matter.
Those who are anxious to visit those far-
off lands should study its pages carefully.
They will thus learn much of the customs
and manners of that ancient race which will
be beneficial when traveling through the
much talked of Land of the Jews and the
Pyramids and Solomon’s Temple.
	We recommend the book highly, and
congratulate Mrs. Alder on the success
achieved, and trust she will find apprecia-
tion here and elsewhere.


Gertrude Atherton and Beatrice Harra-
den spoke on "The Progress of Women"
for the League for Political Education in
New York on Feb. 19. Beatrice Harraden
talked on "The Woman Movement in Eng-
land," and Gertrude Atherton told of her
experiences in California during the presi-
dential campaign.


MAP
FOR BOOK OF MORMON STUDY
		By Vincy R. Barker
Prepared Especially for Relief Society Classes
	Approved by the General Board
	Designed to give the student a general view
and lasting impression of Book of Mormon
lands from the beginning of Nephite and Jar-
edite history at Jerusalem and Babylon, Asia,
to their close in America.
	With the arrangement of the map of the
World with the Western Hemisphere at the
right we see at once all the countries and the
leading cities involved in Book of Mormon and
early Church history.
	Because of the uncertainty and difference of
opinion existing in regard to the location of
Book of Mormon points only such locations
are made as our leading Book of Mormon stu-
dents seem to harmonize upon, leaving teach-
ers to make minor locations for their own use
according to their own interpretation of the
text.
	Listed upon the map are:
	1st. Authority for all locations made.
	2nd. Under the name of their respective
countries all the cities not located with their
reference in the text and date of first mention.
	3rd. The Hills with reference.
	Large size 24x35 inch, cloth, mounted, $2.00,
per dozen, $20.00.
	Small size, 10x15 inch, paper, 15 cents, per
dozen, $1.25,
	Special terms to Stakes desiring to place
small ones in their outlines and large ones in
Ward Societies,
	VINCY R. BARKER
1144 Washington Ave.	Ogden, Utah

R K. THOMAS CO.,
67-69 MAIN STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
Waists at Popular Prices.	.	.	.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


[the following is hand written at the top of the page]
Beaver
Ma[--] [-]. White

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Organ of the Latter-day Saints' Woman's Relief Society.

