Vol. 41.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1912.	No. 4.


CONTENTS.
Elizabeth Ann Whitney....................E. B. W.		25
Relief Society Reports—
	Emery Stake..........................................		26
	Wayne Stake..........................................		26
Book Review................Annie Wells Cannon		26
In Memoriam................................................		27
Tribute and Resolutions................................		27
Mrs. Frazer’s Book.......................................		27
One Christmas Eve.........................Aunt Em		29
Editorial—
	Peace and Good Will.............................		28
	Suggestive Thoughts..............................	28
	Emma Lucy Gates and Romania Hdye..	28
	An Old Fashioned Party.........................	29
	Notes About Women..............................	29
Poetry—
	The Mother and Child............................	
	.............................Maud Ellen Baggarly		25
	Reverie......................................E. B. W.	25
	Then and Now.................Lydia D. Alder	27
	Farewell............................Nellie Becroft	27


THE MOTHER AND CHILD.
		A Christmas Poem
	By Maud Ellen Baggarly.
		The Virgin—
Then hail to thee, Mother of Jesus,
	Hail to thy office high!
That giveth to spirits temples,
	That giveth gods to the sky.
Rejoice in motherhood’s rapture,
	Rejoice in its sorrow and pain,
Rejoice in the understanding of all things
	Thou dost gain.
Rejoice in eternal progression;
	In exaltation above;
In endless lives of glory;
	Rejoice that God is love!
			The Child—
	In a manger cradled low,
	Yet on thy brow like drifted snow,
	Or a lotus pure and white,
	Peace doth lay her crown of light.
	In thy hand curled rose-bud wise
	A work of faith and healing lies.
	Yet thine eyes, love-kissed to sleep,
	O’er an erring world shall weep.
	Tho’ in a stable thou wert born,
	Thine earthly crown to be of thorn,
	Pain thy portion—heart of love—
	God doth watch thee from above!
	On thy birth-night angels sing
	And beneath—a sheltering wing
	Thou dost sleep,
	And the Heavens vigil keep.
	Long before the earth took form
	Looked thou forward to the thorn,
	Looked thou forward to the tree.
	Sacrifice was sweet to thee!
	When the stars of Heaven sang,
	When with shouts the mansions rang,
	When the Son of Morning fell,
	Thou thy mission knew full well.
	But sleep, O babe, while mother sings,
	Sleep, O Christ, thou King of kings!


REVERIE.
If in our way some shadows in the year
	Darkened our path and hid the light from
		view,
Now, looking back through mists of bitter
		tears,
	We know whose Hand guided us safely
		through.			—E. B. W.


[Column 1]
	ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY.
			A SKETCH. 
[Image of Elizabeth Ann Whitney]
	A mother in Israel in very deed, one
whose name is connected with the early his-
tory of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints from the establishment of
the organization and from the days of Kirt-
land, Ohio.
	Her face, even here, is like a beautiful
Madonna and her voice was one of the rar-
est and sweetest tone, the recollection of
which can never be forgotten, especially if
she sang in the gift of tongues. It was said
by the Prophet Joseph that she sang in
the language spoken in the Garden of Eden,
and this gift she retained during her long
life, more than four score years.
	In her nature she was very gentle, and
possessed in a marked degree the spirit of
prophecy.
	Before the advent of Mormonism in Kirt-
land (when she and her husband were mem-
bers of the Campbellite church) she had a
remarkable vision which was in the form of
a cloud and rested upon the house, signify-
ing, according to the Hebrew version, “The
Daughter of the Covenant.”
	When she sang with her husband, Bishop
Newel K. Whitney, who accompanied her
in his fine tenor voice—the music was al-
most sublime. In those early days in the
“thirties,” it was said to be like enchantment
to listen to the songs of Zion rendered by
those untrained singers.
	Sister Whitney had other accomplish-
ments, one of them spinning flax on a little
wheel to make fine linen, and she also spun
wool and was an excellent seamstress.
	In manner she was graceful and dignified
and one might truthfully say of her, “a lady
of the old school.”
	Edward W. Tullidge, in writing of her,
called her the Hebrew type.
	When the Relief Society was organized

[Column 2]
in Nauvoo, Ill., Mrs. Whitney was chosen
by the “elect lady,” Emma Smith, as one of
her counselors, and she often presided at
the meetings of that select society, as the
records show. Her faith was unbounded in
the everlasting gospel, and she was, in her-
self, an inspiration to younger women.
	After the martyrdom of the prophet and
patriarch the younger sisters sought Mrs. 
Whitney for counsel and in no instance did
she fail, for she was always ready to listen
and to advise. In the Nauvoo Temple she
was the leading spirit and looked like unto
a priestess in very deed. She inspired con-
fidence in both men and women, a woman
of sublime faith in the gospel and in the
Prophet Joseph Smith, indeed she was rev-
erential in her nature and temperament.
	Sister Whitney was the peer of any wom-
an of her time; she has sometimes been
compared to Lucy Smith, the mother of
Joseph, the prophet, but though they were
both great, they were two distinctive types.
	Mrs. Whitney was born in the vicinity of
New Haven, Connecticut, Dec. 26, 1800.
Her name was Smith, and when a young
girl her parents consented to her leaving
home with a bachelor uncle and a maiden
aunt to go out to Ohio, then the far West.
They traveled in a wagon and settled in
Kirtland. The country was new and wild
but the young girl was trained by her Aunt
Sally in all the housewifely ways of that
period. However, the bachelor uncle and
maiden aunt, scrupulous as they were, could
not prevent her falling in love with the
young man who was looking around for a
seamstress to make fine linen shirts, ruffled
etc. It was really a love match, and the
young woman never returned to her home
in Connecticut.
	Her associates in the Church were wom-
en of great faith and intense devotion-
Emma Hale Smith, Clarissa Lyman Smith,
Vilate Kimball, Mary Ann Young, Phebe
C. Woodruff and Mary Ann Pratt, wife of
Parley P. Pratt, Lydia Dibble Granger and
Pamelia Lott, Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. Stephen
Markham, Lydia Partridge, Diantha Mor-
ley Billings, Mary Fielding Smith, Mercy
N. Thompson and many others. There
were also younger women friends, but
those mentioned were near her own age and
were all dear friends of Joseph.
	They are all gone now, and many others,
but their memories are imperishable. They
are of the members of the Church who with
their husbands helped to lay the foundation
of this latter-day work. Blessed forever be
their memories.
						E. B. W.


President Stubbs of the University of
Nevada, speaking on the theme, “Votes for
Women,” a few days ago, declared unequiv-
ocally in favor of giving women the ballot.
He paid a glowing tribute to the noble
women of history who accomplished great
things, and to those of today who are tak-
ing leadership along many lines of activity.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		WAYNE STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the Wayne stake of
Zion held its quarterly conference in the
tabernacle in Loa, July 13, 1912. The
morning session convened at 10 o’clock,
Stake President Bathsheba Grundy presid-
ing. On the stand were Sisters Julia P. M.
Farnsforth and Sarah M. McClelland of the
General Board, John R. Stewart and Mo-
roni Lazenby of the stake presidency, the
stake presidency of the Relief Society with
their board, and the local officers. After
the usual opening exercises President
Grundy said she was thankful for this or-
ganization, it is a great privilege to belong
to this society; said the stake officers had
visited each society in the stake; had re-
sponded to every call made of us. The ward
presidents each reported their society in
turn. Sister Farnsworth spoke on training
our children and looking after our geneal-
ogy and other topics very interestingly;
gave instructions on laying away the dead,
also on the duties of teachers. Sister Mc-
Clelland spoke on Temple work and in-
structed the Relief Societies to keep temple
robes on hand; spoke on having a library
and a Relief Society choir; gave good in-
structions in general. President Grundy in-
vited all present to stay to a banquet.
	Afteroon Session—Sister Julia Farns-
worth gave a lecture on home environment,
which was very interesting and listened to
with great attention. Song by Walter
Stewart, “I Know That My Redeemer
Lives.”
	Leah Blackburn bore a faithful testimony.
Sister Sarah McClelland read the instruc-
tions that were given to the first Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith; spoke
of the beautiful sentiments contained in
these instructions. Song by Orilla Harris
and Lota Brown “Our Mother.” Presidents
Stewart and Lazenby, also Councilor James
Hood gave the Relief Society sisters words
of praise and encouragement. President
Grundy made closing remarks The con-
ference was dismissed by Pauline Brown.
		EMERY STAKE.
	Minutes of Emery stake Relief Society
conference held at Cleveland July 21, 1912,
President Louisa Ovesen presiding. Sis-
ters Amy B. Lyman and Sarah McClelland
of the General Relief Society Board were
present. After the opening exercises re-
ports from the presidents of some of the
local societies were given. It showed them
to be in good running order and attending
to their duties; after which a quartet was
rendered by members of the Orangeville
society. President Louisa Ovesen reported
the work going on in the stake satisfac-
torily and the financial condition excellent;
felt encouraged in the work; welcomed the
visiting sisters of the General Board and
spoke briefly on temple clothing. Sister
Amy Lyman brought greetings from
the General Board and the love of
President Emmeline B. Wells; was pleased
with the attendance and with the re-
ports whic hhad been made; said the local
societies were the backbone of this grand
work and deserving of the best encourage-
ment; advised the young sisters to join the
Relief Societies, where the young and old
associate together, the best social conditions
exist; said the sisters should attend meeting

[Column 2]
because it is an absolute necessity for them
to be interested in something outside of
their homes, and the Relief Societies afford
splendid opportunity for such interest and
work; it inspires to greater effort, creates a
desire to study and improve the mind and
makes women better able to raise their chil-
dren properly; mothers should not do all
the work in the home but let the children
help and reciprocate her love and efforts;
advised the societies to collect libraries; was
pleased with the outline of study being fol-
lowed in this stake; also spoke on sanita-
tion. Song, Orangeville society. Sister Mc-
Clelland advised the sisters to apply them-
selves closely to study because we cannot be
saved in ignorance; said it was not right
for women to make Marthas of themselves,
but that rest was just as necessary as work;
asked the question, Do we work as dili-
gently for the Lord as we do for the
dollar? Instructed the societies to keep on
hand clothing for the dead; desired young
people to appreciate the privilege of being
married in the temple; spoke on sustaining
the EXPONENT and sending to it the confer-
ence news; the death of prominent women,
etc.; also spoke on storing wheat and on
sanitation. Meeting adjourned until 2
o’clock p. m. After singing by the choir,
benediction by President Lars Peter Ove-
sen.
	Afternoon Session, 2 o’clock—Bishop
Joseph Larson taking charge. Usual open-
ing exercises. After administering the sac-
rament the time was given to the sisters of
the Relief Society. The first speaker was
Stake Counselor Elizabeth A. Christensen,
who said for mothers to teach their children
the principles of the Gospel, to love the
Lord and to pray for divine guidance in
rearing their families. Solo from a mem-
ber of the Castle Dale society. Stake Coun-
selor Mary A. Sorensen spoke on the beauty
of giving freely; we must remember we are
only stewards of what the Lord has given
us and therefore should be willing to give
generously. Sister Amy B. Lyman of the
General Board was glad to see so many of
the brethren present; said Relief Society
work had two objects, first to do good and
help others, second to develop the women
who took part; showed that those taking
active part are the ones receiving the most
benefit and whose influence in behalf of our
people goes forth to the world; said one
reason why “Mormon” women are able to
accomplish so much public work is that
their husbands are willing to assist them;
gave a brief account of the National Council
of Women and mentioned the courtesy there
shown Utah women. Duet by members of
Huntington society. Sister McClelland of
the General Board complimented the Emery
stake Relief Societies on their contribution
to the China famine and Mississippi flood
sufferers; also related a visit she had made
to Nauvoo, and expressed a wish that all
the Saints could have the pleasure of visit-
ing that place; described the buildings, etc.,
of what was once the possessions of the
Saints, mentioned the beautiful site, rolling
hills, peaceful valleys, and the quiet pervad-
ing the place; also gave a feeling descrip-
tion of Carthage jail as it stands today;
spoke of her labors in the mission field; of
the faith and power enjoyed by the mis-
sionaries, and the desire and hunger of
some of the people to know the truth; en-
couraged the support of home manufacture

[Column 3]
and industries and instructed the teachers as
to their duties. Stake President Lars Peter
Ovesen said Relief Society work had be-
come a power; advised the sisters to profit
by the good counsel given. Encouraging re-
marks were made by Stake Counselor Alon-
zo E. Wall and Bishop Joseph J. Larsen.
Carrie O. Larsen said we had had a feast
and thanked the Lord that she was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society. After singing and
benediction the conference adjourned.


BOOK REVIEW.
	“The Awakening of the Desert,” by Julias
C. Birge of St. Louis, was one of the new
books on sale for the holiday season. The
book graphically tells the story of the won-
derful transformation of the American
Desert into the great West of today. The
author’s early experience in pioneer life, his
travels through the mountains, over the
plains and into the heart of the desert reads
like a romance and yet is such interesting
history that one is prone to lay down the
book before the end is reached. The de-
scription of an expedition merely for ad-
venture and exploration with sufficient
means for all emergencies not harassed with
the inconveniences and sorrows that emi-
grants into a new country usually have,
makes delightful reading, especially sprin-
kled as it is with such humorous situations
most pleasantly told. The book is splendidly
gotten up and its pages are interlaced with
beautiful illusrations showing the wild ani-
mals and and verdure of the mountains
and plains.
	There is an unusual amount of fairness,
too, i nthe historical part of the “Awaken-
ing of the Deseret,” but me thinks Mr.
Birge diverges from the thread of his story
somewhat, to go into the detail of family
life among the “Mormons.” There are dif-
ferent points of view on these questions and
no matter what one may think, even in
seeming to be fair, there always is the mark
of prejudice and evidently a desire to pose
as an apostle of reform to the “Mormon”
people. Brigham Young lived his day. He
was the great pioneer into this desert land.
The Moses of the latter days. Whether the
world accepts him as one of its greatest men
or not, his work stands an eternal monument
to his memory, and the ages will still show
in future development the results of his
master mind.
	The beautiful descriptive pages of the
book are most interesting, the incidents
most entertaining and the humor most de-
lightful.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


E. Homer, one of Utah’s four Presiden-
tial electors, is said to have announced that
he will cast his vote in the Electoral Col-
lege for Mrs. Margaret Zane Witcher of
Salt Lake City for Vice-President on the
Republican ticket. He will also endeavor
to persuade the other three electors of the
State to do the same. Mrs. Witcher is serv-
ing her second term as county clerk of Salt
Lake County. She is a daughter of C. S.
Zane, former Chief Justice of Utah—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THEN AND NOW.
Why will the world forever backward look,
The present never heed nor understand,
When sight makes plain as ’twere an open
		book,
	With evidence complete on every hand?
Thus through the times when God to Israel
		spoke,
	By prophet’s voice declared that which
		would be,
They heeding not; commandments ever broke,
	E’en when the prophet they could hear and
		see.
When Jesus came His own rejected Him,
	Though prophecy His coming plainly proved.
They scorned God’s word, to them the meaning
		dim—
	Outreaching for the truth the Spirit moved.
But they were unbelievers on His name;
	They spat upon Him, hung Him to the tree;
It seems, to them His teachings were in vain.
	For they determined that His death should
		be.
“Forgive them, for they know not what they
		do—”
	Unmoved their hearts e’en when these last
		words fell,
That prove His calling and His mission true,
	And His Messiahship attest as well.
No fear falls on them when He is no more-
	“His blood be on us and our children, too-”
They trembled not at sight of human gore,
	Unpenitent, for mercy did not sue.
Death lost its power, the grave Him yielded
		up.
	Again He met His friends, as He had said,
Drained to the dregs that awful, bitter cup.
	Triumphant He was risen from the dead.
Of hundreds He was seen alive again,
	That witnesses of Him they e’er might be.
Then from Mount Olives in the sight of men,
	Ascended where His followers could not see.
As Time rolls on a change is wrought ’mong
		men,
	The teachings of the risen Nazarene
Spread o’er the earth, the all known world
		’twas then.
	Believers multiplied who ne’er had seen,
And His apostles journeyed two and two,
	The Gospel tidings carrying far and wide
Bear testimony that these things are true,
	That for mankind our Lord, the Christ, had
		died.
’Twas then the dove of Truth outspread her
		wings,
	Of His nativity a record bore-
A backward testimony ever brings
	Remembrance of the truths that went before,
So gentle Faith brought love to ev’ry heart.
	The bond of love that links Christ’s followers
		still-
In His redemption each receives a part
	And waits for Him, His promise to fulfill.
Now nearly all rejoice that Christ was born,
	That o’er Judea’s plains that start stood still,
And angels sweetly sang that Christmas
		morn,
	The song of peace to all men of good will.
Let Christmas cheer o’erflow from heart to
		heart,
	For joyous thoughts Christ’s mem’ry ever
		brings-
Oh, let us in this anthem sing a part,
	“All hail the Christ, our Lord, the King of
		Kings.”
						Lydia D. Alder.


FAREWELL.
Life, with its light and shade, its storm and
		calm,
	Its well-fought battles, all for her is o’er,
For weary waiting there has come the balm,
	And sickness, sorrow, sighing, are no more.
The shadowy river has been safely crossed,
	Her feet have touched the wondrous, golden
		shore,
Her hands have clasped again her loved and
	lost, 
And with them she is safe within the door.
How, nobly, bravely, well, her work was done,
	Her lengthened days but added yet the more


To the unblemished record she had won,
	Rounding, completing every page it bore.
What need to mourn when one so full of
		years
	And goodly deeds lays off this mortal clay,
Comes up through tribulation, in white robes,
	To reign a queen throughout an endless day.
Instead of grief and tears, ’twere nobler we
	Pledge service to the cause she loved so well,
As monument to her blessed memory,
	And so, dear sister, friend, we say farewell.
						Nellie Becraft.
	Nov. 20, 1912.


IN MEMORIAM.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
To the Memory of our Esteemed and Re-
	vered Friend, Sister Jane S. Richards,
	by the Officers and Members of the Relief
	Society of the Ogden Stake of Zion.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father, in His
infinite wisdom, has called from our midst
our venerable and beloved sister, who for
many years was the leader and the inspira-
tion of the Relief Society of the Weber
Stake, of which we were at that time a
part, and—
	Recognizing, that a great and noble
woman has passed to the beyond, that some-
thing precious has been removed to a
brighter world, that her name was a syn-
onym for all that was most worthy, and
	Knowing of her uncounted services in
the cause of the betterment of humanity,
to which were devoted the best years of
her life, we realize that there has gone to
her reward one whose career was ever on-
ward and upward, and whose name will
forever be linked with the history of the
Relief Society.
	Resolved, therefore, that in her death the
Relief Society has lost a heroine and we of
this community have lost a friend—
	Resolved, that the wisdom, charity, and
all the virtues that abounded in her beauti-
ful life be held in grateful remembrance and
that we seek to emulate the same—
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved
family, and especially to the devoted daugh-
ter and sons, our heartfelt sympathy. May
the comforting influence of the Holy Spirit
temper their grief and may the priceless
heritage bequeathed them be to them, in
their hour of trial, the star of hope that
will shine brighter and brighter as they
tread the path of life.
	Resolved, that a copyof these resolutions
be sent to the family, that a copy be sent
to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication
and that they appear on the records of our
association.
			SARAH M. TAYLOR,
			President of Relief Society
					of the Ogden Stake.
			ISABEL FOULGER,
						First Counselor,
			NELLIE BECRAFT,
							Secretary.
Committee.
	A TRIBUTE AND RESOLUTIONS.
	Expressions of love and respect of the
Granite Stake Relief Society to the memory
of Sister Annie M. Hemenway:
	In His infinite wisdom and love, it has
pleased our Father in heaven to call from
our midst our beloved sister and co-laborer,
Annie M. Hemenway.

[Column 2]
	She was a wise woman of unquestioned
integrity, of meekness and humility, of
mildness of word and speech, of gentleness
of character.
	The spirit and power and influence of her
life was to bring peace, and happiness, and
good will into the lives of others. She lived
to serve and aid, to cheer and love, always
putting forth undaunted energy to bless and
comfort the poor, the sick and afflicted.
	The memory of her beautiful life will ever
be a source of inspiration and encourage-
ment to us.
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a
faithful worker, a devoted mother and wife,
a true Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt
sympathy to her husband and children, and
pray God that His comforting influence may
be with them in their hour of bereavement.
	Resolved, That we place a copy of this
memento on our stake record, that a copy be
sent to the family of the deceased, and
one be sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
		LEONORA T. HARRINGTON,
		LAURA E. CUTLER,
		EMILY M. BRINTON,
					Stake Presidency.
		PRUDENCE BROWN,
						Stake Secretary.


MRS. FRAZER’S BOOK.
	Mrs. Fraser, sister of F. Marion Craw-
ford, has recently published a new book en-
titled “Reminiscences of a Diplomatist’s
Wife,” in which there are many references
and memories of her talented brother. One
of Mrs. Fraser’s interesting memories of
many printed in “The Bookman,” is a day
spent at Pompeii with her brother when he
was full of his book “Zoroaster.” It was a
day all blue and white, of the thousand clear
and tender shades, that the verticle mid-day
sun of the south draws from marble and
sky and sea, and they were reconstructing
the Pompeii of two thousand years ago with
the fine Roman ladies and their lords and
cavaliers and troops of clever slaves, the
dancers and singers, the busy shop keepers
and the smart garrison and the brown fisher
folk, when Marion began to read the “Chant
of the Priests” which he had just written
for the opening chapter of “Zoroaster.” He
was always a wonderful reader, with his
full voice, his restrained and sonorous bal-
ancing of phrase. But that day some strong
compelling chord had been touched and
Mrs. Fraser recalls that after the first few
words his hearers were in Italy no longer,
but in the heart of the older world, the gor-
geous, gold-clothed, sun-worshipping near-
East.”
	The memories of Crawford recall to mind
his visit to Salt Lake City and how he was
entertained at the Bee Hive House, then the
residence of Spencer Clawson, by the Utah
Woman’s Press Club. He gave a most de-
lightful lecture in the city which, like many
other of our splendid opportunities, was only
slightly appreciated and now that this great
novelist is no more we realize our neglect.
But in the perusal of Mrs. Fraser’s book
there are many glimpses of his greatness
which those who met him will read with
pleasure.
	
						A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

Statement of the Ownership, Management, Etc.,
	of WOMAN’S EXPONENT, published
	monthly at Salt Lake City, Utah, required by
	the Act of August 24, 1912:
	NAME OF		POST OFFICE ADDRESS
Editor, Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah
Managing Editor...........................................
	....Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah
Business Manager.........................................
	....Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah
Publisher........................................................
	....Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah
Owner, Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake City, Utah
	(No bondholders, mortgagees or other security
holders.)
[Signed]					EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	Sworn to and subscribed before me this 23d day
of October, 1912.
[Seal]					JOHN M. CANNON,
								Notary Public.
	My commission expires Apr. 26, 1913.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	DECEMBER, 1912


PEACE AND GOOD WILL.
	To those older grown, Christmas means,
in sober reality, peace and good will and
the uniting together of family ties and
those of kindred and dear friends, in the
bonds of good fellowship, and partaking of
each other’s hospitability.
	This really engenders the love of Christ
and as it were, casts a halo of love and ten-
derness over and around those whose
hearts are already touched with the love of
all humanity, the spirit of the divine Master,
possibly in a lesser degree.
	Nowadays Christmas seems to have de-
veloped into a giving of gifts almost indis-
criminately and in this respect seems per-
haps to many a time to be dreaded instead
of welcomed. People sometimes give that
which they cannot afford and which they
have not the courage to refrain from giving.
It is the spirit of keeping up with one’s
friends and relatives who possibly are able
because of circumstances to give liberally.
	It is a false idea to wish to do as others
do, much better is it to refrain and not fol-
low the trend of popularity but maintain
one’s own dignity, even at the risk of being
misunderstood.
	To offer assistance with that tact and
generosity that would make the recipient
feel it an honor to accept instead of being
wounded is always commendable.
	Let not Christmas day pass without in
some way being significant of the charity
that never faileth, the bestowal of that
which will give joy to some human heart.
	Family gatherings have become almost es-


sential to Christmas enjoyment, and the
more primitive ones in most instances are
the most enjoyable.  We are all inclined to
think Christmas is only for the children,
but after all is it not a day to refresh one’s
memory with fond and loving thoughts of
those not present or who have gone before?
	Perhaps the most happy gatherings at
the Christmas time are when the members
of a family, married and single, assemble at
the old home and gather around the festive
board and recount old times when they were
young. Family reunions bring out the finest
emotions of the human heart, and the pearls
of love and affection that lie deepest are
brought forth and given place where they
will shine brightest and linger longest, en-
during while life remains to be treasured in
years to come when those who brought
forth these gems shall have passed into eter-
nity.


[Column 1]
	SUGGESTIVE THOUGHTS.
	We congratulate our readers and the Re-
lief Society sisters everywhere on what has
been accomplished by the organization dur-
ing the year now just being completed.
	The year has been replete with interesting
developments in an extension of work along
new lines and the tendency to spiritual
growth will be apparent in the near future
in this great work.
	The methods used to secure means for
charitable purposes for which the society
was organized is one of the problems that
has to be dealt with in a practical way.
	There is also an, educational side—the
study for the improvement of the mind and
heart, and the necessity of knowledge of
what is taking place from day to day and
the progress made along what is termed the
woman’s field of activity.
	The subjects discussed in clubs, social and
literary, might be introduced in their proper
place in the Relief Society. Already much
has been done in this direction through lec-
tures and by other means connected with
the mothers’ work, but more can yet be
given if care is taken to keep a balance of
spiritual growth in the ascendancy.
	Faith in the gospel and in the principles
thereof must be at the root of all progress,
if we are to succeed in securing the salva-
tion of those most near and dear to us,
which is the ultimate desire and object of
all Latter-day Saints. That we cannot be
saved in ignorance is an established fact,
therefore we must strive to educate our-
selves along all lines.
	We cannot too highly appreciate the ad-
vantages we have in and through the Relief
Society. It is the best and most complete
system of organized charity that has ever
been known, extending into all civilized
countries where the gospel has been
preached and converts made, and giving to
women the opportunity to dispense char-
ity, in wisdom, to all those in need of ma-
terial help; and the still higher privilege to
minister in a spiritual way to those who are
seeking the bread of life, also the sorrow-
ing and the despondent who are in darkness
and who appreciate a helping hand, for the
sisters, generally speaking, are full of ten-
derness and sympathy and, endeared to each
other in the bonds of loving fellowship, are
able to draw near to the standard of excel-
lence set by the Savior who had the love

[Column 2]
that surpassed all other love, that which
made him willing to. lay down his own life
that mankind might be permitted to enter
into the presence of the Father and partake
of the blessings pertaining to life everlast-
ing.
	If we who profess to follow in the foot-
steps of the Savior could keep in mind his
precepts, how much better the world around
us might be made! At the close of the year
many of us make resolves to do better in
the days to come and often fail to carry
them out because of the hurry and bustle of
the work-a-day world, the mind being too
much occupied with trying to keep up with
those around us in worldly things, and we
forget the higher and more far-reaching
matter that pertains to the better side of our
life. These things should not be neglected,
for they tend to enrich our own souls and
make better also the lives of those around
us, whom we love and whose well-being is
more dear than our own.
	After all, it is the firm belief of the writer
that the world is growing better, that man-
kind is attaining a higher standard of mor-
ality and that a greater number of people
are seeking after truth and striving to keep
more fully the higher law, “To do unto
others as we would have others do unto us.”
There has never been a time in the world’s
history when the love of human kind was
so manifest in words and deeds as the pres-
ent. Intelligence has become more wide-
spread and the springs of joy and happiness
that flow from its fountains are reaching
out to all who will receive its benefits.
	There need be no fear of a backward
tendency now; the world is too far ad-
vanced, and the generation of younger peo-
ple who are now coming forward with minds
alert and with new energies will keep up
with tlie rapid advancement in the race for
progress. In view of all this, the writer
urges the sisters in all the Relief Societies to
cultivate faith and never neglect to pray
with faith. As a help in this direction we
would recommend the Lectures upon Faith
in the book of Doctrine and Covenants. If
we had the faith that the sick could be
healed, what a precious blessing it would
be, and faith like this we should instil into
the souls of all who will listen to the teach-
ings on this subject. We must, as older
people, embody faith in all our teachings to
the youth of Zion that it may become a part
of their daily lives. “Faith is the substance
of things hoped for, the evidence of things
not seen.” Tennyson says, in his celebrated
poem, “In Memoriam:”
“Strong Son of God, Immortal Love,
Whom we, that have not seen. Thy face,
By faith, and faith alone, embrace,
Believing when we cannot prove.”


EMMA LUCY GATES AND ROMANIA
			HYDE.
	It is often remarked that Utah’s sons and
daugthers who have ventured out along
lines of art and education in the world, have
pretty generally succeeded. In eastern col-
leges they rank among the highest for ex-
cellence and the most gratifying thing is
their splendid standard for good character.
Their moral training at home and the im-
planting from their youth the highest ideals,
together with the splendid religious teach-
ings received, fortify the children of the


Latter-day Saints in such a way as to render
them equal to withstand temptation, resist
evil and pursue an even and industrious
course in their line of work. Among those
who have certainly proven all these things
is our glorious songstress, Emma Lucy
Gates, who, notwithstanding the applause
and flattery of the public, returns occasion-
ally to her old home and people the same
sweet, guileless girl, without vanity, without
conceit, a tireless worker in her art, giving
of her talents and accomplishments for the
joy and delight of her friends. Miss Gates’
home-coming this last time was followed by
a long, severe illness which, of course, was
a cause of alarm to her friends and family
and deprived her of the great enjoyment
she had anticipated in her home-coming.
Now, however, she has entirely recovered
and after giving three concerts in her native
state will once more resume her work
abroad. It is with great satisfaction her
friends note that her beautiful voice has not
been impaired through her long illness. May
she meet with more and greater success than
ever in her chosen field of work, realizing
pleasure while giving pleasure to others.

	A friend remarked the other day, “I don’t
know which I enjoy most, listening to the
playing of Romania Hyde or looking at
her, she is such a beautiful picture,” and
another one said, “There’s one little girl I
think every one ought to help in her venture
to go abroad to study, for she has certainly
proven herself the most willing, accommo-
dating little artist I know.” Such remarks
as these show something of the way Miss
Romania has unconsciously won the hearts
and admiration of the public, for the framers
of the quoted sentences are not personally
acquainted with her.
	Miss Hyde expects to leave the first of the
year, in company with Miss Gates, for Eu-
rope where she will continue to pursue her
musical studies. She has already proven her-
self an artist and her friends expect that
when next they hear her beautiful playing
of the violin, she will be a recognized
virtuoso.
	That both these gifted girls will have
every desired success and realize their most
ardent expectations is the wish and prayer
of all their numerous friends.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN OLD-FASHIONED PARTY.
	On one of the cold, frosty nights in De-
cember the sumptuous home of Mrs. A. W.
McCune was the scene of a most delightful
old time party. While without the air was
brisk and cold, within everything was bright
and merry, as old friends met in pleasant
greeting. The message from the hostess,
“Come in old-fashioned dress,” was readily
responded to, and the result was a scene
of different eras, as passing from room to
room, one greeted first a colonial dame with
powdered hair and flowered silks, then per-
haps a southern belle with filmy flounces and
jewels rare, and turning noted a bride of
some forty years in a gown of ivory satin
—such a mixture of old lace and lavender
bringing back the scent of roses from some
old fashioned garden or the strains of a
waltz from the long ago.
	The most charming figure in all this
quaint array was the hostess herself, as she
greeted the incoming guests and so solicit-
ously looked after their entertainment. She
wore a handsome gown of chantilly lace,


flounced over crinoline, a costume seen per-
haps in some old lady’s magazine, but almost
beyond the memory of this generation, with
jewels and laces of the same period. The
guests enjoyed to the extreme the inter-
change of memories and laughed heartily at
the sight of the queer bonnets and hats. The
ball-room presented a quaint and interesting
picture and many advanced in years seemed
young again while engaging in the minuet
and quadrille of their youth. To give such
pleasure to one’s friends is a delight in itself
and this old-fashioned party is another beau-
tiful page in memory’s book for both hostess
and guest.


ONE CHRISTMAS EVE.
	An old brown farm house standing upon
a hilly slope, near a hemlock grove where
one of those low murmuring pebbly brooks
rippled along, its undertone harmoniziong
perfectly with the sighing and shivering of
the great pines in the background of the
pretty picture. Look, there is a crowd of
children coming in from a ramble laden
with evergreens, hemlock boughs, trailing
vines and bright red winter berries. How
merry they are, chatting gaily, and their
laughter ringing out in the clear, frosty air.
	A light snow is falling, which makes the
scene even more attractive. What a pic-
ture for an artist these little folks would
make! The long vines they have pulled
from under the thick carpet of fallen leaves,
that had covered and kept them fresh until
the winter holidays, when there are no flow-
ers in the gardens outside, are wound
around them, giving them the appearance
of wood-nymphs.
	These village children are familiar with
woods and fields, and happy in their simple
country life; they have no idea whatever, of
city ways and extravagant tastes, they have
not even had a glimpse of the great busy
world outside, its gaiety or wretchedness.
	It is the day before Christmas, and with-


[Column 1]
in the homely dwelling great preparations
are being made for coming festivities. The
children left to their own fancies had wan-
dered away in the pine woods, and re-
turned home carrying in their arms and
about them the boughs and vines and ber-
ries; and soon they are busy hanging them
around the walls of the long, low, living
room where the meals are always served
and the family gathered in the winter
weather. There, on a winter evening,
many interesting stories and anecdotes were
told and old-fashioned songs sung, and in
the great wide fire place the pine knots
blazed high and the reflection on the dark
oaken paneled walls made many a fanciful
light and shadow, so weird and strange that
they were ever afterward remembered by
the little ones reared in that  happy home.
On that particular Christmas eve, the ever-
greens were festooned and garlanded so
heavily and the dark green hung with
shining red berries, so that hte dim shad-
owy light when it danced fitfully over and
around made a strange contrast in its weird-
ness to the bright-eyed, rosy-cheeked, merry
children who fluttered hither and thither
singing and laughing, admiring the decora-
tions and calling the attention of the older
ones to the quaint and pretty designs.
	So rustic seemed this country home with
its simple but tasteful ornamentation that
one might almost imagine it a woodland
scene, and the smell of the fragrant hem-
lock and pine was like a perfume from the
forest itself.
	How different was this home of nearly
half a century ago, plain and primitive in
all its appointments, to even the village
homes of today.
	There was no chandelier hanging in the
great wide bare hall, only plain wooden
pegs for the hats and coats, and it had no
carpet, but a painted floor with gay-colored,
warm, home-made woolen mats, the only
really attractive feature, except the reflec-
tor that hung on the wall, and was only
lighted on special occasions.
	The house was unusually gay this Christ-
mas eve, though these Puritanical New
England folks didn’t make so much ado
about Christmas then as they do now; stil
it was customary to have a holiday week be-
fore New Year’s, and visits were inter-
changed among relatives and friends, and
elaborate dinners were indulged in. There
was much feasting and merry-making and
many queer old games for pastime besides.
Who shall say that those were not “the
good old times,” of which we sing and talk
and moralize so much? I may have been
too prosy in describing this country dwell-
ing, etc., and perhaps ’twould please the
present generation better to plunge into the
story without preamble, but all this is so
vivid to the writer, and it will do our boys
and girls no harm to know how their moth-
ers and grandmothers lived many years ago.
As I sit before the blazing fire late on a
winter’s night, I can call up many striking
pictures and incidents and remember well
the people that figured in the dramas that
actually transpired, out of which the threads
of many stories might be woven, and I per-
haps indulge too much in reverie and sim-
plify beforehand what ought to be brought
out in the narrative itself.
	This Christmas eve was the last one that
the large family assembled there on that
occasion, not one missing, ever spent within
those time-honored walls; for ere another

[Column 2]
year had flow the group was broken, and
one, “only a girl,” had gone far away and
everything seemed to change from that time,
one went here and another there, and by
and by the cruel war of the rebellion came
and sad tragedies followed; but we forbear
to name these things now and come back to
the Christmas even and for this once we’ll
watch these festive merry makers.
	It was a numerous family and the older
married ones who lived at a distance came
one after another during the day before
Christmas each with their little ones; there
were three daughters married whose hus-
bands came with them and one son with his
wife, and another unmarried son whose
employment took him away from his native
village. Late in the afternoon all had ar-
rived, and the old home resounded with
heartfelt rejoicing. All these were to dine
at the old homestead and spend a day or
two or more after at the dear place they
loved so well, and late that night when
the very little ones were sleeping, the
younger children lingered to hear thei
older brothers and sisters talk over the days
when they were at home, and try to recall
incidents and circumstances and repeat over
old stories, each one in turn filling in a
part that another had forgotten. After the
story telling, songs were sung and every one
was required to add something to the eve-
ning’s amusement. The stories and songs
were mostly of a legendary character, and
later on a sort of dullness fell upon the
party that none of them were willing to
acknowledge, yet all felt more or less, and
attributed it in a measure to the nature of
the pastime with which they had passed the
hours away.
	Finally, after a lull in the conversation,
and the fire was beginning to burn low, one
of the company suggested it was almost
twelve o’clock and soon they could wish
each other “a merry Christmas,” and retire,
for it seemed to be silently conceded that all
were tired; and just when a sort of quiet
reigned, another broke in upon the spell that
was apparent with, “I wonder what will
happen before another Christmas eve,” and
quick as answers often come without
thought, two or three voices at once burst
forth with the exclamation, “Edward will
be married, and we shall have another sister
added to our number instead of missing
one.” But no one of all assembled there
thought that ere another year had flown,
the half-grown girl who sat there that
night so pale and thoughtful, like one in a
dream, would be gone forever from their
midst into a new and very different life.
	As is often the case after very lively and
rather gay enjoyments a sort of solemnity
fell upon the party, and the merry Christ-
mas, as it resounded through the rooms
seemed to leave a hollow echo in the apart-
ments, that was more like a farewell than
the tone of glad greeting such as it was
meant to be.
	The wind was howling outside now,
though the day had been rather a placid one
with only a light fall of snow at intervals.
The evening had passed quickly and there
had been so much sparkle and brilliancy in-
side that the sounds without had not dis-
turbed them in the least, but when quiet set-
tled down and the family separated for the
night, the elements seemed in great commo-
tion; the wind was fairly shrieking and the
great elm trees in the yard swayed to and
fro and crackled, and the sighs and moans

[Column 3]
of the pine woods in the distance were pite-
ous to listen to. To one full of sentiment
these melancholy dirges, especially on a win-
try night, have something inexpressibly ten-
der and significant in them, and the voices
in the wind are full of the sweetest pathos,
yet appealing to the strongest emotions, that
give expression to the human soul in its
deepest distress; yea, even in the agony
that is beyond expression. They seem to
cry out for the suffering ones and to moan
piteously in the night time while the glad
world of humanity is wrapped in sleep. This
night was a dismal one, and the young peo-
ple grew nervous from the sadness that
brooded over their Christmas greetings. It
was as though a presentiment came that
something was about to happen; even
though all was peace and quietness within
and no knowledge of any evil shadow lurk-
ing about or around had caused this melan-
choly foreboding.
	Life was rich with promise to all the
household, and especially so to the little
maiden who was just bursting into woman-
hood; her amiable manner and cheerful dis-
position were the very life of the old home,
nothing could be brighter or more hopeful
than the future prospects of this young girl.
The world to her was so full of beauty and
sweetness and she had been a favorite with
all the household.
	It sometimes happens that the child bursts
suddenly as by revelation into a knowledge
of the forces that have lain dormant in the
mind through all the tenderer years, while
in others perhaps it only dawns upon them
through slow processes of reasoning or bit-
ter experiences.
	But we were talking of Christmas festivi-
ties, and though the wind howls and the
woods take up the echo, the great logs burn
brightly and happy faces light up the Christ-
mas morn. Snow had fallen very deep and
when the hall door was opened the great
bank of light snow fell in upon the floor to
the delight of the children who were not
permitted to go out in such weather. Th
morning sun shining in dispelled the gloom
of the previous night, and in the exercises
of prayer and reading of passages from the
Bible, which was customary in this house,
the melancholy died away and the breakfast
was partaken of in the most cheerful mood
by all.
	During the day, while visiting with each
other, the daughters roamed through the
house from garret to cellar, commenting up-
on the old styles and suggesting modern im-
provements. The mother objected to new-
fangled notions and affirmed that the old
home was dearer to her from association
than any other could ever be, however ele-
gantly fitted up, or modernized
	“I am loth to leave this dear old place
where I have been so many years a happy
wife and mother, or to part with any portion
of my household furniture, for all your de-
rision, and making fun of my antiquated no-
tions. Furniture is not made of such rich
wood nowadays, much of it is sham, and on
a par with the rude brusque manners of
some of our young people.” “But, girls,”
said the mother, continuing, “you may each
of you select a piece of furniture today to
take with you to your own home, and re-
member whatever happens you must not
part with it, let it be as a memento of your
childhood home and of this Christmas visit.
And so they did, and long after, when
many of those who ate their Christmas din-


[Column 1]
ner together on that day had gone to “that
better land” those who remained were re-
minded of the time they had spent together
with the darling mother, and of the sweet
and gentle words she had spoken.
	But we must not forget the dinner, which
was a most elaborate affair, and served in
the room decorated by the children with
only natural evergreens and red berries, but
so dark and curiously woven together that
it was weird enough for a gypsy’s camp.
Christmas-trees were unknown in that prim-
tive place in those days, and the gifts that
were bestowed were generally those of love
and good-will.
	But the dinner was delicious, and about
forty persons, including children, sat down
together around that festive board. Turkey
with savory dressing, young pigs, roasted
whole, puddings, pies, cakes and preserves
with a variety of condiments and side
dishes. No wine or sweet cider even were
ever served to the guests in that house, the
mistress strongly objected. “My boys,” she
always said, “shall never be tempted at
home to partake of strong drink.” But rosy-
cheeked apples piled high in elegant glass
and china dishes, made the table quite orna-
mental; oranges too from Florida added to
the beauty of the sumptuous feast, and
tempted the already sharpened appetites of
the children.
	Long they lingered at table, this happy
family, on that day which seemed forever
after to mark an era in their lives; one joke
after another was told and some of them
had a very practical application, but all was
in good nature and jollity, and the daylight
faded into eventide ere the company had
realized its approach.
	The lamps were lighted, the tables cleared
and put back, the shining hearth clean
swept, a fresh supply of cragged pine-knots
piled high in the great open fire-place, upon
the heavy dog-irons; and the pastimes of
the evening commenced. Each one was to
do something, tell a story, sing a song, re-
late an anecdote, or give some pleasing reci-
tation; the programme was an impromptu
one, yet mostly they agreed, no one differ-
ing with another as to how or why they
should render due regard to the appoint-
ment.
	The hours sped as on the wings of the
wind, and ere the half was told the midnight
bell pealed out in the frosty air. Mrs. Cur-
tis never encouraged sitting up after mid-
night, not even for company. One by one,
the visitors and the family departed to their
rooms with a formal goodnight, except the
unmarried son, who had won something of
a reputation as a practical business man,
and who, during his occasional visits to the
home of his childhood, always took the op-
portunity to advise with his mother on his
own account, as well as hers. So far since
his arrival there had really been no good
chance of their speaking apart, and he had
begun to feel very uncomfortable. This eve-
ning he felt determined to detain his mother
after the rest had retired; there was still a
blazing fire, and it seemed to invite the con-
fidence of those whose hearts need warmth
and sympathy. Bachelors ever do, and Ed-
ward had never been married, and his life
was a sort of Bohemian kind, that pleased
him well, but that his exemplary mother
thought was simply dreadful.
	He had been a great favorite with his
mother always, such a serious, steady boy,
and now such a finely proportioned, brown-

[Column 2]
bearded, handsome young man with great
blue eyes that seemed to speak volumes in
a glance. The village girls made no secret
of their admiration for him, and wherever
he went he attracted the attention of those
about him, and influenced them much as he
wished when he chose to exert his powers.
He was a man of strong emotions and de-
votedly attached to his mother, and her in-
terests. In many respects the mother and
son were very similar. They had been ac-
customed to confer together on financial
family matters, and Mrs. Curtis had always
found Edward a safe adviser. He was fond
of home in his own way, and very fond of
his aristocratic looking mother, as well as of
her excellent economy and management of
the homestead with its fine, broad acres of
meadow-land, pastures, hillsides and woods.
	“My mother,” he had often said to gen-
tlemen friends, “can manage an estate as
well as most men; her executive ability is
quite equal to that of any man in our coun-
try, and I am sure she would make a good
judge: she has that sort of judicial manner
of weighing things and giving her opinion
when she has looked on all sides.”
	In fact, Edward Curtis had said, on one
or two occasions, if he could find a young
woman with such a well-balanced head as
his mother had he would ask her to be his
wife. On this Christmas night, when mother
and son were left alone for a few moments,
at first a sort of restraint seemed to hinder
the freedom felt in times past. Edward felt
he must break the spell, and looking up
with his great, fathomless blue eyes, in-
quiringly said, “What about the homestead,
mother, if you are determined to go West?
I was in hopes it was not true, but on com-
ing to the village I find it is quite under-
stood by the neighbors. We’ve been so
happy here these many years, and it’s such
a delightful place, might be made a charm-
ing summer resort, everything to make it
attractive in that way, if we chose to do it.
There is not a more picturesque spot in all
this part of New England, and it abounds
in sequestered vales and nooks among the
hills. Oh, I can’t think of its being sold to
strangers: I like the English idea of ances-
tral inheritance.”
	The tender-hearted mother heard him
through, and with characteristic firmness re-
plied: “Edward, I have thought all this over
and made up my mind that if you would,
you could keep the old home from going
into the hands of strangers?”
	“Why, mother, what do vou mean?”
	“I mean simply this: Marry, and settle
down here—not one of your city belles.
They might only fancy the place, beautiful
as its surroundings are, for a summer sea-
son, but one of our own villagers, and after
awhile you may see things as I do, and join
us in the West. Then you would be more
reconciled to the parting.”
	“Well, mother, I’ll think about buying the
place, but as for the village girls, they are
all pure-minded and innocent doubtless, and
that should be an inducement, but I shall
not marry yet awhile. I’d like this strong
attachment for the home and its belongings
to wear off a little before we part with it, if
it ever will: every foot of the land is en-
deared to me by some memory or other: the
old well-sweep, I love to hear it creak as in
my schoolboy days when the wind blew
from the hemlock grove yonder, though it’s
not a think of beauty by any means. I have
made a sketch of it, which I intend to keep

[Column 3]
for the sake of old remembrances; there
will never be any water that will seem so
sweet and pure in all the years to come, I
fear, as I have drunk from that old well,
with its undignified sweep, that we can see
such a distance away. The new fangled
pumps don’t compare with it in my opinion,
still, in new houses I prefer them, but in this
place I like things just as they are.”
	“I am glad, Edward, that you have such
a reverence for the home of your childhood,
and I hope you may be able to take it and
secure to me sufficient ready money for my
rights in the estate, so that I can go to the
West, and take the younger chlidren, and
yet it grieves me very much that I must part
not only with old-time friends, endeared to
me by tender ties of affection, but that more
than half my children must be left behind:
I know, however, that in this matter I am
right, and my views upon the subject can-
not be changed.”
	The arrangement of leaving the home-
stead in Edward’s hands to be disposed of
afterwards was partially decided upon, and
mother and son sat talking of this and
other things into the wee sma’ hours of
morning, the rain beating against the win-
dow panes, the fierce wind howling and
shrieking without, the old well-sweep creak-
ing, while in the lull, at intervals, the pine
woods sighed in a minor key like a re-
quiem, as it were, for the parting of that
happy family from each other and the home
of their childhood.
	They had spent the Christmas time to-
gether without any particular event of im-
portance transpiring, some gloomy presenti-
ments that might be caused by the knowl-
edge that the home was to be sold and the
household broken up. that was all. Tomor-
row some of them must return to their own
homes, and that alone produced a sort of
sadness, such as we have all of us felt, per-
haps, after some specially happy occasion,
when the reaction comes, as it is almost
always sure to do.
	No sorrow, not the lightest, had ever fal-
len noon Deborah Curtis, yet she had been
pensive and thoughtful during the Christ-
mas festivities; to her. perhaps more than
to any one else, the cloud that hung over
the gathering had seemed dark and threat-
ening.
	That dismal Christmas night when the
wind was shrieking as if in mortal agony,
and as she thought all the household were
fast asleep, she lay tossing and moaning on
her downy pillows, sobbing out every now
and then, “If he comes tomorrow, what
shall I do? But I am not to blame: I did
not say he might come here. Besides, what
will Fred say? He has alwavs been my
champion, my playmate ever since we went
to school together, and I have been so proud
of him, too, and the other girls so jealous,
and now Frank is coming, and declares in
that last letter that he will take no refusal.”
	“Let me see.” and climbing out of bed
she lit her candle, opened her drawer, and
between her tears and sobs, began to read
this terrible letter that was causing such a
commotion in her feelings.
	“Yes, here it is.” and she read: “I am
coming the day after Christmas when all
your big brothers and sisters are there, even
Edward, whom you think will frighten me
out of asking for you and I shall storm the
old castle for my lady-bird, and for aught I
know ‘waft her away on the wings of the
wind.” If I should meet with any resistance


[Column 1]
from these stalwart brothers—I give you
timely warning, and I trust there will be no
fainting or hysterics among the women
folks.”
	“Wicked boy,” Deborah muttered to her-
self, as, shivering with cold and excitement,
she folded and replaced the letter and hur-
ried back to bed. Poor child, she fell asleep
 and dreamed that Frank Lockwood came
with a carriage to take her away and that
Fred Howard snatched her up in his arms,
and would not let go his hold, and then she
woke. The dream was so real that she could
scarcely believe she was in bed in her own
room and the storm still beating against the
window as when she fell asleep.”
	St. Stephen’s day, the 26th of December,
a dismal morning, no getting out in such a
storm, and Deborah was somewhat calmed
when she saw how unpropitious the weather
was for traveling. She tried to summon
courage to speak to her mother, but it was
impossible, her manner seemed so forbid-
ding. The truth was, Mrs. Curtis was so
absorbed in what had transpired between
Edward and herself the night before that
she was oblivious to all things of less im-
portance. It never for one moment oc-
curred to her nor to any one of them, that
Deborah had a lover coming upon the
scene to interrupt their pleasure. Neverthe-
less, he came and very unceremoniously.
	As he had asserted in his letter, he dashed 
up the lane, where the gates stood open, 
really the main entrance for carriages, driv-
ing a span of fine grey horses, and a hand-
some turn-out in every respect for traveling.
The bells rang out so wildly close to the
house that the ladies and children all rushed
to the windows except Deborah, who was
ready to faint before she knew what the
matter was. At the sound of the bells, Ed-
ward was on hand, and seeing a total
stranger, was about to speak, when the
young man jumped out of the sleigh and in-
troduced himself, with the salutation, “I
suppose you are young Mr. Curtis, and I
am Frank Lockwood, from Athol. I sup-
pose your sister has told you about me!”
	“No, I never heard of your existence, but
come in; you’re welcome. Let me take your
horses to the barn. You’ve driven hard, I.
see—a fine team.”
	The horses were taken care of, and Ed-
ward Curtis led the way to the house, but
on entering, with the expectation of finding
Deborah to explain matters, the room was
vacated except the children and babies and
gentlemen guests; the eldest brother opened
up a conversation with the young stranger,
and Edward stepped out to see what was
going on, for from the stranger’s remarks
he had gathered that the young man had
come a-wooing, something after the fashion
of olden times, on the defensive, declaring
war beforehand. He found his mother and
sisters were engaged in bringing Deborah
out of a dead faint, which only seemed to
complicate things in his mind, and made
him think seriously of sending the young
man about his business, but finally con-
cluded not to precipitate matters, but wait
to see the scenes unravel. Frank was very
uncomfortable. Every time the door opened
he expected to see Deborah, but she came
not, and the impatient lover grew weary of
waiting. “What has this young man to say,
fact, no one knew what to say. One after
another the married sisters came into the
parlor and were introduced to Mr. Lock-
wood, but Deborah’s name was never men-
tioned. A child came in and spoke to Ed-

[Column 2]
ward. He excused himself; his sister had
sent for him, and his mother was also in
waiting. “What has this young man to say
who has thrust himself upon us at this un-
seasonable time?” said the mother. “He
has said nothing as yet, except to ask if my
sister told me of his coming”. “Will you
inquire his errand, Edward?” resumed the
mother, with the most perfect composure?
“As you please, mother, but what does
Deborah say?” “That you must persuade
him to go away without seeing her; that she
is not engaged to him.”
	“Then she gave him encouragement, has
trifled with his affections? The fellow is
desperate, a veritable hero of romance.”
	There was no help for it; Edward had
never been in love himself, but somehow he
felt a great sympathy for this daring young
fellow who could face a whole house full of
relatives, determined to conquer them all.
He thought a great deal of his sister—not
exactly his style. She was such a delicate,
fragile creature, but beautiful and gentle,
and so sensitive he could scarcely see how
any man could want her for a wife. That
word seemed to him to imply too much for
one so young and inexperienced. However,
if he must “face the music,” better begin
right away.
	Edward sent to invite Mr. Lockwood to
meet him in an adjoining room, and of 
course he did so, and they talked over the
matter seriously together. Edward found
his sister had spoken truly when she said
she had given him no hope of loving him,
but Frank was one of those men that by
some peculiar fascination compel women in
spite of themselves, to listen and often im-
agine it is true love, when upon serious re-
flection they are convinced it is not the love
that is needed for the daily duties of life. It
passes for the real article in the matrimo-
nial market very often, but when it is put
into the crucible and tested, there proves to
be very little of the genuine material. If
the experience of others could be valued at
its proper estimate, girls would be more
considerate before hand, and when they
made a choice it might perhaps be a wiser
one. It is customary to call marriage a lot-
tery, etc., and very erroneous ideas of love
prevail among men as well as women. For
instance, this happy Christmas was inter-
rupted and the guests dispersed in anything
but gay spirits through the inopportune ar-
rival upon the scene of this young stranger,
who fancied himself madly in love. He
succeeded admirably in creating a sensation
and unsetting the household. The family
party thus rudely broken in upon could not
regain the same feelings of enjoyment and
those who went away with the good-bve
upon their lips felt that they had met in
the old home for the last time.
	The irrepressible lover was persistent and
fascinating enough to ingratiate himself into
favor with the mother and big brother and
finally to carry Deborah away captive (not
on the wings of the wind) but after the

[Column 3]
manner of men, as his bride. Not long after,
the old home was disposed of to Edward,
who, notwithstanding his regard for ances-
tral inheritances, sold it to strangers.
	Those who remain of that numerous fam
ly who gathered around the same hearth-
stone on that festive occasion, are scattered
far and wide. Some who were babes then
are sleeping in unknown graves, having per-
shed on the battle-field; others lie where
stately monuments mark their resting place
and tell of their heroic deeds. But though 
many have died out of the number who
spent Christmas at the old home, yet, nev-
ertheless, the tribe has increased and
strange to state, the fragile little maiden
Deborah, who was the prime cause of the
excitement, has the largest posterity of them
all, unless it be the eldest son. It would be
impossible to tell you the whole story in one
evening, but the old home long ago went to
ruin, though the great, ugly well-sweep is
still there, and the pure water as it was then
has never failed, and the weary traveler
halts on his way to take a drink from the
old well, and the neighbors come hither to
get water when their wells fail. The hem-
lock grove is not yet all cut awav. and the
pines still sigh and moan and shiver, and
the evergreens twine themselves under and
around the trees and shrubs, and the beau-
tiful birds (or their posterity) still sing the
sweet songs that thrilled the hearts of those
happy children in the days gone by.
						AUNT EM.


[Column 1]
		NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	For the first time in Colorado’s history a
woman has been elected State Senator. She
is Mrs. Helen Ring Robinson of Denver,
book reviewer of the Rocky Mountain News.
She will take her seat when the General
Assembly convenes in January.
	A considerable number of women have
sat in the Lower House at different times,
but a woman. Senator is an innovation—
even in Colorado, with its twenty years of
equal suffrage.
	In private life, Mrs. Robinson is the wife
of a Denver lawyer. She took a leading
part in the successful campaign made a few
years ago to keep Denver’s corrupt water
company from securing a twenty-year re-
newal of its franchise, and is a woman,
highly respected. Even before she takes
her seat in the Upper House a movement
has been launched to make her president
pro tem. of the Senate, and she stands a
fair chance, as the Democrats are in the ma-
jority. Mrs. Robinson was elected on the
Democratic ticket. In fact, so popular is
she that she ran far ahead of the ticket.
	Only one other woman in the United
States has ever been chosen State Senator.
Mrs. Martha Hughes Cannon was elected
to the Utah Senate some years ago and did
good service there.—Exchange.
	Woman suffrage is to be debated in more
than one hundred high schools throughout
North Carolina in the coming year, as the
result of plans adopted recently by the
State Teachers’ Assembly. The women
teachers also adopted resolutions demanding
that women be appointed to positions on
school boards and on textbook committees.
	“Abigail Scott Duniway, done in her 79th
year.”
	Below the name of Governor Oswald
West upon the proclamation that makes
equal suffrage effective in Oregon, the
counter-signature of Mrs. Duniway, written
by her on November 30, was her final word
in a campaign that has been carried on by
her indomitably for more than 14 years.
	“There,” she said, as she laid down the
pen and the Governor bent over her shoul-
der to place the blotter upon the signature,
“It’s a fact at last.”
	The Portland Oregonian says:
“The proclamation was written by Mrs.
Duniway herself at Governor West’s sug-
gestion, and, with the exception of his sig-
nature and the attesting signature of Sec-
retary of State Olcott, every line upon the
parchment was made by her pen. Before
signing the document Governor West had
her fill out the blanks for numbers and date
lines, so the proclamation might uniformly
be her work.

[Column 2]
	Miss Mary M. Barteleme, for eighteen
years public guardian of Cook county, Ill.,
was inaugurated, Dec. 12, as Chicago’s first
woman judge. Miss Barteleme was the
choice of the judges of the circuit court.
She will assist Judge Pinckney in the juve-
nile court and will direct most of her atten-
tion to girls who come under the court’s
jurisdiction.

	Holland has just had its first suffrage
procession. The Amsterdam Woman Suf-
frage Association lost its president, a pio-
neer worker in the cause and much beloved,
Mrs. Theodora Haver. She was given such
a funeral as no woman in Holland ever had
before. The many equal rights societies
sent banner-bearers and delegates; the bier
was covered with the white and yellow suf-
frage flag, and followed by a multitude of
floral tributes. Then came the relatives,
and after them hundreds of suffragists from
all parts of the country. Preceded by a
band playing Beethoven’s and Chopin’s
funeral marches, the procession wended its
way through the streets of Amsterdam to
the railroad station, whence the body was
taken to Bremen for cremation. The fu-
neral is reported to have made a great fin-
pression.

	Miss Mabel Boardman, secretary of the
American Red Cross, today received from
the White House the insignia of the fifth
Order of Crown, conferred upon her by
the Japanese emperor for distinguished ser-
vice.
	So far as officials here know today it is
the first time an American woman has
been so honored by Japan. The order con-
ferred upon Miss Boardman was specially
established to recognize meritorious service
done by women.
	The insignia was sent to President Taft,
president of the American Red Cross, by
Marquis Matsukati, head of the Japanese
Red Cross. President Taft has written to
the marquis and to the Japanese emperor,
thanking them for the honor paid Miss
Boardman.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MAP
	FOR BOOK OF MORMON STUDY
			By Vincy R. Barker
Prepared Especially for Relief Society Classes
	Approved by the General Board

	Designed to give the student a general view
and lasting impression of Book of Mormon
lands from the beginning of Nephite and Jar-
edite history at Jerusalem and Babylon, Asia,
to their close in America.
	With the arrangement of the map of the
World with the Western Hemisphere at the
right we see at once all the countries and the
leading cities involved in Book of Mormon and
early Church history.
	Because of the uncertainty and difference of
opinion existing in regard to the location of
Book of Mormon points only such locations
are made as our leading Book of Mormon stu-
dents seem to harmonize upon, leaving teach-
ers to make minor locations for their own use
according to their own interpretation of the
text.
	Listed upon the map are:
	1st. Authority for all locations made.
	2nd. Under the name of their respective
countries all the cities not located with their
reference in the text and date of first mention.
	3rd. The Hills with reference.
	Large size 24x35 inch, cloth, mounted, $2.00,
per dozen. $20.00.
	Small size, 10x15 inch, paper, 15 cents, per
dozen. $1.25.
	Special terms to Stakes desiring to place
small ones in their outlines and large ones in
Ward Societies.
		VINCY R. BARKER
1144 Washington Ave.		Ogden, Utah

R. K. THOMAS CO., 
67-69 MAIN STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
Waists at Popular Prices.	.	.	.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


<Beaver>
<Mary A White>
					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
