Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities

President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968]

Early in April of this year, it was my honor and privilege to be the guest speaker at a meeting held in New York City in honor of the 80th anniversary of the founding of the National Council of Women of the United States and also the International Council of Women. These two great councils were established in 1888 primarily in the interest

of woman's suffrage with two so-called giants of the early suffrage movement, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, as the key figures. Today millions of the world's women are identified with these councils. There were in attendance at this anniversary meeting more than 700 women with sixty-one countries of the world represented. These were capable, serious-minded women leaders who had distinguished themselves in varied fields of human endeavor in their respective countries. They were women of conscience concerned with ways to alleviate the strains under which we are now living and anxious to bring about a more just, orderly, and peaceful way of life.

In inviting me to speak, I was advised that it was the aim to have the program recognize the past in the world of woman with particular emphasis upon her work in the field of woman's suffrage, her place today, and what may be expected of her tomorrow. Considerable research was involved in the preparation of my address. Three strong impressions emerged from this research.

First, the dedication of women of the past to the cause of suffrage and their conviction of its rightness. So strong were Mrs. Stanton's convictions that according to one of her biographers, Theodore Tilton, "she would willingly have given her body to be burned for the sake of seeing her sex enfranchised." While Susan B. Anthony, according to one of her biographers, Ida H. Harper, "... stood ready to sink all personal feelings for the sake of promoting this cause which she placed above all else in the world."

Second, I was impressed with the long and hard struggle of the women, the patience and persistence with which they overcame almost inconceivable obstacles in order to achieve their goal.

Third, I was impressed by the worthy motives which prompted early-day leaders to work for woman's suffrage. I found nothing in my reading which indicated, in any way, that the struggle was in order that women might be competitive with men in public life; rather suffrage was seen as an avenue through which women might have voice in public affairs, use their talents and exercise their judgment in the achievement of a better life for all. They saw it as a means to enlighten women for the enhancement of the society in which they were destined to live.

Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities

Mormon women were active in the suffrage movement, as we all know. National suffrage was granted the women of the United States with the adoption of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution in 1920. In most countries of the world today, women now enjoy these rights. In a few countries, they are still being pursued. It is of interest that once a nation grants suffrage to its women, there is, as a rule, a general favorable response to the action. For example, so delighted was Iran when suffrage was granted its women, a few short years ago, that the International Council of Women was invited by Empress Farah and the Princess Ashraf (twin sister of the Shah) to hold its triennial meeting in Teheran in honor of the event.

When, in comparatively recent years, the women of Chile won suffrage, there appeared in the International Council of Women Bulletin an account of the event from which I quote the following: The formal announcement of this law was attended by brilliant and important personages. After an eloquent speech, the President of the Republic designated this day as a historical date to commemorate this great event for the democracy of the country, when a new and an inspired contingent—the women—would begin to participate in the responsibilities of citizenship. With this, a new day dawns for Chile.

The president of the National Council of Women of Chile had this to say: The task which awaits women is as great as the difficulties they have overcome; but it is not only Chile that is confronted with this terrifying dilemma, but the entire Western civilization. And it is today that woman should take on her share of responsibility on a par with man in the destiny of a world hungry for faith in eternal, spiritual values, impoverished by crises and economic conflicts, bleeding from the wounds of war, frightened by the possible disintegration of the universe—this is the opportune moment.

At this time we must collaborate, men and women unitedly, if we want a ray of hope to dispel the clouds that obscure the future.

And, indeed, it does seem that the time has arrived when the focus of woman should no longer be on her rights, but rather upon her responsibilities; when the same dedication that characterized the winning of suffrage should characterize the achievement of the goals envisioned for it by the pioneer leaders of the cause; namely, the use of woman's talents and the exercise of her judgment, the use of the ballot, in making a better world. The times demand on all sides a new degree of public mindedness—an awakened conscience, a penetrating appraisal of those factors which have made nations great, along with re-dedicated allegiance to them. The times call for a greater degree of individual responsibility on the part of men and women alike in preserving the free way of life, together with the self-discipline that marks its wise and orderly use.

As I looked out at the 700 women assembled for the Council's anniversary meeting and considered, for just a brief moment, the vast body of organized women which they represented, I was forcibly struck with the power and influence. That are now in the hands of women. This power, properly directed and wisely used, could and would bring about great changes for good.

Democracy is a precious heritage. It has been defined as government by the people; government in which the supreme power is retained by the people and exercised directly and indirectly through a system of representation. Its base is liberty. Its expression is the voice of the people. The law of free agency is a law of God.

Considering democracy a little more intimately, it means the right to go to the Church of our choice unrestricted, the right to express our opinions without danger to ourselves, the right to own property, to work and save and make provision for our future; the right to maintain our homes and rear our children according to our own desires and standards; the right to go forward and improve our own conditions and pursue the interests which make us happy without unnecessary restraints or restrictions; the right to realize our full potential as individuals—rights guaranteed us by a government in which we have voice.

This democratic way of life did not have its inception with the thirteen American colonies; nor is it peculiar to America. The ancient Greeks were advocates of it. History records that Aristotle taught that a state should be but the joining together of people for the happiness of themselves and families, with each one being allowed as much independence as possible, without interfering with the rights of others. He declared that laws would be made and must be sovereign. Modifications in the law would be made by established processes.

As early as 1215 Magna Carta was conceived—the foundation and pillar of English constitutional law. It placed limitations on the exercise of arbitrary powers of the King and was a charter of individual liberty for the people. The Bill of Rights set forth in the Constitution of the United States was patterned after Magna Carta.

As Latter-day Saints, we know that God's prophets have taught the importance of freedom which comes through representative government. About 90 B.C., King Mosiah on the American Continent admonished his people: Now it is not common that the voice of the people desireth anything contrary to that which is right; but it is common for the lesser part of the people to desire that which is not right; therefore this shall ye observe and make it your law—to do your business by the voice of the people. (Mosiah 29:26.)

It is highly disturbing that today certain influences are making inroads upon our democracy and its happy productive way of life for the people. Women properly should be concerned with these.

May I suggest a few such influences:

1. The moral lassitude on the part of people in private and public life.
2. The ascendancy of materialism over spiritual values.
3. The growing disregard of law and order.
4. The various social devices and programs now being offered which tend to stifle individual initiative, deter self-effort, impair character, and which could ultimately enslave the individual.

Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities

What can we women do about these? How can we, the average women, the housewives on the farms and in the cities, impede or negate these adverse influences and promote that which has been proved to be good?

Let us first consider the problem of moral lassitude. Our greatest danger today, according to many thinking people, is from ourselves—from our growing disregard for principle and our reliance upon expediency. The decline in national character is a serious danger to democracy because if we lose our standards, our liberties may also be lost through abuses, corruption, and chaos.

Personal integrity, honesty, trustworthiness, honorableness of intent and action, moral conduct in private and public life are the character fibers of democracy. These cannot be "taken on" as an individual, grown to manhood or womanhood, steps out to play his or her part in the affairs of the world. They must be inculcated in the individual in the days of his infancy and youth. These are given root and most effectively nourished in the home.

Through her training, example, and watchcare, a mother can implant moral principles in a child so that when his influence is extended into public life, there will be no winking at unscrupulous or dishonorable behavior, but a steadfast adherence to right. In molding national character and creating public opinion that looks upon moral lassitude with a high degree of disfavor (and this, I believe, is the most effective way of dealing with this evil), it is my conviction that there is no group with greater power than women.

This may seem a slow way of dealing with an urgent problem, but, in reality, as we consider the quick pace of time between childhood and adult life, it isn't so slow; but, nonetheless, it is sure. There is no way, in my judgment, whereby women can make a better contribution to public life.

Next, let us consider the materialism that is exerting itself as never before. This is threatening our rich, spiritual heritage. Spiritual strength, faith in God, and a reliance on his providences are essential to human wellbeing. Skepticism and unbelief are weapons of despotism. Tyranny and oppression do not thrive in an atmosphere of faith and religious devotion.

Women have been regarded in the past as architects of spirituality. Today it would seem that the spiritual natures of many of us need an overhauling. Material advantage all too often seems predominantly to motivate our actions at a sacrifice of spiritual values. When the spiritual natures, deeply embedded in women, become dormant or choked out, then we have real cause to fear.

Women should make every effort to build and strengthen the spiritual qualities of life through faith in God, through participation in Church activities, through developing well-defined religious concepts and beliefs, and through teaching them to their children; through a cultivation of their innate spiritual natures without which there can be no really good life. Not what we have, but what we are should be the watchword of womankind.

Relative to disregard for law and order, it is but reasonable that woman as mother, householder, educator, spiritual anchor, and the living conscience of her contemporaries would discountenance any attitude or action that would not uphold the sovereignty of law. True, she would be sensitive to human needs and sympathetic toward correcting or improving conditions which warrant this; she would work toward their betterment, but she would do so in an orderly way. She would not lend herself to action that would in any way agitate militancy or public disturbance. Rather she would concern herself with acquiring an informed understanding of the causes of the condition; she would thoughtfully determine how best to deal with these; she would work toward creating an enlightened public opinion, and accomplish desired changes within the framework of law.

All too often, I fear, women who are by nature inclined to be moved by their emotions, become so exercised over a problem as to lose sight of the proper approaches to its solution. This must be avoided. Mormon women know that latter-day revelation requires of us strict allegiance to civil law. It is my belief that organized women upholding the sovereignty of civil law and working toward needed social reform through orderly processes can be a power for good.

With regard to the fourth adverse influence to which I referred, let us exercise our hard-won franchise. Let us sense our individual responsibility to see that persons elected to public office are competent and morally sound; that they are persons who will protect the policies and practices of democracy and not yield to new and enslaving ways of governing; persons who will so govern that national character will remain strong.

Generally speaking, I believe that people resent help that does not allow for reciprocal effort. Let us as women take measure of our own attitudes and wants. What do we expect of government? Would those things which we want serve the greatest good of the greatest number of people? What are we willing to contribute toward their attainment? Are we content to limit our contribution to complaints or do we sense our responsibility to improve conditions through the orderly and intelligent exercise of our franchise?

Let us keep informed on the local, national, and international issues before us. This is not hard to do in this day of extensive communication. Let us listen to the viewpoints of those who seek election to public office and who may have to deal with these issues. Let us consider whether their viewpoints square with the principles that have traditionally contributed to worthy government and the wellbeing of the people. Let us as Mormon women weigh them against the principles which have been taught us through precept and example by our leaders from the very beginning days of the Church. Let us listen to the voice of the prophets.

I have faith in the women of the Church. I have faith in the countless good women of the world rising to a realization that they do have influence and power in correcting existing ills and in promoting right, and that they will prove themselves effective in the orderly achievement of a better world.