My Sisters and | Counselor Louise W. Madsen

The belief in the brotherhood of man is one of the foremost doctrines of the Church. We believe implicitly in the Fatherhood of God which encompasses the knowledge of the brotherhood of man. Sisterhood is one of the great blessings of Relief Society. Each sister having the concept of the sisterhood of the daughters of our Heavenly Father, knowing that one of the reasons he caused Relief Society to be organized was to foster that sisterhood, will identify herself as a sister in the Society and as a sister to those to whom she can be of service.

Each individual member will, with humility, think of "my sisters and I" as she contemplates some of the forces which lead to an abundant life, and as She pledges her service and loyalty. My sisters and I will be benevolent, with all the moral excellence benevolence implies. President McKay has said, "All acts of kindness, of self-denial, of self-devotion, of forgiveness, of charity, of love, spring from this divine attribute." Benevolence is the sum of many virtues and is one of the attributes of the Father and the Son which mortals strive to emulate.

The Prophet Joseph Smith was confident that the sisters of Relief Society possessed a knowledge of the pure principles of benevolence and practiced them. Each of us has been the recipient of the benevolent deeds of others. From this experience we learn to act toward others in the same manner.

My sisters and I will serve the Lord together. With them and through them I will learn compassion.

My sisters and I will serve those in sickness and distress, becoming involved in the misfortunes of others to the extent that our services prove helpful and uplifting. Because I have been one with them in service I may expect their tender ministrations if need comes to me. But further, by their example, I will be led to see the needs of those about me.

A heightened awareness of the blessings of service will guide me. I will not be blind to the sight of someone who needs me, nor deaf to the call of the helpless, nor indifferent to distress. I will go beyond myself to a greater loving-kindness. "Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love." (Rom. 12:10), the apostle Paul admonished. This affection appears in the joy of being together, of working together, of laughing or crying together. Brotherliness or sisterliness is but the manifestation of the Spirit of Christ. It increases in us a great appreciation of the Savior's value of the individual soul. This affection extends far beyond the intimate circle of close friends to sisters in great cities, in small hamlets, in distant lands, across wide oceans, over high mountains, in every part of the earth. The affection of sisters binds us together in a closely knit worldwide organization. Sisterhood implies mutual dependence, a purpose in common and the "oneness" the Lord requires of his daughters.

Among life's sweetest blessings is the companionship of those with noble ideals. The influence for good one's life has been is one of the measures of successful living. My sisters and I will study together, learn together, and teach one another. Deeply spiritual experiences will result from learning the great doctrines of the gospel and the simple truisms of the faith. Testimonies will be strengthened. Enrichment will enter our lives as we partake of the refining influences of culture and beauty. An increased understanding of what constitutes the finest literature, the greatest art, the best music will enable us to acquire the knowledge which will make us better women.

Spirituality, culture, refinement—do these not reflect the ideals of womanhood of which we are capable? Together we will achieve them.

My sisters and I will be true to the faith.

My sisters and I will endeavor to build happy homes, to bring to our husbands and children all the love and devotion of our hearts and souls. The aura of graciousness, of kindness, of courtesy, of thoughtfulness will permeate our homes. There will be beauty all around, spiritual beauty as well as physical beauty, as we enlarge our homemaking talents and practice the feminine graces that are the natural heritage of women.

Relief Society is a joyous sisterhood of women uniting to do the will of the Lord. Together the members accomplish important things, yet each individual is benefited from being a part of the whole. No one has lost her identity. The Society is not one which effaces the individual, but one which enhances her abilities, personality, and character. Each member is cherished and in turn cherishes her sisters. "Whither thou goest," whither thou leadest in righteousness, I will follow, she promises those appointed to lead this great Society.

Together, my sisters and I will accept the Prophet's challenge to build up Relief Society to the Most High in the most acceptable manner. The women of the Church will fill their role in its blessed entirety.

My sisters and I are grateful to our Heavenly Father for the great blessing of being his daughters.