ELDER WILLIAM JAMES CRITCHLOW, JR. Assistant to the Council of the Twelve August 21, 1892–August 29, 1968 Elder William James Critchlow, Jr., Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away in Ogden, Utah, August 29, 1968 at the age of seventy-six. Elder Critchlow was appointed an assistant to the Council of the Twelve in , and has since fulfilled many important assignments for the Church. At the time of his death, he was an aid to Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve in supervising stakes and missions in the Southeastern United States. Prior to this, he had assisted Elder Ezra Taft Benson, also of the Council of the Twelve, in supervising stakes and missions in Europe. He served as an advisor to the Primary organization and on the Church personnel committee, while a General Authority.

Prior to his call to be a General Authority, Elder Critchlow served in many important Church positions, including seventeen years as president of the South Ogden Stake. Elder Critchlow was born in Brigham City, Utah, August 21, 1892. He was the son of Anna Gregerson and William James Critchlow. He received his education in the Ogden public schools, and was graduated from Weber Academy and studied at the University of Utah. His business career was one of hard-won success. Within ten years he had gone from office clerk to regional manager of the Utah Light and Railway Company, now Utah Power and Light Company.

In 1924, Elder Critchlow was married to Anna Marie Taylor of Ogden in the Salt Lake Temple. They are the parents of three children, William James, III, Robert Taylor, and Patricia (Mrs. Datus H. Maughan). There are fifteen grandchildren.

Elder Critchlow was always dedicated and devoted to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. As a General Authority, he traveled extensively for the Church, attending stake conferences, touring missions, dedicating chapels, and preaching the gospel. Wherever he went he was a popular and inspirational speaker, and his enthusiastic testimony of the work in which he was engaged was infectious.

The General Board and members of Relief Society in all stakes and missions of the Church extend sympathy to the family and many friends of Elder Critchlow at his passing.