SPIRITUAL LIVING Lesson 93: The Nauvoo Temple and Its Higher Ordinances Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C 124:25-44.)

Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: 

OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman prepares herself for the higher ordinances of the temple as her circumstances permit.

INTRODUCTION One of the distinguishing features of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is temple building. Beautiful buildings, some of which are called temples, have been constructed in many parts of the world, but none of these edifices has the same function and purpose as a temple built by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

The earliest reference to a structure like a temple is the Tabernacle carried by the Israelites in the wilderness after coming out of Egyptian bondage. Because of the nature of the sacred ordinances performed, the Lord referred in a modern revelation to the need for the Tabernacle. This tabernacle was to be "with them in the wilderness..." (D&C 124:38) until a house of the Lord could be built in the land of Canaan where the Lord would reveal ordinances to his people.

There is little information concerning the actual ordinances performed in the temples of the past. It is evident that a knowledge of temple ordinances was known very early, perhaps, however, not in fulness. (See Facsimile No. 2 in the Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham, Figures 3, 7, and 8.)

The apostles Peter and Paul foresaw the day when there would be a restoration of all things spoken of by the prophets in the period known as the dispensation of the fulness of times. (Acts 3:19-21; Ephesians 1:9-10.) Since temples were a part of earlier dispensations, they would also be found among the Lord's people in the last days. These temples would be places where people from all nations would assemble to worship the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. (Isaiah 2:2-3; Micah 4:1-2.)

Class Discussion Why would you expect temples to be found among the Lord's people in the latter days?

KIRTLAND TEMPLE The first temple erected in this dispensation was located at Kirtland, Ohio, and dedicated on March 27, 1836. It was in that year on April 3rd, the keys of the priesthood were restored. (D&C Section 110.)

The Kirtland Temple was unlike other temples constructed later. Regular and special worship services and the School of the Prophets were conducted in that temple.

NAUVOO TEMPLE From Missouri, the saints settled in Illinois at Commerce, later named Nauvoo, on the banks of the Mississippi River. In accordance with the commandment to build a temple at Nauvoo, the cornerstones were laid April 6, 1841. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts; 2d ed. Rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1957, Vol. 4, pp. 327-331 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC]; Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, 13th ed.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1953, pp. 308-309.)

The walls of the temple were up to the windows at the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith's death, but the temple was completed to the attic and dedicated November 30, 1845 (DHC 7:534) so that endowments could be administered during the winter of 1845-46. The public dedication of the temple was held on May 1, 1846. (Essentials in Church History, p. 400.)

A baptismal font was built in the basement of the Nauvoo Temple, and baptisms for the dead were performed in November 1841. (Essentials in Church History, p. 310.)

The temple was burned in the fall of 1848, and the walls were blown down by a hurricane, May 27, 1850.

Since the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, thirteen other temples have been erected in the United States and in foreign countries.

HIGHER ORDINANCES OF THE GOSPEL The higher ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ consist of those ceremonies and ordinances which are received in the House of the Lord. The fact that there are ordinances which are called "higher," suggests other principles and ordinances which are "lesser." The first principles and ordinances of salvation are faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance of sins, baptism in water for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost. (3 Nephi 27:13-21; D&C 33:10-11.)

These principles are to be taught freely to all who will listen, but the higher ordinances are not to be revealed except in a temple.

IMPORTANCE OF FIRST PRINCIPLES The New Testament teaches that without faith in Christ, repentance of sins, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and receiving the Holy Ghost, it is impossible to "enter into the kingdom of God." (John 3:5; Acts 2:29-39; Romans 6:3-5.)

THE NEW TESTAMENT AND HIGHER ORDINANCES The Savior taught his disciples many things which they were to know but which were not for the world. Similarly, the higher ordinances of the gospel may be received by the faithful, devoted member of the Church, but nonmembers and even some members of the Church are not prepared to receive these temple ordinances.

Wherein does the New Testament reveal that there is a segment of the gospel which is reserved for only the disciples?

Upon one occasion the Savior took only Peter, James, and John with him on the Mount where a wonderful manifestation was received by them. Concerning this vision, the Savior advised his disciples: "Tell the vision to no man, until the Son of man be risen again from the dead." (Matthew 17:9.)

In answer to a question from his disciples as to why he taught the people in parables, the following was given:... Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given. For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance: but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath. Therefore speak I to them in parables: because they seeing see not; hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. (Matthew 13:11-13.)

The apostle Paul had the experience of being caught up to heaven, and hearing words which were not lawful for man to utter. (2 Corinthians 12:2-4.) Thus the gospel in the meridian dispensation contained information which was not to be revealed to the multitudes, but the disciples were to receive these greater things of the kingdom.

The Book of Mormon also bears testimony to this same truth, as expressed by the Prophet Alma: "It is given unto many to know the mysteries of God; nevertheless they are laid under a strict command that they shall not impart only according to the portion of his word which he doth grant unto the children of men, according to the heed and diligence which they give unto him." (Alma 12:9.) However, what if an individual rejects the greater word? Alma continues: "And therefore, he that will harden his heart, the same receiveth the lesser portion of the word; and he that will not harden his heart, to him is given the greater portion of the word, until it is given unto him to know the mysteries of God until he know them in full. And they that will harden their hearts, to them is given the lesser portion of the word until they know nothing concerning his mysteries; and then they are taken captive by the devil, and led by his will down to destruction." (Ibid., verses 10-11.) 

 A PROMISE FULFILLED

In the teachings of the resurrected Christ to the Nephites, it is recorded that only the lesser part of what he taught the Nephites was written that they might be brought forth in the last days. If the people would receive this part, then the greater things would be given them. (3 Nephi 26:6-11.)

Within a year after the Church was organized, the Lord revealed that Joseph Smith held "the keys of the mystery of those things which have been sealed" (D&C 30:18) and that these mysteries were to be known to the saints but not to the world. (D&C 42:65.) The Lord's promise to his saints is, having its fulfillment today, in that those who are keeping the commandments receive the mysteries of the kingdom, which lead to everlasting life. (Ibid., 63:23.)

 

In September of 1832, the Lord revealed that the Melchizedek Priesthood, sometimes called the "greater priesthood," holds the "key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the knowledge of God." (D&C 84:19.) It is also said that when Moses brought the children of Israel from Egyptian bondage, an effort was made to prepare the people to enter into the Lord's rest, which is the fulness of his glory where they could behold the face of God, but they would not for they had hardened their hearts. (Ibid., verses 19-24.) Without the knowledge of God there is no salvation in its highest sense. To know God ultimately is to become like him, and thus receive all that the Father hath as an exalted being. (Ibid., verses 38-39.)

As indicated, the means by which both men and women may receive the knowledge of God is received by ordinances and, thus, the faithful member of the Church by obedience to commandments may be exalted. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation; Compiled by Bruce R. McConkie; 9th printing, 1965; Salt Lake City: Bookcraft; 3:142-143.) No person can receive the fulness of the priesthood except in the temple. (D&C 124:27-28; DHC 5:424.)

The Prophet Joseph Smith spent the day of May 4, 1842, in his private office instructing some of the brethren, "in the principles and order of the Priesthood, attending to washings, anointings, endowments and the communication of keys pertaining to the Aaronic Priesthood, and so on to the highest order of the Melchisedek Priesthood, setting forth the order pertaining to the Ancient of Days, and all those plans and principles by which any one is enabled to secure the fullness of those blessings which have been prepared for the Church of the First Born, and come up and abide in the presence of the Eloheim in the eternal worlds..." (DHC 5:1, 2.)

Elder James E. Talmage defined the temple endowment as follows: "The Temple Endowment, as administered in modern temples, comprises instruction relating to the significance and sequence of past dispensations, and the importance of the present as the greatest and grandest era in human history. This course of instruction includes a recital of the most prominent events of the creative period, the condition of our first parents in the Garden of Eden, their disobedience and consequent expulsion from that blissful abode, their condition in the lone and dreary world when doomed to live by labor and sweat, the plan of redemption by which the great transgression may be atoned, the period of the great apostasy, the restoration of the Gospel with all its ancient powers and privileges, the absolute and indispensable condition of personal purity and devotion to the right in present life, and a strict compliance with Gospel requirements." (The House of the Lord; 3rd printing, 1963; Salt Lake City: Bookcraft; pp. 99-100.)

Embodied in the endowment are opportunities for the participant to receive the necessary knowledge and covenants for eternal advancement. Elder Talmage continues his discussion of the endowment as follows: "Lesson Department The ordinances of the endowment embody certain obligations on the part of the individual, such as covenant and promise to observe the law of strict virtue and chastity, to be charitable, benevolent, tolerant and pure; to devote both talent and material means to the spread of truth and the uplifting of the race; to maintain devotion to the cause of truth; and to seek in every way to contribute to the great preparation that the earth may be made ready to receive her King—the Lord Jesus Christ. With the taking of each covenant and the assuming of each obligation a promised blessing is pronounced, contingent upon the faithful observance of the conditions." (Ibid., p. 100.)

The Lord does not hold responsible those individuals of his Church who do not have the opportunity to fulfill commandments. If circumstances do not, at the present, allow for them to receive all of the ordinances of the gospel, they will probably be found in the situation in which Oliver Cowdery found himself: "Behold, thou art Oliver, and I have spoken unto thee because of thy desires; therefore treasure up these words in thy heart. Be faithful and diligent in keeping the commandments of God, and I will encircle thee in the arms of my love." (D&C 6:20.) Other conditions being equal, desires go to judgment as well as deeds. Elder Harold B.

Lee of the Council of the Twelve, in advising young women of the Church who had not the opportunity to marry a worthy member of the Church, said that for these women, by continuing to live worthy lives, the time would come when no blessing would be denied them. (Youth and the Church, p. 132.) Class Discussion Wherein is the justice of God shown in the truth that righteous desires go to judgment as well as deeds? IMPLEMENTATION The dispensation of the fulness of times was prophesied as a period when the teachings and practices of other dispensations would be restored to the earth. Among these would be the building of temples and the performance of sacred ordinances therein. Without these higher ordinances, known in scripture also as the mysteries of the kingdom, it would be impossible for men and women, eventually, to enter God's presence to receive the knowledge of God, which is exaltation in the celestial kingdom. Both men and women receive the blessings of the fulness of the priesthood in the temple, but they are laid under a strict command that they will not talk about this sacred knowledge outside of the temple. This commandment is because of the sacred nature of the higher ordinances of the gospel. The Lord gave his disciples this same instruction because others were not prepared for these mysteries. The holy endowment received in the House of the Lord qualifies the faithful member of the Church to receive the ordinances, covenants, and knowledge which prepare him for God's presence after the resurrection, and with the eternal marriage covenant, for exaltation. Some members of the Church, particularly women, because of their circumstances (not being married to a worthy member of the Church or being married to a nonmember, or unmarried) will not be denied their righteous desires, if they remain true to the covenants of baptism.