[Vol9 | November 1922 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON IV - Social Service - LATER ADOLESCENCE CONTINUED and]

LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth week in January) LATER ADOLESCENCE. (CONTINUED) Extending Acquaintanceship In our previous lesson we considered the place and importance of courtship as a condition to happy married life. We  also observed the customs of courtship and the attitude of the mind which exists in our communities in relation to it. In this and the following lesson, we shall treat the subject of acquantanceship and friendship as conditions essential to successful courtship. Courtship and the Obligation of Parenthood In our generation and in this country particularly, marriage is based on love. We pride ourselves upon the fact that we select our own life companions and that our parents do not select them for us. We place great importance upon the right which every man and every woman has to select his or her own companion and that the selection is based upon love rather than wealth or class distinction. This is a real attainment, and we do not, under any consideration, desire to revert to the old regime. We believe that our system is more natural and results in greater happiness. But what we desire is to make sure that in the new liberty that has come to us, blind impulses shall not take the place of reason, and that fads will not lead us to sacrifice common sense. We need to be constanly on the alert, as parents, to protect our youth against their own blind impulses, the ever changing fads and temporary notions wh: ch may defeat the real purpose of our very democratic system of association and selection. Certainly, the yielding up of the absolute parental control in the matter of marriage did not contemplate yielding up its influence entirely. There is no problem in life where the young man and young woman needs the intelligent assistance of father and mother quite so much as in the selection of a life's companion. Experience, intelligence, parental love, protection and direction, will always have a place in solving the great problems of courtship. The Significance of Association A young man or a young woman can not select a suitabie life's companion unless he or she is given an opportunity to mingle freely with desirable young people of the opposite sex. Selection has no meaning for a young man unless he has a number of young women friends from whom to select his mate. Through such assoc'ation he is not only more likely to select a suitable companion but he develops an ideal of what a woman should be. No young man has this idea already created; it grows slowly when mingling with young people and while making comparisons of womanly virtues as they are expressed by the lives and conduct of his lady friends. Friendship and Courtship The significant place of friendship in the problem of courtship is hard to over-estimate. In fact, the success of  courtship depends almost entirely upon the period of friendship which precedes it. If a careful observation were made, we should discover that most successful marriages have been those which were preceded by a reasonable period of friendship. Love at first sight is not so common as it is sometimes supposed. The task before parents is not so much to dictate courtship as it is to direct in the field of friendship. If they can help their young people to find suitable friends, the question of finding lovers and sweethearts is less difficult. It is unwise and indeed unfair for parents to remain indifferent in matters of friendship and extremely rigid in matters of courtship. When real affection has developed between a young man and woman it is the more difficult to give proper advice. It is during the period of mere friendship when parents should give the necessary advice and counsel. It is easy and proper for parents to advise against improper attachments being formed, but it is difficult and sometimes unwise to attempt to sever relations when once deep affections are formed. The Problem of Isolation As parents, we feel inclined not to do anything that may be interpreted as "matchmaking." Thus, too often we leave the whole problem of selection to the mere control of chance. Our daughter becomes acquainted and forms friendships with any one who perchance comes in her way. She may be thrown into the company of an immoral man. She may be deprived of-any sort of congenial companionship because of isolation, as, for example, being reared on a ranch away from a community. She may live in a small rural community where there are very few young men to whom she is attracted and the interests and standards of these few are very different from her own. In such a case, something might properly be done to place her in a community where she can find companions and enlarge her association. She may be sent away to high school or college, or she may be permitted to find suitable employment in a neighboring community, always taking into consideration, of course, means of safeguarding her while she is away from home. Parents must be willing to make some sacrifice in order to give their sons and daughters extensive association of a wholesome character. The Home Party One of the most wholesome means of enjoyment and the best means of selecting desirable companionship for young people is the home party. This party being generally under  the direction, or at least conducted in cooperation with, the parents, maintains a dignity, refinement, and feeling of courtesy which is of great moral value. Unfortunately, public parties cannot maintain this control and consequently cannot develop the spirit of sociability to a high degree. In a home party the crowd is not so large but that every member might become acquainted with every other member of the group. This is also an invitation party which is, of course, a practical guarantee against the intrusion of men and women who are not desirable associates for one's sons and daughters. Our home should be planned in such a way as to be able to meet these social demands. It is well that we think of the home not from the standpoint of a mere shelter or a place of refuge, a place in which we eat and sleep?it is more than that; it is where we live and should therefore meet every demand of life. The young people need the home as a social center and so do the parents. Whatever can be done to promote social life within the home istelf is a direct protection against social evils and, more, it is a means of promoting wholesome association and is an essential condition to proper courtship., QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What responsibilities do parents have in relation to the courtship of the son or daughter? 2. What importance do you attach to our democratic methods of courtship? 3. What are some of the dangers of our very liberal system of permitting every one to make his own choice of a companion? 4. What is the significance of wide association for young people prior to marriage? 5. How does the ideal woman develop in the mind of a young man? 6. Why is friendship so important in connection with courtship? 7. What is the disadvantage of isolation from the standpoint of courtship and how can such difficulties be met? 8. Give the advantages of home parties as a means of providing proper association. TEACHERS' TOPIC (January, 1923) SHARING JOYS AND SORROWS "So we, being many, are one body in Christ, and every one g? y y y members one of another." Romans 12:5.  The misfortune of one is, in a measure, the misfortune of all. The same should be true of the good fortune of any one. Thus St. Paul admonished the Saints, "Rejoice with them that rejoice, weep with them that weep.'"?Romans 12:15. Ask the Saints to read and ponder all of this wonderful chapter of Paul's Epistle to the Romans.