For Those Who Come After Anna Prince Redd ULY Twenty-fourth... Pioneer J Day in Utah... From hamlet to city, throngs line the thoroughfares. It is a holiday, a gala day! One hundred and two years have passed since that first small band of men and three women entered the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. One hundred and two years of almost unbelievable progress! Thousands stand sweltering in the heat, waiting for the commemorating parade, heads bared to the flag and acutely conscious of the freedoms for which it stands. Pretense and folly are lost, for the moment, in reverence. Eyes are alight with pride and the spark of renewed ideals. The throat tightens as the parade, a colorful and symbolic pageant, moves down the street, historically depicting the scenes and achievements of the past. And we of the present generation can but stand and watch—and measure the adequacy of the present. Handcarts... I cannot follow them down the street. I cannot see them for my tears. "Come, Come, Ye Saints" That song is the embodiment of faith and the prayers that brought our people here. The cords of restraint all but snap, for to me it is my own parents singing It is their story I relive today we OK OK ok INTER came early in the year 1857. Almost before the fall days were done there was a heavy frost and the world seemed enveloped in a damp, thick blanket of fog. Every day it grew colder. Trees cracked in their bark and the sound was like ice popping on the Virgin River. The dampness penetrated every cranny of house and _ body. Cattle died on the range and corral stock could stand only by leaning against inadequate shelters and fences. 'The people, reduced to smutty flour for their coarse bread, with little milk or fruit, became inert like the half-frozen animals. But with the first intimation of spring the natural resilience of the pioneers called forth new courage, as surely as the warming of the sun called forth new grass. And, because horses were too poor for travel, a pioneer boy began a thirty-five-mile walk to the town where his sweetheart lived. The dawn was still raw with cold, but the air was freighted with the scent of coming buds and thawing ground. It was a good world. It made a man feel strong and free. Twelve hours later, in the welcoming, mild dusk, he swung in long strides up the street and to the house of the girl he loved. Together, they welcomed spring. Because of their distance from the Endowment House, they were married the next day by the girl's reluctant father and, in a borrowed wagon, drawn by a borrowed team, they began the journey to the town that was to be their new home. The boy had exactly a dollar and eightyfive cents. The girl had two dollars and a half, a chest packed to its bulging lid with homespuns, rugs, a Page 435 436 meager assortment of cooking utensils and dishes, and a few small packets of sugar, sage, and thyme. And, stowed carefully into the back of the wagon, was a small four-lid cookstove, her dead mother's most prized possession, now the binding link between the old life and the new for the young bride. The joint heritage of both the boy and the girl was an unshaken faith in the goodness of life and their part in it. Two days of creaking, jolting travel and the borrowed team pulled the borrowed wagon into the yard of the borrowed dugout that was to be their first home. The sun had gone down in a blaze of orange light. Strange sounds filled the twilight, sounds that saddened the girl by their unfamiliarity since they were part of the unknown that lay ahead. The boy turned the homemade key in the handmade lock, and they went into the windowless little dugout. And suddenly, because they were together, it became home. THERE followed days, weeks, and months of hardship and privation—drought, snakes, insects, hunger, fear. Sometimes, even doubt. A son was born, too frail and weak to survive in his rigid surroundings. There was little but faith left, yet it was enough to heal their sorrow and send them in search of a new and better location. The boy, in the new settlement, was assigned his section of land, did his allotted rods of fencing in the company plot, worked and prayed, fought Indians, guarded the fort; dreamed and waited for the good future he knew would be theirs. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1949 The girl, pressing back fatigue, hunger, fear, and sorrow, kept her faith, too. And she kept her smile and her love for her husband. "T see a little light," she would tell him, "we'll be prosperous some day, I have no doubt; but never more blessed than we are now. We'll have other children—sons and daughters who will be faithful and happy. All that we do now is for them." And the boy agreed. For, by then, they had a home, a garden, milk, and honey. And none of it was borrowed. Surely, God had been good to them. Then came another spring and another little new son. A strong boy, equal to his surroundings, beautiful as their faith. Then, as if to test them, they were called to help colonize in a high, cold climate that was foreign to them and seemingly barren of promise. But neither faltered. The boy left the girl to care for the little new son while he went ahead to prepare a home in the new place. The summer was hot and long. 'The girl and her baby were stricken with measles. Denied water to cool the fever and with little care by the frightened neighbors, who knew there was little they could do to stop the ravages of any disease, the baby died and the gitl was left alone. But she kept her faith and prayed to live, prayed for strength to bear her loneliness, prayed that the runner would find her husband soon and bring him home. And because of her faith, when the boy came, he found her smiling we Ke Ke "Utah, We love thee. Land of FOR THOSE WHO COME AFTER the mountains high, land of the sunny sky" Yes, Utah, we love thee! The pioneer floats were gone, now, lost in the parade. High school bands came gaily into view —smartly costumed boys and girls, playing with all the glad young strength of their hearts, their steps high with hope.... Floats depicting the state's prosperity.... Mining, manufacturing, building Agriculture, giant peaches, golden as the sunset shimmering on Great Salt Lake; celery as crisp and fresh as a mountain breeze; rainbows of flowers; floats of children, singing The new generations. And because of them, blessed be the old, the pioneer generation. A good heritage for us who pioneer in a new, and equally testing age. What is our stature? * Kk Ke & CROSS the valley, miles from the scene of the parade, is a little house, set well back in a halfacre lot, surrounded by a hopeful lawn and struggling young shrubs; wild columbine against the foundation; a steppingstone path and a waggly tailed little dog to welcome us. 'T'oday's young parents live here, and the place is their own. "I want to see what I can do on my own," the boy said. "Do you think you can take it?" "If I can't, what has my education been worth?" she countered. She is young and fair-skinned, enthusiastic as a spring day—and as hospitable. He is not home, but as she takes us through the compact little house, we see him through her eyes—young, ambitious, eager to put his heritage to the test. And such 437 dreams they have, and faith, and ideals; these modern edition pioneers, as Courageous as were my 1857 boy and girl! By the work of their hands and their minds, they have managed to preserve the culture and dignity, the courage and foresight of their ancestors. Four years of navy service and college for him, four years of making things do and getting things done, for her. Three rooms built of pumice blocks, plastered by hand just to see if he could, painted by her just to see if she could. Her eyes shine as she shows us where the lintels are placed, for doors to new rooms are already planned and, when the little house begins to get growing pains, out will come a few blocks and there the door will be. With $2,000 saved from his service days, the house was built. From the attic and basement of their parents' homes, came the furnishings. Carefully refinished or slip-covered, these pieces look modern and inviting. And there is a real little cradle, of pioneer vintage from her own and her mother's baby days. Doors, windows, marble mantle and hearth, pressed stone for the kitchen work table tops, are anniversary, birthday, and Christmas gifts from their two families and their many friends. "If I begin to wish there were more such anniversaries," she confided, laughing a little, "I remind myself of all the things the real pioneers didn't have and never even dreamed of having: radiant heat, electric lights, automatic stoves and washing machines, refrigeration, doctors to apply the sciences that have brought children's diseases down to