Let There Be Light J. Lloyd Woodruff, M. D.
======================================================================

Let There Be Light.. Lloyd Woodruff, M. D. When the average mind considers building a house, architects, carpenters, masons, phmibers, are in turn considered. When a horse is to be shod the aid of a blacksmith is required. In legal tangles a lawyer is consulted. Irrigation projects necessitate skilled engineers, concrete workers, rock men, teamsters, etc. It is only when the most delicate and generally speaking least understood machine ever created, the human body, is missing fire that any and every one feels capable of giving expert advice. Do you doubt this, fall ill, walk down the street and advertise the fact; nearly every friend you meet will give some infallible remedy for anything from sore corns or spavin joint to gall stones or appendicitis. The results if all this friendly advice were taken at one dose, to say the least would be problematic. The lay public may be divided into two fairly defined classes, a hopeless minority that says: "If I am so ill that the services of a physician are needed I do what he tells me, he's the doctor." And an optimistic majority with the slogan: "When I call a doctor I listen to all he says, if it sounds good to me I do it; if it don't, I do as I please. I use my own judgment and take the medicine or throw it out of the winder. I've put it oyer on old Doc Jones more than foronce, many's the time he's advised me to stay in bed. I watch him, when he comes all is snug, head on pillow, medicine, spoon and glass on a chair; but when he goes, do you think I am going to stay in bed if I don't want to? Any way he's getting sort of old fogish, don't do me much good mental when I do call him, guess I'llthe have to change." This peculiar him to think attitude which deludes individual, which leads the joke is on the doctor when he is disobeyed, and many others of similar character all tending to make the practice of medicine difficult and the results in any given case often unfortunate, is so prevelent that a frank exposition of the physician's viewpomt may prove beneficial. The practice of medicine began when the primal mother gave birth to the first child and has continued over since. It has kept pace with the dawn and growth of human advancement, sometimes outstripped by contemperaneous thought but more often abreast or in advance of its sister civilization. Leadmg itself readily to chicanery, deception and criminality because of its protean character. Dealing primarily with the material body, yet embracing, and I am half inclined to say even to a greater 574 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. extent, the spiritual, mental and psychical; all three being just beyond the mental grasp of the average in all ages have taken on a mystical significance which has covered with a cloak of glamor and ignorance those who pose as the interpreters of the unknown. Still it has drawn to itself and espoused the noblest spirits of all ages. At the very time it was wallowing in the sloughs of witch-craft, medicine men, potents, healing stones; while the altars of its temples were being defiled with the offerings of superstition, cupidity and cunning subterfuge, it still had its priest and prophets— men imbued with one thought only, the welfare and healing of the human race. Receiving inspiration and light from the true sun of science. Feeble and obscure the rays often were, but such as they were rays of truth. Medicine has her prophets, even as religion has hers, animated and inspired by the same undying spirit of service. Not however with the mournful cry: "Woe, woe, unto my people." But stretching forth hands pregnant with healing and with voices glad and joyful crying: "Hope, hope, for a new day doth dawn." Aesculapius, Hippocrates, Galan, Harvy, Hunter, Semmelweiss, Holmes, Simms, and many others stand in relation to the religion of the body even as Moses, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, David and the lesser prophets stand in relation to the religion of the soul. The erroneous idea that medicine has made little or no progress for ages seems very prevalent today. I wish to state possitively and without hope of serious contradiction that the practice of medicine has long since thrown off the swadling clothes of guess, and has established itself as a real science grounded on a foundation of incontrovertible truth. One need not go far afield in search of proofs to establish this fact. "But," someone says, "if this is true why do doctors differ?" Lawyers differ, statesmen differ, politicians differ, there is a wide difference of religious opinion, political economists differ, educators differ. An honest difference of opinion makes for healthy growth. For instance, Dr. A. makes a statement. Dr. B. says, "I can't accept that." Immediately they and their adherents begin a research to prove or disprove. The resultant work not only establishes A or vice versa, them both wrong, but often bring to light vast storehouses of knowledge, long hidden in obscurity which immediately become a source of great benefit to mankind. Doctors differ, but usually not on fundamentals. No physician will differ from his fellows on the efficacy of anti-toxin in diphtheria, vaccination as a preventative of small pox, immunization for typhoid fever, the cause and spread of malaria, yellow fever, syphilis, the need of surgery in gall stones, acute appendicitis, perforation of the stomach or intestines, the repain of LET THERE BE LIGHT 575 wounds and fractures or any other important fundamentl principle. Differences which arise are more often in connection with various Hues of treatment, particularly some of the newer forms being introduced. For instance, the profession as a whole is not a unit on the efficiency of some of the newer serums and vaccines; the tendency, however, is toward their more general use with better results as a whole. Another cause for difference is the personality, training, efificiency and courage of the man. A treats certain conditions along a given line, B's treatment may vary considerably, yet the net results may be about equal. A, however, could not use B's methods as well as his own neither could B get as good results with A's treatment, because his view point may not be the same, this does not mean that A would not accept B's line of treatment or vice versa if one or the other proved markedly superior. Because the story of the progress of medicine is almost wholly contained in technical papers and magazines and little spoken of in the lay press, many think that it is standing still. Nothing is farther from the truth. No modern science has advanced with such leaps and bounds in the last five decades as the science of internal medicine, that branch of medicine dealing more particularly with non-surgical conditions. And surgery, brilliant and life saving as are its victories, owes much of its success internal tomedicine.the helping hand extended' by its less spectacular sister, For instance, the discovery, classification, segregation of micro-organisms, so called germs. Tihink what this has meant io the human race. Less than a month ago, at a gathering, this subject was discussed and a lady present said one of the questions in her examination for graduation was, "what do you think of the germ theory of disease?" Within a very few decades doctors differed as to the part played by the microscopical world in the causation of disease. Going back farther, but still within a hundred years, germs as we know them were unheard of. Women in living-in hospitals died in woeful numbers from "child bed fever." This was so prevalent and disastrous that at times hospitals were burned down to get away from the "influence;" but the condition was only repeated. That the disease might be an infection was thought of as early as the latter part of the eighteenth century, but it remained for Ignatz Philip Semelweiss, in Vienna, 1847, and our own Oliver Wendell Holmes, 1848, to prove the infectious nature of the malady. And even then their proofs were not accepted generally. Semelweiss struggled with his opponents for fifteen years and died demented without recognition. When, however, Bretoneau, Pasteur, Knoch and Lister placed the germ 576 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. theory of disease on a scientific basis the worth of the work of Semelweiss and Holmes took on its real significance. Malaria was caused by a miasma rising with the mists and fog in damp, marshy localities. Typhus, yellow fever, the black death, typhoid were plagues sent from where no one knew. Today there is no mystery about them or most of their fellows, we know the cause of nearly all diseases, and with this knowledge are better able to combat them. Twenty-five years ago diphtheria was a scourge, families of five, six or even ten children carried off in a week or ten days. Often 60 to 80 percent of the children in a village died in eight or ten weeks. Can you imagine it, you who scoff at the progress of medicine? Look at your little ones, gather them around your knee and then picture, if you can, half or all of them dead at your feet. This has happened time and time again and the only reason it does not happen today, the only reason we do not see it now is because of the use of anti-toxin. Hydrophobia or rabies, anciently a curse of God, absolutely prevented by the Pasteur treatment if given in time. Tetanus, or lock jaw, one of the most terrible of deaths, prevented by the use of the anti-tetanic serum. Cerebro-spinal meningitis with a natural mortality rate of from 70 to 80 percent has been controlled by the injection of serum into the spinal column till the mortality is now reduced to one half or two thirds. Still high it is true, but nothing like it was before the introduction of the serum. Small pox, with its high death rate and horrible disfigurements' wiped out, that is wiped out among those who are vaccinated. Typhoid, the most costly of all modern diseases, has been conquered. Until the immunizing serum was discovered thousands upon thousands of the flower of earth succumbed to its ravages each year. It took men and women in their prime, stalking through the land a veritable symbol of the Grim Reaper, scythe in hand. In war its toll was appalling all other causes paling into insignificance. Take the records of two army divisions located about the same, water above suspicion, food and sanitation similar. The first is from the 2nd division, 7th army corps, before immunization was practiced. The second is from the Maneuver division which went into camp some years later, after vaccination became routine. There were 10,759 men in the 2nd division, there were 4,422 cases of typhoid fever with 248 deaths. The total number of deaths was 281, all but 33 dying of typhoid fever. Now glance at the record of the Maneuver division. There 12,659 men in camp, there was one light case of typhoid, in a teamster who had been only partially immunized. There were no typhoid deaths and the total number of deaths was eleven. Now this striking, LET THERE BE LIGHT 577 really marvelous difference was not due to sanitation as this detail in both camps was about the same, neither was it due to food, water, or personal hygiene. It was due entirely to the typhoid fever between the time of the Spanish-American war and the time that the Maneuver division took the field. Europe would have been decimated had we known no better how to control typhoid than duringprevious wars, up to and including the Spanish-American. With the bad sanitation, trench fighting, frightful congestion, immense numbers involved, lack of food, clothing and other necessities, the population of Europe, both militant and civil would have been practically wiped out. Thanks, however, to this giant stride in our fight against disease five thousand cases will more than cover the incidence of the disease. I asked an army surgeon if he knew the number of cases and he said he had not heard of one single case, this for the fouryear fighting period. We point with pride, and well we may, to the most wonderful engineering accomplishment of all time, the Panama canal. But it stands a monument not to mechanical skill and achievement, itstands a monument to the most interesting and successful chapter ever written in the annals of medicine. A chapter sprinkled with the blood of martyrs who freely and knowingly gave their lives to establish the truth of their belief. When the French failed to complete the project it was not for lack of funds, money could have been raised. It was not a lack of engineering foresight, competent engineers could have been provided. The fundamental cause of failure was yellow fever. The laborers shipped in, negroes from the neighboring islands, chinamen, etc., died sorapidly that their places could not be filled. This same condition confronted our government and had it not been for the research and discoveries made by the Commission of a Board of Army Medical Officers the Panama zone would be to day the inaccessible deadly wilderness it was when we took hold of it. This commission leaded by Dr. James Carroll and composed in addition of Drs. Jesse M. Lazear, Major Walter Reed and Aristides Agramonte, allowed themselves to be bitten by mosquitoes which had already bitten those ill with the disease. Dr. Carroll nealry died and Dr. Lazear, and Dr. Myers, an English physicia.i, both gave up their lives in their efforts to solve the important problem before them. But you say: "It was sanitation which made the canal a possibility." True, but holding a secondary place only. Medical research pure and simple discovered the cause of the disease and then controlled that cause with intelligently directed sanitation. Without this knowledge sanitation alone would not have been effective. One more example from the Arabian Nights of medicine. Less than fifteen years ago peritonitis was an ogre practically 578 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. undefeated. With or without surgery the percent mortality was disheartening-, the profession was more or less helpless when confronted with it, helpless but not inactive. Everywhe re research work was carried on and no stone was left unturned in an effort to solve the problem. It remained for Dr. John B. Murphy, one of the most brilliant minds of all times, to practically work out the solution. And simple as is the method the deductive analysis necessary to evolve it was by no means simple. Medicine is unique in its relation to life, it stands alone in the attitude of its devotees toward other human institutions. It is governed by a code of ethics which differs from all other codes because it is dealing with that which is more precious than all other things — life. Other professions, trades, institutions, deal with material things to a greater or lesser degree. A bank fails, many may be ruined; but money is only a part of life, it may be recovered, or failing in this we may do without much of it. A watchman is careless, thieves break in and steal, merchandise may be replaced. A fire wiped out an industry, it is re-built. And so with all or nearly all other human activity, not so with medicine. Mistakes, ignorance, carelessness, are costly in a fundamental way, life, health, happiness, hang in the balance. Therefore the weighty responsibility every physician feels resting on his soul: he senses to the full the necessity for proper preparation, training and equipment and he does not, as so many assume, view with unconcern the welfare of his patients. Furthermore he feels his work does not belong to himself, it belongs to mankind. After years of thought, toil, expense, a new thing is born into the world. It means much, it is valuable in dollars and cents, in other walks of life it is patented and the discoverer reaps the reward of his patient labor in tangible results. In medicine the discovery is given freely to the world, all are allowed to partake of it and the reward of the discoverer is the knowledge of a better, stronger humanity. When Roentgen discovered the X-ray it was given without hope of monetary reward. A description of the necessary apparatus, its working, etc., was prepared and sent to all the leading medical and scientific journals. A flood of light beyond all conception engulfed the world. Had he patented it, held it, doled it out, it would have meant millions untold, the thought was not even a temptation. The discovery of radium by the Curies is another example of unselfish devotion to mankind by medicine and its allied sciences. These are but instances of that which is occurring daily all over the world. The