A Whiff of Ether Lucy May Green
======================================================================

Whiff of Ether. Lucy May Green. The dreaded day had arrived at last, and Luella Warren was all ready to go to the hospital. For days past she had swept, scrubbed and dusted, cleaned the furniture and windows of her suburban bungalow, until every polished surface,shone, and not a speck of dust was visible anywhere, relying on huge cups of coffee, and many doses of her favorite remedies, to keep up her failing strength. Everything possible she had washed and ironed — clothing, curtains, centerpieces, and all. Even the lawn had been cut and watered and the flower borders raked and weeded. With her usual methodical preciseness she had laid out a change of clothing for Wallace, and the children, Ella, Irene and baby Don. "Have I left anything undone," she wondered as she waited. while Wallace got the car ready. A glimpse around her spotless pantry revealed a full bread can. The cooky jar was also well filled, a big pot of beans, and a baked mutton leg stood ready, while many shelves of bottled fruit and vegetables, preserves and pickles, bore mute evidence of her thrift and housewifely proficiency, Luella was indeed a first class housekeeper. Before marriage she had been a successful modiste and milliner, and she still found time to make and trim all her own and children's clothing and hats. Many long, weary hours were spent doing embroidery, tatting and crochet, to trim their dainty garments, for her especial pride was to see her children in their clean, white clothing, and often their aprons and dresses were changed two or three times in a day, thus making very heavy washing and ironing. In vain Wallace pleaded with her to send her wash to the laundry, but the work did not please her fastidious taste, so she continued to do it at home. Still Luella was neither well nor happy; she was always tired, ailing and nervous. Too tired to enjoy the confidences of the children or the conipanionship of her husband. Too ailing and weary to visit her friends, or attend the church gatherings, and too nervous to take any pleasure from their evening auto rides which Wallace and the children enjoyed so much. Luella hated to meet people, so she seldom attended Sunday school or Church, as the effort required to get Wallace and the children off was usually too much for her; besides, dinner must always be prepared. A WHIFF OF ETHER. 569 For months she had steadily grown thinner and weaker, utterly refusing to diet herself, or to employ any help, but keeping up a show of strength by the use of various medical nostrums and a copious use of stimulants. A fainting spell of unusual length had great alarmed Wallace who nerve specialist, into had 'phoning for that insisted Doctor LuellaSargent, should "the go as soon as possible to his private hospital for a thorough exambut the ination doctorand a month's rest. Luella dreaded that examination, was insistent. "Just a whiff of ether, and you will know nothing until it is all over," he assured her. Her sister had come to keep house, and as a cheery "all aboard" sounded from Wallace she.sorrowfully kissed her children goodby and was rapidly driven to the hospital. A week of perfect quiet and rest, with no visitors, was ordered, and while the long hours spent in bed in the cheerful, sunny room, and the simple nourishing diet did wonders for Luella's tired body, her nervous system suffered intensely without the usual stimulants, and many an anxious hour was spent in wondering whether her children's aprons were changed as often as usual and their stockings kept in repair. As a matter of fact, the youngsters were thoroughly enjoying a time of freedom from starched clothes, in suits of coveralls and barefoot sandals thoughtfully provided by careful Aunt Susie. Of Wallace, Luella thought little, for matters had almost reached a breaking point between them owing to her constant complaining of nerves and ill health, and his apparent lack of sympathy and appreciation of her housewifely efforts. At the end of her week's rest Luella was prepared for the operating room, and with a sinking heart was wheeled into the presence of the great doctor for her ordeal of examination and a possible operation. In a few moments she was made ready, the mask was adjusted, a few whiffs of ether and then oblivion. For a long time, ages it seemed, Luella was afraid to open her eyes, all was darkness and mystery, a strange dizziness held her captive. As the clouds gradually dispersed she heard a stern voice speaking — "Here is a poor, ignorant mortal who has wandered from afar. Take her in charge until she learns the needed lessons of life. Then, if she so desire it, restore her to her home and family, that she may complete her earthly mission. If not-—" "Mortal! follow me," commanded a gentle voice, and Luella opened her eyes, and followed her white-robed companion into room a large lined with shelves from floor to ceiling. On the shelves stood all kinds of bottles of patent medicines, pills and powders, huge packages of coffee and tea, after case of coca cola, beer, wine and spirits. On a counter stood boxes of face powder, rouge and hair tonic, while a monster dish of lobster 570 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. salad and a countless array of sundaes a la mode, and rich pastries filled the small tables scattered around. "This is a drug store," said the woman musing — "why bring' me here?" she questioned her kindly guide. "It is indeed a 'drug' store," he replied, "look well around here, for now begins your first lesson. See the many boxes of pills contained in this case, rank poison all of them, yet you have swollowed everyone; first you have overloaded your digestive organs with too much rich, greasy food; then you have cheerfully swallowed the nostrums recommended in the glaring advertisementfe of these curealls, and the pills themseves. "Here are your favorite headache and neuralgia tablets, deadly narcotics one and all. Yonder see your bracers, bromides, coca cola — in other words chains with which you have steadily bound yourself." "But my nerves," began the thoroughly scared woman, "I can never keep up with my work without some medicine." "Your constitution has been steadily undermined by the constant use of stimulants and drugs. Your skin has become thick, and your complexion and hair are almost ruined by the use of so many so called beautifiers, which, if you only knew, contain much arsenic and mercury. Your appetities have become strong chains of habit which have forged themselves around you, and your children will also inherit your likings and tendencies and they, too, will suffer. "Look well around you, mortal, all that is contained in this room has been taken into your body. See those pounds of coffee, those quarts of wine and spirits, those pills and powders. No monk of medieval times ever tortured his body more than you have yours. You and you alone are responsible for the desecration of your body which should be the temple of the Holy Ghost." Luella gave one wild look around, and sank to the ground in an agony of remorse, as she realized the truth of the terrible accusation. "I am dead," she murmured, "and surely this Is hell."Eternities seemed to pass as she wandered through dark byways, carrying a heavy realization of her guilt, until suddenly a ray of living light appeared, a passage of scripture from a lesson of her childhood crossed her mind which said, "Call upon Me in the day of thy trouble, and I will deliver thee." "It is all true, oh, Father in heaven," she cried, while the tears of repentance coursed down her cheeks, "I am guilty, but, if it is not too late, may I not have one more chance— deliver me from this burden of folly, in the name of Jesus—" As she whispered the sacred name, a sudden buoyancy A WHIFF OF ETHER. 571 seemed to possess her, and as the burden rolled awav a kindly hand clasped her, and her former guide appeared. "You have learned your first lesson well, and your second is ready," he announced, and Luella followed him into what apby. peared to be a chapel. An immense mirror hung over the platform, while soft music came from an invisible instrument near "Here you may look and listen," said her companion. "You have shown evidence of repentance, now profit by what you shall see and hear." As she gazed into the shining depths of the mirror, she saw herself as she had been, a household drudge alone, her husband wandering afar for companionship denied him at home, her children growing up selfish, nervous and greedy. Her friends scattered and herself without hope, either in this world or the future. Then a wonderful change of scene appeared. For she saw now a happy home, a contented, healthy wife and mother, a satisfied husband, kindly neighbors and friends, and loving imselfish children. She counted them, six lovely girls and a number of handsome, stalwart sons. "But I have only three," she whispered, "Can this be possible." "All this is possible," said the voice at her side, "and much more. The choice is in your hands, choose — " "But my neuralgia and constipation," she replied timidly, "Will be cured by correct living," the voice answered. "A diet of fresh fruit and many vegetables with plenty of nuts and raisins will cause your bodily organs to function naturally, and your constipation will soon be overcome. This accomplished, your neuralgia and headaches will cease, and your nervous disorders will becom.e a thing of the past. Listen to the word of the Lord, 'Whosoever among you are sick, and have not faith to be healed, but believe, .shall be nourished with all tenderness, with herbs and mild foods. And the elders of the Church shall be called, and shall pray and lay hands upon them, in My name. * * * and if they live, they shalt live unto Me.' "Thou shalt live together in love, "Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things * * * And shalt go to the house of prayer and oflFer up thy sacraments upon my holy day * * * that thy joy may be full. And inasmuch as ye will do these things, with thanksgiving — with a glad countenance * * * the fulness of the earth is yours. Yea for food and raiment, for taste and smell, to strengthen the body, and to enliven the soul. Can you — will you believe all these things?" "I do believe, and I am willing to try," breathed the repentant woman, as her second lesson ended. 572 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Remember your experience here; profit by the instructions given, and all may yet be well with you," warned her guide in parting". An open book was now placed in Luella's hands, and she read with a wonderful new understanding its sacred admonitions, warnings and promises. The final verses of a most remarkable chapter impressed her deeply. "And all Saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to these commandments, shall have health in their navel, and marrow in their bones, and shall find wisdom, and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures, and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint — and I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel and not slay them." Hark! a voice Avas calling her name, a voice insistent, well loved. "If you will keep the word of wisdom and remain faithful to your covenants, your bodily health and vigor shall be restored, your mind shall be strengthened. The Spirit of the Lord shall be your guide and companion, and your testimony of the gospel shall increase, these blessings shall be yours, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen." As the sacred blessing ended, Luella Warren opened her eyes in the hospital room, and was received into the loving embraces of her husband and children. Her dream was over. RELIEF SOCIETY SCHOOL OF OBSTETRICS AND NURSING, 1919-1920. The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing will begin its fifteenth year Monday, October 6, 1919, fourth floor. Bishop's Building. Term, eight months. This course consists of studies in anatomy and general instruction innursing, emphasizing Home Care of the Sick, with practical demonstrations in Invalid Cooking. First Aid Work, Hydrotherapy, Sterilization, and lectures on Elementary Hygiene, Public Health, Contagious Diseases, Drugs and Solutions, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases. These lecture courses are given periodically and will be given by prominent physicians, surgeons and other specialists. Each student of this course will be required to do at least fifty hours of practical field work during the term, under the direction of the school. Tuition, $25.00 cash, thirty days service charity nursing. Tuition to be paid and contracts to be signed upon registration. For further information, address Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. ON THE WATCHTOWER. 605 The league of nations peace treaty was reported from the U. S. Senate committee early in September, with a number of changes. Servia and Rumania both were defiant of the commands of the entente allies regarding Hungary, at the beginning of September. An Eastern Europe alliance was in process of incubation in Italy, Austria, Germany, the Balkan states and parts of Russia, in September. A CONVOCATION of capital, labor, and agricultural interests, has been called by President Wilson to meet in Washington October 5 to 10. Germany is accused of violating the peace treaty already, in admitting representatives from German Austria into its legislative body, under its constitution. Thirty Governors of states met in convention in Salt Lake City in August, and discussed various questions of national interest. The U. S. Government ofifered a lot of food supplies for sale in August, but only small quantities were purchased in Utah owing to the price. Sixty-Two French "war brides" who came to the United States returned to France in August, being dissatisfied with their treatment here. Taxes in Utah, both from increased valuations and from increased levies, are heavier on the people in 1919 than at any previous time in history. Strikes in various parts of the United States, including Utah, continued during August, with promise of increased disturbances therefrom during September. England is being agitated by efiforts of ministers of various denominations to bar "Mormon" missionaries, and many falsehoods are being circulated to gain that end. Turkey is very much dissatisfied over losing Syria and Mesopotamia; but the present trend of international afifairs is not toward pleasing the "unspeakable Turk" as a rtiler. 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Mexican bandits captured two American aviators in August, and obtained $7,500 ransom for their release. U. S. Troops crossed the Rio Grande and killed a number of bandits. In Ireland, during August, there were several violent and bloody clashes over the Irish question. But little news of the occurrences there reaches this part of the world. President Wilson announced that he would be in Utah on September 23, on his tour on behalf of the league of nations. He started from Washington on September 4. Hungary changed its government twice in August, but the entente allies are yet unsatisfied therewith, and insist that no member of the Hapsburg dynasty shall have a ruling position. High cost of living, due largely to profiteering and loss of production through strikes and shortened hours of labor, was brought closely to the attention of the President and Congress in August. Union of churches including the Protestant and Greek Catholic churches is being favorably considered in Europe, but there is no prospect of their joining with the Roman Catholic church. The Washington administration plans a standing army of over 500,000 men for the United States — four times as great as before the war — and the compulsory training of 19-year-old youths. Justice L. Brandeis, of the U. S. Supreme Court, has returned from Palestine, and is enthusiastic over the improved conditions there and the prospect of the land being re-occupied by the Jews. Senator Reed Smoot of Utah made a very explicit statement of his reasons for wanting reservations in the league of nations part of the treaty with Germany, in a letter written to Utah in August. The "daylight-saving" law was repealed over President Wilson's veto on August 20, and after October 31, timepieces and their owners in the United States, will be saved the jarring of semi-annual changing gears. The Utah Legislature was called by Gov. Bamberger ON THE WATCHTOWER. 607 to meet in special session on September 29, one of the chief reasons therefore being to ratify the woman's suffrage amendment to the national Constitution. An anti-tobacco movement is growing apace in the United States. It is being given force by smokers intruding their offensive habit into elevators and other such places, to the annoyance of non-smokers. Farmers' associations throughout the United States advised Congress in August that one way of reducing the high living cost is to end "the war laws and go back to pre-war conditions of administration." J. Reuben Clark, a Utah man who has gained distinction as an international lawyer, made an address analyzing the league of nations treaty in Salt Lake City, on September 3, the big tabernacle being filled by an interested audience. Chaplain B. H. Roberts delivered an eloquent and lengthy answer to Mr. Clark's argument on Sept. 8, the audience being large and enthusiastic. Both sides of this question were thus presented to the people. Race riots between negroes and whites, in Chicago, in August, resulted in 30 deaths, hundreds of people injured, and much property destroyed. Troops quelled the riots there, as they did at Knoxville, Tenn., on August 30, with a number of fatalities. A big railway strike, the most damaging section of which was in California, occurred in the United States in the latter part of August, and was terminated by President Wilson's decision that if the railway employees would not run the trains the government would do so. United States Senator Knox, whose long and able service in public life have earned him a reputation for wise farsightedness in international affairs, advocates a separate peace treaty with Germany as the safest course for the United States at the present time. Clay Price, prominent newspaper correspondent, sends this word from Jerusalem in August: "It is not generally understood among non-Moslem peoples that Moslems believe Christ, not Mohammed, is to return as Judge of the world at the Last Day, and that the Judgment will take place, not in Mecca, but in Jerusalem." EDITORIAL  Motto — Charity Never Faileth: THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells...... President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams..... First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith...... Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman..... General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates..... Recording Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey....... Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie Miss Edna May Davis Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor........ Susa Young Gates Business Manager....... Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager...... Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VI. OCTOBER, 1919. 

 THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS. The one burning issue before the American people today ? as well as before all the allied peoples ? is the League of Nations, which has been knit up with the Peace Pact. Many think them one and the same thing ? but that is erroneous. However, President Wilson thus holds them together, and so do the other signatory powers. The League of Nations may be all that its supporters claim that it is? it may be all that its opponents assert that it isn't. This is a matter of individual opinion. There are prominent and beloved leaders amongst this people who differ vitally on this question ? as do the people; but let the women of this Church act and think and talk as Latter-day Saints should ? and not demean themselves nor give way to foolish and even wicked feelings and words. Consider two vital points connected with this matter! First, then: Politics are merely men's opinions as to how the government of a city, state or nation shall be shaped or conducted. One man thinks a high tariff is good policy, and his neighbor is sure that a low tariff, or none at all, is the best policy for the nation. One man thinks that Democratic policies are best, another feels that the Republican plans are safest. These are merely men's opinions. Sometimes, however, questions of policy have sterner values than mere tariff or coinage questions ? as, for instance, the question of State's Rights, which led to the Civil War. Yet, even in that we must give our