Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson
======================================================================

Arsareth. A Story of the Lost Ten Tribes.
The following document, sent to us by John Bringingham, is printed for what it is worth. We do not know John Bringingham. He, himself, he claims, wrote the title and the subtitle which he calls "A Story of the Lost Ten Tribes." We surmise that the hero of the tale, Lon Merton, originated in the brain of John Bringingham, and that this latter gentleman and sailor beguiled the long hours of waiting in Spitzbergen by composing the story himself. We do not know this, we have only our strong suspicions. At any rate, the story makes most interesting and instructive reading, and that is reason enough for its publication.— Nephi Anderson.
INTRODUCTION.
I have just returned from a trip to Spitzbergen, the group of islands lying well into the Arctic ocean north of Europe. I have been in the employ of an American company interested in developing the coal deposits of those islands. The season was late when we were through with our business, and just as we emerged from Advent Bay on our return trip, we were caught in a storm, driven northward along the west coast of Prince Charles Foreland until we met a big ice field in which we were caught. For three months we drifted about in the ice before we finally got free and again into the open sea. During this time we had many thrilling experiences which it is not my purpose to set down here. Only as pertains to the accompanying manuscript does this present writing concern itself.
One day when we had been held close to land for some time we ventured out to see if we might find some game. On a small, wind-swept plateau, we found the remains of a large aeroplane. We dug the broken parts out of the snow. Men or any 562 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. signs of human beings were nowhere to be seen. That the plane had fallen not so long ago was evident. We uncovered some tools, and found a wicker box containing remnants of food; also we found a small package, well wrapped in a sort of waterproof cloth. We carried some of these findings back to the ship. On unwrapping the package under the light of the cabin lamp, we found a roll of manuscript written on an ordinary note book, such as we used to have in school. The ink on the first part of the manuscript was beginning to fade. Water had also reached parts of it. We read it during the long periods of inactivity to which we were forced. And as time hung heavily on my hands I undertook to copy the whole story on the ship's paper. I followed the author word for word where that was possible. I corrected some of the spelling and did not copy his glaring grammatical errors; but as a whole, my manuscript is a near duplicate of the original. When this work was completed, I had aroused in me a renewal of my love for the reading of the Bible. I had always been quite a student of the Scriptures, but lately I had neglected my reading. Now, however, aroused by this strange manuscript story, I read again my Bible, especially those parts bearing on the House of Israel and the tribes which had been lost to the world. I found frequent references in the prophets to the tribes of Israel being driven to the "North lands," from whence they should some day return. One particular part of the apocryphal book of II Esdras, thirteenth chapter, attracted me as having a bearing on the lost tribes, and it is from that passage that I took a name which I used in the heading to this narrative. Here is the passage:
"And whereas thou sawest that He gathered another peaceable people unto him.
"Those are the Ten Tribes which were carried away captive out of their own land in the time of Oseas the King whom Salmanaser the King of the Assyrians took captive, and crossed them beyond the river; so they were brought into another land.
"But they took this counsel to themselves, that they would leave the multitude of the heathen, and go forth unto a further country where never man dwelt.
"That they might there keep their statutes, which they never kept in their own land.
"And they entered in at the narrow passage of the River Euphrates.
"For the Most High then showed them signs, and stayed the springs of the flood till they were passed over.
"For through the country there was a great journey, even of a year and a half, and the same region is called Arsareth.
"Then dwelt they there until the latter time, and when they BEYOND ARSARETH. 563 come forth again, the Most High shall hold still the springs of the river again that they may go through; therefore sawest thou the multitude peaceable."
The whereabouts of the so-called lost Ten Tribes, I know, has been a matter of much speculation and conjecture. Why could not this narrative solve the problem? But did not Captain Cook say he reached the North Pole, as also Lieut. Peary? and they found no such people or conditions as here described. Admitting all this, there is still a possibility that what this Lon Merton tells us is true. If the reader will examine a map of the polar regions marked with all that explorers have done, he will see there is yet a vast stretch lying between the Pole and the northern coast of Siberia marked "Unexplored Region," measuring a thousand miles across; so much for the possibilities. For the rest, the public will have to take the account which I have named "Beyond Arsareth" for what it is worth.
Another comment which just occurs to me. The great World War is over; but strife and contention and wickedness among nations, as well as among individuals, are not, by any means, over. Is it not possible that if the so-called civilized world is ready to fall to its destruction, that there is held in reserve a people, made pure and strong by a long period of training amid the poverty of the North country, isolated from the vanities and the wealth of the world— a people which, in the "nick of time," shall come to the rescue of the world?
Signed: John Bringingham.
The sun has at last gone down for good, has sunk below the horizon, to stay there for five long months. For days it has been near the hills, circling around and around, falling nearer to the horizon at every revolution. But yesterday it was behind the hills all day, only showing itself for an hour through the low place in the southern hills. The people were all out, bidding it farewell, and a din they did make, as they shouted in choruses their parting salutes, wishing their warm friend a pleasant journey and a safe return to them. But today the sun is gone, though it is as light as day. Continually, the grayness of sundown will gradually deepen into dark as the sun sinks away from us to the more favored lands to the South. So goodby, sun, for another, cold, and dark winter night.
Yes; come again to me also, and bring with you warmth and light of soul and heart as well as the warmth that quickens the body and the light that gladdens the eye! I am beginning this writing by the light that is yet in the sky; but after a time I shall have to trim and light my lamp, and 564 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. keep it burning continually during my waking hours. I must have good light for this work. I can see that, for my writing must be small and I must put as much as possible of it on my paper. My only blank book is not very large, and if this account ever reaches the world proper and is made known to the inhabitants thereof, the printer who sets it into type will have to look carefully, and on both sides of the paper at that. How much I shall write, I cannot now tell — it may be before I get through, I may spin out quite a story. I have material enough, goodness knows! From my open window I look out over this land of the north. It is the month of September down in what I yet call home, and I know that if the winter season is early, the trees are about bare of leaves, the grass is brown, and the air is sharp and cold. That is just about what it is here. I can see from my second-story room, the bare fields, stretching away from the houses near at hand to the houses in the distance. The birch and the willow have lost 'their leaves; and the fir, its brightness. In the dim distance the haze of autumn blends with the grayness of departing day; yet there is no hush as in other climes at such a time. There is yet life and animation over all this land, and this activity will not cease until the last of the sunlight departs from the sky; yet, even then, the energy is only changed in form and not permitted to lie dormant. The children are playing in the yard below — I hear their merry laughter as I write, and I pause to look down at them. As they see me looking from the window, they greet me with shouts, and little Rachel throws me a tuft of green. Her aim is sure, and it alights on my open book. It is a bunch of mignonette. Iput the little boquet in a cup of water, and its fragrance fills the room, mingling with the sweet odor of a bunch of liliesof-the-valley. I have been Jiere in the Land of the North Pole now nearly five years; but until the present I have not felt able to set down in writing the things that I have seen and heard. I now understand the language of the people well enough to get along, and so I think this winter I shall write out my history as pertains to how I came here, what I have seen and heard and done. Whether or not any living soul will ever read these lines rests entirely with the providences of the Lord; but I feel that it is my duty to do this much at any rate. I am writing this, as I have stated before, on a blank book which I brought with me, with my fountain pen filled with ink made and used in this land; but perhaps now I'd better start at the beginning of my account, and tell of things in the order of their happening. {To he continued.)