Unusual Mothers. M. MELISSA SUMMERHAYS. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. M. Melissa Sumnierhays, daughter of Joshua Parker and Drucilla Hartley, was born at Kanesville, Pottawattamie County, Iowa, May 21, 1852. That same year her parents crossed the plains. They settled in the Sixteenth ward, in which ward Melissa was reared. At the time of the "Move," being then five years of age, she went South with her parents and remained there until Johnston's Army passed through Salt Lake City en route to Camp Floyd, when they came back to their home in the Sixteenth ward. On June 27, 1870, she was married in the Endowment House to Joseph William Summerhays, and is the mother of sixteen children — nine girls and seven boys. Her sons have performed seven missions as follows: To England, to, the Southern States, Samoa, Switzerland. Germany and France, and she now has one son who is serving his country with the United States Expeditionary forces, in France. In 1892 she removed to the Forest Dale ward of the Granite stake in which ward she now resides. She was a member of the Relief Society in the 16th ward and has been a member of and a teacher in the Relief Society in the Forest Dale ward ever since it was organized. Her special mission in the ward in which she now lives is to visit the sick and to administer to the sisters who expect to become mothers. In talking with her about her life's labors, her desires and aspirations, she stated that above all other things she was thankful for, was the gospel, and for the comifort and consolation that is brought to her. She said that she knew that the gospel was true and that in her weak way she had been trying to keep the com- 334. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. niandments of God. in doing whoch she found unspeakable consolation. Notwithstanding Melissa is now 66 years of age, and has had sixteen children, she is a well preserved woman and her dark hair shows very few gray hairs. EVANGELINE DUNN HUNSAKER. MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN. Evangeline Dunn Hunsaker is the mother of seventeen children. Great has been her mission here on earth and well and faithfully has she performed the same. She was born September 12. 1853. in ^Brigham City, meon L'tah. A. Dunn,Her was father. Sione of the first settlers of Brigham City, and lived in the old fort, together with President Lorenzo Snow and others.