[Vol56 | July 1969 | Page 504 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
502 —Elizabeth Russell Calgary, Alberta, Canada ~ Woman's Sphere a Ramona W. Cannon Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith of the First Presidency of the Church, has been honored by many student organizations and other groups of young people. A noted singer and beloved exemplary woman, her addresses and her singing have delighted collegiate and Church audiences. In April 1969, she was given a citation as an ''Ideal Woman"' by the Latter-day Saint co-eds at Utah State University, Logan, Utah. The subject of the meeting was ''The Eternal Quest of Womanhood,'' and Sister Smith addressed the young women, ame a solo, and participated in the music presented by a special chorus. Also, in April, Sister Smith was honored by Weber State College in the tabernacle, Ogden, Utah. President E. Lamar Buckner said that her visit was the highlight of the year, and that her singing thrilled everyone present. ''We are so grateful for your spirit of dedication,' he said. ''We want you to know that you hold a spot in our hearts, and we shail always be grateful to you for being with us.'' Sister Smith spoke of the young women as diamonds in a diadem of crown jewels, advising them to make a careful selection of the jewels for their crowns. Mrs. Evelyn LeTourneau, sixty-eight, of Longview, Texas, wife of industrialist-inventor Robert LeTourneau and mother of four sons and one daughter, was named American Mother of the Year in Los Angeles, California, last May. She was chosen, in part, because she lovingly extended her role of motherhood to students: the Winona Bible Camp groups she established in seven boys' ranches across the country and the student body of the LeTourneau Institute of Technology in Longview. Mrs. Elizabeth Peterson McKay, a seventy-two-year-old Latter-day Saint woman from Ogden, became Utah's Mother of the Year. She was left a widow with four sons and four daughters from one to sixteen years of age and through the heroic efforts of all, the children received excellent educations and have become distinguished members of Church and community. She is a woman of talents, sterling character, and refinement. Mrs. Edna C. Karlinsey, wife of Curtlee J. Karlinsey, Tacoma, Washington, a schoolteacher and mother of seven children, represented the State of Washington as Mother of the Year. An active Latter-day Saint, she has encouraged and assisted her children in attending college and serving missions for the Church. Her talents in teaching, oil painting, and homemaking are outstanding. Mrs. Jessie Lamb Stewart of Las Vegas, Nevada Mother of the Year, now a widow, reared four motherless children in addition to her own eight sons and daughters. A devoted Latter-day Saint, she has held numerous offices and teaching assignments in Relief Society. She assisted her husband in managing a large ranch and in raising cattle and thoroughbred horses. She is active in community affairs and in politics. A chorus of Singing Mothers from the Los Angeles area, directed by Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society, provided music for the Awards Luncheon on May 12th. Many of the 1969 Mothers visited Salt Lake City following the convention in California and were entertained by the Church and by Relief Society. President Belle S. Spafford is second vice-president of the American Mothers Association. 503 EDITORIAL / TO EACH IS GIVEN A GIFT For all have not every gift given unto them; for there are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God. (D&C 46:11.) (Italics added.) m In his loving-kindness God allows each person to come into the world possessing in his soul embryo gifts to be used and developed as one's free agency determines. While man's mind is veiled from a remembrance of his pre-mortal life, some of the seeds of his accomplishments there are born into mortality with him. The Father expects life to bring joy to his children. He prepares them for such joy by giving them the gifts with which to acquire it. One of the essential requirements of the Giver of Gifts is that the gift be used for the benefit of others ''that all may be profited thereby."' (D&C 46:12.) The use of these precious gifts selfishly, for personal gain alone is not the purpose for which they are given. The intention of the Lord is that gifts be magnified for the building of the kingdom. The rewards of such increase are that the gifts will be added upon. No one, we are told, lives to his fullest potential. Always there are greater goals to conquer. Efforts to reach that potential are crowned with the increased desire to do more and progress further. Gifts are to be sought. The prophets exhort the people to ''covet earnestly the best gifts."" (I Cor. 12:31.) The blessings of spiritual growth are contingent upon asking in faith for one or more of the gifts. Proficiency is to be gained by personal effort and constant prayer to God to bless those efforts. Gifts are many and varied. They encompass gifts of knowledge and understanding of gospel doctrine given by the Holy Ghost to talents in culture areas. Talents are given in music, literature, and art, in Volume 56 July 1969 Number 7 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Mittenberger, Acting SecretaryTreasurer 504 the realms of medicine, in aptitudes in educational pursuits, in the fields of engineering, and agriculture. The gifts are as diverse as the ability to love all of God's creations, a cheerful spirit, friendliness. To some is given the gift of leadership, to others the gift of following, not blindly but understandingly. Some are the lawgivers, the wise and Sagacious, others are the workers who uncover the secrets of nature. Some possess gifts that even they do not suspect until they are brought to light by obedience to commandments. Some gifts are never discovered because they are not sought. There are those who resist the disciplines the development of a talent requires. They will not accept the responsibility bestowed with the gift to work toward its fulfillment. The potential for greatness ts there but as a fallow field lies unused and dormant, idle in the sun, its potential for growth and production curtailed, so lie buried talents the owners fail to enlarge.
