[Vol56 | July 1969 | Page 526 | Fiction | Just a Dab of Butter Lena | Mae Hansen]
When the three sisters, Gwen, Mary, and Maggie made the final decision, they knew there were still problems to be solved. Getting Gwen's three lively boys settled at Maggie's would entail planning and cajoling. Telephoning Mary's husband in New York about the change of plans was going to take some diplomacy. The real problem was getting their mother out of the hospital and then getting her comfortably and safely back home. The plan was simple on the surface. Gwen would go to Cedar Mesa on the plane with their mother. Maggie would keep Gwen's children, and Mary would drive down by car first to get the home ready for the mother's homecoming.

Gwen was washing the boys' play clothes, mending overalls, and folding and packing their Sunday clothes. She had a batch of bread in the oven. The baby's bed would be taken to Maggie's later. The trip would probably take four or five days, so she must leave plenty of clothes for the children. Gwen hoped she could get a batch of cookies made to take to Maggie. It would be with hardest on Maggie—what with four youngsters of her own—and she did look a little peaked lately. Gwen had wanted to get a baby sitter but Maggie had insisted on having the three little boys come to her place.

Maggie had begun to carry out necessary plans, too. She had made room for Gwen's baby bed in the family room. Hy could set up two army cots in the boys' room. She would move her own baby bed into their bedroom. That way, everyone would be comfortable. She would make stew for the boys and maybe set some jello for dessert. Even thinking about food made her squeamish. You'd think after four babies.... She hadn't told her sisters about her pregnancy. She knew what Gwen would say, "Well, that settles it! I am going to get Jane to come over."

Mary was not looking forward to these eight hours of steady driving to Cedar Mesa. It had been nearly ten years since she had driven down that road—ten years of a successful career, and, she admitted wryly to herself, ten years of unsuccessful marriage. And the telephone conversation with James last night had not helped. She knew she had been too brisk, too impersonal on the phone, but habit was hard to break.

"James, Mother is well enough to leave the hospital... Oh, she's fine. She said to tell you hello and she would like to see you... Oh. Yes. Well, Gwen will go down with Mother on the plane. Maggie will keep Gwen's children, and I am leaving in the morning for Cedar Mesa to get the house ready.... Why? Well, I have no ties to keep me home."

When James asked "Mary, are you coming back here?" she had answered, "I don't know, James."

His "Well, suit yourself" was as cold as her "Goodbye, James."

Mary's hands tightened on the wheel. She had not let herself think of the marriage. That is, not until she had accepted the position with the publishing company. James had not objected, then. As she became successful in her work and spent more time at it, James became resentful. He objected when she spent the summer in Europe for the firm.

Why couldn't he accept her success? The house was fine and the cook served better meals than Mary could prepare. She had tried to get close to James again, to get their marriage on an even keel. But now it was a cool neutrality. She was not sure that she wanted to go back to New York—especially since she had stayed in Gwen's comfortably furnished home with its confusion and love. And in the shabby, bulging home where Maggie was a lovely and beloved wife and mother.

It was not until Mary came to the Colorado River that she threw off her unhappy mood and began to notice the spectacular scenery. She still missed the narrow, colorful, trestle bridge which had spanned the river when she was a girl, however the sheer red cliffs were still blazing in the sun, their dark shadows darker still because of the intense sun-glare of their lacquered surfaces.

She slowed down to catch glimpses of her favorite places. Here was the famous fault that her geology professor had told the class about. There was the little meadow where the five quaking aspens grew—and there they were! But they were taller, with their golden leaves twinkling in the sunlight.

She glanced at the familiar