[Vol56 | July 1969 | Page 554 | General Feature |  | Alberta H. Christensen]
[Alberta H. Christensen]

He wrote, "On the basis of this melody will develop the resurrection of the Czech people, its future happiness and glory." 554 INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON At its most basic level, man's freedom to choose, his "agency" is fundamental to all that he does. We are told in 2 Ne. 2:26 that the redemption of Christ makes men "... Free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon." The selections which we are considering this month help us appreciate the range of choices we can exercise in establishing meaningful concepts of liberty. "THE HIND AND THE PANTHER" John Dryden's lines from his long poem entitled "The Hind and the Panther" emphasize the danger of trying to coerce others into a belief which matches our own: The Hind and the Panther Of all the tyrannies of human kind The worst is that which persecutes the mind. Let us but weigh at what offence we strike, "Tis but because we cannot think alike. In punishing of this we overthrow The laws of nations and of nature too. Beasts are the subjects of tyrannic sway, When still the stronger on the weaker prey; Man only of a softer mould is made, Not for his fellows' ruin but their aid; Created kind, beneficent and free, The noble image of the Deity. The final line of this excerpt— with its echo of Genesis 1:27— is intended to make explicit what has already been hinted at throughout the poem: only that man who remembers in whose image he is made can be expected to understand that Lesson Department coerced freedom of conscience is neither necessary nor beneficial. John Dryden (1631-1700) was one of the most versatile of English poets. He seemed to be at home in dramatic, satiric, narrative, and didactic poetry. He was also one of the greatest of English translators and one of the most accomplished writers of English prose. In 1686 Dryden was converted to Roman Catholicism and "The Hind and the Panther," his most famous religious poem, is a defense of his new faith. The Hind apparently represents the Roman Catholic Church, while the Panther stands for the Church of England. Discussion Question If most of us know that man "convinced against his will is of the same opinion still," why do we still try to force conformity? "THE INDISPENSABLE OPPOSITION" Walter Lippmann (1889) was a member of the famous Class of 1910 at Harvard University. Since his graduation, he has had a distinguished career as a journalist, editor, and author. For members of the Church, Mr. Lippmann's insistence on the necessity of opposition strikes an immediately responsive chord. In the second chapter of 2 Nephi we find the following lines: For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad. (2 Ne. 2:11.) In reading Lippman's "The Indispensable Opposition" we 

555 July 1969

 must distinguish at once between that opposition which stems from mere contentiousness and that opposition which is creative. The Book of Mormon warns us against contention in the eleventh chapter of 3 Nephi, verse 29: For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another. One of the cues as to what is essentially wrong with contention is given in the phrase "with anger." Too often our opposition is expressed in emotional, exaggerated charges and counter-charges. In such a statewe are not receptive to the whisperings of the Spirit. The Holy Ghost is not able to penetrate the wall of strong feeling which we have erected. We haven't ears to hear the truth. A dispute is not even a detour toward truth; it becomes an end in itself, a dead end. We quickly become less concerned with finding answers than we are in winning arguments. How rarely anyone is listening in an argument. We wait impatiently while our opponent speaks so we can stun him with our side as soon as he finishes. The opposition Mr. Lippmann - finds "indispensable" has little to do with mere disputation. Rather, it is the presentation and consideration of alternatives that test and refine our own beliefs. Truth has nothing to fear from error and _ since the very word "definition" suggests pointing out that something is not as well as what it is, we can focus and sharpen 556 our perceptions by contrast as well as comparison. It must be remembered, however, that Mr. Lippmann is talking primarily about secular truth. That to which the Spirit has testified to us is not illuminated by error. Discussion Question How can we usually tell when a fruitful discussion is turning into a fruitless disputation? "WHAT IS LIBERTY?" Woodrow' Wilson, twentyseventh President of the United States, in his essay "What is Liberty" presents an attractive picture of a harmonious society in which each part is adjusted to and balanced against every other one. It is important to remember, in reacting positively to such a concept, that such an adjustment might be temporarily attained where the basis for the social group is almost wholly evil, that' is, men are mere cogs in a machine. "ANIMAL FARM" George Orwell's "Animal Farm" is a convincing and devastating satire on a communist attempt to make "all animals equal." There are few endings in English fiction as effective as the concluding paragraph of this novel. What is most heartrending is that, to the exploited animals who are gazing in astonishment at the violent argument going on between the pigs and men, whatever the outcome of the arguments, they are the TO RELIEF SOCIETY AND Sj Tel. 277-7331 OTHER CHORISTERS: Certainly, you are well advised to strive to raise the cultural tevel of your group by using the songs of Schubert, Brahms, or others of the Masters whenever you can. But if You fail to find the precise message you want to convey— welcoming home a_ returning missionary, honoring the Visiting Teachers, celebrating a temple marriage, or exhorting to genealogical and temple work, praising the Relief Society Organization, or dozens of other UNIQUELY L. D.

S. Messages, — we suggest you consult our catalog of SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS, written by Mormons to fill such special needs. Why not order enough catalogs for all the wards in your stake? They're FREE. Write to 1365 East 4800 South St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84117 Ypeceal Occaston Songs Vilate R. McAllister, Prop. New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's 'first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and2 _..55 -Zone5 _~__-_~- - oe60 Zone6 __.- - — e65 Zone7 _~__-_~- Zone8__ _ _1.05 __ 7 PESERET FREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Lesson Department real losers. Tyranny, finally, always wears the same _ face and has the same victims. Discussion Question What is the basic difference between the harmony and adjustment we seek in an organization such as the Relief Society and that sought after in the grouping described in "Animal Farm''? OTHER POEMS Poems by Henry David Thoreau and James Oppenheim stress the importance of peace of mind and personal integrity in the meaning we can individually give to liberty. Of course we must understand that the Latter-day Saint definition of liberty is in accord with the Lord's definition of liberty. Thoreau's "Independence" is as follows: My life more civil is and free Than any civil polity. Ye Princes, keep your realms and circumscribed power, Not wide as are my dreams, Nor rich as is this hour. What can ye give which I have not? What can ye take which I have got? Can ye defend the dangerless? Can ye inherit nakedness? To all true wants Time's ear is deaf, Penurious States lend no relief Out of their pelf: But a_ free soul—thank God— Can help itself. Be sure your fate Doth keep apart its state,— Not linked with any band, Even the noblest in the land,— In tended fields with cloth of gold No place doth hold. But is more chivalrous than they are, and sigheth for a nobler war; A finer strain its trumpet rings, A brighter gleam its armour flings. The life that I aspire to live, No man proposeth me; 

557 July 1969

 No trade upon the street Wears its emblazonry. Along with his friend and mentor Ralph Waldo Emerson, Thoreau believed strongly in a self-reliance which was, _ ultimately, a reliance upon God. The fervor of Thoreau in this poem seems out of place if we do not remember this. It is a little unfair to think of Thoreau as the great rebel in American literature and it is even more unfair to believe that the group of which Thoreau and Emerson were a part — the Transcendentalists — were characterized by personal eccentricity and harsh independence. What all the Transcendentalists insisted upon was the necessity for each person to find out for himself what he believed in. They were sure that men of faith and good will would finally come to essential agreement, since God is the author of all truth but they felt strongly that each person must come to that unity in his own way. In this poem Thoreau tries to reject all the crutches which men have tried to use to avoid facing the truth and establishing a personal liberty based on that truth. James Oppenheim's "The Slave" is equally committed to the necessity for each man to free himself before he can conceive the meaning of liberty. Discussion Question According to the gospel, what is freedom and when is man free? "THE BRIDE COMES TO YELLOW SKY" This selection by Stephen Crane has been praised as an im- 558 plicit satire on an idealized West, as a major example of literary realism; or as simply a memorable story. Crane himself felt it was a "daisy" of a story. It is surely all of these but, in addition, few narratives equal its sensitive probing of the nature of freedom. In Walter Lippmann's article we see the part played by opposition in clarifying liberty. In "The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky" we are helped to understand the necessary connection between freedom and responsibility. There is no talk of freedom in this tale. The characters we meet are not given to philosophizing, but their instinct is sure. Even Scratchy Wilson, blurred by whiskey and unfaltered rage, is sobered and calmed by Jack Potter's announcement that he is now married. We have PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours * Hill Cumorah Pageant 16 days and 23 days leaving July 26th % Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * Canadian Rockies and Northwest August 18th-31st * Hawaiian Aloha Week October 12th-25th Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 ~ Phone: 466-8723 Hill Cumorah Pageant 3 TOURS departing Salt Lake City — July 19 for 16 days — $279.00 July 26 for 20 days — $359.00 July 12 for 24 days — $395.00 (July 12 tour includes Canada) EXPERIENCED ESCORTS ON ALL TOURS our best tour to HAWAII Annual "ALOHA WEEK TOUR" escorted by owner, GARY MITCHELL 14 days departing SLC Oct. 20 — returning SLC Nov. 2 TEMPLE SESSIONS INCLUDED TOURS FOUR DIFFERENT ISLANDS Request itineraries and assistance for all travel needs from HOLIDAY AWAY Travel Service Suite 301, 136 South Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Telephone 328-8981 formerly Margaret Lund Travel Service fotal blectric living UTAH POWER &. LIGHT CO. Lesson Department no reason to believe that Jack will be less effective as a sheriff now that he has a wife but the order which he must now maintain will no longer be part of the game by which he has entertained the town. It is an indication of the refining influence of women in the development of the rugged west. Under the press of responsibility we are tempted to equate freedom with lack of obligations. Children, however, know better. How anxious they are to leave the circumscribed sphere of childhood for the choices of an adult world. If we lose some of a child's careless zest in growing up, we trade it gladly for the enlarged positions of husband, wife, father, mother. As Lehi reminds us, a Garden of Eden universe is static. (2 Ne. 2:22-23.) In the right to choose we prepare ourselves for eternal liberty. Discussion Question Too much responsibility may not prove compatible with freedom. How can we establish the proper balance? BRIGHT ECHO I watched a gull fly low Across the sky, Just where the sunset, Mirrored in the lake, Caused all its beauty To intensify. Alone, where rosy ripples Raced to break, Its bright wings echoed In the lake's reply, Flew its reflected self, In splendor's wake, And seemed the mystic Flight to glorify. —Nona H. Brown 559 101 100 98 97 96 95 94 93 92 560 Mrs. Ella Georgiana Francisco Keele Herkimer Co., New York Mrs. Campbellene Smith Clements Richmond, Virginia Mrs. Elizabeth Rahing Regh Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Altena Ericksen Larsen Newton, Utah Mrs. Sarah Estella Cordon Ogden, Utah Mrs. Ida May Peach Gillespie Wellington, Utah Mrs. Ester Ada King Loveland Boise, Idaho Mrs. Rose Hannah Cottingham Bushell Orem, Utah Mrs. Phebe R. Davies Kanarraville, Utah Mrs. Frances Mary Cask Kirk Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nancy Smith Palmer Safford, Arizona Mrs. Marilla Davis Brown Provo, Utah Mrs. Hilda Johanna Hansen Johnson Waukegan, Illinois Mrs. Mary Ann Cottom Miller St. George, Utah Mrs. Mary Keey Court Sutton Coldfield, England Mrs. Mary Nelson Hoopes Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Adria Brough Muir Randolph, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Collins Parrish Centerville, Utah Mrs. Mary Swan Badger Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emmo Jean Dudley Jones Provo, Utah Mrs. Margaret Duncan Meldrom Raymond, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Anna Kristine Peterson Hyrum, Utah Mrs. Margaret Boyle West Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Nicholina Borg Young Helena, Montana Mrs.. Emma Baumgartner Hasler Midway, Utah Mrs. Johanna Antonia Ilbel Holmes Ogden, Utah Mrs. Clara Slade Rawlins Hutchinson Whittier, California Mrs. Edith Drake Tingey Centerville, Utah Mrs. Abbie Wordsworth Ashcraft Springville, Utah Mrs. Louisa Mauss Christensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida May Upton Clark New South Wales, Australia Mrs. Elsie Sonberg Cook Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Alice Virginia Smith Freeman Larned, Kansas Mrs. Maud Griffin Ogden, Utah Mrs. Rosa Green Kennedy Randolph, Utah Mrs. Mary Louisa Bigler Kohler Midway, Utah Mrs. Rose Rancher Nelson St. George, Utah Mrs. Sharlotte Ann Lemon Pearce El Monte, California Mrs. Lillian Karen Sorensen Perkins Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Bertha Stutzneggar Peterson Manti, Utah Mrs. Ruth Fenn Stevens Driggs, Idaho Mrs. Antonia Van Harten Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Ringel Cooper Ward Logan, Utah LEADERSHIP Today and Yesterday 1. LEADERSHIP AND HUMAN RELATIONS A Handbook for Parents, Teachers and Executives by Neil J. Flinders Improved human relations is one of the world's vital needs today to achieve maximum stability at a time of maximum change. There is a need for unusual and keen leadership at all levels of society, spiritually motivated. Leader. Ship development is the theme of this book. Personal preparation is stressed along with the tools and motivation to accomplish it. Parents teachers church and government executives can accomplish better leadership through better human relations. Better leaders accomplish more in less time for the good of all. $4.95 2. THEY MADE MORMON HISTORY by Robert B.