[Vol56 | July 1969 | Page 540 | General Feature | Budget Decorating— The Tapestry Touch June Feulner Krambule | Lesson Department]
[Budget Decorating— The Tapestry Touch June Feulner Krambule Lesson Department]

(I Corinthians 15:22.) (Harold B. Lee, Youth and the Church, p. 128.) Lesson Department PURPOSE OF MARRIAGE There are some churches which maintain that celibacy is sanctioned by God. One of these churches in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith was the Shaking Quakers. It was to a group of Latter-day Saint missionaries that the Lord revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that marriage was ordained of him and that those who taught otherwise did not represent him. (D&C 49:15.) Marriage makes it possible for the earth to answer the end of its creation. Because man, as a_premortal being, was designed to come to earth to work out his salvation, marriage was ordained to bring about this purpose. Consequently, the fundamental purpose of marriage is to beget children that the Lord's purposes may be fulfilled. (D&C 49:16-17.) MARRIAGE OUTSIDE OF THE CHURCH Should a Latter-day Saint young man or woman marry someone who is not a member of the Church? Leaders of the Church have counseled members to marry within the Church. (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 196-97; Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, p. 279; David O. McKay, Gospel Ideals, p. 465.) Where the parties to a marriage are both strong in different faiths, the chances for happiness are greatly diminished. (John A. Widtsoe, Evidences and Reconciliations, pp. 237-38.) Sometimes young people feel that when they marry a nonmember, he or she will be able to convert him or her to the Church. 

541 July 1969

 The chances for conversion and the consequent happiness in marriage are far greater if the conversion is made before marriage. (Harold B. Lee, Youth and the Church, p. 132.) The Lord has said that parents should teach their children correct principles to shape their lives for happiness. (D&C 68:25- 28.) The mother has a wonderful opportunity in the home to impress upon her children the importance of marrying within the Church. Class Discussion How and when should a mother prepare her children for temple marriage? PURPOSE OF LIFE To work out one's salvation in this life and in the life to come is the paramount purpose of the earth life. This means that the purpose of God in creating man is to grant to him, through obedience, the greatest measure of salvation—eternal life. (Moses 1:39.) As man is the child of God, so also man may, by obedience to law, become as the Father. (D&C 132:20-22.) The blessing of eternal life comes to those who fulfill all the laws and commandments. OBEDIENCE TO THE GOSPEL The gospel of Jesus Christ provides the way whereby the sons: and daughters of God may return © to his presence in the celestial kingdom. Baptism is the gate to that kingdom. (D&C 76:50-53.) There are degrees in the celestial kingdom, therefore, members of his Church should seek for the highest degree. 542 In the celestial glory there are three heavens or degrees; And in order to obtain the highest, a man must enter into this order or priesthood [meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage]; And if he does not, he cannot obtain it. He may enter into the other, but that is the end of his kingdom; he cannot have an increase. (D&C 131:1-4.) The new and everlasting covenant is the gospel of Jesus Christ. There are many covenants within the gospel and marriage for eternity is one of them. To be fully obedient to the gospel involves full discipleship. ETERNAL MARRIAGE After a couple have received the higher ordinances of the priesthood endowment in the temple, they are qualified to receive eternal marriage. Only by the keys of the priesthood held by the President of the Church, who delegates these powers to others, may this union be solemnized. (D&C 132:7.) The blessings available to those who marry for eternity are these: they shall pass by the angels, and the gods, which are set there, to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever. (D&C 132:19.) ETERNAL INCREASE In Section 131 and in Section 132, verse 19, the Lord has told us that if faithful to the eternal marriage vows, the blessing of "increase," and 'a continuation of the seeds forever and ever" will be received. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave the following information on this subject: Except a man and his wife enter into an everlasting covenant and be married for eternity, while in this probation, by the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood, they will cease to increase when they die; that is, they will not have any children after the resurrection. (DHC, Vol. 5, p. 391.) The children born to an exalted man and woman after the resurrection are spirit beings. The parents are tangible, resurrected persons referred to in the scriptures as having spiritual bodies; that is, with spirit element in their veins rather than blood as in mortal bodies. (D&C 88:27; Al. 11:45; Brigham Young, Discourses of Brigham Young, p. 374.) THE DEATHS When resurrected beings are exalted they receive "eternal lives," the power of eternal increase, which is the opposite of the "deaths," or the lack of such power. (D&C 132:24-25.) Only exalted beings will be married in the future life because they proved themselves while on the earth in being faithful to all things required of them. (D&C 132:12.) In the following verses the conditions in the world to come are explained, having reference to those who receive marriage for eternity and to others who did not subscribe to the full law: Therefore, if a man marry him a wife in the world, and he marry her not by me nor by my word, and he covenant with her so long as he is in the world and she with him, their covenant and marriage are not of force when they are dead, and when they are out of the world; therefore, they are not bound Lesson Department by any law when they are out of the world. Therefore, when they are out of the world they neither marry nor are given in marriage; but are appointed angels in heaven, which angels are ministering servants, to minister for those who are worthy of a far more, and an exceeding, and an eternal weight of glory. For these angels did not abide my law; therefore, they cannot be enlarged, but remain. Separately and _ singly, without exaltation, in their saved condition, to all eternity; and from _ henceforth are not gods, but are angels of God forever and ever. (D&C 132:15-17.) If there are some who may believe that their marriage is in effect beyond the grave, although not solemnized by God's priesthood in the temple, the following verse corrects this belief: And again, verily I say unto you, if a man marry a wife, and make a covenant with her for time and for all eternity, if that covenant is not by me or by my word, which is my law, and is not sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, through him whom I have anointed and appointed unto this power, then it is not valid neither of force when they are out of the world, because they are not joined by me, saith the Lord, neither by my word; when they are out of the world it cannot be received there, because the angels and the gods are appointed there, by whom they cannot pass; they cannot, therefore, inherit my glory; for my house is a house of order, saith the Lord God. (D&C 132:18.) Class Discussion How does our desire to project our family relationship into eternity motivate our desire to attain the celestial kingdom? MARRIAGE IN THE RESURRECTION In reference to a question concerning marriage of a woman to several husbands, the Savior said that "in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in 

543 July 1969

 marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven." (Matt. 22:30.) What did the Lord mean when he said that there was no marrying in the resurrection? He was speaking of the Sadducees who had rejected the gospel and its teachings about eternal marriage. As far as they were concerned, there was no Marrying or giving in marriage in heaven. But if the persons are worthy to be married for eternity, and the opportunity does not come while on the earth, the opportunity for this blessing will come in the world ahead. The necessary ordinances may, for instance, be performed on the earth in a temple by proxy. What of Latter-day Saint daughters who have died without being sealed to a man in the temple? Elder Melvin J. Ballard gave this counsel: Now, then, what of your daughters who have died and have not been sealed to some man? Unless it is made known to you, let their case rest. They will make known to you the agreements and contracts they have mutually entered into. The sealing power shall be forever and ever with this Church, and provisions will be made for them. We cannot run faster than the Lord has provided the way. Their blessings and privileges will come to them in due time. In the meantime, they are safe. (Bryant S. Hinckley, Sermons and Missionary Services of Melvin J. Ballard, p. 260.) Elder Ballard also gives an answer to the same question concerning little children who, of course, did not receive the sealing ordinance of marriage: I lost a son six years of age, and I saw him a man in the spirit world after his death, and I saw how he had exercised his own freedom of choice and would obtain of his own will and volition a companionship, and in due time to him, and all those who are worthy of it, shall 544 come all of the blessings and sealing privileges of the house of the Lord. Do not worry over it. They are safe; they are all right. (Ibid.) What about young men and women who die without the opportunity for marriage in the temple? Elder Harold B. Lee has said: You young women advancing in years who have not yet accepted a proposal of marriage, if you make yourselves worthy and ready to go to the house of the Lord and have faith in this sacred principle, even though the privilege of marriage does not come to you now, the Lord will reward you in due time and no blessing will be denied you. You are not under obligation to accept a proposal from someone unworthy of you for fear you will fail of your blessings. Likewise you young men who may lose your lives in a terrible conflict before you have had an opportunity for marriage, the Lord knows the intents of your hearts and in his own time will reward you with opportunities made possible through temple ordinances instituted in the Church for that purpose. (Harold B. Lee, Youth and the Church, p. 132.) ' Many women join the Church although their husbands may not. What of them? Salvation is an individual matter. If one party to the marriage remains true to the covenant of baptism and the opportunity for eternal marriage is not possible, then the righteous desires of that person's heart will eventually be realized. Class Discussion In view of the foregoing discussion, why do you think the gospel of Jesus Christ is just? BLESSINGS OF TEMPLE MARRIAGE Experience has shown that those who marry in the temple generally find success in their marriage. Elder John A. Widtsoe gave the following nine reasons for a temple marriage: 1. It is the Lord's desire and will. 2. It is in harmony with the sacred nature of the marriage covenant. 3. It tends to insure marital happiness. 4. It permits the association of husband - and wife for time and for all eternity. 5. It provides the eternal possession of children and family relationship. 6. It acts as-a restraint against evil. 7. It furnishes the opportunity for endless [eternal] progression. 8. It. Places the: family under the: protection of the power of the priesthood. 9. It provides a God-like destiny for human beings. (John A. Widtsoe, Evidences and Reconciliations, pp. 231-36.) HAPPY HOMES The performance of the marrlage ceremony in the temple is not sufficient in itself to make a happy home. President David O. McKay has given six elements which lie at the basis of true home building: 1. Let us. Substitute the present tendency toward a low view of marriage with the lofty view which God gives a os. 2. Teach the young of both sexes in the responsibilities and ideals of marriage so that they may realize that * marriage involves obligation and is not an arrangement to be terminated at pleasure. 3. Instruct young girls in the fundamental arts of housekeeping, so that when responsibilities of wifehood come, they may be free from the difficulties and _ perplexities which arise from ignorance and inexperience. 4. Marriages should be solemnized, as far as possible, in the house of God. DD. Keep religion in home life.... 6. Teach the young that the foundations of a happy home are laid before even the bride and bridegroom kneel at the marriage altar. (David O. McKay, Gospel Ideals, pp. 478-79.) Lesson Department IMPLEMENTATION In the premortal world the plan of salvation was formed whereby the spirit sons and daughters of God could receive an earth life necessary for eternal progression. The relationship between God and his children was a parent-child relationship because his spint children were born of a Heavenly Father and Heavenly Mother. (Harold B. Lee, Youth and the Church, pp. _ 126-27.) The eternal round of spint children being born to exalted beings and the opportunity to reach the heights of exaltation by an earth life require marriage for eternity by mortals. Faithfulness to eternal marriage covenants is a means of proving oneself as a part of the eternal plan. Marriage. Was instituted by God for the purpose of bringing to earth life his spirit children for this probationary state. Exaltation is possible only to male and female together. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, p. 276.) Marriage is so essential to salvation in the highest sense that provision is made in the gospel that those who do not have the opportunity in life for eternal marriage may have the blessing of temple ordinances by proxy. Latter-day Saint parents have the responsibility of teaching their children the principles of the gospel in order that they may be prepared for marriage in the temple. They know that success in marriage is enhanced greatly by eternal marriage and that only when sealed by the priesthood of God can contracts remain unbroken when men are dead. (D&C 132:13-14.) 545 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 1—In the Service of Your Fellow Men Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: To realize that when we serve our fellow beings, we are in the service of our God. A few years ago a group was discussing the meaning of service. One said, "I'm a _ business man. Everything I manufacture and sell is to help others have a better life." A teacher said, "My whole day is devoted to helping others develop." A mother said, "I gave birth and thus life to a number of people and I serve them." A lawyer said, "A public servant is well named. An elected official serves others." Centuries before this, King Benjamin called all his people together to teach them the will of God. In his memorable address he said: And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God. (Mosiah 2:17.) What was he saying about service in this verse and the following verses of his speech? Did he mean what the businessman, the teacher, the lawyer, even the mother did, or was he speaking of something beyond the general goodness that people 546 may extend to. One another and for which they often receive remuneration and other earthly rewards? Jesus said: Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father who is in heaven.