[Vol56 | July 1969 | Page 549 | General Feature | Homemaking Discussion— "She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household" Celestia | J. Taylor]
[Homemaking Discussion— "She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household" Celestia J. Taylor]

549 July 1969

 These words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., spoken as early as 1933, reveal a situation which has become increasingly evident through succeeding years and is a vivid reality today. They lead us into the general discussion theme of this lesson, which will quote liberally from lessons 6 and 7 of the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study. This companion lesson will discuss restraints as they relate to the individual, emphasizing the need for restraints in society and in one's personal relationships. UNREST AND OPPOSITION The attitude of unrest and opposition to established institutions, referred to by President Clark and so apparent throughout the world today, is giving parents, educators, and civic leaders much concern. They are considering probable causes and searching for remedies. Existing conditions convince us_ that no easy answer is available and that no generalization is adequate for the complex condition involving so many aspects. President Clark states: Some may say this rebellion shows merely a wish for greater liberty; others may consider it a destructive demand for complete license. As frequently happens, neither extreme view seems wholly right. The truth probably lies somewhere between. (Ibid.) A list of probable factors related to this attitude of revolt follows. President Clark has suggested the first three, others have been added, and still others may be suggested. Our concern in 550 this discussion -is to discover some areas where the home may be abdicating important responsibilities. Question for Discussion In your opinion, which of the following probable factors seem most likely to be responsible for this _personal revolt? Discuss as time permits. 1. A general desire for more liberty. 2. A destructive demand for complete license—freedom from restraint. 3. A personal weakness which may cause an individual to want others to become as he is or to share his point of view. 4. A lack of constructive objectives that give purpose to life. A desire to be different. A wish to escape responsibility. A basic lack of understanding of the value of law and order and of the need for personal restraint even in situations where changes and dissent may be justified. 8. A sincere mistrust by many idealistic young people of what they consider to be the hypocrisy and artificiality of accepted standards. Revolt for this reason, if recognized for the idealism it is and properly channeled, can be transformed into a force for good. Ad Points to Consider In the search for cause and cure, may we not justly turn the searchlight upon the homes from which these individuals —these restless resisters of law—have come? We may ask such pertinent questions as these: 1. Is it possible that restrictive demands within the home have been excessive, or has there been a complete lack of restraint? 2. Is it possible that an understanding acceptance within the home has been lacking so self-esteem has not been developed? 3. Have parents set the example of restraint by having definite life objectives? Have they motivated the children to do likewise? A. Have the children been given freedoms in those areas where individuality is commendable? b. Have they been guided so as to be able to distinguish between that which is merely "different" and that which is fundamental]? 4. Have the parents done too much for the children, thus depriving them of the strength and growth that responsibility develops? 5. Has the home neglected to teach the need for law and the fact that obedience to law and order brings freedom? 6. Have faith in God and general religious training been absent in the home? RESTRAINTS—WHY? Certain familiar virtues, when developed and exercised, make us good citizens and dependable, upright individuals. These virtues are basic to constructive private life and have been found to be essential to an orderly society as a whole. We may enumerate some of them in such affirmative terms as_ honesty, respect for life and property of others, or in the negatively expressed commandments of the Decalogue, such as, thou shalt not kill, nor steal, nor commit adultery. President Clark states: These virtues are named _ because, looking at mankind as a whole and at the Christian nations particularly, these characteristics seem to be basic to their civilization. They seem to be equally basic to any form of orderly society of which we can conceive. For if every person murdered and robbed and _ lied and loafed and caroused, if there were an indiscriminate association of the sexes, no ordered society could exist; and without such society we have scant ground for hoping and no ground for believing, that humanity could escape becoming merely animal. ([bid.) Discussion Statements If the foregoing statements are sound, organized society must esLesson Department tablish some restraints and some conventions to assist in the enforcement of the _ restraints. President Clark states: Certainly some _ conventions and restraints must be retained; it is equally certain that others might be changed or abolished. The restraint which forbids murder may not be safely abandoned; the convention which prescribes the difference between dinner jacket and full evening dress might be forgotten. (Ibid.) RESTRAINTS—WHEN AND HOW MUCH? How much restraint and what type of conventions needed for an orderly social unit to persist may depend upon (1) the persons or group of people affected, (2) the state of their civilization and righteousness. President Clark declares: The greater the civilization and righteousness which a person or a_ people shall possess, the less will be the need of restraint and convention. (Ibid.) Implementation 1. Relate the foregoing statement of President Clark with the following occasion and statement: When the Prophet Joseph Smith was asked how he governed the thousands of converts into the Church, he replied, *"*... I teach the people correct principles and they govern themselves. (Cited by John Taylor, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 10, pp. 57-58 [hereinafter referred to as JD}.) 2. Relate this principle to parental training within the home, answering this question: Can children, generally, be expected to perform better than their teaching or their knowledge? INHERENT IN ALL CREATION Speaking of universal laws, President Clark states:. The great laws governing the universe—physical, intellectual, and 

551 July 1969

 spiritual—are coexistent with that universe as known to us: they are self-executory, that is, they enforce themselves, no one needs to enforce them; they operate independently of man's. Will, consent, or desire; they operate impartially and universally; every creature, human or animal, every other created thing, is subject to the applicable law. It follows that whether we wish or whether we do not wish restraint, yet restraint is inherent in all creation.. Efforts to ignore restraint, or to evade it, or to destroy it, will meet with failure. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 7.) The physical world is fully controlled by law; if it were not, it could not and would not exist. Heat, light, electricity, what we call matter—air, water, earth— all are subject to and controlled by law. Our bodies being matter are equally subject to great physical laws from none of which is there any escape. (Jbid., lesson 6.) Question How can a mother make use of her knowledge of these immutable laws in the training of small children? President Clark suggests some practical. Illustration for the operation of these physical laws. He continues: If we walk off a cliff, we fall. It is immaterial whether we know the cliff is there, or whether we know we will fall if we walk off, or whether we desire to fall, or whether we step off the cliff by one foot or jump off by five feet; the result is the same and _ inevitable. If we touch a hot stove, we are burned; ignorance of its heat, or an accidental touching, or our own preferences, or our lack of knowledge that hot stoves burn—all are immaterial. If we lay hold of a copper wire, heavily charged with electricity, we are killed; again neither ignorance nor accident nor preference will avail us. Acid burns our flesh, water drowns us, poison gas kills us. These results all come from the operation of laws which are immutable; they execute themselves; they do not depend either upon our knowledge of their existence, or upon our consent to their operation, or upon our desire that they 552 manifest themselves; the penalty inevitably follows the violation. (Ibid.) Discussion Questions How may the relationship between the mother and child be affected if the mother (a) merely gives a_ negative command, (b) explains that a. Certain action will bring a certain result? Give examples. How would you answer the older child who asks: "But is there no exception? Does one always have to experience the penalty for violating the law?" One mother's reply: There is no exception unless some other law intervenes to. Soften or eliminate the penalty. For example, if a person wears asbestos gloves, he may be spared the burning effect of the hot stove. If a person steps off the cliff in a parachute, he may land safely upon the ground. The child, thus, gradually learns through experience and the verbal guidance of parent or other persons to walk freely and safely through many of the hazards of the physical world. He must, however, also learn—that this is a gradual process—that the effects of many physical laws must not be learned through personal experience, if he is to survive physically. He must not shoot himself to learn that a bullet shot from a gun can kill. From his close associates, especially the mother, the small child learns of many laws vicariously. He later may seek other authoritative sources. Question How can the mother establish a relationship that will build confidence in her judgment and admonition? Discuss briefly. THE IMMEDIATE VERSUS THE DELAYED PENALTY The penalty for violation of the immutable laws may be immediate, as in the foregoing examples, or they may be delayed for months or even many years. It is not difficult for adults to know and to understand why this is so. It is, however, not always easy for them to keep the effects sufficiently in mind that they are willing to heed the warning effects of the law. It is far easier to comply with the restraints of the law when the penalty is in immediate sight. Would many persons yield to the habit of smoking if the possible cancer result were always an immediate penalty? For children, it is even more difficult to maintain interest in a far-away penalty. Discussion Statement The more mature a person becomes, the more willing he is to comply with the restraints of physical laws where the results are not immediate. There are innumerable laws in the physical world about which we know very little at present. It is to discover these laws and their effects that research science is making such great effort today, in extensive areas of life. Much hasbeen discovered already. We have centered our discussion, thus far, upon the immutable laws which affect our physical beings. "... It is inconceivable," LIFE'S AFTERNOON Lesson Department states President Clark, "that affairs of the mind and spirit of men, embracing the moral and spiritual world, are not also controlled by law." (Ibid.) (This aspect of the laws which affect our lives will be treated more fully in the succeeding lesson.) We also have focused our discussion, thus far, upon the effects of violating specific natural laws. We must not overlook the truth that obedience to the law brings affirmative rewards. President Clark phrases this idea beautifully in the following paragraph: On the other hand the law operates just as certainly in its blessings as in its penalties. If we avoid the cliff, we do not fall; if we do not touch the stove, we are not burned; if we leave the charged electric wire alone, we are not injured. So in intellectual and spiritual matters: if we do not offend, we suffer no injury. But in intellectual and spiritual matters, obedience to law brings' not only the blessings of mere absence - of penalty, but it brings also, in every case, increased power and strength, it brings growth and development, it brings us nearer to the ultimate goal pronounced by the Master: "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." [Matt. 5:48.] And this truth is the wonder and the glory of our intellectual and spiritual lives. (Ibid, lesson 7.) For Home Doing Make opportunities to remind yourself and to teach your children that obeying the restraining laws of the universe is to walk the road of freedom—free from the penalties that violation brings, free to enjoy the rich blessings of obedience. No afternoon of life is colorless; All the brilliance of the setting sun Reflects the golden memories of youth, And gilds the pathway toward the evening. —Grace B. Wilson 553 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 1—The Meaning of Freedom Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section One By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas 'My soul standeth fast in that liberty in the which God hath made us free.'' _The Book of Mormon (Al. 61:9.) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: To make clear that the free agency of man—his right to choose—is at the base of all meaningful liberty. MUSIC. Bianik" from Ma Viast (My Fatherland) by Bedrich Smetana (1824-1884) Commentary on musical selection by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University. Through the ages as men have striven to be "... Free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon." (2 Ne. 3:26) they have yearned for personal and political freedoms. In the great nationalistic movements of the 19th century, artists, writers, and musicians did not really reflect the conditions of their time as much as they wrote on what they wished conditions were to be. Bedrich Smetana, in his later life, composed a series of six tone poems that beautifully expressed his love and hopes for his country. "The Moldau" is the best known of the six. It is a musical description of the mighty river by that name which flows through the land. "Blanik" is the final poem of the series, it paints the hill located in the mid-southern region of Bohemia around which an old legend is built—a legend that tells of sleeping knights that will awaken to serve the country in time of need. Smetana has used as a theme for this work the old Hussite hymn, Ye Are the Warriors of God.