[Vol56 | July 1969 | Page 546 | General Feature | Spiritual Living— Eternal Marriage | Roy W. Doxey]
[Spiritual Living— Eternal Marriage Roy W. Doxey]

Many will say to me in that day: Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works? (italics added.) And then will I profess unto them: I never knew you....(3 Ne. 14:21-23.) And again Jesus said, "For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same?" (Matt. 5:46.) In these teachings is God -not calling us to a more profound meaning of loving service? Is it enough just to take care of others we love? Do not sinners do the same? In his early instructions to the Relief Society, Joseph Smith said that one of the purposes of the society was in "... Searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants. (History of Relief Soctety, 1842-1966, p. 18.) Moreover, Jesus taught it was to be done so "That thine alms may be in secret. " (Matt. 6:4.) Again Joseph Smith - said, ".. Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 5, p. 25 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) Our service to our fellow men, then, has special meanings. It is to be a part of serving God with our "whole souls" (Mosiah 2:21), to follow Jesus into total Lesson Department righteousness, and do the" will of my [our] Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 7:21.) We should love and serve our enemies. We should search out those in need. We are not only to attend to their physical needs but to help them find the kingdom of God, to keep his commandments " that they might rejoice and be filled with love towards God and all men." (Mosiah 2:4.) We are to help them lift their lives to greater goodness, to help them achieve salvation. As we serve our fellow men, then, with these added dimensions, we are in the service of our God helping to bring about his multiple, great purposes. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Discussion 1—''She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household." (Prov. 31:27) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show the need for family preparedness and the role of the Latter-day Saint woman in achieving it. INTRODUCTION Have any of us ever known a period of time when our leaders have not counseled, advised, and even urged us to prepare our homes and families that we might be self-sustaining in a time of need? The answer would certainly have to be in the negative. Why, then, are many of us so reluctant or so indifferent, or even so negligent that we fail to heed this counsel?

Is it because we have lulled ourselves into a state of false security by using excuses—excuses which