[Vol10 | August 1923 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Guide | Title: Social Service - Marriage and the Social Interests]

LESSON IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in October)
MARRIAGE AND THE SOCIAL INTERESTS
Human beings are by nature social. They are happiest in the presence of friends. Even the pleasure of the companionship of husband and wife does not satisfy entirely the desire for human contact. Unless this desire for social life and friendship
is satisfied there may be growing feelings and expressions of discontent. Home will have a real charm to those only who are not compelled to remain always within its four walls. It becomes a prison to those who are not permitted to get out and away from it occasionally. This applies to those of many years of married life as well as to those who have lived with each other but a short time. A man in order to continue to love his wife should occasionally see her dressed in something other than her kitchen apron. She is interesting and beautiful at home, but she is also interesting and beautiful among friends, chatting and laughing and relieved of the cares of home life for a few hours. To laugh and sing and dance with friends is natural and necessary to complete living.
The Choice of Friends
The best friends of married people are the friends of both husband and wife. Such friends strengthen the bond of union. A husband will admire and love his wife the more if his friends also love and admire her, for after all, his judgment of her qualities are influenced greatly by what his friends say and think of her. To have friends express their admiration of his wife means that she is in reality that wonderful creature that he had imagined her to be. And how happy it makes a woman feel to have her friends say that he is the very man they should have picked out for her, and that she and her husband make an ideal match. Such remarks as these generally come from those who are interested in the happiness of both husband and wife. They are their most valuable friends. There are, however, friends of husband or wife who do not become intimate friends of both. A period of childhood and young manhood and young womanhood normally develops friendship which is of great value to the individual and should be retained if possible. Such friendship affords opportunity to retain in memory the happy days of youth. Of this period Jordan writes: "The old friendships carry with them a sentiment, deep-rooted in the past, a sweetness, a tenderness, a loyalty, a communion of memories and experiences that cannot be duplicated in after life. They are like old books that we have loved for years. The binding is worn and smoothed by our hands and by dear hands stilled forever; the inscription with the date is growing fainter for the eyes to decipher but easier for the heart to read; there are passages that helped and inspired us still loyally retaining our pencilled lines so we could turn to them in perfect confidence whenever we desire."?William George Jordan's Little Problems of Married Life, p. 169.

Relatives
Friendships based on relationship have also special advantages for it combines the ties of nature with many years of intimate association. As years go by this form of attachment should grow stronger. It is sad, indeed, to hear of married people who, through negligence or carelessness, sever their relationship with their parents and their brothers and sisters. The pleasure which comes in visiting the home of their father and mother and the joy which the young married people bring into the lives of their aged parents in such visits cannot be overestimated. Such association deepens and strengthens family union; it ties together the old and the new home, but more than all else it is important in the common interest and mutual sympathy which it creates between the husband and wife. Here is the opportunity for a man or woman to find new friends of real value, and friends, too, who can render great service. The common and careless remark about the unfriendly mother-in-law and father-in-law is not only untrue in the main, but the attitude which such expressions create in the minds of young people is actually mischievous. The mother-in-law has many times become a real loving mother to her young son-in-law or daughter-in-law. Happy indeed, is the young man who has added to the parental love already enjoyed the sympathy and respect of second parents, the father and mother of his wife. Such friendship strengthens profoundly the attachment between the young husband and wife. But in the marriage relation great care must be taken not to permit relatives to interfere with the slow and sometimes uncertain adjustment which is taking place between the young husband and wife. A passage of scripture, sometimes, however, misinterpreted, has in a certain sense a real appreciation: A man must forsake father and mother and cleave unto his wife. There are many delicate experiences which young people have in their attempt to adjust themselves to each other which relatives cannot fully understand. It is, therefore, well for young married people to live by themselves. "The secrets of your marriage," says Frank Crane, "should be as sacred as if you had sworn at an altar not to divulge them. No person except your God, not even your mother, is entitled to know them. It is husband and wife against the world. They twain are one flesh. The permanency of your temple of love depends much upon the inviolability with which you keep your holy of holies. Set the angel of Reserve with a flaming sword at the gates of your Eden. The back door friend has more than once proved an unmitigated curse. * * * It is a law of nature
that when the fruit is ripe it ought to drop, to separate itself from the tree. Your chances are better if you forsake father and mother' also brothers, sisters, aunts and uncles and 'cleave unto' him."
Precautions
Although a social life is essential to the happiness of married as well as unmarried people, it is certain that people who have assumed the responsibilities of a home must not let social interests absorb too much of their time, attention, and energy. The very love that exists between husband and wife may be sacrificed in this way as quickly as any other. In the larger cities where the opportunities for social life is much greater than in the smaller town, married people frequently make serious sacrifices in order to maintain their social standing. Their time is consumed entertaining and being entertained, in studying how they may obtain admittance into social circles. This strenuous social life has caused many married people either to have no children or to put those which they do have in the hands of nurses. Such a life is unnatural and results in the loss of the love which binds parents to children and children to parents. It weakens the bond between husband and wife and robs the home of its sacredness.
QUESTIONS
1. In what way does the social interest support the marriage relations?
2. What effect does proper social life outside of the home have upon a woman's attitude toward her own home?
3. What is the value of retaining old friendships?
4.  Why should a friend of your husband also become your friend? 5. Why should a woman maintain friendly interests with her husband's parents? 6. Show, that the common criticism of the mother-in-law is without justification and is mischievous. ? 7. Why is it important that during the early period of married life the young people should be permitted to work out their own problems without the interference of relatives? 8. Give reason to show that excessive social life outside of the home may undermine the home. 9. What are the results when parents continually turn over their children to nurses for care and attention?