[Vol18 | May 1931 | Sequence: 23a | Category: Editorial | Title: Mothers' Day]

Editorial]

Vol. XVIII MAY, 1931 No. Mothers' Day
As the activity of the Maternity Center Association of New York, Mother's Day this year is to have a new significance and an added factor of practical usefulness. Public-spirited men and women everywhere, educators, physicians, women's clubs, churches and civic organizations, are joining to center public attention on the fact that America's death rate from causes connected with maternity is the highest in the civilized world. The Maternity Center can speak with authority since it has been working on the matter for eight years with nearly five thousand mothers.
Louis I. Dublin, Ph. D., statistician of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, internationally known as an expert, has examined the records of 4,728 mothers cared for by the Maternity Center Association over a period of six years in a certain section of New York City. He compared the results with what happened to mothers in the same section of the city not receiving such care. This showed that those in the first group had about three times as good a chance to survive as the others.
The report says: "The result is indicative of the saving of lives that might be accomplished were all the mothers to receive the benefit of adequate maternity care, as more than sixteen thousand women in the United States every year die from causes related to maternity. This means that more than ten thousand deaths are preventable. In addition, 30,000 of the 100,000 babies who now
die in the first month of life, would be saved. Infants as well as mothers are protected by adequate maternity care."
Commending this campaign for Mother's Day, Surgeon General Cumming said, "The high maternal death rate in this country is a disgrace to our profession, and I am sure that efforts such as this will go far toward improving conditions."
Grace Abbott, chief of the Children's Bureau, endorsing the project, said, "There are no more tragic deaths than of mothers in childbirth, and I feel sure that if it were understood by people of the United States that to a very large extent these deaths are preventable they would be prevented."
Magazines and newspapers are to take up the campaign, radio talks from coast to coast are to be made by physicians and laymen, meetings of women's clubs are to conduct special programs designed to see what can be done to stop the waste in mothers' lives.
Dr. Ralph W. Lobenstein says: "An informed public opinion, demanding adequate maternity care, is a condition precedent to improvement." He points out that while typhoid fever, smallpox and diphtheria have yielded to scientific control in the last quarter of a century, and that tuberculosis has been reduced to half its toll, that the death rate from causes connected with maternity has not been lowered at all during the period for which records are available.
The Center points out that the essentials by which so many mothers' lives were saved who were taken under its care, are "a medical examination immediately upon the discovery that a baby is expected; frequent and regular examinations and instructions until the crucial time, adequate preparations for the birth itself, assuring the presence of the doctor and the nurse too; and remaining under the doctor's care for six weeks after."
Here is a wish for Mother's Day, May 10: "That every baby could be born healthy, and every mother escape the dangers which take 10,000 every year from preventable causes in childbirth.
"Something can be done to make this wish come true. Medical science, like a fairy Godmother, provides the means to reduce these ravages by offering modern maternity care as a gift to be had for the seeking.