Sel Kate Waller Barrett 1858?1925 Annie Wells Cannon "That day is best wherein we give A thought to others' sorrows; Forgetting self we learn to live, And blessings born of kindly deeds Make golden our tomorrows." How truly wonderful must have shone all the tomorrows that came into the life of this noble woman?Kate Waller Barrett, whose every day was filled with the glorious thought of doing good to others! Nay, though she has now finished her life's work and entered upon that golden tomorrow which is eternal, still will her kindly deeds follow her, while thousands whom she served and helped and loved, reverence and bless her precious memory! A kinswoman of General Robert E. Lee, she was born, and reared, and married and died, in one of those beautiful ancestral Virginia homes, so historic in the song and story of early America. It was her cousin, General Fitzhugh Lee, who gave her away in marriage, and merry and happy the throng that danced at her wedding and partook of the proverbial "Old Dominion" hospitality?a hospitality which, as many travelers and friends testify, has lasted throughout all her years, notwithstanding the changes and scars of time and war. 
 She was born January 24, 1858, at Clifton, Stafford county, Virginia, the daughter of Withers and Ann Eliza Stribling Waller, was married in 1876 to Reverend Robert South Barrett, who died' twenty years later. She received her early education at Arlington Institute, Alexandria, Va., and later completed a course in nursing at the Florence Nightengale Training School, at St. Thomas Hospital, London. After sixteen years of married life, and though, by this time, the mother of five children, she still felt the call of higher education, and in 1892 she was graduated with an M. D. Degree from the medical college of Georgia, being valedictorian of her class. From early girlhood she gave evidence of a marked forward-looking personality, and now in her young womanhood being admirably equipped for public work, she began a career along philanthropic lines. Her keen sense of justice and her deeply sympathetic nature were early aroused in behalf of young women whose neglected moral training had led them into forbidden paths, and she associated herself with the cause of the Florence Crittenden Mission, to which cause she gave many years of devoted service acting both as a member of the directorate, and as vicepresident, general superintendent and, from 1897 to 1909, president. During her term of office in connection with this mission Mrs. Barrett made a number of trips to the west, twice visiting in Salt Lake City. The result of one of these visits being the establishment of a home in Ogden, as well as once again when on her way to Japan, where she assisted in establishing a Crittenden Home.., Dr. Barrett was a delegate to the conference for the Care of Delinquent Children which was called by President Roosevelt in 1909; in 1914 the United States government appointed her a special representative to investigate conditions in Europe, surrounding alien women, and in 1919 she was a delegate to the peace conference at Zurich as well as a special representative in Europe of the U. S. Bureau of Immigration. She was the only woman appointed by the Governor of Virginia as a member of the Commission on Training Camp Activities during the World War; and prior to this she was a representative of the United States Government to the San Francisco and San Diego expositions in 1915. Among some of her other activities and positions may be mentioned the following: member of the Societie Academique Histoire Internationale, prominent identification with the conference of Charities and Corrections for Virginia, national chairman of the Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teachers Associations, state regent for Virginia of the Daughters of the American Revolution, honorary member of the National Council of Women of the Argentine, and first national president of the KATE WALLER BARRETT 247 American Legion Auxiliary, in which latter position she has been a mighty friend of the veterans of the late war, and by her special aid and inspiration has helped many of them to "carry on." It is, however, as a member dnd an officer of the National Council of Women of the United States that the Utah women became more intimately associated with Mrs. Barrett and knew her best. In this great organization she held successively the offices of second recording secretary, vice-president and _president, and it naturally follows that the delegates from the Relief Society and the Young Ladies' Improvement Association to the executive sessions and the council gatherings should become very closely associated with her. She proved herself a friend to the Utah women, and whenever occasion called for it she warmly championed their cause. A large delegation of Utah women attended the council in 1902, and after the proceedings were over, Mrs. Barrett invited them to her home in Alexandria, and with true southern grace threw open the rooms of that venerable mansion, then over two hundred years old, giving her guests the entire freedom of the place?to linger among the choice collections of trophies and relics gathered during many years travel in different parts of the world, or to rest in the spacious rooms among the quaint furnishings and family heir-looms. It was a rare opportunity and gave the visitors a most favorable insight into the domestic background of this charming magnetic woman. Two years ago Mrs. Barrett again came to Utah to attend a convention of the American Legion held at Price. Great attention was shown her by the men of the Legion and the women of the Auxiliary, as they could not but feel that it was an exceptional honor she conferred in coming so far to be with them in a state capacity. While on this visit she was entertained at a banquet in Salt Lake City by the Legion Auxiliary, and Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, President of the Relief Society, and Mrs. 'Martha H. Tingey, president of the Young Ladies' Improvement Association, and other officers of these societies, were invited as special guests, by Mrs Barrett's request, as her time was too limited to permit her to accept the entertainment the Utah women desired to give her. Mrs. Barrett died Tuesday, February 23, 1925, at her home in Alexandria. On the evening of her death she had attended a ball given by the Daughters of the American Revolution, and shortly after returning she expired from a sudden heart attack?the incident beautifully demonstrating the verse so typical of her nature: "She smiled at weary feet And said of waxing age, 'Would I be robbed Of life's last page?" 
 The funeral, held in St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Thursday morning, February 25, was a fitting tribute to a life well and fully lived. A friend in Washington, D. C., who attended, writes: "One could hardly imagine so many flowers. It seemed that every organization in the world must have been represented. Among the larger pieces were the State of Virginia, The American Legion, National A. L. Auxiliary, Kiwanis, Rotary, D. A. R., Army and Navy, etc., but the sweetest thing to me was the little bouquets brought in by the children and townspeople of Alexandria. There were hundreds of them, and while the size of the church did not permit all to remain for the service, it seemed to indicate more eloquent than words the love the home folks had for this noble woman. In fact this was the most human, the tenderest and most lovable feature of the whole funeral." It is said that Mrs. Barrett's home is to be kept intact for fifty years, the servants to go on living just as they have done, and nothing spared to make any one "coming home" comfortable. How beautiful to contemplate such thought for loved ones left behind! Mrs. Barrett truly lived every hour. She gathered from the book of knowledge and experience. She gave unbounded love and helpfulness. The brightness of her nature, the beauty and grace of her person, and the radiance of her soul, will be a cherished memory to all who knew her.