Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman SAN JOSE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CALIFORNIA MISSION California M?ssion The San Jose branch, California mission, while small in number is a very active organization, with an average attendance of 80%. Most of the members take the Relief Society Magazine. The Society has placed the Magazine in the public library and in many homes where it is impossible for the sisters to attend the meetings. A non-church member is among the subscribers. The temple fund for the year 1924 was subscribed 140%. The Relief Society, with the other auxilliary organizations in the branch, is concentrating its efforts on raising funds to assist in the building of a chapel. Mrs. Sophia Harmon is president of the San Jose branch. During the summer months, 1924, the Binghampton, Arizona, branch Relief Society took a course in home nursing and first aid from the University of Arizona at Tucson, and they are now planning to take a course in dietetics. The work is given in the extension department, a teacher going from the University to Binghamton to give the course. Northern States Mission The Relief Societies of this mission contributed $72 for temple work in 1924. Effort is being made for even a better 
 record for 1925. The slogan for the coming year is, "At least one day's temple work for each member." Southern States Mission Each year new interest is added to the Relief Society work by the women of the Southern States mission, and the spirit of the work is felt in the outlying districts where there are no Societies. A new organiation has been effected in Miami, Florida, and in a short time the organization purchased an organ and contributed more than a hundred dollars to an unfortunate member who had an afflicted husband. The Richmond Society gave substantial aid to the needy members in another branch. Los Angeles Stake The Los Angeles stake Relief Society, at a cost of $239.50, furnished the living room of a club house for working girls which has been established by the Business and Professional Women's League of Los Angeles. Only girls under Zl years of age, who earn less than $16 per week are admitted to the club house, where they are furnished room and board at $5 per week. In addition to this and to the regular work of the organization, the stake has spent $100 for membership in the Child's Mental Clinic and $10 for membership in the Calfiornia State Conference of Social Work, and has contributed 214 articles to the children's hospital. Relief Society women are in touch with the social agencies of Los Angeles and are becoming known there for the good work they are doing in various lines. Minidoka Stake The Minidoka stake reports a very successful clinic held in Minidoka county under the Sheppard-Towner provisions, with excellent follow-up work. The stake Relief Society with other groups assisted at the clinic where 125 cases were examined in the two days and the follow-up work is being done by the state field nurse in company with President May Jones, and Counselor Zilla Smith of the Relief Society. It is found that in nearly every case the advice given has been carried out, which has brought about the good results which obtain. Blaine Stake The women of the Relief Society of the Blaine stake have, with their neighbors, profited by the health work recently provided for by the Red Cross. Jane Delano, American Red Cross nurse who died in France in 1919, left as a memorial to her parents, funds sufficient to put on five nurses for field work for from three to five years. The Delano committee under the direction of Judge Payne, head of the Red Cross work, appoints the nurses to the territory where NOTES FROM THE FIELD 275 they shall labor. At a regional conference of the state of Idaho held in Boise, the subject of the Delano nurse was discussed and it was decided to send one to the rural parts of central Idaho. Miss Janet Worden was given this appointment and she gives from five to six months' continuous work in a county. She has worked very successful in the southern part of Blaine county in cooperation with the Relief Society organizations. The following is a report of her work from September, 1924, to January 1, 1925: home visits to sick cases, 168; pupils examined in 24 schools, 670; defects among these children as follows: eyes, 193; ears, 49; teeth, 289; nose, 179; throat, 225; skin, 34; lungs, 4; heart, 8; glands, 84; underweight, 98; overweight, 42; poor posture, 34; poor nutrition, 48. Many corrections of these defects have been made. Definite goitre was found in one school in 45 children and now they are all taking the goitre treatment prescribed by the physician. There were also 250 mothers interviewed by the nurse; 34 sanitary inspections of school buildings; 108 second personal visits to homes about children's defects; 90 pre-school children and babies weighed each month; 12 lessons given in home hygiene and care of the sick (classes held for adults), with 101 pupils taking the course; 129 miscellaneous visits to parents; 3,075 miles traveled by car, and 792 miles traveled by train and sled. Box Elder Stake It is interesting to note that out of 163 maternity cases reported in Brigham City, from January to November, 1924, seventyseven used the Relief Society maternity bundles. New Zealand Mission Elder Joseph H. Olsen, president of the Wellington conference, pays the following tribute to the Relief Society Magazine: "A few days ago I was in the home of one of our Relief Society presidents and chanced to see the Relief Society Magazine. I picked it up and hurriedly scanned the contents thereof. It is replete with inspiring articles and gems of wisdom. Through its pages the voice of the Relief Society is carried to the ends of the earth like the sound of a mighty trumpet which encompasses the world with its message of love, good will and spriitual lift. The far-reaching result of this publication can hardly be comprehended. Even here in New Zealand, the very southernmost corner of the Lord's great vineyard, the spirit of the great Relief Society work is brought into the homes of the Latter-day Sapte both the Maori and European, through this splendid periodical." Franklin Stake Previous to the group convention in 1924, a contest was 
 put on in Franklin stake Relief Society with a view of increasing the attendance at the convention. The stake was divided into the east and west sides, and a chairman appointed for each division. Both sides worked faithfully as the results will show. Ninety-seven percent of the officers, teachers and class leaders of the east side were present and ninety-four and a half percent on the west side, the west side falling down on account of sickness in one of the wards. The agreement was for the losing side to entertain the winners. Accordingly, at the next stake and local officers' meeting the west side entertained with a short, spicy program, after which delicious refreshments were served. Salt Lake County Stakes The Salt Lake county Relief Societies recently presented the County Infirmary with two handsome victrolas to be placed in the men's and women's halls, respectively. The superintendent reports that these instruments are a constant source of joy and pleasure to the patients. The stakes which made the presentation are Ensign, Liberty, Salt Lake, Pioneer, Grant, Granite, Cottonwood, Jordan and Oquirrh. Summit Stake In the passing of Mrs. Jane Elizabeth Lemon of Kamas, January, 1925, the women of Summit stake are reminded of her long and faithful service as president of the Morrell ward Relief Society covering a period of forty-one years. There are two especially interesting features connected with Mrs. Lemon's term of office?she and her two counselors, Mrs. Julia Woolstenhulme and Mrs. Christina Larson served together as a ward presidency forty-one years and for thirty-five of the forty-one years, during which time there was no ward house in this small community, all Relief Society meetings were held in the homes of the presidency and her counselors. Mrs. Lemon was not only active in Church work but was a successful midwife and homemaker. She was the mother of nine children. Eastern States Mission Miss Pearl Snow was recently appointed' president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States mission, and since her appointment she has visited the Relief Societies in Boston, Lynn, and Salem, Massachusetts, and Charleston and Huntington, West Virginia. Big Horn Stake A very successful Relief Society conference was held in the Big Horn stake Saturday, Februbary 7, 1925. An instructive program was carried out which consisted of three excellent musical numbers and talks on the following subjects: The Need of  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 277 Missionaries at Home, Music and Literature in the Home, Household Arts and Household Management. All three of the topics were handled in a very able manner. The ward reports showed that the Relief Society work is steadily growing and that a good spirit prevails throughout the stake. Millard Stake Following is a report of the health clinics recently held in the Millard stake: Clinics were held in five of the largest wards in the stake. In one ward all families, where there were small children, except three, attended the clinic. All wards seem interested and are prepared to hold a clinic every three months. Parowan Stake The Parowan ward Relief Society celebrated March 17 ina very fitting manner by entertaining at a social in the afternoon in which the public participated. After the opening exercises a fine program was rendered consisting of musical numbers and short speeches. The life and some of the poems of James Whitcomb Riley were given by Miss Rose and Mr. Hanson, instructors of the Parowan High School. A delicious luncheon was served after which the Society held a very successful bazar, having for sale women's and children's clothing, fancy work, quilts, and rugs. In the evening a pageant entitled "Grandmother's Dream" was very ably presented to a large and appreciative audience after which the remainder of the evening was spent in dancing. Pocatello Stake One of the most enjoyable events of the season, and one long to be remembered by those privileged to be present, was the observance of the eighty-third anniversary of the Relief Society by the First Ward Relief Society at the L. D. S. Tabernacle. The demonstration of a Relief Society business meeting took place on the platform, the presidency seated around the table and the "audience" was the Relief Society choir. Conducted in strictly parlimentary style, the service opened with a hymn, and invocation. The minutes were read and approved, reports received, suggestions for improvements offered, and new members initiated. The program consisted of readings, duets, and remarks by Mrs. Emily Gladwin, followed by solo dances, the Scotch reel, Irish Wash woman and the Money Musk. A delightful surprise of the evening was a colonial minuet in costume, representing President and Mistress Washington; General and Madame Lafayette; Lord and Lady York; Lord and Lady Cornwallis, and others. To the strains of "Humoresque" by Dvorak, played as a minuet, a double file of colonial people filed into the ball room from east and west entrances, and joined their escorts in the center of the hall and danced the minuet to sweet music. Called upon for remarks, 
 Bishop M. A. Pond said he revisioned past history in the program of the evening, up to the time when the Pocatello branch of the Church was organized, May 6, 1888, and his mother was made the first president of the Relief Society, and he had known every succeeding leader. He called upon Mrs. Martha Pugmire, president of the Relief Society stake board. Mrs. Pugmire stated that she was more than delighted with the successful program and in closing admonished against holding ill will against anyone and to forget and forgive offenses and live in peace. The hall was beautifully decorated in Irish colors. Dainty refreshments were served. Benediction was pronounced by Elder Arthur W. Hall.