EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We deeply regret to announce the death of our be-
loved President and respected friend, Mary A. Shaffer,
who departed this life March 7th, 1885. She was the
wife of William Shaffer, and daughter of Thomas and
Hannah Hobson Bradshaw. Was born October 9th,
1844, Yorkshire, England. Her life to us seems but
brief, but has been spent in usefulness.
	She was President of the Relief Society of Ashley
Mill Ward, in which her labors were appreciated; was
also Secretary of the Primary, where she will at the
present time be greatly missed. Her earnest desire was
to understand the principles of her religion, and to live
them; and at no time was she heard to raise her voice in
objection to any principle. Her teachings and wise
counsels will long be remembered by the little ones of
this place.
	During her hours of sickness she was tenderly cared
for by a large circle of friends, who rendered her every
possible assistance, but God, in His inscrutable pur-
poses, has a greater work for her behind the veil, where

[Column 2]

she has gone to prepare the way for those she leaves
here.
	The funeral services were held at the school house
Sunday, March 8th, being the largest assembly of the
kind in this place. Remarks of consolation were offered
by Bishop Hatch and Counselor Clark, after which the
procession moved to the burying ground, where, with
the dedicatory prayer, the remains of our sister were
consigned to their last resting place, there to await the
resurrection of the just.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Mary A.
Shaffer, by the Relief Society of Ashley Mill Ward.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to take
from our midst, by the hand of death, our beloved sis-
ter, we feel that we have lost a faithful and worthy
member of the Relief Society.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors, and
devotion to duty, as worthy the fellowship and highest
esteem of us all.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of an affectionate wife and a
kind friend.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon our
record, and a copy of the same be presented to the be-
reaved family, also the EXPONENT for publication.
	MELISSA REYNOLDS,
	ELLA REYNOLDS, Secretrary.

