EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE General Conference of the Church will
be held this year in Logan, instead of Salt Lake
City. This is the second time only that the
General Conference has not convened here.
The other instance was in St. George in April
1877.
	THE article on Fashion, Folly, Wisdom, occu-
pies the editorial columns in this issue. These
are very important matters, and the subjects
are forcibly handled. No one can read it with-
out realizing the truths it conveys, and especial-
ly should the daughters of Zion and mothers in
Israel take heed to the wise counsel herein
given.
	SEVERAL articles which have been received,
are laid over for the next issue. Reports of
conferences from Ogden, St. George and Snow-
flake; also Correspondence and an article from
the pen of E H. B., and A Reign of Peace, by
M. E. Kimball, all acceptable and will appear in
good time.
	THE decision of the Supreme Court of the
United States in the cases of Mary Ann Pratt
and Mildred Randall, determined some points 
that the Commissioners had previously decided
against in their own way; and thus it will be
seen that the votes of many widows, citizens in
their own right, cannot be challenged, and their
names may be registered when the time sh ll
come round for registration again. These ladies
should avail themselves of the privilege, and we
trust will consider it a duty, and not lose the op-
portunity now open to them to exercise the
gift of franchise.
	WE had the pleasure, in company with Sister
E. S. Taylor, of visiting the Young Ladies' As-
sociation in the Sixteenth Ward. Miss Emma
Finch, the President, seems in every respect a 
capable and efficient person for such a responsi-
ble position. We were gratified to hear one of
the young ladies offer the first prayer. Judging
from appearances the Association seems to be
in a good condition, and to have a good attend-
ance of intelligent young girls. After the pro-
gramme had been rendered, Miss Finch made
some very apt and timely remarks, and was
followed by the visiting sisters. Bishop Kesler
pronounced the benediction.


