Y. L. M. I. A. ANNUAL MEETING.

     An annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
the 17th Ward was held at the residence of
Sister Julia Howe, Friday, Feb. 20th, 1885.
Sisters E. R. Snow Smith, E. S. Taylor, Nellie
Colebrook, H. T. King and other visitors were
present. The President of the Association,
Sister Julia Howe, presided over the meeting.
After the usual opening exercises were over an
interesting report for the year ending Feb. 20,
1885, was ready by the secretary. A short and
varied programme was then rendered, which
was listened to with interest.
     Sister Howe stated the object of the meet-
ing, which was the election of officers, at the
same time tendering her resignation as Prest.
of the association. This resignation was not
accepted.
     A motion was then made and put to the
members of the effect that Sister Howe be re-
tained as President of the Association. The
motion was unanimously carried by the uplift-
ed hands and smiling faces of the members,
showing that their hearts went with their votes.
The other officers also remaining the same, the
association now stands with Sister Julia Howe
as President, Sisters Emily Richards and Sadie
Howe as Counselors, Ella Dallas as Secretary,
Vickie Clayton as Assistant Secretary and
Lizzie Barnes as Treasurer and Librarian.
      The meeting was then addressed by the visit-
ors, and much good advice, instruction and
encouragement was imparted to the members
and to all who listened.
    Sister Eliza gladdened the hearts of all by
her presence and with the words of counsel
which she gave, commending all that was
praiseworthy, and giving suggestions, in her
characteristic way, on points where the Associa-
tion was deficient. She particularly stated
that she had yet to be converted to the idea of
annual reorganizations. Stated that she had
also to be converted to the idea of adjourning
the Associations during the summer season;
thought that where these plans were adopted 
they would prove a great drawback to the As-
sociation.
     All felt to ask God to bless Sister Eliza and
grant every desire of her heart. All the
speakers felt to congratulate Sister Howe for
the love and esteem in which she is held by the
young people with whom she is associated.
    One item that was broached by a number of
the speakers, and that should be particularly
mentioned, and that is, that we should not
patronize our enemies in any way. This was
afterwards put before the meeting in the form
of a resolve, and was unanimously adopted.
     After the closing exercises the company ad-
journed to the dining room, where a bounteous
repast was spread, of which all partook with
enjoyment; the many good things, with which
the tables were laden, being well seasoned with
pleasant conversation.
     The evening was spent in social chat and in-
terchange of thought. All passed off well,
and everybody went home feeling in good
spirits and benefited by partaking of the good
things, spiritual and temporal, that were freely
given to them. All felt to say that it is good
to mingle where all are of one heart and on
spirit.
ELLA DALLAS, Secretary.


Emily Pfeiffer of London, who visited Salt
Lake City with her husband last October, has,
in the March number of the Contemporary
Review, an article upon Woman Suffrage, said
to be an exceedingly able argument in its favor.
The lady is a very graceful and popular writer,
and her articles in prose and poetry are very
highly complimented by members of Parlia-
ment. She was a friend of the late George
Elliot and of George Henry Lewis.


