	FASHION, FOLLY, WISDOM.

	I am more than pleased at the action that has
of late been taken by the Young Ladies' Mutual
Improvement Associations throughout Zion to
discountenance the spending of money with
those that are not of us; even for the necessary
articles of clothing, but more especially the dis-
pensing with those articles that may be classed
among the useless; commonly termed gewgaws,
but yet are extensively indulged in as a sort of
vanity.
	The Lord has been pleased to reveal Himself
upon every matter that pertains to cur conduct
upon the earth; He has taught us not only in
relation to that which we should eat and drink,
but has spoken very definitely in regard to our
dress. Here is His language: "Thou shalt not
be proud in thy heart; let thy garments be plain
and their beauty the beauty of the work of
thine own hands." While I would be sorry to
suggest anything that should in the least tend
to destroy in my sisters the love of the beauti-
ful, or that inclination to the legitimate adorn-
ment of the body, which I view to be a gift from
God, yet would I warn the daughters of Zion
against imitating the fashions and follies of a
corrupt world, whose style of dress, and the or-
namentation accompanying the same, do not
originate with the chaste and pure of woman-
kind, but are furnished by men who are paid
fabulous sums of money to invent styles and
fashions that pander to the most vitiated tastes
and wanton desires. Fashions that grati'y vain
and wicked ambitions to-day, and after accom-
plishing their purpose are speedily cast aside to
by replaced by others that have their origin from
the same source.
	The Lord has told us that He is not pleased
with the world nor their practices. He told
Joseph Smith to leave their religion alone, for it
was all wrong. In short, there is hardly a
practice of Babylon to day, but when criticised
and scanned by the light of revelation, would
reveal a wrong somewhere; even those practices
that pertain to the higher walks of life that are
by them considered perfect. We have been told
to "come out of her." What for? "That ye be
not partakers of her sins," etc. Was it our bodies
merely that we were to bring out of Babylon,
and yet retain her customs, her habits and her
practices? I think it meant an entire withdraw-
al, a complete separation. I find among the
many lamantations that will be heard concern-
ing her, when she shall be destroyed, the fol-
lowing: "Her that was clothed in fine linen and
purple and scarlet, and decked with gold and
precious stones and pearls, for in one hour she
is come to naught." Then the command is
given, "Rejoice over her thou heaven, and ye
holy apostles and prophets, for God hath
avenged you on her; for in her was found the
blood of prophets and of Saints, and of all that
were slain upon the earth."

[Column 2]
	Now, tell me there is nothing that per-
tains to Babylon that is worthy of salvation, but
all must be destroyed? Can there possibly be
anything in her that is worthy of imitation by
that people whom God has expressly command-
ed to "come out of her?" On the contrary
wherever Babylon is found to exist in any one
particular there is danger of "plagues," for God
has sworn to destroy her, and that, too, so utter-
ly, that "no place shall be found for her."
	Isaiah had a view of the daughters of Zion in
a day when the poor should be neglected, while
they themselves would be "haughty and walk
with stretched forth necks and wanton eyes."
A day when the Lord should smite them and
"shall take away their changeable suits of ap-
parel, the fine linen, the hoods and the veil,
the bonnets, mufflers, chains, bracelets," as well
as every other article of ornamentation, and
leave them girded in sackcloth. Remember
these were the daughters of Zion who were to
be thus treated. And why? "Because the
daughters of Zion were haughty," etc.
	The tendency to a departure from correct
principles and practices that God has revealed,
involving as it does the most serious consequen-
ces, is deeply to be regretted, and yet it is not
surprising when we consider the temptations
and allurements that surrond us to day. But
are we not responsible in a great degree for the
existence of these things in our midst? Have
we not invited them hither? Have we not
brought them to our very doors, and given them
a place at our firesides? Have we not nourished
and sustained their being until they have grown
strong and powerful, and almost dare us to dis-
place them? Have not our youthful daughters,
in too many instaces, been permitted—nay,
even taught by us to sacrifice, at the shrine of
vanity and foolish fashion, and have they not
learned their lessons so well that they really ex-
cel in these Babylonish accomplishments, tastes
and desires?
	The prudent and thoughtful among us cannot
help but have very serious misgivings in view
of future consequences, for it is a fact that to
the extent that we depart from correct princi-
ples, so are we proportionately in danger.
	God has multiplied blessings upon his people
in these mountains, until they have become
wealthy, and there are not wanting those who
desire to possess themselves of it, and who are
more than ready to bring to us all that is pleas-
ing to the eye and gratifying to the taste, nor do
they stop here, but they also spend much
time and labor in trying to cultivate and im-
prove our taste; but with just the one object in
view, viz., to secure a ready sale for the "latest
fashions;" goods that they have brought at great
expense—especially for our use. Thus the
"lovely dress," the "handsome mantilla," the
"superb cloak," the "charming bonnet," the
"exquisitely fitting shoe," with the very neces-
sary accompaniments of chain, bracelet, breast-
pin, earring, etc., etc., adorn our bodies and
gratify our vanity, and for the time being we
are satisfied. But question, were they not pro-
duced in Babylon—material, labor, everything?
Oh, yes, but "aint they lovely?" But the Lord
says that "our garments should be plain, and
their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own
hands." Oh, that is all very well for religious
people, but then, you know I was never very re-
ligious, and these things are here nd I don't see
why we should not enjoy them; besides they are
much more fashionable, and a great deal cheaper
than anything that could be made here, conse-
quently it is a saving, as well, don't you see?
Thus do we justify ourselves one to another; but
are we justified of God? I answer no, we are
not, for there is not one word contained in the re-
velations of God to His people, written or spoken,
whether it be by way of command, or counsel

[Column 3]of wisdom that we are justified in ignoring, and
before we can be acceptable to our Father we
will be found observing all that He has com-
manded us.
	I have written thus plainly to show my si[-]
ters the magnitude of the work that lies before
them. It will require much faith, much pa-
tience and much prayer, as well as considerable
time to correct these evils that have been pre-
sented, as well as many others that might be
named, for have they not permeated our [-]ntire
society? Showing themselves generally in pro-
portion to our ability to gratify these vitiated
tastes and desires. Nor do we stop here. Some
venture beyond their means, while a few plunge
hopelessly into debt rather than be outdone by
their near acquantices and friends. Thus
may be traced evil after evil growing out of a
desire to do that that the Lord has forbidden;
for we cannot wander in any degree from the
path that He has marked out, and continue so
to do, but other evils will be the result.
	The sustaining of our enemies by our continu-
ous patronage is a wrong so apparent that it
needs no comment; but in view of the tempta-
tions to which we are liable, because of our past
practices, we will have to closely guard ourselves,
and in many instances we will be compelled to
forces ourselves to make the sacrifice. Let us
then, hereafter, not dwell so much upon what
is past, nor elaborate upon the wrongs that have
been, but straightway teach ourselves, and then
teach others correct principles in regard to our
future conduct, and thus step out from the th[-]al-
dom and bondage we find ourselves in to our
enemies—enemies that we have created through
our liberal patronage in gratifying our foolish
vanity.
	Our daughters must be taught these lessons of
wisdom and understadning in regard to their
physical being, as well as the lessons that per-
tain to domestic life, so strongly that when they
marry they are prepared to enter upon the du-
ties of wifehood, and exhibit that vitality of
body, as well as that industry, thrift and econo-
my so necessary to make home happy. Such a
woman will also assume the cares of maternity
with a grace that will stamp her as one that it
in every way worthy, not only to fill the posi-
tion of wife, but that of mother also. 
	Will not the mother who gave broth to such a
daughter be justified in being proud of her?
While her husband (perhaps unconsciously to
himself) will feel the bonds of their union be-
coming stronger as time shall more fully develop
that true womanhood of which she is so fully
possessed. In connection with this there must
also exist that love of God and for the principle
of His holy Gospel, that shall form around her a
bulwark of such strength that in the day of
sore trial and affliction she will stand un-
moved. 
	Let such a foundation be firmly laid in our
daughters; we shall them see exhibited by them
such a strength of character that will be all pow-
erful to resist those encroachments that have
made so very necessary the employment of the
reforming agencies that are now being used to
correct these existing evils.
	Let the daughters of Zion, as well as the sons
of Zion, cease entirely to sustain our enemies;
let them labor from this time forth to build up
Zion in the way that God has appointed; let
them sustain one another, foster the industries
that are already established in our midst, and
make it possible for others to be created; that the
elements around us may be utilized, and made
to produce all that we want to eat, drink and
to wear. Let us leave Babylon, with her follies
and sins, entirely alone, for in this way only
shall we escape her plagues. In proportion as
we do this so will we obtain power over our ene-


mies, and be left free to establish the Kingdom
of God upon the earth.
						J. E. TAYLOR.
Dixie, March 11,1885.


