CORRESPONDENCE.

	NUTRIOSO, Arizona, Feb. 13, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking perhaps a few words from far away
might be interesting is why I write.
	We left St. George the last of June 1883,
and after an agreeable visit to Panguitch Lake
and various settlements we returned to St.
George to the fall conference and soon after
bade adieu to our much cherished home, and
the Temple and its pleasant associations. We
had a very prosperous journey of 500 miles
through an indescribable wilderness of sterile
barrenness, and came to this place in good
health and spirits, although tired, worn and
weary. We here found most of our family in
peace, comfort and reasonably prosperous in
the midst of the saints.
	This is a pleasant, fertile, but small, valley,
truly in the tops of the mountains, with beau-
tiful scenery of low hills and openings of tim-
ber for farms, with the necessary water, this be-
ing a rainy climate. We have here the best
built and finest little town in Arizona; the
dwellings of frame painted white, with good,
substantial frame barns and outhouses; a co-op-
erative store in healthy and prosperous condi-
tion. We have a good frame meeting house,
also white, which is also our school house. Our
meetings are well attended, also our day and
Sunday schools, not forgetting the prosperous
condition of our Primary and Relief Society.
	The Brown brothers have a steam saw mill
in successful operation, to whose enterprise and
energy much of the prosperity of this little
town is to be credited.
	Yours respectuflly,	T. C.

	LOA, Piute Co., Feb. 15, 1885.
DEAR AUNT LULA:
	Your kind, good letter was received in due
time. I thank you for all your kind, comfort-
ing words; do not know whether I will be able
to come up there this summer, but I do know
that I improve all the time, although it is
slowly, but it is better slowly than not at all,
and I thank and praise the Lord for His good-
ness.
	I have written a little poem for baby Evan.
It is just an imaginary picture, not so good as
I should like. Sometime I may write him a 
better one.

