SHORTHAND
	To me it is rather suprising that more ladies
do not admire short hand sufficiently to make
it a study; it is much more easily acquired than
music, and with very little expense.  I took
seventeen lessons, after which I could under-
stand any printed instruction on the subject.
	The system I am learning is Isaac Pitman’s.
It is a pleasant study, and when once acquired
would aid in acquiring others, especially those
taught by lectures, while so much depends on
memory it invariably strengthens that organ.
	The objections to it made by persons who do
not have much copying to do, is, that they
write, so little they would forget it; although
practice is indispensable to gain speed in writ-
ing, a knowledge of it can be retained by
reading books printed in short hand.  Those
in the reporting and corresponding styles are
both interesting and instructive;  some of them
contain foot notes in common print, which the
beginner will find useful.  Mr. Pitman’s week-
ly publications, The Phonetic journal, also
contain some pages in short hand.
After learning the Alphabet, by reading
alone, I learned to write fifty-eight words a
minute. At last the only opportunity I had
or practice was once a month at the Relief So-
ciety meeting; at first I could only insert easy
words, such as the, and, to, etc. but for some
time, though with no other practice, I have
taken down in short hand all I wrote, which
was about one third that was said.  This, no
doubt, seems but little to one that never
tried it.
	Many give up the study when about half
through the most discouraging part. I con-
sider it is a fine accomplishment, even if we
never quite reach the coveted end, verbatim
reporting, and may be acquired with a little
perseverance; an hour devoted to it each day
will soon unfold pleasing results.
	It is also claimed that it induces studious
habits, and has a tendency to improve composi-
tion and penmanship; of the latter art it;may
be considered a branch. While professional
excellence as either penman, reporter or author
is a goal almost too dazzling to think about, it
is probably within, the possibilities for even or-
dinary mortals to acquire one or more of these
arts by home study, after reasonable applica-
tion, and the time devoted to it would scarcely
be missed.
