[LINES, SUGGESTED BY CHRIST’S COUNSEL TO THE LEPER.]

"Wisdom is justified of her children.”—JESUS

Shut off from the world by a fearful disease,
From refinement and friends, from enjoyment and ease;
Lo! a poor loathsome leper, his wretchedness brought
TS the gracious Physician (by multitudes sought)
And implored His compassion, with suppliant mien,
“Lord, I know if thou wilt, that thou canst make me
 clean.” 

And He, who was humble enough "to fulfill
All righteousness,"answered the pleader, " I will."
Oh! blest transformation, miraculous sight!
In an instant the leper was purified quite:
“Made whole ev'ry whit," and by gratitude bound
To publish his cure in the regions around.

But Christ, never eager to add to His fame,
To blazon His deeds, or to trumpet His name,
Strictly cautioned him, “Tell it to no man, but go,
And as Moses commanded, an offering bestow
For thy cleansing, and thus thou a witness shalt be
To the priests of a miracle wrought upon thee."

Was Jesus ashamed of the good He had wrought,
Or cared He so much what the Pharisees thought?
Or was it a crime to bestow strength and health;
A blessing  greater than all the world's wealth?
Wherefore wish a beneficient act to be hidden 
Like something unlawful, unwise and forbidden?

Was Jesus afraid? Can we even suppose
Christ stood for one moment in awe of His foes?
He knew that His Father could instantly send
Countless legions of angles His Son to defend;
But He chose not to ask Him, and taught us,"Tis
well
To avoid much display and to weigh what we tell.

Surrounded by spies, Jesus guarded His speech;
Oft in parables spoke, and endeavored to teach
Truths exalting and deep, in so simple a way,
That the Gospel of goodness the meek might obey,
But with language that glow’d like a torrent of fire,
He silenced the scorners who kindled His ire

Christ reproved their conceit and their covetous ways,
Whoso broaden’d phylacteries courted men's praise:
Who censured in others the tiniest flaw,	
And neglected the weightiest points of the law;
Selfish priests, pompous hypocrites, else had they ne'er
Dared to make a thieve's den of the temple of prayer.

Alas! for a people so blest and so blind,
Who were looking and waiting a monarch to find,
Who thought that their King should have enter’d in
	state,
And shown Himself truly Messiah the Great!
"He came to His own," but they scorn'd to endure
The presence and precepts of one so obscure.

With proof upon proff of an era divine,
The Pharisees tauntingly call'd for a sign;
Blam’d Beelzebub, even, for all that Christ done,
And counted Him only “the carpenter,s son"
Yet with all, Jesus stem’d envy’s turbulent tide
From the hour of his birth to the day that He died.

The pious elite, the select “uppcr ten,"
Look’d down from their height on the Savior of men; 
But their jealousy sensed and it nourished their spleen,
That a wonderful man was the strange Nazarene;
Still they questioned, while hating him all, that they
	could,
“Can there comdont of Nazareth ought that is good?”

“The Kingdom of Heaven comes without observation.”
A Christ couldn't please a perverse generation,
Or force them to welcome the dawning of light,
Whose deeds were all evil, befitting the night;
“If a prophet had risen, indeed, from the dead
Such a people would ne'er have believed what he said."
[Column 2]
And wherefore should Jesus from bondage redeem
Such an Israel, and crown them with glory supreme?
Why wrest from the Romans, a bigoted brood,
Or exalt the self-righteous who thirsted for blood?
Not for this came the Christ, at so fearful a cost,
But to seek and to ransom the humble and lost.

Oh! merciful Christ; for humanity's sade-
If no reputation Thyself didst Thou make,
Or seek for applause, or a recompense ask,
So holy Thy alms and so hard was Thy task
The highest on earth, yea, a God in disguise: 
“Prince of Peace" Thou wert humble, and patent and 
	wise.

Lord! we fain would remember Thine own it behooves
To “be wise e'en as serpents, and harmless as doves.”
Though 'tis needful to suffer for righteousness' sake,
May we needlessly never an enemy make;
Give us judgment, O Lord! make us wise as obedient, 
For prudence is power and 'tis often expedient.
					EMILY H. WOOD MANSEE.
S. L. City.


