RAL ADDRESS.

 	I must say, for one, that I was pleased and
gratified with President Cleveland's Inaugural
Address (with only one exception. This I can
well understand, having looked upon the sub-
ject in the same way myself at one time), and
expecially the reverence he manifests to his pa-
rent, and also to the sacred volume upon which
he took his oath of office. I always feel to honor
and respect a person who will be controlled by
the rules given in that sacred volume. I feel a
confidence, if they are governed by those laws,
they will make righteous rulers. This book
tells us "When the wicked rule the people
mourn."
	My sincers desire is, that not only President
Cleveland, but also the Senate and Representa-
tives of Congress, will heed and seek the spirit
of inspiration, by which the Bible was written.
Too many throw it aside as a mass of contra-
dictions, because they have no other spirit but
that of the world to read it by. Those who ig-
nore the one will most assuredly deny the other,
because they pride themselves so much in the
powers of mind which they possess, and forget
the kind Providence who endowed them with
this power, and who will call them home shortly
to give an account of how they spent their time
in this school, or probation, as one may choose
to call it. Do they believe all the wicked will
be turned into hell, or make one with all the na-
tions who forget God?
	In reading the History of Benjamin Franklin,
we learn that he recommends prayer to God,
who will assist to settle all questions more per-
fectly. Such men are wise Senators, because
God rules our destinies. But you ask, is not
Congress pursuing the same course, and are we
not serving God when we crush plural marriage
out of the land? Well, I will answer: Plural
marriage has been a severe test in proving who
is a Saint and who is not; and you know the
Scripture tells us that the Lord will have a tried
people. We must prove ourselves worthy of
Him if saved by Him. You will remember
what our Savior said, John xiv 16-17, "Even the
spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive,
because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him;
but ye know him, for he dwelleth in you, and
shall be in you."
	Now allow me to tell you—some of us have
learned that when we are in possession of this
spirit, we are not the same persons that we are
without it. It may truly be called the Comfort-
er, for it heals the wounds which sacrifices make
—wounds that would not be, if we all possessed
this spirit. It seems if all were in possession of
this good spirit there would be no sacrifices.
	We learn from St Paul, Galatians iv 29, "He
that was born after the flesh persecuted Him
that was born after the spirit; even so it is now."
So Paul ought to know, for he served the first
faithfully, before receiving the latter. Accord-
ingly we learn both lessons, as our Mother Eve
designed we should.
	We must possess great nobility of character
to keep the higher law, even that of our Savior,
which will bring a reign of peace on the earth,
because the one who possesses this good spirit

[Column 2]

will sacrifice, in a measure, as far as circumstan-
ces will permit, to one who is ignorant of the
same, hoping that someday he will see his own
errors, when standing before his Maker.
	We are a self-sacrificing people. Did not the
Lord say, "Gather my people together, those
who have made a covenant with me by sacri-
fice?" For what purpose was this? To bring a
reign of peace upon the earth.
	This is to be our Savior's mission when He
comes again. There must be a people prepared
to meet Him. Who will be prepared if there
are none who strictly obey His laws? Are the
whole world becoming infidels? Do none of the
churches of Christendom believe in the Savior's
rules, which will bring a reign of peace on the
earth? Must we be always afflicted, because we
do believe this and are trying to govern self
under all circumstances, according to the laws
given by the Lord of heaven and earth. This
must eventually produce a reign of peace, while
those who do not apply their minds to this rule
cannot expect peace, or the smile of an allwise
Providence. This may well be called the high-
er law—So high that only a few try to reach it;
but those who do find by its precepts they ob-
tain the spirit which gives them more nobility
of character than they could otherwise possess.
	Much may be said upon this subject, but a
hint to the wise is sufficient. I do not counten-
ance infidelity Let us have fidelity to God,
fidelity to our parents, and also to all who
bear rule in righteousness, and no infidelity at
all. These are my sentiments—a few simple
facts given in simplicity.
	M. E. KIMBALL.
March 12, 1885.

