DEAR BRETHREN:
	The times are so big with events, and the
anxiety of everybody so great to watch them,
that I feel somewhat impressed to write often-
er than I have done, in order to give you more
of the "strange acts" of this region.
	I have just returned from Independence, the
seat of war in the west. About a dozen of our
brethren, among whom were Bishop Partridge,
Elder Corrill and myself, were subpoened in
behalf of the state; and on the 23rd of Feb.,
about twelve o'clock, we were on the bank op-
posite Everetts' Ferry, where we found Cap-
tain Atchison's company of "Liberty Blues,"
near fifty, rank and file, ready to guard us into
Jackson County. The soldiers were well armed
with United States Muskets, bayonets fired, etc.,
and to me the scene was "passing strange"
and long to be remembered; the martial law in
force to guard the civil. About twenty-five
men crossed over to effect a landing in safety,
and when they came near the warehouse they
fired six or eight guns, though the enemy had
not gathered to witness the landing. After we
were all across and waiting for the baggage
wagon, it was thought most advisable to en-
camp in the woods, and the witnesses, with half
the company, marched nearly a mile towards
Independence to build night fires, as we were
without tents and the weather cold enough to
snow a little. While on the way the Quarter
master and others, that had gone on head to
prepare quarters in town, sent an express back,
which was not very pacific in appearance.
Captain Atchison continued the express to Col.
Allen for the two hundred drafted militia, and
also to Liberty for more ammunition; and the
night passed off in warlike style, with the
sentinels marching silently at a proper distance
from the watch fire.

[Column 2]

	Early in the morning we marched, strongly
guarded by the troops, to the seat of war, and
quartered in the block house, formerly the
tavern stand of S. Flournay. After breakfast
we were visited by the District Attorney, Mr.
Reese, and Attorney General Mr. Wells. From
them we learned that all hopes of criminal
prosecution was at an end. Mr. Wells had
been sent by the governor to investigate, as
far as possible, the Jackson Co. outrage, but
the bold front of the mob, bound even unto
death, (as I have heard) was not to be pene-
trated by civil law, nor awed by executive in-
fluence. Shortly after Captain Atchison in-
formed me that he had just received an order
from the judge that his company's service was
no longer needed in Jackson County, and we
were marched out of town to the tune of Yan-
kee-doodle in quick time, and soon returned to
our camp without the loss of any lives. (This
order was issued by the court, apparently, on
account of the speedy gathering of the old
mob, or citizens of Jackson County, and their
assuming such a boisterous and mobocratic ap-
pearance.) In fact much credit is due to Cap-
tain Atchison for his gallantry and hospitality,
and I think I can say of the officers and com-
pany that their conduct as soldiers and men is
highly reputable, so much so knowing as I do
the fatal result had the militia come, or not
come; I can add that the Captain's safe return
refreshed my mind with Xenophen's safe retreat
of the ten thousand. Thus ends all hope of
redress, even with a guard ordered by the
governor, for the protection of the court and
witnasses.
	Before a crop is harvested it becomes ripe of
itself. The dreadful deeds now done in Jackson
Co.. with impunity, must bring matters to a
focus shortly. Within two or three weeks
past some of the most savage acts ever wit-
nessed have been committed by these bitter
branches. Old Father Lindsey, whose locks
have been whitened by the blasts of nearly
seventy winters, had his house thrown down,
after he had been driven from it, his goods corn,
etc. piled together and fire put to it, but for-
tunately, after the mob retired, his son extin-
guished it."	*	*	*	*


