AN ADDRESS TO THE LADIES'
		 CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION
	There are so many at the present time that
take an interest in Utah. So much has been
written and said  about us as a people, it almost
seems superflous to write or say any thing more;
in fact we are become as a city set on a hill
that cannot be hid; and we can, no longer be
called the isolated Mormons.  And if those
who make it their business to write and talk
about us would only do so with a spirit devoid
of prejudice and a desire to investigate our
principles and speak of them truthfully, we
would court such investigation and they would
know us better as a people, for our desire is to
let our light so shine before men that they, see-
ing our good works, may cease to traduce, and
perchance find something that even the would-
be-reformers of the age may consider worthy
of praise and imitation.
	But instead of an impartial investigation of
our principles, we are continually maligned
and misrepresented, and our rights are taken
from us.  At one time the cry is, the poor, de-
luded, suffering women of Utah; let us set them
free and they will gladly leave husband, broth-
er and father and come to us, no matter how
steeped in vice we may be; no matter if we are
drunkards or gamblers or how impure our lives;
they are ready to break asunder every tie that
binds them and come to us, if they can only es-
cape from the thraldom which binds them to
their oppressors.
	Civilization came into our midst and women
have plenty of opportunities to leave the ranks
of Mormonism and embrace the Sectarian re-
ligionsof the day; but unfortunately for this
grand scheme the women of the Church of
Latter-day Saints are, for the most part, pretty
well informed as to the merits of the different
religions of the day, for have they not, many
of them, come from their midst, and they are
well acquainted with the workings of the sys-
tems of so-called Christianity.
	They were also given the right of the ballot,
which they knew how to use for their own best
interests.  And so the cry is changed, and in
place of the sympathy there seemed to be a
disposition on the part of our Christian friends
to persecute and to even incarcerate them in
prison for being faithful to their covenants,
their husbands and their God.  Call the present
state of things by what name you will, it is
nothing more nor less than a religious persecu-
tion.  Christian ladies’ associations are formed
that fan the flames of intolerance and persecu-
tion, and raise the hue and cry against the
dreadful state of things said to exist among
the hated Mormons, when their greatest crime
consists in seeking to obey the commandments
of God and striving to raise the human race
from the pit of infamy and degradation into
which so many of them have fallen.  Surely
there is work enough for all philanthropists,
and for all the Christian Ladies' Associations,
and for all those ministers who profess to be
the followers of Him who went about doing
good; who condemned not, but said, “Let him
who is without sin among you cast the first
stone."  Yes, you may safely leave the women
of Utah in peace to raise their children in the
paths of honesty and virtue, and betake your-
selves where you are needed—to the haunts of
vice and misery in the great cities of the east,
where thousands suffer and die every year in
the lowest depths of misery and woe, with no
kind hand or voice near to lift them up or
smooth their dark passage to that bourne from
whence no traveler returns. Where innocent
children are continually destroyed to cover
the shame of the authors of their being, or
perhaps to escape the responsibility of matern-
ity other means are resorted to which are a dis-
grace to this Christian land.
	Now, in no way is the downfall of a nation
brought about so quickly as in this, and little
children are forsaken and thrust out into the
cold world, and often have no place to lay
their heads, until they become so familiar with
crime that they are fit subjects for the reform
school or the felon’s cell.  Yes, seek them out;
save the little children from a life of degrada-
tion and sin.  And if any of the fallen Magda-
lenes of society should desire to return to the
paths of virtue, do not pass them by and say,I
am more righteous than thou; but lend them
a helping hand and teach them a better way.
Then will you indeed perform a good work,
and the blessing of them that were ready to
perish will come upon you, and: when you shall
stand before the judge of all the earth these
things will be remembered, for He has said
He will judge every man according to his
works.
	We, the women of Utah, wish to be a band
of reformers.  We set our faces against the de-
moralizing and degrading vices of the age, in
whatever form the hideous monster may raise
his hydra head, whether it be in the gilded
palaces of pleasure of the rich and great where
o hides his frightful mien under silken cur-
tains and garlands of flowers, or whether it be
in the habitations of the lowly where he sets
his snares to betray the innocent and the con-
fiding.  And vice is dressed in its softest and
most insidious garb, and too often takes advan-
tage of the best affection of his victims to over-
come their virtue and lead them to their de-
struction; and when she learns too late the na-
ture of the monster she has cherished in her
bosom, the unfortunate victim is often led to
commit other crimes.  And alas!  she is fallen
indeed.  Shall we follow her in her
downward path and trace her step by step un-
til she reaches the last depths of misery and
sin?
	Oh, we would not willingly know any of
these things.  We would rather close our eyes
and shut out the dreadful sight; but our duty
compels us to raise our voices that the blood of
this generation be not required at our hands.
To save the fallen, to comfort the afflicted, to
teach the erring the way of life and salvation,
is the peculiar work of the women of the
Church of Latter-day Saints.  Therefore be-
ware how you fight against this thing called
Mormonism, lest you should be found fighting
against God.
