OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.
	"And, behold, there is none other place ap-
pointed than that which I have appointed, nei-
ther shall there be any other place appointed
than that which I have appointed for the work
of the gathering of my saints until the day
cometh when there is found no more room for
them; and then I have other places which I
will appoint unto them and they shall be
called stakes, for the curtains or the strength
of Zion.
	"Behold, it is my will that all they who call
on my name and worship me according to my
everlasting Gospel, should gather together and
stand in holy places, and prepare for the revel-
ation that is to come when the veil of the cov-
ering of my temple in my tabernacle which
hideth the earth shall be taken off, and all
flesh shall see me together. And every cor-
ruptible thing, both of man or of beast of the
field, or of the fowls of heaven, or of the sea,
etc. Behold, here is wisdom concerning the
children of Zion, even many, but not all, they
were found transgressors, therefore, they needs
be chastened, etc."
	Now, in the revelation are some very great
promises to that little handful of exiled Saints,
and to their children, who had been driven
from their homes and scattered hither and
thither, wandering among strangers, without
shelter, and destitute of food and comfortable
clothing, threatened, at every turn, with death,
and suffering many afflictions because of their
religion. This is the kind of a people the
Lord is going to restore to their inheritances in
the land of Zion, including all the faithful, and
no other people need think to intercept them,
for the promise is to them and their children,

[Column 2]

whether they live or die, if they are faithful.
And I see no promise to any people inheriting
that holy land and building up the Zion of our
God, who have not suffered persecution. (I
understand the Josephites are gathering to In-
dependence, Jackson County, with the inten-
tion of building up Zion.)
	"The scattered Saints in Missouri commenced
the year of 1834 with a conference, which they
held in Clay County, on the first day of Jan.,
at which Bishop Partridge presided. After
transacting much business, relative to comfort-
ing and strengthening the scattered members
of the Church, it was resolved that Lyman
Wight and Parley P. Pratt be sent as special
messengers to represent the condition of the scat-
tered brethren in Missouri, to the presiding
Church in Kirtand, and ask their advice.
	The following are extracts of letters written
by the Presidency in Kirtland, on the 22nd of
Jan., 1834:
	There is a prospect of the eastern churches
doing something pretty handsome towards the
deliverance of Zion, in the course of a year, if
Zion is not delivered otherwise.
	Though the Lord said, this affliction came
upon you because of your sins, polluting your
inheritances, etc., yet there is an exception of
some, namely, the heads of Zion, for the Lord
said, your brethren in Zion begin to repent,
and the angels rejoice over them, etc.
	You will also see an exception at the top of the
second column of this revelation; therefore this
affliction came upon the Church to chasten
those in transgression, and prepare the hearts
of those who had repented for an endowment
from the Lord.
	We shall not be able to send you any more
money at present, unless the Lord puts it into
our hands unexpectedly.
	There is not quite so much danger of a mob
upon us as there has been. The hand of the
Lord has been stretched out to protect us."
	"You purchased your inheritances with
money, therefore, behold you are blessed; you
have not purchased your lands by the shedding
of blood, consequently you do not come under
the censure of this commandment, which says,
'If by blood lo your enemies are upon you,
and ye shall be driven from city to city, give
yourselves no uneasiness on this account."
	The following revelation was given Feb. 29,
1839, concerning the redemption of Zion,
which can be read in the Doctrine and Coven-
ants, but is too good to be entirely left out
here:
	"Verily I say unto you, my friends, behold I
will give unto you a revelation and command-
ment, that you may know how to act in the
discharge of your duties concerning the salva-
tion and redemption of your brethren who
have been scattered from the land of Zion, be-
ing driven and smitten by the hands of mine
enemies, on whom I will pour out mine wrath
without measure, in mine own due time, for I
have suffered them thus far, that they might
fill up the measure of their iniquities, that
their cup might be full; and that those that
call themselves after my name might be
chastened for a little season with a sore and
grievous chastisement, because they did not
hearken altogether unto the precepts and com-
mandments which I gave unto them. But
verily I say unto you, that I have decreed a
decree,which my people shall realize inasmuch
as they hearken from this hour unto the coun-
sel, which I, the Lord their God, give unto
them.
	Behold they shall, for I have decreed it, be-
gin to prevail against my enemies from this
very hour; and by hearkening to observe all
the words which I, the Lord their God, shall
speak unto them; they shall never cease to pre-
vail until the kingdoms of the world are sub-
dued under my feet, and the earth is given
unto the Saints to possess it for ever and ever.


[Column 1]

	But inasmuch as they keep not my command-
ments, and hearken not to observe all my words'
the kingdoms of the world shall prevail
against them; for they were set to be a light
unto the world and to be saviors of men, and
inasmuch as they are not the saviors of men
they are as salt that hath lost its savor, and is
therefore good for nothing but to be cast out
and to be trodden under the feet of men.
	But verily I say unto you, I have decreed
that your brethren, who have been scattered,
shall return to the land of their inheritances
and build up the waste places of Zion, for after
much tribulation, as I have said unto you in a
former commandment, cometh the blessing.
Behold this is the blessing which I promised
after your tribulations, and the tribulations of
your brethren, even their restoration to the
land of Zion, to be established no more to be
thrown down. Nevertheless if they pollute
their inheritances they shall be thrown down,
for I will not spare them if they pollute their
inheritances.
	Behold, I say unto you, that the redemption
of Zion must needs come by power, therefore
I will raise up unto my people a man who
shall lead them like as Moses led the children
of Israel; for ye are the children of Israel and
of the seed of Abraham, and ye must needs be
led out of bondage by power with a stretched
out arm; and as your fathers were led at the
first, even so shall the redemption of Zion be:
therefore, let not your hearts faint, for I say
not unto you as I did unto your fathers, mine
angel shall go up before you, but not my
presence; but I say unto you mine angel shall
go up before you, and also my presence, and in
time ye shall possess the goodly land."	*	*
	Joseph continues: "Thus while the press
was mourning, the work prospering, the Saints
rejoicing in the east, troubles changed and mul-
tiplied in the west, as may be seen by the fol-
lowing letter, written by W. W. Phelps:
	Clay Co., Mo., Feb. 27, 1834.

