BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY. 

(Continued.)

	My husband wrote:  "Saturday, 26th. This
being mother's birthday, father this afternoon
procured his large glass, which has been in the
family for years, and each one of the family
was called upon to give some sentiment or wish
in favor of our mother.  The "union" or meet-
ing did not last above an hour, but it was the
most satisfactory festival that I ever recollect
to have spent in that brief space of time."
	The circumstance above mentioned is very
fresh in my memory, as is also the following, 
which transpired on the evening of January
1st, 1847:
	"This evening Bro. Kimball again gave up
his room for the purpose of dancing.  Brigham
and some of his family were present, beside a
numerous assemblage of brethren and sisters. 
This evening, like the Christmas one, passed off
finely under the direction of O. P. Rockwell, 
and every one departed to their homes about
one a.m., apparently well pleased and gratified
with our scene of festivity."
	Sunday the 3rd.  By invitation my father
went and preached at Bro. John Scott's house, 
in Bishop Evan's ward, a number of his family
attending. 
	On the 5th Horace, Wm. and Porter started
on horse-back for the rush bottoms, in com-
pany with three other brethren who were going
with wagons to Bro. Lathrop's camp (who was
there to take charge of the cattle that were sent
to the rush bottoms) with provisions.  Our
boys went for the purpose of driving back some
beef cattle - cows and calves, etc., but the weath-
er was so excessively cold that they conclud-
ed to return without them.  
	Horace says: "The only house there, we
stayed in, which was a miserable hovel indeed, 
our bones the next morning feeling the effects
of the unevenness of the puncheon floor. *
Having breakfasted as we had supped the
night before, in the open air, we started for
home, where we arrived towards evening."
	By this time there was considerable snow on
the ground, and "Thursday, 7th,' wrote Horace, 
"was by far the coldest and most snow of the
season.  We could chop wood at the door
scarcely five minutes without freezing."
	He wrote on the 13th, "This evening had
quite a convivial party at Bro. James
Smithies', consisting of all the male members
of the family."- Meaning my father's family. 
	Monday, the 18th, he speaks of making out
a "list of the members intending to travel in
the 2nd company, under H. C. Kimball, in the
ensuing spring.  John Pack and myself went
round to warn them to meet at the Council
House to-morrow night for organization.  The
first company, under Brigham Young, meet
there this evening for the same purpose, This
evening a fire was discovered under the hearth
in Bro. Kimball's room - we took down the
better half of the chimney in order to get at
the fire, which we  put out and then rebuilt the
chimney, this taking till half past four in the
morning.  Brother Kimball felt very thankful
that the fire did not occur in the night when
we were all asleep, as there were five or six
pounds of powder in a chest near the fireplace, 
in addition to the danger incurred by the fire
otherwise. 
	"Thursday, 19th. * * This even-
ing, pursuant to agreement, a large number of
those who had attached themselves to the sec-
ond company under H. C. Kimball, met at the
Council House on Main St. Bro. O. Pratt
first rose and read the names of those who had
already given in their names, which were 200
in number.  Bro. Kimball then arose and said
that he had not called them together exactly

[Column 2]
for the purpose of organization, but to give
them some instruction, and to let them know
by what rules they must abide if they wished
to go in his company.  He then proceeded to
state that those who wished to go with him
must prepare themselves to obey the laws of
God, and forbear from stealing one from an-
other, also swearing and other things prohibited
by the Celestial Law, and those who could not
make up their minds to abide by the precepts, 
had better never start from this place, but go
into Missouri where they belong. 
	"A revelation on the will of the Lord was
then read by O. Pratt, as received through
Prest. Young, pertaining to the rules and reg-
ulations by which we are to be governed during
our journey in the ensuing spring.  There are
to be companies of tens, fifties and hundreds, 
each company with a captain at its head, and
these to be controlled by a president and two 
counselors. 
	"The revelation embodied or contained the
remarks made by Bro. Kimball and the others.  
A vote was then called whether the people
would covenant to obey the precepts therein
laid down, which passed unanimously.  Prest. 
Young also made some few remarks substan-
tiating what Bro. Kimball had said.  Another
thing spoken of was that every individual who
went on the journey should to the utmost use
his influence in assisting the widows and wives
of those in the army, also to remove, lest their
cries should ascend up to Jehovah against us. 
After some other business of minor importance
being transacted the meeting was dismissed
with a benediction by Bro. Kimball."
	"Wednesday, the 20th.  Fair weather with
"sunshine clear."  The Twelve held a council
at Wm. Kimball's room to-day."  Thursday
he speaks of being busied in taking the names
and list of the property of those who had at-
tached themselves to Bro. Kimball's company."
And for two or three days after he was en-
gaged "writing on the list of company 2nd."
On the 23rd he makes mention of his wife's
sickness, which prevented him from attending
meeting at the Council House.


