EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It becomes our painful duty to transmit to you the
sad intelligence of the death of our beloved sister, Lois
Barnes Pratt, wife of Bishop John Hunt, who departed
this life, through an accident of being burned, March
9th, 1885. Sister Hunt was born March 6th, 1837, in the
Town of Ripley, Chatauqua Co., New York. She was
baptized when eight years old in the Mississippi River.
When quite small her father, Elder Addison Pratt, was
called on a mission to the Society Islands, and was ab-
sent several years. Her mother, Louisa B. Pratt, with
her four little daughters, passed through all the persecu-
tions of the Saints, without her husband's help, while
he was away laboring as a missionary, and crossed the
plains, driving her own team, with the assistance of a
small boy, and arrived in the valley among the first, in
President B. Young's company.
	When in her thirteenth year Sister Lois Hunt went
with her mother and sisters to join her father on his
second mission to the Society Islands. They remained
there one year and a half. She could talk and sing in
the Tahitian language. When they returned from their
mission they remained in California, where she became
acquainted with and was married to John Hunt, July
4th, 1857, by Wm. J. Cox.
	She was the mother of eight children, six daughters
and two sons, all of whom are still living. She was
chosen Second Counselor to Sister Willmirth East,
Stake President, July 12th, 1880. When Sister East
moved away she was chosen First Counselor to our
Stake President, Sister Emma S. Smith, Septembe
18th, 1883.
	She was a noble, generous woman. She could truly
be called a leader among us; especially, by her example,
influencing us to be punctual and prompt at our
meetings, encouraging us to be faithful in looking after
the sick and needy, teaching us to be charitable to each
other; always a peace maker, and was one who could
always see some good in every one. As her husband
was our Bishop and father, she was also our mother.
	The following Resolutions of Respect we feel to unani-
mously adopt.
	That, inasmuch as our Heavenly Father has seen fit
to take from our midst our dearly beloved sister, who
was ever faithful and true,
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Relief Society,
do deeply mourn our beloved President, and that we
condole with her husband and daughter, who are absent
at this time, and with every member of the family, in
this their great loss: but while weeping together, we feel
to look beyond this vale of tears to the happy home
above, and to the time of rejoicing when the faithful
will all be reunited again. And, be it
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to the mourning family, that a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT, and also that a copy be preserved in our Stake
Record.	(Signed)
	EMMA S. SMITH,
	MARY J. WEST,
	LUCY H. FLAKE,
	JANE FREEMAN,
	PHEBE KARTCHNER.
Snowflake, Apache Co., Arizona, March 13th, 1885.


