	HER APPROACHING BIRTHDAY.

	This is the last Wednesday I shall ever see,
in my fifteenth year! Four days more will
make me sixteen! How swift time flies! Twelve
months have rolled round since I last saw this
day, and it seems, as it, were, but yesterday;
every day, nay, every hour and minute brings
us nearer to our latter end.  A few years more,
and I shall have passed the meridian of life; 
every appearance of youth will then be for-
ever fled, if it should please heaven to spare
me to that time. There is something very
solemn,to me,in seeing or doing a thing for the
last time! I shall never see this day again, but as
I grow in years, and The cares arid troubles of
this life come upon me, may heaven grant that
I may grow in grace; may I be enabled to do
my duty in every station of life in which it
shall please God to place me; may I do my duty
to my dear father and mother, and also to him
who seems destined as the companion of my
life. If voluntarily and deliberately I choose
to make him such,I am bound by the strongest
ties do fulfill so sacred am engagement; may
God in His infinite mercy assist me in this
most essential part of my duty. In adversity
and affliction may I look up to my Heavenly
Father for comfort and support; and in pros-
perity may I never forget my duty. To be
virtuous is my heart’s desire. "May God, who
knows my heart, grant that I may be so; may
I be willing and even desirous to leave this
 world when God, in His infinite goodness,
 shall see fit to call me, may I be prepared to
quit this world, that I may meet death with-
out fear or amazement; may I be admitted in-
to that heavenly kingdom, where only the vir-
tuous can be admitted, there to dwell forever
in blest eternity. Make me, O Lord, to know
Thy will, and guard me from the road to ill.
Teach me Thy ways, and grant that I may 
never on myself rely, nor think my wisdom
will suffice to guard me through this world of
vice. No, let me ever, ever pray for Thy pro-
 tection night and day.


