QUARTERLY CONFERENCE.

	Relief Society Quarterly Conference, Salt Lake
Stake, was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assem-bly Rooms, Friday, March 20th, 1885, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horns presiding. Her Counselors, El-
mina S. Taylor and Helen M. Whitney, were
both present in the morning. After the usual
opening exercises and reading of minutes of
previous Conference, reports were read from
thirty-seven branches, showing all to be in a
prosperous condition.
	Prest. Horne gave counsel to the Relief Society
in regard to their duties, and urged them to be
energetic and persevering; take care of the poor,
comfort the distressed, alleviate sorrow and heed
the commandments of God. Advised the sis-
ters to give to the Deseret Hospital, and in all
things to observe strict economy, remembering
God had made every economy in nature so that
there should be no waste. She also urged the
secretaries to take pains to prepare correct re-
ports, and that it was expected each branch so-
ciety should be represented in the Conference; if
not convenient for the President, one of her
Counselors, if possible, that they might hear the
instructions given for their benefit and help.
	Coun. H. M. Whitney addressed the meeting:
Alluded to her absence from the meetings be-
cause of sickness, but her desire was to be with
them and do her part; referred to her recent
visit to the Tooele Conference, in company with
Sister Mary Ellen Kimball, and spoke of some
of the instructions given there by Apostle
Lyman. She spoke upon charity and forgiveness
towards one another, and upon the principle of
plural marriage, relating an incident in her own
experience. Made other good remarks.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing,
"Lord, dismiss us," etc. Benediction by Rachel
R. Grant.
	Afternoon session: Opened with the usual
exercises, when the meeting was addressed by
Counselor E. S. Taylor.


[Column 1]

	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. Phebe W.
Woodruff, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Mrs. Wilcox, Mrs. R. M. Carrington, Mrs. H.
T. King, Mrs. Grant and Mrs. Horne each
spoke upon subjects calculated to impress the
minds of the sisters with a due sense of the ob-
ligations resting upon them as Latter-day Saints
the momentous events now transpiring with
this people, the need of becoming more self-sus-
taining, and of withdrawing our patronage
from those who were seeking to deprive us of
our rights and privileges, and to bring upon us
desolation and misery, because of our religious
belief and practice, the training of the children
of Zion and the education of the mind and
heart in the principles of the Gospel and in
everything pertaining to our life and well being
here upon the earth, and our exaltation in a fu-
ture state.
	At the close of the meeting Conference ad-
journed for three months.  Singing, "Haste,
glorious day," etc.  Benediction by President
Horne.

	The Primay Quarterly Conference of this
Stake of Zion was held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Saturday, March 21st, 1885,
commencing at 10 a.m., Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson
presiding. Singing, "Come, children come,"
etc. Prayer by Sister R. M. Carrington. Sing-
ing, "Jospeh Smith's first prayer." A little
girl from the Third Ward sang a song. Minutes
of previous Confernece, and reports from the
several Associations, were read by the Secretary,
Miss Bessie Deane. Several little girls from the
Thirteenth Ward sang "Our Father in heaven,"
etc.; a little girl from the Fourth Ward read a
manuscript paper, entitled "The Children's
Helper;" Recitation, by little Minnie James of
the Seventh Ward; Dialogue, "The Deacons,"
by two boys from the Fifth Ward; a flute solo,
by a little boy, seven years old, from the
Twelfth Ward. Prest. Clawson expressed her
pleausre at the number of reports received, and
also that the exercises had been so well rendered,
and spoke of her intention to have a Fair for this
Stake the coming summer. A little girl recited
a piece, entitle "False Alarms."
	Sister M. L. Horne addressed the children on
keeping the Sabbath day holy, speaking the
truth and other important matters. A little
girl from the Seventeenth Ward sang a song
entitled "Charity."
	Sister Carrington spoke upon prayer—had
great faith in the prayers of the children; urged
them to pry for the authorities of the Church
and those in trouble at the present time, and
made other remarks.  An organ solo was then
given by a little girl from the Twentieth Ward.
	Coun. Lydis Ann Wells rejoiced at the large
attendance, adn the improvement manifested
in the children; told them to try and learn some-
thing every day; exhibited some very interest
ing charts; thought every Association should
have them, as they would be very instructive.
Gave notice that the officers meeting would be
held the last Thursday in every month, at the
residence of Prest. Clawson, and exhorted the
officers to attend. Recitation, by Eva Barfoot,
and a song by three girls of the Twenty-first
Ward; a little girl from the sixteenth Ward
gave a recitation, after which Conference ad-
journed for three months. Singing, "Lord,
dismiss us," etc. Benediction by Sister E. B.
Wells.

	Y. L. M. I. A. Conference—On Saturday, at
2 p.m., the Quarterly Conference of the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations of
Salt Lake Stake convened in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms. There was a large at-
tendance, the hall being crowded. Counselor
Mrs. ria Y. Dougall presided. After the usual

[Column 2]

opening exercises, Stake Secretary, Augusta J.
Crocheron, read the minutes of previous Con-
ference, and Assistant Secreatary, Mrs. Minnie H.
James, read reports from twenty associations,
which made a very satisfactory showing. Sis-
ters M. Y. Dougall, Elmina S. Taylor, M. I.
Horne, Minnie H. James, and Elders George H.
Taylor and S. Hill addressed the conference;
their remarks were instructive and encouraging,
and general good feeling prevailed.
	Sister E. S. Taylor in her remarks referred to
the reading of the Christmas Idyl in the Logan
Conference of Y. L. M. I. A., and said it was
pleasure to hear a young lady read so grand a
poem with such a true idea of its merrits and
force.
	The following resolutions were presented and
unanimously adopted:
	"Whereas, there is being carried on in this
Territory, by a clique of despicable schemers, an
inhuman warfare against the peace and liberties
of the Latter-day Saints, in conducting which
the rights of its victims and common decency
are trampled under foot; and,
	Whereas, We view the course of these con-
spirators against the rights and privileges of our
relatives nad friends with abhorence; there-
fore,
	Be it resolved, that from this time forward,
we will abstain from giving any business pat-
ronage to the promoters of, and active partici-
pants in, the crusade against the Latter-day
Saints, and all those who assist it or give it their
sympathy; also,
	Be it further resolved, That we will in future
make our purchases from our friends only, and
so far as lies in our power, give home manufac-
ture [-] goods the preference over those imported,
and use our best endeavors to sustain such
manufacture."
	The Conference then adjourned for three
months.


