THE WOMAN REVIEWS AND JUDGES THE GIRL.

Girl I bless thee! as I gaze upon the features 
which thy miniature presents to me the fifteen

﻿
summers had revolved above thee; I feel to
draw a pen picture of thy early days, for sure-
ly they were not the days of common child-
hood; thy spirit was born mirthful, playful,
gay, yet thoughtful, pensive often sad, the ef-
fect of organization and temperament; over thy
early youth hung a dark cloud, arising from a
too precocious mind, that fed too much upon
its own vitality, and in a too secluded life; none
knew those mental trials—you trembled lest
any one should discover them; they were entire-
ly between thyself and thy Father, God. How
often hast thou risen in the silent watches of
the night to pray that the dark cloud might be
lifted off thy soul, that faith and hope and the
light of heaven might beam upon thee. Strange
a very child should be so tried, and all so Silent-
ly; that life, present and future, should appear
a blank! She felt happiness was not for her,
yet how she yearned for that which she felt to
be her native element, and feeling herself so
capable of enjoying it, but she decided in her
childish code that she would strive to be good,
and would do her best; that she might have
peace. Strange decision for a girl with just her
thirteen years.
	Never ceasing time rolled on. Months, years
passed; Womanhood,Wifehood,Motherhood,yet
through all brooded still that dark and heavy
shadow. Prayers seemed of no avail, yet still
she never ceased to pray, but with a differ-
ence.
	Years rolled on, and then silently, almost
impreceptibly, this cloud was gradually lifted,
and silently, almost impreceptibly, peace and
happiness grew upon her; the morbid feelings
seemed to evaporate,and she realized an exceed-
ing great reward was given to her, and then
the knowledge came that the hand of God
had been upon her for good, that He
held her firmly, but yet gently and lov-
ingly, giving her strength to decide as did
holy Job, ‘’Though He slay me, yet will
I put my trust in Him.” The woman, in
this her hour of judgment, asks herself, “Has
the mature life done justice to the girl? Again
she looks upon the silent miniature and solilo-
quizes: Girl, I bless thee! The woman blesses
thees gazing on thy painted image with its
fifteen summers now before her. 

She feels almost thou art her peer, 
She feels below the promise of her youth; 
Forty long years, and great experience,
She can in judgment sit upon her youthful type,
Call in the witnesses and justly weigh
The being now beneath her scrutiny;
And memory rises up and shows how 
Good, and pure, and honorable thou wert,
With just thy fifteen summers o’er thy head
No craven In thy soul wert thou, 
But high horn in thy heart and Brain;
And though so long beneath that heavy cloud,
And though thy prayers appear’d as though unheard,
Through all the scenes that should be sunny youth,
	Thy soul still served by waiting for thy Lord;
And looking back at this late period
The woman knows fall well that God was there,
Preparing thee in His high school for that
Momentous time when He would call, and thou
In meekness should respond, Father, “lo, I come”
To be enrolled with Saints of Latter-days,
And be a member in the First born's Church.

	May the child be mother to the woman
	 March 16 1885.			JUSTITIA..


Queen Victoria expected to leave Windsor
for Germany on the 30th of last month and
remain on the continent three weeks.


