
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 17.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1888.			No. 1.


I WILL ANSWER FOR MY PEOPLE.
"I will answer for my people" was the virgin monarch's
	boast,
When flatterers bade her guard her life amid her armed.
	host.
"My throne is based on England's love, or her crown
	would worthless be;
And my sceptre well might tremble were its guardian—
	Tyrrany."
'Twas well, heroic maiden, that eagle glance of yore,
And well the grovelling sycophant might quail such tones
	before;
Yet I have heard a loftier tone, a nobler glance I've seen,
Than e'er decked earthborn majesty, or graced a courtly
	scene.

"I will answer for the people in danger's darkest hour,
I will answer for the people against each hostile power;
I will answer for the people, for their every care is mine,
And I ask no odds of mortal foe, my mission is divine."

Such were the sounds that thrilled around when Zion's
	Prophet rose,
Knowing the hearts that trusted him would bleed for his
	repose;
And prouder, loftier, was his mien, aye, more than kingly,
	when
From all that vast assembly came as from one soul—Amen.

Aye, answer for thy people, thou, their lion heart of truth,
Answer again, again, again from hoary age to youth,
We will not own another chief, nor brook another’s sway
Until His voice shall will it so, whose word all Saints obey

		We do not call thee Chieftain,
			We do not name thee King,
		We wreathe no brilliants, for thy brow,
			No ermine round thee fling,
		And thou art crowned, but with the light
			That gilds the throne above;
		Thy lofty spirit's wealth of power,
			Thy people's clinging love.
	
		We do not call thee Chieftain,
			Thy cheek would flush to hear
		Earth's titles woven with thy name,
			And whispered in thine ear,
		As well presume to gild the sun.
			Or paint earth's brightest flowers;
		We only call thee Brigham Young,
			We only call thee ours.

		We do not call thee Chieftain
			Let golden crowns be wrought
		For brows unhallowed by the touch
			Of soul ennobling thought,
		But thou—the purest, holiest prayer
			To listening angels flung,
		Is whispered when thy people breathe
			The name of Brigham Young.
						SARAH E. CARMICHAEL.
Bowery, August 8, 1857.


[Column 1]
[For the EXPONENT.]
		THE WOMEN OF UTAH.
				PART I.
	At the recent Woman’s Jubilee, held in
Washington, lengthy, complete and interesting
papers relating to women in almost every
sphere and walk in life were read. A perusal
of these papers naturally forces one to consider
the relative advancement of women in a single
community; and we doubt if any one com-
munity can excel Utah in this respect. In
comparing woman’s work in Utah, with
woman’s work in other lands, it is only just to
first of all mention the Relief Society, as the

[Column 2]
greater degree of woman’s progress in this
Territory is due to this organization, yet we do
not forget there are other societies of women
here, and take great pleasure in presenting to
our readers a brief report of their aims and
works.
	It is now forty years since the first
convention of women was held at Seneca
Falls, N. Y., and the first organization of
Mormon women has a much earlier date,
but it is not our intention to dwell on
this organization, for it is already fa-
miliar with the readers of the  Exponent,
scarcely a number appearing which does not
contain reports from these societies—their
organizations and reunions—for wherever a
sufficient number of Saints are, there one is
sure to find a Relief Society helping to build
up and strengthen the community.
	The first subject discussed at the Washington
Convention was philanthropies, the one great
and almost inexhaustible subject for the women
of Utah, for as philanthropists are they best
known. It is better, however, to arrange our
topics as they grew, and therefore first consider
the subjects discussed by Anna M. Worden
and Esther L. Warner.
 
WOMEN IN THE GRANGE AND WOMEN AS 
				FARMERS.
	As all the world knows, Utah was once a
vast desert, and the first thing for the pioneers
to do was to build homes and cultivate the
earth, that the necessaries of life might be
provided; in those days, with no railroads, no
roads of any kind, save the one trail marked
by their own tired oxen and worn out wagons,
it was impossible to obtain supplies from any
source than the earth, where their homes were
chosen.  So, all the settlers became farmers,
and as new comers were yearly arriving, and
the farms in Salt Lake valley grew, families
spread out in other directions and began sub-
duing the soil in other valleys, toiling unceas-
ingly, until now nearly the whole Territory is
covered with farms and homesteads. We have
all from earliest infancy heard of the Pilgrim
Fathers, and after considerable time and reason-
ing the world acknowledges that we also had
Pilgrim mothers. It is a well known fact
whenever there is work to do the women—
wives and mothers—stand by and aid the men
—husbands and fathers. It is perfectly
right that they should, and we always find they
are pretty welcome, too. No one doubts that
the Pilgrim mothers helped with the clearing,
the planting, the tending, though their names
have not been handed down the ages as the
first great settlers of the old bay state. It
used to be enough to mention the men, but
sometimes the father and husband dies, and the
woman has her own home to make, and the
day is fast approaching when woman's name
will also be hurled down the ages, and her
praises sung in different climes. Here, in this
far off west, we claim Pioneer Fathers and
Pioneer mothers, too, who might have had for
their motto the beautiful words which the
Rev. Annie H. Shaw addressed to the young
women in her Sunday sermon— "If you have a
bit of Truth, hold fast to that which God has
given you; let no power, no injustice, no ob-
stacle, no scorn, no opposition, let nothing ex-
tinguish this flame.”  Against all opposition,
all persecution, all persuasion, these mothers
held fast to the "bit of Truth” that God had
given them; with their husbands and fathers

[Column 3]
they braved the perils and trials of the great
desert journey, and in these valleys have toiled
hard and long, building homes and cultivating
the earth, and now when the valleys are
blossoming and verdant, and these brave,
white-haired women can walk in their own
gardens, gathering fruit and flowers, each one
truly feels that she has been given the fruit of
her hands, and her own works praise her in
the gates. Owing to the Relief Society, there
is no particular need in Utah of a Grange
Association, as this Society alleviates the
monotony and humdrum of farm life, and
affords those advantages to women in Utah
that the Grange does in other places. Our
women are alive to the necessity of caring for
the grain, and have a separate organization for
that purpose; they at present are the owners
of many well stored granaries. 
		WOMEN IN EDUCATION.
Among the first company, the pioneers, were
only three women—Clara Decker Young,
Ellen Sanders Kimball and Harriet P. Wheeler
Young—whose names should ever be remem-
bered and claim a glorious place in every page
relating to the early history of Utah. There
were no children; but the September following
five hundred families arrived. In the south 
western division of Salt Lake City remains
now a single ten acre square, without building
or improvement of any kind save a garden and
the gardener’s lodge; this square is familiarly,
known as “The Old Fort;” here were the first
homes, rude log walls surrounding the entire
square, secure and plain, the doors and win-
dows facing an inner courtyard, the outer walls
without opening or ornament of any sort, in
this way protecting the dwellers from wolves
and other wild things with which the country
then abounded. Simultaneously with the
constructing of homes, the subduing of lands,
began educational work in Utah; it was like
all things else a difficult and rather unpleasant
undertaking, as there were so few conveniences;
but it became the task of a noble and bright
young woman—Mary Jane Dilworth, afterward
wife of Bishop F. A. Hammond—to collect in
her brother-in-law’s tent, even before the houses
were built, and instruct the children who were
playing away the sunny hours in the court-
yard of The Old Fort. This was the first
school in Utah, and the first school teacher
was a woman. This same Mrs. Hammond,
nee Miss Dilworth, in 1849 accompanied her
husband to the Sandwich Islands, and there
gathered around her the native children, teach-
ing the first English school in Laie. Return-
ing again to Utah, she became a pioneer in
settling other parts of the Territory, and
opened in three different places the first school.
Her Sister, Mrs. Rebecca Riter, in speaking of
her work, very touchingly says, “She was in-
deed a pioneer in all her movements after ally-
ing herself with the Church, in teaching, in
helping to settle new countries, in the mission-
ary field, in philanthropy, and even in her
burial, being the first person laid away in the
new graveyard at Huntsville.”
	As other companies of children arrived in
the valleys and the people spread out in other
directions, other schools were started, and the
demand for teachers became greater. Mrs.
Emmeline B. Wells, our editor, pleasingly tells
of a little school of 65 kept by herself in
1851-2 in a log building in the upper part of
the city; how without desks, charts, black


[Column 1]
boards, or scarcely two books of the same kind,
she toiled as an instructress. The task was
not so easy then as now, when we have all the
modern appliances for school rooms, and large,
comfortable, airy buildings. The remunera-
tion was likewise trying, one bringing a piece
of salt pork, another a bucket of flour, a third
perhaps a skein of yarn, to repay the ever toil-
some task of school teaching; the work was
unceasing; the day spent in the school room
and the night in planning and working for the
morrow, whole nights being spent in cutting
fancy paper patterns and writing thereon verses
of her own composition, in blue ink, and
working on bits of card-board, mottoes in vari-
ous colored silks for rewards, to urge the
children to diligence and good behavior. This
is but a sample of the work school teachers
had in those days; it is amusing now, but was
trying then. Since the first winter, when Miss
Dilworth opened the little school in the Old
Fort, there has ever been a school, and a woman
teacher in Utah. Here, as throughout the
west, co-education has always existed. The
University and all the schools, district and
Church, barring, of course, the Catholic, ad-
mitting to all departments women as well as
men, and as educators, women have almost the
same advantages as men. The Territorial
University has but once in its long history
boasted a woman teacher, notwithstanding the
graduates from the normal department average
very nearly equal, there being from the years
1876 to 1888, eighty-five female and one hun-
dred and twenty-eight male graduates, certain-
ly a fair showing in an institution controlled
throughout by men. Then, as in all other
things, the wages are less (women, you know,
don’t require as much as men), if they do men
don’t think so, and we have not yet any women
trustees. The average salary per month for
teachers the past year was, males, $46-85
and females, $26-70. The total num-
ber of schools in the Territory, primary,
intermediate and mixed, was 467; the number
of teachers, 561, with 60 assistants; out of this
number 258 were women teachers, and 48 as-
sistant women teachers, giving the men the
small majority of nine.
Women have certainly done a great deal in
advancing education in Utah; to the Misses
Cook, Mary and Ida, is due the grading of
schools; this would doubtless have been done
had they not come, but not so early. When
they opened in the Social Hall of Salt Lake
City a common school, they found a sad mix-
ture of books among their pupils, some far ad-
vanced in one study and far behind in others,
no order, no uniformity, no regular books, and
they had quite a struggle to grade their school
properly, the pupils rebelling against such an
unheard of system. I remember very well how
I cried when Miss Cook placed me way down
in the second reader, for I was one of the very
best readers in school, read so well that my
previous teacher had allowed me to skip the
third reader altogether, and I read now in the
National Fifth. This was my argument, and
I ventured to prove it by reading something
very hard for her benefit, and as for geography,
why I was always head, but, alas! for arithme-
tic, that was the point on which we were to be
graded, and, well, compound numbers was my
highest limit, and Miss Cook thought “it
wouldn’t hurt me to begin at the beginning.”
Tears and arguments were alike unavailing;
the school had to be graded, and our knowledge
of arithmetic told where we ought to be. How
we “hated” it then, but as the school assumed
that order and uniformity obtainable only in a
well graded system, even, the pupils began to
admire it and work more diligently in all
studies, not slighting one for another more
pleasant and easy. Miss Cook’s school became 
an example, and the Territorial Superintend-
ent, then Robert L. Campbell, began grading 

[Column 2]
the district schools, frequently calling on Miss
Cook for advice and assistance. There were a 
few, some eighteen or twenty, as fine teachers 
as Utah can boast trained under Miss Mary 
Cook. Miss Ida's work, after leaving the 
University, where she was one year principal,
has been mostly confined to Cache Valley.
She held for some years the position of principal 
of the Brigham Young College, the largest 
school in northern Utah, and was elected to 
the office of school superintendent for Cache 
County, but owing to existing laws against 
women holding office was not allowed to act; 
the word male in the organic act prohibiting 
women as teachers from occupying positions of
emolument and trust. Where women have 
the greatest success is among the children, 
and there they should claim the entire con-
trol. 
The Kindergarten has been very gladly re-
ceived wherever it has been started, but it has 
not yet extended far in the Territory. If 
more of the young women teachers would 
spend some time in learning the method and 
introduce it in their schools they would not 
only afford themselves much pleasure, the 
little ones much happiness, but would gladden 
the hearts of the mothers as well. Some of 
the different church schools have a Kinder-
garten department, and Miss Dickey,  of the
Presbyterian school, herself a student of 
Baroness Maronholtz Beulow, the friend and 
pupil of Froebel, has trained some few teachers, 
who now keep most successful and interesting 
Kindergartens in different parts of the city. 
Such a delightful and pleasing thing ought to 
grow most rapidly in a community which
boasts so many beautiful and bright children.
We have, it is true, the Primary Association 
for the children, which in the prettiest possible 
way instils into the little hearts bright truths,
instructs the little hands to do nice work, and 
fills the little souls with happy thoughts; busy
little working bees, indeed, are the children of 
the Primary; but these Associations are held
but once a week, and the remainder of the 
time the little ones are not very much em-
ployed, unless, indeed, they are old enough for 
the district schools. If to each district school 
a Kindergarten might be attached, it would 
certainly be a great benefit to the community.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
			PRAISE.

	"If you've dear, sweet thoughts about me,
		Why not whisper them to me?
	Don't you know 'twould make me happy,
		And as glad as glad can be?
 
     These sweet, simple lines have lived in 
memory in contrast with the old adage that,
"Praise to the face is a shame and disgrace,"
ever since my youth.  The latter was handed
down to my grandmother through a long line
of her ancestors, who regarded it of almost
equal importance with one of the ten com-
mandments, but my grandma took one step in
advance, and her ideas became somewhat
modified, and many a word of approbation I
received when my work was well done, which
wonderfully increased my desire to please her.
     In by-gone days, I think praise and flattery
were considered synonymous terms, and one
was as carefully guarded against as the other.
We may err in judgment and differ in taste re-
garding a friend's good qualities, attainments,
beauty, etc., but we should not be deemed
guilty of flattery, because our honest opinions 
do not agree with those of others.  We are all
delightfully human, battling continually with
the sins that do so easily beset us, but within
every soul is a spark of Divinity, which, if not
suppressed with false teachings, and continues,
will naturally prompt us to praise whatever
gives us pleasure or inspires our admiration,
and it is one of the easiest and most natural

[column 2]

ways of making each other happy as we go
toiling along in doubt and discouragement,
sometimes feeling that we are a failure—just
one word of praise from a friend renews our
courage, gives us new hope, and enables us to
struggle on with better success; but when every
energy is strained to do our part well, and no
word of approval comes to us as a sweet re-
ward, we grow weary and disheartened; 'tis not
always enough to know that God knows and
will reward us in His own due time; we want
our associates, on whom so much of our happi-
ness depends, to give us loving assurances.
We expect our loved ones to take everything
for granted after one or two assurances; but
the ardent lover is continually expressing his
regard; he leaves no room for doubt or thoughts
of indifference or negligence; but after marriage
the wife may listen in vain for the words of
praise and smiles of approval that once won
her heart.  And wives, too, forget that though
man may effect to ignore many outward ex-
pressions of the thoughts within, yet he is the
exception who does not appreciate it and grow
more tender and affectionate under the influence
of approval.
     Say a pleasant word to a friend, pay him a 
neat compliment, and see how ingeniously he
will guide after conversations into a repetition
of what gave him a comfortable impression of
himself.  A lady once remarked to me, that
she once entertained the idea that to win
friends she must impress people with a good
opinion of herself, but now she thought it
necessary to give people a good opinion of
themselves if we want to win their hearts.  It
is the general opinion that people become too
easily satisfied with their efforts if praised;
it may be so with ignoble natures, but the
noble and intelligent, which form a large por-
tion of mankind, will increase their diligence
to attain excellence, and if, perchance, praise
has been misapplied, it will not produce satis-
faction, but sorrow that their virtues were over-
estimated.
     Husbands and wives, strive to appreciate all
the good in each other, nor allow yourselves to
withhold what you deem a just reward of
praise. 
     Mothers, fathers, never let your little ones
hunger and thirst for your approval when they
have done well, it will be one of the best safe-
guards in the hours of temptation that multiply
around childhood and youth.
     Friends, be liberal in your approval of each
other, if you possess any external or internal
grace or virtue.  Will it not highten your own
opinion of it, and will you not guard it with
greater care if it give pleasure to your friend?
Be honest and sincere, and always tell your
loved ones just how much you love them; don't
let them starve to death for the expressions of 
love that would make this earth a paradise.
Inscribe your appreciation on their hearts
instead of on their tomb stones.  What is post
mortem love?  The flowers that beautify the
coffin would have eased many a heart-ache,
satisfied many a longing.  Do your work well
—use tact and good judgement—and do not
disgust and offend by clumsiness where you
aim to please; learn to praise in a graceful
manner, and make all in love with the princi-
ple.
						SUN FLOWER.


Miss Edith Martineau, a daughter of Rev.
Dr. James Martineau, has just been elected an
associate member of the Royal Society of 
Painters in Water-colors.
	The Queen of Sweden has been ordered by
her doctors to get up early, make her own bed,
take care of her own room, work in the garden
and take long walks.  Under this regimen, her
health is visibly improving.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THEIR INHERITANCE.

O, far away in a sea-side home
	Two anxious parents knelt;
The prayer that trembled on their lips
	Deep in their hearts was felt.
"O, Father, open Thou the way
	That we our home may leave,
And 'mid Thy people grant we may
	Inheritance receive."
As morning light through darkness breaks,
	He opened out the way;
Sweet was their joy to leave the world
	And parting words to say.
Through toilsome months and dang'rous paths
	In gratitude they still
Kept on their way, and closer strove
	To learn God's holy will.
Ne'er sad complaints nor vain regrets
	Uprose to cloud their light,
His voice came nearer to their souls,
	His purpose to their sight;
Aye! distance shut out worldly ills,
	 And industry made warm
Their hearts with sweet content and closed 
	Their homes 'gainst need and storm.
Fair Zion grew, and 'round their home
	Dear children laughed and played
By purling streams in peaceful streets,
	Or in their orchard's shade.

The Temple's grandeur, over spires--
	O'er all the valley rose,
That House so dear to faithful Saints,
	So envied by their foes.
From east and west the strangers came
	In cars of splendid ease,
Nor knew, nor cared, the journeys old
	That had been borne by these;
Nor thought, nor cared how years of toil
	Part of our being grow;
How gold is powerless to bind
	Our rights, though wielded so—
They only saw the city fair,
	As in its Sabbath dress,
And weighed the stranger's pleasure more
	Than the Saints' faithfulness.

From lip to lip the tidings flew,
	A thousand times retold;
(Aye! woe lurked 'neath the smiling face
	And want beneath the gold;)
"For years of toil and scant returns—
	To ease us in our age,
Here is a fortune in an hour
	For this small heritage."
From mind to mind the impulse spread,
	And hands met over gold
That ne'er had felt each other's touch
	Had TRUTH not wealth been told.
And, looking out from open doors,
	How soon the fact was met—
With lonely sense—a stranger's face,
	With cold aversion set. 
On fever's bed a darling lies,
	And pleads with homesick pain,
"I want my own dear little room
	And playmates back again;
I want to see our orchard trees
	And play around our door,
And go to school and Sunday School
	Just where I did before.
O, buy it back, I want to see
	The Temple.  Ere I pray,
I look and miss it every hour—
	Why did we come away?
I passed the home where I was born,
	Bessie and Johnnie, too,
A great, proud man was standing there,
	And caught me looking through;
So stern he looked and spoke to me,
	I hurried quick away.
O, pa, that man might drive the Saints
	If trouble comes, some day.
Please buy it back, the roses hang
	Right at my window now,
I know the birds have come to build
	In ev'ry apple bough;
My swing is by the cherry tree,
	And where my trap I set

[Column 2]
For busy sparrows, they are thick—
	Pa, try and buy it yet?
The grass ain't thick here like 'tis there,
	Calo and us can't play
Half good; Oh, everything's so strange—
	Why did we come away?
Pa, when I am a man I'll work
	And you shall work no more.
Pa, you forgot; the home was ours,
	You said so long before;
We'd not have sold the home from you,
	When you were weak and old—
You let him have it from us all—
	For just—a bag—of gold!"

Vain tears fell on the dear one's face,
	They sobbed, "O, cruel fate
That brings its penance though we feel
	Repentance all too late"

Years hurried on, and changes great 
	Had made the world like new;
Chaos and avarice had fled,
	And men were proven true.
A noble city reared its spires
	Above its foliage green,
And shaded walks with silver streams
	Showed here and there between.

Day after day before its King
	In humble rev'rence came
His subjects, each and every one
	With dearest hope and claim;
The gift of an inheritance
	In Zion the redeemed;
How sweet the hope! and trials past
	Of trivial moment seemed.
O, wondrous were the blessed words
	Unto the faithful told,
Each was repaid with justice true
	For loss, a thousand fold.
But others! angels pitying turned,
	And hearts turned faint away,
Who but received the fruit of seed
	Sown in a bygone day.
Faded and tattered wanderers
	From Truth, they had come back,
And saw the harvest of their days
	Barren as desert track.
"Inheritance? Not masters now,
	Servants ye are enrolled—
Inheritance that once was  yours
	Ye parted with for gold!"
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


A FEW THOUGHTS.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I feel it my duty to write a few lines for our
valuable paper. Our position at the present
time is one of vast importance to the ladies of
Utah, in connection with the noble ladies who
are boldly taking the lead in giving woman the
opportunities for development that has been
denied the past generation, and that it is only
a question of time when it will be proved be-
yond a doubt that woman was intended for
something higher than a mere household drudge;
that her capabilities, if cultivated, were equal
to man’s; that God placed her by the side of
man for a helpmate in the fullest sense of the
word, a counselor and friend, with the same
faculties, the same aspirations, the same love
of goodness, of purity, of virtue, of chastity,
of order, of true government and executive
powers that man has, and which are being
demonstrated in the movements of a few noble,
women, that are leading out from under the
bondage of centuries, and seeking the advance-
ment and elevation of their sisters, the women
of the world; and we, as the daughters of Zion,
hail with delight the bright future. Being in
possession of the Spirit of the Lord, we realize
the importance of advancement and education,
and we will lend our aid and all the ability the
Lord has given us to this end.
	We hope the ladies in this great movement
will see the necessity of an unbiased platform,

[Column 2]
and let the spirit of equal rights guide their
deliberations, that no partyism may destroy
the good that can be done by unity of action.
We endorse the resolution of Mrs. Robinson,
and do not see the necessity of an apology for
Utah ladies being admitted as delegates. The
ladies of Utah have been striving for years to
enlighten their sisters on these points. They
have an organization which extends all over
the world, wherever there is a church with
this object in view—the purification and eleva-
tion of the human family—and to raise women
to a higher plane of intelligence; and we are
proud of the success that has attended the
efforts, although but few, in comparison to the
whole, have realized that it is incumbent
in all to help, but hope in the future that more
will come to the front and help to sustain our
paper—the EXPONENT—and through that
medium exchange our ideas, and cultivate the
talents the Lord has given us,and also dissemi-
nate the principles of advancement and culture
to one another, thereby giving confidence and
and support to those who are in responsible
positions.
	We all have duties to perform as Saints.
All who have received the Holy Ghost have
the right to teach the principles of the Gospel
and help defend the rights of the sisterhood,
according to the light we have received. We
have only to read the speeches of the cultured
women of the world to convince us what can
be done if we will only throw off the yoke of
custom and superstition by which we have
been surrounded, and come to the rescue of the
daughters of Eve, and seek to purify and ele-
vate ourselves to that high standard of cultiva-
tion, which it was designed we should arrive at
by our Father in heaven, when we left His
presence to become mothers of the sons and
daughters of men. The time is fast approach-
ing when we will be called on to give an ac-
count of stewardship, and how shall we account
for the opportunities lost? or have we done our
duties faithfully in all things? Have we used
the talents given us to the glory of God? Have
we not rather hid our talents under a bushel?
Have we dealt unjustly with one another, to
court favor, or judged unjustly our brother or
sister? Do we not know that “judgment is
mine, saith the Lord, I will deal out judgment
and equity?” and as we sow so will we reap.
	The exigencies of the times demands an ex-
amination of ourselves, and let us ask, have
we a testimony of the truth of the Gospel
that is indisputable? If not, do not think to
deceive ourselves into the belief that we can
stand the trials that are in the near future,
without a true knowledge, and lose no time in
seeking it by mighty faith and prayer, until
we obtain it, for we will have to contend with
foe without and foe within, and if our faith
cannot be shaken in one way, it will be tried in
another. We have nothing to support us if
we do not live so that the blessing of God and
His Spirit cannot be and abide with us; let us
live pure before the Lord, be chaste in our
thoughts, and let true charity abide in our
hearts; let us sacrifice ourselves to the noble
work of advancement and culture of ourselves
and our sons and daughters; teach them the
laws of life and health, of the chastity and
purity of the races; let no false idea deter us
from this duty, as we will be held accountable
if we neglect this all-important subject; let us
not forget that our children are our glory, and
we must try to save them; although they falter
by the way, ever be on hand to lift them up;
never by unkindness give them a push down-
ward, but let salvation and true charity be our
motto.
	Praying for the advancement and success of
all that tends to the elevation of humanity,
I am,
	Your sister in the Gospel of peace,
						S. A. Fullmer.
Orangeville, Emery Co., April 20, 1888.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	Salt	Lake City. Utah.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	-	June 1, 1888.


[Column 1]	
	MANTI TEMPLE DEDICATION.
	The dedication of the Temple at Manti in 
Sanpete Co., on the 21st day of May, 1888, was
one of the greatest events in the history of the 
Church.  The Temple itself is the grandest one 
yet built in this dispensation, and standing, as it 
does, in the side of the mountain, which has been
partly cut away, that this house of the Lord might
be established there, gives it a prestige which no
other Temple has, and the terrace work below 
adds grandeur to the surroundings, and gives to 
this superb edifice a very imposing appearance.
	In the early morning of the day of the dedica-
tion, hundreds of people were gathered at the 
east entrance of the Temple waiting for the open-
ing of the doors, that they might enter into that
sacred place.  One could not help feeling before-
hand the importance of so great an occasion, and
to be peculiarly impressed with its solemnity and
significance.  It was calculated to make the
thoughtful look backward to the ages long past,
when the ancient people of Israel builded temples
unto the Most High, and recall the events recorded
in history of the Lord's dealings with them from
time to time, and to awaken in the mind many
lofty and inspiring themes, both of the past and
present.  The Latter-day Saints have been taught
much concerning the objects to be accomplished 
and the ordinances to be performed for the living
and for the dead in Temples, and it fills the
human soul with the most sacred and heavenly 
emotions to contemplate these wondrous subjects,
revealed only through prophets and men of God
to those who are willing to render obedience to
divine laws and commands.  It would be a diffi-
cult task, indeed, to attempt to portray in words
the sentiments and emotions that thrilled the
hearts of the Latter-day Saints on the memorable
occasion of the Temple dedication at Manti, even
before they entered the doors.  Looking about on 
that assemblage of people, flocking around the
archways and doors of the building, and remem-
bering who they were, gathered from many
nations, one of a family and two of a city, and
now coming up to the House of the Lord in the
tops of the mountains, for such, indeed, it seemed,
these, and a thousand other thoughts, upon kin-
dred topics, passed quickly through the mind;
and even there one could easily fancy that the
spirits of the departed hovered near, waiting for 
the demonstrations, that were to herald the work
to be done for them in this holy Temple.
	The bands were playing in the distance, and
the music floating out in the clear morning air
arose like an orison to heaven, but above all
earthly sounds, and far more deep and inspirational,
was the whispering of the still small voice, that
thrilled every pulse and throbbed in every vein.
It was as though one stood in a holy presence of
which the soul was conscious.
	At ten o'clock precisely the doors were opened,
and very soon the hall of the Temple was filled.

[Column 2]
At the East side of the hall are the stands for the
presiding officers of the Melchisedek priesthood
in their order, and on the West side are the
stands for the presiding officers of the Aaronic 
priesthood.  In these stands the brethren were
seated according to their rank in office.
	In front of the stands, at the East side of the
hall, were the music stands, the organ and the 
choir.
	The dedicatory services—Apostle Lorenzo
Snow presiding—commenced by the choir singing
the good old hymn, so appropriate for the opening
of an impressive service:
	"Lord, we come before Thee now,
	At Thy feet we humbly bow."
     Apostle Lorenzo Snow then explained that at
the dedication of the Kirtland Temple a prayer,
which was given by revelation to the Prophet
Joseph Smith, was read, and said that one of the
servants of God in this day had been inspired to
write the dedicatory prayer for this occasion.
Apostle Snow then read in an effective manner
the prayer which had been given, while that vast
concourse of people bowed their heads in reverence
to the Most High, unto whom the house was dedi-
cated, in every part and portion thereof, in the 
purest and most sublime language.  At the close
of the prayer the choir sang the dedication hymn
—with a chorus, written expressly for the occasion,
by Charles Walker, of St. George—beginning:
	"Righteous God, th' Eternal Father."
	The first speaker was Patriarch John Smith.
He spoke of having been present at the dedica-
tion of the Temple in Kirtland, though only a 
child at the time, and that he had attended the
dedication of the several Temples that had been
built since that time.  Testified, also, to the truth
of the Gospel, and felt confident if the Saints
would live in obedience to the laws of God no
power should prevail against them.
	Apostle John Henry Smith was the next
speaker; spoke very feelingly of the promises of
the Almighty to His faithful children, and closed
by earnestly exhorting all present to be faithful to 
their trust.
	President John Morgan, who followed, in the
course of his remarks said he regarded the
present sight as a fulfillment of the prophecy made 
more than 2,500 years ago, that the mountain of
the Lord's house should be established in the tops
of the mountains, and that all nations should flow
unto it. The thought that friends who were dead 
were looking forth from the portals of eternity
with anxiety for the living to perform a work in 
their behalf, should be sufficient to stimulate
any one to be faithful and perform that labor
when the opportunity was afforded.
	President Jacob Gates bore a strong testimony
to the mission of Joseph Smith as a Prophet of
God, and to whom had been revealed the knowl-
edge which had been obtained of building 
Temples.
	Elder J. D. C. Young referred to his mother's
teachings, and the early impressions he received
from her; rejoiced in the building of Temples and
in contemplating the ordinances which were to be
performed in these sacred places.
	Elder Wm. F. Cahoon had attended the dedica-
tion of all the Temples that had been built in this
dispensation, except St. George.  Testified of 
the truth of "Mormonism," so called; had lived
in Joseph Smith's family in former days, and
knew him to be inspired of the Lord.  He was
baptized on the 16th of October, 1830, the year 
the Church was organized.  It was made known
to him before he was baptized that the Book of
Mormon was true, and an inspired record.
	Elder Robert Campbell felt, in contemplation of 
the history of the Church in the past and at the
present time, to exclaim, "What hath God
wrought?"  He felt positive if the Saints would
labor in union in establishing the work of God, no
power could shake them.

[Column 3]
    	Apostle John W. Taylor said he knew little of
his ancestry, but hoped to receive knowledge 
from God of those who had passed away without
knowing of the Gospel.  Spoke of a visit he had
from his brother, David John, after his death,
when he had a long conversation with him;
thought if he could have that privilege again he
could obtain much information that he desired
concerning those of whom he was now in ignor-
ance.  Related in a very impressive manner a 
dream or vision which was given him previous to
the funeral of President Young; had seen the 
whole procession, etc., in a panoramic view, and
had the characters of persons who took part 
therein portrayed to him by Brigham Young, and
that which would be their future.  Afterwards
saw the funeral in reality just as he had seen it in
vision, and the very persons that had previously 
been pointed out in the vision.  The recital was
very thrilling.
     President A. O. Smoot said, he could declare
of a truth that the Lord had accepted of the Tem-
ple, and that many thousands would have cause 
to rejoice over their deliverance through the
work therein performed.  Knew the Church
when it included but one small Stake; had
a testimony that the Lord was with Zion and 
that it would not be removed out of its place; had
never doubted or feared for the triumph of the
work for the fifty-three years past, felt assured the
time was near at hand when the promises concern-
ing the redemption of Zion would be fulfilled.
This was a blessed land and God would protect
His people if they would be faithful.  Testified
that he had heard Joseph and Brigham say,
"There would be hundreds and hundreds of tem-
ples built in this land.  "This people would grow
stronger and increase with persecution.
	Apostle F. D. Richards said his heart was full
of thanksgiving for the precious opportunity
afforded him.  The things which were from 
above were sacred and were to be spoken by con-
straint of the spirit.  On the third of next month
it would be fifty years since he embraced the truth.
Received a testimony on his way from his home
in New England to Missouri which effectually
satisfied him of the truth of the Gospel and the divin-
ity of the Prophet's calling.  To-day in the temple
were assembled representatives of all the quorums
and councils of the Church.  The erecting of
temples was of as much interest to those behind
the veil as to the living.  Ever since the site of
the temple had been selected the spirits of the de-
parted had watched with anxiety for its comple-
tion.  The magnitude of the work could be con-
ceived by a simple calculation for a few genera-
tions of one's ancestors.	*	*	*	*
	It was consistent to believe that upon an occa-
sion like the present the spirits of the faithful proph-
ets and apostles who had died should be present.
Urged the performance of ordinances for those
who had gone, and thought those who failed to do
what they could in this direction would be filled
with regret when they met their friends behind the
veil, and wish for another year upon the earth to
devote to the work.  Was but a youth in his
'teens when he became acquainted with Joseph
Smith, but knew him to have been a man of God
as also his successors in office.  Could testify that
the present apostles were increasing in knowledge,
devotion to God, and love for the people, and that
the people could safely trust them as their leaders.
Believed that the Lord as well as the spirits of
worthy men who had passed away would come 
and visit the temple and comfort the Saints by
their presence."
	The choir sang the Dedication Anthem, words 
by A. C. Smyth, selected from the prayer of Solo-
mon at the dedication of the temple at Jerusa-
lem: 
	"O Lord my God, hear Thou the prayer
	Thy
	Servant prayeth; have thou respect unto
	His prayer.


[Column 1]
	Hear Thou in Heaven, Thy dwelling place.
	And when Thou hearest, O Lord forgive."
	Amen.
	"President Canute Peterson said the present
was one of the happiest days he had ever experi-
enced.  Could testify that God would be quite as 
willing to accept of the Temple as the brethren
had been to dedicate it.  Believed that the site of
the Temple had been set apart ages before Presi-
dent Young had selected it upon which to erect
the present structure.  Did not believe there was
any chance work about our existence, or the
establishment of the Church and kingdom of
God."
	Elder W. H. Fulsom felt words were inadequate
to express his joy, and pleasure at being present
at the dedication of a Temple.  Had felt at times 
that the sacrifices made by the Saints in this
Temple district were too great; believed that his
life had been prolonged through the blessing of
God in response to a promise received in the St.
George Temple.  Felt to praise and bless and
thank the men who had labored upon the Temple.
Knew that the Temple had been accepted of the
Lord, and that His Spirit was present.
	President D. H. Wells said he had learned to
know God through the Gospel, and that the whole
world was ignorant of that fact until He revealed 
Himself unto His Prophet, Joseph Smith. "Men
existed before the foundations of the earth were
laid, but the knowledge they possessed in their 
former existence had been taken from them, and
the divine knowledge obtained in mortality had
gradually been lost through transgression.  The
ordinances of the Gospel and their object and
order were also unknown until revealed in this
age; and the same with the destiny of man.  The
saying, that no one would be lost except the sons
of perdition, would seem to imply that no woman
would be eternally lost."  Could testify from his
observation, that women, generally, were better
and more virtuous than men.  Invoked the bless-
ing of God upon the congregation.
	Apostle H. J. Grant said he enjoyed for the
first time in his life the privilege of speaking in a
Temple of God.  Nothing afforded him so much
happiness as the consciousness of God's approval
and the testimony which he had of the truth of
His work. Many throughout the world who did
not believe the Gospel were led by curiosity or
pride to compile genealogical works by the hun-
dred, for which they had no use after they were
printed.  In this way they were preparing the
way for the work to be performed in temples by
the Saints of God who were unable to obtain the
information otherwise which was thus afforded
them.  For this he felt to give God the glory.
	The choir sang the hymn of praise:
	Glorious is Thy name Almighty Lord,
	All the angels stand round about Thy throne:
	Let all nations bow before Thee,
	And declare Thy wondrous works.
	We praise Thee, we give thanks to Thee,
	We adore Thee, we glorify Thee.
	Lord, we adore Thee, we bless Thee.
	Lord, we thank Thee for Thy great glory.
	Heaven is Thy throne and earth is Thy footstool,
	Thou art King over all the world.
	Glorious is Thy name, O Lord.
	Blessing, and honor, be to God
	Forever and evermore.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow leading,—the congrega-
tion united in shouting Hosannah to God and the
Lamb, forever and forever, amen.  This was re-
peated three times, after which the benediction
was pronounced by Apostle John Henry Smith.
	At 5 o'clock the same afternoon the children of
the Saints were admitted to the Temple, that
they might behold its beauty.  The little child-
ren have been among those who have given
of their means to assist in its building,
and it seemed such a sweet and appropriate com-
pensation for them to be permitted to visit and ad-
mire the place consecrated to the Lord.

[Column 2]
	The dedicatory services were repeated on Tues-
day and again on Wednesday with some change
of speakers.
	The people of Sanpete have had a rich feast in
the Temple services, and no doubt appreciate it to
a fullness, and feel well repaid for their sacrifices
in building a house unto the Lord.  President Peter-
son and his Counselors, and Supt. W. H. 
Fulsom are happy now in the realization of their
most sanguine expectations in the completion and
dedication of the sacred edifice for which they
have labored so indefatigably and untiringly.  But
there is still work to be done in finishing the
grounds that will take much time and considerable
means to accomplish.  The Saints who are inter-
ested in the Temple will still have ample oppor-
tunity to give of their means that the surroundings
may correspond in fitness of appearance and sol-
idity to the splendid structure itself.  Truly there
is a joy and satisfaction in the building of Tem-
ples and dedicating them to the Most High.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
Ssake will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms in this city on Thursday, June 21, commenc-
ing at 10 a.m. and at 2 p.m.  Presidents or their
Counselors are expected to report the Relief So-
ciety over which they preside.  The Y. L. M. I. A.
of this Stake will hold their Conference on the
Friday following June 22, commencing at the same
hours.  The Primary Conference will be held on
Saturday June 23 in the Assembly Hall.
	Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, her son Richard and
her sister Mrs. H. Ellis, lelt this city on the 12th
of May for England to gather up the genealogy
of their ancestry. They sailed from New York
on the Steamer Circassia on the 19th of the same
month, and have probably landed ere this on
England’s shores. Sister Horne’s departure
should have been mentioned before, as we know
the sisters in various places are interested in her
welfare, and will pray for the preservation of her
health and her safe return home, when the object
of her journey has beery accomplished.


COUNT HIM WITH THE "GLORIOUS"
				DEAD.

[IN MEMORY OF ERASTUS SNOW, A FAITHFUL AND BE-
	LOVED APOSTLE OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST
	OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS.]

		For his life-long love of Truth,
		For his consecrated youth,
		For his aims that upward led,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		For his course so free from guile—
		In a cause beset with trial;
		Frailer ones, through fear have fled,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		For enduring many a woe,
		That the persecuted know,
		For his scorn of dangers dread,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		For his eloquence and aid
		Gainst oppressive power arrayed,
		For his zeal with wisdom wed,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		Staunch his soul that would not quail,
		Fast his "hope within the veil,"
		Bright the future that he read,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		Safe his counsel, true and kind,
		Sense and foresight well combined;
		Lovingly, "The Flock" he fed,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		For domestic graces rare,
		For his ever thoughtful care,


For the sunshine that he shed,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		For the mighty good he wrought,
		For the "Fight of Faith" he fought,
		For his worth of heart and head,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		Sorrowing friends, who drop a tear,
		Over one so justly dear,
		Mourn him not as lost, instead
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		Far beyond this changeful clime.
		Swells he now a host sublime;
		Far above earth's lowly bed,
		Count him with the glorious dead.
						EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake city, May 30, 1888.


"MAY THIRTIETH, THE DAY OF
FLOWERS AND MEMORIES."
	Twenty years ago, the Grand Army of the Re-
public inaugurated the touchingly pathetic custom
now observed on Memorial Day, consecrating the
30th of May to sweet and sacred tribute.  Beauti-
ful and bright is the halo which surrounds the
inspiration and patriotism born of the hallowing
influences of this day; and all the world observes
with wonder and admiration our reverence for it.
	It was Gen. John A. Logan, who first proposed
that a day be set apart to tenderly revive the
memories of the past--and of the heroes who fell
in the Great War.  The thought of such an anni-
versary touched a mighty chord of tenderness in
the hearts of the people of our land, and soon
after its first proposal Congress made Memorial
Day a national holiday.  No day has grown so
quickly, nor ripened with such strength and tender-
ness in the hearts of the people as "Decoration
Day," or, as I better like to call it, "Memorial
Day."  No thoughtful person can fail to see how,
each year, this day grows dearer to all, and takes 
on a tenderer and deeper significance.  Each year
the number of veterans who come to strew with
flowers the graves of comrades, grows less; each
year names are added to the mighty roll of those
who are "mustered out" forever; but the day will
not die; our children and their children will ob-
serve it, for never shall be forgotten the principle,
for which they fought and died.
	"O, never will the Land forget
	How gushed the life blood of her brave."
	Memorial Day has proven a wondrous factor is
welding anew the broken links of love 'twixt the 
North and the South, the "Blue" now joining the
"Grey" in the beautiful services of Memorial Day.
Afar off in lonely swamp, and in the valley 'neath
the pines, where sleeps many an "unknown" hero
nature's kindly hand, with gentle grace, has robed
the mound with vines and flowers.  So, all over
the South land to-day, nature, with her "mantle of
charity"--flowers--is covering the marks of the
hosts who fought in our great War, and redoubt
and rifle-pit are half hidden by creeping grass and
clambering vines.
	No more graceful tribute was ever paid to valor
than when Memorial Day was set apart; no monu-
ment of sculptured marble, costly bronze, nor
granite pile, can so fitly honor the memory of our
soldier-dead as the observance of this day.  We
are adding, too, as the years go by, to the
mighty roll of those who fought and died for the
Union, the names of all our loved and lost, for,
	"There is no fireside, howso'er defended,
	But hath one vacant chair."
	Time, the great healer, has laid his hand
upon the hearts of those who mourned for the
brave and true who fell in the smoke and roar of
battle, or perished in prison, or died in the hos-
pital; but never can they forget; and though their
sorrow is less keen, the memories of those thus
lost are tender and true.


O, sacred Memorial Day! when memories of
all the precious past sweep o'er our souls, and 
soften every feeling save regret; a day when we
twine the cypress and the myrtle and heap with 
freshest flowers the graves where lie buried 
many a heart and hope.

	Bring flowers to-day for the true and brave,
		Who fought for the Union and you;
	Then crown with the myrtle and laurel
		The graves of the "Grey" and the "Blue."
	Let carnage and strife be forgotten,
		And the curtains of peace be hung
	O'er all; and the blest deeds of mercy,
		O, loud let their  glories be sung.
	Bring pansies, all golden and purple,
		Like thoughts of dear faces, long gone;
	The purple, the type of the loyal,
		The gold, of an heavenly crown.
	Bring lilies and cowslips and snowdrops,
		And roses blood-red and pure white,
	With woodbine and jasmine and cypress, 
		Wreathe a crown for our "army of light."
	And the "Day" with its lesson of flow'rs,
		Shall teach the children who see,
	We honor the heroes, who saved us,
		 Our land and our Union free.
	But when with footsteps slow we tread
		The streets of the silent town.
	And on the graves of our soldier-dead,
		We gently lay our chaplets down,—

	We'll keep a few of the flowers fair,
		The heliotrope and sweet harebell,
	For households that we know full well, 
		Where Death hath taken the larger share,
	And, methinks, it will be best—to say—
		To all who mourn, Memorial Day! 
								WOODINA.
			Mell G. Woods.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AFTER THE SAD NEWS.

My little boys, my darlings, stay with me!
The postman brought this letter which you see.
I've opened it, and all its contents read;
'Tis from aunt Lissie, Grandma Greene is dead!
Oh, Lee! my first born son, so large and tall,
You're old enough to comprehend it all.
Your loving arms, close, close around me twine,
And for a moment press your cheek to mine;
And you too, Willie, you can understand,
Sit here, dear boy, and hold your mother's hand.

In years to come, with tender, sober thought,
You will recall bright truths which grandma taught.
Evan and Heber are so young that they
Scarce now remember when she went away.
Her gentle face my babies will forget,
With all its love, but I shall see it yet. 
My brothers—sisters, we shall see her still,
Oft precious dreams will her sweet presence fill;
Soothing our cares with smiles and fond embrace,
Rich with the glories of her dwelling place.

She will be near us in each trying hour,
And father too, and we shall feel the power
Of their true love, united, pure and strong;
Strengthening, guiding, helping us along;
That we may find the rest which they have found,
In that blest home where peace and joy abound.
Let us be faithful, brothers, sisters mine,
That we may meet them in that home divine;
'Twill not be long, we will with reverence wait,
For their sweet welcome at the Pearly Gate.
									LULA.


DEATH OF SUSAN K. GREENE.  

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Sister Susan Kent Greene departed this life,
April 17,1888, at her home,in Marion,Cassia Co.,
Idaho, after an illness of thirteen days.
     She was buried on the 19th; a procession fol-
lowed the remains from the residence to the
Oakley Hall, where the services were held
at 2 p.m., Stake President H. D. Haight presid-
ing.  The choir sang the hymn, “Softly beams the
sacred dawning.” Prayer by Bro. D. P.


Curtis.  Singing, "O, my Father, Thou that
dwellest."  The friends and relatives assembled
were addressed in a most consoling manner by
Brothers Moroni Pickett, Robert Wilson and
O. P. Bates.  Choir sang, "Farewell, all earthly
honors."  At the burying ground the dedicatory
prayer was offered by Bro. Cyrus Tolman.
	Sister Greene was entirely confined to the house
during the past winter on account of feeble health,
but as the genial warmth of spring came on, she 
ventured out the Sunday preceding, and on the
April fast day.  At the latter meeting she arose
and bore a powerful testimony to the truth, ex-
pressing her joy and faith in her Father's work,
remarking how thankful she was that her race
was so nearly run, that the time would soon come
when she would behold His face.
	Immediately after taking her seat her right arm
became numb and powerless.  The stroke spread
so that before night she was prostrated upon
the bed of sickness from which she never arose.
Though our acquaintance with our departed sister
had been of comparatively short duration, and
was not, perhaps, as intimate as that of many of
your readers, yet we, as a Society and as a com-
munity, had seen and known enough of her pure,
humble and faithful character to draw out our
deepest love and respect, and our true apprecia-
tion of her worth.
	And now, as a Society of sisters, we fully
realize the loss we sustain in her departure, though
it be to her gain; and we tender our heartfelt
sympathy to her many friends and relatives left 
behind, especially to her children, whom she ever
led in the straight and narrow way, and who fully
realize, better than we can tell them, that the
time will be but short when, if they will, they may
again meet her, their beloved mother, never more
to part.
				FANNIE GORRINGE, Prest.,
				F. AMELIA PICKETT, Coun.


[Column 1]
EGYPTIAN WOMEN.
BY CHARLOTTE B. WILBOUR.
No 7.
SCHOOLS AND EDUCATION.
	There are in Egypt governmental schools,
colleges, and universities for boys, Coptic
schools, and schools of religious and benevolent
societies.  At Cairo and Alexandria they are
large and well situated.  The sons and daughters
of poor foreigners attend them, and make
creditable progress.  The short time girls may
attend school, does not permit them to get
much beyond reading and sewing.  The large,
free university of El Azhar, at Cairo, has a
woman’s department for midwifery attached to
the medical school, not because the State desires
to educate women, but because the religion of
the country excludes male physicians from the
harem, except in unusual cases.  In some of
the larger towns along the river, small schools
for boys are taught by Greek priests and
Catholic monks.  Comparatively few girls at-
tend school; there is a deep seated prejudice
against their reading and understanding num-
bers, and it is considered immoral for them to
sit under a roof with strange boys, though they
may play with them out of doors.  If the girl
can read, she will not wish to bring the water,
drive the buffalo to the river, grind the doorra;
she will not work; she will be like the boy.
These reasons were many times given us by
men and boys who were opposed to the educa-
tion of girls.
	We were much interested in the mission
schools.  The American mission in its eleven
schools and colleges, teaches an average attend-
ance of 1,350 pupils, at an annual cost of
$8,000 dollars; in its six girl schools, with an
average attendance of 630, the cost of instruc-

[Column 2]
tion is but $2,600, or about $4 per girl.  Of
the 1,400 girls enrolled; 10 study physiology,
112 Arabic, 116 geography, 111 French, 248
arithmetic and the American language.  More
than fifty other independent schools scattered
all over Egypt, have grown up under the en-
couragement of the mission and are taught by
graduates of its schools.  In these an average
attendance of more than 2,000 schollars, 300
being girls, are taught at a yearly cost of $6,000.
At Assyoot our consular agent, M. Khayatt,
an Egyptian, besides supporting a school of
200 girls and boys, gives liberally to the college
and schools of the American mission.  Miss
Thompson, the superintendent teacher of the
mission schools, of Cairo, for girls, has given
us another evidence of womanly energy and
unselfish capacity.  Miss Whately has for
several years carried on a girl’s school and
earned the encomiums of her English patrons.
At the school in Luxor, we find girls in the
first class reading Peter Parley; one of them
has recently married the native teacher.  I
made every effort possible to learn the compara-
tive condition of women and girls, and my
questions to priests, consuls, town officers and
teachers as to the place they assigned to my
side of humanity, gave much amusement to my
sons and daughters.
	Among those who are doing good to the
people and educating the children, I make most
honorable mention of Pere Samuel, a Neapolitan
priest, who has spent more than twenty years
in Upper Egypt.  He has given of his time
and means to the sick and needy of every class
and sect, without stint or reward.  On our re-
turn voyage we anchored at the village of
Negadeh and spent an afternoon with the old
man in his church and garden.  We found the
church clean and cool.  More than forty years
ago he built it, a worthy work of architecture
and finish.  A Belgian lady has given him a
parlor organ, and he is organist and choir as
well as priest.  There are fine bits of old tem-
ples built into the doors and pillars, which he
shows with pride.  He said that women came
to church and were more than half his congre-
gation.  He led us to his school of seventy little
better-size boys, and three little girls. The
boys were writing on tin slates; some of the
texts were in Coptic.  The Pere told us that he
read the service in Latin, Arabic, and Coptic,
and was teaching the Copt boys the language of
their service, that they might pray intelligently.
Mr. Wilbour asked if he had ever converted
Muslims; he was quite radiant as he replied:
“I have baptized 42 Muslims in my 50 years
of service.” He said that before the British
occupation he had a school of 50 girls, but
donations failed after that began; he had to
give up with much regret, and feared that he
could never re-open it.  He resignedly added:
“But that must always be, the girls after the
boys.” Our sailors who knew him, spoke of
him as a saint who in time of epidemics, went
fearlessly among the dying and the dead, and
did his duty by all in suffering.  Grand old
man, when the work falls from his willing hands,
who shall take it up?
	We visited Muslim schools without satisfac-
tion, except to our curiosity.  Let me tell you
what I saw in one at Luxor.  The school was
found under a cornstock shed, open on one
side.  When we entered, a lively boy ran to
an elevated divan at one end of the shed, and
shouted up to the master, who was lying on the
divan with a pillow under his head.  He sat
up and looked at us with soft, dreamy eyes,
but did not recognize our salutation, though
twice repeated.  Not a ray of intelligence
passed over his handsome face; we were em-
barrassed, and eighty little faces turned toward
us in sympathy.  My daughter beckoned to
the lively lad, who came to us, and asked that
the boys might repeat a prayer from the Koran.
The monitor gave the command to the school,
and the slates were laid down and the recita-


tion began in a low voice, which grew louder
and louder every moment till the little half-
naked brown bodies rocked to and fro as
though intoxicated.  When the recitation was
over, we walked about and looked at the slates,
at the babies crowded up in a dirty corner,
made our obeisance to the statue of the Sleepy
God on the divan, and as we went out, he fell
back upon his pillow.
     In most of the Coptic and Muslim schools,
children learn a little arithmetic, reading and
writing, and some passages of the Scripture or
the Koran.  Many slaves attend the religious
and mission schools, and are often far better
educated than their masters, who take great
pride in their learning.  Copts are as frequently
sent to the mission schools as to their own, and
are very clever and intelligent.  At Cairo there is
a boarding school for girls, conducted by nuns,
where many girls spend a year, or attend as
day scholars.  In the families of the rich, a
foreign governess is employed, who teaches
French and needle-work; but girls are seldom
taught to write, as they might make an im-
proper use of their knowledge.  Teachers
agree that girls do not keep up their reading
after they leave school; the books loaned them
are often returned with the leaves uncut.  But
there have been and are some well-educated
Muslim women in the higher classes; they are
counted particularly dangerous and their ex-
ample pernicious.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE ALLOWANCE.
    
	There are few ways in which wives are made
more uncomfortable than on the question of
their personal expenditures, nor for which they
have to suffer greater humiliation.
	If they want a new dress, a pair of gloves, a
new pair of shoes, a ribbon, they must go and
enter into an explanation about it all with the
husband and very possibly before the children,
who cannot but be injured by the lesson they
thus learn concerning the dependence of their 
mother, not to mention her fallibility, which is
apt to be tolerably well exposed in the course 
of the conversation.
	Nothing, surely, can so belittle a wife, and
make her unfit to be the mate and helpmate
she should be, as to dwarf and crowd her into
cowardly suppliance for the things she fells she
must have and cannot do without.  We have
known of women whose proud spirits were so 
hurt by the ordeal, that they have worn 
their shoes to the ground and have turned and
scoured and pieced and "made over" for years,
while looking like shabby genteel beggars,
rather than ask for their right and due, while
their husbands never gave a thought to the
matter as long as they heard no complaints;
and as for themselves, wore the best the tailors
could give them; and we have known other
women who determined, after sore experience,
neither to go without nor beg, lay in wait to
rob their husband's pockets of a half dollar
this week, and a quarter that, making false
entries in the housekeeping accounts, and even
stealing and selling the hen's eggs to swell the
secret amount into a sum sufficient to keep them-
selves' and their children's supply decent, be-
coming thieves in the process, and liable to
transmit the tendency to dishonest dealings to 
children born after the habit was formed, owing
to the penury or distrust of their husbands.
	If a man is really poor, and is struggling
hard to keep his head above water, he has
some justification; but if his wife is worthy of
the name of wife at all, even then she will do
better for being trusted in the matter and not
having to run to him for every spool of
cotton.
	It was early in the power of the fathers of
these wives to have obviated, to some extent,
the difficulties of this nature, which were to

[Column 2]
surround their daughters later in life.  If, as
soon as the girls left school, the father, with
the advice and supervision of the mother, gave
to her a fixed sum, out of which, with no more,
she was to furnish her wardrobe, by the time of
marriage she would have learned perfectly how
to spend money and how to get the most for it,
and her lover would be pretty sure to have
information of the fact and be able to govern
himself accordingly, and either maintaining
the same or increasing or diminishing it as his
income required, could still have recognized
the fact, and left her that little but necessary
independence which her own purse gives every
woman.
	The wife and mother does not work for her-
self alone, but toils unceasingly for others, and
she is entitled to some other wage than love
and kindness; for what is it she does? In many
houses the wife is the only servant; she is cook,
maid-of-all-work, nurse and seamstress; she is
tailoress for the boys' trowsers, milliner for the
girls' hats; ten to one makes, if she does not
also cut and baste, their frocks; and in any one 
of these capacities it is universally recognized
for every other worker, that the laborer is
worthy of his hire.  As cook or mere char
woman, her wages would be more than a hun-
dred dollars a year with board; as nurse or
seamstress, even more, while neither tailoress or
dressmaker would have much less than a dollar
a day.  And, meanwhile, we pass over her
general management, marketing, mending,
darning, overseeing and all the rest, because
there the wages of love may be deemed suffi-
cient, and doubtless she feels them so for all,
and when she asks, it is not so much for her-
self as for the sake of maintaining the decency,
good name and good appearance, which would
be to the shame if she did not have.
	We think that husband who has any certainty
of income would do well to take into considera-
tion the subject of his wife's wages, and see if
he cannot accord to her the spending of one
unquestioned dollar, and then make, according
to his ability, some fixed allowance of money,
be it ever so small, on which the wife can rely,
and over which she can be absolute mistress.
There is not one wife in ten thousand that will
abuse the pleasant confidence; and all but that
one, will be likely to make it cover some of the
childrens' and some of the family expenses, as
well as their own; and it can be done at first
provisionally for one year or two, so that in
case it did not work well a return to the old
system of dependence and petition could be 
had.  We can hardly, however, think of a
case where it would not work well.  WIthout
doubt, any head of a house would find his ad-
vantage in this course, in the character it
would give his household, in the happy sense
of responsibility it would give his wife, and in
the relief from requests and advice in small
things which it would give himself.
	If he improved his wife, as thus he could
hardly help doing, he would be improving the
conduct of all his family and increasing the
harmony of his household.
	In the meantime, let him remember that
the wrongs done the mother, nature avenges in
the children, and where even in so small a 
matter as her clothes, that mother is a slave
and a beggar, the children are the children of
a slave and a beggar, and sooner or later are
sure to betray their descent.—Selected.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
		EAGLE ROCK, Idaho, May 11, 1888.

DEAR EDITOR:
	It gives me great pleasure to have the oppor-
tunity, sometimes, of reading your paper, and
in perusing the different articles concerning
many of our people.


If we, as young sisters, would read more of
the Bible and other Church works, we would
become better acquainted with the principles 
of the Gospel, then we would be able to answer
any question which might be asked of us.
*	*	*	Some of us may think
we study a great deal now, but I don’t think
we can study too much of the principles of
the Gospel.	
	In standing up before a congregation to
occupy a few moments, we naturally feel timid,
but the more we speak the more of that fear
goes from us. If we ask the Lord to help us
before we get up, He will do so, because we
cannot get along without the help of the Lord
at all times. He says if we will open our
mouth He will fill it. And why should we
be afraid to get up to speak? When some of
us are called on to sing or recite we sometimes
think, “Well, why didn’t they call on some one
that could do it better?” If we all were like
that, what would become of our meetings or
the young people of the Church.
	I remember when we first had an organiza-
tion of the Young Ladies’ Mutual Improve- 
ment Association, the President would call on
us to do something to take up the time; call on
one, “Well, I never sung, I know I can’t.” It
seems as though no one was interested in the
meeting. But we all know that the president
nor her counselors cannot carry on the meet-
ing alone, and if we know this, why not try 
and help them?	
	I can say that the sisters have improved
very much since the commencement of our
meetings; those who do come take right hold
and help all they can. That is some encourage-
ment for those who are presiding. If we can
only say two or three words, that is far better
than refusing. I notice in our meetings it is
very seldom any one refuses to respond; we
know a week ahead that our names are on the
programme, and why is that not time enough
for us to study our subject?
	The meeting will not improve us unless we
try and improve ourselves; if we get up from
time to time, and do not try to say a few words
more each time, I don’t think we will ever be
able to do so.
	Let us try and set an example for the younger
ones; if they think it is worthy of imitation
they will certainly take notice of our actions.
*	*	*	 We are doing as well
up here as can be expected according to the
number there is left, as the town has almost
gone away. We have twenty-two members
enrolled in the Young Ladies’ Association, and
about ten attending; one half does the work,
and the other half are quite willing to let
them do it.
	For one I feel like going forward and doing
the best I can to help others and improve
myself. 
	Your young and inexperienced sister in the
Gospel, 
	MAGGIE EVANS.


NOTES AND NEWS

	Julian Hawthorne owns the little old oak
table upon which Mary Stewart wrote her last
letter, the morning of her execution.

	At the United Labor Convention, which
met in Cincinnati on the 16th inst., the chief
point of discussion was woman suffrage. This
ended by adopting a resolution that suffrage is
inherent in citizenship, and is not to be abridged
or denied on account of sex.

	Mrs. Lide Merriweather, of Tennessee, says
that Southern men are not so apt to favor
woman suffrage as the men of the North and
West, but that when they do favor it, they


surpass all other men in the chivalrous ardor
with which they take up the idea.
	
	Mrs. Browning, though much beloved as a 
poet, is comparatively little known to the
public as a woman no authoritative and cir-
cumstantial biography of her having yet been
published. A London paper says that Mr. 
Robert Browning has nearly completed the
first portion of his "Reminiscences," which 
will include an interesting account of Mrs. 
Browning's early life.
	
	A meeting in memory of Dr. Clemence S.
Lozier was held Wednesday evening, at the 
Aberdeen Hotel, New York, Hamilton Wilcox
in the chair and Jane T Titcomb secretary.
Clara Brinkerhoff, Kate Palmer Stearns, Mar-
garet W. Ravenhill, Ruth S. Beatty Esther
Herrmann, Mrs. Mowry and the chairman
spoke on the worth of the departed. On mo-
tion of Mrs. Ravenhill, the chairman was em-
powered to select delegates to confer with other
organizations for a public demonstration and a 
permanent memorial. Miss Sarah C. Fuller
promised the co-operation of the Universal 
Peace Union.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER.

		RAMAH, Valencia Co., N. M.,
						May 9th, 1888.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	We are having a most lovely spring, after
the severest winter ever known in this place
since the Saints settled here. Our prospects
are bright and everything is promising.
	On the evening of May 2nd, a most lament-
able accident occurred here. About 8:30 p.m.
Sister Amanda Tietjen, daughter of Elder Ira
Hatch,  the well known Lamanite missionary,
left her home for about twenty minutes; return-
ing, she discovered flames bursting from the
roof, door and window, and her husband fight-
ing the fire fiend, his face badly burned in the
vain attempt to rescue their oldest child, a
lovely little girl three years and four months
old. The alarm  was given about the time Sis-
ter Amanda saw it, and in five minutes almost
the entire adult population were on the scene,
battling with the raging monster. It was all
her two brothers could do to keep the poor
mother from rushing into the burning building,
where she would surely have perished. The 
cries of relatives of the little one, the roar of
flames, the agonized shrieks of the distracted
mother, make up the most heart-rending scene
it has ever been my lot to witness, and I trust
such another I may never see. By almost
superhuman efforts the body of the little one
was recovered in better condition than was at 
first expected.
	No blame can be attached to the mother,
who is most devoted to her children. The
cause of the fire is unknown. A more faithful, 
earnest worker in the Relief Society, Y. L.
Association and Sunday School would be hard
to find. The stricken family have the sym-
pathy of the entire community. 
	As ever, your sister in the Gospel,
					PHEBE A. MCNEIL.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The soul is the fountain of love.—Amlieus.

	It is impossible to be a hero in anything un-
less one is a hero in faith.—J. G. Jacobi.

	Old men who have loved young company,
and been conversant continually with them,
have been of long life.—Lord Bacon.


The world is full of poetry; the air is living 
with its spirit, and the waves dance to the
music of its melodies.—J. G Percival.

	A passion for flowers is, I really think, the
only one which long sickness leaves untouched
with its chilling influence.—Mrs. Hemans.

	Wealth is a weak anchor, and glory cannot
support a man; this is the law of God, that
virtue only is firm, and cannot be shaken by a
tempest.—Pythagoras.

	Unless a variety of opinions are laid before
us, we have no opportunity of selection; the
purity of gold cannot be ascertained by a
single specimen.—Herodotus.

	We account the scriptures of God to be the
most sublime philosophy; I find more sure
marks of authenticity in the bible than in any
profane history whatever.—Sir I. Newton.

	The charities of life are scattered every-
where, enameling the vales of human beings
as the flowers paint the meadows; they are not
the fruit of study, nor the privilege of refine-
ment, but a natural instinct.—G Bancroft.

	There are two modes of establishing our re-
putation; to be praised by honest men, and to
be abused by rogues; it is best, however, to
secure the former, because it will be invariably
accompanied by the latter.—Colton.

	Heaven and God are best discerned through
tears; scarcely perhaps are discerned without
them. The constant association of prayer with
the hour of bereavement and the scenes of
death suffices to show this.—James Martineau.

	When you have made a mistake don't look
back at it long. Take the reason of the thing 
into  your mind, and then look forward. Mis-
takes are lessons of wisdom. The past cannot
be changed. The future is yet in your power.
—Hugh White.


﻿To all it is not granted to live long, but
each man has the power to live well. It is not
days, but deeds that measure life; the wicked
perish e’en before they die, the faithful though
departed live always.—After Seneca.


OBITUARY.

	We are called upon to mourn and record the death of
our beloved sister, Eliza Ann Snyder Haight, who de-
parted this life in Cedar City, May 24th, 1888, at 2 p.m.,
after a lingering illness of over three months. Sister Haight
was born October 22nd, 1815, in the Town of Sempronius,
Cayuga County, State of New York, and was married to
Isaac Chancy Haight in the early part of 1837, to whom
she bore seven children, four of whom survive, two sons
and two daughters. In 1838 she with her husband received
the Gospel as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and were baptized at the same time by
Elder Peltiah Brown, after which their house became a
home for the Elders in their travels to and fro with the
message of salvation, and in the beginning of the year
1839 they moved with their llttle daugther Caroline, who
was a little over a year old to Nauvoo, Illinois, where
they met with the Lord's Prophet, Joseph Smith, with
whom they soon formed an acquaintance, and about whom
Sister Haight delighted to talk. They remained in Nauvoo
during the persecution, and left with the exodus of the
Saints in 1846, landing at Winter Quarters, making it their
home till 1847, when they crossed the plains with Presi-
dent Brigham Young and company, and located in Salt
Lake City. In 1853 the family moved to Cedar City, Iron
Co., where Sister Haight has since made her home. She
was a firm advocate of the principle of celestial marriage,
and lived in it since 1849. She waa a true and faithful
wife and mother. A few days before her departure she
called her children and grandchildren together, and after
kissing and blessing each one, she admonished them all to


be faithful and true to God and His cause, tears of peni-	
tence and joy visible on every hand. Sister Haight was
greatly loved and respected by her acquaintances and
relatives. We do not mourn as those without hope, but
we will miss her loving counsels, her happy face and cheery 
voice. God bless her forevermore; she has gone to receive
a crown she has faithfully waited for.
	With feelings of respect,
			Your sister in the covenant,
						CAROLINE K. A. JONES.


EARLY IN MAY
THE DRS. SHIPP
Design to issue the first number of 
The Salt Lake Sanitarian,
A monthly journal of
MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
DEVOTED TO THE PREVENTION AND CURE OF
disease and the Promulgation of the Laws of
Health and Life. It will contain 24 pages of interest-
ing reading matter, upon these important subjects, and
it will be our aim to keep fully abreast with the times.
The DRS. SHIPP, 	-	-	-	Editors. 
TERMS $2.00 A YEAR. AGENTS WANTED.
See Prospectus for full particulars. 

	Encouragement from those who will sustain us in
our undertaking is earnestly solicited, and we would
be pleased to hear from you. We will spare no effort to
give you a first class journal in every particular.
Address	DRS. SHIPP,	
	59 S., First East Street, Salt Lake City.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS. 
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1888.	No.	2.


IN THE TWILIGHT.

On a calm, still summer evening,
	When the day had almost sped,
And the sun was nearly setting,
	And spring and youth had fled,
I heard the voice of waters,
	I heard them rippling flow,
Like the wailing notes of sorrow,
	Or the murmurings of woe;
For my soul was sad and weary
	With its load of earthly care,
And the "still small voice" was silenced
	By the wailing of despair.
But while I thus stood musing,
	The sky above grew bright,
And	the moon in all her splendor
	Drove away the clouds of night; 
And	her track, like silver gleaming
	On the brooklet’s dancing crest,
Seemed like an angel speeding 
	To tell of peace and rest; 	
For my life was overshadowed,
	And its future hid from sight,  
As I stood upon the brookside
	In the shade of coming night.
But the twinkling home-light whispered,
	"There is work still to be done,
You must wait and labor bravely,
	For a while the hard race run;"
While the quiet graveyard stretching
	To the brooklet’s other shore.
Seemed the entrance to an haven
	Where the weary work no more;
And the moonlight seemed to promise,
	As it chased the gloom away,
Of a brighter life hereafter,
	In "realms of endless day."
Then my soul was cheered within me,
	For I thought I saw an hand
Waving slow and gently o’er me,
	In the moonbeams on the strand,
And I heard the sound of voices,
	As the waters murmured low, 
Singing hymns of joy and gladness, 
	That made my spirit glow
With a gleam of sunlight gladness,
	That bore my thoughts away
From the sadness that oppressed me,
	In the twilight cold and grey.
			M  A. YOULTON GREENHALGH.
Meadow, May 26, 1888.


[Column 1]
[For the EXPONENT.]
THE WOMEN OF UTAH.
PART II.
PHILANTHROPY.
“The sympathetic revenge, which is con-
demned by clamorous imbecility, is so far
from being a vice, that it is the greatest of all
possible virtues—a virtue which the uncor-
rupted judgment of mankind has in all ages
exalted to the rank of heroism.”
The one great work beyond the home that
has ever been granted to women, the one work
where her kind heart has been allowed full
sway, the loved work of a true woman’s soul—
that of doing good to others—Philanthropy.
It is the great field where women toil and labor,
battle and enjoy without opposition, without
limitation; where, free and unrestrained, her
voice can be raised to defend, her hand ex-
tended to uplift; where she can enter the dens
of infamy uncontaminated and unblamed, and
is an ever welcome guest in the huts of the

[Column 2]
poor and the palaces of the rich. Laboring
in such a field, with such scope, such boundless
freedom, need we wonder that so many women’s
names illuminate the pages of the world’s his-
tory. What an endless task ’twould be to try
to enumerate the names of women who deserve
immortality for their unselfish and kind works.
Our own war of the Rebellion proved that
America might claim hundreds of Florence
Nightingales, and, we would ask, “Is there a
day that ever closes without recording the kind-
nesses of woman, is there in this world a place
where her love for humanity is not hourly
shown?”
	The recent Convention at Washington daily
rehearsed the philanthropies of women; not a
paper there read, but spoke volumes of
woman’s charity and devotion to humane work.
There were Madame Bogelot representing the
Prison Reform Work of St. Lazarre, Paris,
Alice Scatcherd and Margaret Dilke, The
Women’s Liberal League of New York and
New Castle, Mrs. Ormiston Chant, The Women
of Scotland, Margaret Moore, The Women of
Ireland, Ada M. Frederickson, The Danish
Women’s Defense Society, Pundita Ramabai
Sarasvati, The Child widows of India, and
many others from abroad, while our own noble
country-women, Clara Barton, of the Geneva
Cross Society, Frances Willard, of the W. C.
T. U., Laura McNier, of the G. A. R., Ednah
D. Cheney, of The Women’s and Children's
Hospitals of New England, Jennie Croley, of
the Sorosis Society, Amelia S. Quinten, of the
Women’s Nat. Indian Ass’n, Mrs. Warden, of
the Grange, and countless others, related such
pages of relief work daily going on, as have
never before been placed before the world.
What surprise, what wonder, and what gratifica-
tion it all invoked. Among these great women
representing all these International Associa-
tions were four delegates from our own fair
Territory—Utah—and it was her privilege in
this great gathering to have a voice and tell
some of the philalthropic work of her own
women. The fact that Utah’s daughters could
be represented in such a vast and grand con-
vention, shows for itself that our work is no
trifling thing, and great must have been the
surprise when Emily S. Richards read her
report of the Societies of Utah. It was neces-
sarily brief, as only ten minutes were allotted
her, but in that short period a complete descrip-
tion of the organization of the Relief, the
Y. L. M. I. and the Primary Associations, to
gether with their aims and objects, was given.
The power of organization is very well illustra-
ted by the Relief Society, when 22,000 women
are banded together under one organization,
with united aims and desires, the greatest suc-
cess must and does necessarily result. To this
Association is due the advancement of the ma-
jority of the women of Utah, not alone in
philanthropic but in missionary, political, edu-
cational, journalistic, industrial, medical and
art work. Composed entirely of women, the
Relief Society might almost be styled a sym-
pathetic association; not only do they aid the
needy, but in the homes of the rich and poor
alike, wherever sickness, sorrow, death, or
trouble of any kind may be, its aid is sent.
This organization sustains by annual fees a
well regulated hospital, and gives much aid
towards public buildings, sometimes complete-
ly furnishing the interior. Its members
might almost consider themselves ministers,
for their work is very similar. They hold

[Column 3]
regular meetings for the purpose of speaking
upon Gospel subjects, and their missionary
work is quite extensive. Many have performed
long and trying missions on the Sandwich Is-
lands, teaching and working with the native
women and children. Prominent among those
who have gone unprotected by husbands, are
Dr. Elvira S. Barney and Mrs. Mildred Randall.
Many have gone among the Indians, teaching
and speaking with them. There are now some
few branches of the Relief Society of Indian
women, and Primary Associations of Indian
children in the Territory. Our lamented
woman-leader, Eliza R. Snow Smith, and Mrs.
Emmeline B. Wells, visited the Indians in
Thistle Valley, in 1881, and organized these
societies, and a few years later, when visiting
them a second time, they discovered a marked
progress had been made. The women were
quite proud of their needlework, and sent
some of it to the Stake fair of Sanpete. Among
the Indians in Box Elder Co. the work is, per-
haps, more advanced. The Relief and Prim-
ary Societies were there organized before
the Thistle Valley Society, and the Stake
officers frequently visit them to encourage them
towards civilized and industrial habits. A
great amount of home missionary work is ac-
complished by the R. S. women, scarcely a week
passing without some of them traveling into
different counties, organizing, instructing and
encouraging their sisters. The Relief Society
is in its membership wholly Mormon, having
been organized in 1842 at Nauvoo, by Joseph
Smith, and reorganized in Utah, by Brigham
Young, in 1855; its aid is, however, confined
to no class or sect, but is freely given wherever
there is need.
	There are, in Utah, many other guilds or
societies of women for philanthropic purposes,
but scarcely could we deem them so thoroughly
organized, or conducted on so grand a scale
as the Relief Society. Each of the different
churches has such an one, and much aid is
given through them, confined principally, but
not entirely, to their own church members.
The Catholic Sisterhood distribute freely, and
the Mother Superior says, “We give wherever
needed, in whatever way, and neither keep ac-
count or mention it afterward.” They have
built and conduct the beautiful and fine struc-
ture known as St. Mary’s Hospital of the Holy
Cross. This was the first woman’s hospital in
Utah, and is one of the finest in the West.
	The ladies of the Episcopal Church, under
 the name of St. Mark’s and St. Paul’s Ladies’
Guild, do much work for the poor and the en-
couragement of art, expending a large amount
of means for charitable purposes.
	The other sects average about an equal dis-
bursement through their ladies’ societies, each
giving liberally every year. The Hebrew
women also have a benevolent society, and dis-
burse yearly among their own poor.
	There is in Salt Lake an independent aid
society, composed entirely of young women,
which collects from well to-do classes and dis-
tributes wherever they find need. They confine
themselves to no class or place, but wherever
or whenever they happen to see an opportunity
to extend aid they do so, until they have be-
come quite a young army of evangelists.
	The G. A. R. Relief Corps so ably repre-
sented by Laura McNier at Washington, has,
for the past three years had a branch organiza-
tion here, which now has a membership of some
70 ladies. Their work is, of course, principally


[Column 1]

﻿confined to aiding soldiers, sailors and marines,
and their families, or members thereof, who are
indigent, maimed or sick, but, like all other
charitable societies here, bestow charity wher-
ever opportunity offers. During the short life
of this society, it has averaged for helping the
poor, $166.50 annually, and the first quarter of
the present year, 1888, has given $113.50, show-
ing a large increase.
	For some years past a few benovelent ladies
have been trying to provide Salt Lake with an
Orphan's Home, a need which is not yet greatly
felt, but since the project of making it also a
day nursery, where working women's children
are cared for and taught, has been carried out,
it has made more progress, and the Legislature
of 1888 made an appropriation for this purpose.
	Under the sub-heading, philanthropy, let us
not forget to mention The Woman's Industrial
Home, which at present is more of a blot on
our Territory, if not on our country, than any-
thing good. Some ladies persuaded Congress
to make an appropriation for the building of a
home for Mormon women who will renounce
their religious principles. From its beginning
this Home has been nothing but a farce; no
true woman would receive aid from it under
its present conditions and regulations, and in
behalf of the Mormon women let me say, we
have no need of such a place; we do not want
it and we will not enter it. If the appropria-
tion could be used to promote women's indus-
tries in the Territory, as the name implies it
should, it will be gladly received and aided.
	It is woman's delight to do good, it is her
greatest pleasure, and the firmer her religious
convictions are, the greater her good deeds be-
come. As woman is more spiritual, so is she
more charitable. Robert Hall tells us it was
reserved for the religious whose basis is humili-
ty and whose element is devotion, to proclaim
with authority, "Blessed are the merciful, for
they shall obtain mercy."

WOMEN IN POLITICS.
	On the twelfth of February, eighteen hun-
dred and seventy, the legislative assembly of
Utah passed an act confering upon women the
elective franchise; this act, having been ap-
proved by the Governor, became a law. Mrs.
Wells writes: "The peculiar exigencies and ex-
periences of Mormon life, have had a tendency
to make women self-helpful and self-reliant,
and have given them indomitable energy and
undaunted courage, and these characteristics
prepare them to use more discretely any trust
or confidence reposed in them." This is most
true, and has been fully proven by the manner
in which they exercised their privileges as free
citizens; we say tree, for no man or woman is a
free citizen who cannot have a voice at the
polls. For seventeen years the women of Utah
voted regularly for territorial, county and city
officers; also for delegate to Congress, Having
themselves the right of suffrage, the women of
Utah have always felt an interest in their sis-
ters in other states, and have assisted as best
they could, by petitions and other means, the
suffrage movement.
	The women were very eager to vote, but
took no other political privileges much before
eighteen seventy-eight, when they attended the
caucusses and primary meetings. Out of the
five different precincts in Salt Lake City, three
of them sent women delegates to the County
Convention. At this Convention, the first that
women had a voice in, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
was chosen as Secretary, and also nominated
for County Treasurer, but owing to the Statutes
of the Territory, the nomination could not be
sustained by the Convention. Though the law
allowed women to vote, the legal objection to
women holding office was found in the compiled
laws of Utah, which read, "Male citizens."
The gentlemen of this Convention showed great
liberality towards and pleasure in having the

[Column 2]

women associated with them, and offered to the
lady nominee for treasurer a vote of confidence
and assurance that she should have been sus-
tained if the  statutes had allowed. At this
same Convention three ladies' names—E.
B. Wells, M. I. Horne and S. M. Kim-
ball—were added to the People's Central Com-
mittee. The work of this Convention was
quite an advanced step for the women of the
Territory. These three women remained on
the Central Committee, and worked with sin-
cerity up to the time of the disfranchisement
of women. In several following conventions
women have held the offices of vice presidents
and secretaries.
	During this year of seventy-eight, when
women were making such progress in political
affairs. the subject of plural marriage was
greatly agitated, and active measures were
taken by certain parties to arouse public senti-
ment against its practice. A mass meeting of
non-Mormon women was held, and after some
speech-making against the Mormons in general,
certain resolutions were adopted and a circular
sent to Congress against polygamy, and speak-
ing in favor of the disfranchisement of the
women of Utah. Thus, the first blow against
Woman's Rights in Utah was struck by women.
It has often been remarked, that if it were not
for women themselves, women might vote,
and it is, to a great extent, true. At any
rate, the non-Mormon women of Utah have
shown little inclination to vote, and have been
very earnest in their efforts against the rights
of Mormon women.
	This Anti-Polygamy Meeting was followed
by a Mass Meeting of the women of Utah in the
Salt Lake Theatre. There were present at
least two thousand women; such a gathering
as is seldom seen in any place. There were,
perhaps, some fifteen or twenty newspaper re-
porters present, the only men admitted. There
were some eight or nine addresses by prominent
women, and then resolutions were read and
adopted, wherein the women declared them-
selves loyal citizens, and claimed the right to
defend themselves against the ruthless assaults
being made upon their sacred and constitutional
rights. It was a brave and a great defense,
when two thousand women rose en masse and
declared themselves determined to maintain
and defend their rights. Mass meetings of
women were held all over the Territory endors-
ing the sentiments expressed, and adopting the
resolutions presented at this mass meeting.
Not only were the women of Utah themselves
aroused, but the noble women of the suffrage
associations were alike enraged at the crusade
which had begun, and defended the women of
Utah in the the halls of Congress. Lillie
Devereaux Blake, when the subject of disfran-
chisement first appeared, wrote a very cutting
and fitting article against such a movement,
showing, in her pointed satire, the absurdity of
trying to prevent polygamy by taking the vote
from the women.
	The next year Utah sent two delegates—
Mrs. E. B. Wells and Zina Y. Williams—to
the National Woman's Suffrage Convention at
Washington, who were allowed many oppor-
tunities of speaking in behalf of the Mormon
women. During an interview with President
Hayes, he was so impressed by their statements
as to request them to put their case in writing,
before him, as he did not wish to trust so im-
portant a matter to a verbal interview. They
also prepared, while in Washington, a touching
and telling memorial to Congress, asking for a
repeal of the anti-polygamy law of eighteen
sixty-two, and for legislation to protect the
women and children of Utah. This memorial
was referred to the Judiciary Committee, be-
fore which these ladies had several hearings.
When the women of this Territory were first
threatened with disfranchisement they went to
the Nation's Capital to assert their rights, and

[Column 3]

to the National Woman's Suffrage Association
to ask assistance, and they did not ask in vain.
The suffragists have been most kind in speaking
for our rights, and we always have a representa
tion at their Conventions.
	The women of Utah petitioned the Terri-
torial Legislature of eighteen eighty, praying
for the removal of their political disabilities,
stating that for nine years they had enjoyed
the right of suffrage, and had proven them-
selves worthy of the trust; they argued, that
owing to the word male in the territorial
statutes, they were prohibited from holding any
official position, and prayed that some enact-
ment might be passed to remove this obstacle,
and allow them further rights. This prayer
was granted by the assembly, a bill having
been pressented and passed in accordance with
their wishes, viz: "A bill removing the political
disabilities of the women of Utah." This bill
passed the House with a large majority vote,
and the Council unanimously, but was ignored
by the Governor, as was also a similar bill pre-
sented some two years before. It is a sad
reflection on the Government, which boasts
such unparallelled freedom, that the contempt
of a single man, who has neither property or
interest of any kind in the Territory, can pre-
vent the passage of an act which is in accord-
ance with the wishes of the voters and the law-
makers of the community. At the time
the legislature again convened, the in-
famous Edmunds Bill was pending in Congress,
and as that was passed in March, 1882, all
women who were the wives of polygamous men
were disfranchised.
	The next effort on the part of the people for
rights was to frame a State Constitution and
present the same to Congress, asking for ad-
mission, and it was the intention to have a
Woman's Suffrage Plank in its platform. In
eighteen eighty-four there were four representa-
tive women in Washington working before
committees for the admission of Utah, and for
the repeal or modification of the Edmunds
Bill, which was then causing such great suffer-
ing and trouble among the people of this Terri-
tory. So great had this trouble become, that
the women had no heart to fight for political
rights; it seemed as though they scarcely had
the right to live at all. In eighteen eighty-six
the dreadful Edmunds-Tucker Bill became a
law, and from that time all tue women have
been disfranchised.
	It has been questioned some why the women
of Utah, not plural wives, do not make a stand
and plead for their former rights; and 'twould
seem if they were at all interested in suffrage
that they would certainly do so; their silence
speaks against them. If they would only try
to regain the ballot, they might do good to
others as well as themselves. We scarcely
need call it their right, it is their duty; your
brothers and sisters are bound; they have no
freedom. Obtain your rights, free women of
Utah, and do your duty to your country. Mrs.
Stanton says, "I want women to feel that it is
their religious duty to take part in government,
the most elevated of all sciences."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Danske Dandrige is a woman whose verse
first sees the light in a slender volume, "Joy
and Other Poems," just issued by Putnam. If
her poems have before appeared in the maga-
zines, I have been unable to find them; but one
of them, "To my comrade tree," bears every
test a good poem must endure before it is ac-
cepted as a worthy addition to the great stream
of English verse. It can be read alone and
aloud in good company, it can be re-read, and,
more than all this, it enriches the chambered
imagery of the mind and adds a new cement to
life. It is not a great poem, nor one consum-
mate in form; but it is tender and true, touches
the heart and kindles its better feelings.—Book
News.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿LOVE IS ALL.

We two in the fever and fervor and glow
	Of life’s high tide have rejoiced together,
We have looked out over the glittering snow
	And known we were dwelling in summer weather;
For the seasons are made by the heart, I hold,
	And not by the out-door heat or cold.

We two in the shadows of pain and woe,
	Have journeyed together in dim, dark places,
Where black-robed sorrow walked to and fro,
	And fear and trouble with phantom faces
Peered out upon us and froze our blood,
Though June's fair roses were all in bud.

We two have measured all depths, all heights,
	We have bathed in tears, we have sunned in laughter,
We have known all sorrows and all delights;
	They never could keep us apart hereafter.
Wherever your spirit was sent I know
I would defy earth, or heaven to go.

If they took my soul into paradise	
	And told me I must be content without you,
I would weary them so with my lonesome cries,
	And the ceaseless questions I asked about you,
They would open the gates and set me free,
Or else they would find you and bring you to me.
						ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


THOUGHTS,
AFTER THE DEATH OF OUR BELOVED AND AGED
SISTER, SUSAN K. GREENE.

One more body now is resting,
	One more spirit now is free;		
One more pilgrim home is welcomed,
	’Midst a glorious jubilee.

What is death unto that body,
	Is new life unto the soul;
For this day ’tis born in heaven,
	Born, and journeys toward its goal.

Long and patiently she’s waited,
	Waited for this day of rest.
“I am ready when the Lord sees
	Fit for me to be so blest.”

Many times her steps have wandered
	To the mystic river’s brink;
Many times near it she’s lingered—
	She had crossed—they’d almost think.

But no angel to her beckoned, 
	Nor was there to guide her o’er,
So she slowly back would totter,
	Back to work a little more.

Now she’s crossed that mystic river,
	Crossed unto the other side.
Yes, this time they came to meet her,
	Bore her o’er the waters wide.

Shall we mourn her? O, how can we,
	When she’s longed	so much to go?
And we know that now she’s happy, 
	Free from all earth’s care and woe.

And we know that now she’s mingling
	With her loved ones gone before;	
Has regained her Father’s presence,
	And does dwell with Him once more.

Let us keep her pure example
	In our hearts and dealings too;
Let us profit by her teachings—
	To our God be faithful, true.

That when called to cross the river,
	We, like her, may ready stand,
And may sail into the harbor,
	Where all faithful Saints will land.
LOUISA PICKETT.
Marion, Cassia Co., Idaho, April 19, 1888.


SUGGESTIVE THOUGHTS.
“He is idle who might be better employed.”
	It is true wisdom to know just what to do at
the right time. “Aunt Polly” set me to think-
ing, or rather set old thoughts in motion, in her
article on “Fancy Work,” in a recent issue of 
the EXPONENT. I have an eye for the beauti-
ful, and love to see pretty things about as well
as any body, but I think we should indulge in
fancy work about as we would eat a piece of
cake, or a dish of ice cream. There is so much
earnest work to do, so much to learn that is
really necessary to health and happiness—and
we weary both body and brain, expend nervous
vitality upon things that are worse than useless
—because the profit or pleasure does not over-
balance the outlay of time and strength. It
is a nice point to be able to define the time
when spare moments can be profitably spared
for much that we do.
	I often think if young ladies could look into
the depths of their ignorance, and sense how 
poorly equiped they are with a knowledge of
the requirements due their life-work, they
would see fewer spare moments which they
would be willing to devote to fancy work.
Many devotees of the crochet hook, embroidery
needle, and other implements of ornamentation,
deplore their lack of time for self-improvement.
As they approach the holy temple of matri-
mony, their thoughts are not so much upon the
grave duties of the intelligent management of 
home and family, as upon the ornamenting of
the home and the trimming of the wedding
trousseau. Oh, the endless yards of edging,
ric rac, feather-edge, novelty, etc., and the 
tedious hours of stitching tucking and ruffling on
the woman’s enemy, the machine, which many 
girls take pride in doing themselves—till the
wedding morn finds them exhausted in vital
force, nerves prancing around the tightest ten-
sion, the emotions in an overwrought state of
excitement; but pride and vanity are gratified,
and a false and injurious custom smiles grimly
at the sad havoc its tyranny has made.
	Now comes the reaction, pay day is at hand;
the should-be blooming bride is more like a
wilted flower; she has been “so miserable” ever
since her marriage, but has tried to regain the
old-time buoyancy by forcing herself into
increased excitement and gaiety. Oh, the
fatal mistake! Rest, rest is the proper tonic. 
In this state she meets the sacred mysteries of
maternity; but instead of becoming the quali-
fied guardian of so precious a trust as a human
soul, she is the ailing invalid, a victim to what
is ignorantly supposed to be the natural condi-
tion of maternity. Had all the misplaced
affection, the misspent time, misapplied energy
been devoted to a proper and intelligent pre-
paration for the wedding, by taking a course
of medical studies—without which no woman’s
education can be complete—how different
would be the results. As every mother is to
be warden of the life and health of her home,
so should she know how to administer their
laws. 
	Not only are young ladies, but the mothers
of families, carried away, so to speak, by the 
decorative “craze,” and the fear and torture of
body and mind, which many mothers experi-
ence in the rearing of their families, in ignor-
ance of the simple laws of health, is sad to
contemplate. If baby has the colic or any
simple ailment or disease of childhood, the
mother is powerless, till grandma or the doctor
arrives; or if indigestion overtakes any member
of the family, as the result of ignorance in
preparing digestible food, the same difficulty is
ever present.
	“Oh, mamma! read me a pretty story,” says
the little child, who has lived, despite its
mother’s ignorance. “No, darling, mamma hasn’t
time; see the pretty flowers I am making on
your dress.” “Take me into the field for

[Column 2] 
pretty flowers, mamma; I want to hear the birds
sing, too.” “Oh, now mamma’s too busy; I’ve so
much fancy work to do for my little girl.” So
the weary little brain, hungry for a story, goes
out alone to learn its own lessons of good or
evil. What beautiful flowers of thought and 
happiness the mother has denied her child’s
heart, to work them on the perishable dress.
When the lovely daughter has wandered from
your control, think, oh, vain mother, that, per-
haps, you dug the impassable gulph between
you with an embroidery needle or a crochet
hook. 	L. T. F.


NOTES AND NEWS. 
	The Chicago Law Times and Bradwell’s Ap-
pellate Court Reports are published and edited
by female lawyers. 

	There are probably a thousand women in 
the city of Pittsburgh who work in iron mills, 
making bolts, nuts, hinges and barbed wire. 

	Mrs. Tennyson is described as a sweet grace-
ful woman, with singularly winning, gentle
manners, but looking painfully fragile and
wan.

	Queen Victoria is the first English reigning
sovereign who has visited Florence since the 
time of the Crusades, when Richard I. passed
through the city.

	Mrs. Livermore and Mrs Stanton, in 1869, in 
Illinois, were not allowed to speak until they
had paid a license of five dollars. “But now,”
said Mrs. Livermore at the suffrage festival,
“instead of paying for a license to speak, we
make everybody pay a dollar to come and
hear.”

	The Empress Victoria of Germany has
turned inventor. From plans drawn by her, a 
writing desk has been manufactured which 
enables the Emperor to write whether lying in 
bed or standing up. It is available in any
position, and the mechanism is said to be in-
tricate and remarkably effective. 

	Princess Irene of Hesse, who has just mar-
ried Prince Henry of Prussia, has received a 
thorough housewife’s training. She can sew, 
make bread, and do everything she would have
to do, were she fated to become the wife of a 
poor man. All the Princesses of Hesse were 
trained in this way by their mother, the late
grand duchess, daughter of Queen Victoria.—
Ex.
	Mrs. Maria E. Beasley, of Philadelphia, 
has made a fortune by the invention of a ma-
chine for the construction of barrels, which, up 
to that time, had been made almost wholly by 
hand. The machine is worked by three men
and turns out more than 600 completed barrels
a day. Mrs. Beasley was born in North
Carolina, of wealthy parents. She possesses
remarkable mechanical genius. Her first in-
vention was a machine for hooping barrels. It
will hoop 1,700 barrels a day, and is used by 
the Standard Oil Company.—Ex.

	The Boston Globe advises husbands to take
home flowers to their wives at this season of the
year. The Globe says, “It is often too true
that the very men who think nothing is too good
for a girl when they are winning her, seem to 
think that anything—or nothing—is good
enough for her once she is won. But married
men are not all of that stripe. There are
Benedicts who keep up the sweet old ways, and
regularly buy a bunch of posies for their
better halves. Why can’t all men realize that
it isn’t enough just to love their wives? Why
can’t they show that they love them? If hus-
bands would show a little more attention to 
their wives, there would be fewer divorce cases
in our courts.”


12    WOMANS EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,  - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Salt Lake City. Utah.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,  -  -  -  June 15, 1888.


[Column 1]

APOSTLE ERASTUS SNOW.

	Apostle Erastus Snow died at his residence in
Salt Lake City, at five minutes to seven o'clock,
Sunday evening, May 27, 1888. Bro. Snow was
decended from one of the early New England
(Puritan) families, who located in Mass., but after-
wards some of them settled in northern Vermont,
where the subject of this sketch was born, in St.
Johnsbury, Caledonia Co., Vt., November 9, 1818.
His parents were Levi and Lucina Snow, and he
was one of seven sons and two daughters. Joseph 
Smith, Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and
Newel K. Whitney, as well as Erastus Snow
and many other leading men of the Latter-day
work, were born in Vermont. It is true, no
doubt, that climate and conditions of country have
an effect upon character, and these Green Moun-
tain boys were of that honest, upright, sterling
character which is needful to make Latter-day
Saints.
	In the Spring of 1832, Elders Orson Pratt and
Luke Johnson carried the Gospel into that region
of country where Levi Snow's family resided, and
two of the sons, William and Zerubbabel, were
baptized, and subsequently nearly the whole
family. William Snow baptized his brother
Erastus Feb. 3, 1833. and he was ordained a
teacher Jan. 28, 1834, by Elder John F. Boynton.
At that time he assisted his father in the farm work
but he also labored faithfully in the ministry, and
visited the Saints in that vicinity, doing mission-
ary work as opportunity offered. November 13
1834, he was ordained a Priest by his brother
William, and soon after traveled as a missionary
in the States of New York and New Hampshire,
preaching publicly and privately. He baptized
quite a number into the Church who had been
converted through his teaching. August 16, 1835,
he was ordained an Elder by Luke Johnson, and
afterwards traveled and preached with his brother,
Willard Snow, and others in New Hampshire and
Vermont.
	He left his home in St. Johnsbury for Kirtland
in company with Hazen Aldrich, Nov. 8, 1835. It
was quite a journey in those days to travel 700
miles, and he was just seventeen the day after they
started. While crossing Lake Erie they came
near being shipwrecked, but were saved, and after
rather a rough journey they reached Kirtland Dec.
3, 1835.
	After his arrival in Kirtland, then the head-
quarters of the Saints, Erastus Snow was recog-
nized as a young Elder of great promise. He
possessed a fine voice, and his eloquence was
quite remarkable at that early period, although his
opportunities for acquiring knowledge had been
limited to a country school education. In the
winter of 1835-36, he attended the Elder's school
in Kirtland, where he received instruction, both
religious and secular, and he was an attentive and
apt student, thirsting for intelligence. Even be-

[Column 2]

fore he had enjoyed these advantages, his sermons 
were alluded to as models of oratory and eloquence.
Bro. Snow was present at the dedication of the
Kirtland Temple, and has testified of the wonderful
gifts and manifestations received and seen therein.
He was earnest and zealous in his labors in the
ministry and as a missionary among
the people, converting and baptizing many
into the Church, and also organiz-
ing several branches in various districts in
Pennsylvania, where he labored some months.
Like many other Elders in those days, he suffered
from prejudice, and had narrow escapes from
mob violence. He afterwards went out in other
directions on other missions in several of the
Stakes, and was very successful in evangelical
work. Elder E. Snow was often engaged in public
discussions with men of talent and public notoriety
among the sectarian world, and although young in
years, and not possessing the collegiate education
that ministers are expected to receive in the out-
side world, yet he invariably succeeded in debate
upon the principles of the Gospel. He was famil-
iar with the Scriptures, and his reasoning was
logical and convincing to the honest-hearted.
	In 1838, after a mission to Pennsylvania and
Virginia, he went up to Far West, where his
parents and other relatives had removed from
Vermont. It was there he married, December 13,
1838, Artemisia Beman. His subsequent career
in Missouri is spoken of as a very important era
in his life. With other brethren, he aided in the
attempt of the Prophet and those imprisoned with
him, to escape from Liberty Jail, Feb. 8, 1839, and
was, with his companions, arrested and imprisoned
and afterwards tried, when he plead his own cause
in the court with such soundness and eloquence,
that the judge inquired where he had studied
law.
	After the Saints were driven from Missouri,
Brother Snow located his family in Montrose, on
the opposite side of the Mississippi from Nauvoo.
He performed some missions in Illinois, and ad-
ministered to many who were sick
until he himself was prostrated. At
the October Conference, in 1839, he
was made a member of the High Council at
Montrose. Like many others of the Saints in
these trying times, he and his family were severe-
ly afflicted with fever and ague. Int the Spring of
1840, Elder Snow started on another mission to
the East, preaching and traveling in Pennsylvania
and New Jersey, laboring with great diligence
and accomplishing a great work.
	In August 1841 he left that field of labor to go to
Salem. Mass., where his success was almost un-
bounded; his mission and labors extended into
neighboring towns, both in Massachusetts and
New Hampshire and also into the cultured city
of Boston. We remember very well hearing of
his fame in that region of country when Mormon-
ism first began to be spoken of up among the New
England hills in the Connecticut valley," and how
expectation was on tiptoe when the news was
brought that young Erastus Snow was coming up
there to preach. The impression of him at that
time among the local Saints was that he was
equal to Daniel Webster in eloquence and intelli-
gence. He was looked upon by the village folks
as an Eastern man, and not so much of a pilgrim
and wanderer as other "Mormon" Elders who
came and preached from time to time. The idea
of his being like Daniel Webster was not out of
the way, as the future verified his statesmanship
and his adaptation for legislative work and in-
fluence in "the arena of politics," so called.
	Elder Snow was in Massachusetts on his second
mission there, when the Prophet and Patriarch
were killed, and hearing of the tragedy he re-
turned to Nauvoo. Brother Snow was actively en-
gaged in the Temple work until the exodus, and
left Nauvoo Feb. 16, 1846, with the first companies
of the exiled Saints on their journey westward.

[Column 3]

From Mt. Pisgah he made a return trip to Nauvoo,
and then came on to Council Bluffs.
	Elder Snow was selected as one of the Pioneers
to seek out a resting place for the Saints, and as
has often been told, was one of the first to look
upon this beautiful valley on the 21st of July,
1847, the other being Orson Pratt.
	It is impossible to give more than an item here
and there of the life and labors of the great and
good man, but his days were full of usefulness
and his ways and words were always rich in wis-
dom and in the gifts of the Gospel with which he
was endowed from his youth until the time of his
decease. After the organization of the First
Presidency from the Quorum of the Twelve
Apostles causing three vacancies. There was
still another vacancy caused by Lyman Wight's
apostacy, and four brethren were chosen. Elder
Erastus Snow was one of the chosen four or-
dained to fill the vacant places. In October Con-
ference following he was appointed to go on a
mission to Denmark and landed in Copenhagen
in June 1850. This was one of the great open-
ings of missionary work, for the Gospel has spread
throughout Scandinavia from city to city and
county to county and many thousands have been
gathered home to Zion. This mission alone would
have immortalized the memory of Erastus Snow,
but his efforts in the cause have never ceased or
wavered, but his course has been onward and his 
labors untiring. As a colonizer in Utah and ad-
jacent lands he as ever been indefatigable,
wherever it was possible to open up towns or
abiding places, or to subdue the soil and make
homes for the people.
	It has been remarked that Erastus Snow as a
colonizer was second only to Brigham Young.
Southern Utah is in itself a positive proof of his
labors, enterprise and development, as it is well
known to all familiar with the country that it was
one of the most desolate and forbidding regions,
yet the Saints under his advice and leadership
have made themselves desirable homes and built
up and beautified towns, cities and farms, and
erected in its midst a magnificent Temple;
throughout that part of Utah Bro. Snow is every-
where recognized and spoken of as a father to the
people.
	During the last few years he has traveled and
labored in establishing settlements and arranging
and directing the affairs of the Saints in Arizona
and Mexico. He possessed the indomitable will
determination and heroism that characterized the
New Englanders from whom he was descended,
and which many of the leaders of this Church
inherited from their noble ancestors. The Lord
raised up just such men and women as were
needed to establish and maintain the principles
of the everlasting Gospel, and Bro. Snow is an
illustrious example of the strong and unflinching
characteristics of the class of men that are
needed to carry on the Latter-day work He was
not only faithful honest and upright among men
and in his public life, but he was exemplary as a
husband and father in his family relations. He
has left a large family to mourn his loss, but they
have the comfort and consolations of the Gospel
and an assurance that reaches beyond the grave
that if they remain faithful and true they will meet
him again and enjoy his society where there is no
pain or parting and all tears are wiped away.
	The funeral of Apostle E. Snow was held in the
Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, May 30th, services
commencing at 12 m. The body of Bro. Snow
lay in state from 8 o'clock in the morning, and
many thousands availed themselves of the oppor-
tunity of taking a last look at the face of the de-
ceased. The beauty and purity of the white
emblems used in draping, with running lines of
evergreens and white flowers, was very striking,
and was certainly in keeping with the views of the
Latter-day Saints: There were many vases of
flowers and floral tokens of love in suitable de-


signs, but the most beautiful of all was one in the
shape of a tombstone, around which were lovely
flowers, with a floral base of appropriate propor-
tions. In the centre of the floral frame was an in-
scription printed on white silk in gilt letters; it
was a token of love from the Scandinavians:
	"Erastus Snow, Apostle to the Scandinavians.
Token of Respect, in behalf of 50,000 members of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
who have embraced the Truth in Denmark,Sweden
and Norway, as the fruits of the Gospel door be-
ing opened in those countries in 1850-52, by our
beloved and esteemed Apostle, Erastus Snow."
	The entire effect of the decorating of the hall
was exquisitely elegant. The band played a
solemn dirge preliminary to the services, which
were presided over by Apostle Lorenzo Snow.
The singing by the Tabernacle choir was excellent,
and the selections tender and soothing. Prayer
was offered by Apostle F. D. Richards. Apostle
Lorenzo Snow opened his discourse by reading
the 13th verse of the 14th chapter of Revela-
tions:
	And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto
me, Write, Blessed are the dead which die in the
Lord from henceforth; yea, saith the Spirit, that
they may rest from their labors; and their works
do follow them.
	The other speakers were Prest: A. O. Smoot, of
Provo, Prest. Angus M. Cannon, Coun. D. H.
Wells, Elder Andrew Jenson and Apostle F. D.
Richards; also Apostle H. J. Grant, who read a
few words written by Apostle Moses Thatcher;
he was followed by Apostle J. H. Smith, who,
after addressing the congregation a few minutes,
read a communication from Prest. Wilford Wood-
ruff in behalf of the absent members of the Coun-
cil of the Apostles.
	The choir sang,
		"Nearer, my God, to Thee."
	Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John
Smith.
	The procession was formed with the band and
Apostles as pall-bearers, after these the hearse,
the family, the choir and the various quorums of
the priesthood, followed by citizens.  At the ceme-
tery the choir sang,
		"O, my Father, Thou that dwellest."
	Coun. D. H. Wells offered up a dedicatory
prayer, and the body of this illustrious Apostle
was consigned to its last resting place to await the
morning of the resurrection.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTE.

	THE annual meeting of the 13th Ward Primary
Association of this city was held in the Ward As-
sembly Rooms, Mvy 25th, at half past three p.m.,
Miss Kate Wells presiding. Meeting commenced
with singing, "The children are praying for me."
Prayer by Coun. Empey. After singing again,
reading of minutes, report, etc., the programme
was carried out as follows: Recitation, Charlie
Peterson, "Scatter the gems of the beautiful;"
Song, by Irene Merrill, Belle Barrett and
Guinheld Peterson, "I cannot catch the sun-
beams;" Questions on the Bible Recitation,
Bella Barrell; Song, May Edwards and Agnes
Kenner; Recitation, Lettie Carter, "The Sailor;"
Song, Daisie Newton; a Prize Essay, on the
principles of the Gospel, was read by Miss
Thomas; the children then responded with senti-
ments, verses from the Bible, proverbs, maxims,
etc, Remarks were then made by Sisters E. C.
Clawson, L. A. Wells, R. C. Atwood, E. B. Wells,
B. W. Smith and Bishop Atwood. The resigna-
tion of Miss Annie Thomas, as Counselor, was
accepted, and Miss Lillie Mortenson and Miss
Agnes Kenner were chosen as Counselors, Miss


May Merrill, Secretary, and Miss Gertie Peterson,
Ass't Secretary. The children sang, "Good
Night," and the benediction was pronounced by
Thomas Sloan.


[Column 1]

[For the EXPONENT.]
	TO THE SISTERS.

	To you who are rearing families, and you who
are just married, I have a few words to say:
	In the beginning the curse was pronounced upon
Eve, that she should bring forth children in sorrow.
But has not the time come when the curse will be
taken from the daughters of Eve? not by deadly
chloroform, but by natural means, that is within
the reach of everyone.
	If women would live in a more healthy manner,
leave off corsets, breathe pure air, take the right
course to strengthen the abdominal muscles, and
live on a fruit diet, keep the Word of Wisdom and
the celestial law, I know that in natural cases
childbirth would be almost painless What a
blessing, what a boon to women! It depends up-
on yourselves whether you suffer or not.
	I have had two children born with scarcely any
pain, and three others without the assistance of
a midwife. I only mention this to show that I
know that labors can be painless, or nearly so. If
a child is pitched, flannels wrung out of hot water
and placed on the abdomen as hot as possible,
and a dry one over to exclude the air, will relax
the system and give help right away; and in one
case, by that method, the child that had presented
wrong, turned of its own accord to a head pre-
sentation, and was born with but a few pains.
	The dress should be worn loose, so that women
will not feel so sick in the morning, and in fact
tight dresses should never be worn, as they restrict
the circulation and the breathing, and tight lacing
forces the internal organs out of place, laps the
ribs, and produces a great deal of suffering, and
often death.
	If you don't feel like eating in the morning,
don't eat until you are hungry. That is a good
maxim throughout life; hunger demands food, but
if the stomach is crowded with food, when it can-
not digest it, then it produces sickness at the
stomach and other ailments.
	Everyone should study themselves, and they
can soon find out what benefits them. If an
article of diet is disliked, don't force yourself to
eat, but get something else agreeable. For
biliousness and sickness at the stomach, drink
something sour—vinegar, water and sugar, lemon-
ade, drinks from cream of tartar, tartaric acid, and
sugar are healthy and good for summer.
	Avoid cooking, when the sight and smell of
victuals makes you sick. In the first months of
pregnancy a women needs help, when she can
scarcely drag around, and sleep and rest ought to
be her portion.
	A fruit diet overcomes constipation, while pills
and physic do more harm than good; a relaxing
diet is much better.
	Keep the Word of Wisdom. Tea stimulates, but
depresses, brings on sick headache and numerous
evils. How little would we suffer if we did as the
Lord has told us.
	For heartburn do without a meal, that is the
best remedy.
	Don't work so hard that you are all of the time
tired, and in consequence have a feeble child, that
soon dies, or has a struggle to live. Rest when-
ever inclined, or change hard work to light, and
delight in what you are doing.
	When the system needs sleep, do not try by
washing your face in cold water, going into the
open air, drinking tea, and other ways, to rouse
yourselves to do more work, but sleep until you
have had your sleep out, and you will be rewarded
with more energy and better health.
	Be out doors as much as possible; breathe the
pure air, and breathe deeply.

[Column 2]

	You that need, try, and see if suffering cannot
be avoided, your own lives happier and healthier,
and your children consequently healthier and
longer lived.
		EMILY B. SPENCER.


MAY-DAY PICNIC.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I thought I would give you a brief account of
our May-day celebration, which was certainly an
enjoyable time to all who participated in it.
	It had been arranged, under the auspicies of the
Mesa Relief Society, for both old and young to meet
at a grove about two- miles out of town, but this
part was changed, and it was concluded best to
meet at the bowery, reserving the hall for the pic-
nic. At 10 a.m. the children came in crowds, girls
dressed with a profusion of flowers.
	The May queen, with her twelve maids of honor,
looked, in their pure white, emblems of purity and
innocence.
	Opening speech by Prest. C. I. Robson, who
gave a retrospective view of this custom of cele-
brating the 1st day of May, which had prevailed
throughout Christendom for so many ages past,
tracing it back to the time of the Roman Empire,
but could not find any authorized account as to its
origin. He supposed, as the month of May
ushered in the season of flowers, therefore it was
celebrated as a festal holiday.
	Then followed the crowning of the May-queen
—Miss Amy Babbitt—by maids of honor, with
appropriate songs.
	A speech by the May-queen was delivered in an
easy, graceful manner, which quite captivated the
hearts of her audience. Songs, recitations and
dialogues occupied the rest of the forenoon, until
it was pronounced picnic time, and then such a
busy time for busy hands.
	Tables were arranged in the Society Hall for
those who chose to go there; some preferred the
bowery as the coolest place, others hied to some
of the numerous shade trees, that spread their
cooling branches near by. It was joyous confusion,
and all went merry as a marriage bell. Families
and friends grouped together in a kind-of-do-as-
you-please style, and all acknowledged that there
was much enjoyment to be reaped from a genuine
picnic.
	Quite a number of our Lamanite brethren and
sisters from the Papage Ward were present by
invitation, and enjoyed it immensely, especially
the picnic part of it. They were dressed clean
and neat, and behaved with great decorum.
	We met again in the afternoon at the call of the
Union Brass Band, when more songs and recita-
tions were rendered by members of the Primary
in a very creditable manner. A song by Mother
Everett, who is seventy-eight years of age, brought
down the house; also a song by the Sunday
School choir, entitled, "The Picnic," was beauti-
fully rendered. I almost forgot to mention the
beautiful singing of our native brethren and sisters.
They sang from the Latter-day Saints' Hymn Book,
under the direction of Sister Thankful Harmon,
who certainly deserves great credit, and has reason
to feel proud of her choir. They have sweet,
musical voices, bass, alto and tenor; each part is
rendered harmoniously, without any clashing. At
five o'clock dancing for the children, in the even-
ing for adults.
	Everything passed off pleasantly. Some
strangers who were present were heard to say it
was the most sociable, enjoyable affair of the kind
they had ever witnessed.		S. M.


A SISTER'S BLESSINGS.

	As I lay resting on my bed,
	Listening to raindrops overhead,
	My thoughts revert to thee.
	To thy labors and thy destiny.
And I say in my inmost soul, Sister Jane, thou


art one of nature,s noble women; blest with a
heart and mind that can expand so as to feel for
all our Father's weak and afflicted ones, and all
who need succor and aid; and also with a hand
that has not been withheld in times of need, for
at all hours of the twenty-four has it been seen
ministering to the sick and afflicted, without
thought of recompense. In thy public labors
thou hast sought the glory of the Father in heaven,
and the welfare of thy fellow creatures, rather
than the praise of men. He who looketh upon
things as they really do exist, knoweth the integri-
ty of thy heart. What ever thy faults may be, thy
noble qualities so far exceed them, that they are
buried forever in oblivion to those who know thee
as thou art, and can appreciate thy worth judging
from a standpoint of justice. I sincerely believe
thou art one of the noble spirits reserved to come
upon the earth in the last days, so faithful thou
hast been.
	Continue faithful in all thy labors, wherever thy
lot may be. When thou leavest this world o
trials, and shall receive again the intelligence thy
spirit had in its former state, united with the knowl-
edge and experience gained here, thou wilt sing
for joy the song of the redeemed.
	Then, take joy and comfort in thy labors of love,
knowing that trials and troubles are necessary for
the perfecting of the Saints. Be humble and ac-
knowledge the hand of the Lord in all things.
		D. E. D.
	April 25, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ONE MORE INSTANCE.

	So much has been written about the suffer-
ing, persecutions and trials of the Mormon
women during, the early days of our
Church, that it must seem to many that there
is nothing that is worthy of note, but has been
recorded in our journals. Yet there have been,
I have no doubt, many scenes in the lives of
these noble women that have not found record,
except in that great Book of Life, out of which
we all, some day, shall be judged.
	One by one our mothers, the witnesses, and
often the victims of the early persecutions of
the Church, are passing away; soon there will
be none left to tell the tales of trials and en-
durance to their children, to whom the names
of Missouri and Illinois are fraught with dire-
ful reflections.
	One of these aged mothers, who was a
victim to the unjust and cruel persecution of a
Missouri mob, has passed into that quiet rest that
only the righteous know. In the humble
home, where she had reared her sons and
daughters to manhood and womanhood, and
nursed her grandchildren upon her knee, her
pure spirit went softly out from the home in
which she had known so much of sorrow and
of suffering, to Him whose arm had been
around, and whose promises had sustained her
through all her years of trial.
	All that loving hands could do had been
done, and she lay enfolded in her robe of
snowy white, upon which the little grandchild-
ren, in loving tenderness, had each laid their
tribute of flowers. Her withered, toil-hardened
hands were crossed upon the bosom that had
never breathed aught but breaths of kindness;
the aged face seamed by more furrows than
those made by time, bore a peaceful, holy calm
upon it, as though the spirit had, ere its de-
parture from its earthly tenament, left upon
it the impress of its coming glory.
	She was a person of not much note, and the
crowd assembled at this, her last earthly re-
ception, was not a large one, and was composed
mostly of those who knew and loved her best,
and from one of those, one who lived close in
her affections, I learned this story of her life,
which, since it had never been told, I promised
myself I would write up in my poor way, that

[column 2]

it may find its place among its kindred circum-
stances.
	She was a Norwegian by birth, an early con-
vert to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. I have forgotten, if I was told the
year of her emigration to America, with her
husband and family. The little means they 
had saved, by dint of hard labor and close 
economy in their native land, was exhausted
by the time they reached New York, but keep-
ing their eye upon the West, they pushed on as
far as Missouri, working their way as they
went.
	In this state they sought labor whereby to
raise means to purchase a team and wagon,
which was necessary to take them to Utah.
The husband succeeded in getting a position
among mill men, and the wife sought work
among the different families of the neighbor-
hood. Before the year waned they found them-
selves in possession of the coveted and much
needed team and wagon, also one cow.
	During their stay in Missouri they were
much harassed by the mobocratic spirit which
prevailed there against the Saints, but when
they were in all readiness to commence their
journey into Iowa where they were to join a
company of Saints enroute to Zion, they were
forbidden to leave, and ordered to denounce
their delusion, as their religion was; they, how-
ever, continued to make preparation to leave.
The husband had fulfilled his contract faith-
fully with his employers, and could see no
reason why he should be detained. To hinder
him his enemies stole one ox from his hard
earned team, but he yoked the cow beside the
odd ox. A mob made search for the husband,
threatening to kill him if they found him. He
skulked his way out of the neighborhood,
while the wife put their few effects into the
wagon, yoked the unmatched team and started.
She had not gone far when the mob assailed
her, and tore from her, her little son, the oldest 
of her children. Filled with terror and despair,
the poor woman sought an officer of the law;
this proved no easy task for her, as no one
seemed very anxious to serve her; however, as
she could identify two or three of the party
who had assailed her, she succeeded in getting
a hearing before a justice of the peace. What 
was done or said in the court she knew nothing,
as she could understand scarcely a word of the
English language, but at the close her child
was restored to her, and feeling once more
happy, she took him by the hand and left the
room. Before she had gone far she was again
assailed and a second time he was snatched
from her. Again she sought the officer and
asked redress, but he said though he was sorry
for her, yet he could do nothing for her unless
she could identify the parties who had wronged
her; this she could not do, as the men had
masked their faces.
	For days this poor Norwegian family lin-
gered in the neighborhood, begging and sup-
plicating the people for help to find their little
one, but to no purpose. To be a "Mormon" in
those cruel days of Missouri was only to incite
hatred and persecution, and no one heeded
their distress or tried to aid them, till, finally,
through fear of death to themselves and the
rest of their little flock, they were forced to
leave their little boy, whom they never saw
again. After they reached Utah, and had be-
come more acquainted with the laws of the
country, they made renewed efforts to find
some trace of him, but with no avail.
	What sufferings were imposed upon him by
his fiendish captors during his childish years,
what the end of his career was after a life of
association with such men—cruel as they were
—what temptations may have assailed him and
drawn him into sin and wickedness, what
crimes he may have committed, were thoughts
that settled around the poor mother's heart, a
burden of sorrow that was lifted only when

[Column 3]

death set his seal upon her forehead on that
bright morning of the day on which my story
opens.
	And this story of hers is only one tale out
of many that might be told. Hers is only one
more white robe among the righteous throng
that surrounds the throne of the Father; she
is one more whose garments have been made
white in the blood of the Lamb; one more who
has gained the victory over death and her
enemies, and reached that place where "the
wicked cease from troubling and the weary
are at rest."
		NEMO.


R. S., Y. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

DAVIS STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake was held in Farming-
ton meeting house on Friday, April 20th,
Mrs. Mary S. Clark presiding	Present on the
stand were Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Mrs. Mary S. Clark, Mrs. Lucinda Brown.
Meeting opened by singing. Prayer by Bishop
Secrist. Continued with singing, Minutes of
the previous conference read and accepted.
The Relief Society of East Bountiful, Center-
ville, Farmington and Kaysville were then
represented by the respective presidents.
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark made the opening re-
marks. Spoke of the goodness of God and
His blessings towards us as a people, hoped we
all appreciated the same; felt sure that we were
engaged in a good work and the Lord would
protect us if we were faithful.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne urged the necessity of at
tending onr meetings; thought many did not
appreciate these organizations as they should;
we should learn the responsibility that is rest-
ing upon us. Spoke of the necessity of im-
pressing on the minds of our children the truth
of this work. Also spoke of the important
mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith in estab-
lishing this work; made many other excellent
remarks.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells Spoke of the trials this peo-
ple were passing through,but said it is spreading
the Gospel more widely than ever; was sure
there was a bright future before us, urged the
sisters to take care of their bodies, take time to
rest and read and inform their minds; urged
the necessity of sending the children to the
Primary.
	Bishop Secrist said he had heard many
good things this morning and could bear testi-
mony that they were the truth. The Relief
Society is one of the organizations of the
Kingdom of God. Asked the Lord to bless
the sisters for he felt they were doing much
good.
	Adjourned until 2 p.m. by singing "Lord,
dismiss us wiith thy blessing." Benediction
by Brother Tibbetts.
	Afternoon session: Meeting commenced
with singing "We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet. Prayer by Johnathan Wood. Sing-
ing, "Lo, the mighty God appearing."
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was the first speaker; ex-
pressed herself as being very thankful that
she had been able to keep the faith and endure
the many trials the Saints had been allotted to
pass through. They have been good lessons
for us, and if we have not profited by them
we must be very dull,advised all to watch them-
selves for the adversary tries harder to over-
come those that have made covenants with the
Lord. She also spoke on many more interest-
ing subjects, among others the storing of grain
for a time of need.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne spoke of the necessity of
our improving our minds, gaining all the
knowledge that we can, for that remains with
us; while we have to leave behind us all the


wealth we accumulate; thought it was no time
for folly and vanity, but more of a time for
feasting and prayer spoke of the necessity of
being very watchful of our children, to try
and keep them from coming in contact with
evil influences; set good examples for them to
follow and said many more excellent things.
	Mrs. Lucinda Brown was glad to meet with
her sisters; feared that we did not appreciate
the blessings that we enjoy; asked the sisters if
they remembered to pray for those who were
in exile and deprived of their liberty; never
had seen a time when she felt to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things as she did
at the present. Exhorted all to cultivate the
spirit of kindness and love; never speak evil of
each other; knew this was the kingdom of God,
and thought we should all be interested in
building it up.
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark made the closing remarks;
said the time seemed too short whenever we
met together; would like to have heard from
the brethren; spoke of the work for the dead,
that we should all be interested in this great
work; let us all remember our prayers, seek for
the sweet influence of the Spirit of the Lord,
watch ourselves, and try and prepare ourselves
to meet our friends who have gone behind the
veil. May the blessings of the Lord be with
us, is my prayer. 
	Conference adjourned for three months, to
meet at Kaysville. Singing, "Truth reflects
upon our senses." Benediction by Ezra T.
Clark.
		RHODA HINMAN, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EGYPTIAN WOMEN.

BY CHARLOTTE B. WILBOUR.

No 8.

WOMAN UNDER THE LAW.
	This division will include that which custom
has legalized without enactments, as well as
that found in the written code. The four sects
of Mohammedans receive their code of law
as well as of morals from the Koran. So
strongly rooted is this faith, that even as the
English have found it unwise to change from
the Mohammedan law in India, the framers of
the code adopted for the native courts just
established in Egypt, have but copied the Koran
in all that relates to marriage, polygamy, di-
vorce and concubinage. A Muslim may have
at one time four wives, and the Book says: "If
you cannot act equitably by them, take from
those whom your right hand has acquired,"
meaning slaves. Mohammedans believe that
woman is created for man's pleasure and com-
fort, and that though she is crafty and danger-
ous, she must be made to serve him with as
little bother as possible, during the time he de-
sires her. She will not follow him to Paradise
unless he wishes her presence, and he religiously
expects to have better society. The Koran has
a full recognition of slavery and supposes it to
be a perpetual institution of the country. A
slave may not marry her master, while a slave,
but the mother of her master's child is usually
emancipated, and the child is a legitimate heir.
When a girl is old enough to marry, she can of
her own free will marry any man by consenting
and receiving a part of her dower; but the
consent of the girl who is not old enough to
marry, is not required, her nearest male rela-
tive can dispose of her by receiving her dower.
The dower among the poor is small, but there
must be something paid by the husband or his
father to the nearest male relative of the
child.
	A wife may be divorced twice and return to
her husband, but if he divorces her a third
time, and, with a triple divorce declared, send
her away, he cannot live with her again until

[Column 2]

she has been one month married to another
man. After the third divorce, the husband
must pay the part of the dower which was set
aside for the wife before marriage, and he must
support her out of the house during the three
months in which she may not marry
again. If the wife be separated from
the man, and not divorced, she re-
ceives a weekly allowance from him. A
divorced woman may, after divorce, retain her
son, under two years of age, and custom gives
the child to the mother until it is seven years
old; then the father must claim the son. When
a man forfeits an engagement to marry, he
must pay the woman half her dower, and she
is free to marry at once. When a wife is diso-
bedient, the husband may beat her; if she per-
sist in disobedience he may take her with two
witnesses, not his relations, to the court, and
declare against her, and if she does not promise
to be obedient thereafter, is not obliged to feed,
lodge or clothe her, but need not divorce her;
and if he suspects that she desires to be di-
vorced in order to remarry, he surely will not.
If she confesses her wrong, and promises obedi-
ence, he must at once divorce her, or take her
home. If a wife does not wish to live with her
husband, she enters a complaint against him at
the court, stating that her family will support
her, and makes a demand for separation. If
the women of the same harem, or of different
ones, quarrel and are complained of to the
court, their husbands are punished by the
court; but we may be sure that their vicarious
correction does not save the poor victim from
chastisement. The husband divorces the wife,
but the wife cannot divorce the husband. If
the Muslim cannot marry a wife of his own
faith, or is deeply in love, he may marry a
Jewess or a Christian, but the children must
follow the faith of the father. A Muslim woman
may not marry a man out of the faith, unless
compelled by force, and a man may not live
with either Jewess or Christian to whom he is
not married. A master or mistress cannot
marry a slave. Copts do not divorce except
for unfaithfulness on the part of the wife; the
woman cannot divorce the husband. If a
Coptic wife commits a great crime, her husband
may separate himself from her; neither can
marry another, but they may remarry after
the law has been satisfied.
	Slavery and the bastinado yet exist in
Europe. The existing law does not recognize
primogeniture, and generally gives the woman
heir half what it gives the male heir of the
same relationship. After debts and legacies
are paid, one-eighth belongs to the wife, if
there be children; one fourth if there be none.
A husband inherits half of his wife's property
if she have no children; if she has children he
inherits one-fourth. If a man has only a sister
by the same father and mother, she inherits
half his property, while the only brother
inherits the whole of a sister's. The
mother, in certain cases, inherits equally
with the father. In the division of a man's
property there is no difference made between
the children of the legal wives and the slaves
and the adopted children: The illegitimate
child inherits only from the mother.
	For the murder of a man under palliating
circumstances, twice as much blood-money is
demanded as for the murder of a woman. The
killing of a robber has no penalty. A woman
convicted of murder should be drowned in the
Nile; the fine for wounding a woman is half
that for wounding a man. The Koran com-
mands that the unfaithful wife be put to [--]ath,
and this is done secretly, in spite of the efforts
to prevent the irresponsible from usurping the
prerogative of the law. A man taken for the
army is deemed dead to his family, For many
years mothers have maimed their sons that
they might be exempt from military service,
and often when the mother failed to do this for

[Column 3]

her son, he has maimed himself. It is useless
to appeal to a man's patriotism, when he must
fight for the overthrow of his faith, and the
spoilation of his people; no wonder that when
the conscripting officers enter a village, the
men flee to the tombs and holes in the rocks,
to escape their fate. Starvation drives them
back again; they are seized, chained neck to
neck, and packed upon the transports. And
it has not yet occurred to the most Christian
nation which inaugurated the last philanthropic
war, to change the conditions of military servi-
tude, so as to give the Egyptian women pro-
tection against desertion, when it has haled the
husband and father from home and family.
The wife is left to struggle with increased taxa-
tion, fines, mortgages and ignorance. During
the years of this afflictive visitation, sickening
scenes are perpetual on the banks of the Nile:
men forced away. women, with smeared faces,
following in crowds, wailing and crying as for
the dead, and dancing the funeral dance. And
as each conscript walks the long plank from
the shore, the women send forth curses on the
despoiler, and stretch out their arms in hope-
less agony to the poor victim who is to render
unwilling service to the captors of his country,
the foes of his faith. These sad sights, the
constant passing of transports with sick soldiers
down the river, and the general unrest of in-
vasion, have for five years prevented intelligent
travellers and invalids from visiting Upper
Egypt, and destroyed the long known luxuri-
ous peace and healthful repose of the Nile
voyage.
THEIR FUTURE.
	Among the rejected Gospels of the New
Testament is the Gospel to the Egyptians, in
which it is related that Salome asked our Lord
how long death shonld prevail, and the Christ
answered: "As long as ye women are mothers."
These words have been quoted to support celi-
bacy; but it is through this strongest element
in the Egyptian that Egypt's deliverance must
come. The mother loves her child and her
love is perpetual, and it has enabled her, under
 the oppression of these last years, to overcome
her indolence and sustain herself and her child-
ren, and hold her possessions. And other
women, without possessions, have sold in the
markets, tilled the fields, made trinkets, carried
water and driven donkeys for the stranger,
that they and their army orphaned children
might live. The class of women known as
dancing girls are the pest of the villages, and
the beauty we have read of does not appear;
they have not even that excuse for being.
But the slave women from the Soudan and
Abyssinia are the live industrial female power
of Upper Egypt. Their strong, well-shapen
bodies and amiable intelligence, promise a
coming race that may equal the Memlooks in
daring.
	But to what source can we look for any
speedy elevation of Egyptian women with a
religion which teaches them they depend on
the wish of man for immortality, that the
envious eye of a neighbor may destroy their
children, that their guardian-angel may play
them ridiculous tricks, cause them illness and
even death, that to be the mother of many
children is their justification for existing, that
the marital chastisement, authorized by the
Prophet, is the best proof of the husband's
love; that the daughter is purer and more to
be desired in marriage, if she cannot read or
write. that if she must go to school, she may
not remain after she is ten or twelve years old;
that she who has never been seen by her hus-
band is the truly virtuous girl; and that it is
the mother's duty to marry her daughter, even
if she does not desire to be a wife?
	Verily, a wide sea lies between the old, beauti-
ful Land of the Sunrise, and the new, fresh
Land of the Sunset.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHILDREN'S COLUMN.

OBEDIENCE.
	Obedience is the first step to salvation. The
Lord has said, "Children, obey your parents
(for it is right) Honor thy father and thy
mother, that thy days may be long in the land
which the Lord thy God giveth thee."
	We should also obey the counsels of our
teachers and our presidents, and all those who
are placed over us, and then we will be blest;
but disobedience always brings sorrow. Some
children are first disobedient to their brothers
and sisters who are older than they are—and
think they know as much as they do—then to
their parents; then they will not listen to the
counsel of the servants of God. And what
will be the result? Unless they control this
disobedient spirit, and hearken unto the coun-
sel given by the servants of God, and by their
parents, they are liable to go down to death
and destruction and be lost.
	So let us obey our parents; let us listen to
the counsel of our bishops and our presi-
dents, and to all the commandments of God,
then we will be crowned with glory in the
kingdom of God.
		BERTIE SCHNEIDER.
	Fourth Ward Primary, Logan,
		May 5th, 1888.

HOUSEKEEPING.
A Dialogue for Two Little Girls.
	Kate.—Well, Mary, I am pleased to see you.
I have thought for some time that I would like
to have a talk with you about housekeeping.
	Mary.—That is a very strange subject for
you to talk with me about.
	Kate.—Perhaps it is, but it will be for your
future benefit and blessing.
	Mary.—I have not thought much about the
future, and you see that I enjoy myself very
much at present. I am taking music lessons,
and of course I do not bother myself about
housekeeping.
	Kate.—Now listen to me. You expect some
day to have a home of your own, do you not?
	Mary.—To be sure I do, and a hired girl to
do my work; what do you think of that,
Kate?
	Kate.—I will tell you what I think; I am
afraid you will feel rather cheap about that
time,  if you do not know how to keep house.
	Mary.—I am nothing like you, Kate; it
seems to me that you take solid comfort in get-
tiny down on your knees to scrub the floor, or
to brush and dust, and also to do cooking for
all your folks, while I enjoy sitting down to
the organ and playing a sweet tune; it seems to
cheer everybody so much.
	Kate.—That is very nice, Mary; there is
a time for everything, but there is nothing like
knowing how to do your own work, if you
should have to, or at any rate to superintend it,
and do it right; have a place for everything
and everything in its proper place.
	Mary.—I believe you are right, and this I
must remember, "A place for everything and
everything in its proper place," and after this
I will try to learn something besides music and
pursuits of pleasure. I thank you for your
good advice.
		A. J. NORTH.


﻿Out of 87 candidates at the last examination
for admission to the Royal Academy, only
twelve succeeded in securing admission as pro-
bationers, and ten of these were women.
	A model will is that of the late Roscoe
Conkling. It is given here with the gentle
hint that wives copy the same and sweetly woe


their liege lords to affix their signature in the
presence of two witnesses. The will is as fol-
lows:
	I, Roscoe Conkling, of Utica, N. Y., do
make, publish and declare my last will and
testament ae follows: I give, devise, and be-
queath to my wife, Julia, and to her heirs and
assigns forever, all my property and estate,
whether real, personal, or mixed; and I con-
stitute and appoint my said wife sole executrix
of this will.
	In testimony whereof I hereto sign my name,
this 21st day of June, A. D., 1887.
		ROSCOE CONKLING.

	Among the women book lovers of the last
century Madame de Pompadour easily outranks
all others. Nor were her tastes for rare editions
and fine bindings merely an affectation. She
was heart and soul a student as well as a patron
of art. Said Voltaire: "She is one of us." Her
library numbered 8,000 volumes, hundreds of
them bound in full morocco and many of them
decorated in the most exquisite style by Pade-
loup and Derome. She was an intelligent col-
lector and knew the books which filled her
shelves. In fact, this celebrated woman was a
sort of female Crichton; she was well versed in
literature and art, skilled in drawing, painting
and etching, a fine musician, a good singer,
excellent actress and most graceful of dancers.
In 1865 her library brought 42,000 francs; to-
day the same books would bring a million.—
Book News.


The Salt Lake Sanitarian, recently estab-
lished in this city, of which the Drs. Shipp are
editors, was issued in May. The contents are:
Remedial Agents, by the editors; Olive Oil, by
Dr. E. R. Shipp, M. D.; Disinfectants, by Dr.
Brown; Scarlet fever, by M. C. Shipp, M. D.;
Do not Forget to Give the Baby a Drink;" be-
sides editorial and other matter suitable to such
a journal. It is quite up to the standard of
other medical papers we have seen, and is likely
to prove successful in its department of litera-
ture.


OBITUARIES.

	The Relief Society of Smithfield, Cache County, have
been called upon by our Heavenly Father to sustain a great
loss by the death of Sister Susan E. Weeks, who departed
this life at five a.m., May 1st, 1888. Deceased was born at
Cambridge, England, September 10, 1835; emigrated to
Utah in 1863. She has been a faithful worker in the Relief
Society, having been a teacher for several years, always
looking after the poor and sick. While we feel that she
has accomplished a good and noble work, and has gone
beyond the trials and temptations of this life to gain the re-
ward in store for her, we feel to deeply sympathize with her
bereaved family, her husband, Brother Sydney Weeks,
being in PRISON for the Gospel's sake. Her children are
left, for the present, with neither father or mother to counsel
and guide them.
		E. T. JUSHAW, Prest.,
		MA Y WOODRUFF, Sec.

	DIED, in Newton Ward, Cache Co., Utah Territory, on
the 30th of May, 1888, Susan Dermot Barker, wife of John
Henry Barker. She was born May 20, 1843, at South-
hampton, England. She joined the Church in her native-
land, being baptized in 1861, and crossed the sea in the
ship Manchester, and the plains in Captain Henry Miller's
Company in the year 1862. She was married in the year
1862 [--]enry Barker, and was the mother of nine children
and one grandchild, all of whom survive her, and she is the
first to pass behind the veil. She was a member of the
Relief Society; was teacher, secretary, first counselor, and
lastly president, holding the position of president a little
over two years, all of which positions she held with honor
and honesty combined. She was a devoted wife and
mother, and ever faithfnl to the cause of truth. Has resided
in the Tenth Ward, Salt Lake City Paradise, Providence,
Clarkston and Newton, Cache Co., Utah. Was much re-


spected, and was truly known to be honorable and just by
all who knew her, and passed away in the hope of a
glorious resurrection.
		COM.
Deseret News and Logan Journal please copy.

	DIED, in Nephi, Juab County, May 2d, 1888, MaryAnn,
wife of Thomas Pass. She was born January 28, 1812
in Lancashire, England; was baptized by Elder Jame
Hawkins in the year 1840; emigrated with her husband and
children to Utah in 1863, and has been a resident of this
place from that time to the date of her demise. Sister
Pass has been a faithful wife and mother, her devotion to
the Latter-day work was manifest in her daily life. As a
member of our Relief Society, she was faithful to every
duty, and it can truly be said she was beloved by all who
had the pleasure of her acquaintance. Her seat in our
Relief Society meetings was never vacant while her health
would permit her attend; she was richly endowed with
the gifts of the Gospel—tongues, interpretation and
prophecy—which in many cases has been literally fulfilled.
She leaves a husband, seven children, forty-nine grand-
children and five great-grandchildren. May they have
sufficient of the Spirit and power of God to enable them to
follow in her footsteps and emulate her noble example.
		M. PlTCHFORTH.

	Rest in peace, then, dearest sister,
		All thy earthly cares are o'er;
	O, the many loved ones waiting
		For thee on the other shore.

	Oh, what joy will fill thy bosom,
		Mingling with the good and true I
	Peace and rest will be thy portion,
		Heavenly blessings wait for you.

			M. P.


R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO,
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1888.	NO. 3.


[For the Exponent.]
ARISE! SHINE! FOR THY LIGHT IS
COME!

Arise! arise! thy light is come!
	O, Zion, rise and shine! 
Put all thy beauteous garments on,
	Uplift those eyes of thine,
For glory all unspeakable
	Is risen over thee;
Thy Lord, the incomparable,
	Thy light and joy will be.

Thick darkness covers all the earth,
	Through which thy light shall shine,
And give to many souls new birth,
	And thou shalt claim them thine;
And they shall fly to thine embrace
	As doves to windows fair,
Delighting in the Kingly grace
	Of Him who dwelleth there.

Thou shalt break forth on every side.
	Thy children cluster round;
Enlarge and spread thy curtains wide,
	Let strengthening stakes abound;
Swift ships shall bring thee sons from far,
	And daughters from the isles;
And kings their nursing fathers are,
	Queen mothers greet with smiles.

Behold, the Gentiles unto thee
	In meek demean shall come; 
Their kings thy rising splendor see,
	And swiftly, gladly run.
The sons of them that did oppress
	Shall bending come to thee,
The sons of strangers build thy walls,
	And princes bow the knee.

Whatever nation serves thee not.
	Thy God will lay it waste;
They who against thee gather up
	Shall perish for thy sake.
God hid His face in a little wrath,
	And left thee to thy foes,
But everlasting kindness shall
	His changeless love disclose.

Though mighty mountains should depart.
	Or hills flee far away,
His Covenants with thee remain
	And grace and mercy stay.  
Thy wood be brass, thy brass be gold,
	And Iron be thy stones;
Thy fair foundations sapphires hold,
	Thy borders pleasant stones.

No violence shall come to thee,
	Oppressors, none be found.
No wasting nor destruction be
	Within thy utmost bound.
Thy people all shall righteous be,
	Inheriting the land;
Thou shalt become a glorious tree
	Here planted by His hand.

His heavenly favor on thee beams,
	Thy walls resound with praise,
His love divine, in deepening streams,
	Flows 'round thee all thy days.
Rejoice! rejoice!  give thanks and sing.
	The hills repeat thy joy,
The trees and winds to praise thy King
	Their voices sweet employ.

Fear not! thou shalt not be ashamed,
	For He will glorious make
The place where He hath set His feet,
	And never thee forsake.
Rejoice! rejoice! be pure and true,
	No more in sadness wait;

[Column 2]

Thy Lord doth all his words renew-
	Redemption's at thy gate.

		LU DALTON.


[Column 1]

JULIA WARD HOWE.

	The recent visit of Mrs. Julia Ward Howe
to Salt Lake City, has awakened a desire to
fulfil immediately a promise made some time
since, when a short sketch was published of
Lucy Stone, that we would give a pen portrait
of Mary A. Livermore and Julia Ward 
Howe.
	Mrs. Howe has become more widely known
everywhere (in this country at least), through
her "Battle Hymn of the Republic," than even
her social, literary and political attainments
had made her, or one might with propriety add,
even the fame of her distinguished husband,
Dr. Samuel G. Howe, now some years deceased.
She will live in that one hymn as long as the
remembrance of the war shall last, and that
will be forever.
	Mrs. Howe was the daughter of Samuel
Ward, a banker in the city of New York, and
early in her school life the little girl had
written verses that betokened a brilliancy of
talent that has since been manifestly apparent
to the world. In these school days she pub-
lished a review of Lamartine's Jocelyn with
translations in English verse, and afterwards
another review of Dwight's translation of the
minor poems of Goethe and Schiller. How
these works were received by the literary world
we cannot say, but, at any rate, the girl kept on
"reading, writing and dreaming."
	When Mrs. Howe nee Miss Ward was twenty
years of age her father died, and soon after a
dear brother; then she began studying the
Bible with the same enthusiasm which had
characterized her in the study of philosophy
and other pursuits of a like nature. Inclined,
as almost all poetic temperaments are, to sea-
sons of melancholy, the sorrows that came
into her life intensified this mood, and she be-
came a "religious and spiritual enthusiast."
She was roused from this condition of mind by
studying "Guizot's History of Civilization,"
which awakened a new life within her.
	"At twenty-three she married Dr. S. G. 
Howe, of Boston—a man whose heroic labors
for Greece in her struggle for independence,
whose beautiful devotion to the blind, and
whose anti-slavery crusades, made men speak
of him as the new Bayard."
	They went abroad immediately, and though
the idol of her circle at home, "her only claim
to social distinction" abroad, "was her hus-
band's fame. Her first child was born in
Rome; her mother-love was strong, and her
passion for the supreme city was deep and fer-
vent." She lived in this divine atmosphere
for months, and then came back to the cold
clearness of New England days, settled into
the prosaic round of housekeeping, and gave
herself much to society." She read, however,
such works as stimulated her to "new resolves
of thoroughness and breadth of culture." In
1850 she went abroad again, and all this time
her strong, active mind was being improved by
what she saw and experienced in her journey-
ings here and there. Soon after she published
"Passion Flowers," a book of poems, said to
have been "over-blamed and over-praised."
She still continued to cultivate art and books.
Dr. Howe had charge of The Commonwealth,
and his wife contributed to its columns editori-

[Column 2]

als, verses and literary articles, which to her
was practical educational work, and must have
had a tendency to make her acquainted with
the most famous men and writers of the time,
a time that called forth the best powers and
thoughts of those "zealous for the liberty of
the slave." Her next book was, "Words for
the Hour." These poems, it is said, "were 
riper, and, even more full of promise."
	Still  studying industriously, still writing
peseveringly, in spite of criticism or flattery,
adhering to her own views, and maintaining a
distinct individuality and the courage one sel-
dom finds in woman, Mrs. Howe pressed on-
ward in her literary career. In 1857 she pub-
lished a play—"The World's Own"—brilliant
and brimful of dramatic feeling. It was
produced at Wallack's Theatre in New York,
In 1859 Dr. and Mrs. Howe accompanied
Theodore Parker to Cuba, and during her
travels she gathered material for a very charm-
ing book, an account of the journey, which
appeared first in the Atlantic Monthly, and
afterwards in a volume called, "A Trip to
Cuba." About the same time Mrs. Howe
wrote occasional letters to the New York Tri-
bune, from Boston, New York and Washington.
Her letters were "about the gay world and
people, and places of note, about summer days 
and autumn glories, about poetry, art and
religion." Mrs. Howe has studied the works
of  the great philosophers, Swedenborg,
Spinoza, Kant, Fichte and Hegel. She has
written many social and philosophic papers,
and has given lectures on ethics. She read a
remrkable lecture of hers at a meeting of the
American Society of Arts and Sciences, at
Northampton, Mass., called "Man a priori and
a posteriori." She has published essays, entitled,
"Polarity," "Limitation," and "the Fact Ac-
complished." We could name many other
essays of hers, but shall only mention one more
before closing this article, the one read at
the International Council in Washington last
April, on Organization.
	Mrs. Howe's last book of miscellaneous
poems is called, "Later Lyrics." She has a
lyrical series called, "Her verses," said by a
fine critic to recall Mrs. Browning's "Sonnets
from the Portuguese," with more of Sappho
and less of the saint." Mrs. Howe has written
a biography of Margaret Fuller, which does
her great credit, and is full of womanly tender-
ness in its style. A later book of travels,
"From the Oak to the Olive," is very highly
spoken of.  It is the story of a journey from
London to Athens via. Paris, Marseilles, Rome
Naples and Venice.
	Mrs. Howe has been, for many years, an
active member of the American Woman
Suffrage Association, of which she has some-
times been President. Mrs. Howe is President
of the Association for the Advancement of
Women, which holds its Congresses once a
year, generally changing from city to city to
accomodate members and reach the people in
different places. This fall the Woman's Con-
gress, as it is called, will meet in Detroit, 
Michigan. This Association gets confused
with the Suffrage Association by those who
are not familiar with the organizations and the
terms used, but it has no connection whatever
with that association, though a number of the
ladies are members of both associations, and
some of them not believers in woman's suffrage
at all. Mrs. Howe in a letter to me, dated
at Newport, R. I., Oct. 3rd, 1883, stated: "The


[Column 1]
topics for the Congress are all selected, and the
papers assigned, quite early in the year. Our
rules do not allow the introduction of any
papers not provided for in this way." This
gives one a little idea of the Association of
Advancement for Women. It is composed of
educated and cultured women, and they have
by-laws and so forth for the Association to be
governed by. Mrs. Howe is also President of
the New England Woman's Club, which was
organized Feb. 11, 1868, making it older than
Sorosis, the woman's club of New York City.
	These clubs were organized about the same
time that the Retrenchment Associations were
in Utah, since called Y. L. M. I. A., showing
that a spirit and influence to gain knowledge
by organized effort, and to do good to each
other, was abroad in the world. "The first ob-
ject of the N. E. Club was to organize the
women of Boston, at that time working singly
in the various fields of philanthropy, into a
compact body, and thus to greatly enlarge
their usefulness, the severely useful being, as
we outsiders acknowledge with proper humili-
ty, the watchword of New England." The
quotation made here is from an article by Olive
Thorne Miller in "Woman." As I have a de-
cided preference in favor of everything that
originates in New England, because, I suppose,
of the New England blood in my veins, and
my happy childhood there; I feel an uncommon
interest in the N. E. Woman's Club. The most
prominent names on the list of officers of this
Club are, Mrs. Howe, Prest.; Dr. Ednah
D. Cheney, Vice Prest.; and Miss Elizabeth P.
Peabody, the American mother of the Kindergar-
ten, said to be "one of Boston's most interesting
and representative women"—all three ladies
being lecturers in the Concord School of
Philosophy. Other noted members are, Abby
Morton Diaz, Lucy Stone, H. L. T. Woolcott,
Maria Mitchell, Kate Gannett Wells and Abbey
W. May. To tell our readers of the workings
of this Club and its development, would require
an article by itself, but we have mentioned it
incidentally in connection with Mrs. Howe.
	There are many interesting things one would
like to bring in when writing of this celebrated
woman, but it is impossible to include all in a
brief sketch. Mrs. Howe's versatility is very
great, she is brilliant in so many ways; unlike
many literary people and leading suffrage
women, she is what in the world is termed "a
society woman." She has been quoted as a
model mother, affectionate and devoted, yet
her scholarly attainments, rank her with men
whose lives are wholly given to their profes-
sion. 
	Mrs. Howe's article on "The Power of Or-
ganization," read at the International Council
in Washington last winter, was quite in keep-
ing with the views advanced by our people,
and rather reminded me of Brigham Young,
as it was much in his  line of thought on the
subject. Her article in The Forum for June
—"Men, Women and Money"—is a very good
good one, and her ideas on these matters do
not differ materially from those we advocate.
Mrs. Howe has had great opportunities, her
whole life having been spent in the midst of
people of wealth, education and culture.
	The post of President of the Woman's De-
partment of the World's Exposition in New
Orleans, in 1884-5, was a handsome compliment
to her executive ability, which she certainly
possesses in a large degree, and the result
proved her equal to the situation. She spoke
of her labors there with much satisfaction to
me, when I met her in New York in 1886, and
afterwards sent me her "Report and Catalogue
of the Woman's Department," a carefully pre-
pared work, containing, in perfect order, the
most minute details.
	It is said Mrs. Howe had auburn hair when
younger, but now it is beautifully white, and
well becomes her dignified and queenly bearing

[Column 2]
and is in harmony with the depth of thought
and research which her whole appearance indi-
cates. That such a woman should have writ-
ten the "Battle Hymn of the Republic" seems
only natural. Mrs. Howe has told us in her
own way in The Century how she was inspired
to write it. There is more in the hymn than
one is likely to see in first reading it, and as
there may be some who have never read it ap-
preciatively, we republish it here in full. 

BATTLE-HYMN OF THE REPUBLIC.

Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord;
He is trampling out the vintage where the grapes of wrath
	are stored;
He hath loosed the fateful lightning of his terrible swift 
	sword. 
			His truth is marching on.

I have seen him in the watch-fires of a hundred circling
	camps; 
They have builded him an altar in the evening dews and
	damps;
I can read his righteous sentence by the dim and flaring
	lamps.
			His day is marching on. 

I have read a fiery gospel, writ in burnished rows of steel;
"As ye deal with my contemners, so with you my grace
	shall deal;
Let the Hero, born of woman, crush the serpent with his
	heel,
			Since God is marching on."

He has sounded forth the trumpet that shall never call
	retreat,
He is sifting out the hearts of men before his judgement-
	seat:
O, be swift, my soul, to answer him! be jubilant my feet!
			Our God is marching on.

In the beauty of the lilies Christ was born across the sea,
With a glory in his bosom that transfigures you and me;
As He died to make men holy. let us die to make men 
	free,
			While God is marching on.

	It seems very strange that in Mrs, Howe's 
first visit to Salt Lake she could have been so
absorbed, as not to have any time to give to
"Mormon" women, and especially as at the
present time "Mormonism" is considered one
of the problems of the nineteenth century.
For a woman with Mrs. Howe's breadth of
thought, liberal views and knowledge of peo-
ples and countries, to come to Utah and not
meet "Mormons," must be similar to seeing the
play of Hamlet with the character of Hamlet
left out. "Mormon" women have as high an
appreciation of genius and talent, wherever it
exists, as any other women, and are ever will-
ing to accord "honor where honor is due."
We cannot but regret, for Mrs. Howe's own
sake, that she did not speak in a hall large
enough for all the ladies of Salt Lake City to
hear her. 				E. B. W.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANNUAL MEETING.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Annual meeting of our Relief Society
was held on Saturday, May 12, 1888, being the
twentieth anniversary since its organization.
There were present with us Stake President,
Sister Adeline Barber, her Counselor, Sister
Cardon, Sister Carrie, M. C. Smith, Stake Presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A., and others; also
quite a number of brethren. The meeting
convened at 10 a.m., when after the usual
opening exercises and much good instruction
the officers were unanimously sustained.
From 12 m. until 2 p.m picnic was enjoyed.
	In the afternoon a programme was rendered
consisting of a tribute of respect to the three
Presidents of the Society written by Sister E.
Nelson; songs, recitations and readings inter-


spersed with addresses by the brethren and
sisters.
		SECRETARY.
	Smithfield, May 24, 1888.


CORRESPONDENCE OF 1776.

BRAINTREE, Mass, 31 Mar. 1776.
	Abigail Adams to John Adams: I long to hear
that you have declared an independency. And
by the way, in the new code of laws which I
suppose it will be necessary for you to make, I
desire you would remember the ladies and be
more generous and favorable to them than your
masters. Do not put such unlimited power into
the hands of the husbands. Remember, all men
would be tyrants if they could. If particular
care and attention is not paid to the ladies,
we are determined to foment a rebellion, and
will not hold ourselves bound by any laws in
which we have no voice or representation.
Men of sense in all ages abhor these customs
which treat us only as the vassals of your sex.
	John to Abagail: As to your extraordinary
code of laws, I can but laugh.	*	*	*
Depend upon it, we know better than to re-
peal our masculine systems. Although they
are in full force, you know they are little more
than theory. We dare not exert our power to 
its full latitude.
	May 7, 1776, Abigail to John: I cannot say
that I think you are very generous to the
ladies,for while you are proclaiming peace and
good will to all men, emancipating all nations,
you insist upon retaining an absolute power
over wives.


Mrs. J. Ellen Foster, of Iowa, urged upon
the Republican Platform Committee at Chicago
the necessity of a pronounced utterance on th
temperance question.
	The justice that must surely follow the
equalization of the sexes would more than re-
pay the sacrifice of those small gallantries,
which are only acquired, and no outgrowth of
the soul within. A woman could well afford
to stand in a car for twenty minutes or more,
going home from her work, if she felt she had
received for her labor the same amount of
money a man would have earned for that
amount of work.—Woman's Chronicle.
	Rev. James Freeman Clark,the distinguished
author and Unitarian minister,died at his home
in Jamacia Plain, June 8. His influence was
marked on the educational and social life of
Boston and he will be especially remembered 
for his warm sympathy with the woman suf-
frage movement. He was always a valued
friend and co-worker of the New England leaders
in this reform. Mr. Clark was fond of recall-
ing his acquaintance with Margaret Fuller from
whom he used to say he had learned to see the
true value of life and how to live for a great
end.—Ex.
	Miss Clara Barton, president of the Ameri-
can Association of the Red Cross, whose name
is known and honored throughout the world,
has lately been the subject of some curiously
misleading newspaper reports. She has been
represented (probably owing to her internation-
al reputation) as a lady of foreign birth; and
the most diverse accounts have been given of 
her views as to woman suffrage. Miss Barton
by request, has furnished the Woman's Journal
with a statement of the facts; which are, that
she was born in Oxford, Mass., of pure Ameri-
can stock, and that she cannot remember the time
when she did not believe in woman suffrage.
This was made clear in her speech at the recent
Woman Suffrage Festival, which was imper-
fectly reported, and which she has kindly
written out, by our request.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.]
		THE REVOLUTIONARY OFFICERS.	
REFLECTIONS ON GEO. III AND FAREWELL TO GEN. 
					WASHINGTON.

Proud king, for all our hands have toiled, for all onr fre-
	hearts gave,
For this dear land we called thine own, that reared thee
	subjects brave. 
For tears and prayers and loyal faith and all true man 
	might give.
What hast thou giv'n but caused us 'neath oppression still

O, hateful tyrant! gone is now the glory of thy crown!
Tho' still on Britain's throne thou sit'st, on thee doth
	Heaven frown!
On thee hath fallen vengeance dire, thy weight was far too
	light;
And now with grateful tears and prayers we praise the God
	of Right.

And here in love, in pride, in joy before our chieftain dear,
We bow in humblest gratitude nor blush the manly tear—
Our tears have flowed in darker hours when toil and woe
	and war
Were dread companions, clouding e'er the light of Hope's
	bright star.

That star hath set; its dying beams were merged in
	brighter rays,
The Sun of Freedom flashes now its light on happier
	days,
And now upon this dear young land our benedictions
	move—
God keep it sacred, free and pure, and worthy of His love

And thou, our leader, bravest, best, pure gem of light
	and truth,
Let future ages ne'er forget the glory of thy youth;
Thy name shall be remembered e'er in grateful love and
	pride,
Full well we know thy noble worth who conquered by thy
	side!

Farewell! When other days shall come and fill thy soul
	with peace,
When tenderer love shall soothe thine heart and bid woe's
	conflict cease,
When waiting for a brighter day to view a happier world,
Remember still with joy the hour that Freedom's flag
	unfurled!
							RUBY LAMONT.
   Richfield, Utah, June 27, 1888.


[Column 1]

DR. RACHEL L. BODLEY.

	The Woman's Journal of June 23rd pub-
lished the death of Dr. Rachel L. Bodley,
Dean of the Pennsylvania Woman's Medical
College. Dr. Bodley was in charge of the
College when some of the ladies from Salt Lake
graduated. It will, no doubt, be a grief and
surprise to hear of her sudden death, which
occurred June 15th, the cause being heart
failure. She was taken seriously ill on Wednes-
day evening, previous to her death on Friday.
Dr. Bodley died at her home in Philadelphia,
but her remains were taken to Cincinnati for
burial. "Miss Bodley was born in Cincinnati,
Ohio, Dec. 7, 1831."
	After having been for some years a teacher
in the higher collegiate studies, Miss Bodley
became a special student in chemistry and
physics in the Polytechnic College in Phila-
delphia, in 1860. In 1862 she returned to
Cincinnati, and was given the position of Pro-
fessor of Natural Sciences in the Cincinnati
Female Seminary, which place she occupied
three years. "In 1865 she was called to the
chair of chemistry and toxicology in the
Woman's medical College of Pennysylvania;
she was elected Dean of the Faculty in January,
1874, and from that time" she has given her-
self time and talents to the college, and has
sought to secure for woman and her work re-
spect and recognition. She has held some very
important and influential positions, and had had

[Column 2]

conferred upon men the degree of A. M. in
the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila-
delphia; up to that time the institution had
never given a degree to any of its alumni sub-
sequent to the A. B. at graduation. "In 1880
she was made a member of the Franklin
Institute, and was the first woman to deliver
any extended course of lectures in the Institute."
"In 1882 she was chosen a member of the
Educational Society of Philadelphia, and
served three years as Director on the School
Board. After being out one term, "was re-
elected January, 1887, and held the position at
the time of her death."
	The Woman's Journal, in our opinion, pays
a glowing tribute to the memory of this re-
nowned Dr., when it says, "Dr. Bodley's house
was a centre of hospitality, and she was
crippled in her resources by the generous habit
of entertaining strangers attracted by her
 many points of contact with the religious and 
educational world."
	"She dies in the plentitude of her powers."
	"Her correspondents on behalf of the college
numbered, the Queen of England, Lady
Dufferin, and a number of illustrious persons
in several countries."
	From the accounts of Dr. Bodley, which we
have heart and read, she was, in some respects,
similiar to Dr. Lozier, whose death occurred a
short time ago. Both were eminent in the pro-
fession they had chosen for their special life-
work, and both were intensely sympathetic and
generous; they were neither of them afraid of
contact with "Mormon" women, but large-
souled enough to accord to them the same
courtesy they extended to other noble workers.
	The writer had the pleasure of seeing and
conversing with Dr. Lozier at her own home
in New York in the winter of 1886, and was
much impressed with her sympathetic views on
the rights of "Mormon" women. Her letter
protesting against the injustice of the Edmunds
law in their behalf, was widely circulated, and
proved she was not fearful of being contamina-
ted by defending the political position of the
women of Utah.
	"Dr. Bodley," it is said, "took Dr. Anandibai
Joshee into her own house, and with a beautiful
sympathy encouraged the little Hindoo woman
to adhere firmly to her national religion.”
	The world needs such women as these, with
broad views, liberal ideas, generous hearts and 
true respect for the opinions of others. Dr.
Lozier and Dr. Bodley were educated and re-
fined in the heart as well as in the head.
		E. B. W.


[column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.
DEAR EDITOR:

Having had the privilege of attending the
dedication of the Manti Temple and of par-
taking of the holy influence there enjoyed, my
mind has been filled with thoughts concerning
that holy place and the sacred ordinances there-
in performed. I wish all our young ladies
could have been there to enjoy the feast, for it
was certainly a feast to the soul and gave joy
and happiness to all who had contributed of
their means for its erection.
	It was a grand event in our lives especcially
so to those who had never been in a Temple.
The spirit that was there was proof that God
had accepted the labors and sacrifices of his
people, and had accepted the beautiful house
built to His name. Manifestations of ap-
proval were seen and heard by many. Yet
some try to make us believe we did not see or
hear anything of a heavenly nature, and at-
tribute the manifestations to earthly causes.
But we have a right to expect manifestations
of approval when we do the will of our
Heavenly Father and please Him by our
[column 2]
labors and sacrifices, and surely He and the
angels were pleased with the completion of
that house when the object to be attained is
the redemption of the living and the dead.
How grand, how beautiful and how broad is
the plan of salvation. No one who under-
stands .our religion can truthfully say we are
narrow in our views of salvation, when we
show by our willingness to impart of our sub-
stance, to devote our time and talents in erect-
ing houses for ordinances of the redemption
of all the dead as well as the living. What a
glorious principle is baptism for the dead and
what a work of love for the living to perform.
Attending the Dedication has had a good effect
upon the people, inspiring them with new zeal
to obtain their records of their ancestors and
increasing their desires to remain faithful that
they may be worth to receive blessings in the
House of the Lord.
	Oh, my young sisters, let me, as a friend and
sister who has your interest at heart, beg of
you to seek the things of God and live pure
and virtuous lives, shun the society of the low
and wicked, make the Lord your friend and he
will teach you by his spirit how to walk before
Him acceptably. Heed the counsels of your
parents and those who counsel you for your
good for they are your best friends though per-
haps now you think otherwise, but the time
will come, either to your sorrow or to your joy,
when you will acknowledge they were your
true friends and taught you what was right.
Do not, I beseech of you, shut the door of the
Temple in your faces by uniting yourselves in
marriage with one who is not of our faith; or
one who is unworthy to be recommended by
his Bishop. Think of it girls, think how little
you prize yourselves or your blessings, to give
yourself to one who can not be recommended
to the Temple. It may seem of little import-
ance to you now in your youthful thoughtless
happiness, but I tell you it is of vital import-
ance to you. You will find when trials and
troubles that are the common lot of humanity
come upon you, when you have sickness and
death and are brought down in humility and
sorrow; that you have cut yourselves off from
the blessings of the Priesthood, and forfeited
all claim to the ordinances of the Gospel and
where can you go for comfort and help? The
way of the transgressor is hard, but the way of
the righteous is peace. The wages of sin is
death, the reward of the righteous is life, even
eternal lives. I know that some of my young
sisters would rather marry a young man with
bad habits than one who is religious for fear
he (the religious one) would some time take an-
other wife. Be careful, my sisters. If you
understood the principle of plural marriage
and the destiny of those who practice it in
righteousness you would say with me, thank
God for plural marriage. I bear testimony
to you that plural marriage is a true and holy
principle and that God blesses and acknowl-
edges those who obey it. Although persecution
is heaped upon those who have embraced that
principle at present, it is true and from God,
and He will reward those who endure patiently
all persecution and trials for their religion. Al-
though my husband has been in exile three
and a half years and I have been left alone to
raise my children, and have never once seen
his face in all that time I have never for one
moment regretted entering into plural marriage
and I would rather have my husband in prison,
or in exile, and never see his face again in this
life, than to have him promise to obey the law
even though he would choose me to be his
lawful wife, because I know if we are true to
our covenants we will be associated together
in Eternity and receive all that has been
promised to us. Therefore we can afford to en-
dure persecution for a season and thank God
we are counted worthy to suffer for His cause.
					M. E. TEASDALE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Adveristing rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JULY 1, 1888.


FREDERICK III OF GERMANY.

	Most of our readers have certainly been inter-
ested in the Emperor Frederick, who so recently
succeeded to the throne,at the death of his father
the Emperor Wilhelm, who had so long reigned
over that vast empire. He died on the 15th of
June ult., at 11 a.m., after a most severe and
lingering illness and intense suffering. Daily
telegrams had kept the people somewhat familiar
with his case, which was a most singular one, in-
deed, and through it all the sublime grandeur of
his character was apparent. It is a matter of
regret that he has been cut down at such a
critical time, when the strength and genius of
such a sovereign would have been, speaking in
the largest sense, the salvation of the people. His
wife, too, had taken an active interest in plans
looking to the uplifting of the women of the
country, which must have resulted in the good of
the whole, for wherever women, in the aggregate,
are refined, cultivated and advanced, men must,
necessarily, be influenced for good. It is scarcely
expected of the Crown Prince, who succeeds the
Emperor, that his policy will be democratic or in
the interest of peace, as he is said to be a warrior-
born, like his illustrious grandfather, and to detest
anything English, even the English blood in his
own veins.
	It is said of Frederick, that he was courageous
when in battle, and that his career as an officer
was brilliant with success, but that "dazzling as
his victories were, his conduct at home won him
still more glory. With his devoted wife, he was
always prominent in measures for the advance-
ment of learning, for the improvement of the
masses, and for the amelioration of the rigors of
despotism." Frederick was himself a thorough
scholar, and had none of the arrogance of the
"old-style aristocrats," and was consequently
unpopular with men of that type. That there has
been genuine sorrow at his death there can be no
room for doubt, for he was truly the friend of the
people, and they loved him sincerely.
	Frederick III was born in 1831, and might have
lived yet many years to benefit his people, had not
a most cruel and fatal disease laid its heavy hand
upon him. Strange it seems, that looking for-
ward, as he naturally must have done, to the time
when he would ascend the throne, that his reign
and rule should have been so brief; and the entire
time one of suffering and pain. But the kings
and mighty ones are in the hands of the Lord,
and He turneth and overturneth at His good wili
and pleasure, and kingdoms and empires are sub-
ject to Him, and He will fulfill His purposes
concerning them in His own due time and way;
and in all things must His hand and His wisdom
be acknowledged.


VISIT TO SANPETE.
	Thursday morning, June 14th, we left this city by
train to attend, by invitation of Sister M. A. Hyde
the Conference of the R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. and
P. A. of Sanpete Stake to be held at Gunnison
Friday and Saturday, June 15 and 16. We arrived at
Manti the same evening, where we had the pleasure
of meeting Sister Hyde, and several other sisters
(acquaintances), who are at present officiating
in the Manti Temple. Sisters Hannah Grover of
Nephi, Rebecca Standring of Lehi, and Lucy B.
Young of St. George, were among the number.
Our visit was very pleasant. Bro. and Sister
Jesson who keep the Temple Hotel, are very kind
and courteous to their guests and make every one
feel as much at home as possible. Early the fol-
lowing morning we started off for Gunnison in
company with Sister Hyde, arriving found the
conference had been opened by Sister Helena
Madsen, Prest. of R. S. at that place. There
was a large congregation assembled and after
some interesting remarks by Prest. Hyde who
presided after her arrival, and some reports from
Presidents of R. S. in the Stake, the meeting ad-
journed with singing and prayer until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session was occupied in speaking up-
on the various subjects of interest pertaining to 
the work of the Relief Society and its progress
and advancement. Testimonies concerning the 
manifestations seen and heard in the Manti Tem-
ple at the time of its dedication were given in such
an impressive way as to pervade the assembly
with the spirit thereof.  Prest Hyde spoke pro-
phetically upon the signs of the times, alluding to
the prophecies of the past and the condition of 
the world at the present; we had the pleasure of 
addressing the sisters, the subjects being spiritual 
improvement, faith, etc. education, reading, culti-
vation of the heart, and practical duties of home 
and of public life. R. S. Conference adjourned 
about the usual hour until the 14th of September,
when it will be held at Fountain Green.
	There was no meeting held in the evening, but
we had an interesting time, and sat up late con-
versing with Bishop Madson and his wife upon
many things now transpiring in the world as well
as in the midst of the Saints.
	Saturday morning several wagon loads and
buggies containing the sisters arrived in good
time for the meeting from adjacent settlements.
	At 10 a.m. the congregation assembled in the 
Relief Society Hall, which is the largest building 
of the kind we have yet seen, and where the Re-
lief Society Conference was also held. Miss
Stena Willardson, of Ephriam, presided for the 
first time since having been called to the position
of Prest. of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake. 
She did so with much apparent diffidence being 
new to the situation, although there was no need 
of any hesitation on her part as she is abundantly
qualified and well calculated for the position.
Mayfield Y. L. was reported by Miss Augusta
Anderson; Gunnison, Miss Sarah Metcalf; South
Ward, Manti, Mrs. Matilda Allred; North Ward,
Manti, Mrs. Edith Billings Larsen; Ephriam, 
South Ward, Mrs. Dorcas Christenson. We then 
addressed the young ladies encouraging them in
the pursuit of knowledge and understanding.
	Mrs. M. A Hyde followed with excellent re-
marks and testified in a most solemn manner of 
having been taught the principle of plural marriage
by Joseph Smith, the Prophet, who married her 
to Apostle Orson Hyde in Nauvoo. 
	Mrs. Kjar and Mrs. Alvira Cox, of Manti,
Counselors to Miss Willardson, each spoke a 
short time in an instructive and edifying way. 
These young sisters, and those who reported, each 
and all of them manifested their interest in the 
Gospel and the work of improvement; they spoke
intelligently and in good voice; their manner and 
bearing were well calculated to impress the audi-
ence. 
[Column 2]
	In the afternoon the first speaker was Sister 
Lucy B. Young, who gave a dissertation upon
plural marriage, she has an excellent voice,
and a good gift of language, and is an easy speaker.
After some other remarks etc. the Primary Asso-
ciation of Gunnison had a representation.
	Prest. Stena Willardson made suitable remarks,
expressing her desire to fill the position to which
she had been called. There were a few exercises 
by the children well rendered.
	Mrs. Mary Metcalf, Prest. of the P. A. of Gun-
nison, gave her report and mentioned the chil-
dren's manuscript paper, which they edit once a 
month. The sister who had charge of an adjoin-
ing district reported her labors with the Primary 
in the Fields. After some remarks to the children
the Conference was adjourned by Prest. Stena
Willardson to Sept. 15, at Fountain Green.
	Saturday evening we drove over to Manti with 
Sisters Hyde and Young, where we spent the Sab-
bath very pleasantly and Monday morning went
over to Ephriam where two meetings were held,
one with the Relief Society and another with the 
Primary.
	At the R. S. meeting Prest. Peterson was pres-
ent and spoke a few moments during which time 
he asked the sisters to let their Hall be used to es-
tablish an Academy, where, besides the sciences
and useful branches of knowledge, theology, as the 
Latter-day Saints understand it in the Gospel,
might be taught. Such an academy or college 
in every stake of Zion would have a telling effect 
upon the young people. Prest. Peterson spoke of 
the liberality of the Relief Society; said he re-
ceived 1,000 dollars from the Relief Society, while 
abroad on a mission, to bring home the worthy poor.
	Coun. Sarah Peterson in her remarks said for 
years the sisters had saved their Sunday eggs to 
help bring the poor to Zion; this last year they 
had been donated to the Temple, but for years
they had made cheese in the Society, by putting
the milk together; if a sister only had a quart or 
two quarts of milk in the morning she would bring
it, and by this sort of co-operation much good had
been accomplished.
	The children at the Primary meeting rendered
quite a number of exercises very creditably, and 
the presidents spoke feelingly of the good work
in which they are engaged.
	The meeting was an interesting one and in fact
both the meetings at Ephriam were full of interest
and a good spirit prevailed there as well as at the 
Conference in Gunnison. The evening was passed
with Prest. Peterson and family in conversation 
mostly upon the Temple and kindred subjects and
altogether the visit to Sanpete Stake was a very
satisfactory one.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE series of papers on "The Women of
Utah," commenced in June 1st tissue of the paper
is unavoidably delayed, but we expect to publish
Part III in July 15th No.
	THE Primary Conference was held on Saturday
at the Assembly Hall, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson
presiding. It is the intention to publish minutes
of this conference in our next issue.
	We wish to say to those who have sent money,
and orders for Primary Hymn Books, and who
cannot understand why they are not forwarded,
that they are not yet bound, but it is confidently
expected they will shortly be ready for sale at the
same price as formerly.
	Letter from Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, who was
appointed at the April Conference to fill the posi-
tion made vacant by the death of "Sister Eliza,"
states she is in the enjoyment of good health, and
she sends love and greeting to the sisters in Zion
and hopes before long to return to her field of
labor here.


LETTBRS from Mrs. M. Isabella Horne to her
family bring word of her safe arrival in England,
and her good health, etc. We are sure the sisters
will be glad to hear of her safety, and will pray
for her, that she may accomplish what she under-
took the journey for, viz., to gather her genealogy,
and return home to perform her labors in the
Temple.
	THE poem, “I Will Answer For My People,”
published in June 1st of the Exponent, and
attributed to the gifted poetess, Sarah E. Car-
michael, we have since been informed was the
production of Mrs. Ida Sutherland, formerly of
this city. We make this correction in justice to
the author, as it was a mistake unavoidably made
on pur part, the two pieces having been sent us on
the same paper, and both credited to Miss
Carmichael. We regret the error very much in-
deed, and especially as the second poem should
have been separate, and entitled, “We Do Not
Call Thee Chieftain.”
	THE Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of this Stake
assembled June 22nd, in the Assembly Hall. in
this city, Mrs. M. A. Freeze presiding. The re-
ports by the young lady presidents were given in
a very intelligent and pleasing manner, and a
good spirit prevailed, and there is every reason to
believe the work of improvement is increasing,
and that success will crown the labors of those
who are so zealously laboring in this field of work
for the advancement of the daughters of Zion. In
the afternoon addresses were made by Dr. Ed.
Isaacson, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. S. Taylor,
Mrs. Mary P. Young and Mrs. M. A. Freeze, and
an adjournment was taken until September.
	THE Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held in the Assembly Rooms of the 14th
ward, in this city, June 21st, Counselor E. S.
Taylor presiding. There was a good attendance,
and verbal reports from nearly all the wards were
given, which occupied most of the time. In the
afternoon, however, Mrs. Emily S. Richards,
Delegate from Utah to the International Council
and Convention of N. W. S. A. in Washington,
gave a brief review of the representation, and re-
lated some incidents in her experience with the
ladies who assembled there, both of the Council
and the Convention, which followed soon after.
This was a new feature of the conference, and
was especially interesting to the audience. Mrs.
Richards has an uncommon good voice, and a
charming way of telling things; there is no doubt
she made a good impression among the ladies of
that grand Council, and it is a point in favor of
the women of Utah, that they were so ably re-
ported, and by one whose voice could penetrate
the most remote part of the large hall where the
Council was held. At the close of the conference
Counselor Taylor addressed the Sisters on practi-
cal matters pertaining to the organization, and in
a most earnest and effective manner exhorted all
to diligence and faithfulness. Conference was ad-
journed until September.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE NECESSITY OF PRAYER.
	I fully realize that the unexpected duties the
young daughters of Zion are frequently called
upon to perform, remind us that we should always
be prepared, and without we live prayerful lives
we cannot do right. We are different to the world;
they have no revelation to guide them, which we
claim to have, and if we write or say anything
that is not according to truth and righteousness,
those who are over us (being placed there by the
Lord) can soon detect an error, and so can those
in the Church who may read and learn what we
say, for those who do right all see eye to eye.
Let us pray for our brethren and sisters who are
over us in the Lord, who are ever on the watch-
tower, for we are told to do so, and it is, a pleasant


duty for us. The most of the world are against
us, as they have always been against the Church
of God, so let us be friends to each other, trying
to overcome everything wrong, that we may be as
the wise virgins, having oil in our
lamps, not copying after the world. We should
pray in secret. David prayed in secret seven
times a day. If we ask for wisdom, the Lord
“will give it liberally” to those who ask in faith,
and when we need His help to perform any duty
we shall have His Spirit to guide us.
Are we not greatly blessed when we think on
these truths? Our hearts rejoice, and we feel like
shouting for joy. Even those of us who are per-
secuted rejoice and give glory to God for His rich
blessings, and desire to “endure to the end,” for
the reward that is in store for us. We have noble
examples to copy from; the mothers in Israel,
with the “daughters in Zion,” are doing all they
can to inspire us to serve the Lord, that we may,
with His help, fulfil our duties. 		
Then, may we pray for true courage in holding
on to the truth, for,
		“It would be better to fall and rise,
			And limp with an aching sore,
		Than backward slide with downcast eyes, 
			From the bliss which is in store."
						Mary A. Freeze.


CAUTION.
Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed, lest he
fall.—1ST COR., X. 12. 
	Were not these the words of our Great Law-
Giver, who at an early age met the opposing
power?
	What did Herod say when the shepherds
heralded forth the news of a Savior’s birth? He
said, “Search diligently for the young child and
bring me word, that I may go and worship him
also." Then was Herod troubled, and all Jerusa-
lem with him.
	But there was another power, the power which
informed the shepherds of His birth. By this they
were warned of God in dream not to return to
Herod; they departed into their own country
another way; also Joseph and His mother were
warned to take the young child and flee into Egypt
“And be thou there until I bring thee word, for
Herod will seek the young child to destroy him."
	On following up this history, we find the op-
posing power continually on the alert to gain its
point; consequently the Savior’s words were,
“Watch and pray," and again I say unto you
“Watch.” Since these are the last days we are
living in, who can say there is no need of prayer.
Those who do will eventually learn which power
they aid. Do not we learn from holy writ that our
mission on this earth is to learn both the evil
and the good. Did not our mother Eve design
this, when she partook of the forbidden fruit?
	I often think the two great powers called good
and evil, are like the two great elements fire and
water. It is often remarked they are both good
servants, but hard masters. Yet how well both
can be utilized and brought to accomplish great
things by the wisdom which God has given to
mankind.
	You know water will readily quench fire when
in the ascendancy; and again, fire will drive water
into steam, and send it through space when this
advantage is taken. Accordingly, notice the con-
flict, and what do we see? Two great powers in
these elements. Now see how beneficial the re-
sult when brought under control. Our steam ships
and railroads and any amount of machinery is run
by fire and water. Our Bishop says this great
wisdom is given us because we are so near the
millennium or thousand years of rest.
	Well, since man has been given so much wisdom
in matters of science, what may not our Father do
who is at the head of all science?


I think He will be able to bring the two great
powers called good and evil into use, and to His
advantage, as easily as man can do by fire and
water. Did He not say He would make the wrath
of man to praise Him, and the remainder He
would restrain?	
	Never let us, then, be found to murmur or com-
plain of the trials we are called to pass through,
only be ready to meet them with fortitude and a
composed mind, feeling an assurance that the
hand, of God is in it all, and for a wise purpose.
	A revelation was given through the Prophet
Joseph Smith, saying,  "The Lord is angry with
none except those who do not acknowledge His
hand in all things."
							M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, June 22, 1888.


WHAT CONSTITUTES A TRUE WOMAN.

	True womanhood defined, implies—virtue and
purity, love and friendship, truth and sympathy
grace and refinement, modesty and intelligence.
Though her sphere may seem humble,yet she can
make it noble and queenly.  She must live for
those around her, and not for self alone.
It is hers to rear the souls of men.  To form 
the characters of future generations.
	The power of the world lies in her hands.  She
may make it a paradise of bliss, fit for the habita-
tion of the Gods; or she may make it an abode of
shame and misery, the haunt of evil spirits and
demons. ’Tis her privilege, in the holy order of
matrimony, to bless the earth with pure, noble
spirits.  More government lies in her hands than
all the kingdoms, republics, monarchies and
dynasties on earth combined.  Consisting in the
training and moulding of the characters of those
precious souls that God has entrusted into her
care.  For which she will receive reward or pun-
ishment accordingly.   And what is there on earth
more angelic than a pure, modest, chaste, virtu-
ous, benevolent intelligent woman? Or what is
more disgusting, than a haughty, proud, petulant,
shrewish, selfish, demoralized one? It is a duty
that each woman owes to her family and to society
—to be cheerful and pleasant, courteous and
friendly, neat and cleanly in her personal habits.
Paying some regard to the cultivation of taste
and refinement. Being careful and choice of the
language she uses at all times. Yet it is by no
means her duty to keep up with the times in re-
gard to fashion. No true woman can afford to do
that at the risk of neglecting the moral, intellectu-
al and religious training of herself and family.
Life is not long enough for much spare time. She
must make the best use of it possible and then
perhaps at the“end”of mortality we may see much
left undone.
	Each young lady should have her model selected
from the noblest of God’s daughters, who have
done a good work on earth, emulating their good
qualities and omitting all evil.  Living, as we do,
in a time when the gospel is restored to earth in
full power, we are expected to shine with far more
brilliant lustre than we otherside would be, and
we will be held accountable thrice over for the
time we use to no good. And an hundred-fold
punishment will be given us for the time we spend
in idle gossip and the many evils resulting there
from. “But let our conversation be yea, yea, nay
nay.” That is to treat of facts, “for what is more
than that cometh of evil.” In all our social circles
let each one strive, or aim, to gain a higher plane
of intelligence. Never for one moment, encourag-
ing the least thought of vulgarity, much less to
give utterance to the same. Society is necessary
in its own place, but like all other good, it has its
uses and abuses, either to exalt or to deprave.
	Again, true woman will not live for immediate
surroundings. It is hers to visit homes of the
poor and afflicted, the outcast and despairing, and
in her benign way impart words of comfort and


encouragement; which is as divine a mission as
to bind the bleeding wounds of the soldiers after
a battle. Even to bind the wounded hearts that
droop and die around us every day. Who by
one kind word might take courage and resolve to
become useful in doing good on earth. Thus she
might prove herself to be
		"Yet a spirit still and bright,
		With something  of an angel Light."
	She must also keep her home bright and cheery.
Be pleasant and companionable to her family.
Thus might she keep her father and
brothers, her husband and sons from haunts of
vice and corruption, and, by wielding her holy in-
fluence in the right direction win back the lost
ones to light and love. Then let us say no more
that woman has no work to do, no mission to per-
form! Let men boast of their strength and power,
yet the world could not progress one step farther
without the aid of woman. And though she, in
the estimation of law is placed below negroes and
Chinamen still she has a powerful influence for
good if 'tis but wielded in the right direction.
	I would say to the daughters of Zion, be humble
and prayerful in order to retain the Holy Spirit to
direct our minds our words our deeds, that we
may be worthy the name of true, noble, women
—daughters of God.
							TRUTH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY CELEBRATION.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	As Montpelier is seldom heard from, I thought I
would write a few lines in behalf of our Primary 
Association, which is progressing under the able
management of Sister Ann Bunney, who labors
unceasingly in its interests; she, with the help of 
her assistants, is doing much good among the
children.
	On the morning of the 1st of June there might 
have been seen fifteen vehicles, loaded with child-
ren and accompanied by a number of the parents,
on our way to the Preston Grove, where we met
with the Preston Primary Associaton for the pur-
pose of celebrating the birthday of President
Brigham Young.
	It was especially planned for the enjoyment of 
the children, and all who participated enjoyed
themselves very much. 
	The forenoon exercises consisted of songs,
recitations and dialogues from the children, which
were all rendered in a very creditable manner;
also appropriate speeches from Bishop Dalrymple 
and Bro. Osborn. 
	Then came a time of feasting for the children
on the good things prepared for them. 
	The afternoon was spent in swinging, fishing,
boat-riding, ball-playing, games, children running
races for candy, etc.
	Everything went off very pleasantly, and at five
o'clock all prepared to return home, after having 
spent a very enjoyable day. 
					ALMIRA HOLMES, Sec.
	Montpelier, Idaho.


[Column 1]
﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Once more I take up the pen to give a few
items to sisters and friends, which I hope may
find room in some of my sisters’ and friends’
hearts, that they may see that the Saints up
here are yet alive.
	The weather has been pleasant since winter 
left us, though we had a very bitter cold winter.
The Saints up here are trying to live the princi-
ples of their religion. Our Relief Society is
doing well. We are not behind in the enter-
prise of human intelligence in this place; we 
have the Y. L. M. I. A. meetings every week,
and we also have the Primary Association. We

[Column 2]
have a noble Bishop —James Thomas—with
his Counselors, who visit our meetings and give 
us good instructions.
	Having found in our WOMAN’S EXPONENT
many helpful hints about housekeeping and
practical plans to lighten labor, as well as
sensible suggestions on all subjects of interest
to wives and mothers, I feel inclined to add a 
little for the possible benefit of some of the
busy women, who partake at odd intervals of 
the wholesome mental dishes served by the 
EXPONENT. Especially do I wish to address
those who are over-loaded with household cares,
like myself, too poor to keep help, and yet by 
nature always willing to work, even to over-
work one’s self.
	I have read, and will never forget, that
woman’s life is an endless warfare with work,
and it overcomes us at last. This has led me 
to thinking of the folly of giving up to the 
work, and doing a great injustice to ourselves
and others in keeping up with all our might
this contest, until it finally overcomes us; and 
how unsatisfactory the result, that when at 
last our work is done, the best that may be 
said of us will be, “She was a model house-
keeper.” When I was a young housekeeper I 
did not have much to keep house with, like
many others in early days; we had to work
hard to get things to keep house with; work 
with energy of mind and body. In those days 
there was not much piano playing or buggy 
riding, though I do not begrudge any one their
pleasure. 
I do not wish to be understood as advocating
any unjust claim in these regards, but only 
wish to draw a line between essentials, and non-
essentials; an imaginary line it must be, as
each of us can best decide for ourselves what 
is in our homes. At the time to which I re-
fer, my circumstances, sometimes, permitted
me to have a girl to help me. In these latter
years I recall with real pain the hard work
that I have done. This lesson has given me
some gains for my loss; one of them is the true
view of the question of what part of my work
is really necessary to the general welfare of
myself and family, and what other part may
be omitted. Indispensible work takes more of 
my time than I can afford to give.
	I would ask my sisters, who, like myself, 
perhaps, have been severely taught mentally
and morally at the same time, give ourselves
some rest, even if less work is done. It seems 
often to arise in my mind as a complete ques-
tion, as we have been gifted with one, five, or 
ten talents, have we any right to bury them,
or should we not try to improve these talents
which our Heavenly Father has given unto us?
I admit that I have not used or improved my 
talent as I ought, and should have done, but 
there are excuses, under circumstances in 
which we are sometimes placed through life,
where we cannot always help ourselves; we 
should try to manage our talents, and brighten
and refine ourselves, and our religious duties we
must not neglect.
	It is wise to give a large share of our time
to the preparation for our future treasury for
our spirit, and it is also right to make our
home as comfortable with our children as possi-
ble as lies in our power, but yet, if we in the
doing of all this, consume the time that should
be used in sleep, are we doing our highest duty
towards ourselves and family? This life seems
to me too short for us to be so largely given up 
to the requirements of the body. If parents
would but place this matter before their child-
ren as they grow up, that they might do better
than we have done, instead of gaining worldly
wealth, that perishes with the flames. And in
order that we may be prepared to satisfy our
minds and hearts with wholesome food, we
must take time for proper remedy in our duties;
if we don’t clothe our souls and body in accord
we are placed under more suffering; we must,

[Column 3]
as mothers, have some quiet alone to read, 
think and plan for ourselves and our children; 
I know for my part that I need to study and
pray continually, in order to comply with the
work that must be done, both temporally and
spiritually, but yet with my management there
have been years in which I have not had hard-
ly any rest or sleep, having been so over-worked
that my body actually could not rest, and then
the children needed some assistance, and I 
never felt like imposing upon their right, for 
my conscience would not allow me to rest, but
to attend to my duty toward them, and their
tender feelings; thus, my time and hours of 
rest have often been postponed altogether. 
	I have yet a lesson to learn, how to use and
not waste my time and strength, and have 
learned that it never pays to overwork our
nature; system, order and truthfulness are all
important, nor can we hope to plant such habits
in the minds of our sons and daughters except
by good examples; these will be remembered
longer yet we must not forget that this lesson 
must be taught at the fireside, as well as in our
own home, and this is the experience which I 
have drawn from the foregoing: We are rob-
bing our own children and ourselves of what
is worth far more to them and us than we can
estimate. Let us beware, lest we put cleanli-
ness before Godliness. In regarding this ques-
tion in a pure predicted light, it certainly does
not pay to allow our consciences to absorb our 
whole time and strength. The broken health
of the mother of a home and family, involves,
sometimes, years of increased expense, and, in
many directions besides, the inevitable loss from
waste and mismanagement.
	If we are immoderately fond of our house-
keeping during the first years of our children, 
by the time they have reached the learning 
point between youth and maturity, we are
broken-down, fretful invalids, totally unfitted
to be to them what we should wish to be, their
companions and helpers through this very im-
portant period of their lives, and how can we
say that we are doing our duties as mothers?
Sons, as well as daughters, are safest who make
confidents of mothers; they will do if mothers
have taken time to listen to their wants, and 
taken a lively interest in their affairs, great
and small. This is one investment that pays.
	R. POND. 
Eagle Rock, Idaho, May 18, 1888.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			SNOWFLAKE STAKE.	
	The quarterly conference of this Stake was
held at Snowflake June 1st, 1888, Prest. 
Emma S. Smith presiding.
	Sisters Sarah Driggs, Emily J. Lewis, Mary
A. Standifird and Mary J. West made instruc-
tive remarks on various subjects of interest.
	Jemima W. Smith was set apart as Stake
Treasurer by Prest. Jesse N. Smith. Statistical
and financial reports were then read. The
officers of the Stake and of the different ward
societies were presented and sustained by a 
unanimous vote.
	Bros. Joseph H. Richards and Lorenzo H.
Hatch also addressed the conference. Ex-
pressed pleasure in meeting with the sisters,
and felt grateful for the good spirit that had
prevailed. Counseled the mothers to teach
their children the principle of faith.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith made a few closing 
remarks, after which conference adjourned for
six months. Singing. Benediction pronounced
by Prest. Jesse N. Smith.
			DELLA FISH, Stake Secretary.

			EMERY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief 
Society of Emery Stake was held Friday,
April 20, 1888, at Castle Dale.


[Column 1]﻿
	At 10 o’clock the meeting was opened by
the singing of the Castle Dale choir, and prayer
was offered by Stake President C. G. Larsen.
The minutes of previous conference read by the
Secretary and unanimously accepted. Sister
Kathinka Andersen was unanimously sustained
as minute clerk of the conference. The re-
ports of the several wards were read, and ex-
hibited the several branches in a lively condi-
tion. The poor had received a liberal share of
the generous donations from the sisters.
	Sister Anna Larsen, the President of the
Relief Society of the Stake, expressed her
happiness for the blessed opportunity of meet-
ing once more with the sisters of Emery Stake
in our semi-annual conference, and that every-
thing around smiled in favor upon us. There
had been considerable whooping-cough and
other sickness, but few deaths among the
children, but it was now getting better. She
desired all the Secretaries to be present, to get
an understanding of the correct way of making
up the reports, as many did not comprehend
this difficult labor, and thereby caused a good
deal of unnecessary trouble for the Stake
Secretary.
	Sister Avery, of Huntington, Mary Olsen;
of Ferron, Ellen Robertson of Orangeville, and
Stine Olsen of Castle Dale, each gave a report
of the Society over which she presided, and
stated that all was well; the sisters were able to
aid in the good of relief and spread of benevo-
lence and comfort all around, and much good
had already been realized from these organiza-
tions in the different wards, by visiting the sick
and alleviating wants.
	Sister Shomaker gave a report of Molen
Ward; said all was well there, and the sisters
were united in their good works.
	Sister Childs, First Counselor to the Stake
President, said she never felt better than to-
day, and wished she could say the same six
months hence, because our path seems often
strewn with troubles and trials. “We should
try to live honest and upright before God,
fast and pray, that the Lord might hear us in
the hour of darkness. We should cultivate
purity of heart, that is the costly jewel for
Latter-day Saints, even if the outward appear-
ance is not so attractive; we may be like a
plain bound book filled with good instructions,
while sometimes a finely ornamented volume
may contain entirely unwholesome, or even
poisonous reading. As mothers, we should
study our children, and adopt the best and
most effectual plans to raise them in the fear of
God, and always keep them under that
power.”
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Choir
sang. Benediction by C. G. Larsen, Jr.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m.: Opened with
singing, Prayer by Bishop Henning Olsen.
	Sister Pulsipher, of Huntington, Second
Counselor to the Stake President, was the first
speaker. She felt happy for the privilege of
meeting with the sisters on this occasion. We
had no reason to fear neither the Edmunds-
Tucker bill nor any other measure aiming at
our overthrow, if we only keep near God. As
President Woodruff says in the Epistle to the
Saints, ‘This organization of the sisters is for
the purpose of cheering each other, and to
visit the sick and aid the poor, and the more
we do of this, the more abundant will be our
blessings.’ Good instructions given by mothers
to the children will stay by them so they can
go to both Primaries and other meetings and
they will behave well and be benefited.”
	Several of the sisters joined in a faithful
testimony concerning the great Latter-day
work, and their joys in the cause of Relief.
	Prest. C. G. Larsen next addressed the
meeting. Was pleased for the honor conferred
upon him, to occupy a short time; was very
favorably impressed by the minutes read of

[Column 2]
conference six months ago, and wished they
had been printed. “It is proper and right that
we should represent ourselves through our
papers, and the sisters had their own paper—
the Woman’s Exponent—where they can be
heard from, and we should support that paper,
and hand in our contributions to the same.
The noble sisters will yet rule the world with
their great influence as mothers, and many of
them will be sent as ambassadors from Zion, to
invite the good and upright to join in their
labor of kindness and love, because there are
yet as good fish in the brook as has been
brought out from there. Woman suffrage has
of late been much ventilated East, but it
would be a blessing for any nation to give the
women a voice at the polls, as surely less vice
and corruption, drunkenness and debauchery
would exist, and such men would not be placed
in authority to rule over people, who often now
are much better than their rulers.” Concluded by
asking heaven’s choicest blessing to rest upon
the sisters of Emery Stake and their noble
work.
	Several more of the brethren and sisters
present added their testimonies and experiences
in the Church of Christ.
	On motion Kathinka Andersen was unani-
mously sustained as Assistant to the Stake
Secretary, and was set apart to this office by
Prest. C. G. Larsen.
	Prest. Anne Larsen made the closing re-
marks by expressing her satisfaction with all
we had done during this conference, for all the
good counsels and encouragement we had re-
ceived, and hoped we might gather strength for
the time coming, and to remember the poor
and suffering, and try to warm every heart with
the sunshine of love and sympathy. “This is
our mission, and may we all honor it.”
	Conference was then adjourned until October
20th, at Orangeville. Benediction was pro-
nounced by John Jensen.

KATHINKA ANDERSEN, Ass't Sec.
BANNOCK STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of Bannock Stake, which
convened in Rexburg Hall, May 18, 1888,
Prest. Temperance Hinkley presiding. Meeting
opened by singing. Prayer by Coun. Telitha
Helm. Singing, “Glorious things are sung of
Zion.” Roll called, and minutes of previous
conference read and approved.
	Sister Sarah Holman, First Coun. of Rex-
burg Society, reported that Society as doing
well. Asked God to bless the Relief Society
with unity, that it may be able to do much for
the advancement of this great work.
	Coun. Henriette Dudley, of Teton, said the
majority of the sisters in her ward had small
families, and it was hard for them to get out to
meetings, and bore a faithful testimony.
	Prest. Louisa Butler, of Lyman, said her
Society was in a prosperous condition, and bore
her testimony.
	Sister Caroline Jacobs, of Salem, said the
sisters of that ward were trying to live their
religion and train their children aright.
	Prest. Orrissa Brower, of Wilford, said they
felt like going forward and performing their
duties better in the future, and asked the bless-
ings of the Lord to rest upon all.
	Prest. T. Helm, of Burton, said the sisters
there were doing well considering their num-
bers, which were few. “There is a good at-
tendance, and all feel to help one another.”
	The statistical and financial reports were
read, showing that the different branches in the
Stake were in a good condition.
	Stake Prest. Temperance Hinkley addressed
the conference. Expressed her approbation of
the work of the Society, and felt pleased to see
so many trying to perform their duties. “We
should be strictly disciplined in the government

[Column 3]
of God, and bring up our children to be an
honor to us. We should teach them by ex-
ample to attend their meetings; we should send
them to Primary, Sunday School and fast
meetings, for there they get the spirit of testi-
mony. We should be prayerful and humble,
that the Lord may pour down His blessings
upon us. If we would be united and do our
duties we would have no time to backbite each
other.”
	Sister Zina D. H. Young told us we should
not quench the Spirit of God, “and evil speak-
ing of each other helps to quench the good
Spirit.” Bore a strong testimony to the truth
of the Gospel, and asked that the blessings of
the Lord might rest on the sisters of the Relief
Society. Would like all to help build a Stake
house. Sister Young bore her testimony, and
gave many good and timely instructions.
	Stake Coun. Telitha J. Helm exhorted the
mothers to be united, and prize their children
above all the riches of the earth. “The Lord
gave them to us pure, and if we don’t bring
them up as we should do, the Lord will hold
us accountable for it. This is a great and
glorious work, and I am thankful that I was
permitted to come down in this last dispensa-
tion of the fulness of times.” Urged the neces-
sity of living pure lives, and be prepared to go
to the temples of God, and do our work for
our dead. “If any one is falling from the faith,
speak to them with all humility and kindness,
and help them climb the hill of perfection; or
if any one is cast down, cheer them up. Asked
God to bless the sisters and unite them as one, 
for in unity there is strength.
	Sister Sarah A. Barnes had felt greatly in-
terested in the good reports, and the instruc-
tions we had received. “I think they have
sunk deep into the hearts of all present, to
grow and blossom in future time. I was pleased
with the instructions given us in regard to the
rearing of our precious jewels God has blessed
us with. Being the President of the Primary,
I take great interest in the advancement of
our children. I think there is no greater
work than with the children; we should teach
them to live for something beyond this world,
to make their aim high, and strive to reach
it. We should improve our talents and educate
ourselves, for the Lord has said we never can
be saved in our ignorance.”
	The Stake and local officers, as they stand,
were unanimously sustained.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Closed by singing, “Arise, oh, glorious Zion.”
Benediction by Sister Sarah A. Barnes.
SARAH A. BARNES, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


ECONOMY OF STRENGTH.

	We frequently read long articles on economy
of time and of material, but where one woman
is obliged to not only furnish the brain to di-
rect, but also the hand to execute all the work
of a household, there is great need for her to 
study economy of strength.  Upon her depends,
in a great measure, the health, comfort and 
happiness of her family and the enjoyment of
her guests.
	Although her house is in perfect order and 
her meals served in the best possible manner,
if she is herself all "fagged out," the home will
lack an important element of comfort.
	"But," I hear some one say, "the work is to 
be done, and I must do it."  Yes, but why
not work in the easiest way—saving all the
 labor you can, teaching others to save for you
and planning each day for a resting time.
Why should the farmer's wife rise early and 
work straight through the long, hot summer
day, while the farmer, his hired men, and even
the horses and oxen must have the noon hour
to rest, to lie under the shade of the trees, per-
haps, to take a little nap.  They know they


[Column 1]
can work better for this rest, and it is right
that they should have it.  Why does not the
busy housewife need it just as much?  Too
often, all the rest she allows herself is when she
sits down to soothe a fretting baby, and then
her mind is busy thinking of the work yet to
be done, and actually continuing her toil
through her imagination, thus robbing herself
of the little rest she might have gained.
     Much strength can be saved by wise and
systematic planning—by doing everything in
the easiest way, when no one will be the loser
thereby.
     Of course, there are many kinds of house-
hold work that cannot be slighted, but there
are others that can.  It is a step in the right
direction if, when ironing day comes, the 
sheets, pillow-cases and towels being neatly
folded, a board laid on top and a weight
placed on that, they are left to iron themselves.
All the common, every-day underclothing can
be quickly smoothed, all that is necessary, by
ironing on one side, and if some wrinkles are
left in they will not do any harm.  It is better
that they be in the clothes than on the house-
mother’s brow.  I know one of the neatest of
housekeepers who told me that in the summer
she irons all her sheets, pillow-cases, towels
and plain pieces by sitting out under a tree
and running them, nicely folded, through her
clothes wringer.
     One thoughtful woman says: “I have pasted
on my sewing machine this query: “Is it neces-
sary or really beautiful? Is it worth my time,
strength and thought?” Since I have measured
my sewing by that rule, it is surprising how all
tucks, ruffles and superfluous stitches have
vanished, and not only strength saved at the 
sewing machine, but also at the wash-tub and 
ironing table.”
	Do not spend so many of the beautiful,
summer days in a hot kitchen making jellies
and preserves, Plain, canned fruit is much
more healthful, and takes so much less time to 
prepare.
     If the fruit must be bought, it is just as
cheap to buy it ready canned and frequently
substitute the fresh fruits which can be so
cheaply bought in the winter, since cold storage
and fast fruit-trains have been in operation.
     No one will be the sufferer if jellies and
preserves are stricken entirely from the bill of
[-]are, and the already overburdened housekeeper
will be the gainer.
     Not only should every housekeeper regard it
as a duty to save herself all the work possible,
but if she would make the most and the best 
of herself, she must have a fixed purpose to
give herself an hour of quiet rest every day,
and to take at least a part of that rest lying
down.  I know many women will look upon 
the idea of lying down in the day-time as
wholly absurd and impracticable, but I wish
those who find the daily round of household
cares and duties becoming almost unbearable,
and who go to their beds every night with 
aching back, tired heads and weary feet,
would try this plan.  I am satisfied that they
would soon find it economy in more ways than
one.  Nature will not bear everything, and if
we continue to carry burdens far beyond our
strength, a breaking down will surely come at 
last and rest be enforced.  It may be the long
 and dreamless rest.
     If you cannot take the hour all at once,
take it part in the forenoon after the hurry of
morning work is done, and part in the after-
noon before getting supper.  If there is a baby
to be nursed, lie down with it, persistently shut
the work away, and, if possible, fall asleep
yourself for a few minutes.  One rests so
much faster lying down than in any other posi-
tion.
     What if some neighbor happens to come in 
and find you lying down, and straightway re-
ports you “shiftless?” If you find that you can do

[Column 2]
your work easier and better in this way, be
brave enough to do what seems right to you.
I know how this is.  Well I remember the long,
hot summers when I denied myself much needed
rest, and for fear of what others might say,
toiled on until it seemed to me the kinder idea
of heaven was the most blissful one, until the 
very sound of my children’s voices was a posi-
tive pain to me.  But, thanks to one of the 
best of husbands, who insisted that because
others were working themselves to death was 
no reason that I should, I have found a better
way, and would gladly lead all tired workers
to see the value of economizing their strength
and giving themselves the hour of rest, if they
would keep their faithful hands on the house-
hold wheels, and not lay down their work half
done for some other hand to finish.—The Farm
and Fireside.
MAIDA McL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Garfield has given $10,000 to the Gar-
field University at Wichita.

	A Hindoo Girls’ High School has been
started at Allahabad.  It has already more
than a hundred pupils.

	Certain Frenchwomen are about to found a
scientific review, La Revue Scientifique des
Femmes.  The directors are already chosen.  A
lady who is a physician to the sultan’s seraglio
is a corresponding member.  The editor is Mme.
Renoz, a Belgian.

	Mrs. Gage, chairman of the executive com-
mittee N. W. S. A., especially urges the vice
presidents to attend immediately to the matter
of writing to the delegates from their districts
to the remaining political conventions, urging
their favorable action upon the memorial
which will be presented to them by the Nation-
al W. S. A.

	The late Emperor of Germany disliked to
hear any one speak slightingly of women.
When he was Crown Prince, an officer once re- 
marked of  a wounded comrade that he was
“weeping like a woman ” “Never make that
comparison,” said the Crown Prince with a
frown. “Crying like an unweaned child would
be better.  Women have more fortitude than
men.”

	Mrs. Emily Crawford, the Paris correspond-
ent of the London Daily News and of the N.
Y. Tribune, who has accomplished some re-
markable feats in journalism, was asked the
other day by a commissioner of the Pall Mall
Gazette, “What is the best way to attain excel-
lence in journalism, and to keep it?” She an- 
swered. “To be very genuine, and to keep be-
tween two poles—eternity and the present mo-
ment.  Do not pester about to-morrow or the
next day.  Go at the business on hand; and
rise above the accidental and all-debasing en-
vironments, by doing your best and then fold-
ing your arms like a fatalist.  We lose so
much force in not being frank and genuine; we
worry so much and to no purpose, in not leav-
ing Providence or Fate a very big place in our
calculations."
	Florence Nightingale says, in a recent letter:
“Without women there can be no domestic
hygiene.  The finest principles and works of
sewerage, water supply and ventilation must,
without the housewife, almost remain a dead-
letter.  But let her be practically instructed
how to keep air, earth and water pure, and to
admit light into her house, and the health and
life-giving machinery is complete.” The As-
sociation of Collegiate Alumnae, among its
other good works, founded a Sanitary Science
Club, which has instructed a number of young
women in this important subject, and has


brought out a little book giving practical hints
on domestic hygiene.  Miss Marion Talbot,
secretary of the Collegiate Alumnae; makes a
specialty of this subject, and has given a val-
uable course of lectures upon it to the young
women at Wellesley and elsewhere.—Ex.


IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, at her home in Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah, April
16, 1888, after a short illness, Sister Anne Kathrine Poulson,
beloved wife of Bro. C. Poulson, and daughter of J. C.
and Martha M. Outzen.  She leaves a hushand and six
children and numerous relatives and friends to mourn her
loss.
	In behalf of the sisters of the Relief Society, of which
she was a faithful member, we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family and friends.  She has proved
herself to be a loving wife, a kind mother, and devoted to
the cause of truth.  May we emulate her example.
				J. M. CHRISTENSEN, Prest. R. S.,
				MARIA HANSEN, Secretary.

	DIED, at her home in Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah, May
25, 1888, Sister Mary Ann Orrock, beloved wife of Bro.
W. C. B. Orrock, and daughter of William and Mary
Ogden.  Deceased was born in Hallith Wood, Lancashire,
England, Dec. 26, 1846.  She leaves a husband and seven
children, besides a numerous host of relatives and friends
to mourn her loss.
	She was an exemplary woman, a devoted mother and
loving wife, and a consistent Latter-day Saint, and we, in
behalf of the sisters of the Relief Society, to which she
belonged, extend our sympathy to the bereaved family,
and deeply feel her loss.
				J. M. CHRISTENSEN, Prest. R. S.,
				MARIA HANSEN, Secretary.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 17.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1888.			NO. 4.


CONSOLATION.
I lifted the curtains of the morning, 
And I opened the windows of day, 
Peering thro' dim shadows of dawning,
That darkened the heavenly way;
I longed and I watched, for some token,
To heal a poor heart, that was broken.

I felt that some angel of pity,
Might have paused at the gateway of light.
Ere she entered the beautiful city,
Where there is no sorrow nor night,
And standing where sunlight was streaming, 
On the threshold in vision half-dreaming, 

In her beauty and loveliness glowing,
With the goal of her hopes just in sight,
Her white robes all gracefully flowing,
And dazzled with splendor so bright—
Gaze backward, beholding our grief,
Filled with yearning to give us relief.

Remembering the clouds and the darkness,
That had shrouded our earth-life below,
That mortal probation must know,
Retrospection would surely awaken
Regrets for the loved ones forsaken.

I listened, half-conscious of something,
A presence that beamed on my sight,
And I wondered if angels were noting
The rapturous joy and delight,
That gladdened the face of the woman
as she wafted a sigh for the human.

I pondered in fond expectation,
Of a message from regions above,
And I bowed in intense supplication,
In humility, meekness and love; 
But I heard only sighing and sobbing,
Tho' the great pulse of nature was throbbing.

I knew, by an inward suggestion,
That a presence of angels was near,
And a feeling, no language could question,
Thrilled thro' me and banished all fear,
As I thought of a promise once given,
When we spoke of our parting and heaven.

The mist on the mountain was fading, 
And the vision, so sweet, fled away,
And with it, the soft, sombre shading,
That encircled the earth, cold and grey;
And the sun, in his splendor arising,
The world with fresh light was baptizing.

The poet, now fully awakened,
Soliloquized, "What of the night?
Aye, what had the vision betokened,
That vanished so quickly from sight?"
But the morning broke forth into singing,
And the welkin with music was ringing.

The world was awakened to gladness, 
And the voices of night were no more; 
But the echoes of sighing and sadness,
Had pierced to a far distant shore;
And the Father, with infinite feeling,
Had poured out the balm of His healing.
E. B. W.


[Column 1]

[For the Exponent.]
THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

PART III.

WOMEN IN LITERATURE
	"Such a superiority do the pursuits of litera-
ture possess above every other occupation, that
even he who attains but a mediocrity in them

[Column 2]

merits the pre-eminence above those that excel
the most in the common and vulgar profes-
sions."—HUME.
	The field of literature is delightful, full of
refreshing draughts, beautiful scenes, melodic
sounds.
	There are many delightful paths in life,
where one can wander at one's will and breathe
and live and learn, almost without an effort,
but there is a fair, beautiful, winding path,
tempting to the soul, which leads into a broad
and glorious field, where the multitude fain
would revel, but only the choice few can enter.
The field of literature. In this charming place
all the senses are awakened, and tho' the body
may be in calm repose, the soul will still, in
the keenest sense, enjoy all the pleasures and
delights of life. In sweet meditation the
silver linings peer through the dreary clouds
and reveal the brightness and glory of the
heavens; the quiet, sombre dream blends with
the deepening day, revealing the faintest, fair-
est tints and shades; the sea waves wash on the
sandy beach in grand and eloquent music, the
rivers flow and the brooks ripple in rhythmic
tone, the winds whisper and sigh through the
woods and waves, the birds carol in their happy
flight, and in their blending songs all breathe
the most melodious chorus ever heard on earth;
the lives and thoughts of the flowers are told
through their perfumes in most exquisite lan-
guage, and dreams and thoughts and visions
become most real. Oh, the elysian field! how
we fain would linger there forever, and yet 'tis
with the most cautious, fearing step we even
dare stray along the path and glance only a
moment within. Oh, to be lost in such a
place, where all that annoys and sorrows mankind
is forgotten, and the delicate imagery of life be-
comes a fair reality.
	Life is too real for many to dare venture
into this path, and among the Mormon women
there has, until later days, been too much need
for practical work and labor for them to devote
much time in this field, but genius and talent
will thrust itself forward, in spite of all obsta-
cles, and we claim, among the women of Utah,
some very thoughtful, sensible, beautiful and
bright literary workers.
	It seems so natural to refer to our dear, de-
parted leader, Eliza R. Snow, as the first Utah
woman who published a book. She it is who
has precedence in almost everything pertaining
to woman's advancement among her people.
Fortune favored her in every way for a public
life, and all her surroundings and opportunities
seemed to urge and encourage her into the
path of literature. So much has been written
in the columns of the EXPONENT of this noble
lady's work, that it would be a futile attempt
to strive to add more. Her work is before the
people like an open book, and every page dis-
closes deeds and thoughts, the noblest, the
purest, the grandest one can conceive. Her
history is interwoven with the history of the
Church in all their wanderings, their sojourn-
ings, their adversity, their prosperity. It is
useless to try to pay tribute to such a character,
she is beyond the pale of all that we can say.
As a writer, "Sister Eliza" (for so we love best
to call her), ranks in the highest class. Her
early poems and letters were published in the
Deseret News, and as early as 1856 she pub-
lished her first volume of poems. Her songs
were sung by the Saints in their wanderings on
the plains, and inspired and encouraged them
on their weary way. She wrote the sweetest
and dearest of hymns—"[-]Oh, my Father, Thou

[Column 3]

that dwellest"—and all who sing or hear it
sung, feel indebted to her for the beautiful
doctrine revealed through the precious inspired
lines. The Deseret News used to be the only
medium through which the early writers could
express themselves to the people, and the very
old numbers show some of the prettiest and
choicest verses from the pen of Sarah E. Car-
michael, a young and most gifted girl. She,
some few years later, while residing in Califor-
nia, gathered her poems together and published
them in a small neat volume. Not a verse
therein which did not stamp her a poet, one to
be recognized anywhere. Miss Carmichael
gave every promise of becoming one of the
most gifted poets of the century, but, alas for
fate, a cloud more dreadful than death fell
upon her, and "her thoughts were combinations
of disjointed things," and "the glance of melan-
choly is a fearful gift."
	As Miss Snow and Miss Carmicheal found
space in the News to publish their poetic
thoughts, so did our much honored and loved
sister, Hannah Tapfield King. Mrs. King
herself says: "From a child I had been accus-
tomed to write much, and in my early married
days wrote two books, one for my girls and
one for my boys; I also wrote considerable
poetry all my life." In June, 1853, Mrs.
King left her dear England for the wilds of
America. One almost dreads to think of a
soul full of learning and poetry, reared among
the "classic shades and bowers" of Cambridge
parting forever from all the fond associations
to enter an unknown land. She knew not
what awaited her, perhaps—not even a home,
certainly not the culture and comfort among
which she had been reared, and for which her
noble nature yearned, but conquering all feel-
ings of pride and reluctance, laying such on
the altar of her faith, she bade farewell to Eng-
land, and embarked on the ship Golconda for
her new home; like so many others of our
people, giving up worldly blessings for the hope
and belief that greater blessings would be be-
stowed upon her, and they were, and have been,
and now that she has passed from earth with a
most perfect, unfailing Faith, who knows, who
would dare to estimate the heavenly, eternal
joys that are hers.
	Her lofty soul soon found, even in this re-
mote, uncultivated land, food for the mind,
and it was Mrs. King's delight to give her
thoughts to the people. Her works are mostly,
whether prose or verse, of an historic nature,
and she leans to the sublime and grand more
than the simple and beautiful style. She pub-
lished, "Women of the Scriptures," "Songs of
the Heart," and "An Epic Poem," which was
historical of the Church. Her life was pure
and good and true; she aimed to be a perfect
woman, as her own beautiful words can tell:

		"I fought the battle all my life,
		Of outward foe and inward strife,
		The strife which flesh and spirit feel,
		As keenly as the barbed steel;
		For, oh! my soul has longed to be
		A perfect thing for God to see!"

	The reading public miss and mourn for Mrs.
King, and especially do the readers of the
EXPONENT, for her lines so often illuminated
its columns, and we miss her socially. Her
conversation was full of wisdom and entertain-
ing knowledge; she possessed a superior judg-
ment on literary works, and was not only an
apt and good critic, but a most pleasing and
interesting friend.


[Column 1]

	We have another English woman poet, who
wrote in early days for the News, and whose
style is rather similar—Emily Hill Woodman-
see. Adversity, injustice and hostility always
seem to urge Mrs. Woodman[---] to call her
Muse, that she may express her feelings; and
great events and anniversaries also call forth
her poetic fire. The journey of Mrs. Wood-
mansee to these valleys was enough to kill
within her all desire, all aim to become any-
thing, almost all desire to live, for she journeyed
on foot twelve hundred miles, pushing along
a handcart, which held her bedding and pro-
visions. What will! What indomitable courage
for a young woman to undertake such a
journey, and what sublime faith she must have
had! A verse of Mrs. Woodmansee's own
can better tell her nature as a woman, her style
as a poet:

	"Keep a brave heart, tho' the waves roll high,
		Let thine aim be true as the magnet's steel;
	Look unto God, with a steadfast eye,
		And trust Him always, in woe or weal;
	Man may deceive, but God is true;
		Mortals may pander to love of pelf,
	Life angels' visits, firm friends are few;
		Trust thou in God! and thyself."

	Mrs. Woodmansee writes very little at pres-
ent for the public, but seems more engrossed in
business matters, but her nature sometimes
finds rest in pouring forth her feeling thoughts
in rhyme.
	Times becoming more prosperous, and peo-
ple advancing in every way, there came a de-
mand for more publications, and publishing
houses, and the Juvenile Instructor and Morn-
ing Herald were started. To the columns of
the Instructor Miss Lula Greene sent some
charming productions, and shortly afterwards,
in 1872, it was decided to establish in Utah a
woman's paper, and Miss Lula Greene, the
grand-niece of Brigham Young, was installed
as the Editor of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	This was a new era for the women of Utah.
The field, the beautiful elysian field was opened
unto them all. The EXPONENT has called
forth and urged all who wished to enter the
arena of literature, to pour their thoughts into
its columns, and to be refreshed by the draughts
of inspiration and learning which its pages
reveal.
	The Mormon women know it has been a
great boon and blessing unto them. The sisters
are, through its columns, made acquainted with
all the works of the societies and pleasures of
their reunions, the achievements of women in
all lines, here and elsewhere.
	The EXPONENT has also been a brave de-
fender of the women of Utah, and a most un-
answerable argument against the false accusa-
tions made concerning the serfdom and bond-
age of Mormon women, Miss Greene, now
Mrs. Lula Greene Richards, is one of our
sweetest poets, and though her editorial
work on the EXPONENT ceased in 1877,
she has ever since been a frequent and most
welcome contributor to its columns. Mrs.
Richards, better known as Lula, should cer-
tainly collect her poems and publish them. A
volume of them would grace the most choice
library. Lula's style is beautiful, simple and
pure, yet full of strength and principle. She
writes a great deal for children, both prose and
poetry, and seems in her happiest mood when
writing a song, a fable, an enigma or a story
for their amusement. As every one knows,
this style is most difficult, from its necessary
symplicity, but it is the style most fitting Mrs.
Richards. She aims at symplicity, and follows
it out in her life as well as her writings. It is
scarcely necessary to quote from Lula's poems,
they are so familiar in the homes of the Saints.
Our children sing her songs, work out her
enigmas, recite her poems and repeat her stories.
It is to be hoped that she may live many years,

[Column 2]

and in after time, when her family cares de-
crease, and her time may be given more to the
pleasure of writing, we may claim among us a
star, in that happiest phase of writing—Child-
ren's Literature—as bright as Louisa May
Alcott, which, though expressly for the young,
composed delights alike for all who care to read.
	In 1875, Mrs. Richard's family cares increas-
ing, she found it necessary to have an assistant
editor to the EXPONENT, and among her con-
tributors the present editor, Emmeline B.
Wells, came to her aid as a co-helper. Mrs.
Wells, though devoting much time to the
women's organizations, the grain saving, the
political and missionary work, is an indefatig-
able writer.
	When only eight years old she composed
verses which need not cause her to blush now
in later years, for they breathe the true essence
of poetry.
	Her literary work is confined almost entirely
to the EXPONENT, though a poem or a sketch
occasionally appears in the Contributor or
Tullidge's Magazine, and her verses, sketches
and criticisms are often copied in papers and
periodicals outside of Utah. Mrs. Wells has
had many flattering offers to contribute to
magazines, but has preferred to devote her
time and talent to her own people, only writing
an occasional article in defense of Mormon
women to publications elsewhere.
	Her work compels her to write on all sub-
jects, and in all styles, but her happiest style is
the ideal, the picturesque and the poetical.
When time allows, she grants herself the
pleasure of returning in imagination to her
New England home, and through the sketches
she produces we roam the dear old woods, go
blackberrying or nutting, gather ferns and
lilies from the winding brooks, and taste and
 scent the pleasures of a sadly sweet and pen-
sive childhood. Her poems are of a retrospec-
tive nature, and a memory full of the loveliest,
sweetest, dreamiest, happiest, saddest things
supplies her poetic nature with the material re-
produced in her touching verses. Mrs. Wells
has done a great deal towards bringing out
other writers, whose lack of confidence held
them from publishing worthy articles. She
also has written much for children, and her
songs are sung in the Sunday Schools and
Primaries. Her work in different ways is very
extensive, and all her time now is given to the
public; it is her greatest delight to help others
and aid in the advancement of women.	*
*	*	*	*	*	*	Mrs.
Wells' correspondence would form a very
entertianing and pleasing volume. Her letters
always contain the most interesting views, the
most delightful descriptions and the most
pleasant conversation. She is the recipient of
charming letters from many notable people,
such as the poet Whittier, Monsigneur Capel,
Madame Le Vert, Helen Hunt Jackson, and
many others, both poets and authors known to
the world.
	One of the most frequent and pleasing con-
tributors to the EXPONENT is Augusta Joyce
Crocheron, full of poetry, romance and song.
A strangely sweet writer, but a most perfect
and concise one.
	The first poem from her pen that touched my
feelings was those beautiful lines, "My Heart
and I." It reminded one very much of Mrs.
Browning, as do many other of her poems, but
they do not in the least copy after her; it is
only that same beautiful, mystic tone. Mrs.
Crocheron has had much to contend with, but
she never allows herself to lose the poetic muse,
and her prose writings are full of poetry. We
have written mostly of poetical work, but
Mrs. Crocheron has been one among the Utah
women to venture in another path. After
publishing her poems in the pretty volume
known as "The Wild Flowers of Deseret,"
and her biographies, called "Representative

[Column 3]

Women of Deseret," she turned her attention
to romance, and has three times claimed the
prize and medal offered by the Contributor
company for the best Christmas story. We
would fain say more of this gifted woman, but
space will not allow, for as we write so many
names appear before us worthy of mention
under this heading. Among the early volumes
of poetry published was one by Emily B.
Spencer, called, "Prose and Poetry," and one
since, entitled, "The Rose of Deseret," and this
lady has also contributed choice pieces to the
EXPONENT. Her style is similar to that of
Mrs. Woodmansee.
	A beautiful volume lies before me, its title,
"Autobiography and Poems by Hannah Corn-
aby."
	I never appreciated the work until a summer
some five years since, when in Spanish Fork,
this lady's home. She was beautiful in her
little quiet home, reminding one of a perfect
Saint, so quiet, so patient and so sweetly sad.
She led me through the oldest, oddest garden,
with a wicket gate and winding paths, and tall
lilacs, and hollyhocks, and roses, and weeds,
and herbs, and fruit trees, and currant bushes;
one might know the possessor of such a garden
was a poet; and her tone and voice and con-
versation only convinced me the more that she
was not only a poet but a saintly woman. Her
Autobiography is very poetical, and yet con-
tains such testimony and truth as to convince
one of the Gospel she espoused. There have
been some very interesting letters and remis-
cences contributed to the EXPONENT from the
pen of Helen Mar Whitney, and Mrs. Whitney
has also published books, one called
"Plural Marriage as Taught by Joseph the
Prophet," the other, "Why We Practice Plural
Marriage." Her writings are eagerly read,
and often call forth questions and discussions
from abroad, they contain such strong testi-
mony and doctrinal truth. Mrs. Mary J.
Tanner has published a neat volume of poems,
entitled, "Fugitive Poems," and is one of the
most interesting correspondents to the EX-
PONENT. Her "Leaves From my Journal,"
continued through several numbers, give
pleasing and cheering descriptions of different
sights in the Eastern States.
	Among the younger and most delightful
writers, we must certainly mention Lu Dalton,
whose inspiring and beautiful verses grace the
pages of the EXPONENT and Contributor.
Her poetry is of the highest rank, and also of
the most beautiful style. In the last number,
July 1, is contained a sublime poem from this
lady's pen, entitled, "Arise! Shine! For Thy
Light is Come." Of the lady herself I know
little, not even her name, but through her
correspondence and poems, I feel to know her
soul. The EXPONENT, I am sure, is proud of
such a contributor.
	Susie—Homespun—we had almost forgotton
you; no, not forgotten, but overlooked you,
because you have been so long silent. Do your
cares and missionary work keep you from tell-
ing us your experience in your gay, homely
way?
	Susie Young Gates, the daughter of Prest.
Brigham Young, is a literary light among our
young women. Her stories are full of life and
wit and pathos; her poetry is sweet and tender,
and her sketches are as amusing and interesting
as her bright conversation, which is all that
can be said. She should write more often, and
cultivate the talent so liberally bestowed upon
her. Oh, time! Oh, space! if only I could
command and control you for awhile! Here
I have written all the day, and such a host of
names are yet unmentioned.
	Ruby Lamont—Mrs. Maria Miller Johnson
—whose Christmas poem, published last winter,
was an Idyl of the sweetest kind—her style is
lofty, and approaches that of Mrs. Heman's
Miss Sarah E. Russell, a poet whose verses


have been publshed for years in the woman's 
repository, the EXPONENT, over the signature
of Hope.  Her sister also possesses in a large 
degree the poetic fire—Mrs. Belle Russell
Johnson.  Her poems published in the EX-
PONENT are signed, "Millicent."  She, like her
sister, is too modest to use her own name.  And
let me not forget to mention one whose verses
are always comforting and inspirational—Mrs.
Esther A. Bennion—whom, like some of the
others, I have never seen, but know and appre-
ciate their poetic taste.  I have not mentioned all
whose names are familiar to me, thro' bring a
reader and worker in the editorial rooms of
Mrs. Wells' office, but I should like to tell of
many others, and one more name I will speak
of here—Lillie Freeze—whose writings are
tender and full of fine feeling, revealing a
pathos that touches sensitively the inner soul
of woman.
	Of others who are entering the beautiful
field, pardon me, that I do not say more, but
write on, and your own works will tell your
story.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EIGHTY EIGHT.

Our fathers to their graves have gone,
Their strife is past—their triumph won;
But sterner trials wait the race
Which rises in their honored place—
A moral warfare with the crime
And folly of an evil time.

So let it be. In God's own might
We gird us for the coming fight,
And strong in Him whose cause is ours
In conflict with unholy powers,
We grasp the weapons He has given,—
The Light, and Truth, and Love of Heaven!

		JOHN G. WHITTIER.


THE FAITHFUL WORD.

BY ALICE C. JENNINGS.

"No word from God shall be void of power."—LUKE
37 (R. V.)

	"No word from the Lord shall be void!"
		Can it be that each promise is sealed
	With impression that never destroyed,
	Through the ages still stands unalloyed
		As a law that is never repealed?

	Then I surely may claim as my own
		Each message of power and of peace;
	May take it direct from the throne,
	As though to me uttered alone,
		Nor fear that its comfort shall cease.

	My God shall supply all your need
		Is the far-reaching promise so true
	That the pain and the sorrow decreed
	And the failures and sins that impede
		Through His help may be conquered anew?

	"I have blotted thy sins as a cloud!"
		Oh, tell me this promise once more!
	I rise but to fall, and am bowed.
	In repentance, to find I have vowed
		But a new-broken pledge to deplore.

	I am weak. Like the rocks by the sea,
		By its doubtings my spirit is torn,
	"My grace is sufficient for thee,
	Trust now, and at last thou shalt see
		The meaning of all thou hast borne."

	I am blind, O omnipotent Friend,
		And I know not the way I should go,
	"I will guide thee—will keep to the end—
	From the perils around will defend,
		And each step of the pathway will show."

	"Whosoever on Me doth believe"—
		O final completion of joy!—
	The conquest of death shall achieve.
	The fulness of life shall receive
		And pass to unfettered employ.


Smile on me, thou Spirit Divine,
	And open my vision to see
That riches, forgiveness, and strength,
And guidance, and conquest at length
	Are mine by unaltered decree.—Ex.

Auburndale, June, 1888.


OUR PRESENT SITUATION.

	The present time is one of vast importance
to the youth of Zion. The old, and those who
have borne the burden and hardship of intro-
ducing the Gospel to this generation, are pass-
ing away, and the continuation of the work,
they have begun will fall upon the shoulders
of their "sons and daughters;" and the questions
of to-day are, "Are they prepared for the great
responsibilities that will rest upon them?" "Do
they realize the magnitude of the undertak-
ing?" "Have they embraced the opportunities
for learning that have been given them from
time to time, and sought to obtain a knowledge
for themselves." The Lord says He will have
a pure people, a people that are free from the
evils of the world, that are willing to bear the
scoffs and jeers of the ungodly, all for His sake,
who died to redeem and bring us back into the
presence of our Father.
	How will we be able to stand unshaken, un-
less we know for ourselves, unless we live
prayerful and humble, pure, virtuous lives, be
chaste, honest and long suffering, seeking the
Lord with mighty faith? If we do not know
for ourselves that the Lord has truly spoken in
this our day, seek diligently with a contrite
heart, or we cannot stand the trials that are
before us in the near future. The "Lord has
seen fit to withdraw from the midst of His peo-
ple" their leaders and mighty men, and, as it
were, they are left to themselves for a season,
to try their integrity to see if they will still
cling fast to the iron rod.
	But it will be no trifling thing to be a Saint in
very deed in the future. The adversary
has great power over the people, insomuch that
many are falling by the way, and cannot stand,
even some that have had great manifestations
of the power of God. Then, how important it
is that we should be on the watchtower, that
we may be prepared for anything that may
come, that we may not be taken by sur-
prise, that our lamps may be full of oil, that
when the Bridegroom comes we will be ready
to receive Him.
	Our associations are organized for the pur-
pose of learning the principles of the Gospel,
and the sciences of life and health, and, in
fact, everything that tends to elevate, instruct
and ennoble the sons and daughters of Zion,
and prepare us for the great events and re-
sponsibilities that will rest upon the young in
the near future.
	Then, my dear sisters; let us strive to be one,
for the Lord says unless we are one we are not
His. Let us try to build each other up; put
away all evil from our hearts, and seek to do
good. Let us pray for our young sisters of
the presidency, that the Lord will inspire their
hearts, that wisdom and understanding may be
given them, and that the power of speech and
language may be theirs, so that they may be
able to impart the instruction necessary for
the advancement of our society.
	Praying for the blessings of God to rest
upon all who try to build up Zion, I remain,
	Your sister,
		S. A. FULLMER.
Y. L. Manuscript Paper,
	Orangevile, Emery County.


CORRESPONDENCE.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I came from Manti fully intending to make


an extra exertion in regard to writing for the
EXPONENT, but I find the truth of the adage
"Man proposes, but God disposes." I had
only been at home one day, and that was Society
conference, when a poor boy came to me, sick.
To make it intelligible, I must go back and
tell who he was or is. A small company of
nine members, came from Palestine last fall;
converts who had been baptized by our son.
They are all Germans or Russian Germans,
and very fine people. The rest got work, and 
left us but this young man, eighteen years old,
who remained most of the time with us, and,
owing to his natural abilities and kind disposi-
tion, we became much attached to him. He
called us "pa and ma." He went away to work
this spring, and came back sick, as we supposed,
with rheumatism and fever, but the doctor said
it was scrofula, and he would die of blood
poison. We have stood over him night and
day, and I hope never to witness such a thing
again.
	My object in giving this to the public is not
to tell about the poor boy's sufferings, but to
draw a moral, if I can properly express my
feelings, and tell my sisters how little we know
of the world, its sins and sufferings—that the
sins of the fathers shall be visited on the child-
ren is a terrible curse. Nevertheless the fiat
has gone forth, and it is unchangeable.
	One of the Palestine brethren tells us that
such things are common in that country, and
that the Arabs rot and die in, if possible, a
more terrible way. The crime for which
Sodom was destroyed is rotting them down
when mere boys.
	People will dare to criticise the Bible, and
say it must be a terrible God who would order
whole nations to be slain, sparing neither
women nor children. But God knew their
natures, and knew that wherever the seed came
in contact with Israel it would pollute them.
God knows many things, which we ignorant,
short-sighted mortals cannot understand, nor
do not dream of. What do those living in
pure homes, with healthy children around
them, know of rottenness and corruption? It
does not come under their observation; their
imagination cannot embrace it. We hear of
the wickedness of the world, but from the pure
atmosphere of our home circles we do not
trouble ourselves about the sins we do not have
to answer for. Our husbands are virtuous,
and our children are pure, and we grieve that
God should have laid a commandment on His
people to keep them so.
	He says, "If I will that I shall raise up a
pure seed unto myself, I will command my
people." Individuals are rotting, nations are
rotting, and disease and death are strewn
broadcast and transmitted to posterity.
	If we could visit the hospitals, we would see
sights to make the strongest shudder, for our
own fair land is not free from this terrible curse,
nor the crime that breeds it. And yet the
country is indignant that men should marry
and raise pure children, and throw the protec-
tion of God's law about the family circle.
Men must be persecuted and thrown into prison
for carrying out the laws of God, and protect-
ing their wives and children, while bagnios
are licensed for the "protection of respectable
people."
		M. J. TANNER.


Miss May W. Whitney takes the place held
by Maria Mitchell as professor of astronomy
at Vassar College.
	Our laws about dower, about divorce, about
defense against husbandly squandering of
estates, about the holding of property, will
never be what they ought to be until there are
a great number of women with severest legal
acumen, able to shape statutes and confront
courts on these questions.—Dr. Talmage.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	 Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the East Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JULY 15, 1888.


[Column 1]

OLD FOLKS' EXCURSION.

	The regular annual excursion of the OLD FOLKS
of this city and adjacent towns and settlements,
came off on Thursday, July 12, under the manage-
ment of the "Old Folks' Committee," that has
made such a complete success of these excursions,
year after year, and has given the aged so much
real enjoyment in tho declining years of their
lives. The destination this time was Lehi, and
right here we cannot forbear repeating the expres-
sion made by Elder George Goddard on the last
memorable occasion, both on account of its origin-
ality, and also that our readers may know to whom
the idea was first suggested, that has since de-
veloped so much benevolence and reverence for
those whose days are sad and sober, and who are
watching the sunset of life, more than the morn-
ing of its rising. Bro. Goddard remarked, in ad-
dressing the audience at Lehi: "When I pass be-
hind the veil, my first work shall be to inquire for
the good angel who first whispered to my colleague,
C. R. Savage, the idea of these excursions."
	Bishop Cutler, of Lehi, and a large number of
brethren and sisters, had made every preparation
possible beforehand, that the old folks might have
an enjoyable time. The grove where they met is
only about 200 yards from the U. C. depot. The
ground was cleared and the shade made complete;
one thousand feet of table room was constructed
and provided with seats, also extra seats; a fine
shower in the morning had laid the dust, so that
all was as comfortable as possible. The com-
mittee on decorations had ornamented the tables
with flowers, and flags, banners, mottoes, etc.,
were profuse. The Lehi brass and silver bands
were on hand, playing their sweetest strains.
	Besides the old people, the committee and visi-
tors, His Excellency, Gov. West, accompanied
the party. First on the programme after the arrival
was the serving of the picnic, the bands playing
during the time.
	At one p.m. the exercises commenced by the
singing of the Old Folks' Choir, "Ere the Sun
goes down." Prayer by Elder George Goddard.
Music by the band. Address of welcome, Bishop
T. R. Cutler, who thanked the committee for
bringing the party to Lehi, and expressed himself
pleased at the Governor's presence. Music on
bagpipes, W. C. Dunbar, and by the bands, "Hail
Columbia. Bro. Savage introduced Gov. West,
whose speech we give as reported:
	"This, to me, is a very novel experience, but a
very agreeable one. I have often met with gather-
ings of young people, but never before with
gatherings of the old. When first I came to Utah
I heard of this yearly movement, and was struck
with its beauty and benevolence, but had no idea
of its extent. This is the first time I have met
with you—I hope it will not be the last, I think

[Column 2]

there is not in the world such a beautiful and lov-
ing custom. I know not to whom we are first in-
debted for its beginning, but I understand it is to
a gentleman here present. I believe I can say for
him, that if he has never done another good act
in his life, this act should entitle him to a place in
heaven. All titles of honor here to-day are titles
of age only. The commandment is, "Honor thy
father and thy mother." To-day you are manifest-
ing love, honor and obedience for the old. What
have these gone through the last forty years? All
remember that forty years ago this spot was a
desert. Through the labors of such as these, we
have to-day our beautiful and comfortable sur-
roundings. The young who are here to-day are
also beautiful because of the truth, 'It is more
blessed to give than to receive.' I rejoice to see
you all so happy and contented. I hope you will
continue to be blessed and prosperous, and that
as long as the sun shines and the breezes blow,
this happy and appropriate custom may con-
tinue."
	Three cheers for the Governor was heartily re-
sponded to. Bro. Dunbar sang one of the favor-
ite songs, "My Old Wife and I," and the Lehi
choir, also Bros. Goddard and Willis, furnished
vocal music.
	Father Bergen, 96 years old, spoke a few words.
Mrs. Julia Silverwood and the Old Folks' Choir
sang, "Dear Heart We're Growing Old."
	Prest. A. O. Smoot, of Utah Stake, himself a
veteran, as well as a pioneer and colonizer in the
Territory, addressed the assemblage. Alluded in
his remarks to the presence of the Executive, and
said, "It is good for governors and rulers to be
acquainted with their people, and see them in their
homes and home-lives."
	Bro. Savage, with some witty and suggestive
sayings, presented a gold medal, given by Swaner
& Bro., of Salt Lake City, to Bro. Samuel Mul-
liner, who tanned the first leather in the valley
from which has descended the old-time phrase
used so commonly in the past, and applied to so
many things, and even to the young ladies—"Valley
Tan." "Auld Lang Syne" was sung by the choir,
and then Bro. Goddard spoke to the people, tell-
ing them it was the 13th anniversary, and that
there were 600 people on the grounds over 70
years of age. Three cheers for Bro. Savage were
given, and he responded, saying: "We have a gold
medal here for the man who turned the first sod in
Utah—M. C. Carter. He is now in the Peniten-
tiary, but we will send him the medal. You can
see the plow in the museum." Bro. Carter, let us
explain, is serving a term of imprisonment for
conscience' sake. Geo. Openshaw, over 70, gave
a recitation in Lancashire dialect.
	Bro. H. W. Naisbitt spoke a short time, and
alluded to what faith had accomplished in connec-
tion with works in turning "these once deserts
into fruitful fields." Bro. Goddard called for the
owner of the grounds, and was told he was
present; his name is Robert Gilchrist. He blessed
him and said "the place should be sacred from
now on." Old Folks' Choir sang, "Leaf by Leaf
the Roses Fall." One hundred prizes were then
distributed according to the best judgment of the
committee. Prizes were then awarded to each of
the four Utah pioneers who were present, viz.:
Millen Atwood, E. D. Barnham, Jacob Weiler
and Royal Barney. A variety of gifts were dis-
tributed to old people in the congregation. There
were a number of the members of the Mormon
Battalion present.
	It is estimsted that there were 3,000 people on
the grounds. The affair was a most enjoyable one
throughout, and will be long remembered by the
good people of Lehi, as well as the old folks who
participated in the day's enjoyment.
	Thanks to the Old Folks' Committee, and to all
who contribute from time to time to give the aged
honor, reverence and comfort, and once a year to
accord them a season of recreation and the oppor-

[Column 3]

tunity of seeing each other and greeting brothers,
sisters and friends.


ANNIVERSARY MEETING.

	On Thursday, July 19th, there will be an Anni-
versary Meeting in Ogden, at the Tabernacle, to
commemorate the last visit of Prest. Brigham
Young to that city, and also to celebrate the first
appointment of a President to preside over the
sisters' organizations in a Stake capacity. Prest.
Young, at the meeting in the Ogden Tabernacle,
July 19, 1877, appointed Mrs. Jane S. Richards
President over the Relief Society and Young
Ladies' Associations in all Weber Stake, and said
quarterly reports were to be given of the condi-
tion of each Society, and gave much valuable in-
struction at that time. This was the example
Sister E. R. Snow Smith followed out in organiz-
ing the sisters' Associations in the several Stakes
of Zion, and which has been made so uniform
since throughout the Church. Prest. Brigham
Young, Elder John Taylor, Elder Franklin D.
Richards, and other brethren gave excellent in-
struction on that great occasion.
	Prest. Young in his remarks said, concerning
the mothers: "Mothers are the moving instru-
ments in the hands of Providence to guide the
destinies of nations," and he exhorted mothers to
teach their children not to make war, but to teach
them peace. He asked the question, "Who gives
the key to the nations of the earth? It is the
mothers, and not the fathers!" Prest. Young on
that occasion expressed himself pleased with the
way in which the sisters had responded to his
counsel in regard to the storing of grain.
	His instructions were most fatherly, and it
seemed as though every one present felt the influ-
ence thereof. It was the last time he spoke to the
Relief Society and Retrenchment Associations,
and it seems most proper to commemorate the
event.
	It was the intention of Mrs. Richards, last sum-
mer, whom he then appointed, to have held an
anniversary at the end of the ten years, but the
severe illness of Prest. John Taylor last year,
caused her to postpone it till this year. It is now
eleven years since the time, and it is expected
that it will be a general rejoicing. There have
been elaborate preparations made for a dinner
party by the sisters in Weber County, and 
as they have been so very successful in times past
in matters of this kind, there is no doubt that all
things will be done in order, and the utmost har-
mony. The dinner will be served in the Third
Ward Meeting House, from 12 to 2. Services
commence at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
	There are a large number of people from Salt
Lake City going to attend the meetings. Several
of the Apostles are expected to be present.


DEAF MUTE INSTITUTE.

	There may be among the readers of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT some mothers who have,
unfortunately, deaf mute children growing up
without any knowledge, and who may never have
heard of the new Territorial Institution for the
education of deaf mutes, established by the
Legislature; it will not, therefore, be amiss to say
something of the purposes and aims of this institu-
tion.
	It consists of two departments, a school and a
home. At the school, the pupils are taught to
read and write at first, and then, after they are
sufficiently advanced, they are taught such useful
branches of knowledge as are commonly taught
to children in the district schools, composition,
arithmetic, grammar, geography, history, etc. A
course of instruction in speech and lib-reading
will also be given by an experienced teacher in all
cases where the pupils show an aptitude for it.


In the home, the pupils are cared for as well as
they would be by their own mothers. Such a 
home is necessary on eccount of the distance
from which the pupils come, and where they must
have a common shelter. The girls will be taught
to make themselves useful in the house, so that
they may be able to help their mothers at home.
They learn hand and machine sewing, plain cook-
ing, baking, making of cakes and pies, ironing
and other housekeeping duties, all taking turns
every week. Some of the girls thus taught have
become good cooks, to the delight of fathers and
brothers at home. The Institute employs a regu-
lar cook to do all the work, and instruction in
household duties is given by the Matron out of
school hours, so that neither inteferes with the
other. The young lady teacher, who teaches
articulation and lip-reading, will reside at the
Institute, and have general supervision of the
girls out of school hours.
	Board and Tuition will be charged at the rate of
$5 per week, to those who are able to pay, and to
others who reside outside of the Territory, but in
case of inability to pay that amount, the applicants
will be admitted free of charge, as the Legislature
has provided liberally for their free education.
This applies only to residents of the Territory,
and none such need be debarred from coming to
school.
	The requisites for admission are, that the appli-
cants should possess a sound mind in a sound
body. The age of admission begins at six years,
but is not limited upward at present. A three
years' course of instruction is provided for those
who cannot spend more than that number of years
at school. Even one year of training has done
wonders, and much good can be done under such
influences as surround the Institute.
	Books and clothing only must be paid for by the
pupils. Board, lodging and tuition are free. Two
plain, but strong changes of clothing are all that
is necessary.
	The next term begins on the 3rd of Sept., 1888,
and continues—with a two weeks' vacation between
Christmas and New Year—until the middle of
June, after which the pupils go home for a three
months' vacation.
	It is to be hoped that no deaf mute of suitable
age, out of the two hundred or more now in the
Territory, will neglect the opportunity of an edu-
cation thus afforded them. The Institute is at
present located at Captain Hooper's beautiful
mansion in Salt Lake City.
	All communications should be addressed to Dr.
J. R. Park, President of University of Deseret.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THB Y. L. M. I. A. of the 8th Ward in this city,
held an interesting meeting in the Ward Assembly
Rooms, Tuesday evening, July 10 Mrs. Mary P.
Young, Prest of the Association, and Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze presiding. The hall was handsomely
fitted up for the occasion, and roses and bouquets
of lovely flowers were scattered here and there,
giving a soft, sweet tone to the effect of the decor-
ating, at the same time, suggesting the refinement
and culture of those who had the management of
the affair. There were quite a number of visitors
present by invitation. The singing and music
was excellent, the selection of the songs also
testifying of the good taste of the young ladies.
The exercises of the meeting were of a high order
and gave good promise of the intellectual and
spiritual improvement and growth of the Associa-
tion. During the evening one of the young sis-
ters, a visitor arose and sung inspirationally "A song
of Zion," such as we have never heard before
since the death of our dear mother Whitney. Her
voice was clear and musical and the highest notes
were full of melody. It was in answer to prayer,
and was the out-pouring of the Holy Spirit in such
rich draughts that all present felt the effect there-

[Column 2]

of. After the meeting was over ice cream and
cake were served, and all felt they had enjoyed a
season of refreshing from on high. The culti-
vation of spiritual gifts lifts the soul into the higher
atmosphere of thought and feeling and helps one
to attain to the perfection which is the aim of
every true Latter-day Saint.
	A NEW stimulus is likely to be given to sericul-
ture in the Territory of Utah, and as there are
many throughout the valleys of this fruitful region
who have made great efforts in this direction, we
feel sure they will be glad to learn that there is
likely to be renewed exertions made by those who
will aim to make success of the undertaking.
Senator Chandler has introduced a bill into the
Congress of the United States, asking for an ap-
propriation for $150,000 to establish silk stations
for the encouragement of this important branch
of industry in the United States. Father Graves,
of Provo, who has for years been laboring untir-
ingly in this enterprise, has written to the Agricul-
tural department in Washington, and laid before
them some details of what has been done, and
what can be done in Utah in this direction. Now
he is anxious to obtain further statistical informa-
tion, that he may more perfectly present the sub-
ject to Congress, and obtain such help as is needed
for Utah. Bro Graves wishes to obtain positive
information of the number of mulberry trees in
Utah, and this can be done more readily by the
sisters reporting to the Relief Society in each
ward and Stake. He also wishes to ascertain the
number of persons that have been in the past, or
who are now engaged practically in seri-culture in
any of its various departments. All this can be
done systematically through the Relief Society,
because of its perfect organization throughout
the Territory. Bro. Graves assures us that the
Governor of the Territory is backing him in this
project, and also the Chamber of Commerce, but
as the Relief Society has been active in the work
of seri-culture, it will be a most interesting fact to
know what has really been done by the sisters
in this home industry. It is to be hoped that the
Relief Society everywhere in Utah will respond
as soon as convenient to this request. Presidents
of all the branches of the Relief Society in Utah
are requested to lay this matter before the sisters
in their first meeting after receiving this notice,
and urge upon the secretaries the importance of
collecting these statistics. Please make your re-
port from each branch to the president or secre-
tary of the Relief Society of the Stake in which
you are located, and after these reports are ex-
amined by the Stake President and her board, she
is hereby notified to forward them to this office,
addressed to Mrs. E. B. Wells, Salt Lake City,
(Corresponding Secretary of the Central Board of
the Relief Society). The Cor. Sec. will then pre-
pare a suitable and full report for Bro. Graves
to send to the Agricultural Department at Wash-
ington, and also as a record of woman's work in
Utah, which should be published in the EXPON-
ENT, in connection with other matters.


PIONEER DAY.

     If there is one day in the year that appeals to
the patriotism of the citizens of Utah more
strongly than another, next to Independence Day,
it is the day when the first company of Pioneers
arrived in this valley, on the 24th of July, 1847.
Though in poverty, yet with an indomitable will
and strong faith in God, they faced crude nature
in all its forbidding aspects, and laid the founda-
tion of one of the grandest States on the Ameri-
can continent, which Utah, the “Queen of the
West,” is sure to become in the near future.
     It is therefore but a fitting tribute to the memory
of the Pioneers who have died and also a tribute
of honor to those now living, that the following


programme of exercises be carried out next Tues-
day in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City.
	In addition to the Pioneers' entrance to Utah,
it is also desirable to perpetuate the memory of
the Pioneer Sunday Schools in 1849,
in the Fourteenth Ward of this city, by
Richard Ballantyne, and its wonderful growth to
the present time:—Ex.
PROGRAMME.
	Music, Sixth Ward Silver Band; Song, "Our
Mountain Home so Dear," Sunday School Chil-
dren; Prayer by Assistant General Superintend-
ent George Goddard; Song, Tabernacle Choir;
Opening Address,by President Wilford Woodruff;
Organ Solo,Professor Jos.J.Daynes;Five minutes'
Address, Brother Richard Ballantyne; Song, on
page 24, "Beautiful Zion," Sunday School Children;
Sentiments by General Superintendent George Q.
Cannon; The Soldiers' Chorus, McIntyre's Glee
Class; Speech by one of the Pioneers; "Hail
Columbus," Brass Band; Remarks about the
Plow that turned the first sod in Utah; Solo, Mrs.
Agnes Thomas; Xylophone Solo, "Andante and
Polka," A. Beesley; Song, Tabernacle Choir;
Sentiments; Song, "Utah the Queen of the West,"
Sunday School Children; Benediction.
	George Goddard, C. F. Wilcox, John C. Cutler,
Thos. C. Griggs, W. Willes, Thos. E. Taylor and
J. W. Summerhays, general committee.
	Thos. McIntyre, E. Beesley and Jos. J. Daynes
committee on Music.
	Lorenzo D. Young, C. R. Savage and Francis
Cope, committee on Pioneers.
	James Dwyer, W. C. Morris, Priscilla Jennings,
Matilda Barratt and Priscilla Staines, committee
on decorations.
	An invitation is extended to those outside of
Salt Lake City to be present on the occasion.
	The exercises at the Tabernacle will commence
promptly at 10 a.m. The south and west gates of
the Temple Block will be open at 8 o'clock.


CORRESPONDENCE.

		LEES CREEK, Alberta, JUNE 19, 1888.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER:—As we have a temporary Relief
Society organized, and our honored Sister and
President, Zina D. H. Young, having arrived here
and met with us, we thought, perhaps, the minutes
of our first meeting after her arrival would not be
amiss.
	May 24th the sisters of Lees Creek met at the
residence of President C. O. Card, Prest. Mary
L. Woolf presiding. Singing, “O, my father,’
etc. Prayer by G. L. Farrell. Singing, “Do what
is right.” Minutes of previous meeting read and
accepted.
	Prest. Mary Woolf made a few opening remarks;
rejoiced that our dear sister had the privilege of
coming to this land, and could meet with us; anti-
cipated a good time. Prayed that the Spirit of
the Lord would be with us, that all might be dicta-
ted by the same
	Coun. Annie Layne felt weak in speaking, but
rejoiced in being here among so good a people;
felt very thankful that our honored sister could be
with us; felt willing to do her part in rolling on
this work.
	Sister Sarah Daines was pleased to meet with
our brethren and sisters on this occasion; said we
were blest in having Sister Young with us; desired
to do good and assist in the work before us.
	Sister Z. Y. Card rejoiced to meet with us, and
her dear mother; could not express the joy she
felt in having her mother with her at this time.
Compared our meeting with others she had at-
tended, all being present that had their names en-
rolled. Spoke of the relief given to the poor,
although administered by the sisters it came from
the head of the family. Said our sisters at home
were deprived of the care and support of their


husbands, and we should all remember them in
our prayers. "He is the Comforter; we should
all put our trust in Him." Said our example and
and influence here was for good, of which those
that were not of us would testify. Desired the
Spirit of the Lord to be with us at all times.
	Sister Zine D. H. Young said this meeting
brought to mind many bygone days. Felt that
the Spirit of the Lord was with us, and with His
Saints wherever they were located. Referred to
remarks made by the Prophet Joseph to the sisters
—"You have no conception of the greatness of
the work you are laying the foundation of." Said
every sister was paid for coming to meeting;
mothers were strengthened to perform their labors
and better prepared to instruct their children.
"Some of our sisters are not taking the right
course." Felt we enjoyed a good spirit in our
labors: nothing gave us more joy than to see our
young people taking hold of the principles of the
Gospel. Assured us that this colony was remem-
bered and prayed for in the Temple. Prayed that
the choicest blessings of the Lord might ever at-
tend us.
	Bro. Cheeney said he had had many reflections
while listening; was pleased to see all attending
meeting; if any needed to be encouraged or ex-
cused it was the mothers; was pleased to see the
willingness of the sisters to perform all duties.
"When people apostatize they first neglect small
duties; many have stumbled; it is necessary that
we are shield edfrom this by performing our duties
in this Church. May God bless our labors and
increase the Spirit of the Lord upon us."
	Bro. R. Smith had embraced the Gospel and knew
of its truth, and hoped to live faithful to the end.
"There is a great work before us; we need to
watch and pray. Two of our sisters are in prison,
and the way they are treated is not calculated to
make me feel good." Many of our brethren felt 
depressed, and longed for the time when our
brethren could speak to them; they could not
comfort each other concerning their religion, nor
speak of the principles of the Gospel, which were
so dear to them; the singing of the sisters had
been much appreciated by them. Prophecy had
and would be fulfilled. Prayed God to help us to
be faithful and worthy of the many blessings we
receive.
	Bro. Daines felt grateful for this privilege; said
that a good portion of the Spirit of the Lord was
with us. Could testify of the benefit of the Relief
Society; had attended many good meetings here.
	"We all have our trials, but they will be for our
good; we cannot be perfected without them." All
felt to appreciate the blessing of having Sister 
Young with us; hoped that we would continue to
be united, that we might be prepared for all that
may come.
	Bro. Farrell said he was glad to be with us and
enjoy the good spirit in our midst; what had been
said was true. Spoke of the mustard seed being
scattered; we had come here because the Lord
wanted us here; we had been blest while here;
those of the world admired our industry and im-
provements; it would help to preach the Gospel; 
we should be united in all things. Said, "If we
do right the Lord will bless us, and we will con-
tinue to enjoy a peaceful spirit. The world can-
not do anything against, but for the kingdom of
God; if we are diligent the Lord will enable us to
do a good work in this land." Asked the Lord to
bless Sister Young and all the sisters.
	Prest. Card said it always afforded him pleasure
to meet with us; had listened with pleasure to the
remarks made. "Unless we continue to labor we
may not always enjoy the blessings of God. We
must seek for wisdom." Was pleased that we
could have Sister Young with us; she was now
President of all the Relief Society. "We can-
not court too much the Spirit of the Lord; that we
may enjoy peace and happiness we must be wise in
all things. The Lamanites are not all true; our

[Column 2]

neighbors judge us by our outward appearance."
Asked the peace and blessings of the Lord upon
us.
	Sister Mary Woolf had been edified; knew the
Prophet Jospeh had been inspired to organize the
Relief Society; was always strengthened for her
duties in attending meeting. "We need this
strength to rear our children in the ways of the
 Lord; had been trained to do right, and had tried
to do so.
	Singing, "Who are these arrayed in white?"
etc.
	An invitation was then extended to all the
brethren to attend a picnic prepared in honor of
our President, Sister Young, at 6 o'clock, at
which time twenty-eight of our brethren and sis-
ters sat down to tables well filled with some of the
good things of Canada. As it was also the
queen's birthday, and we forming part of her do-
main, we thought we could not celebrate it in a
better way.
		SARAH H. DAINES. Ass't Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. RERORTS.

	WASATCH STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of Wasatch Stake convened in the
Stake House, Heber City, May 14th, 1888.
On the stand were Prest. Emma Brown and
Counselors, Sister E. S. Taylor and Miss Mary
E. Cook, of Salt Lake City, and several of
the brethren.
	Services began by the choir singing, "God
moves in a mysterious way." Prayer was
offered by Bro. J. R. Murdock, Singing.
Minutes of former conference, also statistical
and financial reports read and adopted.
	Prest. Brown, in her opening remarks,
wished the various presidents to give short
and concise reports, as she wished the visiting
sisters to occupy the greater portion of the
time.
	All the branches, eight in number, were
represented as in a prosperous condition. All
had contributed for the furnishing of the
Stake House the portion assigned them; had
tried to look after and minister to the com-
forts of the poor under their charge, and dis-
charge faithfully all the duties and require-
ments placed upon them.
	After the reports, Sisters Taylor and Cook
occupied most of the remaining time. Ex-
pressed pleasure at meeting with us in this
capacity, and also at the good reports. Spoke
strongly on the rearing of our children; also
in keeping them under our own influence. They
touched upon most of the requirements of the
mothers in Israel. Their remarks were listened
to most attentively by a large audience, and
all felt amply repaid for attending confer-
ence, by the wise and motherly counsel of the
sisters.
		JOSEPHINE C. JONES, Stake Sec.


[Column 1]

﻿PRIMARY REPORTS.

	ST. DAVID PRIMARY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing the interest you take in the youth
of Zion, we thought you would like to know
how we get along in this far off place.
	The health of the people is good, grain and
gardens look well. We are greatly blessed,
notwithstanding our isolated condition.
	Our Primary is flourishing; we hold our
meetings regularly every week. We had an
enjoyable time on the 2nd of May; held a con-
cert; over forty-five children took part. It was
opened by singing, "Nice Young Mormons,"
which was well rendered by the children, after

[Column 2]

which dialogues, music; recitations and songs
were well rendered by the children. Closing
song, "Love at Home."
	It was a lovely sight to see their happy faces
and listen to their sweet voices. All went
home feeling they had been well paid in com-
ing. By request, the concert was repeated on
the 10th inst.
		M. GOODMAN, Prest.
		ANNIE MCRAE, Sec.

P. A. ANNIVERSARY.
	The Primary Association of Big Cottonwood
held their annual meeting on the 14th of June,
1888. A very enjoyable time was had. We
had present with us from the city, Sisters E. C.
Clawson, L. A. Wells and M. H. James, each of
whom expressed themselves highly pleased with
the progress of the children. The report for
the year showed the society to be in a flourish-
ing condition.
	The programme consisted of songs, solos,
essays, select readings and recitations. We
have a paper called the "Primary Trustworthy,"
to which the children write. There was held,
at the same time, a Primary Fair. The work
in it was very creditable, consisting of aprons,
quilts, lace collars, embroidery, bread, butter,
yeast, cake, and from the boys were tables,
ladders, hay rakes, cupboards, cabbage plants,
turnips, peas, bread and pies; and numerous
other articles, all of which showed great care
and thought.
	There were two meetings held, one at 10 a.m.
and one at 2 p.m. Each of them were largely
attended by both parents and children.
		ELLEN SUTHERLAND, Prest.

	PRIMARY ANNUAL.
DEAR EDITOR:
	The Primary Associations of Lewiston and
Coveville held their annual conference at
Lewiston, June 23rd. Meetings commenced at
10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Sisters Pike and Scrothers,
of Logan, were present. The forenoon exercises
consisted of recitations and songs by the
children. The different Associations were re-
ported improving.
	Sister Pike and Scrothers gave some very
good instruction in regard to the training and
education of the young; said that they should
be taught the first principles of the Gospel, so
that as they grew in years they would increase
in knowledge and understanding, and exhorted
all to be faithful in keeping the commandments
of the Lord.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m.: After the usual
opening exercises, there were speeches, dialogues,
songs and recitations by the children.
	Some of the brethren spoke, and gave some
very good instructions. A good spirit prevailed,
and all felt well in the Gospel, with a desire to
help roll forth this great and glorious work.
	Conference was then adjourned for one
year. I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		E. LEWIS.

PRIMARY REUNION.
	A reunion of the P. A. of Grouse Creek
was held at that place May 20th, at 3 p.m.,
Coun. Elizabeth Atkinson presiding. After
the opening exercises, the programme was ren-
dered as follows. An Essay, by James Batter-
age, entitled, "Tattling;" Song, Mary E. Barlow
and Camma Atkinson, entitled, "Strike, Strike
for Victory;" Recitation, Frances Toyne, "The
Complaints of the Poor;" Song, Henry and
Willard Hales, entitled, "Remember Poor
Mother at Home;" Essay, Emily Paskett, "The
Busy Bee;" Song, Alice and Fanny Kimber,
"Dry Your Tears, Dear Mother;" Recitation,
Etta McLaus, entitled, "Ah, No;" Song, James


Simpson and company, "Sabbath School;"
Dialogue, Lottie Paskett and Annie Kimber
"A Foolish Habit;" Song, Mary E. Toyne and
company, "Write me a Letter From Home;"
Song, Mary E. Barlow and Camma Atkinson,
"Touch not the Wine Cup, my Boy;" Recita-
tion, Hattie Fletcher, "Guilty, or not Guilty."
There were several others very good, but too
lengthy to put all the names down.
	Bro. P. Paskett, Coun. E. Atkinson, Alice
Kimber and Sister Betterage each made en-
couraging and interesting remarks; also Sister
P. Hales.
	Coun. E. Atkinson spoke of the coming of
June 1st, to be celebrated as May day, as it
was out late President Brigham Young's birth-
day, and said we had better celebrate that day;
selected three as a committee to take charge
and make out a programme. Closed by bless-
ing the children.
	Meeting closed by singing, "Dearest Child-
ren." Benediction by Coun. Alice Kimber.
	Members thirty-three, visitors twenty-one."
				JAMES BETTERAGE, Sec.
				------
		PRIMARY CELEBRATION.
	A grand celebration was held in Rexburg,
on June 1st, celebrating the late President
Brigham Young's birthday. The programme
was rendered as follows: Singing by the Rex-
burg Primary Choir. Prayer by the Chaplain,
Earnest Ricks. Singing by the choir. Open-
ing remarks by Bishop T. E. Ricks, in behalf
of the children. The May-queen, Marintha
Norris, was then crowned by the Archbishop,
Charles Fogg, and an appropriate song was
sung by the maids of honor.
	Coun. Wm. F. Rigby spoke with power, and
gave some excellent advice, that will be
cherished in after years.
	A recitation by Jannie Holman, and a song
by the Misses Elliots.
	Bro. Fogg then addressed the congregation.
In his remarks he spoke of the good our late
President Brigham Young had done, and the
love the Latter-day Sains had for him. A
song was then sung by the maids of honor,
and a declamation given by Mrs. S. A. Barnes.
	Prest. T. E. Ricks then addressed the
audience and spoke well. He was filled with
the Spirit of the Lord, and his remarks sank
deep into the hearts of all present, to bud and
bloom in future years. A song was then sung
by Mrs. Emily C. Anderson, and a declamation
given by Miss Fannie E. Paul.
	Bro. James Unsworth spoke of the goodness
of the Lord, and felt pleased to take part in
the celebration of Prest. Brigham Young's
birthday, and gave many good and interesting
instructions. A song was then sung by the
maids of honor.
	Coun. Emma Paul thought we had indeed
had a treat in having our beloved Prest., T. E.
Ricks, and his Coun., W. F. Rigby, in our
midst; felt that a good influence had prevailed.
A song was then sung by Rosetta Anderson.
	Prest. S. A. Barnes then arose and tendered
a vote of thanks to the committee that had got
out the material and put up the swings for the 
entertainment.
	Meeting closed by singing. Benediction by
the Chaplain.
	The children were then formed in procession
and marched down Main St. The children
sang several songs while marching. Prest.
Ricks gave them what candy was in his store,
Bro. Wm. Paul gave several hundred marbles,
which were divided among the boys, and Bros.
Durrans and Winters gave each child a sack
of candy and nuts as they were passing their
store. The children then marched back to the
meeting house, where the picnic was prepared.
The afternoon sports consisted of games,
swinging, and a dance for the children. The
day's entertainment closed with a grand ball
in the Rexburg hall.
		S. A. BARNES, Prest,
		EMMA PAUL,
		DIANA T. ECKERSELL, Couns.

		PRIMARY CONFERENCE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Minutes of a conference of the Primary As-
sociations of Paradise, Hyrum and Millville
wards. The Conference met at Paradise, June
20, 1888, commencing at 11 a.m., Coun. Pike
presiding over the meeting. Opened with
singing. Prayer by Bishop J. D. Hirst.
Singing. Minutes of the last conference, which
met at Millville, were read by Sister Crowther
and adopted. A recitation, "Keep out of
Debt," was rendered by Emma Norris, of the
Paradise Ward.
	Prest. Hannah Olsen, of Paradise, reported
the Primary of that ward. "There are enrolled
about 100, average attendance 50."
	"The Old Wooden Rocker, That Stands by
the Wall," was sung by Edith Gamble, of the
Millville Ward.
	The Millville Ward was then represented by
Prest. Sarah Gamble; the enrollment was 85,
average attendance 30.
	Prest. Hansen, of Hyrum, reported the 3rd
district of that ward. The speaker thought
the parents should take a little more interest
in the matter.
	Mary Obray, First Counselor to Sister Olsen,
of Paradise, was honorably released, and a vote
of thanks tendered for her labors.
	The Paradise Primary Association was then
reorganized, with the following officers: Hannah
Olsen, President; Louisa Smith and Isabell
Obray, Counselors: Josephine James, Secretary;
Caroline Larsen, Ass't Secretary; Ida Obray,
Treasurer.
	Bishop James D. Hirst made a few remarks;
showed the advantages and the necessity of
kindness; encouraged all to pursue a course
that would be approbated of God.
	A recitation, "Little Jim," was then given
by Danford Bickmore, of Paradise; a card
exercise on "Good Behavior," was rendered by
a class of little ones of the 1st district, Hyrum,
conducted by Martha Allen.
	Prest. Martha Allen reported the Association
over which she presided. "There are between
80 and 90 enrolled, and an attendance of about
20. The children were  encouraged to bear
their testimonies, and some had without being
asked.
	Sister Crowther, of Logan, addressed the
meeting; said she was very much pleased with
the boys for coming to the front, and made
excellent remarks.
	A duet, "All together," by Priscilla and
Laura Humphreys of Paradise; a dialogue, "A
Place for Everything," by Carrie Obray and
Julia Bradshaw; a song, by Annie Johnson
and Edgar Wing.
	Father David James addressed the meeting.
He said he was nearly eighty-five years of age,
and this was the first Primary Conference he
had attended; he said many good things. A
recitation, "Little Lallie's Wish," by Hallie
Yates.
	Elder Robert Pearce of Paradise, spoke a
short time on the principle of obedience.
	Sister Pike stated that Sister Molen, Prest.
of the Primary Associations, was absent on ac-
count of severe sickness. She had sent a letter
in which she sent her love to all the little
boys and girls, and prayed for the choicest
blessings of the Lord to rest upon those who
attended this conference. Sister Pike wished
the children to say Amen when a speaker con-
cluded his or her remarks. Admonished the
children to be kind to their parents and the
aged.
	Lavina Anderson, of Hyrum, gave a recita-
tion, "Keeping His Word." The Association
sang, "Around the Throne." Closing Prayer
by Elder Jacob Larsen.
	A good orderly spirit prevailed throughout
the meeting; the selections were well rendered
by the little ones, and all seemed to depart
with a feeling of kindness.
				Yours,
			JOSEPHINE JAMES, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A BISHOP'S LAST SERMON.

	"The following most remarkable sermon of
this century is reported to have been preached
on Christmas last by the Bishop of London,
England."
	Text—"Go to now, ye rich men, weep and
howl for your miseries that shall come upon
you. Behold, the hire of the laborers, who
have reaped your fields, which is of you kept
back by fraud, crieth; and the cries of them
which have reaped down are entered into the
ears of the Lord of Sabaoth. Ye have lived
in pleasure and have been wanton; ye have
nourished your hearts as in a day of slaughter.
Ye have condemned and killed the just and he
doth not resist you."—James v; 1, 4, 5, 6.
	Fellow citizens—The text which I have just
read you, and from which I shall preach the last
sermon as bishop that I shall ever deliver from
this pulpit, is one which is probably as unfamiliar
to you comfortable, well-to-do people, as it is
familiar to all those who, since it was originally
penned, have toiled and suffered for humanity.
Although it is read sometimes in the ordinary
course of our church service, yet judging by
your conduct, your ears have been deaf to its
terrible denunciations. From the days when I
was an humble curate until now, I have had a
large and varied experience of cathedrals,
churches, preachers and sermons, but I have
never yet heard a discourse based on these
words, and I cannot learn from any of my
brother bishops or priests, that they have ever
used them, or heard them so used.
	I can see by your uneasy demeanor that you
are asking yourselves why, on this Christmas
day, when, in accordance with custom, I should
be preaching smooth things to you, I should be
mad enough to offend your delicate susceptibili-
ties by quoting the sayings of one of the common
people--words written eighteen centuries ago,
which might have done very well then, but
which cannot possibly be applied to you and
to your class to-day; you who come here, clad
in purple and fine linen, who, some of you,
live in king's houses, who fare delicately every
day, and who consider that you have fulfilled
every moral obligation when you have dropped
a coin into the collection box, before you step
into your carriage to be driven into your lux-
urious homes. It is because that I believe
that not only James, but Jesus Christ Himself,
if He could stand in my place to-day, would
hurl these words at you with a force and a
passion of which we, in this nineteenth century,
have but little conception. Not as a bishop,
but as a man, I repeat them to you, hardly
hoping that they may touch your hearts, but
more as a justification for my new and strange
position.
	For years I have been one of you. My
home has not been where Christ's home was,
with the masses, but with the classes. I have
an abundance of this world's goods. I have
lived with the fashionable, with the wealthy,
and I have been a dignitary of a church which
is the church of the rich, and not the church
of the poor. Without a protest I have mixed
in society with men and women, whom Christ
would have denounced as bitterly as He de-
nounced the Scribes and Pharisees. In the
House of Lords I have silently sat side by side
with whoremongers and adulterers, and as
silently have I welcomed as my personal


[Column 1]

friends high born women—some of whom I
see before me to-day—with whom no decent
workingman would allow his wife or daughters
to associate.
	I have seen among you, spreading  like a
canker the lust of the flesh, and the pride of
life, and instead of reproving you, as Christ
would have done, I have taken refuge in gener-
alities, and have not dared to denounce your 
individual sins. And all this time there has
been going on around me, in this huge city,
and throughout the land, the surging, toiling
life of humanity, the sorrow, the suffering, the
poverty, the disease, the sin and shame, which
I realize but dimly, as something altogether
apart from my own existence, but for which, I
at last see clearly, you and I have been, up to
the present time, mostly to blame. We and
our class have kept back by fraud the hire of
the laborers who have reaped our field; we
have lived in pleasure on the earth and
been wanton; we have nourished our own
hearts while we have starved the bodies of
those to whom we owe the very bread we eat,
and the clothes we wear, and now we are con-
demning and killing at our very gates the peo-
ple whose inarticulate cry is entering into the
ears of the Lord of Sabaoth, whose faithful
servants we pretend to be.
	My fellow-citizens—I know not how it may
be with you, but for me this careless, selfish
life is ended. Little by little I have awakened
to the fact that all my days I have entirely
neglected my real duty to my fellow-men, and
at last I have come to know that my proper
place is not here, as the well paid bishop of a
church which, in its present condition, is utter-
ly opposed to everything which Christ taught,
but among the poor, to whom He declared
that the Gospel should be preached among the
laborers whose hire we have kept back by
fraud.
	Too long have I neglected the miserable
social facts of our so-called Christian civiliza-
tion. Too long have I spoken to you smooth
things, and cried peace when there was no
peace. I have known by repute that there was
misery among our people, starvation in our
midst, and prostitution upon our streets. But
hitherto I have taken these as something for
which you and I were not responsible, but
which were really due to the inherent wicked-
ness of nature
	But now I have learned that our pleasures
and our wantonness have been built upon this
hideous foundation, and have learned this—
as you may also learn if you will—I have re-
solved that from this Christmas day my new
life shall begin. To-day I lay down my robes,
I give up my bishopric, my palace and my
income; I give up my pleasures of society and
of the world; I give up my seat in the House
of Lords, and at last I take my place as a man
among men.
	It is, I know, a bold step I have taken, but I
have counted the cost. Resolved no longer to
live on the labors of others, I shall probably
have to join the great army of the unemployed.
To-morrow I shall attempt to preach my first
sermon to them in Trafalgar Square, from the
same text that I have used here to-day, and it
is likely that I shall pass to-morrow night in a
police cell.  But there I shall be no worse off
than Jesus Christ would be,if He attempted to
enter this abbey (Westminster) now, for He
would be arrested and locked up as a vagabond
without visible means of subsistance. To you
and to your class He would simply be a laborer
whose subsistance you have kept by fraud. To
the abolition of that fraud, and of the misery
and degradation which result from it, I shall
henceforth devote my life. It will be no easy
task; not near so easy as being Bishop of Lon-
don, but the reward of a good conscience and
of noble work well done, is better far than a 

[Column 2]

palace and ten thousand pounds ($48,400) a
year.
	In this place I shall probably never speak
again. But when Freedom shall have opened
out her arms and gathered all men into her
wide embrace, when Justice and Truth shall
have taken the place of oppression and fraud,
some man of the people shall stand in this tem-
ple of the dead, and inspired by the best tradi-
tion of the past, the noble aspirations of the
present and ideal hopes of the future, shall
send ringing through these lofty aisles that
loving Christmas message, which till then can
never have its full significance—"Peace on
earth and goodwill to men."
		HERBERT BURROWE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

     Mrs. Matthew Arnold has been refused the
pension enjoyed by her late husband.
     Dr. Clara Marshall is appointed dean of
Pennysylvania Women's College, in plaee of
Dr. Rachel Bodley.
     Queen Victoria has given $350,000, the bal-
ance of the women's jubilee offering, to St.
Catherine's Training Hospital for nurses for
London poor.
     We hear that the Emperor of Japan has
created a new order, the Order of the Crown.
It is exclusively for women, and it is to be the
reward of distinguished merit.
     The will of Rachel L. Bodley, late dean of
the Woman's Medical College, which was ad-
mitted to Probate Saturday, bequeathed to the
Woman’s Medical College all her scientific
books, and her herbarium of dried plants and
the six cases containing them; to the Presbyte-
rian Home for Widows and Single women the
remainder of her books and the three walnut 
cases in which they are contained.—Ex.
	The National Teachers' Association, which
meets in San Francisco on the 17th of July,
was organized in 1857.  This year it will be
represented by ten thousand teachers from all
the States and Territories, and more than half
of these will be women.  This fact, and the
part women will take in the convention, marks
the gain of the last thirty years.  Now women
are active members and officers of the associa-
tion, and no one questions their right.  Con-
trast this fact with that stated by Miss Anthony,
who years ago asked to speak in a teachers'
meeting, and it took a long time to secure per-
mission, and the other women teachers were
ashamed that any one of their number should
do so unwomanly a thing.—Ex.


GENEROUS DR. BUCKLEY.

	Scene, Heaven's Gate.
	St. Peter, addressing Frances Willard and
other Christian women: "Welcome, dear sisters.
Enter into the joy of your Lord."
	Dr. Buckley, jumping on a soap-box, push-
ing St. Peter away, and slamming the door in
the ladies' faces: "Every woman that gets in
here keeps out a man, to the disadvantage of
heaven.  I stand here to champion the holy
cause of woman!"		H. W.


OBITUARY.
	A sad and terrible accident occurred within a quarter of
a mile of Antonito, in this county (Conejos).  On the 27th
day of June, Sister Maria Gertrude Peterson accompanied
her husband, who was going to the county seat on business,
and upon returning, about a quarter of a mile from
Antonito, Sister Peterson raised her parasol, which
frightened the horse so that he ran away.  Sister Peterson
was determined to jump out of the vehicle in spite of the
entreaties of her husband, who was trying to quiet her as
well as to stop the frightened horse; she fell upon the


ground. Bro. Peterson soon obtained control of the horse,
and returned to find his wife lying on her face, almost
senseless. She was soon conveyed to the town of Antonito,
where two doctors and many friends did all in their power
to save her, but it was unavailing; she passed away from
this life at half-past eight in the evening, to join her two
children, who died of whooping-cough in 1872, sixteen
years before. She was born in Mara, New Mexico, on the
7th of Sept., 1850. She was married to L. Marcos
Peterson, February 17, 1863. In the year 1875 she accom-
panied her husband to Utah, where they embraced the
Gospel; they were baptized by Apostle Erastus Snow. They
returned to their home in Colorado, and gathered with
others of the Lamanite people, who had embraced the
truth through their preaching, to Savoia, New Mexico.
From there they came to the San Luis Valley, where they
have lived ever since. Sister Peterson was of the true
blood of Israel, and devoted to her religion. She was
reserved and lady-like in her appearance; was a woman of
good judgment, and was a bright example to her sex; she
was greatly beloved by all her native people, and also by
all the Latter-day Saints with whom she was acquainted.
She was hospitable and kind; to know her was to love her;
when once her friendship was gained it was lasting and
true. The love and esteem in which she was held by the
community was shown by the hundreds who attended her
funeral, from different parts of the county. The services
were held in the Manassa meeting house, June 29, 1888.
The speakers were Prest. John Morgan and Prest. S. S.
Smith. After the ceremonies were over she was laid to
rest, to await a glorious resurrection with the just. She
leaves a sorrowing husband, mother and brother, and many
friends, who look forward to that happy time, when we
shall all meet again, where we shall be free from dangers,
sickness and pain.
		S. T. BOICE.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 17.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1888.			NO. 5


VOLNEY'S PICTURE.

Beside my knee my darling stood,
Just five years old, and sweet and good,
Watching my face the while I told
Some story bright from pages old,
Such as we learned in childhood's days,
When suddenly his thoughtful gaze
Changed into one of sweet surprise—
"Ma, there's a picture in your eyes!"

"Whose picture is it, do you know?"
He caught my hands and whispered low,
"It's mine!" And climbing to my knee—
"It's so you'll always 'member me;"
And rested 'gainst my cheek awhile
His own, with its sweet rosy smile.

The morning dawned, and he awoke,
His happy voice the silence broke,
And fancy's day dreams took to flight,
And yet I could but laugh outright,
For who could frown against the kiss
Of tyrant loving, sweet as this?
"Dear little fellow," sister said,
As tenderly she smoothed his head,
"In all this time the little pet
Aint had his picture taken yet."

Swiftly the dear one turned around,
As though a great surprise were found,
His cheeks all flushed with earnest glow,
"Yes, but my picture's taken, though!"
And answering looks of question, doubt,
With sweet lips pressed 'gainst laughing out,
Paused, then with mirth so sly and wise,
"My pitser's taken in ma's eyes!"

Oh, happy heart, that found a bliss
In such a little thing as this!
Yet though his joy so simple seems,
I find its counterpart in themes
By sacred bards in grander line,
That though all Christian spirits twine,
Ringing where every choir stands—
"My name is written in Thy hands."

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, July 30, 1888.


CORRESPONDENCE.

			NEW MEXICO, June 26, 1888.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR SISTER:—I have been trying for
weeks to find a few spare moments in which I
might pen a few lines once more, for it is really
cheering to read the many beautiful articles in
the EXPONENT, and causes me to feel hopeful
enough to try again, though so many obstacles
are in the way.
	June, with its lovely roses, is nearly gone,
and I have so often thought of you, and wished
I might send you a bouquet of the fine ones
growing in our garden; but there is a little one
laying in her cradle beside me, "Sweeter than
all the roses," that I wish you could see.  I do
not mention my baby as if she were the only
one, but because I must, for my heart is so
filled with thanks to God for this precious gift
sent to gladden our lonely home, that I cannot
look at her innocent face and keep silent.
	The "glorious Fourth" will soon be here, and
we anticipate having a nice quiet time; have
invited the few people that live in the valley.
The weather is very warm indeed, making one
feel much inclined to be idle.
	It is ten days since I began my letter, and I
thought to finish it at once, but writing is one

[Column 2]
of the tasks which I must compel myself to
perform.  Oh, it would be so nice to be able to
run in and chat awhile with my dear friends,
for I really get hungry to do so; and now I am
calling them up one by one in my mind's eye.
How encouraging it is to look at their sweet,
patient faces, many bearing such heavy bur-
dens.  Oh, I fancy I see the angels lift them
now and then, to rest the weary shoulders, and
the still more weary heart and brain.
	Oh, dear sisters, do you think our kind, lov-
ing Father is unmindful of what you are suf-
fering to maintain those pure principles He
has revealed for our salvation?  Let us live
the present days of trial in the hope of the
great pay, that the future will surely bring to
those who remain pure and true.  And, oh,
let us love and encourage one another, putting
jealousy and envy under our feet.  Have we
not enough to bear of realities without suffer-
ing over imaginary causes.  Do we not expect
to associate together in the great hereafter? and
can we look for perfect love and union there,
unless we break down some of the barriers to
that union and love here?  We will, most as-
suredly, begin at the very point we leave off.
We cannot overcome all our weaknesses at
once, but we can and must be charitable, and
stand by each other, in spite of these petty
frailties, if we wish a clear conscience and the
divine approval of heaven.
	If we have not thought of these things it is
certainly time we were doing so.  It is a try-
ing time to the Saints, and yet we can truly
say there never was a time when we had more
cause to rejoice and give thanks to our God,
for are not all the legions below turned loose
to try and destroy us, and does not the same
power that permits of our temptation help us
to understand it? and by resisting the tempter
and being humble and prayerful, we will
prove our worthiness to dwell within the
realms of light, beyond the reach of sin for-
ever and ever.
				MARY S. BURNHAM.


REMINISCENCES.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I have only just met with an opportunity to
peruse the EXPONENT for April 15th, 1888.
It contains an article entitled, "The Old
Home," which has made me feel as though my
very heartstrings would break.  It has brought
the early scenes of my childhood so vividly to
my mind, and "The Old Home" so truly de-
scribes my own feelings, that I at once re-
solved to write a little about myself.  You may
not think it worthy of a place in the EXPONENT,
but that I leave to your better judgment.  I
will venture to send it, and would be pleased to 
see it in that paper. 
	My childhood was a very happy time.  I 
was admitted as a scholar in the Sunday School
at the age of five years, where I was as per-
fectly happy as a child could be, for I loved
my teacher as my own soul, and have gone to
school many times without my breakfast lest I
should not be there before her, ready to greet
her as soon as she came.  I do not remember
that during these years of childhood I had a 
single trouble.  My father had a good farm,
therefore we were surrounded with the com-
forts of life.  We had abundance of fruit and 
vegetables in their season.  A splendid lawn
was spread out in front of the house with here

[column 2]
and there a clump of flowers, and, my father
being a florist, they were some of the choicest;
a row of majestic looking elm trees stood along
the outside of the fence, which gave our place
the name of "The Five Elms."  On one side of
our house and garden was a large green sward,
where boys and girls, and sometimes father
and mother, would join in a merry game of
play.  On the other side was our farm build-
ings, and at the back was our kitchen garden.
In the front of all, and next to the elm trees,
were two or three acres of land, at that time
uncultivated, but it grew wild raspberries and
furze, which was always in bloom, and very
pretty, and what was better still, it supplied us
with as many fine rabbits as we needed.
	Harvest time had come, and the precious
grain was being gathered in.  We had already
built two or three stacks and filled our barn to
overflowing, still there was much to be done,
when our dear mother was seized with sickness,
and was soon delirious with brain fever.  We
were but children and easily alarmed, and were
watching her with great anxiety, for we had no
one with us, father being in the harvest field
half a mile away.  "Hark!" cried my sister;
"listen!"  I did listen, and the next moment
heard for myself "Fire, fire!"  In our excite-
ment we ran to the window.  Meanwhile, our
mother seemed to comprehend that something
was the matter, and in her fright leaped out of
bed and down the stairs.  Her fright giving
her strength, she ran across the lawn, fell down
under one of the elms and fainted.  She was
carried to the nearest neighbor's house, a few
rods away, which she never left again until she
was carried to her grave.
	But the fire, how shall I describe that?  It
had happened through one of the farm hands
taking advantage of our father's absence to
smoke a pipe in the barn, dropped a spark and
it was soon in a blaze.  We were two miles 
away from the fire brigade, and the same dis-
tance from water, living upon a high gravel
hill, where everything is as dry as dust, and
before father could reach home all the build-
ings were wrapped in flames, and we knew it
could not escape, for it stood within two yards
of the barn.
	In half an hour we had the fire brigade and
3,000 people upon the grounds, hundreds of 
them willing to assist, but very little could be
done, for our largest wheat stack, valued at
$1,000, was burning fiercely away, and seemed
to be laughing us to scorn.  "Betsy," said I to
my sister, "who can those three men be on the
top of that burning stack?  Look how the
flames are wrapping around their legs, they
will surely be burned to death."  The next
moment we saw the firemen directing the
water over the men, that they might be kept
wet and cool while they threw the sheaves of
wheat down for others to drag away on to the 
common.  Brave fellows!  they acted nobly,
but they were badly scorched and could not
save the stack.
	But now our patience is about to be painfully
tried.  Some men are rushing into the house 
and beginning to throw the furniture pell mell
on the lawn.  Now our troubles began in
earnest; how we cried.  What would mother
say to see all those good things spoiled?  "Oh,
do be careful of that mahogany clock, father
bought it only a few weeks ago, and he gave a
lot of money for it."  this was one of those
clocks about six feet high, ornamented on the
top with gilt knobs; how handsome it looked,


[Column 1]

especially to our young eyes. "Oh, do be
careful!" "Get out of my way, and don't
hinder me; I have no time to be careful," and
one man took hold of one end and another
took hold of the other end, and standing on the
door stone, threw it on the lawn as far as their
strength would let them; and so with every-
thing else in the house.
	Oh, that dreadful crash! What can it be?
Turning in a moment to where the sound came
from, we were struck with terror, for we beheld
the roofs of all the buildings—cart-house,
stables, barn and sheds—falling in together,
and the sight was one never to be forgotten.
The blood red flames and black smoke shooting
up to the sky, were awfully grand, and had it
not been so terrible, would have been truly
magnificient.
	"Look at those pretty white chickens; what
can possess them to fly into the flames to be
roasted to death?" We cannot save them, but
we congratulate the poor horses, who are in the
harvest field, and therefore safe.
	Well, the fire burned on. It was plainly to
be seen that it would not yield until everything
was consumed. One stack after another bowed
to the devouring element, until all our hay, as
well as our grain, was gone, for it burned so
rapidly that nothing could be removed until it
was spoiled. It burned all night; and, O, the
desolate picture that met my eyes when day-
light appeared next morning, I could not de-
scribe, though I can see it all so perfectly. Hun-
dreds of men were still there, and with their
blackened hands and faces, and drenched
clothes, looked objects of pity. The fire con-
tinued to burn for twelve days, smouldering
and blazing alternately, for the grain being
new, it took longer to consume.
	But, to return to my mother. She never re-
covered from the shock, but lingered on for
seven years, a confirmed invalid. We all went
to live in the same house with her, and, being
the eldest daughter, it was my melancholy duty,
with the assistance of my sister, to nurse her.
Her decline was very gradual, but at last the
time came when we had to call the family
around her bed, feeling that her time had come.
She was a very reserved woman, and we did
not expect to hear much from her lips, but the
last words came—"Lord, Jesus, receive my
spirit."—two or three gasps and she was gone.
We did not realize it until my father, in a 
solemn and subdued tone, said, "The Lord
gave, and the Lord hath taken away, blessed
be the name of the Lord." Then our tears be-
gan to flow indeed. We all imprinted a kiss
on her already cold forehead and left her.
	The day of the funeral came, and we had to
lay away one of the sweetest and kindest of
mothers.
	With bleeding hearts we entered the meeting
house, and it was with difficulty we could fix
our minds upon the funeral service. I was at
length aroused by the minister reading the
words of Abraham, when his wife Sarah died—
"Give me the possession of a burying place,
that I may bury my dead out of my sight."
At the sound of these words the tears gushed
forth afresh, but I often think now, that if we 
had known the Gospel as revealed by the
Prophet Joseph, how it would have mitigated
our sorrow; but, thanks to our Father in Hea-
ven, the Gospel has been revealed, the work
for my father and mother has been performed
in the Temple, and they have been reunited
for eternity, and I have a hope that when I get
behind the veil I shall again enjoy their so-
ciety.
	When my mother died, our family was scat-
tered far and wide; some of them I never saw
again; they died one by one, until nearly are
gone.
	More than thirty years after I lost my mother,
I was seized with an intense longing to see my
native place again, and to visit the grave of
my mother and those of my brothers who had

[Column 2]

been laid by her side. I had one brother left
near my home, whom I visited, and from his
window I could see the room where my mother
died. I walked round the old garden, saw the
flowers she planted, at least some that had been
raised from the same roots; I went into the
room where she died, and stood upon the same
spot where her remains had been laid while
awaiting burial. I sat down and went, and
cried, "Oh, my mother! my mother!" But,
painful as this was, it was much more so to
visit the place where the old farm once stood.
Oh, the agony of grief I felt! The old place
had been much altered, but there were many
things to remind me of former times. Another
farm had been built upon the same spot, which,
of course, was nearly all strange to me, but
not quite all, for the fire had spared a small
back room, which used to be mine, also a large
brick oven, where we used to bake our bread
for the family; this was all that remained of
the house. I walked into the garden, but I
cannot begin to describe what I felt, but enough
to make me feel that I would like to lie down
beside my mother under the large lilac tree—
a spot our minister had given us in his garden
for a burying place. 
	I saw the grand old elms still there, and
much of the handiwork of my father's hands
in years gone by. I saw my mother's sweetest
of all honeysuckles growing just the same as it
was thirty years before from the porch and
partly over the roof of the house. The old
wood had been cut away year by year, and the
new shoots allowed to grow, so that it looked
just the same. What I felt over all this, none
can better realize than your correspondent of
"The Old Home." While I cannot look back 
upon any act of wilful disobedience, or any
wish to give offense to my beloved parents, yet
I wished, O, how I wished that I had striven
more than I did to please them. The very
thought that I might have served them better
was almost more than I could bear, and many
times since then I have thought that if I was
treated by my relatives and friends, so that
they could look upon my dead face without a
pang of self-regret, it is all I wish for. It is
very pleasant to hear the good deeds of our
fellow Saints spoken of after they are gone, or
to see flowers placed around their coffin or their
graves—all this is very beautiful, but does not
help the dear ones who have left us. The kind,
sympathetic word, the little act of kindness, or
even a pleasant look, while living, is worth
moro than all the eulogy that can be showered
upon us when gone. Those whose hearts have
been crushed over and over again, become very
sensitive, and need sympathy as much as they
need their daily food. If any doubt this, let
them wait until they have passed through seas
of suffering and sorrow, and are ready to say
with the Psalmist, "All thy waves and thy bil-
lows have gone over me;" let them lay in the
silent tomb father and mother, sisters and
brothers; in addition to this, let them be called
to give back to their Heavenly Father one
sweet babe after another, until they are left
childless and a widow. All this I have passed
through, and much more. My first born son
was spared to me, but he does not know his
mother, for is she not a Mormon? Yes, thank
God! I am a Mormon, and even my love
for my first-born will not induce me to draw
back. I am an imperfect one, it is true, and I
know it, but it is my daily study to keep firm
hold of the "rod of iron," which leads to the
tree of life. Since my home was destroyed by
fire; I have felt like a stranger in a strange
land, for the feeling of "home" has never en-
tered into my breast from that hour, but I am
looking forward to the time when I shall be at
rest in the everlasting home of the Saints. I
thank my Father for opening the way for me
to come to Zion, and for opening hearts to re-
ceive me.
	May God bless kind friends a hundred fold.

[Column 3]

May He bless all those who are engaged in any
way in helping to build up His kingdom.
		MARY Y. CORBY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENT.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Report of a Primary Conference, held at
Petersborough on the 12th inst, in which the
Primaries of Wellsville and Mendon were re-
presented, and took an active part.
	Meeting convened at 2 p.m., with an over-
flowing house, Stake Prest. Jane E. Molen pre-
siding. After the usual opening exercises, the
programme was taken up with great vigor by
the children, all seeming to realize that they
were engaged in a good work, a work that was
fitting and qualifying them for the future
events that await them. The Spirit of God
prevailed in our midst, thus causing a genial
and pleasant feeling to exist.
	Appropriate dialogues, recitations,songs, etc.,
were beautifully rendered by the children of
the different Associations, plainly showing that
a lively interest is being taken by the presi-
dents for the progression of the work and de-
velopment of the young and tender minds of
the little ones, those germs of goodness and
truth, placed under our care to be taught in
the ways of God.
	At intervals through the exercises, the Asso-
ciations were reported as being in a prosperons
condition, and valuable instructions given by
brethren and sisters who were present, each
expressing their pleasure at seeing so many as-
sembled together, with countenances beaming
with joy and gladness, and hearts and spirits
blended with ties of love and affection. Had
a firm desire to see the little ones grow up to
be men and women of wisdom, of intelligence,
of sobriety, of everything that is calculated to
ennoble, to elevate, to refine, and make them
virtuous, pure and God like.
	Prest. J. E. Molen, in her closing remarks,
counseled the children to honor, obey and re-
spect their parents, show reverence to the
aged, and be kind to all with whom they came
in contact; by so ordering their lives they will
grow up to be wise and useful, helping in the
rolling forth of the purposes of God. The
subject of prayer was also impressed upon their
minds. By being fervent in prayer, we will
be in constant communion with the Holy
Spirit, and thereby elicit aid and assistance in
time of need.
	The children then engaged in singing, "We
are the children of the Saints," and Bro. John
Kidman pronounced the benediction.
	Yours respectfully,
		MAGGIE BROWN.
Wellsville, Utah, July 14, 1888.


Miss Frances E. Willard will be fifty years
old next year, and the National W. C. T. U.
have decided to celebrate the event. At the
convention in Nashville last year, it was re-
solved that she be invited to write her autobio-
graphy, with the history of the Temperance
Union during its sixteen eventful years. Miss
Willard accepted the invitation, and is now
busily engaged upon the book.—Ex.
	The German novelist, George Ebers, lately
received a letter from a ladies' reading club in
St. Louis, Mo., expressing their admiration of
his poem "The Elves" Ebers, in his reply,
expresses warm appreciation of the tribute
paid him, adding; "The poet's offering to his
country is his work; his recompense is his
readers' interest and pleasure. In addressing
your beautiful letter to me, you have given me
more than I deserve, and, as you have been so
kind to me, I take the liberty of drawing
closer to you by inclosing my photograph."—
Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FOR BELLE.

	"Little Hazel is gone," so the word
Came to me in my far-away
Wandering home, "and our
Friends are sore stricken,
May God heal and bless," and
I murmur Amen to the prayer.
"Our friends," Frank and Belle, you
Have earned well the name, and
I would I could whisper sweet
Peace to your souls, in your sad
Time of sorrow and pain—
He gave and hath taken your
Treasure again.
	Christ is the Great Healer, pass
Under the Rod, it is lifted in
Love, and the Balm He will
Give unto you.
	As I hold Mary's letter, time's
Pages fold back, and I stand
'Neath the trees where I first met
With Frank. Our Jennie was
With us, rememberest thou? and
That first pleasant evening, in
The cot in the wild wood?
Now she, too, has left us in sorrow
To bow, and long for her presence again.
Life's strange, fitful fever ne'er
Reaches that Shore where our
Loved ones have gone—there
Is comfort in this
	Though the shadows for us
Darker fall, it is but for a day,
God will keep them, and give them
Again to our arms—where the
Meeting will take all the sting
From the parting.
	God is trying and testing as gold
In the fire; oh, shrink not, and
Donbt not His love! Would we
Share in His glory, we must drink
The cup that opens that glory to us.
He knows your integrity, friends to
The truth, hold steadfast and
Firm to the end; and, Belle,
Every pang in your great Sacrifice
He hath known, and your Cross
Will entwine with garlands
Unfading, and weave for your
Brow the Crown of the Pure in heart.
And now, my dear friends, let
Joy fill your hearts, for you
Are of the best loved of heaven;
You have been true to the
Motherless ones, and Sarah
Will care for your orphans in heaven—
Little Frank, little Hazel—your
Babies above, you will meet
In that bright land of glory and love.
	In friendship yours,
		S.E.R.
Sarah E. Russell.


[Column 1]

APPRECIATION OF MRS. HOWE.

DEAR EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It gave me much pleasure to read your notice
and sketch of our distinguished visitor, Mrs.
Julia, Ward Howe. Hundreds of intelligent
Mormon ladies would have appreciated the
privilege of hearing and seeing her, if a lecture
in the Theatre had been given. I doubt if
anywhere in the civilized world, woman is more
willing to accord to woman an appreciative
and just homage. Years ago, Florence Percy
(Elizabeth Akers Allen) wrote to me, "Praise
from woman seems so strange to me; it is so
unusual in my experience."
	When first I heard the "Battle Hymn of the
Republic," it was in California. Four of my
mother's brothers had volunteered, and two
had fallen in the service. My mother was an
Abolutionist, my father a Southerner in his

[Column 2]

proclivities, and sympathized with the confeder-
ates, and many of the Officers—Stonewall
Jackson and Robert E. Lee, among them—were
old acquaintances of his. I often heard both.
sides of the question in glowing language. In-
tense feeling prevailed all abound us; many of 
our friends volunteered, among them men of
wealth and prominence. Regulars and volun-
teers were encamped in our vicinity awaiting
marching orders, and in the interval father
invited a number of the officers to visit us,
which they did, during the winter and spring
of 1861.
	I often yet recall the songs then so popular
—"Lorena," and "When This Cruel War is
Over," among them. I have these now, in 
manuscript faded, but not torn, and the hand
that traced them was hidden long ago, and a 
Fort named for him marks his resting place. 
Blended with that lofty patriotism was the
spirit of songs, that made officer and subordin-
ate kindred in sympathy. Often while I
listened, there seemed to me as much of sad-
ness as of sweetness in words and music, a
romantic tinge of melancholy around the
heroic men who had freely offered their lives to
their country.
	Of the many we had known, a few returned
when the war was over, to tell us the stories of
the others.
	One night, before they were to march in the
morning, a number called to pay us a parting
visit. Three of the gentlemen were, a Major,
a Lieutenant, an Adjutant of the Regulars;
also a Captain and two Lieutenants of the
Volunteers.
	The "Battle-Hymn of the Republic" had
just come out. I was sick and in my own
room, and did not see the company, but on go-
ing, they paused under the great trees that sur-
rounded the house, and sang in the darkness,
all together, as farewell and serenade, the
"Battle-Hymn of the Republic." The spirit
of the great national struggle, felt so intensely
everywhere, the darkness of the night and the
parting from old friends, going to the field of
death, the indescribable pathos and sacredness
of that farewell, so full of hope, trust and
strength, as breathed in those words, filled my
mind with emotions and admiration beyond
expression. And often since, when I have
come across that poem in my scrap book, or its
title in some paper, book or magazine, I have
closed my eyes for a moment or two to live
over again that hour in my girlhood, and have
felt to thank heaven for the many jeweled
hours of that life. I have always appreciated
as a heavenly gift,any and all incidents of life
that were beautiful and worthy of cherished
remembrance. And are not beautiful memories
worth more than gold or silver?
	But not alone the romance of chivalry in
the time of our Nation's danger and its grand
expression in that Hymn, made the poet's lines
of deep interest to me; I learned to read it
anew, without the thought of waving flag and
martial music, without the proud thought of
splendid uniforms and dashing cavalry, even
without remembrance of that dark night and
the soulful voices under the great shadowy
branches; I have dreamed those lines over be-
side the broad hearths within low roofed log
cabins, repeated them in my heart within a
wagon's cover, and studied their new meaning
in my own home with my babe asleep on my
arm. Once it was to me a War hymn, now it is
a hymn of history and prophecy. From be-
ginning to end it holds a spiritual significance
to our people, that the author never intended,
or knew of in that application.
	Who, better than the Latter-day Saint, un-
derstands the truth and beauty of that first
verse? It is Scripture.

	"Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the
		Lord;

[Column 3]

	He is trampling out the vintage where the grapes of wrath
		are stored;
	He has loosed the fateful lightnings of His terrible swift
		sword
			His truth is marching on."

God was 

	"In the watch fires of an hundred circling camps," 

when the plundered and driven Saints gathered
around them; they

	"Builded Him an altar in the evening's dews and damps,"

when nightly their prayers ascended to Him,
and what was

	"His righteous sentence by the dim and flaring lamps."

yes,

	"His day is marching on."

	We know that,

	"He has sounded forth the trumpet that shall never call
		retreat, 
	He is sifting out the hearts of men before His judgment
		seat—"

He is gathering to Himself those who will re-
ceive His Gospel, and the rest are as the chaff 
beneath the seive;

	"O, be swiift my soul to meet Him, be jubilant my feet!
		Our God is marching on."

	Who realizes this more than the Latter-day 
Saints?

	"With a glory in His bosom that transfigures you and me."

	Has not the Gospel made us different from
what we were? Our thoughts, plans, aspira-
tions and works are lifting us forever into a
higher sphere of understanding. Are we not
transfigured from our former selves? Can any-
one understand us,who has not received of that
spirit from His bosom?

	"As He died to make men holy, let us die to make men
		free,
			While God is marching on."

	When Joseph and Hyrum returned and
gave themselves up, that their people might be
free from the savage fury of their enemies, they
fulfilled the spirit of those words. And "God
is marching on." Not words of poetry and
grandeur alone, but words of truth and power.
But among the millions who admire that Hymn,
how few read it by this light.
	Yes, as a Mormon woman I can feel its ap-
propriateness to my faith and people, and look
forward, as the author did, to the deliverance
of the Republic, great and glorious among
nations. More than that—for the kingdom of
God.
	I would have loved to have met the woman
who wrote that poem, but could not; however,
I wrote to Mrs. Julia Ward Howe a little of
what I have written here (during her stay in
Salt Lake City), and the lady kindly answered
me.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON. 
South Bountiful, July 22, 1888.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	“The announcement that Louisa M. Alcott’s
home at Concord, Mass, is to be sold, leads to
the suggestion that it be bought by subscrip-
tion and converted into a home for poor child
ren, as a memorial to the author so well be 
loved by young readers.”		
	At the Chautauqua Assembly at Framing-
ham, Mass.. Prof. Townsend a few days ago,
warmly advocated woman suffrage, and spoke
in high terms of the valuable service rendered,
by the women of the Boston School Board. His
words were received with enthusiastic applause
and a general waving of handkerchiefs by the
assembiy.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B, WELLS, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City. Utah.

	Entered at the East Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

Salt Lake City, 	 August 1, 1888.


[column 1]
		THE TWENTY-FOURTH.
	The commemoration of the anniversary of the
entrance of the Pioneers into this valley was cele-
brated last month with appropriate services in the
large Tabernacle, an immense concourse of peo-
ple being in attendance.  It was forty-one years
since the company of Pioneers arrived where Salt 
Lake City now stands.  The grand organ was
handsomely draped with the stars and stripes, and
a steel engraving of President Brigham Young
hung in the centre among the national colors.
Underneath it a banner bore the one word,
"Unity." Below this another banner, with the
words, "Utah's Association."  On the south side
of the organ were the words, "Pioneers '47;" on 
the north side, "Welcome."  The three stands
were draped with national flags, and the platform
in front of the stands, used on such occasions,
was tastefully ornamented with flowers and plants
in bloom.  On one side was the head and horns of
a buffalo, with its long, shaggy hair, and on the
other the very old flag of stars and stripes, that
was flung out to the mountain breeze from Ensign
Peak on their first visit to the mountains, two days
after their arrival.
	The committee of arrangements, officers of the
Sunday School and six of the Pioneers were upon
the platform.  The Pioneers were, Mrs. Clara
Decker Young, widow of the late Brigham Young,
Patriarch Lorenzo D. Young, his brother, Bishop
Jacob Weiler, Bishop Millen Atwood and Charles
D. Branham.  On the stand were Apostles John
Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor,
Patriarch John Smith, Prest. Seymour B. Young,
M. D., Prest. Angus M. Cannon, Members of the 
High Council, Sunday School officers and others.
Ass't Gen. Supt. of Deseret S. S. Union presided.
The 6th Ward silver band played a selection, and 
the S. S. children, Elder Thos. McIntyre leading,
sung, "Our Mountain Home so Dear."  Prayer
by Elder George Goddard.  A Xylophone solo, by
Adelbert Beesley, was followed by an address
from President Wilford Woodruff, read by Elder
B. F. Cummings, Jr.
To the Pioneers and Citizens, and to the Officers
	and Members of the Sabbath Schools:
	MY DEAR FRIENDS:—Forty-one years ago
this day I passed through Emigration Canon with
President Brigham Young.  He was taken sick on
East Cañon Creek, and I made a bed for him in
my carriage. When we came upon the bench I
turned the side of the vehicle to the west, so that
he could obtain a fair view of the valley.  Presi-
dent Young arose from his bed and took a survey
of the country before him for several minutes. He
then said to me, "Drive on down into the valley,
this is our abiding place.  I have seen it before in
vision.  In this valley will be built the City of the
Saints and the Temple of our God."  I drove
[column 2]
down to the encampment already formed by a por-
tion of our company, who had cut a road through
the quaking asp groves of timber which were in
the bed of the canon and come in ahead of us.
	We arrived in the encampment at half-past
eleven of the 24th of July, 1847  The brethren 
had already turned out City Creek and irrigated
the dry and barren soil, being the first irrigation 
ever performed by any one in these mountains in
this age.  They had also commenced to plough
some ground, and that noble pioneer, William
Carter, whose circumstances prevent him from
meeting with the pioneers to-day, broke the first
ground and laid the first furrow.  The plowshare
that performed the work is on the stand to-day.
On my arrival in camp, before I ate my dinner, I
planted two bushels of potatoes in the ground
broke up.  President Young commenced to re-
cover from his sickness the hour he entered the
valley.  On a day or two following our arrival, a
remarkable incident occurred.
	While President Young was walking with
several of the Apostles on the higher ground
northwest of our encampment, he suddenly 
stepped out, stuck his cane into the barren ground
and sagebrush, and exclaimed, "Right here will
stand the Temple of our God."  We had a peg
driven down, and it was nearly in the middle of 
the Temple as it stands to-day, which Temple was
bailt without any regard to the spot designated by
President Young at that time.
	On the 26th, we went to the top of a high point 
on the north of the city, which President Young
named "Ensign Peak."  We also visited the Hot
and Warm Springs.  On the 27th we drove to the
West Mountains and visited the Salt Lake, Presi-
dent Young being the first to dip his hand into the
briny water.  We walked dryshod to the Black
Rock and took a bath in the Lake.  Afterwards
preparations were made for laying out the city,
and I, with other brethren, assisted President 
Young in laying out the ground and streets with
chain and compass.  We laid out a block of ten
acres upon which to build a Temple, and city lots
of one acre and a quarter, and streets eight rods
wide, all of which has been published by his-
torians.
	President Young left Winter Quarters on the 
seventh day of April, accompanied by seven other
Apostles and other men, all told 143 men and 3
women.  The Apostles were, Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball, W.  Woodruff, George A.
Smith, Willard Richards, Orson Pratt, Amasa
Lyman and Ezra T.  Benson.  John Taylor and
Parley P. Pratt arrived soon after, leading com-
panies of families.  Orson Hyde remained in
Kanesville.  We traveled the first 500 miles with-
out any grass.  With the exception of a little
grain we fed our animals, they lived entirely on
the bark of cottonwood limbs and saplings,
which they gnawed from the trees, we would lay
before them for their night's meal.  This company
of 145 men traveləd 1030 miles, making their roads
and building their bridges.  In one instance we
had to form a guard of a wedge shape for three
days and nights to keep our company from being
trampled to death by an enormous herd of buffalo,
that had gathered from the mountains and were
migrating in a solid body to the plains below.
The herd was judged to be sixty miles in length,
and numbered not less than one million.   They
were traveling east and we were traveling west.
We were three days passing through the herd, and 
we all breathed freer when we were clear of them.
No other class of men will ever witness the same
scene again upon the face of the earth.  Brother
Wm. C. A. Smoot, sen., got his horses loose and
mixed with the herd, and it was with great difficulty
we obtained them again.
	Notwithstanding our first care was to secure an
abiding place, a home for the people, we did not
lose sight of other important matters. President
Young contemplated at that early day the building
[column 3]
of a railroad across the continent, and we marked 
out the route which we thought the national road
would take to unite the Atlantic and Pacific
oceans.
	Brothers Orson Pratt and Erastus Snow entered
the valley two or three days before the body of
pioneers, but where are those men to-day, and
where is President Brigham Young and the
Apostles who accompanied him? All are in the
spirit world mingling with the martyred Prophets,
where they can plead for their brethren.   Not
one of them living to-day, except myself, and but
few of the pioneers remain.  We have buried a
whole quorum of Twelve Apostles since we en-
tered these valleys of the mountains.  The rem-
nant of Zion's Camp, Mormon Battalion and the
Pioneers number but very few to-day.  Those of
us who remain will soon pass away, but our pos-
terity live and are numbered in the Primaries, the
Sabbath Schools and the Mutual Improvement
Associations, and are this day assembled in this
great Tabernacle to celebrate the arrival of the
Pioneers into this great American Desert, which 
today, through the blessing of God and the labor
of the Pioneers, is blossoming as the rose.
	This company of pioneers spent about a month
in this valley, during which period we erected
what is known as the Old Fort, surrounding three
sides of a ten acre block, with an adobe wall
about ten feet high on the outside, and the east
side with log cabins.  We also arranged for this 
fort to have four entrances, one on each point of
the compass.
	Most of the Pioneers returned to Winter Quar-
ters, where they arrived in the fall, making a
journey of over two thousand miles, besides the
labors performed while here in building a fort,
laying out the city and exploring adjacent valleys.
	I wish to say a few words to the members of the
Sabbath Schools and to all who are assembled in
this Tabernacle to-day to celebrate the arrival of
the Pioneers into this valley.  It is not wisdom
for me to occupy your time with a long address
upon an occasion of this kind, but I have referred
to a few incidents of our peculiar journey into
this barren desert, that you may keep in mind the
toil, the care and the hardships which your
fathers endured in laying the foundation of the
Zion of our God, which is to be established in the
mountains of Israel, in fulfilment of the blessing
of the old Patriarch Jacob pronounced upon his
posterity that should be fulfilled in the valleys of
the everlasting hills in the latter-days.  And upon
the heads of the rising generation of the Latter-
day Saints rests the responsibility of building up
the kingdom of God upon the foundations which
their fathers have laid.  And also of building up
a State in which shall dwell virtue, temperance,
industry, frugality and honesty; a State which will
do honor to the American government, where
wholesome laws shall be administered in equity
and justice to all of its citizens, according to the
letter and spirit of the Constitution given by in-
spiration of Almighty God to our forefathers.
	I feel to say to our children, Honor your father 
and your mother and your God, that your days
may be long and prosperous in these valleys of
the mountains which the Lord your God has given
unto you.
	That God may bless you all, and enable you to
fulfill the object of your creation here on the
earth to the satisfaction of yourselves and your
Creator, is the earnest desire of your friend and
brother,
					WILFORD WOODRUFF.
	Elder C. R. Savage made some remarks about
the plow that turned the first sod in Utah, and
that Elder Wm. Carter, now in the Penitentiary 
for conscience' sake, was the man who turned the
first sod.  He then read a brief letter from Bro.
Carter, which stated, "The plow has a place in the
Museum."  The speaker displayed the remains of
the plowshare, and also the old flag which was


lifted up on the mountains (Ensign Peak), as the
ensign of American liberty, by the pioneers.
Rounds of applause from the vast audience fol-
lowed. Bishop Millen Atwood, Bishop Jacob
Weiler, Patriarch Lorenzo D. Young, of the
pioneers, each made appropriate remarks.
	Bro. Young in his address said: “I want to re-
hearse to you a sentiment that was expressed to
to me by my wife, Harriet, who was with me, and
was one of three pioneer women, and other two
being Ellen Sanders Kimball and Clara Decker
Young, the latter of whom occupies a seat on this
stand to-day. My wife, looking over the valley—
there was no green thing for the eye to feed upon,
except about a half-dozen old cottonwood trees,
which grew near where the Methodist Church
now stands—turning to me she said: ‘Well, father,
(she was in the habit of thus addressing me) we
have traveled more than twelve hundred miles to
find a resting place, and as feeble as I am, I'm
willing to travel a thousand miles further, if we
could only find a place worth looking at, for it
seems to me no white people can live here.” Bro.
Young had been telling the people how desolate
this valley appeared when the pioneers came in;
“a valley of dry sunflowers, well stocked with
black crickets.”
	Sister Julia A. Silverwood sang:
"O Saints, have you seen, o'er yon mountain's proud
	height."

Chorus by the Tabernacle Choir.
	The Sunday School children sang:
			"Beautiful Zion, built above."

	Elder Geo. Goddard then read a letter from
Elder Richard Ballantyne, who started the first
Sunday School in Utah, in 1849.
	“Hail Columbia,” by the Silver Band. A. W.
Beach was called, and stood before the audience
while it was explained that he was the first child
born in Utah, in the Old Fort, Salt Lake City,
27th of October, 1857. He resides now at Ameri-
can Falls, Idaho. 
	Elder B. F. Cummings, jr., then read a letter
from the General Supt. of Deseret S. S. Union,
Prest. Geo. Q. Cannon. It was addressed to the
Superintendents, Teachers and Children of the
Sunday Schools, and contained much instruction
and many truths beautifully told.
	McIntyre’s Glee Club then sang, “The Soldier’s
Chorus.
	Then there was a stirring speech by Apostle
John Henry Smith, after which Sister Agnes
Olsen Thomas sang, in her own sweet style,
‘Thy Return."
	Bro. Moroni Thomas rendered in an excellent
voice, the anthem, “Ye shall dwell in the Land."
	An interesting speech from Apostle Heber J.
Grant. Bro. Goddard paid an appropriate com-
pliment to Bro. Joseph H. Ridges, who built the
Tabernacle Organ, and the S. S. children sang:
	"The youth of each land for their father-land stand."
	Prest. Angus M. Cannon paid a beautiful tribute
to the labors of the pioneers, and blest the
pioneers, the Saints and the pure in this and all
other lands. The immense audience rose, and
the benediction was pronounced by President A.
M. Cannon.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

     WE are very grateful to Mrs. Betsy C. Glover, 
Mrs. Mary Gunderson and Miss Jennie Cowan for
handsome bouquets, fragrant with sweetness, to 
beautify the editorial rooms of the EXPONENT;
also to Mrs. Mary Grey for a basket of delicious 
ripe, red cherries.

	WE have on hand for publication reports of
sisters' conferences of Davis and Tooele Stakes, 
also minutes of P. A. Conference S. L. Stake, 
and of annual meetings of P. A. Providence,


Millville and Richmond, and two letters of Cor-
respondence, one from Millard Stake and one
from Snowflake.  These we expect to use, though
they may be somewhat condensed. 
	WE acknowledge the courtesy of a Circular of
the Salt Lake Stake Academy, for the third
Academic Year, 1888-89.  We were very pleased
to notice in the list of "The Faculty" the name of
a lady teacher—Dr. Mattie P. Hughes, Lady
Superintendent.  We intend making a lengthy
notice of this home educational academy.
	WE have received, by courtesy of the Principal, 
Dr. J. R. Park, the "Annual of the University of
Deseret," 18 8889.  It contains an excellent en-
graving of the new University Building, and gives
one a good idea of the grounds and surroundings. 
We shall be pleased to make a more extended
notice of the Annual in our next issue, Aug. 15th. 
We hope, also, to make a suitable notice of the
Deaf and Dumb Department of this valuable insti-
tution of learning.


[Column 1]

MEMORIAL ANNIVERSARY.

REPORT OF THE RELIEF SOICETY MEETING,
	HELD IN THE OGDEN TABERNACLE, JULY
	19TH, 1888, IN COMMEMORATION OF THE
	LAST PUBLIC VISIT AND INSTRUCTIONS OF
	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG, ON INVITA-
	TION OF PRESIDENT JANE S. RICHARDS, TO
	THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND YOUNG LADIES'
	IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS OF THE 
	WEBER STAKE OF ZION, JUST ELEVEN 
	YEARS AGO THE 19TH INST.

(REPORTED BY JOHN M. WHITTAKER.)

	Of those present were President Jane S. Rich-
ards and her Counselors, Mrs. Hattie C. Brown
and Emily Shurtliff, of the Weber Stake Relief
Society, and President Sarah Herrick of Y. L. M.
I. A. of Weber Stake.

VISITING PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY,

	Mary A. Hyde, Prest. of Sanpete Stake; Har-
riet Snow, Prest, of Box Elder Stake; Olivia
Widerborg, Counselor; Sarah S. Richards, Gen-
tile Valley, Idaho; Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith,
17th Ward, S. L. City; Rachel Grant, 13th Ward,
S. L. City.

Y. L. M. I. A.

	Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, Prest. Central Board;
Mattie H. Tingey, Counselor; Minnie Snow,
Prest. Box Elder Stake; Mary A. Freeze, of Salt
Lake Stake.
	Other Officers, R. S. and Y. L.: Presendia L. Kim-
ball, Helen M. Whitney, Sarah J. Cannon, Maria W.
Wilcox, Mary A. Richards, Dr. E. S. Barney,
Lydia Ann Wells, Sarah Dunford, Phebe Y.
Beattie, Emily S. Richards, Lydia Alder, Adella
W. Eardley, Dr. Romania B. Pratt, and Emmeline
B. Wells, Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VISITING BRETHREN.

	Apostles Franklin D. Richards and Heber J
Grant, Lewis W. Shurtliff, Prest. Weber Stake,
President Angus M. Cannon, of Salt Lake Stake,
Samuel W. Richards, Dr. Edward Isaacson, and
several other Presidents and Bishops, and a num-
ber of visitors from Salt Lake and other parts.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards called the meeting to
order, and the  congregation joined in singing,
"How firm a foundation." Prayer was offered by
Bishop Robert McQuarrie. Continued by singing,
"Come all ye sons of Zion."
	Sister Jane S. Richards, Prest. of the Relief So-
ciety of Weber Stake, then said:
	My beloved sisters, I feel as though I could
speak for you all to-day, when I say that we have
come here with the full intention of having a good
time. I hope so, I trust we have; and I think

[Column 2]

that if we have brought that desire with us strong
enough, the same inspiration that appointed this
meeting, we shall have a good time, and the Spirit
of the Lord will be with us. This is my greatest
desire.
	We have been honored with a number of our
friends from the city, who have come up, even
more than I expected. That shows that they
think something of us. It seems something like
uniting Salt Lake and Weber County together,
and that is just what we want to do—to increase
our union. I feel very grateful to all the brethren
and sisters who have come up hither. They are
nearly all our friends and intimate acquaintances,
and I trust we shall have a good time.
	Of course, everything is plain and sim-
ple with us here. Our talk is simple and small,
and sometimes we have a very good time in talk-
ing these simple things that we have to live
through in life, day by day. Our work is made
up of almost everything small. We are here to
commemorate the day when President Brigham
Young preached his last sermon in Weber County;
and when I think of the good instructions he then
gave, I wonder how much of them we have carried
in our lives? I ask myself this question very
frequently, and I find that I do not carry out as
much as I ought to; but one thing I do, I try to
do better to-day than I did yesterday, and my de-
sires are good. Indeed, I know my Counselors,
the presidents and sisters of this Stake, endeavor
to carry out all the instructions the Priesthood
gives us at all times.
	I am pleased we have two of the Apostles and
President A. M. Cannon from Salt Lake, and
other of the brethren and sisters who have had a
great experience in this Church, and who under-
stand what they have to go through with. And we
feel pleased to-day to make them WELCOME here
in our midst, and will listen to their instructions
I must say that from the day that our beloved
President Young gave the instructions here from
this stand about our holding meetings quarterly,
they have increased and done a great deal of good.
Still there are some who will say, "I do not know
how to get to meeting to-day. I can't leave the
family very well. I don't know how I can leave."
But those who have made the effort and have gone
to those meetings have said that it made them feel
much better.  It encouraged them. And after I
have spoken they have said, "You have spoken
my mind exactly, better than I could have done it
myself." It was a difficult thing to get the sisters
started. We now enjoy our meetings together
much better.
	We are going to have a portion of President
Young's sermon, which he delivered eleven years
ago, read to-day; the counsel therein contained
is wise and fatherly. I know it is almost impossi-
ble to do exactly right; but we are trying to do it
from time to time. We are trying to do what we
are told by the President and authorities. In the
past we had Sister Eliza, who was kind enough to
come often and counsel us and direct our labors. We
have listened to her instructions from time to time,
and have taken pleasure in following her advice.
We have thought when Sister Eliza was here
everything would go right. She has visited with
me throughout this County since these quarterly
meetings have been inaugurated. President Tay-
lor has been here, and we have been blessed.
President Woodruff, and Brothers Cannon and
Smith would be here to day if they could. Their
hearts are here with us, and their sympathies are
with us, and we would be glad to have them here
if circumstances were favorable, but they are pre-
vented from mingling in our society to-day.
	Now, for a long time we have missed Sister
Eliza, and she is gone beyond this life. But we
have another President to take her place, one who
has traveled shoulder to shoulder throughout this
territory with Sister Eliza, and it would have been
a great pleasure to have had her here with us on


[Column 1]

this occasion. But she is not in the territory now,
or she would be here to-day. I know her heart is
here, and if I could postpone the 19th day of July
until Sister Zina could come, I should be pleased.
But I cannot do it. We should pray for Sister
Zina where she is. And I pray the Lord to hasten
the time that she may be in our midst, traveling
around among the sisters, comforting them as
heretofore, and as Sister Eliza R. S. Smith has
done.
	Sisters, I don't feel that it is permissible for me
to take up the time to-day. I am thankful to see you
here. I am thankful that during this busy time, when
you say it is this and it is that which requires my
time, when harvest is at hand, and with the exer-
cise of everything in its turn, I am glad, I say,
that you have had time to meet together.
	I can speak with pride of the sisters of Weber
County. I have never asked them to do one
single thing and have been refused. They have
been more than willing to do everything that was
required of them. And this makes me feel happy.
I have always had my requests honored; and for
this I thank you here to-day.
	May God bless us, that we may have a good time
I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.

PRESIDENT L. W. SHURTLIFF. 

	My beloved sisters: I presume you all feel thank-
ful to have the opportunity of meeting together to
commemorate this day. I have thought of it a
good many times with pleasure and pride that it
fell to the sisters of Weber County to have the
Quarterly Conferences inaugarated here by Presi-
dent Brigham Young, when he came and talked to
the sisters of this Stake at that time, as Sister
Richards, your President, has said, we could not
see the good that would result from this organiza-
tion of the Stake, and also the Young Ladies'
Improvement Association.
	I believe that there is no sister or brother in
this Stake of Zion, especially those who have rest-
ing upon them responsibility, and who are inter-
ested in the work of the Lord, but can say there
is no organization, except the Priesthood, that
has been a greater blessing to this County than
has the Relief Society—in many ways: And I
have to mention here this morming, that I am
thankful to see the people out here. I see repre-
sentatives from every settlement in this County.
I see representative women, I believe, of all the
branches in this Stake. I also see some of the
brethren from various parts of this Stake. I am
glad to see Sister Richards and her Counselors,
and so many of the brethren and sisters—visitors
from Salt Lake—two. Apostles and President Can-
non. I feel to welcome you all here to-day, and I
trust we may hear many good things from those
who have come to address us. God bless you,
and the brethren and sisters who shall address us
here to-day, and may He inspire them with the
Spirit of the Lord, that we may be fed, bleesed
and benefitted in this Stake of Zion, is my prayer.
Amen.

PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS.

	Being requested, I will read a few sentences or
a paragraph or two from President Young's ser-
mon, which he delivered, standing where I do
now, just eleven years ago to day; and a good
many who are here to-day will, doubtless, remem-
ber what he then said as I read them. It will be
remembered that on that occasion the house was
well filled with the Relief Societies, the Young
Ladies' Socities, then called Retrenchment So-
cieties, and brethren and sisters. Elder Richards
then read as follows:
	(Taken from the 19th Vol. Journal of Discourses,
Page 66.)
	"The People called Latter-day Saints say they
wish to know and understand how to order their
lives before Him whom we serve and acknowledge
as our Father and our God. If I were to give

[Column 2]

you my own feelings with regard to instructions,
many of you would perhaps consider it egotism;
still, I take the liberty of saying to these my sis-
ters, if the counsel and instruction that your un-
worthy servant has given to the inhabitants of the
earth had been obeyed and carried out, I have
taught them enough to have saved the nations of
the earth, and to have made every one of them to
be Latter-day Saints.
	"We are, professedly, Saints. What is the differ-
ence between a Saint of God and an angel of
God? One is clothed upon with mortality, the
other has passed through mortality and has re-
ceived the celestial glory of our Heavenly Father,
and is free from contaminating influences of sin
that we have to contend with. This is the differ-
ence. We ask the question, can mortal beings
live so they are worthy of the society of angels?
I answer the question for myself— I believe that
they can; I am sure that they can. But in doing
this, they must subdue the sin that is within them-
selves, correct every influence that arises within
their own hearts that is opposed to the sanctify-
ing influences of the grace of God, and purify
themselves by their faith and by their conduct, so
that they are worthy. Then they are prepared for
the society of angels. To be Saints indeed, re-
quires every wrong influence that is within them,
as individuals, to be subdued, until every evil de-
sire is eradicated, and every feeling of their hearts
is brought into entire subjection to the will of
Christ. Now you all believe this just as much as
I do.	*	*	*	*	*	*
	"Here are mothers. Who give the key to the na-
tions of the earth with regard to their feelings,
pride, prejudices; their religion, habits and cus-
toms, and, I may say, who, in a great degree, gov-
ern, that lay the foundation for the ability that is
exhibited among the nations of men? It is the
mothers. Who have laid the foundations in the
hearts of the children to prepare them to be great
and good men? It is not the fathers—it is the
mothers. It is like the saying of the Savior with
regard to the poor. Speaking to His Disciples He
says: 'For the poor always have ye with you,
but me ye have not always.' Now, the children
are always with the mother, and the mother is al-
ways with the children, but the father they have
not. He is in the field at his work; and the
 mother is all the time making impressions upon
the minds of the children. Permit me here to say,
mothers, and my sisters, you who are young, it
will do you good if you will observe it. You see,
hear and witness a good deal of contention among
 children—some of you do, if not all, and I will
give you a few words in regard to your future lives,
that you may have children that are not conten-
tious, not quarrelsome. Always be good-natured
yourselves, is the first step. Never allow your-
selves to become out of temper and get fretful.
'Why,' mothers say, 'this is a very mischievous
little boy or little girl.' What do you see? That
amount of vitality in those little children that they
cannot keep still. If they cannot do anything else
they will trip over the chair, cut up and pull away
at anything to raise a row. They are so full of
life that they cannot contain themselves; and they
are something like ourselves—boys. They have
so much vitality in them that their bones fairly
ache with strength. They have such an amount
of vitality—life, strength and activity, that they
must dispose of it, and the young ones will con-
tend with each other. Do not be out of temper
youselves. Always sympathize with them and
soothe them. Be mild and pleasant. If you see
a child with knives and forks, playing with them,
it might put out its eyes. It will not do to give it
a hammer and a looking glass. What will you do?
I am a person of experience, and know how to
deal with children. If the child has in its hand
that which it should not have, let the mother or
the father, or whoever has charge of the child or
has the right, take such things from it, and put 

[Column 3]

them away where they belong. Now, mothers,
listen to this—Never ask a child to give up that
which it should not have. Step up kindly and
put the article where it belongs. The child will
not say anything. A little circumstance took
place in Salt Lake City. I had business in a
house where I had understood there had been
considerable trouble occasionally; and the mother
would not let the father speak to the children, to
chastise them. I went into the house and talked
to the man. The lady came in and sat down. I
pretty soon saw a little girl, about two years old,
with a thimble in her mouth, sucking it. I went
up to the little girl, took the thimble from her and
put it on the mantle shelf. Says I to the mother,
'You must not allow the child to have this thing;
if it should go into the stomach it will decay.' The
man looked at me as if he would faint away. He
was a large man, but I suppose he never attempted
to say such a thing to his wife in his life. I said
it; and the mother was so confounded that she did
not say a word; and it would not have done her
any good if she had. Now, if you will mind this,
you bring up your children correctly, and teach
them those principles and habits that are correct,
and you will find that you will improve very ma-
terially in your families. If you find that your
children are cruel, do not contend with them,
soothe them, and invite those who, through acci-
dent, have injured a little sister, to pity her. 'You
have accidentally hurt your little sister, go and
kiss her.' By taking this course, you will have
good children, and they will not contend with each
other. I am talking to you of that which I know.
I have had an experience in these matters.
	I will relate a little incident that occurred in my
own family. a little boy, about three and a half
years old, was very ill. His mother would feed
him bread and milk, or whatever he wished. As
soon as he could stand by her, every day he
wanted his bread and milk. Just as soon as he
had got what he wanted, he would throw up his
hands, and away went the basin to the floor. His
mother did not know what to do. Said I, 'If you
will do just as I tell you, I will tell you what to do.
The next time you sit down to feed this little boy,
when he has got through he will knock the dish
out of your hand.' Said I, 'Lean him against a
chair, do not say one word to him, go to your
work, pay no attention to him whatever.' She did
so. The little fellow stood there and looked at
her, watched her; and then he looked at the basin
and the spoon, watch his mother and look at the
basin and spoon again. By and by he got down
and crept along the floor and climbed up to the
chair, and then set the basin on the table, and
crept until he got the spoon and put it on the
table. He never tried to knock that dish out of
her hand again. Now, she might have whipped
him and injured him, as a great many others would
have done; but if they know what to do, they can
 correct the child without violence.
	"One of the nicest things in the world is to let an
enemy alone entirely, and it mortifies him to death.
If your neighbors talk about you, and you think
that they do wrong in speaking evil of you, do not
let them know you ever heard a word, and con-
duct yourselves as if they always did right, and it
will mortify them and they will say, 'We'll not try
this game any longer.' I have seen men, and
women also, that are never happy until they are
miserable, and never easy until they are in pain.
	"These are little things; but is not the world
made up of little things? The whole earth is
made up of small atoms of sand. Our lives are
made up of little simple circumstances, that
amount to a great deal when brought together,
and sum up the whole life of the man or woman;
and yet, in our passing from one to another, our
little acts and incidents seem to be very minute or
simple, but we find that they amount to a great
deal.
	"Now, sisters, will you learn these things? I


want to see the children of this people grow up as 
they should; and I want to go a little farther with
regard to your clildren.  Commence, mothers, 
just as quick as the child is old enough to under-
stand, which is quite young.  They observe the
acts and doings of the mother, and whoever is
present.  From these acts they imbibe their first
impressions.  Now, mothers, do you want your
children to be Saints?  Do you want your sons and
daughters to be  good and great, and their lives
filled up with usefulness?  'Certainly, with all my
heart.'  Then lay that foundation for future life by
teaching each little child what it should do. 
Teach that child honesty, uprightness and truth-
fulness.  Never permit a falsehood to be told, nor
the color of a falsehood, without correction. 
Train that child by your own acts and words, 
from its infancy, so it may imbibe the principle in
its own heart to be perfectly honest.  Teach that 
child to believe  in God our Heavenly Father. 
Teach it to believe, to have confidence in Him. 
	"Why, He is the author of your lives.  Here
are your father and mother with regard to your
natural body.  As soon as they can understand
anything at all, teach them--'Yes, my little child, 
but you have a spirit within you.  Were it not for 
this spirit, you would not have life in you.  Here
are the father and mother of your tabernacle;  but
you have a spirit in you, and the father of that
spirit is your Heavenly Father, whom we serve as
our God.  You must have implicit confidence in
this Being.  You must depend upon Him always. 
If you are in danger in the least, you must believe
in God and ask God to rescue you, to preserve 
you; and your faith must be in the name of Him
that He has given, whom He calls His only Be-
gotton Son, to die a ransom for our sins."  And
as soon as they can understand, teach them with
regard to the original sin.  Teach them to have
implicit confidence in the Father through our
Lord Jesus Christ; and every time they need wis-
dom, to ask for wisdom, and ask for understand-
ing; and every time they are in trouble, ask our
Heavenly Father to give them comfort, and they
will feel joyous instead of grievous, and will feel
a buoyant feeling instead of being cast down. 
Teach the childrea to pray, that when they are
large enough to go into the field with their father
they may have faith that if they are in danger
they will be protected.  Teach them that those
good angels that are ministering spirits, and their
angels, to guard and defend the just and pure
watch over them continually.  And teach them, I am
sorry to say there are not many mothers who do
teach it, that they may grow up with this under-
standing, that our Heavenly Father takes cogniz-
ance of all our acts and doings, and of us, as in-
dividuals, and that His eye is over us, and there
is not so much as a hair of our heads falls to the
ground without the notice of our Heavenly Father. 
Teach them these things and they will grow up
into this habit.  You may call it tradition, but it
is an excellent one.  You can sow the seeds of
infidelity and they will grow there.  Teach the
children so that when they go out from the pres-
ence of their father and mother, God is in all
their thoughts.  Can you come to this under-
standing, mothers?  If I were talking to the
brethren, I shold say no man in this church has
the right or privilege to enter business, or go at
anything without having God in his thoughts, and
asking for guidance and direction in all his ways. 
And I will say to the mothers and sisters, now
give your children this correct tradition in their 
youth.  As I was talking to one of my wives she
said:" Who is there that teaches her children
these things?"  I turned to one and said: "There 
is one of my wives;  she has children full of faith, 
because she made it her business to teach them
the tradition to believe in God the Father, to call
upon Him continually;  and God was in their
thoughts from morning until evening, all the time
they were awake says I."  There is the woman;

[column 2]
she has taught her children."  Now, I know that
mothers can teach their children;  and they ought
to teach them, and this is my duty to tell you what
to do in this case.  Remember to traditionate your
children in the nurture and admonition of the 
Lord.  Teach them as they ought to be taught, 
and they will have faith from their youth up, and
the Spirit of the Lord to direct them, that they
may never lose sight of this faith in Christ, and
our Heavenly Father, and when they are old they
will not depart from the good path.  I am firm in
the faith and verily believe, that if mothers will
bring up their children aright, and give them that
early training that they should have, their children
will grow up and never depart from the path of
rectitude and truth. 
	The mothers are the moving instruments in the
hands of Providence to guide the destinies of na-
tions.  Let the mothers of any nation teach their 
children not to make war, the children will grow
up and never enter into it.  Let the mothers teach
their children, "War upon your enemies, yes, war
to the hilt!"  and they will be filled with this spirit. 
Consequently, you see at once what I wish to im-
press upon your mind is, that the mothers are the
machinery that give zest to the whole man, and 
guide the destinies and lives of men upon the
earth."
			To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.				

﻿


ANTI-MORMON BOOK.

MRS. E. B. WELLS,
	DEAR FRIEND:—I have read "Esther, the Gen-
tile,"  Money could never tempt me to write such
a book.  Such a weak plot, so poorly written, like
a cheap novel.  It does not represent anything
that ever could have happened among the Saints. 
I will never say again that "truth is stranger than
fiction," for in this case fiction is such a nondescript
that one can't imagine what it is intended to re-
present.  It comes as near the mark as a lie I once 
read about Apostle Jones of the Mormon Church
marrying a Chinese woman, so as to have a com.
plete collection of nationalities in his family.
Next!
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	South Bountiful, July 22nd, 1888.


APPRECIATION.

OFFICE OF THE EXPONENT:
	DEAR LADIES:—I have been very much grati-
fied with the literary attainments and pleasant tone
of the editorials in your paper.  I have certainly
a very different idea of the trials and struggles of
the Mormon Pioneers, from what I have had be-
fore.  I wanted to know the standing of the
women rights' advocates, among your people, and
I have been gratified indeed.
	I wish that I might help many who do not believe
in their good faith to feel differently, although I
could not myself believe in the Book of Mormon;
but the noble, loving hearts, whose self-surrender
is unknown, appeal to my sympathies.
						MRS. A. CLARK.
	Nantucket, R. I.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		HYDE PARK P. A.

     The anniversary of the Primary Association
of Hyde Park Ward, was held July 9th, 1888.
There were present Stake President Jane E.
Molen, her acting Counselor, Emma Pike, act-
ing Bishop, Suel Lamb, and others.  Prest.
Amelia Kirby presided.  The children sang,
“Dare and Do.” Prayer by Elder Wm. M.
Daines.  Singing, “Youthful Sonnet.” Minutes
of July 9th, 1887, and statistical and financial
reports were read and accepted.

[column 2]
     A good programme was rendered by the
children; after which Stake Prest. Jane E.
Molen spoke to them on prayer and the princi-
ples of the Gospel.  Said the work Sister Eliza
R. Snow Smith had organized should be
carried on.
     Coun. Emma Pike was pleased with the way
the children had said their parts.  Exhorted
all to be prayerful and orderly while in meet-
ing.
     Bishop Lamb spoke about the persecution of
the Saints; said, “You are preparing yourselves
to help bear off the kingdom of God.  Try
and shun the powers of darkness, and try and
repay our sisters for what they are doing for
you by obeying their counsel, and trying to be
good children.”
The following named persons were sustained
as officers of the Association:  Amelia Kirby,
President: Johannah M. Peterson and Harriet
Woolf, Counselors; Myra Lamb and Phebe
Thurston, Assistant Counselors; Lydia Daines,
Secretary; May Daines, Assistant Secretary;
Florence Woolf; Treasurer.
     Elders Wm. M. Daines and Thos. Duce each
made encouraging remarks.
     Prest. Amelia Kirby and Harriet Woolf
each felt pleased with the meeting, and de-
sired to go on and do all the good they could.
Thanked the brethren and sisters for coming 
in to visit us.
     The children sang, “Some Place For Me.”
Benediction pronounced by Jane E. Molen.
				LYDIA DAINES, Sec.

BOX ELDER STAKE.	
     The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle on the 12th of June, 1888, Prest.
H. A. Snow presiding.  Singing, “Great God;
attend while Zion sings.” Prayer by Prest. H.
A. Snow.  Annie Wixom acted as secretary
pro tem.  Roll called.  Minutes read and
accepted.
     Prest. Snow: “It is important that we should
comprehend our duties, that we may be a
mighty band in Zion.  If the members and
officers attend to their duties we become so
much stronger and capable to stand steadfast
and firm in the faith in the various scenes in
our lives.  The growth and management of
the Relief Society devolves on every one of
us.”
     Prest. Jane Peery, Three Mile Creek, Prest.
M. A. Hubbard, Willard, Prest. Harriet Hun-
saker, Honeyville, Coun. Jensen, Mantua,
and Prest. Harper each made excellent re-
marks, and spoke interestingly of her duties.
     Coun. Olivia Widerborg made closing re-
marks in a very wise and motherly manner.
     Singing, “How firm a foundation,” etc.
Benediction by Harriet Hunsaker.
     Afternoon session:  Singing, “O God, our
help in ages past.” Prayer by Prest. Samuel
Smith.  Singing.
     Prest. Susannah P. Booth, Coun. Robins,
Snowville, Prest. Mary Jensen, Sister Jenson
and Prest. Watkins each spoke intelligently of
the work in which she was engaged.  Emilia
D. Madsen spoke next.
     Prest. Rudger Clawson: “The Lord says He
will help those who help themselves.  My sym-
pathy is with the sisters.” Spoke of the crea-
tion. woman was necessary.  "The Lord says,
'Man is not without the woman, nor woman
without the man.’ Although our efforts may
seem small, as though we did not accomplish
much, still, if we give our whole heart to the
Lord, He will bless us and our progress is
sure.”
Bishop Tingy, Prest. S. Smith, Coun. Adolph
Madsen, Sister  Esther Goodliff, and Coun.
Charles Kelley each made timely and sugges-
tive remarks.
Prest. Snow spoke of the labor of the secre-


taries.  "They are the historians of our
branch."
	Singing, "Now let us rejoice," etc.  Benedic-
tion by Patriarch Box.
			ANNIE WIXOM, Sec. pro tem.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society Conference of
Maricopa Stake, held at the Bowery, Mesa
City June 21st, 1888, Elizabeth G. McDonald
presiding.  The different branches of the So-
ciety were well represented; there were a num-
ber of the brethren also present.  After the
usual preliminaries of singing and prayer, the
roll was called, and minutes of previous con-
ference read and approved.
	Prest. McDonald expressed her pleasure at
again meeting in the capacity of a conference.
Desired the faith and prayers of the Saints,
that we might pass the time profitably while
together.  There were but few of us, but sup-
posed it was owing to the sickness prevailing
in our midst.  Had visited the different branches
since our last conference, and found a good
spirit prevailing.
	Presidents of the branch societies then gave
verbal reports, showing an increased zeal and 
faithfulness of the few working bees of the 
hive.  Some were always making promises of
their good intentions, attending meetings, etc.,
but scarcely ever came; while another class
were perfectly indifferent, whether the Relief
Society lived or died, as far as their help was
concerned, but upon the whole the reports were
quite favorable.
	Coun. Sarah E. Russell felt there were many 
subjects to speak upon, she scarcely knew what
to say.  Made reference to the great amount of
sickness in our midst.  "Reference has been
made to the necessity of fasting and prayer,
that the Lord would rebuke the destroyer.
Perhaps this was a judgment upon us for our
slackness in regard to our duties"  Had re-
ceived great comfort from the visits of the
teachers.
	Coun. Morris said, "Let us go to the Lord
for strength to carry us through our trials.
Felt to respond cheerfully to every call made
upon her.
	Prest. Charles I. Robson felt the importance
of the times we are living in; thought the day
was near at hand when the reign of righteous-
ness would commence upon the earth.  "How
many of us are living so that we are prepared
to cope with the power of the destroyer?"
Spoke feelingly of the spirit of infidelity which
is prevailing with our children; appealed to the
sisters to assist the brethren in checking this in
our midst.  Could trace it in a great measure
to our schools as they were taught; suggested
having schools of our own, where the princi-
ples of the Gospel could be taught.  "Our
children are our glory.  What sorrow to the 
fond parent to see his children growing up in
infidelity, without the power to check it.  Sis-
ters, visit the sick, and comfort them, speak
cheering words and administer to their wants.
The brethren, also, should exercise faith in
God, that when they are called upon to ad-
minister to the sick, they can do so with power.
Let us live so that we can lay claim to the
promises of God unto us."
	Coun. Collings Hakes said, "We must be
consistent in our course, and practice the princi-
ples we profess."	*	*	Referred
to the spirit that governs the world.  "There
is no religion in it.  Fathers and mothers
should be awake to their duties in regard to
their children.  Let us live so that the power
of the destroyer may be rebuked in the name
of Israel's God."
	Bro. Charles Allen made reference to the
words of Apostle Thatcher—that the Lord
would continue these trials until the people
forsook their evil ways.  "These trials are for
our good, and we should acknowledge His hand

[column 2]
in them.  Let us place ourselves in a proper 
position, that the Lord will hear and answer
our prayers.  Obey the commands of God,
and our faith will be strengthened, and the de-
stroyer will pass us by."  Prayed the Lord to
bless us, and give us hearts to understand our
duties.
	Bro. Martin bore testimony to the truth of
what had been said; had had many testimonies
of the truth of this work.
     Prest. E. McDonald felt that we had truly
had a feast.  Gave counsel to the sisters to
have a care in their remarks before their child-
ren, and not sow the seeds of infidelity in their 
hearts.  "Be careful how you speak of your
neighbors before them."  Asked the Lord's
blessing upon us, that we might increase in
good works.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Think gently of the erring one."
Benediction by C. I. Robson.
			SARAH M. POMEROY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MY LESSON.

	I will try to tell about a lesson I learned to-
day, in hopes it will benefit some one else, if
we only remember it.  Last night Ned and his
father had just lit the lamp in the sitting room,
and I had finished my kitchen work, and joined
them, where we three, and no more, were to
enjoy a long evening reading aloud from one
of Mrs. Holmes’ works, when some one
knocked at the front door—a man to ask if his
wife and little ones could come in and make a
bed on the floor, as it was too cold to sleep in
the wagon.  We told him he could have the
kitchen and cook-stove to use as he pleased, if
that would suit him.  He was very glad to
get any accomodation, as no one likes to have
their house littered and filled with movers,
especially when there are children.  I sup-
posed there were three or five, perhaps, but
after taking a lamp to the kitchen and throwing
a pan of chips into the stove to make a hot
fire, for it was very cold, Will threw open the
door, and in marched nine persons, where there
was room for us three if we were all good na-
tured.  I saw there was no room for the mother
with a baby in her arms, so I took her into
our room.  She began to unwrap what I took
to be a child about a year old, in very poor
health.
	I said, “Your baby is not well?”
	She replied, “This is not a baby, I have two
younger than this one; he is a little unfortunate
from spinal disease, and is eight years old.”
	I could not look any longer, for I saw that
the light was gone from his eyes and reason
had fled.  I said:
	“Oh how much better off he would be if he
could be laid away to rest forever.”
	She looked up at me surprised, and ex-
plained that those we cared for the most we
loved the most, and if there could be any differ-
ence, she would mourn for this one more than
any of the rest.  He did not suffer now, but
for two years he had screamed night and day,
except when under the influence of opiates,
and often big drops of cold sweat would drop
from his forehead.  That was all over now,
and she could love him and care for him, and
it seemed such a pleasure for her to do so, and
while she was nursing and raising others he
was her chief care; all his food had to be made
soft and put far back on his tongue, for while
he could swallow, he could not chew anything.
She wrapped him up in his blanket, and laid
him in one corner of the room, as you would
a rag doll, and went to the kitchen to prepare
supper for her husband, hired man and other
little ones.
	I shut the door, and thought of my tall,
happy boy and pleasant home, and said to my-
self, “Surely this woman’s burden is greater
than she can bear.” But her pleasant voice

[column 2]
and quick step did not sound like a burden to
any one, and when I saw her down on the
floor with her little ones, the proud, happy
look in her eyes surprised me; but I was more
surprised this morning on looking into the
wagon after they were all ready to start.  I
saw her in the centre of a feather bed, packing
her little ones around her and covering them
with bedding.  I said, “You look comfort-
able!” and she replied with one of her bright
smiles:
	"Yes, we have nothing to complain of."
	I came back to my work with those words
ringing in my ears, and the tears very close
to my eyes.  Nothing to complain of, and I,
who had almost everything, and could not find
work enough to fill my leisure hours, com-
plained every day.	
	Dear sisters, this was my lesson, and it has
done me good; may some of you apply it and
be benefitted by it as I was.—Farm and Gar-
den.							TILDA.


IN MEMORIAM.
  
     Sister Sarah Moulton, the dearly beloved wife of Thomas
Moulton, died July 7th, 1888, aged 71 years, 1 month and
7 days.  Deceased was born at Rushton, Northhampton-
shire, June 5th, 1817.  Embraced the Gospel in December,
1840, near her native place.  Her posterity, living and dead,
number 91.
     She was always a true Latter-day Saint, having crossed the
plains with the handcart company, and endured without
murmuring the trials they passed through.  She was always
at her post in the Relief Society, Primary Association and
Sunday School, giving counsel to the children of the
Saints.  Her loss is deeply regretted by all who knew her

		Weep not for me, dear friends, be still,
		I must obey my Father’s will;
		If called to leave you, do not mourn,
		Think on the day when I'll return.

		And if your love is fixed on me, 
		Think of the place where I shall be;	
		There's thrones, dominions, kingdoms there,
		Come, strive with me those joys to share,
		Sit down with Him, the Great I Am,			
		To the marriage supper of the Lamb.
				From the Heber West Ward Relief Society.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114,116, 118 East Temple Street


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 17.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1888.			NO. 6.


SHADOWS AND WHISPERINGS.

A faint, soft shadow flits across my mind,
	And thrills me with a gentle tenderness;
Wak'ning a memory only half-defined,
	A trace, perchance, of vanished happiness;
I try to call it up, but cannot tell, 
And yet 'tis something, I have known full well.

My thoughts go back to places where I've strolled,
	And gaze into the faces known in youth, 
And wander round the scenes so dear of old,
	To seek this vision out, and find its truth;
Alas, I search in vain, each much loved spot, 
It still eludes me, still I find it not. 

It often cheers me in my saddest hours,
	And if in doubt my feelings wildly stray, 
I feel most strongly then, its charmed powers, 
	Just like an angel presence round my way; 
Gently it comes, and whispers "peace be still,"
O, doubting heart, abide "the Father's will."

Oh, bliss of heaven on earth, we may not know, 
	For dusky fall the shadows of to-morrow;
Whate'er the talisman, for sin or woe, 
	Life's cup is tarnished with a silent sorrow, 
But we shall know when this poor life is past, 
The secret of the shadows that are cast. 

I sometimes think I must have lived before, 
	In a much brighter, fairer world than this;
That I have stepped from that enchanted shore,
	As though I woke from out a dream of bliss, 
Where soft hand lingered in a fond caress
Upon my head, to soothe me and to bless, 

As if a shadowing of recompense 
	Had followed me from our that home afar, 
For in my heart remains a partial sense
	Of a bright realm with golden "gates ajar,"
And through the portals of the glorious way
Perhaps there streams to earth a heavenly ray

'Tis strange these dim, mysterious shadowings, 
	Should seem to mock us, with half-confidence;
Puzzling us with their distant whisperings, 
	The music of an unknown utterance, 
That yearning, human hearts must ever feel, 
Longong for knowledge, that will all reveal. 
			E. B. Wells				E.B.W.
October 17, 1879.


[Column 1]
	SALT LAKE STAKE ACADEMY.
	A circular of the Salt Lake Stake Academy,
recently issued by the officers of the institution,
sets forth clearly the object in view in its
establishment, as also the methods and course
of instruction, and the basis and regulation of
its management, so plainly, that no one need
be misled as to its facilities and advantages.
It is now two years since the Academy was
opened, and there has been an opportunity for
those interested to understand what has been
done, and what good is likely to result in the
near future. It must be apparent to the
Latter-day Saints, that there is a necessity for
more definite religious instruction for the
children than they were formerly in the habit
of receiving; and they should certainly be as
zealous in this respect as the Roman Catholics,
who are so diligent and watchful over the little
ones entrusted to their care. Believing as
this people do, it seeing very strange that there
should be so much neglect in the religious
training of the youth of Zion. But there has
been quite an awakening on the subject, and
the outlook is hopeful, that more and better
opportunities for all, will ere long, render it

[Column 2]
easy for the children to avail themselves of
this class of instruction, which has, in the past,
been confined to a few.
	The Academy receives students of both
sexes on equal principles, and they are advised
not to procure text-books, until they ascertain
the grade to which their qualifications assign
them.
	The officers of the Stake Board of Educa-
tion, under the auspices of which the Academy
is founded, are: Angus M. Cannon, President;
W. B. Dougall, Secretary; John Nicholson,
Elias Morris, James Watson, Francis Cope,
and W. A. Rossiter, Treasurer.
	The Faculty: James E. Talmage, Principal,
Academic Department, Natural and Physical
Science and Phonography; Willard Done,
Intermediate Department, Elocution and Pen-
manship; Joseph Nelson, Preparatory Depart-
ment and Mathematics; Willard Croxall, As-
sistant; Dr. Mattie P. Hughes, Lady Superin-
tendent. 
	The circular gives quite explicit information
regarding what is taught, what books are to
be used, and so forth. The exercises of the
day, both at the opening and closing, will be
with singing and prayer. Discipline in refer-
ence to conduct will be such as no one can ob-
ject to. "Profanity and obscenity in any form
is strictly forbidden;" "the use of tobacco and
strong drink is not allowed,” and there are
other positive regulations similar in character
and spirit. The girls will be under the special
charge of the lady superintendent. 
	There will be, in connection with the school,
what is called “The Field Club,” composed of
students of the scientific classes and others who
will visit places of importance for practical
study, make excursions, and so forth. “The
Student's Society” will be another organiza-
tion to afford an acquaintance with parliamen-
tary usages, and for practice in public exercises.
Officers will comprise a Chairman, a Secretary
and a Recording Secretary, to be chosen from
the students of the Academic Department.
Evening meetings held weekly, lectures, and
musical and literary exercises given. The
Latter-day  Saints will, without doubt, use
their best endeavors to maintain and sustain a
school of learning such as this Academy must
be if the intentions are carried out in the let-
ter and spirit thereof.  
	Such institutions in Zion will assuredly
check the growth of that tendency to infidelity,
that seems to have settled like a cloud over
the minds of many, who have been striving
for knowledge, without first becoming rooted
and grounded in the faith of the Gospel of
Jesus Christ.
	The Brigham Young Academy at Provo,
and the Brigham Young College at Logan
were founded upon the same principles as this,
viz.: that the doctrines and principles of the
Church should be taught as the foundation of
all science, all knowledge and all truth, in-
stead of, as in the institutions of learning
 generally, everything else first and religion
secondary. When schools of this kind shall be
established in every Stake of Zion, the people
may look forward to a radical change for the
better in other respects.
 	The Executive Committee of the Stake
Board of Education consists of Angus M. Can-
non, W. B. Dougall and W. A. Rossiter.
	The Academy will commence its first term
in the Social Hall in this city, September 3rd,
1888.—ED.


TO ONE FAR AWAY.

DEAR HOMESPUN:
	I have been looking in vain the last few
weeks for something from you in your distant
home. Many times, while enjoying your vivid
pen pictures of sea, sky and land, I have felt
the impulse to write and thank you for the
pleasure your words were giving me; but press-
ing duties, procrastination and other excuses
have delayed my oft-repeated determination. 
But now that your pen has been idle for some
time, I have thought much of you, and shall
address you a few lines through our brave little
EXPONENT.
	You may wonder if we at home imagine you
have nought else to do in that lazy, tropical
clime, but sit under the fragrant shade of
orange trees, or on the glinting sea shore, and
while listening to the music of the waves,
dream tranquil dreams and write epistles for
our edification. I know too well, that in that
land, where even nature inclines one to idleness,
and the indolent though graceful movements of
the dusky people around you, betray the inertia
the climate produces, yet a mother's hands, and
she the wife of a Laie missionary, must not be
idle- Well I know the routine of the days
and weeks, which, though lovely and monoton-
ous, are ever busy. I often picture you in
your Island home, sitting on the green sward
in front of your little white cottage (by the
way, do you not wish that everlasting green
would sometimes change, that you might see it
covered with a white mantle of beautiful snow?)
Yes I fancy you there talking to and teaching
the little dark skinned urchins, and probably
those who have reached maturity, standing with
wonder-opened eyes and mouths, or, more likely,
lying flat on their stomachs, gazing with wor-
shipful admiration at your own little ones,
whose sweet white faces and delicate forms are
rendered still more beautiful by contrast; or
perhaps the grateful shades of evening are ap-
proaching, and the laborers are returning from
the cane fields and mill; and are calling to give
you Aloha, and to crave your substantial sym-
pathy in their "Pilikia."
	And now comes a picture of the quiet, calm
Sabbath morning. Oh, how excessively calm!
Slowly, dreamily the natives wend their way to
church, in holiday dress, in all its starchy
glory. You wonder as much at the almost
faultless taste of one dress, adorned with such 
matchless blossoms, as you do at the incongru-
ous mingling of color and make of another.
When the services, conducted in the native
language (merely an indistinguishable chain of
words at first, but now quite readily under-
stood), are concluded you go through the usual
and general handshaking, and, finally, when the
day has been spent as best it may, and the moon is
glorious in her beauty, while the continuous
voice of the waves seems to intensify the pre-
vailing stillness, you, with a few friends, meet
at the mansion house, and there enjoy your ex-
clusive worship, which is the nearest approach
you have to home-life in the mountains, of
which you would much rather I would tell
you, but your writings have so often brought
these pictures to my mind, that I cannot re-
frain disclosing the responsive chord you have
touched in my heart and memory.
	Time is passing, and your Sandwich Island
life will soon be almost like a dream of the
past, fraught with the brightest and saddest


of memories, but the influence of your work
and example will remain a beautiful reality, 
bringing you such peace and content, that only
those can experience who have been purified
by suffering and trial.
	You and I may know each other better,
someday, and, I trust, pass pleasant hours to-
gether; until then, believe me to be,
			Your friend,
						AUNT POLLY.
	Salt Lake City, Aug 10. 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
		MILLVILLE P. A.
	Primary annual meeting of Millville, held June
5th, 1888. Opened with singing. Prayer by
Elder J. King. Singing. Minutes of last
annual meeting read and approved; also the
annual reports. Programme: Recitation,
Ephraim Jassop; Recitation, Lula Holt; song,
Florence Henrie. Acting Counselor, Emma
Pike, made excellent and encouraging remarks;
Dialogue, Eliza Jensen and company; Recita-
tion, Leonard Pitkin; Recitation, Sylvia Yates.
Elder J. Dowdle made some very interesting
and appropriate remarks; song. Hannah
Dowdle, Recitation, Edna Hulse; the officers
were re-elected; Song, Edith V. Gamble. Sister
M. A. Dowdle occupied a short time in ad-
dressing the children upon politeness and the
use of good language; also praised them for
rendering the programme so well. Questions
and Answers on Good Manners were asked by
the Farmer's Ward; Song, Mary Humphrey;
Dialogue, by a company of little girls; Song,
Mary Whitney.
	Sister E. L. Crowther, of Logan Ward, said
this was the first time she had met with the
children of Millville. "We should be orderly,
and obedient to our parents and President,
and the Lord will bless us, for He loves little
children." Spoke upon the exercise of faith
in God.
	A Recitation, by Hattie Cartwell; Recitation,
Allie Yates. Stake President, Jane E. Molen,
spoke upon order; said we should not let the
children run in and out, but be orderly; we
should be kind to each other, and teach the
children to have faith in God. Recitation,
Sammy P. Dowdle.
	Prest. Geo. O. Pitkin said that the brightest
young men that took part in the Young Men's
Conference, belonged to the Primary a few
years ago, and expressed himself greatly
pleased with the exercises.
	Prest. Sarah Gamble felt like the Lord had
been with us; there would be a children's
dancing party in the afternoon. Benediction
by Bishop Molen.
				EVA GAMBLE, Secretary.

		  PROVIDENCE P. A.
	Meeting held June 19th, 1888, at 10 a.m.
Prest. R. Traber presided. Singing. Prayer
by Bishop N. Hansen. Singing. Roll called.
Minutes of previous annual meeting read and
accepted.
	A recitation was given by Amy Rammell;
Mary and Emma Bowman sang a song; Recita-
tion, Walter Madsen
	Sister Pike explained that Sister Molen was
detained on account of sickness, and made an
opening address, which was full of good
things.
	Annie Crowther and Company sang a song;
a card exercise was then rendered by the Prim-
ary, entitled, "Good Manners; Lula Hammond
read an essay, "Honor Thy Father and Thy
Mother."
	Sister Crowther occupied a few minutes;
thought we should do unto others as we wish
to be done by, if we would all be happy. A
recitation, Hopkin Matthews.
	Bishop N. Hansen was pleased with the

[column 2]
pieces that had been rendered by the children.
He thought the children respected their Presi-
dent very much.
	Sister Gamble said the children knew the
Lord loved them, and that He was with them
continually. Asked the Lord to bless us.
	Bro. Hyrum Campbell said a great improve-
ment had been made in order.
	Sister Jones said, "If any little girl or boy
should do wrong, they should tell their mamma,
and ask her to forgive them," and said many
other good things.
	Prest. R. Traber addressed the children a
short time. Asked the Lord to bless us.
	Singing, "Merry, Merry Children." Bene-
diction by Joan Marler.
	Afternoon exercises: President R. Traber
presided. Singing, "Beautiful Zion." Prayer
by Sister Pike. Singing, "Hope of Israel."
Report of the Association was read. A song
was then sung by Alice Fout and Joan John-
son; Diana and Diantha Hammond, a dialogue;
Annie Lane, instrumental music. Sister C.
Theurer made good remarks. William Marler,
a recitation; Alice Bullock read a selection,
"Honor to Parents;" Annie and Sarah Marler,
a song.
	Mary A. Tibbits said she had labored in the
Primary five years, and never had a better
time since. Exhorted all to attend Primary.
Milton Hammond gave a recitation; Alice
Quible, a song.
	Sister Crowther gave a brief address, touch-
ing on many useful matters.
	Bishop Hansen told the children never to
get tired of attending Primary.
	Lula Hammond addressed the children a
short time. Asked the Lord to bless us.
	Rachel Theurer, Eliza J. Tibbits and Bertha
Zollinger were honorably released as Counselors
and Treasurer. Rosalia Haderli and Bertha
Zollinger were then voted in as Counselors, and
Mary Gibbs as Treasurer. Sister Pike said the 
officers of the Primary were: Rosina Traber,
President; Rosalia Haderli and Bertha Zollin-
ger, Counselors; Mary Zollinger, Secretary;
Lula Hammond, Ass't Secretary; Mary Gibbs,
Treasurer.
	Sister Pike said we should pray for our
President, and be very kind to our fathers and
mothers. Said she had been looking at one
little boy who could not hear or speak, and we
should be very kind to him. Said they called
the Primary Association of one ward in Logan
together to pray for the Bishop's wife, and im-
mediately after they had prayed she took a
turn for the better.
	Prest. R. Traber arose, and said she hoped
the children would remember what they had
heard and put it into practice: There would
be a Fair after the meeting, on the stage.
Thanked the brethren and sisters who had
come to visit us.
	Singing, "I'll strive while young to tune my
voice." Benediction by Robert Naef.
			LULA HAMMOND, Ass't Sec.

		  UINTAH STAKE P. A.
	The conference of the Uintah Stake Primary
Association convened in the Stake House, on
Saturday morning, May 5th, 1888. Present
on the stand: Sisters Abigail Oaks, Elizabeth
Bingham and Ann Hacking, of the Stake
Presidency, the presidents of the different
ward Associations, and their counselors, also a
fair representation of the Priesthood of the
Stake.
	Although a cold, wet, rainy day, there was a
good attendance, and the programme was ren-
dered in a most enjoyable manner.
	Programme, morning session: Singing,
"Oh, come children, come," by all the Associa-
tions. Opening prayer by James O'Neil. A
boy of the 4th Ward Association sang a song;
"Children's Song," by all the Associations;
Song, entitled, "Welcome," by Cora and Eddie

[column 3]
Wardle, 4th Ward; Recitation, Stephen Taylor,
Dry Fork Association; Instrumental Music,
Mrs. Griffin; Song, seven little girls, Merrill's
Ward; Recitation, Willie Southam, Riverdale
Ward, entitled, "The Exile's Family;" Song,
"Lucy Grey," by Earnest Giles, Mill Ward;
Dialogue, by little boys, 1st Ward; Ten Com-
mandments, by Elizabeth O'Niel, 4th Ward;
Song, with organ accompaniment, entitled,
"Parents don't Visit the School," by the little
Hacking children; Recitation, Hannah Jenkins,
4th Ward; Song, Stella Colton, Mill Ward;
Song by all the Associations present, entitled,
"In our Lovely Deseret." Benediction by
Joseph Carroll, a boy of the Mill Ward Asso-
ciation.
	Programme, afternoon session: Song en-
titled, "Joseph Smith's First Prayer,"
by all the Associations. Prayer by Albert
Bird, a boy of Merrill Ward. A song
on page 20, entitled, "I'll be a Little Mormon,"
by all the children present. Primary Address,
Tommy Hicks, Mill Ward; Recitation, Alice
Reynolds, Mill Ward. entitled, "Awake! Ye
Saints of God! Awake!" Dialogue, James
O'Neil and Frank Alplanalp, 4th Ward; Reci-
tation, Mary Hall, Dry Fort Ward; Instrumen-
tal Music, Mrs. Griffin; Recitation, Reeves
Bird, Merrill Ward; Dialogue, Almira Mecham
and Company, Riverdale Association; Recita-
tion, Albert Caldwell, Merrill Ward; Recitation,
Carrie Neilson, Mountain Dell Association;
Song by the little girls of 1st Ward Associa-
tion; Dialogue, two little boys of Merrill
Ward; Recitation, Leah Glines, Mill Ward,
Song, "Lord's Prayer," Effie Howard, 1st
Ward; Recitation, Myrtle Wamsley, 2nd Ward;
Instrumental Music, Mrs. Griffin; a Cantata by
the girls of Millville Ward Association, Mrs.
Griffin leading and accompanying them on the
organ; Song by all the children present, en-
titled, "Oh, my Father, Thou that dwellest."
Benediction by Marcellus Pope. 1st Ward.
Elder Thomas Bingham, Jr., of Mill Ward led
the singing.
	Among the most notable of the foregoing
exercises was a song, "Welcome," by Cora and
Edie Wardle, of the 4th Ward, with an organ
accompaniment by Mrs. Griffin; also a recita-
tion by a little girl 4 years of age—Elizabeth
O'Niel—of the same ward, the ten command-
ments; a song and dance by a little boy three
years old, Earnest Glines, of Mill Ward; also
a poem by Sister E. R. Snow, was recited by
Alice Reynolds, a little girl of the same ward;
a recitation by Reeves Bird, a small boy six
years of age, on Wisdom and Politeness, which
he illustrated by gesture in a most pleasing
manner; also a dialogue by the two little Pack-
ard boys of the same ward; this was rendered
in a most happy style; Willie South m, of
Riverdale Ward, recited "The Exile's Family,"
which was quite touching;" Effie Howard, a
little girl of the 1st Ward, sang the "Lord's
Prayer" very sweetly, and two little girls of
Dry Fork—Mary Hall and Carrie Neilson—
recited excellently; in fact all did their parts
well, but it would occupy too much time to
mention them separately, these specially men-
tioned being among the smallest children.
	The reports from the different Associations
were dispersed through the programme, all
wards reporting. The reports were encourag-
ing, and tended to show, that although this
was the first P. A. Conference held in this
Stake of Zion, we were in a fair way to stand
side by side with other Stakes in this respect.
The day passed quickly and pleasantly, and
with the exception of a few mistakes in the
programme, which were rectified, everything
was satisfactory.
	Prest. Oaks thanked all present for their
kind attention and assistance, and adjourned
the conference until Sept. 1st, 1888.
				ABIGAIL OAKS, Prest.,
				CAROLINE STRINGHAM, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


INDIRECTION. 

Fair are the flowers and the children, but their subtle sug-
	gestion is fairer; 
Rare is the rose burst of dawn, but the secret that clasps it 
	is rarer. 

Sweet the exultance of song, but the strain that precedes it 
	is sweeter,
And never was poem yet writ, but the meaning out-mastered
	the metre. 

Never a daisy that grows, but a mystery guideth the grow-
	ing, 
Never a river that flows, but a majesty sceptres the flow-
	ing. 

Never a Shakespeare that soar'd, but a stronger than he
	did enfold him. 
Nor ever a prophet foretells, but a mightier seer hath fore-
	told him. 

Back of the canvas that throbs, the painter is hinted and 
	hidden, 
Into the statue that breathes, the soul of the sculptor is 
	bidden. 

Under the joy that is felt lie the infinite issues of feeling, 
Crowning the glory revealed, is the glory that crowns the
	revealing. 

Great are the symbols of being, but that which is symboled
	is greater;
Vast the create and beheld, but vaster the inward creator. 

Back of the sound broods the silence, back of the gift
	stands the giving;
Back of the hand that receives, thrill the sensitive nerves of
	receiving.

Space is as nothing to spirit, the deed is outdone by the
	doing;
The heart of the wooer is warm, but warmer the heart of 
	the wooing. 

And up from the pits where these shiver, and up from the
	heights where those shine, 
Twin voices and shadows swim starward, and the essence
	of life is divine. 
								RICHARD REALF.


[Column 1]
﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
WE have on hand considerable matter for
the paper, that has to be laid over for want of
space. In our next issue we shall publish
“The Women of Utah,” Part IV, “Women in
Medicine;” also the poem,“The Cross of Light,”
and some other R. S. Y. L. and P. A. reports, 
Correspondence, etc. 
	THE conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Thursday, September 13th, and a
punctual attendance of presidents and officers
is earnestly desired. On Friday, the 14th, the
Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake will hold confer-
ence, and on Saturday, the 15th, the Primary
Associations will assemble in the Assembly
Hall for their conference. 
	THE secretaries of the Salt Lake Stake
Relief Society are hereby officially notified
to send in their semi-annual reports, so that
the Stake Secretary may receive them as early
as the 25th of this month (August). Direct
the reports to the Office of the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT, as it will possibly avoid delay. The
reports are wanted for the Salt Lake
Conference, on the 1st and 2nd of September.
By order of the President of the Relief Society
of the Salt Lake Stake, M. Isabella Horne. 
	ON Tuesday, the 14th inst., a party of the
friends of Sister Elizabeth Howard drove out
to her old home in Cottonwood to give her a
“surprise,” and it was indeed a genuine one;
she had not an inkling of the fact, though she
had noticed extra preparations going on in the
grove just by, but was told there was to be a
meeting held there on the 15th, which was
true, also. Carriage after carriage drove up,

[Column 2}
until, finally, her daughter, Sister Brockbank,
thought it time to send for her mother, who
was away, by the suggestion of interested 
parties. Some of those who assembled on the
occasion had not been there for many years,
and others had never visited there, though it
used to be a very popular resort in days gone
by. The party gathered together in the grove,
which, by the by, is a very pleasant place for a
picnic. Here a very long table or tables were
set with fine linen, china, glassware and silver,
as well as flowers, and the guests brought all man-
ner of good things in their lunch baskets, until
the table fairly “groaned with the weight of the
feast.” Meantime, every one was congratulat-
ing Sister Howard and sympathizing with her,
too, for she is suffering with a sprained ankle,
and old friends were greeting each other and
conversing on topics of social and general in-
terest, and all was going on swimmingly for a
time; the guests, fifty or more, were seated at
the long table under the shade of the great tall
poplars, that kept sighing and whispering over-
head, seemingly unconscious of the eating and
drinking and conversation of the happy party.
Apostle F. D. Richards was seated at the head
of the table, and pronounced the blessing on
the food. At the extreme end of the table
from him, was President Angus M. Cannon,
and Elder Joseph Horne. Scattered along
were a few men, but the company was mostly
composed of ladies, and a very jovial company
they were. Sister Howard seemed to enjoy
the affair very much, but behold a change
—just when partaking of ice cream, which had
been made expressly for the occasion, and while
the trees were only sighing in a gentle breeze—
all at once a dark cloud came up and the wind
blew fiercely, dust came in clouds, and the rain
began to fall; the guests beat a hasty retreat
from the grove to the shelter of the house, and
immediately horses were brought out, water-
proofs were in demand, and the pleasure-seekers
began driving homeward, the rain pouring,
lightning flashing, thunder crashing, but all
reached home safely. Thus ended our surprise,
and we wondered, after all, which was the most
surprised, the hostess, or the guests that were
caught in the storm. Joking aside, the How-
ard grove at Cottonwood is a charming place
for a picnic.


RETURN HOME.

	On the 12th of May ult., Sister M. Isabella
Horne, of this city, left home on a visit to her
native land. She was accompanied by one of
her sons, and also by her sister, Mrs. Harriet
Ellis, of Bountiful. They sailed from New
York, after a pleasant overland trip, on the
steamer Circassia. The voyage was a delight-
ful one, and Sister Horne tells us she met a
number of agreeable people, with whom she
conversed, en route, on the condition of this
people and their principles of belief.
	The steamship arrived in Glasgow on the 30th,
having been eleven days and four hours at sea.
At Glasgow they visited the Grand Exposition
open there, and afterwards went to Edinboro,
where they visited places of interest, then on
to Liverpool. Mrs. Horne speaks of her voyage
up the Clyde as a most charming experience.
From Liverpool Mrs. Horne went to Notting-
ham, where she attended meetings of the
Saints, and had the privilege of addressing
them, both in the general meetings of the Saints
and in the meetings of the Relief Society.
After visiting Nottingham, she went on to
London, and shortly, from there to Rainham,
in Kent, her native place. Here, also, she had
the privilege of speaking in the meetings of
the Latter-day Saints, and also in Chatham in
the same county. But her principal business
there, was gathering up the genealogy of her
family, which kept her very busy, and took her
to all parts of the county; consequently she


remained in Kent some weeks, spent very
pleasantly and profitably. Then she went back
to London, where she visited the chief points
of attraction, and spoke publicly in the meet-
ings of the White Chapel Branch, and also
the North London Branch.
	While in London, Mrs. Horne called at the
office of the English Woman’s Review, where
she met and conversed with Miss Lydia Becker,
one of the leading suffrage women of England,
and the Editor of the Woman's Suffrage
Journal, Manchester; also met her Secretary.
Of this interview we shall have more to say
hereafter. Mrs. Horne visited the Woman’s
Hospital in London, and was most kindly re-
ceived by the House Physician.
	Leaving London, Mrs. Horne returned to 
Liverpool, and sailed from there on the City
of Rome on the 25th of July, and after an
agreeable voyage, and no unpleasantness to
speak of, the steamer arrived in New York on
the 2nd of August. Mrs. Horne reached home
on the 12th of this month, having been absent
exactly three months, during which time she
has traveled 15,000 miles. Her sister went up
into Canada to visit relatives there. Mrs.
Horne has enjoyed good health during her ab-
sence, and has come home feeling well, and in
the best of spirits, to take up her accustomed
duties in and among the sisters’ organizations,
expecting, in addition to these, to labor for her
dead in the Temples of the Lord, for those,
whose records she has obtained while away.
	We welcome her home with joy, and pray
that her life may be prolonged to accomplish
all she desires for herself and family, and as a
mother in Israel among the people.—ED.


﻿Hurry to or from trains should in all cases
be avoided. It is dangerous to the healthy
habitual traveler as well as to the invalid.
Many a one has suffered permanent dilatation
of the heart in hurrying to catch a train; many
a one has dropped dead from the same cause.
Hurry in catching trains tends to weakness of
the nervous system, to indigestion, and to heart
disease, to say nothing of the risks of catching
cold from sitting down in the carriage heated,
in cases where the person has to walk quickly
instead of riding.
	We believe that in the Bible God has given
a form of government to the family, the
church, and to the State; and that in neither
is it good for man to be alone, but that God
designs that women as well as men should
share in the government of each. Those only
who have neglected the study of the Bible as
a text-book in government can deny this. In
the republican government which God gave
Israel, women took part in the ele[---]n. The
elections then, were by acclamation instead of
by ballot, and we find the women shouting
for David when he and Saul were running for
President; and Mrs. Deborah was President of
the United States of Israel during a term of
forty years.—Rev. M. A. Gault, Blanchard, Ia.
	In the entre nous column of the Boston Sun-
day Herald, commendatory notice is given of
Lady Folkestone’s orchestra of girls, which
made a lively digression from the staid customs
of London at a concert given in aid of dis-
tressed Irish ladies. It is asserted that “Bos-
ton has never attempted a full-blown orchestra
of ladies only, with its graceful conductor of
the female persuasion.” The Herald's memory
is short—let it ask Mrs. Sallie Joy White, who
so much honors its staff, if it is possible for
London to show a more graceful picture than
was made by the lithe and youthful figure who
stood in the rear of the gallery of the Music
Hall and led an orchestra of “ladies only” at
a most notable gathering at the Hub a few
months ago, which was presided over by a
woman every whit the peer of my lady of
Folkestone.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY, 			AUGUST 15, 1888.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE INDUSTRIALIST, a monthly magazine, pub-
lished at Provo, has been improved and enlarged.
It contains many excellent things upon farming,
gardening and domestic matters, and encourages
in its columns the building up of home-interests
in every department of home-produce and home-
manufacture.  This is the kind of principles to
teach, as well as to practise, if Utah is ever to be-
come self-sustaining.  Such a paper as the Indus-
trialist is likely to find favor with the people, and a 
broad sphere for its circulation, especially among
those who depend upon manual labor for their 
support, and who are looking to the success of
home-productions, and the increase of home pat-
ronage for the prosperity of Utah.
	THE SANITARIAN, recently started in this city,
and edited by the Drs. Shipp, is certainly a very
creditable medical journal, and each issue has 
valuable papers upon some one or more of the 
various topics now being discussed by scientists
as relating to health and hygiene.  If there is 
any new light upon the science of life and how to
prolong it, or get more enjoyment out of it, and
how to preserve the little ones from the power of
the destroyer, how to live in perfect harmony with
the laws of nature, the Latter-day Saints should
avail themselves of every opportunity to obtain
such knowledge.  No doubt the editors will make
a point of keeping up with all the new and ap-
proved methods of medical and surgical attain-
ments in the profession, and keep pace with the 
times.  Mothers would do well to read and digest 
all that pertains to maternity, and also to attend
lectures upon these subjects, that they may be-
come well informed upon matters so important
and so essential to their own health and happi-
ness and that of their posterity.
	MISS DAISIE D. WOODS returned from Boston,
Saturday, July 21st, where she had been the past
year studying music, vocal and instrumental, at
the New England Conservatory.  Her teachers
speak highly of her ability, and predict for her a 
brilliant success in the profession, if she perseveres
in the work.  Prof. Daniels, one of the vocal
teachers there, who visited Salt Lake shortly be-
fore her return home, gave her mother and friends
here, every encouragement as to her voice and
taste, and what she might yet accomplish in music,
as well as her dramatic talent, which he thinks ex-
cellent.  Miss Woods has formed many pleasant
friendships with the pupils at the Conservatory,
and speaks in the highest praise of the institution

[Column 2]
and its management in all its departments.  She
appreciates the opportunities given the students
to hear lectures by famous people, both men and 
women, and tells us how much she enjoyed hear-
ing Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, who seems to have
impressed her greatly, and other noted women 
speakers.  She paid a visit to the Quaker poet
John G. Whittier, who showed her his favorite
trees at Oak Knoll, and told her how much he ad-
mired and would like to see the Rocky Moun-
tains, if his age would permit him to travel.
She also visited Plymouth with a large party of 
the students, Longfellow's home, Hawthorne's 
haunts in Salem, brought home pictures of the
"house with seven gables," and several other
places famed in the legends of New England.
At vacation Miss Daisie went up into the country
among the hills, and wandered over the old farms
and through the woods redolent of pine and hem-
lock, of which her grandmother had told her so 
often, and she realized that it was, indeed, very
beautiful, but her own home was still more fair, as
well as more dear, and she was charmed on her
return to behold once more the grand-old moun-
tains, always associated with her thoughts of home
and loved ones.
	THE DESERET UNIVERSITY, with its facilities
for education, its modern improvements, the de-
lightful grounds, and the suitable situation, en-
closed, as it is, and shaded on all sides, is, indeed,
a desirable locality for such an institution.  It has
the advantage, also, of an able Faculty, and ought
to rank high as a seat of learning.  Officers of the
Board of Regents are reliable men of note in the
Territory, and the Chancellor is Orson F. Whit-
ney, well and favorably known in the interests of
education.  The Officers of the Board, beside the
Chancellor, Secretary, Treasurer, Executive Com-
mittee of three, Visiting Committee, Library and 
Museum Committee, Building Committee.  Faculty
and Board of Instruction: John R. Park, M. D.,
President, Natural Science; Joseph B. Toronto,
Registrar, Mathematics and History; Joseph T.
Kingsbury, Physics and Chemistry; Orson How-
ard, A. M., Natural Science and English Litera-
ture; Joshua A. Paul, Elocution and Geography;
Henry C. White, A. B., Principal of Deaf Mute
Department; Geo. M. Ottinger, Free Hand Draw-
ing and Painting; Evan Stephens, Vocal Music;
H. M. Schmidt-Wartenberg, Ph. D., Latin and 
German; Hon. J. G. Sutherland, Law; Wm. M.
Stewart, Pedagogies; Don Carlos Young, C. E.,
Architecture and Mechanical Drawing; Alfred
Andre, French; Orson Pratt, Piano and Organ;
Willard E. Weihe, Violin; Florence Crandell,
Assistant Deaf Mute Department; John M.
Whittaker, Phonography; Milton H. Hardy, M.
D., Physician to Deaf Mute Department, and
Librarian.  The academic year is divided into
four terms of ten weeks each.  The first term will
begin September 3rd and end November 9th;
second term begin November 12th and close
January 25th; third term begin January 28th and
end April 15th; fourth term begin April 17th and
close June 14th.  Vacation recess will be, Thanks-
giving—Winter Holidays, ten days, including
Christmas and New Year's.  The Annual of the
University gives a very general account of its
history, from the time when the institution was
founded.  The first meeting of the first Board of 
Regents was held March 13, 1850, and on the
second Monday in the November following, the
University was open for the admission of students.
There is much of interest connected with the past
history of the University of Deseret, that is given
briefly in the Circular.  The institution has had a 
hard struggle in the past, although many teachers
have been thoroughly educated there, but at the
present time indications are much more favorable
to the requirements necessary for a classical
course than formerly.  Dr. Park and others, who
have labored so diligently heretofore, must feel
more gratified with the present condition.


MEMORIAL ANNIVERSARY.

REPORT OF THE RELIEF SOICETY MEETING,
HELD IN THE OGDEN TABERNACLE, JULY
19TH, 1888, IN COMMEMORATION OF THE
LAST PUBLIC VISIT AND INSTRUCTIONS OF
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG, ON INVITA-
TION OF PRESIDENT JANE S. RICHARDS, TO
THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND YOUNG LADIES'
IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS OF THE
WEBER STAKE OF ZION, JUST ELEVEN
YEARS AGO THE 19TH INST.

(REPORTED BY JOHN M WHITTAKER.)

[Continued.]
	Brother Richards continuing said: To read
all of President Young's sermon, would be to oc-
cupy all the forenoon. It is long and full of inter-
est. These principles lie right at the foundation
of our education our growth, and our usefulness.
I felt as though I could do no better than read
this portion or part of the sermon to the sisters
now eleven years after he delivered it.
	It will be remembered that we labored to sus-
tain ourselves. He wished the sisters to manu-
facture hats, and the brethren to sustain them in
their labors, so that we could become a self-sus-
taining people. He wished the brethren to estab-
lish manufactures and start various industries.
And so strongly was he impressed, that he arose
the second time and encouraged the sisters to
raise Mulberry trees and cocoons, so that they
might manufacture silk.
	An organization was effected, and the sisters,
many of them, took stock in this company; it
worked well for a time; some of you have seen
the products of that work.
	Having made these few remarks, which will
bring more vividly before you the instructions of
eleven years ago and him who delivered them, I
do not feel to occupy more time; but wish to say a
few words during some part of the day. With
the many sisters and presidents that are here, we,
no doubt, will have many refreshing, cheering
and profitable discourses. I will now introduce
to you Sister Presendia Kimball, sister of the new
President, Sister Zina D. H. Young. Sister Kim-
ball will address you.
	My brethren and sisters: I am pleased for the
opportunity of meeting with with you on this occasion.
What is more gratifying than to see the faces off
the daughters of Zion and sons of God meeting
together to honor, to commemorate and to mani-
fest our respect for our late President Brigham
Young, who has gone behind the veil. I feel to
thank God for this and every other blessing that
I am permitted to enjoy. This Relief Society is
a great benefit and blessing to the poor and to the
Bishops. It was instituted to aid and assist the
sons and daughters of God; but we do not all ap-
preciate its worth. And those who labor to pro-
mote these institutions are blessed and will be
blest in every laudable undertaking, and God will
sustain them in their labors. I feel that Sister
Richards is a blessing to the sisters of this
county. And though her labors are not now ap-
preciated, they will be some day, when this raid
that is now upon us is ended, and the beloved
brethren who are in hiding can come out and
instruct us and preach to us. I ask God to hasten
the time and bless them with strength to stand
firm at all times.
	I think the remarks of Brother Richards, and
the counsel contained in the sermon of President
Brigham Young, worthy of imitation. I think
the mothers should profit by them; and those who
are past bearing children, will do well to profit by
them and teach them to their grandchildren.
What is there better than to see the children
brought up in the fear and admonition of the
Lord? What is more pure and holy than to see
children virtuous and God-fearing, all working


[Column 1]

righteousness and keeping the commandments of
God, and preparing to stand as Saviors upon
Mount Zion? Mothers are the ones that train up
the children. Never let your tempers get the
upper hand of you. Teach the little children to
pray as soon as they can lisp their words—teach
them before they are too old. Teach them while
yet they are pure from their Father In heaven, be-
fore they are surrounded with the influences of
the world, and then they will make mighty mem-
bers of the Church and Kingdom of God; for
such will soon be needed. The fathers and
mothers of this Church are getting old and are
passing away. They are going one by one, one by
one. I have been in this Church fifty-two years.
I have seen the rise and fall of a great many great
and noble spirits in the kingdom of God. "Blessed
are they that die in the Lord from henceforth,"
so says the Lord, "for their works do follow them."
I do not look upon death with the terror that some
do. I think it will be pleasant to go behind the
veil and join with those who have been faithful,
honored God and are bright and shining lights in
His kingdom.
	We should teach our children to honor them.
Not find fault, but to teach ennobling principles
of the salvation of the living and the redemption
of the dead. Of the work in the temples, I can
say that it occupies a great deal of my time, and I
feel thankful for such privileges and blessings. I
have the comfort to know that I have been in
every temple built in this generation. I ask God
to bless the fathers and mothers in Israel, that
they may bring up their children in the ways of
God, to be pure and holy. Teach them the princi-
ples President Brigham Young taught, that they
may grow up to be useful in this world and gain a
crown of glory in the world to come.
	I pray that you will remember Sister Zina in
your prayers; for she needs your aid and support
in her declining years. I pray God that He will
bless the authorities, and also the mothers,
especially the rising generation. I think the Re-
lief Society is one of the greatest blessings, ex-
cept the Primaries, that God has ever given
through His  prophets for the benefit of this
people. It is something that will enable the child-
ren to bear this kingdom off when the aged are
passed away.
	I pray that his choice blessings may rest upon
these organizations, those who are laboring in
their interest and all who desire to do right, and
all who are honorable among the nations of the
earth who desire to do good. If I had power I
would be pleased to live to be sanctified for the
changes before us. These are the greatest bless-
ings that we can live for, or that could be given
us, and I ask for them to rest upon us in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	President D. H. Peery then said he deemed it a
fitting place to talk over the events that have
transpired since the instructions of President
Young, which were given to us eleven years ago
to-day. He had known President Young before
he saw him. He loved him for the relationship
he sustained with the heavens, and for the great
principles of the Gospel and other things he advo-
cated. The speaker had the good fortune to know
most of the presidents of the United States. He
had, in his youth, learned to call Benjamin Frank-
lin "the Solomon of America," yet, when he saw
and knew Brigham, Brigham Young was, in his
mind, the Solomon of America. He was great,
and his name will be handed down from genera-
tion to generation as one beloved of his people
and of his God.
	He well remembered the instructions of Presi-
dent Young in relation to Home Industries, and
thought if the people had taken his advice, they
would be self-sustaining to day. He also be-
lieved the time would come when, if this people
did not turn round and repent, that they would be
in a condition of hunger when the children would

[Column 2]

cry for bread, and that, too, before many decades.
These were strong impressions made upon his
mind, and they were with him constantly. He
prayed for the blessings of God upon the people
of Israel.
	Sister Helen Mar Whitney said:
	I feel honored, my brethren and sisters, in ap-
pearing before you here to-day and mingling with
some whom I have not met for many years. I
never before met with the Society in Ogden, and
I now feel it a privilege to be here on this event-
ful occasion.
	I can say that I loved President Young. He
dandled me upon his knees from my birth, and I
loved him next to my own father. He, Uucle
Joseph Young and my father had equal place in
my heart. They used to ask me which of them I
loved best, but I never knew any difference. I
once said to an inquiry, "I love you all at once."
Uncle Brigham used often to relate this.
	I feel that I can say amen to all that has been
said here to-day. The instructions of President
Brigham Young seem familiar. He was one of
the noblest of men.
	I can realize the responsibilities and the cares
that are placed upon the mothers; for I am a
mother, and one that has reared a number of
children—sons and doughters; and I know the
anxiety of a mother; I have felt it for many years,
and have prayed that I might live to raise my
family. My husband had another wife—a good
woman, too, and a good mother—but I thought I
would rather raise my children myself, because
she might indulge them too much; and there is
danger in that, just as much as in its opposite.
But the Lord has spared me to raise my children
to become men and women, excepting those He
has taken. I feel that it is the greatest comfort
that could be placed upon me, and it is the hight
of my ambition and my desire to see my children
walking in that path which leads to eternal life.
And as far as the things of the world is con-
cerned, there are many good things that the Lord
blesses us with, and which make us happy, but it
is better to keep the riches of the world away
from us, until we know how to use them.
	Mothers should train up their children in the
fear of the Lord. There are no missionaries that
can do the good to children that mothers can, be-
cause she knows the child's disposition and its
weaknesses; she knows how to train it aright;
and it is an important thing. Mothers should
study how to manage their children, to know what
is best for this child and for that, and to show no
partiality. The rearing of children is a most im-
portant mission. When once a child becomes es-
tablished in the faith, it is a consolation to see
him or her walking along in the paths of virtue
and honor, treading in the footsteps of their
Master and Redeemer. I feel in my daily prayers
to pray for the mothers in Israel, and for the
youth of Zion, that they may come to an under-
standing of the Gospel.
	In looking back over the past, I can see where
we might have improved. I understood that the
earth was to rest every seven years; but I have
never seen the time when we wanted anything or
needed anything, but what the Lord has blest us
with the same, if it was for our good.
	It is a day for us to be prayerful. It is a day
when we should be humble—even humble our-
selves in sack-cloth and ashes. And I feel that
the present persecution is a chastisement and
that it will be for our good. It will clear us of
those who are among us, who hinder our progress,
for they prevent us from enjoying the blessings of
the Lord, which we would otherwise have. It is
perfectly right, and I feel to pray that the chasten-
ing hand of the Almighty may be sanctified to
the good of this people.
	I, for one, feel to be up and doing. The adver-
sary stands ever ready to destroy our usefulness;
he has done much to discourage me and take me

[Column 3]

off the earth. And I have felt sometimes as
though it would be a joy if I could go. But it
was only in  my weak, sick, and prostrated
moments. I feel now to live to take part
in the winding up scenes.
	I pray that we may be saved and crowned with
that glory that we desire, in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Apostle H. J. Grant then said:
	I am pleased to have the opportunity to meet
with the sisters on this occasion, and I have been
interested in what has been said here this morn-
ing in the remarks that have been made, and
those portions of the sermon of Prest. Young's
that have been read to us.
	I realize that it is the neglect of small duties
that devolve upon us as Latter-day Saints, that
makes us feel that we are not required to do those
things that are so small. I believe that there are
many Latter-day Saints who think they can neglect
insignificant requirements and small duties, and
still press forward in keeping the commandments
of God because of the testimonies that they have
received of the truths of the Gospel. I do not
believe that it is possible for you or for me, or any
individual to break any of the commandments of
God and maintain the fellowship of His Holy
Spirit to the full extent. The Lord certainly does
not intend to be trifled with; and when He gives
commandments to us as His people to keep, if it
is of sufficient importance to give commandments,
it is certainly right and proper that we should keep
them. I believe in the influence and the power
that the mothers of Israel have over their child-
ren. I believe that the remarks that President
Young made here are true, and that it is possible
for the mothers to make their children about wha
they may desire. They are capable of moulding
their characters for good or for evil; and through
the neglect and failure on the parts of mothers,
you will find you can trace the failure of the child-
ren.
	I recall to my mind, at the present time, a cer
tain individual that was very careless in his youth
in keeping the commandments of the Lord. The
father of this boy was an Apostle, and whenever
he would do wrong, his mother would shield him
in his wrong, and hide it from his father. He went
from bad to worse and met a violent death.
	Now, I do not believe that it is possible for any
mother to cover up the misdeeds of her children
and have them grow honest. I realize that we, as
Latter-day Saints, if we but keep the command-
ments of God and do His will and perform the
duties devolving upon us, that we will receive
blessings from our Heavenly Father. He makes
no promises to us that He is not willing to fulfill.
The great difficulty is, we neglect to keep His
commandments through which we are entitled to
His blessings, and then ask for the reward without
being entitled to it.
	Now, we have heard, with reference to the com-
mandments which come to us by President Young,
that we should be self-sustaining. How many of
the Latter-day Saints are self-sustaining to-day?
How many of the Latter-day Saints, from the
Twelve Apostles down, wear home-made clothing?
Very, very few indeed. How many of the Latter-
day Saints throughout the whole Territory pay
their tithing. This is a commandment of the
Lord, He said we were to pay our tithing, and
He has given it as a law to the people, that they
should pay one tenth of all their increase. There
are many who, when they make a little, will pay
their tithing; but when they make considerable, it
breaks their hearts, they feel that they cannot do
it.
	Now, it may seem an extravagant statement, but
I believe one fourth of the Latter-day Saints do
not pay their tithing. The Lord has said if we do
not pay our tithes and our offerings, it shall not be
a land of Zion to us. I can say truthfully, I spent
several days in looking over the records in Salt


[Column 1]

Lake City, and was dumbfounded to see that some
Presidents, Bishops and officers, many and many
of them, do not pay a dollar of tithing, in some of
the different Stakes of Zion—representative men
among the Latter-day Saints. What is the trouble?
Why, we seem to have set our hearts upon the
things of this world. We think more of keeping
the dollars and cents in our pockets than to gain
the blessings of God.
	I call upon the sisters to teach their children, in
their youth, that on every dollar they make, they
should pay one tenth to the Lord. If we desire
the Lord to open the windows of the heavens and
shower forth the blessings of God upon us, we
must live right. If you wish your sons and
daughters to gain a testimony of the truth of the
Gospel and grow in the knowledge of the truth,
then teach them that Jesus is the Christ, that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, that Brig-
ham Young, John Taylor and Wilford Woodruff
are his legal successors. If you wish this knowl-
edge to burn in their hearts, teach them to pay one
tenth—a just portion of what comes into their
hands. If we do not render unto the Lord our
thanks, His Spirit will die out and wither within
us, so far as the Gospel is concerned. If we set
our heart upon the things of this world, we will
gain the things of this world and that is all. I tell
you the tithing that is paid by the Latter-day
Saints does not help God at all. He does not
need it, so far as He is concerned. Then why are
we called upon to pay tithing? So that we would
not become sordid and selfish. Why are we called
upon to keep the Word of Wisdom? So that we
can keep our bodies pure and our spirits pure
Why are we called upon to be prayerful? So that
we will be humble. Why are these command-
ments given? So that we may attain to perfection.
They are given to perfect us, and fit us to dwell in
the presence of God, the Eternal Father. But
paying tithing, keeping the commandments and
being prayerful does no good to God, but to us.
If you would have your children grow up to be
bright and shining lights in the kingdom of God,
doing their duties so that they may attain perfec-
tion and dwell in the kingdom of God eternally,
teach them to keep all the principles of God.
Teach them to be honest with their fellowmen and
with all mankind, and to keep their word as their
bond.
	I do not feel to occupy any more time. May
God bless you, one and all, is my prayer, in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith, though having weak
lungs, desired to mingle her voice with that of her
sisters, and was pleased to listen to so many good
testimonies, and hear the good instructions given.
She rejoiced at having the honor of being at the
first Relief Society, organized in Nauvoo, and had
noted with pride the rapid growth of the Society.
She was also at the first Young Ladies' meeting,
or organization, in President Young's house, and
had been pleased with their improvement since
that time. She said they were doing a good work,
and was pleased to state that she was first a secre-
tary, then a teacher, and next a president; but of
all the positions she had ever held, she believed 
that of a teacher the most important. She realized
there was a great deal required of us, and rejoiced
in seeing the sick comforted and blessed, the lame
healed, and the blind restored to sight through the
administration of the sisters. And she urged up-
on the sisters to teach their children faith in the
ordinances of the Gospel, that they might grow
up pure in God, and be sanctified with the re-
deemed.
	Elder Richard Ballantyne addressed the con-
gregation a few moments, encouraging the sisters
to be up and awake to their duties and privileges.
He felt to welcome the visitors, and was glad to
meet to help commemorate this holy day. He
was acquainted with President Young in Nauvoo
and since he lived here, and ever found him to be

[Column 2]

a man of God, and give fatherly advice at all
times. He invoked the blessings of heaven to
rest upon the sisters who are laboring in the Relief 
cause everywhere.
	The choir sang, "Praise to the man who com-
munes with Jehovah." Benediction by Bishop
E. Stratford.
	At the close of the services, President Jane S.
Richards extended a hearty welcome to all the
people to repair to the Third Ward meeting house,
where they went and partook of one of the most
completely arranged dinners ever gotten up so
quietly.  It was the remark of everybody, "How
nicely this has been arranged," etc.
	The room was decorated with garlands of ever-
greens and flowers; above the stand, in letters of
evergreen, was inscribed:

	1877,
WEBER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY,
	1888.

A large picture of President Brigham Young was
hung amid these inscriptions, and below the late
Presidency of the Church. In the south window
was a scythe, covered with evergreens and decora-
tions, hung in open view. These decorations
were the work of the Y. M. and Y. L. Associa-
tions of the Third Ward. These young people
deserve great credit for the artistic display, which
enhanced the pleasure of the dinner very much.
The tables were handsomely furnished with an
abundance of everything of the choicest in the
season, brought from the several wards in the city.
It was verily an enjoyable feast, and partaken of
by all with a relish, seasoned with conversation of
such a nature as added much to the enjoyment of
the occasion. Six or seven hundred people sat
down to the tables spread for them. Counselor
Barnard White superintended the preparations.
Apostle F. D. Richards pronounced the blessing
upon the food.
	At 1:45 p.m. the afternoon exercises began in
the Tabernacle, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding.
Congregation sang, "Come, let us anew," etc.
Prayer was offered by Bishop Barnard White.
Singing, "Now, let us rejoice in the day of salva-
tion.
	Sister Mary Ann Hyde, President of the Relief
Society of the Sanpete Stake, said:
	Beloved brethren and sisters: I feel it a great
privilege to meet with you on this occasion. I
have been very much gratified to meet with so
many of my sisters. It is a privilege I never be-
fore enjoyed. I feel that there is a sweet influ-
ence in the midst of the sisters of this place, the
same as there is throughout Sanpete.
	I was very much pleased with the remarks of
Sister Richards, your President, this morning.
They were kind and gentle and motherly, and
carried that influence with them that draws so
many towards her.  In her speaking of the sim-
plicity of our teachings, there is so much
pleasure that gives joy in labors of life's duties
which we have to perform. We are not here be-
cause of our fluent speaking but because of the
truths which are uttered by the speakers to us.
	In listening to the remarks of President Young,
it carried me back to the time when the spirit
and mantle of Joseph fell upon him. I was there
and witnessed that scene at the time it occurred.
I looked, and it seemed as though it was Joseph
himself. I said to those near me, "See there is
Joseph," not even taking my eyes off for fear I
should lose the sight of it. It was a testimony to
me that he was the right man in the right place.
	It is the privilege of every Latter-day Saint to
have a degree of revelation for themselves. I
have been blessed many times by listening to the
whispers of that still small voice; and I would
exhort those of my brethren and sisters who
have not got a testimony of this work, to try and
get it.
	Persecution is now upon us, and I pray that

[Column 3]

the chastening hand of the Almighty may be
sanctified to our good, that we may see between
light and darkness in the great struggle that is
going on. And I wish to say that in 1842 I
was sealed to my husband and during this long
time in plural marriage I have had a great many
opportunities of proving the principle; and I have
raised a great number of children, and I feel that
it is quite possible, sisters, to love the wives of
your husband, no matter how many he may have,
you can cultivate that love. And the children of
all will be equally dear to all. I feel to rejoice that
the Lord has given me strength to hold on until
now, and pray that He will bless me until the
end.
	Sister Rachel Grant then said:
	I feel very pleased, my brethren and sisters, to
meet with you this afternoon. I feel that these
societies are a great benefit to this people, and by
attending to my duties my faith has been
strengthened; but the greatest blessing of my life
has been that I have entered the Holy order of
marriage, although it has been the greatest trial
of my life. But to-day, I can say I feel thankful
for the experience I have gained. I have a good
opportunity to think and reflect, as my hearing is
not good.  I have been grieved many times at the 
course some of our young have taken. I feel very
much interested in the rising generation, and
would like to see them prepare themselves for the
great work of the future they will have to per-
form. There is a carelessness and neglect among
the young that grieves me. I was out to Grants-
ville at conference a short time ago, and after en-
joying a good meeting, we came by Garfield
Beach, and it hurt me to see so many of the
young people, calling themselves Latter-day
Saints, there bathing and sporting on the Sabbath
day. I feel that we do not pay respect unto the 
Lord as we should. I realize there is no people
upon the earth to-day, that is more greatly blessed
than we are. Then, let us realize our position as
a people, and appreciate the blessings God is daily
bestowing upon us. I beseech my young brethren
and sisters to store their minds with useful knowl-
edge, that they may be fitted and qualified for the
events of the future. I pray that we may be
humble and prayerful, then will the clouds of per-
secution roll away, and we will be a happy and
free people. For I look for the time when I will
be able to hear by the power of God; and unto
this end I continually pray, in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
	President Angus M. Cannon said:
	It is gratifying to me to be privileged to meet
with you to-day, and listen to the words of coun-
sel that we have heard, and I trust that while I
address you, that the Holy Spirit of God may fill
my heart with hope and my mind with light, that
it is the privilege of the covenant children to en-
joy; that while I may address you, I may speak
those things actuated of God, and which will be
the greatest good for us all. When we stand
forth in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, we do
not stand to utter our own words, but the words of
Jesus, whose ministers we are—for the Holy
Ghost is the minister unto His servants; and when
He called His Apostles and sent them forth, He
said: "As my father hath sent me even so send I
you; he that receiveth you, receiveth me;
and he that receiveth me, receiveth Him that sent
me." With this commission, message and divine
authority bestowed upon them, He told them they
were not to minister, when He took His departure,
until the Holy Ghost should come and furnish
them with the knowledge of God and the testi-
mony they should bear. Hence, the necessity of
us to-day possessing that spirit, and being actuated
by that divine influence.
	When I contemplate and realize that we are the
descendants of God, obtaining tabernacles of
flesh, and being ministered unto of the Lord
through His divinely commissioned servants—


[Column 1]

apostles and prophets—I ask myself the question:
"Do our lives comport with our professions, and
are the evidences of our labors such as shall give
us credit. You mothers, and my younger sisters
are to raise up men to instruct kings, and minister
the Lord's laws in His divine organization by His
authority. Hence, the necessity to impress upon
 the minds of the young, whom you are called to
nourish and educate, their divine descent, the
knowledge of the dignity of their calling and the
situations they will be called to fill.
	A man may have grown grey in the service of
God, he may have filled his life with continued
labors in the ministry, yet he has never received a
daughter of Eve at the hand of God until he took
upon him the obligations of the everlasting priest-
hood. And if he lives right, he will prize nothing
as he will the will of God. He will not love his
wife as he loves God, for God gives him his wives,
God give woman to man under pledges of eternal
union.
	Now, we are being tried and schooled; and my
heart rejoices in the testimony of Brother Grant,
this morning, as he taught us the necessity of be-
stowing upon our families a good example, the
paying of tithes and offerings with fidelity;
and I thought how appropriate these teachings—
these truths, in the presence of these mothers,
and these maidens who are destined to become
mothers.
	When I read the history of those two thousand
young men, and the manner of God's blessing
them under the hands of the High Priest, Hela-
man, that they went forth cherishing the testimony
God had given them through the advice and
teachings of their mothers, that God would sus-
tain them in all their battles, and when I look upon
the mothers of this people, and remember the
sacrifices that they have made in sharing with
others their wifely interests and in cheerfully and
freely dividing their scanty support that they may
carry out the divine behests of Jehovah, I say
when I realize these things, I feel to glorify God
that you have been true to your covenants and the
counsels of God Almighty.
	When I have seen those same men turn and
weaken, whom their wives have done so much for,
when the United Order came about—I say when I
see these men weaken, when they have been re-
quired to take their substance and place it upon
the altar, subject to the divine counsels of God,
and hear them say, "Well, I don't know whether
that is very good or not; I think I can handle my
property as well as any one else, and until I can
find some one who can handle it better than I, I
will not listen to that counsel"—when I have seen
men aged and grey, feeble with age, assume such
a position, with their wives and children looking
upon them—those who have been required to
sacrifice their feelings and almost break their
heart-strings, in order to carry out the divine
decrees of God—and then to see their husbands
weaken and hesistate when it comes to temporal
things, I say, unhappy are the wives of such
men; yet it is a thing that has been done.
	This is a day of trial, and I speak of these
things that these sisters who are mothers, and will
yet become mothers, may teach their child-
ren—their sons and daughters—that as they prize
the fellowship of God, they must  prize His gifts.
We should make everything subservient to the
will of God. I tell you, there is nothing in the
world that excites the despleasure of God, as the
abuse of the blessings that He bestows upon us.
Therefore, teach your sons to be obedient, to be-
lieve in God's existence, and that all they possess
should be subject to His divine will.
	Then would we encourage home industries.
Then would those who wear home-made clothing
be respected, and then would we become more of
a self-sustaining people. And while the trains
are heavily laden with Sabbath breakers and
transgressors, going to these popular resorts on

[column 2]

the Sabbath, and on moonlight excursions, where
some of the daughters of Zion have been cor-
rupted and destroyed, the majority of the people
are on the side of the kingdom of God, and are
strengthened by the testimony of Jesus, and God's
name will be glorified in the earth from the rising
to the setting of the sun, and Zion is rising and
beginning to shine forth. May God strengthen
us in every good endeavor, unite us in our hearts,
that we may be characterized by virtue, truth and 
good works, whether it be by father, mother, sis-
ter or brother, wives or children, husbands, sons
or daughters, so that we may set examples to the
world, and may fill the stations we are called to
fill with dignity and honor; and that God may
strengthen you mothers and daughters in the call-
ing whereunto you have been called, is my prayer,
in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Sister Harriet Snow, Prest. of the Box Elder
Stake Relief Society, said:
	I rejoice to be in your midst to-day, and to
listen to the good instructions which have been
given. We have been called to labor amongst the
Saints in the midst of the mothers in Israel.
	I have been made to rejoice in all Gospel doc-
trines that have been revealed, and I never have
any recollection of ever doubting any one of them
at any time. I have tried to perform my duties
step by step, and still feel determined to perform
every duty that is made known to me. That is
why I stand here to-day. Since I have been in-
terested in the Society of Box Elder Stake, there
have been two taken off from what was, originally,
one Stake. We are striving  to store away wheat,
and I believe we must have about 500 bushels
now, and I believe the time will come when we
 will need it. I pray God to bless us in all things,
in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Dr. Edward Isaacson was then introduced, who
said:
	To say I am pleased—to say that I am thankful
to meet with you this afternoon, would not express
the feelings of my heart: I rejoice to see so many
happy faces, and when I reflect upon the great
and mighty work the Lord is doing, and that this
work has been entrusted to your care to do, you
certainly have a right to  be called, "True mothers
and daughters in Israel."
	And when I realize how many of our fellow-
beings are helped and assisted in the hour of
need and tribulation, when I realize that the
mothers in Israel go from house to house to com-
fort the sick and cheer the afflicted, I say unto
myself, these mothers and daughters have been
called by God Almighty, and placed here in these
valleys of Zion for the purpose of doing good.
	While I was listening, this morning, to Bro.
Grant, my heart was filled with sorrow. He has
told us plain enough that he has been, for days,
looking over the records of our tithing, and there
he has found that no more that twenty-five per
cent of our people are keeping the command-
ments of God with regards to the paying of tithing.
	My sisters, this is a law which was given unto
the great law giver, Moses, and which he gave
nnto the ancient people of God, and while they
paid their tithes and their offerings their tem-
ples and their cities have prospered and stood in
their glory; but as soon as they neglected to do it,
we know what become of God's people. These
commandments were again given to our Prophet
Joseph, and are in force among us in this dispensa-
tion; and while Apostle Grant said it is not right
 to neglect your tithing, I will go still further and
say unto you, that those who do not pay their tith-
ing, break one of the commandments which says:
"Thou shalt not steal!"
	I love to hear my brnthren and sisters testify of
the goodness of God, and to the truth of His Gos-
pel; and while the Lord has blessed us and is
blessing us, let us keep His commandments and
do His will at all times. Let us appreciate these
great blessings we here enjoy in these

[Column 3]

valleys of the mountains. When first
the people came to this place, it was
barren and wild. But now, through the blessings
of God, it has been made beautiful, and we have
ov ely homes; for God did give these homes to
us, and they are His. I must say, that each meet-
ing that I attend, each time I mingle my voice
with those of my brethren, strengthens my heart
and my testimony in the knowledge that we alone
have the only Gospel of the true
and living God; and through His
gracious mercies, which he is bestowing upon
this people daily, shall teach them more and more,
that God Almighty has chosen them. He has
blessed this people and surrounded them with
magnificent and beautiful temples, the like of
which are not to be found upon the face of the
earth; He has blessed us in many ways, yet we
are only slow in doing our duties towards our God.
Let us, then, my brethren and sisters, live nearer
to God, keeping His commandments, and live
noble lives in His sight.
	I may say again to you, that we do not live as
we ought. If the Prophet Brigham Young were
to see the loads going on excursions on the Sab-
bath day, seeing the daughters of Zion mingling
with the Gentiles, would he not feel very sorry
 for the Saints? You have heard read here this
morning his counsels, given eleven years ago to-
day. He has counseled you mothers to watch
over your children, and bring them up keeping
God's commandments; and I beseech you to live
up to the counsel he gave while with us. Instruct
your children to walk in the ways of God, and He
will bless you. I know that the hand of the Al-
mighty is over this people, and I bear my testi-
mony to you, that this alone is the truth of God,
and it is His work. May He in His mercy bless
us. May He keep His eyes over us and
watch and protect us, so that we may not fail to
do our duties as He desires us to do, and that we
may keep His commandments, through Jesus
Christ. Amen.
		To be Continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S 'EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CAMPAIGN POETRY ABOUT MRS.
			CLEVELAND.
	Mrs. Sarah M. P. Pratt, who has written
some rather graceful poetry, is the author of
the ambitious campaign ode to Mrs. Cleveland,
published among free trade essays in Belford's
Magazine, and reproduced in The Sun a few
days ago.   The general theme is that no
crowned Queen in Europe is fairer or personal-
ly more charming than Mrs. Cleveland. We
do not think that any American will dispute
the proposition; but Mrs. Piatt’s verses, con-
sidered as poetry, are  not beyond criticism:
	"Queens may be fair, even in the cruel sun.
		Of this our day,  But runge them in a row;
	  One wears a rose of England—wtthering. One
		Outglitters Russia's snow."
	The idea of ranging the queens in a row, in
the cruel sun of July, for purposes of compari-
son, is harsh and mechanical.  The idea of 
Queens in a row, without reference to the 
weather, suggests some grotesque associations,
far removed from those which Mrs. Piatt had
in mind. Then ensues a catalogue of Queens,
beginning with Victoria of the withered rose
and ending thus:
	"One hides a girl's face in Spain's widow veil.
		One, who loves VIRGIL'S song has but to stir,
	  Or lift her golden head, and the nightingale
		Sings out his heart to her."
	The allusion, we suppose, is to the gifted 
Pauline Elizabeth Ottillie Louise of Roumania,
who, like Mrs. Piatt, writes for the magazines
at the usual rates of compensation, and who
contributed a poem to Brother Henry C.
Bowen's recent celebration of the glorious
Fourth at Woodstock, Conn.  But it is hardly


fair to compare Pauline Elizabeth Ottillie
Louise with the President's wife; she is more
in Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland's line. Hav-
ing ranged all the available Queens in a row,
Mrs. Piatt bids Mrs. Cleveland stand up:

	"Go, if you will, among them all and stand,
		With just a mountain wild flower in your hair,
	With just the wedding ring on your light hand 
		The nation bids you wear.

	"Then from the Elysian Fields call PARIS back;
		'Say who shall have the golden apple—who?'
	Though Europe, armed, should follow in his track
		He'd throw it straight to you."

	The suggestions contained in these final
stanzas are decidedly unpleasant, even were it
supposable that Paris, after his experience as
judge in one prize competition of female love-
liness, would ever consent to return from the
Elysian Fields to undertake the responsibility
of another award.
	Mrs. Piatt's poetical conceit is in gross viola-
tion of good taste, and we must say that her
verses are as far as possible from being the
right sort of lyric praise for so sensible, modest,
matter-of-fact, and truly American a woman as
Mrs. Cleveland.
	By all means let the poets continue to cele-
brate the admirable qualities of Mrs. Cleve-
land; but let it be done in a manner which her
own good sense would approve. There is no
need of standing the crowned queens of
Europe up in a row, with the mature Victoria
at the head of the line, and still less of bring-
ing Paris back from his present abiding place
in Sheol.
	Moreover, it was not the nation that bid
Mrs. Cleveland wear her wedding ring. She
was elected by Grover Cleveland and by him
alone, although the nation sincerely and sym-
pathetically approved of Mr. Cleveland's
choice. and ever since has held the subject of
Mrs. Piatt's hothouse verses in herty esteem
and respectful affection.—The Sun.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WRITER AS HE WRITES.

	"When you just begin to be an author,"
writes Julian Hawthorne in America, "the sight
of the blank sheet of paper gives you an appe-
tite instead of depriving you of it. You long
to be at work and cover it with ink-marks. A
new writer not only enjoys writing, but re-
writing also; I have known authors who will
copy out a piece over and over again, until the
page appears without an erasure That is not
a bad thing by way of practice, and would, no
doubt be advocated by the printers. But it is
not likely to be kept up more than two or three
years. After that the writer knows what he is
going to write before he writes it; he has
learned the art of putting the contents of his
mind directly on paper; besides, he has not the
time to make copper-plate reproductions of his
work. He is more apt to put it off to the last
practicable moment, and then to do it as rapid-
ly as he can. And by-and-by it will be irk-
some to him to do it at all; and he will wish
that fortune would present him with a year's
vacation, during which he could lie on his
back and do nothing.
	"There is a period, in the writing of every
book, when it seems impossible it should ever
be finished. What has gone before seems bad,
and what is to come is either a blank, or it
promises to be worse than the beginning. An
apathy, a paralysis, settles upon the worker; he
wishes he had taken up butchering or liquor-
selling for a living. Every day that he post-
pones the completion of his task it appears
more hopeless; his mind is gloomy, his con-
science oppressed; be haunts his study, but ef-
fects no more than a ghost might; he draws
pictures on scraps of paper, reads books that
do not interest him, and even plans out work


that can only be executed at some indefinite
future opportunity; at last his final moment of
grace expires, and he sits down in desperation
and plunges his pen into the inkstand. The
work goes on, and then he wonders how he
could have imagined any difficulty. The word
'Finis' is written, and he experiences an up-
lifting of the spirit. Thackeray, according to
all accounts, was subject to distressful periods
of this kind; but he declares, in one of his
essays, that after finishing a given book it was
his custom always to begin another before go-
ing to bed—in the mood of reactionary light-
heartedness following upon his depression."—
Ex.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Stowe continues to receive $1,500 a
year royalties on "Uncle Tom's Cabin."
	Rev. E. P. Roe, the well-known clergyman
and story writer, died suddenly at Cornwall-on-
the-Hudson on the 20th of July.
	Emperor William of Germany has agreed
to the proposal that his mother should bear
the titles of Empress and Queen Frederick.
	Pundita Ramabai was welcomed before she
entered San Francisco by a committee who met
her en route, and was given a reception on her
arrival.
	Thirty years ago, on August 5, 1858, there
flashed under the waves of the Atlantic, from
Newfoundland to Ireland, the first unbroken
current of electricity.
	Amalie Rives says that she does not smoke
cigarettes, does not receive men in her bowers
of roses and couldn't jump a five-barred gate
if she would.
	The Paris Exposition will open on May 5th,
1889. General W. B. Franklin, the American
Commissioner general to that Exposition, has
opened the United States Government's office at
No. 35 Wall Street, New York.
	The Sunday Chronicle San Francisco, re-
sents Mrs. Howe's astonishment at the "intel-
lectual level" of her California audi-
ences, which she said in printed correspondence
was higher than I had dared to hope."
	Miss A. L. Wilson, general manager of The
San Francisco Breeder and Sportsman, is one
of the best-informed persons in America on
the pedigrees and history of trotting horses.
She is also an able writer on turf matters gener-
ally.
	The highest classical honor in the London
University has this year for the first time fallen
to a woman, Miss Mary Louise Worley, of
Girton College, who gained the gold medal in 
classes at the annual examination for the M. A.
degree.
	A Parisian Duchess has bettered Sarah
Bernhardt's tiger cub by adopting a real
panther as a pet. She keeps it in a long cage,
and gives it sun and air on the veranda, where
she feeds it herself, stroking it through the
bars of the cage as she does so.
	A case involving the right of women to hold
office in Iowa has just been decided. Miss
Ella S. Brown was an independent candidate
for the office of superintendent of public
schools and being counted out declared a con-
test The special count showed that she was 
elected. Then the other party appealed on
the ground that a woman lacks the right to
contest for office, but Judge Weaver held that
she has the right and the case was decided in
Miss Brown's favor.—Ex

[Column 2]

	If I did not believe in women voting, I
would never lusten to their advice; and I give 
it as a life's experience that the only serious
mistakes I have made have been when I did
not take the advice of one of the sweetest
women that ever lived. An individual whose
advice on political questions is good, should
at least have the privelege of putting it into prac-
tice.—Geo. R. Scott.
	There are men who dislike to hear anything
in favor of women voting, because they then
"Lose their softness." Women are "too fine for
anything so coarse as politics," they say; but it
never offends them to see women down on their
hands and knees scrubbing out men's dirty
offices. They are not too fine for that. If the
"pool of politics" be any dirtier than their
floors, I for one am not aware of it. Whenever
I see the scrub women toiling away, I think of
these thoughtful souls who want to protect
women from everything save work too menial
for men to perform,—New North West.
	Mrs. Harriet G. Brooks died June 27th, after
a painful illness. Mrs. Brooks was prominent
in the early stages of the women's suffrage
movement in Michigan from 1856 onwards.
She was for years secretary of the local and 
state suffrage associations, and during the years
of her residence in Chicago she attended the
meetings of the National Association at Wash-
ington. During her subsequent residence in
Nebraska she continued her active work, and
in 1882 she pleaded for women's suffrage before
the legislature of the state. She was also a
leader in other social questions, and was en-
gaged in literary pursuits. her loss will be
widely felt by a large circle of friends.—Ex.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERlES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes, 
	112,	114,	116,	118 East Temple Street

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[-]E
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Order from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1888.	NO.7.


THE RED-ROOT AND MORNING
GLORY.

At the close of the sunny hours,
	As the moon rose in the sky,

I went to refresh my flowers,
	For the air was hot and dry.

"Why should this weed by growing
	Here at the top of the bed,
To drink of the draught I am throwing,
	To my sweet flowers?" I said.

Then sat down my empty bucket,
	And took hold of the weed,
Up by the roots to pluck it,
	Ere it should scatter its seed.

But I paused, for close around it
	A morning glory twined;
There, before I had found it,
	Two lives were in one combined.

In the weed, I seemed to discover,
	And the vine which around it clung,
A brave, though uncouth lover,
	And a maiden fair and young.

I could not commit the slaughter,
	So I said to the Red-root, "Live,
And drink still of the water
	Which I to my flowerets give.

Had I been more alive to my duty,
	And displaced you long ago,
This gentle, delicate beauty
	Had learned without you to grow."

Here's a lesson for many mothers—
	Look well to your daughers needs;
Don't leave them to cling to others,
	Who may prove to be but weeds.

The Red-root and Morning-glory,
	In this flower-bed of ours,
Repeat the old, old story—
	Parents, protect your flowers!

		LULA,
July 27th, 1888.


[Column 1]

[For the EXPONENT.]
THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

PART IV.

WOMEN IN MEDICINE.
	"Once upon a time," says Herodotus, "in the
land of the wise there were no doctors," and,
we might add, once upon a time, not very
long ago, there were no women doctors, either
in the land of the wise, or any other land; but
behold the great change. Mankind have at
last awakened to the reality that we can not
only have women doctors, but that they are a
positive necessity. It is woman's nature to
lean to the ideal, the romantic, the pleasurable
side of life, to study literature, art and music,
to enjoy society in its happy phases, but
science, with its vast depths and difficulties,
has neither been sought nor desired by women
generally, and even if desired, the doors of
science have been closed in the faces of woman-
kind until a recent period. Even now, when
women are admitted into medical colleges, and
granted degrees, the majority of medical socie-
ties refuse admittance to women physicians.
Sydney Smith says it takes more time for a
women to make herself charming, than to make
herself learned, yet we know a woman who
has not only found time to be charming, but

[Column 2]

learned as well, and most of the readers of the
EXPONENT know her, too, for the good she has
done in the midst of the women of Utah.
	Romania B. Pratt was the first Utah woman
to devote herself to the study of medicine. She
one day saw a friend die, die for the want of
medical assistance. She says: "I saw her lying
on her bed, her life slowly ebbing away, and
no one near knew how to ease her pain or pre-
vent her death; it was a natural enough case,
and a little knowledge might have saved her.
Oh, how I longed to know something to do,
and at that moment I solemnly vowed to my-
self never to be found in such a position again,
and it was my aim ever afterward to arrange
my life-work that I might study the science
which would relieve suffering, appease pain,
prevent death."
	Mrs. Pratt was an educated, accomplished
young woman, and was very fond of music, an
accomplishment which she has utilized most
beneficially since becoming a physician, for
she says through practicing on the piano keys
her fingers attained a delicate touch, which is
quite necessary to a physician, especially in
operating on that tenderest organ, the eye,
one of her specialties. Mrs. Pratt entered the
Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia in
1873, and graduated four years later, 1877.
In the summer vacation between the college
terms of 1876-77 she filled the position as
student in the New England Hospital for
women and children in Boston, which she re-
garded as a very great privilege and advantage
to her. But not yet satisfied, she remained
sometime longer in Philadelphia, taking special
courses on the eye and ear at Willis' Hospital,
and a dispensary on Chestnut Street. After
leaving Philadelphia, she spent some time in
visiting Hydropathic institutions and hospitals,
remaining some weeks in the Elmira Water
Cure. In 1881-2 Mrs. Pratt again went East,
this time to the New York eye and ear Infirm-
ary, to further her knowledge in this speciality.
Dr. Pratt is an assiduous worker, and has done
incalculable good, not alone with her practice,
which is quite extensive and successful, but in
teaching to others. Ever since her return
from Philadelphia, she has had classes in
obstetrics, about twice a year or more, her
pupils coming mostly from the smaller settle-
ments, where there were no competent physi-
cians, and good midwives were a positive neces-
sity. Some seventy-five women have studied
under her instruction, and most of them have
passed a thorough examination under the
leading physicians of the city, thus obtaining
certificates authorizing them to practice in
midwifery. Dr. Pratt urged the necessity of a
Hospital almost immediately after her return
from college, and since the founding of the
Deseret Hospital, has been an earnest worker
in its behalf, and now most faithfully and
satisfactorily occupies the position of Resident
Physician.
	Notwithstanding all Dr. Pratt has accom-
plished, her life-work is scarcely begun, for,
still young and full of energy, her labors con
tinue incessantly, and her great desire for
knowledge compels her to devote much time to
study, that she may improve every passing
hour. With all her practice and study, the
Doctor often finds a few moments for music,
painting and light needle work. Her charm-
ing countenance, the picture of health and en-
joyment, draws one naturally towards her, and

[Column 3]

her busy life seems as happy as it is useful.
May it long continue so.
	Almost at the same time, or shortly after,
Dr. Pratt began the study of medicine, there
were others who saw the necessity of women
physicians in Utah, and who were filled with a
desire to become proficient in the profession.
What has been said of Dr. Pratt's work in
medicine, might also be said of the other lady
physicians, with little difference concerning
specialties, etc.
	Ellis R. Shipp was the second Mormon
woman to graduate in medicine. She left
home in 1875, and received her degree in
1878. Mrs. Shipp had been always much de-
voted to her home and family, and it was a
great effort for her to leave her home and
young children for so long a time, but she
realized the great benefit which must follow
the separation, not only to them and herself,
but to others, and she overcame her tender
longings for home and the hearthstone, for the
good she might do. The poet says, "The ten-
derest are the bravest," and Mrs. Shipp has
proven it true. While ardently engaged in
her studies at college, and attending the
lectures and operations in the surgery, Mrs.
Shipp was in delicate health. She passed
through, with proud and faithful resignation,
the hopeful, anxious time of motherhood, giv-
ing birth, while still at college, to a beautiful
child, on the 25th of May, 1877. As soon as
her attendants allowed, she was again engaged
in her studies, with her little new born babe
constantly near, that she might care for her,
herself. In the face of this devotion, who can
say that science for women ruins the home;
nor did the love and care of the child hinder
in any way the progress of the mother's studies,
but, on the contrary, the new life, the new joy
but enhanced the pleasure of the college life,
and Mrs. Shipp obtained as high a degree and
in as short a period as others who had no
children near to engage their time and atten-
tion. She left college not without her degree,
but with the highest compliments and recom-
mendations from the professors.
	Returning home, Dr. Ellis Shipp spent some
time lecturing through southern Utah, and
found many occasions on her way for practis-
ing her profession; also saw the great necessity
for classes in obstetrics, and later, when open-
ing her practice in Salt Lake, she gave instruc-
tions, and some sixty women have graduated
from her classes, passing successful examina-
tions under the leading physicians. The Dr.
is very popular, especially among her patients,
for her beautiful sympathetic bearing consoles
the suffering one, while her great self-control
and dignity gives one the most perfect confi-
dence in her ability. Mrs. Ellis Shipp has re-
fined and literary tastes, and she occasionally
rests her busy mind by revelling in the
pleasures of the Muses, and the EXPONENT
sometimes receives a beautiful gift from her
pen. Her poems are always pretty, and cause
one to wish she had more time for cultivating
her poetic talent. Dr. Ellis is at present
engaged, aside from her practice and classes, in
publishing a medical journal, in connection
with Dr. Maggie Shipp, the only medical
journal in Utah, and so, of course, what time 
she has for literary work is at present employed
on her own paper. The practice of medicine
is much the same to one as another, and it is
difficult to narrate the different physicians'
work without constant repetitions, for our lady


[Column 1]

physicans have mostly been similarly situated,
have alike seen the great field awaiting them,
and have been charming, intellectual women,
thirsting for more knowledge, and with minds
not only ready for science, but eager to grasp
every opportunity for it.
	T. W. Higginson says: "Women peculiarly
need science, since their natural bent is sup-
posed to be a little the other way." This may
be, generally speaking, true, but our third lady
graduate in medicine is an exception; her
natural bent always seemed to be towards
science—Mattie Paul Hughes—a bright, beau-
tiful, attractive girl, whose society was eagerly
sought, on account of her intellectual qualities,
her wit and her pleasant bearing.
	Miss Hughes was naturally a leader among
her friends, possessed of strong and good
opinions and an independent nature. She be-
gan when quite a child to earn her own
money, commencing early at type setting, in
which work she rapidly became proficient.
The day taken up in work, gave her little
time for study and much less for pleasure, but,
too ambitious to idle away an hour of time,
she spent all the spare moments in hard study.
Miss Hughes took a course in chemistry at the
Deseret University, and studied obstetrics and
medicine under Dr. Pratt, in the meantime
depriving herself of many pleasures and
fancies girls of her age so much enjoy, and
saving her earnings for furthering her advance-
ment in medicine.
	In 1878 Miss Hughes left her home and
entered the Michigan University at Ann
Arbor, where, after two years, she graduated
as an M. D During her vacations at Ann
Arbor, she practised her profession, thus earning
means to attend the State University of Penn-
sylvania, and in two years graduated there-
from as a Bachelor of Science, the only
woman in the graduating class. She also
graduated with honors from the National
School of Elocution and Oratory in Philadel-
phia, and spent much time in preparing her-
self for literary work and lecturing.
	Miss Hughes for some time very satisfactor-
ily held the position of Resident Physician at
the Deseret Hospital, and has always been held
in high regard among the medical fraternity.
Her career has been onward and upward almost
without a halt. Full of ambition, she found
no obstacle, for her fearlessness and self-mastery
would not allow her to hesitate, and her rapid
progress has been mostly due to her great
strength of character, which carried her
through every difficulty on to victory. Miss
Hughes now, aside from her practice, enjoys
the position of Lady Instructress at the Salt
Lake Stake Academy, a position she is sure to
fill with the utmost grace.
	Among the bravest of our women doctors,
those who have fought a battle all their lives
against adverse circumstances, and now in the
glories of science finds rest and pleasure, must
be mentioned Dr. Elvira S. Barney. Her life
is so full of daring, enduring, suffering, help-
ing,  working chapters, that in this brief paper
we dare scarcely glance back over the interest-
ing pages, and as we have before mentioned
this lady among the educators and missionaries,
must here only relate some of her medical ex-
periences.
	It was rather late that she chose the profes-
sion of medicine, but in it she has been very
successful nevertheless. After some few years
spent in self-instruction in chemistry and
medicine, and also pursuing a course of
chemistry in the Deseret University in this
city, Mrs. Barney decided to go to the East to
further promote her studies, and there entered
first the University at Ann Arbor, and subse-
quently other colleges, in Wisconsin and Penn-
sylvania, returning home in 1883, ready to
enter upon her practice. One of the most un-
selfish and philanthropic acts of her life was, 

[Column 2]

when shortly after her return home, full of zeal
to do good, she fitted up her large house for
lady boarders, and invited all who desired to
come to a shelter under her roof, where she
would give gratuitous preparatory instruction
for one year, hoping many young women 
would take advantage of this opportunity, and
thus begin a life of usefulness.
	There have been many other women who
have taken delight in the pursuit of medical
science, and one of the most popular and
efficient practitioners is Dr. Margaret C. Shipp.
She went East to Philadelphia to the Woman's
Medical College of Penn. in the fall of 1875.
Returning home during vacation, she remained
some time, then returned, and graduated in the
spring of 1882, and has ever since enjoyed a large
practice; has lectured in nearly every settlement
in this Territory; also taught classes in obstet-
rics, having qualified nearly forty ladies to act
as skillfull nurses and competent obstetricians.
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp has a classical
head and face, and possesses very rare
qualities of heart and mind, and with a
sincere love for her chosen profession, must
necessarily meet with great success. She is
socially a charming lady, deep religious con-
victions and a very magnetic nature, one
naturally feels drawn towards her, and her
patients almost feel for her the love and confi-
dence that a child holds in its mother.
	Necessity, positions of dependence, unhappy
homes and such things, sometimes urge child-
ren forth in the world to seek a livlihood and
independence, but it seldom occurs  that those
raised in the lap of luxury, with willing and
loving parents and friends always ready to
shower the pleasures and accomplishments,
that only wealth can buy, upon them, rush
forth from the luxurious home to battle and
struggle with a difficult science, yet Utah
boasts at least three such rash (?) maidens, and
now counts them among the medical fraternity
successful in their professions as they are
beautiful and charming in their appearance—
Miss Emma Atkin, the Misses Belle and Justina
Anderson, The former began her medical
studies under Dr. Pratt, and graduated from
the Philadelphia College. Since her return
home she has found a large practice in Juab
County, feeling that Salt Lake was crowded
with physicians, and she could be of more use
in an outer settlement; but her practice is not
confined to the one county; so proficient has
she proven to be in her profession, that she is
sent for from distant settlements. Strange, in-
deed, does it seem to see a lady so young travel-
ing hither and thither in all sorts of weather
and all sorts of conveyances, with her cases of
instruments and medicine, striving to aid and
relieve the suffering. So youthful, with her
frank, happy smile and guileless ways, did Miss
Atkin appear when she began her medical
career, that she seemed indeed, a child.
	The Misses Anderson, daughters of a most
learned physician, early began the study of
Latin under their father's instruction, and as-
sisted him some in his laboratory and his chemi-
cal operations. They found the greatest
delight in their father's study, and as children
at play learned more than many do at hard
study. The older, Miss Belle, soon after her
graduating from Ann Arbor, began practice
for herself at home, and has not only built up
a practice of importance, but has greatly assisted
her father, whose health is very poor. Miss
Justina was one year at Wellesley College,
where she took a literary course of study,
after which she attended the Michigan Univer-
sity, and emerged therefrom a full-fledged M.
D. Her future bids fair to be very bright,
and she is likely to become as successful and
as popular as her sister.
	There are many lady graduates from the
classes of the Drs. Pratt and Shipp who have

[Column 3]

extensive practice in the outer settlements, and
who are preparing to take a further course in
some eastern college. Among these we will men-
tion only one, Mrs. Mary E. Vanschoonhoven,
who is about ready to enter college. She has
been very industrious in her studies, and has,
even without a diploma, gained a large practice.
Her knowledge of medicines is very good, as
she was for some time dispensary clerk in the
Deseret Hospital. We have mentioned quite
an army of medical women, and still have,
doubtless, omitted some just as proficient, just
as successful, but our endeavor has been to
bring forth those women who, if not born in
Utah, have spent the greater part of their lives
here.
	They all are leading women in the com-
munity, and stand high in the regard of the
people. Their lives are devoted to a great
and holy work. Where they enter none others
can; they behold that happiest moment in
woman's life, when the agonizing pain is lost,
in the joy of a child just given; they enter the
darkened chamber, where the raging fever
claims the mind and aims to seize the body of
its victim, and they contend and fight this
dreadful foe, and by their skill see a mind re-
stored, a body saved; they are found when sud-
den accidents befall one, replacing the disjointed,
broken bones, and giving such happiness to
the afflicted, as only one can give who restores
or mends the body. Their work is noble and
sublime, and must for these very reasons give
them happiness and pleasure. Success and
glory attend you—women doctors.
	In other of the higher professions the women
of Utah have little representation. In law
there is, I believe, only one who ever was ad-
mitted to the bar—Miss Georgie Snow—and
she never practiced very extensively, spending
most of her time aiding her father in his work
—himself a lawyer. In Art and Music there
are scores of young women among us, who
have shown great ability and talent, but they
confine their work mostly to the ornamenting
of their own homes and the entertainment of
their friends, and as yet none of them have
chosen the work which so delights them, as a
profession.
	Utah boasts of her fair fields, her beautiful
gardens, her magnificent scenery, her generous
climate, her brave men and her many and
bright children; let her boast of her women,
too, for have we not here made a fair compari-
son of woman's work in Utah with woman's
work so praised at the National Council, which
is yet ringing through the land? Can any one
sister State out-rival us in woman's work?
	It seems to be the aim among the people of
Utah to advance womankind beyond the ordin-
ary paths, and cause her to become more inde-
pendent, more self-assisting, more progressive.
	Addison says:
	"I have often thought there has not been
sufficient pains taken in finding out proper em-
ployment and diversions for the fair ones. Their
amusements seem contrived for them, rather
as they are women than as they are reasonable
creatures, and are more adapted to the sex
than to the species. The toilet is their great
scene of business.	*	*	*	Their
more serious occupations are sewing and em-
broidery, and their greatest drudgery the pre-
paration of jellies and sweetmeats.
	"This, I say, is the state of ordinary woemn;
though I know there are multitudes of those
of a more elevated life and conversation, that
move in an exalted sphere of knowledge and
virtue, that join all the beauties of the mind
to the ornaments of dress, and inspire a kind
of awe and respect, as well as love."	*	*
	We claim the latter paragraph, Addison's
exception, to be the character of the women of
Utah.
		ANNIE W. CANNON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FROM HOME.

I've been wishing to see mother's garden,
	With a wish that was almost a prayer,
And to see the dear face that there hovers,
	That to me is so loved and so fair,
So to-day, when she sent me "a posie"
	Of the flowers I love so well,
It seemed 'twere sent from heaven
	To break my heart from the spell
That was weaving itself around me
	With a sombreness, chill and gloom-
They were faded and almost scentless,
	But they brought  a message from home!

We cannot always live with the flowers,
	Nor be sheltered within the home nest;
We're oft tempted by Love's allurements,
	And 'tis often stern Duty's behest.
But there's times when the heart grows aweary,
	And when duty seems almost a thrall,
It is then we turn with longing
	To the most loved place of all.

Would that every tried heart now in exile
	Could be cheered to-day as mine
With a token of love from loved ones
	That would give such love divine.
But they cannot, so God grant that blossoms
	Wherever they dwell may bloom,
And to comfort, cheer and bless them,
	Be ladened with "dear home" perfume.
		E. T.
June 15th, 1888


THE CROSS OF LIGHT.

One summer eve, as I sat musing
	In the shade, at close of day.
My wandering thoughts, without my choosing,
	Seemed to woe my soul away
To the early days of childhood,
When I roamed by stream and darkwood,
Joyous as the day is long,
Mocking oft the wild-bird's song.

Half awake, yet partly dreaming,
	Shadowy spectres rose to view,
As upon a mirror gleaming,
	Seemed to pass me in review
All my life its many phases
All its tangles, and its mazes,
All its struggles after good,
All its wildness unsubdued.

Sometimes strong, sometimes prevailing
	In the battle field of life,
Often beaten back, and failing,
	Ignobly falling in the strife,
Still the shadow I pursued,
	Missing the substantial good;
Falling, yielding, struggling, rising,
	Almost lost in life's deep flood.

What was bare and false, despising,
	Loving what was pure and good:
Yet in my heart there lurks a treason,
Sojourns there against my reason,
To drive my better self away,
And give my passions all their sway.
"Father, most merciful, in heaven,"
	Prayed I in my soul's great pain,
"Shall this life which Thou hast given
	After all be lived in vain?
Must its hopes and its aspirings,
All its longing and desirings,
All its searching after light,
Be counted nothing in Thy sight?"

Then in the air there came a clashing,
	Like sweet bells at eventide,
While the slanting sunbeams flashing
	Lighted up the mountain's side,
And formed upon its summit hoary
A cross of light and golden glory,
Till beams of light and rush of sound
Filled all the throbbing space around.

Then o'er my spirit stole a feeling
	Which soothed me with its holy


Like when on wounded flesh, with healing,
	Are poured sweet drops of precious balm.
"Then," said I, "as from morn to even
Moves the sun through cloudless heaven,
Oh, may my chequered life, when past,
Rest safely on the cross at last."
		M. A. YOULTON GREENHALGH.
Meadow, August 13, 1888.


[Column 1]

HAND-CART SPEECH.

BY BETSEY SMITH GOODWIN.

	How well I remember when mother said:
"Girls, let us try and get to the valley next
season with the hand-carts. I have got a letter
from your brother Robert; he has worked his
passage as cook over the sea, he has driven a
team across the plains. and has arrived safe in
Salt Lake City; he bids us exert ourselves to
emigrate next year. He says he will pray
while we work." We thought he had the
easiest job. Well, we worked at our looms by
day and our fancy work by night, and on
Saturday we sold the proceeds. God blest us
with health and labor; He softened the hearts
of our employers, and in many ways we could
see and realize. that God helps those who help
themselves. We earned and saved enough in
six months to pay our passage across the sea,
and on the 2nd day of May, in the beautiful
month of May, 1856, we left the shores of
Great Britain, our beloved native land.
	After five weeks sailing, sea sickness and
stormy weather, we landed in New York, thence
to Iowa by rail; there we camped six weeks,
waiting for the hand carts to be completed, and
it was the first week in August ere we rolled
out of Iowa to cross the dreary plains for our
home with the Saints in Utah. My little
brother used to travel twenty and twenty-four
miles in a day. We soon got used to travel,
and while fair weather and full rations lasted
we were all right. We traveled five weeks,
never stopping for Sunday; then we were in the
buffalo country; our cattle that hauled the pro-
vision wagons, and the cows were stampeded,
and we camped there five days trying to find
the cattle; most of them were never found; our
captain then thought we had done wrong in not
stopping to worship on Sunday. After that we
kept the Sabbath day of rest for all.
	Each cart had to its load of luggage one
 hundred pounds of flour, on account of our
loss of cattle, now we were, in September, on
half rations and cold weather. But we never
forgot to sing, "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil
nor labor fear." With great zeal and fervor,
many fell by the way, hoping to rise in the
First Resurrection of the Just. God grant it!
I will not dwell on the hardships we endured
with hunger and cold, but I like to tell how
many a storm raged to the right and to the
left of us, and did not molest us. One
circumstance I remember very clearly; my
mother was taken very sick with cramp
cholera, a very fatal trouble then; we  all felt
bad about mother. I remember thinking,
"Others are dying, and mother may die, and
what a dark world it will be without mother,"
and as I gathered the dry sage to make a fire,
I was crying. Mother met me and asked,
"What is the matter?" I told her how bad I
felt. She said: "Do not feel like that, but
pray for me; you and all the rest, and we will
get through. I have just been asking God to
spare our lives, so none of us will  be left  on the
way; and no matter what trials we have when
we get to the valley, I shall never murmur or
complain." God heard us, and I can say she
kept her word. We lived, and are living yet.
One more incident I will relate: One even-
ing we camped near a marshy meadow, which
abounded in springs and poison parsnips; every
one was elated; we had something good to eat
Alexander Burt was among the first to find

[Column 2]

them; he came to our camp-fire and commenced
to unload. Mother said: "Brother Burt, what
have you got?" "They are parsnips, Sister
Smith, a sort of white carrot; put on the pot
and let us have a good mess." "I will do that,"
said mother, and we cooked and ate our fill of
poison parsnips. I confess we felt like we had
eaten rocks, so heavy they were, and not only
us, but the whole camp ate of them. Our
captain arrived late at camp that night, and
when he found out what we had been eating,
he groaned aloud, and cried, "Put them down,
each one contains enough poison to kill an ox."
We were glad we had eaten ours, for we would
not have dared to eat any after that; he said it
would be one of the providences of the Al-
mighty if we were not all dead by morning.
We did not realize the truth of his words until
next morning one brother died; we supposed he
had eaten of them after he knew better. Now
we had one quarter of a pound of flour a day,
with neither salt or soda; some could hardly
wait to cook it. It was October, stormy and
cold. Soon the flour was all gone. Then
there were crackers for two days; then the
blessed boys of Utah met us with provisions.
They gathered our wood and made our camp
fires, and let us ride in their wagons; they found
time to do a little sparking, also, and many a
noble son and daughter can say, "My mother
was a hand-cart girl."
	Three miles this side of Green River, as I
was walking ahead of the the carts, leading my
little brother, encouraging him along with a
story of what we would get when we came to
the valley; he said: "Oh, Betsy, I wish when
we get to that creek we would meet Bob."
"Well, come along, may be we will." and when
we got to the top of the bank, we looked down
and saw a team with only one yoke of cattle
on; we had never seen the like before, so we
waited on the top until they would pass, and it
was our brother; he stared at us, and when he
halloed we knew his voice. He jumped off and
brought Mary Jane and Euphemia in his arms;
they had come up with the cart while little
Alex and I waited on the bank. How we wept
for joy. The cart was tied behind the wagon;
little Alex climbed in the wagon, as happy as a
king's son, instead of being a poor tired child.
The next question was, "Where is mother and 
Mary?" "They are behind somewhere, you
will find them by the road." Mother was still
sick, and when she stopped to rest, she had to
lie down, she could not sit up; some had died
that way; they would go to sleep like a tired
child and never wake up. Mary was afraid
mother would, and tried to arouse her by tell-
ing her there was a team coming with only one
yoke of cattle on. "Well, never mind; Mary,
don't bother me." "Well, mother, the man is
running this way; mother, it surely is Robert!"
"Oh, no, Mary, that would be too good to be
true." Well, she was soon convinced with tears
and kisses; he helped her in the wagon; then
she said, "I could not be more thankful to get
into the kingdom of heaven than I am to get
in this wagon."
	Then explanations followed. He told how
he had been sick with the mountain fever; how
he had got our letter saying we were coming,
and as soon as he could walk, he prepared to
come and meet us; he got cattle from one,
wagon and cover from another, provisions from
others. So we proved, "God helps those who
help themselves."
	Thurber, July 24, 1888.


The will of a French advocate contains the
following bequest: "I give 100,000 francs to
the local madhouse. I got this money out of
those who passed their lives in litigation; in
bequeathing it for the use of other lunatics I
only make a restitution."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms;
one copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 1, 1888.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	It would, perhaps, not be amiss to state that the
remarks made by Elder F. D. Richards concern-
ing the Relief Society, at the Memorial Meeting
held in the Ogden Tabernacle on the 19th of July,
1888, were predicated upon the sermon of the
Prophet Joseph, given at a meeting of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, April 28, 1842, and published
in the "Sermons and Writings of the Prophet
Joseph." Republished lately in the Utah Journal
at Logan, April 14th, 1888, and in the Deseret
Evening News of Saturday, July 28 (on its fly
leaf); also in the Semi-Weekly and Weekly News 
following; in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT of August 
15 and September 1, 1884, and in the "Contribu-
tor" August, 1882. The sisters who have any of 
these papers by them can easily refer to them, and
it would be well to reperuse them, as they contain
so much that is of importance to know. In the 
sixth paragraph President Smith said: "No matter 
who believeth, these signs, such as healing the 
sick, casting out devils, etc., should follow all
that believe, whether male or female. He asked
the Society if they could not see, by this sweeping 
promise, that wherein they are ordained, it is the
privilege of those set apart to adminisier in that
authority which is conferred upon them, and if
the sisters should have faith to heal the sick, let
all hold their tongues, and let everything roll on."


[Column 1]
	MEMORIAL ANNIVERSARY.

REPORT OF THE RELIEF SOICETY MEETING
	HELD IN THE OGDEN TABERNACLE, JULY 
	19TH, 1888, IN COMMEMORATION OF THE
	LAST PUBLIC VISIT AND INSTRUCTIONS OF
	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG, ON INVITA-
	TION OF PRESIDENT JANE S. RICHARDS, TO
	 THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND YOUNG LADIES'
	IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS OF THE
	WEBER STAKE OF ZION, JUST ELEVEN
	YEARS AGO THE 19TH INST.

	(REPORTED BY JOHN M WHITTAKER.)

			[Continued.]
	Sister Elmina S. Taylor, Territorial President
of Y. L. M. I. A., said:
	In standing before you, I ask an interest in your
faith and prayers, that I may have strength of
 voice to enable you to hear the few remarks I
may make.  While I have been sitting here to-day,
I have had very peculiar feelings.  The last time
I was upon this stand, we had our beloved sister,
Eliza R. Snow Smith, with us. To-day I have
felt that not only her spirit was here listening,
prompting and influencing us, but that the spirit of
our beloved Prophet, Brigham Young, was here.
It is a proud day for this Stake of Zion. I feel

[Column 2]
thankful that God, our Heavenly Father, spared
Sister Richards to live to this time, and has in-
spired her to celebrate this anniversary; for to us,
the sisters of Zion, this is a great day—to think
that we have been organized into Stakes in the 
capacity that we have in order that the work may 
be more completely carried on, and in order that
there may be a nucleus around which other Stakes
may cluster, and one who shall oversee the inter-
ests of that Stake in the capacity of a President.
This is another of the institutions that God in-
spired each great and good man, Brigham Young,
to organize, and adds to that perfect system and 
organization in this Church. It is great and beau-
tiful, complete in all its departments.  Can you
look around you, upon the face of the whole earth,
and find another such institution, where everything
works in harmony—where we have a head that
can guide and direct all the affairs of the 
Church, and from the head we follow down and
see how perfectly everything is organized. There
need no one clash with the interests of another,
but all are working in their respective spheres;
there is harmony, there is order, and this is the
greatest work that ever was set to be accomplished,
and is to be accomplished through this order and 
organization. I bear my testimony of its divinity.
I know there is no other source through which 
this perfect order and system could come, than
the revelation of Almighty God. I believe
they have, that is the Relief Soceity and the
Y. L. M. I. A., been revealed of God; and I feel
that we, as the women of Zion, have been blessed
above all other women upon the face of the earth.
And it is with these blessings that follows the re-
sponsibilities.  We should be models—women
that the whole world might pattern after for purity,
virtue, integrity and faithfulness in keeping the
commandments of God. For God has indeed
blessed us and exalted us, as women in His crea-
tion. We have our own position. We are unlike
the rest of the world asking for our rights. We
have them given to us of God, the Eternal Father.
And we have our own position marked out for us;
and, my sisters, I know that every true woman
desires to keep her position. We know that God 
created man as our head. We wish to honor him
in that position.  But we have our rights and
privileges, and positions of trust, and we have re-
sponsibilities as great as any of our brethren. As
has been said this morning, there is no greater re-
sponsibility in humanity than rests upon mothers;
and our daughters have responsibilities also.
That is the purpose of the Young Ladies meet-
ings, to prepare them for the great future which
they are expected to occupy.  The kingdom is
growing, notwithstanding that our enemies are
doing all they can against us, still the work is 
rolling on; and we, as sisters of the Relief Society,
and members of the Y. L. M. I. A. throughout
Zion, we have our part to perform; and it is no
light matter we have to perform. We have an
influence, as a people; and the women have an in-
fluence that is felt for good; and the President of
our Stake has said, he is proud of the women
who have stood up under trials and persecutions,
and have maintained their position and have given
their all and been firm and faithful at all times. I
heard one of the Apostles say that he did not
know any of the sisters who had turned their
backs upon the principles God had established—
that they preferred to go to prison, rather than
betray their husbands and deny that which had
been entrusted to them. 
	I know among the young daughters of Zion
there are many noble spirits, who are preparing
themselves for the great and mighty work of the
future. They are preparing themselves for wives 
and mothers, for the highest glory of woman is to
be a mother. They are preparing themselves and
educating themselves for their great mission in
the principles of the Gospel; but not only this:
[-]hey are acquiring an education in other depart-

[Column 3]
ments, and we shall see them become the brightest
and most polished shafts in the world of women
and among the daughters of Eve.
	May God bless and help us to stand in our
places, magnify our calling before Him. And if
we desire to do this, I believe He will inspire us
and assist us to walk in that path He has pointed 
out, that the seeds we sow may germinate and
spring up to become useful in assisting to roll off
the kingdom of God, and that through life and 
death we may be faithful, and at last earn an ex-
altation in the celestial kingdom of our God,
which I desire in the name of the Lord Jesus
Christ. Amen.
	Elder Samuel W. Richards then bore a power-
ful testimony of the truths which had been uttered
and of the great Latter-day work. He felt greatly
honored to have an invitation, and was gratified
to be present on so auspicious an occasion. He
recognized this occasion as of great import to the
sisters of Zion, and that it was a day long to be
remembered by those who were present. He
thought the question arose as to whether each one
was fulfilling the design of their great creation, in
struggling for the maintenance of virtue, peace 
and righteous works.
	Those who had known President Young, knew
him to be a man of superior intelligence, power
and mighty faith. Whatever he undertook to do,
he accomplished, and he has left a record that
will be read by millions yet unborn. To-day
his power and ability is unquestioned.  It is re-
cognized the wide world over, wherever his name
has been breathed.
	Elder R—— rejoiced at the progress of the
great Latter-day work; spoke in glowing words of 
his mission in England, when he was summoned 
before members of Parliament, where he then
bore his testimony to them in power.
	The speaker ever regarded, with a watchful eye,
the progress of this people and their mission so
great and vast. He earnestly invoked divine
blessings upon the ladies' societies and upon the
Church generally.
	Sister Herrick, of Weber County, said that she 
trusted the good instructions which had flowed so
freely to-day might be carried home to every
heart among the people of God, that the young
might sense their weighty obligations placed upon 
them at all times and improve the opportunities
that are presented. She loved to labor among
her sisters in doing good, and she trusted that 
what had been said might re[-]ound to the honor
 and glory of God. She felt to extend a welcome
hand to the visitors from Salt Lake, and trusted
the time would come when a reign of universal 
peace may be ushered in, and this people prepared
to enjoy the glories thereof.
	President F. D. Richards spoke as follows:
	Being called upon by the sisters to address you
for a short time this afternoon, I wish to introduce
my remarks by first saying, that Sister Herrick,
who has just addressed you, is the Stake Prest.
of the Y. L. M. I. A. for Weber County, which,
perhaps, I should have stated at the opening of
her remarks.  She, therefore, spoke in behalf of
the Young Ladies of this Stake.
	One day this week, it was my privilege to be in
company with our beloved President Woodruff,
and with some other of the brethren who are asso-
ciated with him in a state of obscurity, and who
do not make their appearance in public assemblies.
I made mention of this occasion, with an invita-
tion, if it had been reasonable and consistent for
them, to meet with us. And inasmuch as they
felt that they could not, he bid me express his
love and good wishes to the sisters of the Relief
Society and the Young Ladies' Associations, and
any and all who might be present who love the
work in which we are engaged, and said it would
be impossible to attend, though he would like
to have done so exceeding much. He referred to
a very interesting party he attended here some


[Column 1]
years ago, given on the anniversary of Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith's birthday, which many of 
the Saints present, no doubt, remember.  He
thought it was the best sister's party he had ever
attended. 
	Our brethren, who are hidden from our society
for the present, are always solicitous and anxious
for the prosperity of the Church in all its various
departments; and they watch over every part of 
the work of which God has made them overseers, 
with the deepest solicitude, prayerfulness of heart 
and with earnestness for its prosperity. 
	I realize that I am addressing representative
ladies of the Weber Stake of Zion, presidents of 
the Relief Society and associations generally, and 
many others as well.  I always feel anxious when
I address my sisters to say something that shall
encourage them in their work; because they
naturally feel timid and backward and have a re-
luctance to assume public positions, or public
duties, because some think they are making them-
selves too officious in public, and that ladies have
no rights in public duties. 
	Some of the sisters feel intimidated in their
meetings when the brethren are present; while
others believe that if the brethren would attend
and give them counsel and encouragement, they
would be stronger and more able to launch out in 
the liberty of the spirit and discharge the duties
incumbent upon them with a consciousness and
heavenly assurance, that would result in the bless-
ings of God upon their labors.  It has been so 
from the beginning of this work that has been
laid upon the sisters; it has been looked upon by 
some of them as being something out of their line
and place.  Every now and again we hear men
speak tauntingly of the sisters and lightly of their
public duties instead of supporting and encourag-
ing them.  There are also some who look with
jealousy upon the moves of the sisters as though
they might come to possess some of the gifts, and
are afraid they will get away with some of the
blessings of the Gospel, which only men ought to 
possess.  That is the way some look upon woman
and her work.  They don't like to accord to them 
anything that will raise them up and make their
talents to shine forth as the daughters of Eve
and of Sarah.  But have feelings of envy and 
jealousy; and instead of dealing open handedly
with them, tell them to go forward and do all the
good they can, it seems as though they would like 
to keep them back and not let them do anything,
—more than is really necessary.
	I am sorry to see this feeling.  The brethren
should understand and see that in so doing
they are opposing themselves.  Inasmuch as the
sisters do not arrogate authority to themselves
I think the brethren, by hindering them, withhold
blessings from themselves; if they would work
with the sisters they would be more abundantly
blessed.  The Presidents and Bishops would
realize multiplied blessings upon their own heads. 
Is it not more honorable for a king to rule over a 
wealthy and noble race, than one reduced to 
poverty, ignorance and serfdom?  Is it not more
honorable to preside over a nation that is enlight-
ened, intelligent and enterprising?  Is it not much
more glorious and honorable to preside over
those who are full of faith, who are active in good
works, and who are filled with the power of God?
Certainly it is.  When the sisters have the spirit
of their work upon them, they will labor with an
honest zeal in the midst of their societies, and it 
adds blessings thereto.  There is no Bishop that
encourages and supports an institution of this
kind, but who realizes and must acknowledge that
these sisters in their different callings, lessen his
labors, make easy his calling and add to the effi-
ciency of his Stake or ward.  The Bishops
who do this will be blessed and are blessed at all
times. 
	When I arise to teach the sisters, I am benefit-
ting the teachers and the authorities of the Church

[Column 2]
in Zion.  I do not feel at any time to withhold
or be reluctant in instructing or speaking well of
them and their labors in the Church.  I know
that many are afraid to go ahead and do anything
without instructions, for fear they may do wrong. 
And they thus are prevented from doing many
things that would materially assist the cause, for
fear they may do wrong. 
	Sisters, do right.  Where you desire to launch
out and do right, do so, and God will sanctify your
labors to the good of your sisters, and also the
good of the brethren; and you will make your hus-
bands far more useful wives.  You will have more
obedient daughters, more dutiful children; child-
ren that are more affectionate, true, honorable, 
faithful, and who, in their turn, will make more
honorable husbands and more dutiful wives. 
	I wish to say to you this afternoon, sisters
of the Relief Society and of the Young Ladies' 
Associations, that while it is expected of you
that you will visit the sick, that you shall see to it
that none of the brethren and sisters suffer from 
poverty or for the want of the necessaries of life, 
while it is your duty and privilege to minister to 
each other and those around you, and even when 
life has departed, you are to look after them and
see that they have proper clothing and burial—I
say, while you have these duties continually
upon you, you have other privileges and rights,
which are known to us and the people in general. 
It is pleasing to hear the Bishops report to the
quarterly conferences the faithfulness of the
Relief Society, and the aid they have derived from
them, the relief they find by having them to call
upon them for aid, and the efficient manner in 
which they respond to every need. 
	The Relief Society of Weber Stake raised be-
tween $500 and $600, and gave it as a donation to 
help finish the Logan Temple—a nice little item, 
which the building committee acknowledged with
gratitude, and every name of those who donated
was written in the records of the Temple. 
	In looking over the lists, I find that there is
considerable over $500 donated by the Weber
societies towards finishing the Manti Temple. 
The donations from this Stake on the Manti
Records, cover eighty pages, and over forty lines
to a page, and has on each line the name of the
person and the amount paid. 
	Sisters, tell it to your children at home, that in 
these records is contained over $100, paid by the
little ones of the Primaries; and each boy or 
girl has their name written there, credited to a 
nickle, dime or quarter, as the case may be, and it 
shows who have contributed anything to assist in 
the completion of that beautiful building.  These
records will be placed in the Temple at Manti, 
and will be kept as a perpetual remembrance. 
	Besides this, the Relief Society of Weber
Stake, during the past six years, or there
about, since the Deseret Hospital was organ-
ized into an association, has contributed, as near
as I can recollect, something over one thousand
dollars to help maintain and conduct that chari-
table institution.  Some months ago we made ap-
plication to the Secretary to give us a statement of 
the number of cases, the kind of affliction, what
number got well, what number died, the amount
expended, the amount received, etc., etc., in order
that it may be known how it stands, what good it
has done, and the status of the association at the
present time, in order that it may receive the at-
tention and encouragement it should have. I 
have been told repeatedly what you have a right
to know, that Weber County has been second to 
none, or only one among the Stakes, who have
donated for its support.
	In all these lists there is contained in the re-
cords concerning the Manti Temple and other
things, no less than 3,400 names from this Stake
of Zion. 
	The sisters of the Relief Society at the present
time, feel very much the loss of their President

[Column 3]
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith.  Sister Eliza having
passed away, after an illness of more than a year, 
during which she was unable to attend public
meetings.  Sister Zina D. Young, her successor, 
is absent for a short time, but is expected home
soon, when she will visit the different branches of 
the Society, attend to her duties and give advice, 
as Sister Eliza used to do. 
	This is a great work.  It is a vast auxiliary.  It
is one of those things spoken of in the Scriptures
as "helps" to the government of the kingdom of 
God.  Sisters, be diligent in all things, no matter
how the brethren may look upon you.  Your
organization is just as important as any other in 
the Church, outside of the priesthood.  It has
been instituted by the highest authority on earth
in this dispensation.  It was appointed and estab-
lished by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo. 
I am glad that there are some here to-day who
were there at that meeting, and who listened to 
the instructions of the Prophet of God. Sister
Eliza was Secretary at the time of the organiza-
tion.  Sister Emma Smith was the presiding
officer of that institution, and she was blessed
under the hands of Presidents Joseph Smith and
John Taylor, to expound the Scriptures and ad-
minister to the Saints in this holy office and presi-
dency. 
	I wish to make a few remarks concerning it and
its significance, as it appears to me, for the
encouragement of the sisters; and in doing so, I
shall refer to some of the sayings of the Prophet
Joseph in instituting it.  In April, 1842, 
he made an appointment with the Relief
Society in the city of Nauvoo.  He attended
that meeting and lectured to the sisters himself. 
There are several present here to-day, who were
there and heard him speak, as did also myself. 
Here are Presendia L. Kimball, Bathsheba W. 
Smith, Jane S. Richards, and if I could mention
them all, there would be quite a number here who
were members of that Society. 
	The Prophet Joseph treated upon the gifts and 
blessings of the priesthood to be enjoyed by all
those who believed, and also upon the character
of the work devolved upon its members.  And he
read, concerning the blessings which he wanted
them to understand, were theirs if they would live
for them.  He read a portion of the 16th chapter of 
St. Mark, where it says:  "Go ye into all the 
world and preach the Gospel to every creature. 
He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; 
but he that believeth not shall be dammed. And
these signs shall follow them that believe:  In my
name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak
with new tongues; they shall take up serpents;
and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not
hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick and
they shall recover."
	He said, in relation to the females administer-
ing to the sick, that there could be no more wrong
in it, than in performing any other ordinance of 
the Church if the Lord gave His sanction by
healing the sick under the hands of the sisters. 
	I will read from the minutes which were taken
on that occasion by Sister Eliza:
	"He continued to read the chapter, and give in-
structions respecting the different offices, and the
necessity of every individual acting in the sphere
allotted him or her, and filling the several offices
to which they were appointed. 
	"He said the reason of these remarks being
made was, that some little foolish things were 
circulating in the society, against some sisters not
doing right in laying hands on the sick.  Said if
the people had common sympathies they would re-
joice that the sick could be healed; that the time
had not been before that these things could be in 
their proper order; that the Church is not fully
organized, in its proper order, and cannot be, until
the Temple is completed, where places will be 
provided for the administration of the ordinances
of the Priesthood."
	Elder Richards here remarked:


[Column 1]
	This was just before he commenced giving 
endowments, and was hastening the work of the
Temple to get ready for it; and he says, that "as
he had this opportunity, he was going to instruct
the ladies of this Society, and point out the way
for them to conduct themselves, that they might
act according to the will of God; that he did not
know that he should have many opportunities of
teaching them, as they were going to be left to
themselves; they would not long have him to in-
struct them; that the Church would not have his
instructions long, and the world would not be
troubled with him a great while, and would not
have his teachings.
	"He spoke of delivering the keys of the Priest-
hood to the Church, and said that the faithful
members of the Relief Society should receive them
in connection with their husbands, that Saints whose
integrity has been tried and proved faithful, might
know how to ask the Lord and receive an answer;
for according to his prayers, God had appointed 
him elsewhere.
	"He exhorted the sisters always to concentrate
their faith and prayers for, and place confidence
in their husbands, whom God had appointed for
them to honor, and in those faithful men whom
God has placed at the head of the Church to lead 
His people; that we should arm and sustain them
with our prayers; for the keys of the kingdom are
about to be given to them, that they may be able
to detect everything false; as well as to all the 
Elders who shall prove their integrity in due sea-
son.
	"President Smith then gave instruction respect-
ing the propriety of females administering to the 
sick by the prayer of faith, and laying on of hands, 
or the anointing with oil; and said it was accord-
ing to revelation that the sick should be nursed
with herbs and mild food, and not by the hand of
an enemy. Who are better qualified to administer
than our faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts
are full of faith, tenderness, sympathy, and com-
passion? No one. Said he was never placed in
similar circumstances before, and never had given
the same instruction; and closed his instructions
by expressing his heartfelt satisfaction in improv-
ing this opportunity.
	"The Spirit of the Lord was poured out in a 
a very powerful manner, never to be forgotten by
those present on this interesting occasion."
	Elder Richards continuing said: I ask
any and everybody present who have received
their endowments, whether he be a brother
Apostle, Bishop, High Priest, Elder, or what-
ever office he may hold in the Church, "What
blessings did you receive, what ordinance, what
power, intelligence, sanctification or grace did you
receive that your wife did not partake of with you?"
I will answer, that there was one thing that 
our wives were not made special partakers of, and
that was the ordination to the various orders of
the priesthood which were conferred upon us.
Aside from that, our sisters share with us any and
all of the ordinances of the holy anointing, en-
dowments, sealings, sanctifications and blessings
that we have been made partakers of.
	Now, I ask you: Is it possible that we have the
holy priesthood and our wives have none of it? Do
you not see, by what I have read, that Joseph 
desired to confer these keys of power
upon them in connection with their
husbands? I hold that a faithful wife has certain
blessings, powers and rights, and is made par-
taker of certain gifts and blessings and promises
with her husband, which she cannot be deprived
of EXCEPT BY TRANSGRESSION of the holy order
of God. They shall enjoy what God said they
should. And these signs shall follow them if they
believe.
	Moses said, when some one told him that a cer-
tain man was prophesying  in the camp, and the 
people thought he had no right to do so, Moses
replied saying: "I would to God that all of the

[Column 2]
Lord's people were prophets." So I say: I wish
all the sisters were so faithful that they were heal-
ers of the sick, through the power of God. Then
would their children have a foundation to grow up
from their youth in the fear and admonition of the 
Lord and in the power of His might. Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith learned some of these things
from the Prophet Joseph Smith; and as he was
the organizer of the Church of Christ, so she
went through the Territory organizing Relief So-
cieties, and did a wonderful work. She partook
of the power of her distinguished husband.
	Sisters, may the Lord bless you. Bishops, may
the Lord bless us all and give us the spirit of liber-
ality. The more we do for the sisters, the more 
they will do for us; and so may the Spirit of the
Lord bless us all with the feeling of liberality
to all, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Amen.
				To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DAUGHTER AND SISTER.
	There is nothing of which a mother is more
proud, than a good daughter.  An old proverb
says, and that truly, that "The son is son till
he is married, but the daughter is daughter
forever."  A good daughter is a bright light
and the life of every home;  all her interests
are centered in trying to make that home com-
fortable and pleasant for those she loves, being
under the gentle influence of a kind mother
she becomes the pride and ornament of her
hospitality, the lively companion in health, the
ever kind and loving nurse in times of sickness,
and the constant agent in those nameless, num-
berless acts of kindness which one chiefly cares
to have rendered because they are unpretend-
ing, but because they are all expressive proofs
of love.
	A daughter's first duty is to seek to do that
which will please and bring happiness to 
mother and all those who have her interest at
heart, and to shun all that would pain or dis-
please the peaceful influence that should per-
vade the happy fireside.  There are daughters
who give their mothers cares, labor and sorrow,
where they had a right to expect rest and re-
pose.
	As daughters of Latter-day Saints, born and 
reared under the everlasting covenant here in
Zion, and belonging to Improvement Associa-
tions, we should certainly learn our true
position as such, and bear in mind that next to
our Heavenly Father comes duty to the one
who is first to rejoice in our joy, and who truly
mourns when we are called upon to mourn.
The strongest proof of heartlessness and in-
gratitude young ladies can give is indifference
to a mother's comfort, happiness or sorrow.
The intercourse of sisters and brothers forms a
very important part in the happiness of home.
What a large and cherished place does a good
sister's love always hold in grateful remem-
brance of one who has been blessed with the
benefits of this relation, as she looks back to
the happy home of her childhood;  with what
profound security is confidence reposed in a
sister, and with that assurance that it will be
uprightly and considerately given, is her coun-
sel sought!  How many of us, when thrown in
temptation's way, stop to reflect what sister
would say, and let the holy influence of her
love check our evil thoughts and deeds.  Do
we comprehend the influence we can wield
over our brothers and sisters for good or bad,
if we exercise the same with a kindly feeling
and humble spirit, always seeking their pleasure
and careless of our own?  The most simple re-
quest of such a sister will keep the young
from doing that which they know to be wrong,
such as breaking the Sabbath day, and the
young men from chewing and drinking;  and
why?  Simply because they have respect and
affection for the one who made the request,

[column 2]
and their wishes become law.  A favor asked
by such will often be regarded as sacred, when
a more powerful appeal from other sources
would fall unheeded upon the heart.  We meet
many who are unfortunate in not having the
privilege of the association of brothers and
sisters, being called away to work, and all such
cheerfully respond to any behest made by those
who take any interest in them and their well-
being.
	Sisters', as well as brothers' characters, are
formed by the friends and companions they
choose to associate with while young.  There-
fore, it is of the utmost importance that we in-
terest ourselves in our brothers and sisters
while they are yet in their youth, by introduc-
ing them into good society, for good company
not only improves our manners, but also our
minds, and if we implant in their minds a de-
sire to associate with the honest and pure in 
heart, they will cultivate a respect for all that
is good, and above all, great self-respect, and
this will ever prove a safe-guard to keep them
from mingling with those who are low and de-
based.
	Let us ever keep in mind, that deportment,
honesty, caution and a desire to do right,
carried out in practice, are to human character
what truth, reverence and love are to religion.
					AGGIE CAMPBELL.


A PLEASANT TRIP.
				
	The twelfth day of June, calm and lovely,
as only June days can be, found two of the 
little army of missionary women among the
Saints, on the north bound train, enjoying the 
charming scenery of mountain and vale, lake
and river, fields and farms, orchards and thrifty
homes, fragrant rose bloom hedges and meadows
green, and the thousand attractions between
Salt Lake and Brigham City. 
	Amid the glow and glory of a famous Utah
sunset, we were driven up the beautiful, shady 
boulevard leading into the latter place. Even-
ing shades encircled us in the sweet hospitality
of Stake Prest. Minnie J. Snow, to whom our 
hearts instinctively went out with the precious 
sense of congenial friendship. Her home is 
such a haven of peace and rest, that morning 
found us refreshed and with courage somewhat 
renewed, to bear the responsibilities of the 
day, that loomed up like the tallest mountain
peak—as these were not of of our own seeking, 
having been called by the voice of God to His 
labors, we earnestly and humbly sought for 
grace to discharge each duty.  
	At 10 o'clock a.m., June 13th, the Y. L. M. 
I. A. Stake Conference convened in the Taber-
nacle. The stands and organ were most 
charmingly adorned with the queen of flowers
and her sisters of every hue, displaying the 
taste and refinement of the young ladies of the 
Box Elder Stake. A large audience of fresh, 
young, intelligent faces, like a flock of hungry 
lambs seeking the bread of life, was a beauti-
ful sight. The stands were occupied by the 
officers of the various associations, and the 
sweet singers of Zion, whose music was a de-
lightful feature. An excellent programme
throughout, the subjects of the various essays 
well chosen, and treated with such intelligence, 
that it was gratifying to know that they were 
the productions of our mountain girls. It is 
sometimes astonishing, even to those who know
their worth, to see the daughters of the Saints
stand forth, and with true eloquence discourse
upon the science of their religion, and other 
subjects necessary to the development, educa-
tion and culture of women. The duties of 
maiden, wife and mother, the care of home, 
rearing of children, the sciences, arts and pro-
fessions, all received some consideration.  
	At the afternoon session the house was full.  
Prest. Rudger Clawson and other brethren 
showed their appreciation of the sisters labors


by their presence, good counsel and words of
encouragement.  All the speeches were short 
and spirited.  The gift of tongues was exercised
by a young sister;  a sweet influence of peace
prevailed, and all felt a sacred nearness to the
fountain of all our blessings, and I think our
hearts could have found expression in the good
old hymn, "It is good to be a Saint of latter
days." 
	In the evening a hastily improvised "surprise
party," of about thirty-five young ladies
quietly ensconced itself in the parlor of Sister, 
Snow, for the purpose—as a young lady said in
a neat little speech—"To show our apprecia-
tion of the visit of the ladies from the Salt
Lake Stake, and to become better acquainted
socially."
	A sweeter reunion could not well be im-
agined.  The genuine affability, grace, wit and
wisdom indulged in, without effort, was truly
entertaining.  Two hours quickly sped, with
music, songs, recitations and social chat, when
the girls begged for another  meeting. Such
earnest entreaty could not be resisted, nor such
faith denied, and till after midnight we en-
joyed a sacred soul feast, such as only those
can know who are seeking first the kingdom of
God and its righteousness, and have chosen
that "better part" spoken of by our Savior, 
when the spiritual-minded Mary sat at His feet, 
eager for a knowledge of heavenly things.  In
prayer and praise all hearts blended;  the Spirit
of God was poured out mightily, all worldly
cares and pleasures were forgotten.  One sister
sang sweetly a song of Zion, whose power and
influence thrilled the soul with heavenly joy. 
Many were melted to tears, and testified that
they had never experienced such happiness
or before received a testimony of the Gospel. 
For a time we caught a glimpse of the charity
that "thinketh no evil," that pure love of Christ
which hides every defect, and makes one will-
ing to lay down his life for his brother and
sacrifice every earthly comfort to save a soul
from sin and bring him into the light, love and
peace, which only the Gospel can give. 
	Over this memorable midnight hour—the
wedding anniversaries of Prest. M. J. Snow
and one of the visitors—we shook hands
cordially;  congratulations and good wishes
were exchanged, and the Autobiograbhy of 
Apostle Lorenzo Snow, compiled by his 
talented sister, E. R. Snow Smith, was grace-
fully presented as a memento of the happy oc-
casion, while sincere hopes were expressed that
the day would come when the wedding day of
the plural wife could be celebrated with public 
approval and satisfaction to all. 
	Strawberries and cream was next in order—
a women's convention of three—a pleasant
chat over the events of the day, recalling a
ride through the lovely city of foliage and
flowers, with strawberries and cake in the
parlor of Sister Amy Madson, and as the town
clock tolled the "wee sma hours,"  we sank to
rest, trusting the result of our endeavors to 
One who overrules all things for the good of
those who seek and serve Him.
	According to pre-arrangement of the young
ladies of Willard we drove to that picturesque
little town the next day through a charming
stretch of rural scenery, towering above us a
mountain peak covered with eternal snow, cast
its shadow over fragrant clover fields, that al-
most touch the waves of Salt Lake.  One of
the best of dinners and a few sisters awaited 
us at the home of Sister Zundell. 
	A well filled meeting house at 2 p.m.  Among
the audience was a bevy of blooming girls
from Brigham, their appetites for the good
things of the Gospel sharpened by the feast of
the day previous.  Another time of rejoicing,
peace and improvement, when the power of
God was poured out in a refreshing shower;
then a hasty retreat to the capitol to attend an 
officers' meeting at five.
[column 2]
	Homeward bound the following day, carry-
ing with us the sweetest assurances of appre-
ciation ever known, and the knowledge that in
Box Elder Stake were many of the daughters
of Zion, who have indeed become "polished
after the similitude of a palace"—beaming
with beauty, charming, with innocent grace, 
and favored of God for their faith in His Gos-
pel, and their earnest endeavors to mould and
fashion their lives according to its require-
ments.  
	May the seed scattered by the wayside with
trembling hands yield a good harvest in the
rich soil of those innocent, faithful hearts. 
That our visit may be recorded as the starting
point to higher and nobler aspirations and
endeavors, is the wish of the highly favored
visitors. 
						M. AND L. F.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

		HONOLULA, Oahu, July 29, 1888.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A year has elapsed since last we wrote you
concerning our labors in this part of our 
Father's vineyard, but while our pens are
silent, our hands and minds are busily engaged
in striving to benefit those among whom we
labor; and although the result of our labors
may not be as preceptible as we would like, we
feel assured that we will not be condemned for 
idleness. Yet we are not weary in our efforts,
but find pleasure in trying to teach our dusky 
sisters the plan of usefulness and industry.
	Our labors during the last term were that of
teaching the necessity of hand-work and home
industry, and for the establishment of this pur-
pose we held a Fair at Laie, at the time of our 
April Conference, which was well attended.
	This being a ntu hou (new thing), and not 
thoroughly understood by the natives, there was
a greater exhibition of na mea kahiku (ancient
relics) than of hand-work, with the exception
of the work of a class of little girls from the 
Laie day school, whom Sister Beesley had been
teaching to do fancy work.
	But the beautiful quilts made by the sisters
of the different branches of the Society, were
admired by all who saw them, both for neat-
ness in work and novelty in design.  There
was also a nice variety of home-made fans,
straw hats, matting, Hawaiian kapa, or ancient
Hawaiian quilts, small grass houses, represent-
ing the home of the native in the past.  There 
were also a variety of lei's (necklaces), made 
from the pretty coa seeds and kakui nuts.  In
fact the most of their work was that to which
they were well accustomed.  Therefore, our 
labors at present are in teaching them all 
kinds of useful and ornamental hand-work,
that they may be able to beautify their homes
and persons with the work of their own hands;
as the Saints of God have been taught to do.
We find them quite deficient in this respect,
and as our efforts in the last six months were 
considered by our brethren a step in the right 
direction, we have been stimulated to continue,
and hope that our future efforts will tend to 
more directly benefit our native sisters than
they have previously done.
	Could our many readers of the EXPONENT
glance for a moment upon the home of the
native, I think they would agree with us in the 
necessity of instructing them in the many oc-
cupations of the housewife—how, by her good
management and skill, a home, though humble, 
may be made both neat and cleanly. The
house of the native is generally that of an un-
finished frame building; yet we occasionally 
see the ancient grass house occupied.  The in-
side has a home-made mat upon the floor,
made from the lau hala, or leaf of the puhala
tree, this extends half across the room, the
other half having four or five layers of finer

[column 2]
woven mat, which is occupied as a bed for the
family.
	The walls are not often stained wtth white-
wash, but usually have pictures from magazines
pasted firmly upon them, displaying anything 
but taste. The roof is often lined with cob-
webs, etc., the windows are without blinds or
curtains. Occasionally there will be a chair,
though not always, even though they be
supplied with necessary piece of furniture,
the inmates will be found seated upon the
floor, or taking it more easy, stretched out at
full length. Hospitable and kind as this peo-
ple are they are blind to the necessity of be-
ing self-sustaining and independent. What
they copy from the white people are generally 
the frivolous and wordly habits which are
detrimental to them, the essential ones they
look upon as impossible. 
	Hence our readers will see the great work
of usefulness to be done here in order to bene-
fit a fallen race of people and raise them to a 
standard of usefulness and industry. To this 
end we are laboring to honorably fulfil our
mission among the Hawaiian people.
					LIBBIE NOALL.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The officers of the Relief Society and Prim-
ary Association of Millard Stake having re-
cently visited the several branch societies and
associations, desire to express our satisfaction
with the good results and earnest labors of our
sisters, and we are pleased to note the vast im-
provement of each association under the able
management of these respective officers.
	We met with a cordial welcome, and our
meetings were well attended, and though feeble
our efforts, God's Spirit was with us, and we
rejoiced to unite with so many of the pure in
heart, for many such do we find, who, through
sacrifice and humility, are learning the truth
and wisdom of God's ways, which none can
know except by His Spirit.
	The Primary Association at Oak Creek was 
organized, with Annie N. Anderson, President, 
and Caroline Duston and Libbie Finelson,
Counselors, there having been no permanent
organization since the death of our late Presi-
dent, Eliza Lyman.
	The anxious endeavors of our Primary
children elicit great praise, and truly exhibit
characteristics of the noble spirits of this dis-
pensation, and through their early obedience to
the Gospel, are manifesting a true and solid
foundation.
	The officers of the Stake are zealous in their
labors and desire to act well their part as co-
laborers in the great mission of the Latter-day
Saints.
							D. K. O.


THE FACTS IN WASHINGTON
			TERRITORY.

	The Daily Union of Walla Walla, Washing-
ton Territory, published an article by Rev. Mr.
McLean, of that city, in which he says:
	Most respectable women are opposed to
woman suffrage, and those who avail them-
selves of the franchise are not regarded as rep-
resentatives of the better class of women.
Naturally woman suffrage affords opportunities 
for sharp work on the part of the candidates.
	To the above imputation a direct insult to
the women of Walla Walla who voted at the 
last city or any other election, and a slur (to
say the least of it) on their intelligence, charac-
ters and judgment, which facts and demonstra-
tions do not substantiate.  The truth is, most 
of the respectable women of our city did avail
themselves of the franchise, and cast their


ballot for their choice of candidates at our last
city election, as shown by the poll books. And
a portion of those who had neglected to
register, were heard to say they regretted it
very much, and would have gladly exercised
the highest prerogative of the American citizen
upon that occasion.  A stranger would infer
from the reverend gentleman's remarks that
the majority of the female voters of this
city are disreputable women, when the very
reverse is true, and he knows it, if he is at all
posted.  As to respectability, I challange the 
reverend gentleman to a comparison of an
equal number of men who voted at the last
city election (ministers included) with the
same number of women, and see if the women
voters, on the whole, are not the more respect-
able and intelligent of the two classes, and 
representatives of our best citizens, both 
morally and intellectually.
	The appeal of Mr. Davis to the poll-books
will easily show whose statement is correct.
But outside of this the testimony is abundant
that more than nine-tenths of the women voted.
It can hardly be supposed that so large a frac-
tion of women were not respectable.—Ex.
							    L. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHILDREN’S FAIR

	It is decided that a Fair will be held in this
city about the middle of September by the
Primary Associations of this Stake. The
officers of these Associations have talked this
matter over in their meetings, and it is sup-
posed that most, if not all of the articles pre-
pared, are ready to be forwarded for the exhibit.
Presidents of Primaries have been duly notified,
and we ardently hope that there will be a good
showing of the little people’s work, both boys
and girls. Needle work, such as plain sewing,
darning and mending, we have specially men-
tioned. We are anxious that the children
should have an opportunity for the proper dis-
play of their handiwork, and that every en-
couragement possible should be given to in-
duce them to excel in any branch or kind of
work they may undertake to do, whether sim-
ple or complicated. The same attention and
care will be given to the boys' as to the girls'.
The place for holding the fair has been decided
upon, and due notice given through the papers.
			ELLEN C. CLAWSON, Prest.
			CAMILLA C. COBB,
			LYDIA ANN WELLS,
						    Counselors.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.	

To the Stake Presidents of the Relief Society:

	In order that there may be a full and com-
plete report, statistical and financial, of the
Relief Society, including all the several Stakes,
for the Semi annual Conference of the Church,
which will be held in October, the several
Stake Presidents of the Relief Society are
hereby notified to see that the Secretaries pre-
pare and forward a correct Stake report, and
direct to Dr. Romania B. Pratt, 206 n, Second 
West Street, Salt Lake City, not later than
the 15th of September.  
				E. B. WELLS, 
	Cor. Sec. Central Board of the Relief So-
ciety. 

			Y. L. M. I. A.
To the Stake Presidents of the Y. L. M. I. Asso-
	ciations.  

	As it is very desirable that a full report of
all the Societies be had for the General Confer-
ence of the Church, which convenes October
6th, will the presidents please see that the
Stake Secretaries forward their reports so that







  
	</e&t>


they may be received here not later than the
15th of September. Direct to Miss Mary E.
Cook, 323 East, Third South Street, SaIt Lake
City, Utah.
		ELMINA S. TAYLOR, President.

		PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

To the Stake Presidents of the Primary Asso-
	ciations:

	It is very desirable that a full report of all
the Societies be had for the General Conference
of the Church, which convenes October 6th.
Will the presidents please see that the Stake
Secretaries forward their reports so they will be
received not later than the l5th of September?
Direct to Mrs. C. H. Clayton, P, O. Box 306,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
			LOUIE B. FELT, President.


TO THE PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

	The Primary Fair will open about the 12th
inst., in the building adjoining Elias Morris’
place on South Temple Street.  All who have
articles for exhibition will please deliver them
not later than Monday, Sept. 10th, at the
building where the fair will be held.
	On Friday, Sept. 7, the officers of the Prim-
ary Associations in the Salt Lake Stake will
meet at Mrs. E. C. Clawson’s residence, No. 22
First East Street, at 2 p.m.  A full attendance
is requested.
	On Saturday, Sept. 15, the conference of the
Primary Associations will convene in the As-
sembly Hall. Meeting will be held at 10 a.m.
and 2 p.m.
	Please note the dates—Officers' meeting,
Friday, Sept. 7; delivery of articles for the
fair, Monday, Sept. 10; conference, Saturday,
Sept. 15.
		ELLEN C. CLAWSON, President.


As we want more goodness and less devilish-
ness put into the ballot-boxes on election days.
I do not know a better plan to gain that end
than that of letting the better half of humanity
have an opportunity to vote.—Geo. R. Scott.
	Mille. Matilda de Noureigas, daugher of the
late minister from Portugal, who has been for
three years a pupil of Mme. Viardot-Garcia,
in Paris, will give a concert in New York this
month.  She has a beautiful voice, and will
sail in a few weeks to meet engagements in
Europe.
	No reason can be shown why a woman's 
vote in the State should not be received with
as much respect as in the family.  A State is
but an association of families, and laws relate
to the rights and immunities which touch 
woman's most private and immediate wants
and dearest hopes.—Harriet Beecher Stowe.
	"Carmen Sylva," the queen of Roumania,
is having a "poet's chamber" built, wherein to
write her poems.  It is constructed of reeds,
surrounded by a high hedge of roses.  In the
niche of the hedge cages of singing birds are
hidden, and in one corner there is a fountain
of perfumed water.  In the middle of the
room are a mossy bank and a great block of
rock covered with moss and hewn in the form
of a writing-desk. Upon this moss-grown
stone the queen poetess will indite her verses.
The ground is covered with a thick, soft car-
pet of green turf, and a hammock is slung on
one side with golden cords.—Ex.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Kanab, on the 31st of May, 1888, Sister Sarah
Harmon Crosby.  Sister Crosby, or Aunt Sally, as she was
familiarly called, both by old and young, was born March


4th, 1808, in Garret County, Kentucky. She was married,
to her husband, William Crosby, in March, 1832, and was
baptized by Peter Haw in 1843. She went with her hus-
band to Nauvoo, where they both worked in the Temple;
they also contributed considerable of their means to the
Church at this time. She came to the valley in the second
company of pioneers. Went with her husband on a mis-
sion to California in the spring of 1851. Returned to Utah
in 1858, and from that time until her death, she has lived
on the frontiers of southern Utah. When the Relief So-
ciety was organized in Kanab, she was chosen President,
and continued in that position until old age prevented her
from performing its duties. She was the mother of two
sons, nine grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. She
was a woman of most amiable disposition and benevolent
qualities of heart, and, having been blessed with an
abundance of this world's goods in times past, she dis-
pensed of her bounties to the poor liberally and unostenta-
tiously.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, it has pleased the great Creator to take unto
Himself, after a long and useful life, our much loved sister,
Sarah H. Crosby, and,
	Whereas, it is fitting that she be held in honorable re-
membrance, therefore, be it
	Resolved, by the ladies' Relief Society of Kanab, That
while we mourn, not as those who have no hope, yet we
realize that in the death of Sister Crosby we have lost a 
dear friend, and her family a wise and loving counselor,
in fact we will all miss her loving counsels, her happy face
and cheery voice. God bless her for evermore! she has
gone to receive a crown she has so faithfully waited for.
	Resolved, That we extend our deepest sympathy to all
the members of her family.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be put upon the records
of the Relief Society, and a copy thereof be sent to the
family of our sister, and to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
								M. C LITTLE,
			    In behalf of the Relief Society of Kanab.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY 
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.	 
VOL 17. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1888. 		No. 8.


TO LOUISE 
		    BY MAY SPENCER.
When thine eyes closed upon this world of care,
Closed to reopen on a scene more fair,
Sad hearts and breaking met and sorrowed there,
		Around thy bed, sweetheart. 
Still as an image graven out of stone,
White as a form of marble was thine own;
Sad voices whispered in a broken tone
		That thou wert dead, sweetheart.

Flowers are strewn upon thy lowly mound,
Tears are the dew that water all the ground,
Where thou art lying, far from sight and sound,
		In thy low bed, sweetheart.
But angel tones have whispered unto me,
Tho' thou hast vanished, where I cannot see,
Sad for our sadness, glad yet to be free,
		Thou art not dead, sweetheart.

And in the twilight I can dream I hear
Thy tender accents falling on my ear,
"Only my weary form is lying here,
		Here where you tread, sweetheart.
Turn from the mound where peacfully it lies,
I linger near and watch with loving eyes,
Tho' free from earth's worn garments and disguise, 
		I am not dead, sweetheart."
—Chicago Inter Ocean.


[For the Exponent.]
			SUNDERED.
	"What God has joined together, let no man put assun-
der."—Christian Marriage Service.

	No more, no more those welcome feet
	The pathway to my threshold beat;
	The joy his coming brought is o'er; 
	Those dear eyes light my home no more.

	He may not come; our cruel fate 	
	Pours out the bitter lees of hate;
	I'd fly to him with joy, but oh,
	For reason stern, I may not go!

	My willing feet, that fain would speed
	The way my yearning wishes lead,
	Are now compelled to tread the dust
	Not where they would but where they must.

	My eager hands, that fain would clasp
	His own in fond and fervent grasp,
	With patient labor strive to still 
	The trembling pains that through them thrill.

	My paling lips that fain would press
	Upon his brow a pure caress,
	May only breathe his name so low
	That none but God can hear or know.

	My eyes, that fain would scan his face,
	Delighting in each saintly grace,	
	Are now forbidden to behold,
	Save with a glance estranged and cold.

	Alas, that bonds of forged steel,
	Whose cold and heavy links I feel
	Enchaining me to duty grim,	
	Should also load and fetter him!

	Ah, well, my dear one, love is free,
	And from my true heart greeteth thee;
	And trust in God is still our own—
	We'll meet in prayer before His throne.
					LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
		INCIDENTS OF TRAVEL.

	In conversation with Prest. M. Isabella
Horne, of the Relief Society of this Stake,
since her return from abroad, we decided to 
make a few notes, that we thought would be of

[Column 2]
interest to our readers. In Mrs. Horne's rail-
way journey from Salt Lake City to New York
she met with quite a number of people who
were interested in Utah matters, the people,
the institutions, etc. Elder R. S. Horne, her
son, who accompanied her, also conversed with
several learned gentleman who desired infor-
mation upon the subject of Mormonism, and
who seemed pleased with whatever items were
imparted to them. The party, consisting of
several of the brethren and sisters, all had op-
portunities for conversation with strangers as
soon as it was known they were from Utah;
the time passed pleasantly, and, it is hoped, 
profitably, and that some good seed has been 
sown, at least in removing prejudice against 
the Latter-day Saints. In New York City
Mrs. Horne greatly enjoyed "seeing the sights,"
and visiting places of interest; she expresses
herself as particularly attracted by the Green-
wood Cemetery. 
	The party embarked on board the Circassia
of the Anchor line, bound for Glasglow, on the
19th of May. They had an excellent Captain,
by the name of Campbell, and in fact the same
might be said of all the officers on board the
steamer. The company also was very pleasant, 
and the people affable. There was but one
person who seemed to have any prejudice, and
he became quite friendly before the voyage 
was over. 
	A Methodist gentleman from South Carolina
requested the privilege of having a conversa-
tion with Mrs. Horne; he was an editor, and, 
no doubt, wanted a subject for editorial matter
or sketch of our people. He stated that he
had long desired to have an opportunity of
talking with some intelligent person, concern-
ing our people and principles. She explained
to him about the first principles of the Gospel
—faith, repentance, and baptism by immersion;
he thought immersion non-essential; the lady
quoted Scripture to prove her arguments, and
gave him a dissertation of the doctrines and
principles of the Latter-day Saints, none of
which he seemed able to refute successfully
from Biblical authority. The interview lasted
about an hour and a half, during which time 
Mrs. H. laid before the editor many important 
truths.
	The Rev. Alfred Anthony was the minister
of the steamer: he was on his way to Europe,
extending to study two years in Berlin. Mrs.
Horne says the Reverend gentleman was a very
able speaker and made excellent prayers. Upon
learning that Mrs. Horne was one of the 
pioneers of Utah, he came one day and seated
himself by her, and commenced a conversation;
first about settling the country; he had paid a
visit to Utah about six years ago, and said he
would like to come again and bring his wife
with him, upon which a gentleman jokingly
remarked, "Yes, be sure and take your wife."
The conversation naturally drifted into religious
channels, and the minister inquired were we
anything like the Roman Catholics, that we
had to have a Mediator, or could we approach
our Father in Heaven for ourselves. Mrs.
Horne of course answered, "Every one is at
liberty to seek our Father for himself or her-
self, through Jesus who shed His blood for us."
He then said, "Would any person joining your
Church have to be rebaptized, if the person
had been a member of some other church?"
Whereupon Mrs. Horne explained that every
one must be, as it was necessary that the cere-
mony of baptism be performed by one having 

[Column 3] 
authority, and come in through the door, in
accordance with the Scipture, "He that climb-
eth up any other way," etc. Mr. Anthony
then went on to say, "Supposing a man were
cast away upon an island, where there would
be no opportunity for baptism, how would it
be with him." The reply was given, "The
Lord would know the circumstances, and there
would be provision made," and so on. Mrs. 
H. referred him to the Savior's preaching to
the spirits in prison, and told him of the doc-
trine of the baptism for the dead, and said her
mission then was to gather up the genealogy
of her dead. Mr. A. then asked what she
thought of those of other churches who had
lived righteous lives, according to their under-
standing? Mrs. H. explained to him the
different degrees of glory, and that such people
would have more even than they anticipated, 
but it would be in accordance with their good
works and the purity of their motives. The
conversation continued for a long time, during
which Mrs. H. gave him the Articles of Faith,
and he said there was nothing there he could
not endorse. He spoke of the Book of Mor-
mon, its authenticity, etc. Mrs. H. cited him
to the account of the Tower of Babel, and the
confounding of languages and scattering of the
people, also the destruction of Jerusalem, and
that it was through this means that a remnant
came to this land, and the Book of Mormon is
their record hid away, to come forth in the
given time of the Lord. This distinguished
gentleman, with all his learning, knew nothing
of the way in which we understand the Scrip-
tures. 
	On the Sunday following this conversation, 
Mr. A. preached to the people, and in the
course of his sermon he made an illustration
like this: "Here we have the good ship Circas-
sia with a Captain and crew well manned, can-
not we trust ourselves in his hands, believing
he can guide the ship into port, and not dive
into the depths of the ocean after the mys-
teries?" Mrs. Horne says she felt that this
allusion was a thrust at her, but, she adds,  "He
forgot that we are told by our Savior to work
out our own salvation, and also, that it is given
to the Saints to know the mysteries of the
kingdom." 
	Hereafter we shall give other items of Mrs.
Horne's travels.


REFLECTIONS.

	This is Pioneer day, July 24, 1888.  Forty-
one years ago to-day, the pioneers entered
these valleys of the Great Salt Lake. This
was then a barren region.  They were religi-
ous pilgrims driven out from civilized society
because of their religious belief.  They were
weary wanderers, who through great faith in
God believing that they were doing His holy
will were enabled to bear all that they had to
pass through and felt that this was their place
to rest, and make homes and to worship God
according to the dictates of their consciences.
Having pure, undefiled faith that they were
doing that which God desired them to do; with
this faith they have accomplished a mighty
work and wonder through united efforts and
industry and the blessings of God, and have
made of this barren waste beautified cities and
towns.  They have taught their children the 
principles of their religion, which are faith in 
God and his Son Jesus Christ, and have told


them if they repent of their sins and are bap-
tized by immersion that God will forgive them
and that His Holy Spirit will lead them into
the ways of truth and righteousness. Also that
God had called Joseph Smith a prophet to es-
tablish his church upon the earth for the
last time, and that He had revealed His holy
will to this choice prophet of the latter days,
and together with the many plans and princi-
ples of salvation He had revealed the princi-
ples of celestial and plural marriage for some
wise purpose of his own, and that we lived in
one of the grandest nations in the world, where
God had inspired mighty men to establish
build and buy with precious blood the choicest
land on earth, a refuge for the oppressed, a
land of liberty, where people from every na-
tion would receive their rights; with this kind
of teaching and publicly preaching to the
world, thousands of beautiful and intelligent
children were born to the Latter-day Saints;
their fathers and mothers toiled early and late
that they might support their families. Noth-
ing, but faith in God has ever supported these
mothers and children through the trials that
these circumstances surrounding them called
them to pass through. They were human be-
ings, subject to the weaknesses of the human
race having their natural jealousies and selfish-
ness and various dispositions to control,in order
that that they might set good examples. Who
cannot at a glance comprehend that there
must have been strong motive power that in-
duced young women,pure minded,and virtuous,
to share their all with each other, to wait on
each other in sickness, to nurse each other’s
children and teach them to give the mothers
the honorable title of “Aunt,” and in some
cases to name their children for each other, to
teach these brothers and sisters that they
should love each other as one family. These
things look something like a sacrifice of hu-
man nature to acomplish.
	Yet such was the situation for many years
and this government stood by and looked on
and took no step to check it, until 1862. Then
this protective government passed a law
against polygamy, and prior to that had ap-
pointed Brigham Young governor of Utah
knowing him to be a practical polygamist. They
never even tried a single case for years to know
whether the law of 62 was valid or not. The
government, however, woke up to look at
slavery and concluded it was not right, that
it must be abolished, this brought on a mighty
war and many precious lives were sacrificed
many homes made desolate, many hearts made
sad, but the black man, woman and their chil-
dren were made glad. They were set free
with the law to protect each and every one.
They are called the “nations ward.” When
this war was settled they, these honorable men
in the Congress of the United States, turn
around and call polygamy the twin to slavery.
They begin to think that something must be
done to put this down. “It is not right; it is a
stain  on society; it is a loathsome ulcer; it
must be wiped out.
	Hon. George Q. Cannon was selected
and sent and sustained by Congress and was
known to be a practical polygamist, and
served there for several years as a respectable
and exemplary man, honorable in every action,
as every man in congress that formed his ac-
quaintance knows to be the truth. He had his
peculiar religious belief; society talked loudly
about this without knowing what they were
talking about. Meanwhile men and journal-
ists that were hungry for office, that were seek-
ing notoriety, that would rob their fellow men
for their ovn selfish gain, that saw that these
industrious people were becoming more wealthy
and thought if they could succeed in blacken-
ing their names in slandering their characters,
they might safely take away their inheritance
and possessions.  With this class of men and
[column 2]
women the people were deceived. Members of
Congress introduced plans and laws of differ-
ent kinds to conquer this white twin,and to cut
the loathsome ulcer from the body politic.
	As late as 1883, Senator Edmunds and his
co-workers sharpened their knives as the phy-
sicians to cut this ulcer that had been growing
for forty years and Congress had  stood by
and looked on and talked about it. Many
years ago it was only on the surface then if
they had the power to remove it, it could
have been removed with little danger; but no;
these protectors let it grow until it has taken a
deep hold to take it out, they will have to cut
the main arteries; they will have to sever the
cords of love stronger than death; they will
have to cut away the very fibers of the heart;
break up the homes of many families; rob
thousands of innocent children of their fathers,
one of their natural protectors; leave the home
that both father and mother have made, for if
the father stays there the mother must
leave; she that has toiled early and late to
keep things in order; she that has taken care in
health and in sickness; the mother that has
been ever true, ever diligent, ever careful that
the children might appear respectable and tidy;
that has practised economy in every way that
all might live; that has deprived herself of
many of the pleasures of life, thinking and
faithfully believing that she was doing the will
of her Father in heaven, acting upon religious
principles and with no desire to injure any per-
son; this mother discarded, yes, without a man-
tle of protection. Senator Edmunds is the
man that is willing to let his name go down to
posterity as the originator of this unjust law, 
that undertook to cut out the ulcer without any
healing ointment to take care of the wound
without any cords to tie the arteries or veins.
	But have you made any provision for wives
where they can still be permitted to take
care of their children and claim a lawful sup-
port? No, we fail to see any, if this is the white
twin that you have robbed and turned out with-
out a mantle to cover herself with; this is bad
in a free republic, but hardly enough. Sena-
tor Tucker combines to do a little more; he
proposes if these mothers of legitimate families,
that they have robbed of the title of wife should
ever become mothers again through the same
channel shall be confined in the prison for six
months, and her child be only illegitimate hav-
ing no claim or portion with the others, and
publish her as a fornicator. If this is what
society calls justice, if Senator Edmunds and
Tucker, and the signers of this unjust bill have
considered this all around and understand
what they have done for hundreds of virtuous
women and innocent children, if they have
carefully considered the responsibilties, then
woe be to them;the God that is their Father is our
Father, and is no respector of persons; we have
no fear that He will forsake us in the future,
for He has helped us in the past. If these pro-
tectors of human rights do not repent, these
will be the ones that will call for the rocks to
hide them from the presence of their Maker,
for the multitude of their sin is great if these
men have no religion expect to meet nothing but
the grave, should they be put there in a casket
of gold with all the honors that society can
heap upon them, they are but mortal men that
oppressed women and robbed children of their
birthright. We are thankful to say there are
men that have been stamped with bad names,
that are too honorable to take advantage of
that law; that have preferred the prison to for-
saking their families; that have chosen exile
and seclusion rather than to submit to injustice;
that prefer the underground train drawn by
oxen in the hope to meet justice hereafter, than
to mount the train that is run by injustice with
no mercy for its cargo.
						E. W. BROWN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REORGANIZATION.

DEAR EDITOR:
	With great pleasure I communicate to your
very interesting paper the following items from
Herriman:
	On the 12th of December, 1887, we were
visited by several of the brethren from differ-
ent wards.  In company with Apostle Heber
J. Grant, Prest. A. M. Cannon, Elder Taylor
and E. Morris, they held meeting that day.
During the time, they recommended the Relief
Society to be reorganized.
	We held another meeting on the 15th of
January, 1888, and elected the following offi-
eers:  Emma Jane Bodell; President; Sarah
Jane Butterfield and Emeline Butterfield,
Counselors; Nancy Jane Freeman, Secretary;
Hannah Stocking, Treasurer.  They were
blessed and set apart under the hands of Bishop
R. Dansie and Wm. C. Camp, who also made
some excellent remarks, and encouraged the
Sisters to be active in the duties devolving up-
on them in their high and holy calling. We
held our first meeting on the 2nd of February,
1888.
	Praying God to bless you in your labor of
love, I remain, with kindest regards,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			NANCY JANE FREEMAN, Sec.


EXTRACT FROM AN ELDER'S JOUR-
			NAL.

Dramatic factors in the worship of the "beast."
	A. Imposing architectural structures and
appurtenances. Arts and sciences, mainly, pic-
tures, statuary and music. Brilliancy, shining
ornamentations, chandeliers and wax lights.
Dressing gorgeous colors and fantastic shapes.
Pagan pompous ceremonies, rites and formulas
of liturgy. All calculated for charming ef-
fects.
	B. Expressions of extreme veneration for
something unexplained. Sudden changes, and
surprising shiftings. Activity, keeping the
attention extremely expectant. Mystic masses, 
novel sounds, tinkling of bells and burning of
incenses. Acute expressions of agony, joy,
sorrow, vehemence, etc. All unexplained in
purpose, and mystifying in effect.
	C. Ambiguous worship, and enigmatical
devotion. Predominant effect, sensational
emotion. Soul cravings starved on mys-
ticisms. Intoto: a strong hold of delusion.
And all together, "Mystery Babylon."


The Scandinavian Woman’s Congress was
held in Copenhagen, Denmark, in July last—
the first fruits in Europe of the movement to
organize a Woman’s Congress in every large
city. The delegates assembled from Sweden,
Norway, Denmark, Finland, and Iceland, and
the attendance was about five hundred. The
meeting lasted three days, and the questions
discussed were, Woman Suffrage, Peace, Tem-
perance and Co-education. The status of
suffrage in the different countries was shown to
be as follows: In Denmark, municipal suffrage
was proposed to the Diet, but refused, and a
petition by Danish women will be sent in at
the next meeting; in Norway, the subject has
been laid before the Storthing, but not yet
carried, although there “exists an appreciation
of the question’s weight and importance; and
things are so luckily placed that with munici-
pal suffrage will follow political;" in Sweden
the women have municipal suffrage; in Finland,
they have municipal suffrage, and also the
right to sit on school boards and act as poor-
law guardians; and in Iceland, they have both
municipal and political suffrage, but are not
eligible to public office, while the taxes, which
are the condition of suffrage, are so heavy that
few women can take part.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE STARLESS CROWN.

	"They that turn many to righteousness shall shine as the
stars forever and ever." —Daniel XII. 3.

Wearied and worn with earthly cares, I yielded to repose,
And soon, before my raptured sight, a glorious vision
	rose;
I thought whilst slumbering on my couch in midnight's 
	solemn gloom,
I heard an angel's silvery voice, and radiance fill'd my 
	room.
A gentle touch awakened me,—a gentle whisper said,
"Arise, O sleeper, follow me;" and through the air we
	fled.
We left the earth so far away that like a speck it seemed,
And heavenly glory, calm and pure, across our pathway
	stream'd.
Still on we went,—my soul was wrapt in silent ecstacy;
I wondered what the end would be, what next should meet
	mine eye.
I knew not how we journey'd hro' the pathless fields of
	light,
When suddenly a change was wrought and I was clothed 
	in white.
We stood before a city's wall most glorious to behold;
We passed thro' gates of glistening pearl, o'er streets of
	purest gold;

It needed not the sun by day, the silver moon by night,
The glory of the Lord was there, the Lamb himself its
	light;
Bright angels paced the shining streets, sweet music filled
	the air,
And white-robed saints with glittering crowns, from every
	land were there,
And some that I had loved on earth stood with them
	round the throne,
"All worthy is the Lamb," they sang,  "the glory His
	alone.
But fairer far than all beside, I saw my Savior's face;
And as I gazed He smiled on me with wondrous love and
	grace.
Lowly I bowed before His throne, o'er-joyed that I at
	last
Had gained the object of my hopes, that earth at length
	was past.
And then in solemn tones He said, "Where is the diadem
That ought to sparkle on thy brow—adorned with many a
	gem?
I know thou hast believed on Me, and life through Me
	is thine,
But where are all those radiant stars that in thy crown
	should shine?
Yonder, thou seest a glorious throng, and stars on every
	brow!
For every soul they led to me they wear a jewel now!

And such thy bright reward had been if such had been 
	thy deed,
If thou hadst sought some wand'ring feet in paths of peace
	to lead;
I did not mean that thou shouldst tread the way of life
	alone,
But that the clear and shining light which round thy foot-
	steps shone,
Should guide some other weary feet to my bright home of
	rest.
And thus in blessings those around, thou hadst thyself
	been blest.

The vision faded from my sight, the voice no longer spake,
A spell seemed brooding o'er my soul which long I feared
	to break,
And when at last I gazed around in memory's glimmering
	light,
My spirit fell o'erwhelmed beneath that vision's awful
	might.
I rose and wept with chastened joy that yet I dwelt below,
That yet another hour was mine my faith by works to
	show,
And yet some sinner I might tell of Jesus' dying love,
And help to lead some weary soul to seek a home above.
And now, while on the earth I stay, my motto this shall
	be, 
"To live no longer to myself but Him who died for me!"
And graven on my inmost soul this word of truth divine,
They that turn many to the Lord bright as the stars shall
	shine!
								SELECTED


PLURAL MARRIAGE.
     Not long since a friend of mine wished me
to give my views upon plural marriage. To 
illustrate this subject to your understanding I 
must say my experience has taught me there
is a great difference between the spirit of the 
world and that of the Gospel of our Savior.
With the spirit of the world, it is the most 
self-sacrificing principle that could be thought
of. But with the Gospel you can enter into 
the feelings of your friends, and do for them
as you would wish them to do by you, under
like circumstances; and take pleasure in show-
ing your love for them, having perfect con-
fidence that their feelings are the same for you.
But by the spirit of the world you could not
comprehend or believe such feelings were genu-
ine. The Savior taught that those who receive 
and obey the Gospel and take his yoke upon 
them, they would find the yoke easy, and the
burden light. 
	The law of Moses is the best lesson, or at 
least, best understood by the world. Pay
every one off in their own coin, and they will
readily see if it is acceptable when they meet it
themselves.
	The Gospel, St. Paul says, is a school master
to bring us to Christ. The primary lessons.
Christ’s law is of a higher grade, and requires 
more nobility of character, a greater love, with
light and intelligence, to make allowance for
small minds, who are only learning their pri-
mary lessons.
	In my youth I was taught to read the Bible,
and especially the New Testament. When the
message of the Gospel came to me in New
York I was a little past twenty years of age.
For a time I could not be persuaded to listen
to this new doctrine, but when I did, it 
looked so consistent that to be prepared for the
second coming of Christ there must be a peo-
ple who would apply their minds strictly to
His teachings I could believe nothing else, nor
have I since that time. I find that to believe
Christ's teachings practically you must be 
brought into circumstances to prove your in-
tegrity. 
	Plural marriage will do it in the full sense of 
the word. In it you will learn how much no-
bility of character you are capable of exercis-
ing and cherishing, and whether you have charity
in the true meaning of the word. You will find
how St. Paul defines the word in 1st Cor. 13th
chap.
	He says, Though I give all my goods to feed 
the poor and my body to be burned and have
not charity it profiteth me nothing.  He then
tells what charity is.  Allow me to say I have
been acquainted with the world for twenty
years outside of plural marriage and do know
of a certainty that there is as much unhappi-
ness outside; yes, much more than 1 have
known in it, when people of pure minds and
sincere and devoted hearts to Christ's teach-
ing have accopted it.  Such persons have a 
peace of mind the world can not give or take
away from them. Plural marriage will test
you to the center, even though your compan-
ion is a pure-minded and generous man.  If on
the contrary, you will live for a glory he fails
to attain to there need be no fear, for each will
have what we merit when we come into the 
presence of our Heavenly Father.  We learn
this from holy writ and believe it too. We 
also learn that woman although frail as she is
naturally, can be quite a help and a stay to a 
man who is measuring himself by the pattern
and living by the same rule called the golden
rule of Jesus the Saviour. 
	We also learn there is to be a class of peo-
ple who will be heirs and joint-heirs with
Jesus Christ. Romans, 8th chap., 17th verse.
	They must necessarily have the same oppo-
sition to meet that Jesus did, the same temp-
tations and also the same power to resist and

[Column 2]
overcome, or they could not merit the same
glory.  I remember at one time I heard Prest.
Young say:  "Never try to escape the affliction
you are called necessarily to pass through only
try and prepare yourself to meet it properly."
I notice it takes some people a long time to be
prepared to meet trouble with composure of 
mind.  Our Savior once said, if it is possible
let this cup pass by.  But not my will but 
Thine be done.
	St Paul says, "Be subject to the powers that
be, for all powers are ordained of God." St. 
Peter also 2nd chap. 13th verse, says: "Sub-
mit yourselves to every ordinance of man for 
the Lord's sake, whether it be to the king as
supreme or the governors," etc.  Our Savior
also by precept and example did the same.
This is our rule of action all who have the
strength of mind and are sufficiently ac-
quainted with true principles will measure
themselves by this pattern feeling the assurance
that it must needs be that offences come:  But
woe to them by whom they come.
	There was a revelation given to the Pro-
phet Joseph, Jan: 19th, 1841, saying: "Verily,
verily I say unto you, That when I give a com-
mandment to any of the sons of men, to do a
work unto my name, and those sons of men, go 
with all their might, and with all they have to 
perform that work, and cease not their dili-
gence and their enemies come upon them and
hinder them from performing that work; be-
hold it behooveth me to require that work no
more at the hands of those sons of men, but to
accept their offering," But also says He will
hold those accountable, who hinder the work.
Is not it as much their duty to receive the
message to be ready for our Savior's second
coming to earth, as it was ours?  Are not we
all the children of God? How many give heed
to his commands:  For instance  the com-
mand given in the garden of Eden.  It is lost 
sight of entirely by many, and if kept at all it 
is by accident,  not from pure motives.  The
Lord judges by the motives and intents of the
heart. Is there anything impure in keeping
the commands of God, and especially when
done with pure minds and with real intent to
keep those commands. A blessing may be
turned into a curse when a wicked spirit leads 
the mind.  Our daily food is designed to 
strengthen and bless the person; yet it can be
used in such a manner as to cause sickness.
Consequently we need wisdom from the foun-
tain of light and intelligence daily; and in giv-
ing strict attention to the laws of God we will 
have this wisdom, whether in married life or
unmarried. Life is short at best; let us be
wise and seek wisdom from the fountain of
light and intelligence even of God our Father, 
who delights to bless all who trust in Him.
                                        M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 10, 1888.


Mme. E Gerard, a clever writer and the
author of several entertaining novels, must be
rather cosmopolitan in her tastes. She is a
Scotch woman born of French parents, and is
married to an Austrian officer.
	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe reached home
on the evening of September 10th.  The trip
across the Sound on the steamer was very quiet
and restful.  For the first time in several days
she was able to sleep peacefully, which she did
during nearly the entire trip.  She was accom-
panied by her son, the Rev. Charles E. Stowe,
and her daughters.  On reaching Hartford she
was able to ride in a hack to her home, suffer-
ing no detriment.  She was soon sleeping
quietly, and her condition is evidently much
improved.  Her son says she has had severe
attacks of nervous restlessness, or insomnia
bordering on acute mania, and at times there
have been symptoms of congestion of the brain.
Her condition is still critical, but not hopeless.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	SEPTEMBER 15, 1888


GENERAL SEMI-ANNUAL CONFER-
				ENCE.

	The Fifty-ninth Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will
commence at 10 o'clock Friday morning, October
5th, 1888, in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City.
	The officers and members of the Church are re-
spectfully invited to attend.
	A meeting of the Deseret Sunday School
Union will be held at the Tabernacle on Friday
evening, October 5th, one of the Priesthood on
Saturday evening, October 6th, and of the Young
Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Associations on Sunday evening, October 7th.
				WILFORD WOODRUFF,
In behalf of the Council of the Twelve Apostles.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	MRS. ELIZABETH LISLE SAXON AND MRS.
CLARA B. COLBY, two distinguished ladies of the
National Woman Suffrage Association, are ex-
pected in Salt Lake City on the 23rd inst., and
will give one or two lectures in the Salt Lake
Theatre.  Mrs. Saxon is a poet and a newspaper
correspondent, as well as a lecturer.  She speaks
upon Womnn Suffrage, Temperance and Social
Purity, and made "a decided hit" at the Interna-
tion Council at Washington, last April, when she
spoke upon the last named subject.  Mrs. Saxon
visited this city in the fall of 1882, and remained
here some little time.  Mrs. Colby is not only a
lecturer, but is also the Editor of the Woman's
Tribune, the official organ of the N. W. S. A.,
which is a weekly paper, published regularly in
Beatrice, Neb., but during the International Coun-
cil it was published daily in Washington, D. C.,
giving all the items of the Council and Conven-
tion, and the speeches and addresses in full. Both
these ladies have a national reputation, and both
were speakers at the International Council. The
ladies of this city, will, doubtless, give them a
cordial welcome.  They come here from the
Northwest, Oregon—and Washington Territory,
where they have been traveling and giving lectures
on the subjects named.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY FAIR.
	The Children's Fair was open for four days,
commencing on Wednesday, the 12th inst., and
continuing until the end of the week. There was
quite a creditable representation made of the little
people's work. As it is utterly impossible "to tell
it all" we shall not make the attempt, but only
particularize some of the very best articles on ex-
hibition.
	Of the country wards we noticed Big Cotton-
wood, Mill Creek, Draper and North Jordan had

[Column 2]
a variety of useful and ornamental articles, nicely
arranged on the tables. From Big Cottonwood
there was a hammer and chisel in iron work.
made by little boys, and so well done, that no one
could help admiring the workmanship; also
bread and pies by little boys and very
fine potatoes and other vegetables, raised
by them. A map of the United States, drawn and
colored by a little girl, showed very good
ability; there was also, from quite small boys of 
that ward, a ladder and rake, and from a girl old-
fashioned heavy woolen gloves, hooked, patchwork
quilts, plain sewing, ornamental needlework, and
many pretty things beside.
	Draper Ward, there was a very well made and
perfect shoe made by a boy; also vegetables
raised by boys, and cooking done by them; from
one of the girls a piece of home-made carpet, well
woven; the same little girl can put a piece into the
loom herself.
	North Jordan Ward had wax flowers, some
other handsome work, but the most unique article
was a bridle made of cord and horsehair, by a
little fellow who had also made the machine in
which it was manufactured; the bridle is very
strong and quite a curiosity.
	Mill Creek Ward, velvet pincushion worked in
the finest silk, very elaborately, and several other
articles of value. 
	Third Ward, Salt Lake City, had so many very
good things on their table, that it was rather
difficult to select what was most appropriate to
mention. In patchwork there was some over and
over hand sewing by a little girl four years old;
that child deserves to be praised; comb case cut
in wood work by a little boy, horseshoe covered
with velvet, edges corded, very neatly done, for
ornament, knitted tidy, made in flowers, very
handsome throw downs, in beautiful colors;
a patchwork quilt cover, neatly made, each seam
carefully pressed, the work all done by a small
boy; some drawings in very good taste by a boy
of the same ward.
	Of the city wards, there were many useful and
ornamental articles, made by little girls and boys,
all of them quite young, ranging in age from four
to fourteen, but as it is quite impossible to particu-
larize, we can only give a few, and say there were
many more just as good.
	Second Ward, very odd and handsome white
apron, elaborate crochet inserting and edging,
little girl.
	Fourth Ward, a cup and saucer in crochet work
by a little girl, that attracted the attention of all
who came in; flower painting, by a little girl from
the same ward, well done; also underclothing in
plain hand sewing.
	Sixth Ward, home-knit stockings, little girl;
card receiver in stars, made of thread on cut
pasteboard and bound, bows of ribbon; ribbon
work, banner worked on velvet, and other articles.
	Eighth Ward, a handkerchief bag made of a
towel, very pretty, by a little girl; sun-flowers,
large sized ones, so perfectly natural that any one
might pick them up thinking they were real; also
pretty wax flowers, and many other things.
	Tenth Ward made a good representotion of
various articles; fruit very good, and a handsome
quilt.
	Thirteenth Ward had an Essay on the First
Principles of the Gospel, written by a little girl
which deserves special mention, as to correctness
of style and expression; also from that ward a
very handsome ornamental banner, silk and tinsel
work, and a child's apron in colors, done in etch-
ing, and a handkerchief and reticule in novelty
lace.
	Fourteenth Ward had some hand sewing on
underclothing, very neatly done, and child's dress
made by hand, tucking, embroidery and button
holes, all very good indeed; wool flowers, hand-
somely framed, and very unique yellow and scarlet
tidy, crochet work; also daisy mats and crochet
lace.

[Column 3]
	Fifteenth Ward, there was quite a number of
useful and ornamental articles; there were the two
small trunks made by quite young boys; they were
examined carefully, and pronounced excellent
work; some very neat stocking darning by little
girls; very pretty and showy crazy quilts.
	Sixteenth Ward, an engine complete on wheels
made by a little boy (U. N. Narrow Guage); also a
wooden sled, by a boy, and a wheelbarrow from
another.
	Seventeenth Ward, a handsome reticule, made
of a silk handkerchief; crochet skirt, handsome
tidy, velvet and ribbon tidies, aprons, etc.; doll's
bed, made and trimmed, spread, shams and the
ruffles on the sham sheet composed of 72 scraps of
embroidery, neatly and regularly put together, by
a little girl; this was one of the curiosities. 
	Eighteenth Ward, some pencil sketches, by a
very little girl; also ornamental snowball, made of
white paper.
	Twenty-first Ward made quite a display. A
little wooden cradle, by a boy, was quite well
made; also a wooden knife box, made and painted;
there was very nice hand sewing by the little
girls, small dresses for children, made by hand,
pillow slips, etc. Of tidies, quilts, stockings,
cookery, preserves, and many odd things, there
was a great variety, and all very good.
	Certainly a great deal has been accomplished
by the children through the agency of the Prim-
aries, and the perseverance, patience and untiring
energy of the sisters who have had charge of
these helpful associations. They most assuredly
deserve the praise and the encouragement of all
interested in the rising generation. Theirs is a
great and noble work, and they should have all the
aid and assistance needful to help them in their
arduous labors.


AUNT PRESENDIA'S BIRTHDAY.

	According to an established custom among
many of the lady friends of the venerable sister,
Presendia L. Kimball, about fifty ladies met at her
residence, on September 7, 1888, to celebrate the
78th anniversary of the birth of this honored and
beloved mother in Israel.
	After congratulations and partaking of the
bountiful refreshments, furnished by loving hands,
the sisters spent a pleasant and profitable time in
social converse.  Sister Higbee, an aged veteran,
sang, "There's a difference between a Mormon
and a Saint," and afterwards the company joined
in singing the familiar and sublime hymn, "O my
Father, Thou that dwellest," etc.
	Sister Ann Tate offered a prayer, and the sisters
sang, "Home, Sweet Home."
	Sister Presendia Kimball then made a few re-
marks, but said she could not express her feelings
on such an occasion, but she felt very thankful
that the Lord had been so good to her. "Every
look is so good to me, so comforting, I do hope
the sisters will be blessed. This is a trying time
and we must cleave to the Lord."  Invited all the
sisters to speak, and hoped they would have a
good time.
	Sister Annie Savage said it hardly seemed like a
year since she saw all those dear old faces before,
and referred to Sister Kimball's telling them on
her last birthday, that they should all be allowed
to meet with her, and one another on her next
birthday (this year), which was now verified;
hoped Sister Kimball would live a long time, as
she did not want to miss the dear old faces, Sister
Savage alluded pathetically to her inability to hear
the voices of the sisters; hoped we would receive
a blessing, and so forth.  
	Sister Dover, Allen and Watmough each spoke
a few words, expressing their kind feelings and
love for Sister Kimball and for the truth.
	Sister Lula G. Richards was the next speaker,
and in her remarks alluded to the party two years
ago; when her mother was present, but now she


had gone to a better home, yet she felt that her
mother was there in spirit.  She referred to Sister
Kimball's having spoken in tongues on her last 
birthday and the sweet impression left on her
mind by the interpretation, which was given by 
Aunt Zina.
	Sisters Shulty, Tate, Whittaker, Nebeker and 
Mother Coon each made a few remarke, and the 
last named spoke in the gift of tongues, and the 
interpretation was given by Sister Kimball which
was very comforting to all present.
	Sisters Nebeker, Ware, Howe, Ridges, Higbee
Toone, Sharp, Howard and Grey, also Dr. Fer-
guson each said a few words of appreciation of 
and love for Sister Kimball, and expressed their
firmness in the Gospel, and their desires to prove
faithful.
	Sister Savage read a very kind letter from Sis-
ter Zina to Presendia L. Kimball, after which
there waa singing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet," and a benediction was pronounced by 
Sister Savage.
	A very sweet and affectionate poem, written by
Laura E. Pack, of Kamas, was read to the com-
pany during the day.  The birthday was an ex-
ceedingly pleasant one, not only to the hostess, in 
whose honor the ladies assembled, but to all who 
participated in the spirit of the meeting.
	The EXPONENT adds congratulations and best
wishes to those of the many, many friends of 
Aunt Presendia.
							E. H. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS. 

	The Drs. Shipp will commence their next class
in obstetrics on Monday, Oct. 15th, 1888. Ladies
wishing to join the class will please communicate
immediately either with Dr. E. R. Shipp, 16 Main
St., or Dr. M. C. Shipp, 59 S. First East St.


[Column 1]
MEMORIAL ANNIVERSARY.

REPORT OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MEETING
HELD IN THE OGDEN TABERNACLE, JULY
19TH, 1888, IN COMMEMORATION OF THE
LAST PUBLIC VISIT AND INSTRUCTIONS OF
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG, ON INVITA-
TION OF PRESIDENT JANE S. RICHARDS, TO
THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND YOUNG LADIES'
IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS OF THE
WEBER STAKE OF ZION, JUST ELEVEN
YEARS AGO THE 19TH INST.

(REPORTED BY JOHN M WHITTAKER.)

[Concluded.]
	Sister E. B. Wells, Editor of The WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, said:
	I feel glad to have the privilege of standing be-
fore you, just for a short time; and I am also glad
that there is but a few minutes left for me to
occupy.  I expect you are all tired, but no doubt
you will agree with me, that we have had a great
deal of good teaching.
	I feel to-day as I did eleven years ago to-day,
that this is a "red letter day" for the sisters of this
Stake of Zion.  I know that what was said on
that day has been like little seeds that have ger-
minated and grown up, and have since made a
harvest of good deeds, from the first appoint-
ment that was made here from this stand when
Sister Richards was chosen President of all the
branches of the Relief Society in this County, as
well as the Young Ladies'.  That appointment
was the first made in this dispensation of any
woman to preside over the Relief Society in an
organized capacity by President Young
on that occasion, and I bear testimony
that I heard him appoint Sister Jane S. Richards
to preside over all the societies and associations
in this Stake of Zion; and he also requested them

[Column 2]
at that time to make quarterly reports to be read
at quarterly conferences.  And it was here in
this Tabernacle that the first quarterly
conference of the Relief Society was called.
Bro. Richards gave out the notice by suggestion
of President Young, at the close of the meeting.
It was not long after that, that President Young
died.  And Sister Eliza went throughout this 
territory organizing in the several Stakes after
that pattern.
	Afterwards, I firmly believe it was revealed to
her, that she was to go forth and organize the
Young Ladies in a separate and distinct associa-
tion, but one in strict harmony and to work in per-
fect accord with the Relief Society.  And a great
work has been done since then.  I cannot help
repeating that this is a "red letter day" for the
women of Zion.  To speak of all the work that
has been done by the sisters, would take a great
deal of time.
	I know and can testify to the liberality of the
sisters of this Stake in giving means to the
Deseret Hospital.  The amount donated by them
has been next to that of the Salt Lake Stake, al-
though many Stakes have been very liberal.  And
when Brother Richards was speaking on that
subject, I thought of a little circumstance which
President Canute Peterson related when I was in
Sanpete, a short time ago.
	While he was absent on a mission in Scandina-
via, the sisters of Sanpete Stake, with all their
other donations, sent him a thousand dollars with
which to emigrate the poor from that country.  Do
you think we could ever have accomplished what
we have, unless we had been organized perfectly?
We should pray for those who are in responsible
positions. I feel positive that the sisters will sus-
tain Sister Zina D. H. Young in the position to
which she has been called—President over all the
Relief Society.  She will be at home before long.
I hope her health will be renewed.  I trust the
brethren and sisters will remember her and Sister
Richards in their prayers.  The position to which
Sister Richards has been called, has been filled
with efficiency.  And I trust the position of Sister
Zina will be filled with that efficiency with which
the work was performed by those who have gone
before.  Let the mantle of Sister Eliza fall upon
Sister Zina, that she may be able to satisfy the
people as Sister Eliza did in traveling among the
Saints, and assisting in doing good and in perform-
ing a great work; and it certainly is a great work.
I know that the sisters who labor in the organiza-
tions are striving to help build up the kingdom
and to work in harmony with the Bishops and
brethren; and that it is the desire of the sisters to
work in perfect harmony with the priesthood.
We must remember that there is a great deal to
do and a great amount of instruction to give; and
we are expected to work together.  There are
many things that it seems almost impossible in
our weakness to do; but when we receive encour-
agement from the brethren and are blessed of the
Lord, we persevere and go on with renewed
energy.  The sisters have just as essential a
work as the brethren, and while they do not go
abroad, preaching the Gospel to the nations of
the earth, they have a great work to do here at
home as missionaries.
	Since this meeting was called, I have looked
over some of the remarks of Presidents
Young and Taylor, who spoke eleven years ago
to-day, and have tried to get the spirit of that
meeting into my heart, so that I might realize it
here to-day.  And I think that the same spirit is
here.  It was a grand beginning, and I feel that
if Sister Richards wanted to resign her position,
it would be almost impossible.  Sometimes when
she has been sick and weak, and we have been
talking about these matters, she has said: "Well,
if I resign, somebody else can do it, better, per-
haps, than I."  Well, I don't think she should re-
sign a position she was called to by the President
any more than one of the Apostles should.  She
felt the same way in regard to the Hospital.  But
we all felt that we could not do without her in that
Board.  I pray God to bless and strengthen her more
abundantly.  She has given us a great treat here to-
day.  I think the Bishops and those who prepared the
dinner deserve great credit.  I heard several say
it was the best and most nicely arranged public
dinner that they ever attended.
	I feel to return my thanks to you, and especially
Sister Richards and those who proposed that
Brigham Young should come up here and speak
to the people assembled on that grand occasion we
now commemorate, and for the instructions he
then gave.  I hope you will all read about the
duties of the sisters, and all those who have pre-
served the WOMAN'S EXPONENT can read it from
that paper.  It was Bro. James Taylor who took
it down in short hand, and it was published after
President Young's death.  He spoke about home-
made bonnets and the manufacture of home-made
hats; and I remember very well when he came
and dedicated what was then called "The Co-
operative Millinery Establishment," but which
we generally speak of as the "Relief Society
Store."  He spoke of the silk culture, and urged
the sisters to plant mulberry trees, and about
storing up grain, and he seemed to remember
every little item that would come in the province
of the sisters to do, or which they could attend to,
I, for one, want to recollect these things; though,
perhaps, we do not carry out his instructions as
we should.  I remember hearing him say, that one
great mistake of his life was, that he paid all the
tithing for his family.  But if he had his life to
live over again, he would have every wife and 
every child each pay tithing.  Many of the other
leading brethren, when they paid their tithing,
would pay for their whole family also.  But things
are different in these days.  Every one should pay
tithing for himself or herself.  I remember an in-
stance of a young lady who taught school and
earned $100; I presume it was the most money
she ever had, and her mother said to her she had
better pay $10 for tithing.  But the young lady
thought it was too much to take $10 out of her
hard earnings, but purchased a nice switch of 
hair, and on her way home a sort of whirlwind
arose and took her switch and carried it away.
She advertised for it, and paid either fifty cents or
a dollar for advertising, but never found it
(Laughter).  She afterwards said if she had only
taken the advice of her mother and paid her tith-
ing, she would have been that much better off.
	I really feel that I am trespassing upon your
time; but I feel proud of this day.  It is a day
long to be remembered.
	President Jane S. Richards made some appro-
priate remarks about the anniversary, and called
upon Bishop E. Stratford, who was pleased to
have the happy privilege of meeting with the sis-
ters on so important an occasion, and trusted that
it would not be the last of such meetings.  He
was present eleven years ago, when President
Young delivered the sermon referred to.  He
had cause to appreciate the labors of the Relief 
Society in his ward, and felt to ask God to bless
the sisters in all they undertook to do.
	Sister M. A. Freeze, President of the Y. L. M.
I. A. of Salt Lake Stake, said:
	My brethren and sisters: I do, indeed, deem it
a privilege to stand before you and raise my voice 
in this assembly this day, and bear my testimony
that I know that Brigham Young was a prophet of
God, and that he was inspired of God in organiz-
ing the Relief and Young Ladies' Societies.  He
instructed them to work together with the same
purpose in view.  If I had no other proof of this
Gospel than this, I would know that it is the king-
dom of God, and that this is the work of God.
She felt to act in any and every capacity where
she might be called to labor, and prayed for the
welfare of Zion.


[Column 1]
Sister Maria W. Wilcox. Cor. Sec. Relief So-
ciety, Salt Lake Stake, said:
	My beloved brethren and sisters: I feel highly
honored and gratified in attending this meeting,
and feel this is a day long to be remembered; and
the instructions and counsel which have been
given, if we will follow them out in our lives,
will be beneficial to us all. These organizations
are timely; they have proved a great blessing to
the Saints. It has been the means of uniting the
people together in love and union and every good
and perfect work. And it is a pleasure to associate
in this capacity and realize the good we do from
time to time. I have been greatly blessed in
these associations, and I pray that the blessings of
our Heavenly Father may rest upon us at all
times. This is my desire, in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt said in substance, that she had
been pleased in what had been said, and that the
truths which had been uttered should be taken
home to every heart, and be lived up to in the fu-
ture. She desired to so live that her physical
and spiritual being would grow together in perfec-
tion.
	
She paid a high tribute to the work of the Re-
lief Society, and especially to the Deseret Hos-
pital.
	She thought we should so live as to be models,
not  only in morality and higher education, but
also in our physical beings. Our course should
be upward and onward, having high and noble
aims, and worthy purpose. Sister Pratt made
special reference to the labors in the Hos-
pital; that many had come there and been
marvelously healed by the power of God through
the ordinances of the Church. And also, that
that was a part of the treatment in the Hospital.
She believed that there was plenty of room in this
Church for all to labor in positions of trust, and
invoked the divine blessings of Providence upon
all, and especially the sisters, that they might gain
the crown that is awaiting the faithful.
	Sister Kimball said she desired to bear her testi-
mony to the truth of this work. I know Joseph
Smith was a prophet of God. I know no other
man could have done what he did. I know that
the principles which he taught are pure and holy.
I never have felt to be sorry for one moment,
although what I have had to pass through is known
to no one but God. Man could not realize it. I
could not express it. God knows I have done the
best I could. I know that Brigham Young was a
holy and righteous man. I would not give the
experience I have for all the wealth of this world.
I pray ever for exaltation and salvation in the
celestial kingdom of God. I feel, and have it in
my heart to be true to the end. I feel to bless
these my sisters. May God bless and comfort the
daughters of Zion, that we may be truly saviors
upon Mount Zion, is my prayer in the name of
Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie was pleased to be
here on so important an occasion, and he felt im-
pressed in looking over the people's faces to see
how promptly they would attend their meetings.
And he felt to thank God that there were those
who took an interest in such a great work as the
sisters have in hand. He did not feel to continue
his remarks, but asked the blessings of God upon
the people in the land of Zion.
	Sister Emily S. Richards expressed her kind
feelings, and was pleased to meet with those she
had learned to love while living in Ogden. She
desired to labor with the other sisters in the work
of God, and trusted she would, with the other sis-
ters, be blessed.
	President Jane S. Richards then expressed her-
self highly gratified with the proceedings, and
realized that she had been blessed this day, and
desired all those who had the same feeling to raise
their hands. (Every hand went up).
	She would like to hear from others, but it is

[Column 2]
late and we must close. She thanked those who
had so kindly contributed to the interest of the
occasion, the visitors and all who were present,
and prayed that God would ever bless the Relief
Society.
	The congregation joined in singing, "The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning." Benediction was
pronounced by Charles F. Middleton.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
	CASSIA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our first Relief Society Conference, which
convened June 23 last, was quite an event in
the early history of this, the Cassia Stake of
Zion.
	Nearly all the Society’s officers were present,
also the Stake authorities and several Bishops
of wards. The several branches of the Relief
Society in the stake were represented with one
exception, and their presidents reported them
as doing well, being alive to their duties and
flourishing as well as ever circumstances would
permit.
	The Presidents of the.Y. L. M. I. A. and
Primary Association also represented their
calling although but  few organizations had
been effected as yet.
	The Conference was addressed in an interest-
ing manner by Prest. Louisa Haight and her
Counselors, also Prest. Hunter of the Tooele
Stake and Sister Todd of Utah. Prest. Hor-
ten D. Haight, his Counselors and other
brethren gave some good instruction concern-
ing the duties and privileges of the Sisters.
	The speakers expressed a hope of spending
many another such an enjoyable occasion as
was our first conference.
				Louisa Pickett, Sec.

	VISITING TOUR, UTAH STAKE.
	On the morning of July 18th, 1888, per
appointment, the Stake Officers made a tour
through Utah Stake.
	Prest. Annie K. Smoot, in company with
First Counselor Eliza Taylor and Secretary
Mary Stewart, visited the southern part of the
County, namely, Springville, Spanish Fork,
Salem, Benjaman, Payson, Santaquin, Lake
Shore and Goshen, and then, on July 30th,
Prest. A. K. Smoot, in company with Second
Counselor Sarah E. Cluff and Assistant Secre-
tary Grace L. Smith, visited the northern part,
namely: Pleasant Grove, American Fork,
Alpine, Fairfield and Cedar Fort.
	While absent they held fourteen meetings;
met 1,023 children and 103 officers; traveled
140 miles, 56 miles by rail and 80 miles by
team, being absent 7 days, 4 days south and
3 days north; reorganized two Associations.
At each place programmes were carried out by
the children, consisting of songs, recitations,
etc.
	The officers of each Association gave verbal
reports, showing that the Associations
were all in a flourishing condition, and that
the officers were a united band of sisters. The
sisters gave some excellent instructions at each
place, both to the parents and children. 
	Prest. A. K. Smoot spoke on the subjects of
order, faith, obedience, prayer, etc. Exhorted
the sisters not to get discouraged in the great
work of teaching the future hope of Zion.
	The Spirit of God prevailed throughout all
the meetings; the children performed their
parts with zest and good will. The good roads,
pleasant weather, and the hearty welcome with
which the visitors were received, greatly re-
lieved, the monotonous and tiresome journey.
	Much credit is due to the officers of the
different Associations, and the brethren who
kindly assisted us in the discharge of our duties.
	The Primary Conference of Utah Stake

[Column 2]
was held at Lehi, Aug. 29th, in the Lehi Meet-
ing House, commencing at 2 o’clock p.m. On
account of the illness of Prest. A. K. Smoot,
the meeting was called to order by Sister Re-
becca Standing. Programme, consisting of
songs, recitations, Scripture exercises, ete., was
carried out by the children. Addresses were
made by Counselors Eliza Taylor and Sarah
Cluff. A short speech and song by W. W.
Willis, of Salt Lake City, when the meeting
was adjourned for six months.
	The forenoon was occupied by a business
meeting of all the officers of the different as-
sociations of Utah Stake. Verbal reports
were given in and different methods discussed,
after which the officers were all invited to the
school house, where a repast had been provided
by the sisters of Lehi. Over one hundred sat
down to the first table. A good spirit pre-
vailed and we had a good time.
	MARY STEWART Sec.
	GRACE L. SMITH Asst. Sec.
	
	SALT LAKE STAKE.	
The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion was held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Thursday, September 13th, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne presiding. After the usual
opening exercises, the Secretary called the
president’s roll. Twenty-five presidents and
five counselors reported, representing, thirty
branches of the Relief Society. Minutes of
previous conference read and accepted.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball addressed the meeting.
She spoke of her recent visit to San Francisco
and other parts of California, and the ideas
people outside entertained of our people; de-
scribed an interesting visit to a celebrated
church, and remarked that her visit had en-
larged her charity for those who were not of
our faith.
	Mrs. Ellen Barton spoke a short time; she
had recently returned from a visit to England;
had enjoyed her visit very much indeed, but
was glad to be at home again; thought the con-
dition of the world pitiable, because of their
willingness to accept evil reports, and their
lack of desire to hear the Gospel.	
	Prest. Horne spoke particularly about the
semi-annual reports being prapared to send in
to the Secretary as early as the 25th of Feb.
and of August, so that a correct report may be
made in time to read at the Stake conference in
March before the General Conference in April;
also in September before the General Confer-
ence in October. Hoped the sisters who had
so liberally sustained the Hospital would be
blest fourfold, and advised them to continue in
their good work. 
	Adjourned to 3 p.m. Singing, ,‘Doxology.”
Benediction by Mrs. B. W. Smith.
	Afternoon session: After the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, Mrs. B. W. Smith ad-
dressed the conference; spoke of the encourag-
ing reports that had been read and of the
Primary Fair; thought it a good showing, and
urged those present to go and encourage the
little workers. Advised the sisters to teach
the children to be faithful, truthful, honest and
industrious.	
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor considered it one of the
first duties of the Relief Society to attend the
conference. The organizations were by the
Prophet Brigham Young, that we might be
prepared for our many duties. Spoke of the
carelessness and lack of energy of some who
had been heretofore more diligent, and urged
those present to exhort, persuade and encourage
others to know and understand, and gain the
reward we have started out for.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells thought it was very com-
mon, to excuse ourselves in not doing our duty;
felt that we ought to attend the meetings con-
vened for our improvement, that we might
gain intelligence, wisdom and understanding.


Urged the sisters to read more, and learn what 
was transpiring here and elsewhere; thought
our lives and characters and example should 
be so exemplary as to refute the evil reports
circulated against us.  Mentioned the proposed 
visit of Mrs. Saxon and Mrs. Colby, two dis-
tinguished suffrage women and public speakers, 
and hoped the sisters would attend their 
lectures.  Advised the mothers to teach the
children to be industrious, as it prevented a 
great deal of mischief, and also to see that the 
children attended the Sunday School and Prim-
ary Association.  
	Mrs. E. Yates, Prest.  of the Relief Society 
of Millard Stake, bore a strong testimony to 
the truth of this work, and spoke of the scat-
tered condition of the settlements in the Stake 
where she presided, and the difficulty of meet-
ing together often under those circumstances.  
She gave the mothers good counsel in regard 
to controlling their children, and teaching 
them when very young.  Spoke eloquently 
upon Temple work, required at our hands, and 
the preparation we ought to make in order to 
perform it.  Related an interesting incident 
that occurred to a brother in Sanpete, urging 
him to perform the work for the dead.  
	Mrs. M. A. Freeze thought we should obtain 
the records of our ancestors, and leave it in 
proper order for our children if we could not 
do the work ourselves.  Exhorted all to dili-
gence in the path that leads to eternal life. 
Said many good things in a happy manner.  
	Mrs. R. Jones occupied a few minutes in 
speaking of the labors and duties devolving 
upon the sisters; thought we were not aware of 
the great responsibilities; we had entered upon 
a labor of love and life; let us help each other.  
Referred feelingly to the training of the young
people in keeping the commandments of God.  
	Prest. Horne: "Our pure minds require to 
be stirred up by way of remembrance, that we 
may not fall into a state of lethargy, that we 
may receive the bread of life that comes from 
above, which we require every day."  She 
related a dream of Mrs. Saxon's, the lady who 
is about to visit Salt Lake, that she had told 
when here on a visit in 1882.  Mrs. Horne 
pointed out the meaning,etc.	*	*	*	Spoke
of her visit to the old Church of St. Martyn's
when in England, recently, and said that over the 
entrance was the inscription:  "Holiness to the 
Lord," sbowing that they still retained that 
ancient custom of Israel.  She spoke upon the 
principle of tithing, and said she well remem-
bered when a girl, that every 10th shock of 
wheat in a field had a green bough stuck in it, 
denoting that the 10th shock was held sacred
for the ministry.  Urged the sisters to attend to 
paying tithing; also to cultivate humility, that
they might not be easily overcome by the 
follies of life.  
	Con-erence adjourned until December.  Sing-
ing, "Our God, we raise to Thee."  Benedic-
tion by Mrs. E. Howard. 
		E. HOWARD, Stake Secretary R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The regular semi-monthly meeting was held
in the 14th Ward Assembly rooms, Aug. 18,
1888, Mrs.M. Isabella Horne presiding.  Singing,
"O My Father," etc. Prayer by Mrs. How-
ard.  Singing, "O say what is Truth," etc.
	President Horne addressed the audience
Hoping all were well; was very thankful to 
see them all again; had been very successful
while abroad in getting her records; had a very 
interesting experience by being able to meet
many who were interested in hearing about
the Gospel.  Had traveled 15,000 miles; met
many gentlemen and ladies,a very few ignorant
persons were rude and impolite. 
	"I also met many of the Saints.  I hope I
have sown some seed that will bring forth 
good fruit.  I visited an Industrial school


while in Liverpool which I very much ad-
mired for it is proving a great blessing to 1,000
little waifs who have no parents;  they are
taken good care of and taught different trades
that will help them to become useful members
to society.  I am very thankful that it is as 
well with us as it is.  I hope we will acknowl-
edge God in all things.  I pray you may all 
enjoy the blessings of God on you and that
you may have peace and the Spirit of God.
	Mrs. Silver sang  "We thank thee O God 
for a Prophet" etc.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor.  "I had perfect confi-
dence in the blessing that was promised on
Mrs. Horne before she left by one of the Apos-
tles; I felt all would be well with her; she was
ignorant of our doctrines and way of living as
there are.  We hope that many who are in in-
tense darkness in the world will yet be brought
to the light of the Gospel.  The gifts we have
are from our Heavenly Father.  Let us be
humble and faithful and overcome self, and 
bring ourselves into perfect subjection to the
will of God.  I hope we will try and live by
the light of the Spirit of God."
	Mrs. Watmongh.  "We are thankful that
Sister Horne has come home in safety.  I have 
an idea that all our testimonies are recorded
above and they are accepted by the Lord, and 
the better it will be for us thereafter the more
we bear.  May the Lord keep us faithful."
	Mrs. H. M. Whitney.  "I also feel to rejoice
over sister Horne's safe return.  The Lord
helped me to come to meeting to-day.  I plead
continually for the youth of Zion that they
may be kept in the ways of the Lord.  Many
will keep the faith, but some will sell their
birthright for a mess of pottage.  May God
help our young men and young women to learn
the ways of God and walk therein."
	Sister Jane Perkins: "I know this is the work
of God and I rejoice in it continually, and
may God keep us safe to our religion." 
Mrs. B. W. Smith.  "Do good to our
neighbor; keep the Sabbath day holy; attend
to our prayers; walk in the path of duty."
	Mrs. Dr. Barney.  "How do we know which
is the true church?  By the signs which follow
the believer.  We know by the scriptures be-
ing fulfilled in our day and in our church."
	Mrs. H. C. Young.  "We rejoice that we 
can read and understand the scriptures as they
are written.  The greatest knowledge we can
have is to understand the ways of the Lord
and the law of God is true learning." 
	Mrs. Stevenson spoke a short time very in-
terestingly concernimg her visit to England
and fullfillment of prophecy.
	A letter was read asking for assistance to
emigrate a family from England. 
	Mrs. Horne said a few words in closing. 
Singing "Praise to the Man," ect.  Benedic-
tion by Mary Silver.                         E H.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
BY M. J. TANNER.
[Continued.]
	Williamsburg, Thursday, May 20th.  We
are very tired after yesterday’s tramp.  I am
busy preparing to move on to-morrow.  I have
become much attached to my cousin and her
family; the boys think they would like to go to 
Utah; I should be so glad to have them; it
pains me very much to think that I may never
see them any more.  I expect to meet my
Aunt Cornelia, my father’s sister, at Lockport;
she is also aunt to cousin Ettie, and the rela-
tives, I have seen so far, are on my father’s
side.  Before reaching Lockport I shall visit
at Ithaca with my mother’s relatives.  I have
enjoyed my visit here very much, and seen 
such things as Ettie could show me, though we

[Column 2]
could be engaged many days more, and still
see but very little of the great city.
	In the afternoon we go over to New York to
take a last look.  It is quite like a museum to 
go through the large stores: they are on a 
magnificent scale.  We stop at Ridley’s, which
is one of the largest, and go through it, as we 
have done other places, just to see.  I make a 
few small purchases, and wish once more for a
longer purse.  Prices here are the lowest I
have seen.  The stores are closed at six oclock,
and an iron grating drawn in front of them.
We walk along, looking at many things of in-
terest on the sidewalk.  We see lovely things
in embroideries, laces and flowers; one large
show window is filled with dolls; the sign on it
reads, “The Babies on our block.” Dolls of
every size and description, some of them as 
large as a child two years old, and beautifully
dressed. 
	When we get tired of looking we return
home; call at the express office to have them 
take my trunk to the depot.
	Ithica, May 16th.  Weather cloudy; it rained 
a little in the morning.  I have said the last
goodbye.  It is always sad parting with those
we may never meet any more.  Cousin Charlie
came with me to the train.  We crossed the
river at Hoboken, the widest ferry I have
crossed yet.  I said goodbye to Charlie, and
sped away on the train to see new places and 
new faces.

	Farewell, friends, by distance parted,
	Who can part without regret?
	Memory claims the tender-hearted,
	And we may remember yet.  
			
	The trees and fields are green now, and nature 
is lovely after being shut in by high walls,
where one never steps on the ground and sees 
only houses.  After all the magnificence of
man, there is an exhilaration in nature’s differ-
ent aspects that gives to the the mind another
train of ideas.
	11:15 we stop at a nice little station.  The
hills are covered with grass and trees, farms
and orchards.  A cemetery is on the hillside,
and the white stones gleam among the foliage.
Pass the factory where the Beaty Organs are
made.  News agent going through the train
every five minutes with something for sale.  Pass
through a long tunnel and come out in a beau-
tiful country, “Lovely as a poet’s dream.” If
I could only place it on paper, but words can-
not convey an idea of the lovely scenery,
houses nestling among the trees, villages scat-
tered among the hills, farms wherever the loca-
tion will permit.  Pass through another long
tunnel and stop at a station.  Quite a number 
of people get on the train.  It looks strange to
see farms so high on the mountains; they look
like patchwork.  We pass a pretty cemetery; the
graves are covered with blossoms.  We are
traveling through the Blue Ridge Mountains.
Pass Portland, a pretty town; houses mostly
painted white.
	12 m.  Water Gap.  The Delaware River
runs through the mountains here.  The eve-
ning is fine.  We are going up a steep grade 
and the iron horse puffs hard.  We pass
through a timbered country.  Some one is try-
ing to clear a farm but it looks discouraging.
1 p.m.  Another tunnel.  The country is 
covered with verdure.  The Lightning Ex-
press goes by; it is well named.  We go
through pine woods and it looks as though we
were on the top of the mountains.  A few old 
frame houses are scattered along, but every-
thing denotes poverty.  Moscone, 1:30 A pic-
turesque town.  The mountains are not like 
ours; the hills are not so high, nor the canons
so deep. We are descending and pass through 
another tunnel.  This is five tunnels we have 
passed through.  Scranton Pa.  The train
stops for dinner.  Binghamton 4:15  A pretty 
city. Omega, 5 p.m. Change cars.  The coun-
try is hilly as we travel along the Susqeuhana


River. Reach Ithica at last and receive a 
kind welcome from my cousins. Find two let-
ters waiting for me.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOW FAR?

	I have a daughter just launching into woman-
hood, and I feel, as every mother does, likely, 
that I should like it to be a noble womanhood
for her sake, also for my own, for I should like
to do my life's work well, and the moulding of 
characters seems to be the great work for the
mothers.
	An incident happened this morning that has
kept my thoughts busy all day; so, in the hope 
that an abler pen than mine will take up the 
subject, I submit these thoughts to the EXPON-
ENT.
	This daughter wished to wear an article of
dress, or ornament, that is certainly a fashion
of Babylon, to which I objected, when she re-
marked, that if she did not, she would appear
odd from all other girls, and she could not see
why I objected, for Mrs. P——, President of 
the Young Ladies' Association, wore one. If
the daughters of good women, and good women
themselves, follow some of the fashions of the 
ungodly, where can we draw a line so we can
know how far we dare venture and still be safe 
from danger of contamination from the spirit
that prompts these fashions?
	We want our daughters' lives to be as bright
and happy as possible, but should we not try to
instil correct doctrine into their minds, even on
the subject of dress. My faith is, that if ever
we become the instruments in God's hand to 
accomplish His great purposes, we shall even 
dress in "holiness to the Lord."
							E. T. G.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The tight coat sleeve is entirely abandoned
in favor of the sleeve of puffs and plaits.
	A new bangle is made of gold wire in the
 shape of an arrow which curves around the
arm.
	Outside pockets will be worn with fall gowns.
As they are convenient and can be made orna-
mental they will be heartily welcome.
	Bows of plaited braid appear at the foot of 
the skirt in all new gowns. They are well re-
ceived, ae they look well and save the dress
from wear.
	Realism permeates all arts—even the milli-
ners. The latest decoration for bonnets is a 
bunch of red clover blossoms or thistleheads.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Julia Wolfe, an English lady, has com-
posed an opera entitled "Carina." The Musical
Standard says it will be produced in London
shortly. 
	Charles Lamb's grave at Edmonton is sadly
neglected. The simple slab of limestone which
marks the spot is nearly hidden with weeds
and grasses. 
	Amelie Rives-Chanler confines herself to very
few books, but those she does read are selected
with great care. Shakspere, Poe, and George
Eliot are her favorite authors. 
	The Senate has printed Mr. Blair's report
from the committee on education and labor, re-
commending a prohibitory amendment and has
embodied in it Mrs. Bittenbender's arguments
before the committee on behalf of the W. C. 
T. U. 
	Mrs. Alma Tadema is an instance of the

[Column 2]
kind of women, constantly growing more num-
erous, who achieve success and fame in the
outside world and still are thoroughly the mis-
tress of their homes. She is a model house-
keeper and adopts for a motto, "Kitchen first, 
studio second." 
	The world of art owes Princess Torrearsa a 
great debt for the preservation of the famous
collection of Greek vases brought together by 
the late archaeologist Serradifaleo. Through
her efforts the collection has been placed in the
museum of Palermo, at Sicily, where it will be
doubtless kept for all time. 
	The poems of Miss Mary Robinson, the En-
glish verse writer, have been translated into 
French, and, as a fitting acknowledgment of
her indebtedness, she is about to marry her
translator, Prof. Darmesteter of the College
of France. Miss Robinson is the author of 
the biography of Emily Bronte. 
	A bill has passed both the senate and house
of representatives to provide for the appoint-
ment of three police matrons for the District
of Columbia, at a salary of $600 a year each. 
These matrons, who are to care for women
prisoners in the nation's capital, are to be ap-
pointed on the recommendation of ten women 
in good standing in the district. 
	There are not many men who have the business
ability necessary to the successful management 
of an income of $7,000, a month. No wonder
that her business managers are surprised at 
Mrs. George Westinghouse of Pittsburg, whose
income is considerably larger than the amount
mentioned and yet who handles it with wonder-
ful shrewdness and business tact. 
	The fact that women have clever hands and
nimble fingers as well as brains is being demon-
strated more and more clearly every day. Since
Rosa Bonheur first showed the world what a 
woman might do for art, the growth of the 
number of artists of the gentler sex has been
on the constant increase. The latest success
is that of Miss Bentley of Cincinnati, a
teacher of wood carving. A recent exhibition 
of the work done by her lady pupils shows
some remarkable originality of design and 
great firmness and delicacy of execution. 
	General Philip H. Sheridan died of "heart
failure" after several months' illness, August 
5th last. The remote cause of death was
disease in the valves of the heart. He was 
under sixty years of age, having been born at 
Somerset, Ohio, March 6, 1831. General 
Sheridan's parents came from Ireland and 
settled in Ohio in the first quarter of the cen-
tury. At twelve years of age the boy, Phil, 
found employment in a hardware store. Next
he passed to the dry goods counter. While
thus employed he heard of an opportunity to
go to West Point, and at once wrote to the 
Congressman of his district about it, and to his
surprise was nominated. Five years were
spent at the National Academy, but at twenty-
two he was graduated and assigned to duty on 
the frontier, where he was stationed at the
opening of the late war. His career during
the war was that of cavalry officer, a hard
fighter, and a most successful one. He exem-
plified his organization in a most striking way, 
at once earnest, courageous, persistent, cautious, 
quick, and spirited. He gave to his men an 
intrepidity, confidence, and audacity like his
own, which enabled him to get a great deal
more work out of ten thousand men than
another commander would get from twenty
thousand. His presence with a command
fairly doubled its strength. Thus another of 
the "Old Guard" is gone.—Ex.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Centerville, Davis Co., August 8th, 1888, of
typhoid pneumonia, Sister Emeline Leavitt Smith, wife of
President William R. Smith, aged fifty-six years. Deceased
was born in Canada, in 1832, was baptized when abont
twelve years of age; shared in many of the trials and per-
secutions of the Saints. She lived in plural marriage with
her husband, and was true to her covenants. She was a 
faithful wife, a loving mother, a kind neighbor, and was
beloved by all who knew her. She was counselor in the
Relief Society for many years, which position she held at
the time of her death   She discharged all her duties
with credit to herself and the satisfaction of others. She
will be well remembered by many who have shared her
hospitality. She leaves a husband, three sons and four
daughters, a number of grandchildren and a host of 
friends to mourn her loss.

	Mary Ann Reeves was born February 12th, 1812, in the
town of Birmingham, in the County of Warwick, Eng-
land. Embraced the Gospel in the year 1840; in the year
1852 she, with her husband and three children, embarked
on the ship Ellen Maria to New Orleans, from thence up
the river to Kansas City, crossed the plains in A. O.
Smoot's company; her youngest child died and was buried
in the Black Hills; arrived in the valley September 3rd;
lived in Salt Lake City two years, after which she and her
family moved to Centerville, Davis County, which was her
home up to the time of her death. When the Relief So-
ciety was organized in Centerville, she was appointed
treasurer of the Society; she held that office for several
years. About ten days before she died she went to pay a 
visit to her daughter, who had gone to reside at Brigham 
City, where she was taken very sick, from which she never 
recovered, but died August 11th, 1888. Her remains
were brought to Centerville for interment. She was a kind
and affectionate mother, wife and friend. She died as she
had lived, a true and faithful Latter-day Saint, with a sure
hope and faith of coming forth in the resurrection of the
just.										A. C.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY"S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1888.	No. 9


THE AUTUMN.
Ah! this is the saddest time of the year,
Methinks I have heard, that the poets sing,
When days are gloomy, and landscape drear,
And the birds of passage are on the wing;
For the woods are brown and the fields are bare,
And the chill of Autumn is ev’rywhere.

I'll hie me away to some cosy nook,
’Mong the mossy rocks and the falling leaves,
And study awhile “Dame Nature’s book”
And gather a few of her choicest sheaves;
For this is her mellowest harvest time—
The season of sentiment, most sublime.

The hills are crowned with foliage gay,
Rich royal purple, brown, yellow and red;
But the skies are leaden, and dull and gray
And the summer flowr’s are lying dead;
Pale, withered garlands are round us strewn;
Yet a mantle of beauty is o’er them thrown.

 We think of the lov’d ones gone like the flow’rs,
Whose fragrance still lingers around the place;
And pensive and lonely are the hours,
As memorys’delicate lines we trace;
And the sere and yellow leaf entwine;
And lay the chaplet upon love’s shrine.

Oh; fanciful visions so far away,
Over the hills and the mountains too;
Farther and farthar my footsteps stray,
And quicker my heart doth the way pursue;
For the sunlight guides, and the shadows flee,
And the beautiful vista, is fair to see.

And I haste as it were with charmed feet,
While my heart beats high with passion wild,
List! I hear the music so soft and sweet,
I heard when a winsome, innocent child;
’Tis the rustle of leaves, and the sighing breeze,
And the murmur of voices ’mong the trees.

They whisper to me, and I answer too—
Though never a sound escapes from my lips
Yet, I know the message they bring is true
And I feel it thrill to my finger tips,
Ev’ry sense I possess affirms its truth,
And echoes back to the days of my youth.

Yes, the past with its gleam of love and light,
Its sunshine and shadow	its smiles and tears,
Has a rainbow of promise ever bright.
That lightens the path of my future years, 
And my faith grows stronger as time rolls by, 
That the goal I’m seeking is drawing nigh.

But I've flown so far in my dreamy flight,
That perhaps ’tis time to retrace my way;
I fear the present is lost to my sight,
Better come back to the scenes of to-day;
For mortals must deal with the things that are real,
Tho’ poets oft wander ’mid the ideal.

What’s this I’ve been dreaming here by the fire,
While in fancy I flew far o’er the hills? 
What symphony grand did my soul inspire, 
While a magic elixir my bosom thrills?
’Tis night and I’m sitting here quite alone,
And the beautiful visions I saw have flown.

I hear only the wierd and tragic wind,
As it whistles and shrieks and moans and sighs;
Ah, this is the potent power I find
Which brought me the genii, so wondrous wise
That opened the realm of poetic thought
And tender branches of evergreen sought.

These were remembrances loving and true,
Scattered at intervals over life’s way,
The pleasures we shared, the friends we know,
That are fresh and and green in our hearts to-day;
Fragments of beauty from out the dead past,
Which over our lives have a halo cast.
								E. B. W.


[Column 1]
FOREIGN LETTER.
Nottingham, July, 1888.
EDITOR MILLENNIAL STAR:
	DEAR BROTHER:— Among the events that
have recently taken place is one worthy of
mention in the columns of The Star. I refer
to the visit of my aunt, Sister Isabəlla M. 
Horne, to her native country (England), after
an absence of fifty-six years. She was accom-
panied by her sister, Harriet Ellis, of Wood's
Cross, Utah, and her son, Richard S. Horne.
	This venerable lady left her home in Salt
Lake City, Utah, on the 12th of May last, and
reached Glasgow on the 30th of the same month.
	During her stay in England she visited
Rainham, in Kent, her birthplace, went into
the old home of her girlhood, and attended
religious services in the old church, where she
was christened in February, 1819. Sister
Horne has availed herself of opportunities of
mingling with the Saints, particularly with the
sisters of the Relief Society, giving them good
counsel and words of encouragement, and re-
lating much of her experience among the
Saints from 1836 to the present. At London
she held quite a controversy with two of the
leading ladies of the woman's suffrage cause,
and succeeded in removing some prejudice and
imparting information concerning "Mormon-
ism," the "Mormons," and their beliefs and
practices, that was new light to them. 
One of the ladies was very curious to know
how polygamous families get along, and
pointedly asked Sister Horne if her husband
was a man of many wives. "My husband has
other wives," was the reply. With eyes wide
open, expressive of the greatest astonishment,
the lady asked, "How did you feel?" "Just as
you would feel," replied my aunt. "I am a
woman like yourself, and, but for my religious
convictions, would no more have consented for
my husband to take another wife than you 
would; but I know that the principle of plural
or celestial marriage is true and from God. 
God has spoken from the heavens, and raised
up the boy-prophet, Joseph Smith, to establish
His kingdom on the earth in these the last days,
and I have a testimony of the truth of these
things. I have had the honor of entertaining
the Prophet in my own home, and know that
he was a man of God." "Well, but you don't
expect to convert us to these things?" "Oh,
no, madame. If we wished to convert you to 
our religious belief, we would begin with the
first principles, not with the highest and most
exalted ones."
	At Shrewsbury one of the ladies whom Sis-
ter Horne met there stated that she had read a
book written against the "Mormons," in which
the declaration was made that President Brig-
ham Young was in the habit of murdering his
wives when he became tired of them. Sister
Horne looked the speaker in the face and asked,
"And did you believe such trash as that?" "I 
did, for I knew nothing to the contrary." "I
am surprised," said Sister Horne, "that any
sensible woman should credit such falsehoods.
No man loved his family more dearly than did
Brigham Young, and he was greatly beloved
by them." The lady expressed pleasure at
hearing these statements in emphatic refutation
of the outrageous slander. 
Mr. Editor, here was one of Utah's "down-
rodden" women, "escaped" from her home

[Column 2]
among the Mormons, defending their religion
and bearing testimony of its truth after fifty-
two years of personal experience among that
people, frequently saying she would be glad to 
return to her mountain home among the
Saints.
	Now let the bawling Jarman, or any other
defamer of Utah's women, forever hold his
peace; for here is a living rebuttal to his foul
aspersions in regard to them.
	No freer women live on the earth than the
women of Utah, and nowhere else are they
placed on such equality with men; nor is her
virtue more carefully and jealously guarded
than among the Mormons, as evidenced by the
testimony of Sister Horne. 
Your brother, etc.,
GEO G. HALES.
—Millennial Star.


DESCRIPTIVE LETTER. 

	MURRAY, Idado, Sept. 5, 1888.
*	*	We had to stop over at Umatilla
twenty-three hours at the most miserable hotel
one could imagine. All the folks, excepting
myself, strolled down to the banks of the
Columbia River, that runs not more than a
block or two from the hotel.
	Papa met us at Spokane; we stayed not more
than fifteen minutes, and what we could see of
the town from the depot, it looked like a very
pretty, as well as a very enterprising city. We
took the U.P. to the Couer-d'-alene Lake; it is
about an hour's ride. It was real early when
we landed; about half past five a.m. We had
breakfast and dinner on the steamer; it was
my first experience of the kind, and I enjoyed
it immensely, as did all the folks of our party.
How I wished every minnte you were there to
enjoy it with me.
	Oh, I never was on such a lovely lake—I
shall not go back on dear old Salt Lake, don't
for a moment think it, but this was so different.
The water is so very deep that it looks a dark
green color, and on every side the mountains
are covered with dense groves of pine, fir, cedar
and spruce. The captain of the steamer was
so very nice; took us all over it, and showed us
all the points of interest. After we leave the
lovely lake, we go up the Couer-d'-lene River,
which is just as beautiful as the lake in its way.
It bends and winds around the grand old moun-
tains like some great snake. When we were
about half way up the river, the captain
pointed out a large mountain as Medicine
Mountain; they say the Indians worship it, and
whenever they are sick they come here and
pray to it, thinking it will cure them. A very
strange idea, isn't it? but then, I think it is
quite reasonable, for Indians.
	Along the river's banks there are great piles
of wood, all chopped and split. The Indians
up here are quite industrious; they chop wood
all the time, and sell it to the white men.	*
	I must tell you, dear grandma, about the
old father that traveled with us from Spokane
to the old mission; he was the first white man
that ever came here; he is about eighty-four
years old; and came here fifty years ago. I
cannot at present recall his name, but he is
such a dear old man; the mission have done a
noble work with the red-men in this part of
the country. After we land we take the train
to Osborn, and about a mile or so from where


we start we come to the old mission; they say
the old mission house that was built when they
first came here has not a single nail in it; 'tis
made with wooden pins; I have seen many like
it illustrated in the Harper of the old mission
in Southern Cal. The old father's name is
Father Joset, it just now occurred to me.
	At Osborn we saw from a distance our future
home; that is, the building spot. It is thickly
covered with great tall pines, spruce and firs,
some over a hundred feet high, and at the back,
not many rods away, runs the river. There are
not many buildings there as yet, but as soon
as all build that have lots over there, we will
have quite a town. If you were well I'm sure
you would enjoy the trip over the mountains
from Osborn to Murray, which is about eighteen
miles. You wind first around one mountain
and then another, until it makes one almost
dizzy. Oh, the mountains, the mountsins, they
are so beautiful; our mountains at home are
grand, but these are really beautiful, with their
dense groves of trees and underbrush.
Murray has two streets only; Main St. runs
East and West; the other runs South into Main.
Murray is built in a small gulch, half a mile
across in the widest place. We have two daily
papers and one weekly; quite an enterprising
little place.
	I'm sure you would enjoy sitting out on our
porch, where you could hear the water rushing
down day and night; 'tis so cold at morn-
ing and evening, that one has to wear heavy
clothes.
	Very lovingly,
		VERONA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL
		  BY M. J. TANNER.
		      [Continued.]
	Ithaca, Monday, May 25th, 1885. Went to
a Presbyterian meeting with my cousin yester-
day, and improved the time making acquaint-
ances among them. There are four sisters and
a niece, all maiden ladies, and not a member of
this branch of the family to transmit the name.
Uncle John Bessac's family will all be gone when
they pass away. They tell me many, many
things of historical interest, and give me the
likeness of my great uncle, Henry Bessac, and
related anecdotes of Col. Nichols, who was
their great-grandfather, and mine by one more
removal. During the Revolutionary War, in
which he took an active part, Grandfather
Bessac was at the house of his father-in-law,
Col. Nichols, when it was attacked by tories.
A shot came through the window, grazing his
head; failing to kill him, they entered and beat
him over his head, the scars of which he
carried the rest of his life. They showed me
a letter, of which I kept a copy, written a
short time before his death.
	Wednesday, May 27. Weather pleasant.
Get another letter from home; all is well.
Answer it, and go with Cousin Calista to see
the Cornell University, which is on the hill
just above the town. The stage takes us up
the hill, and we walk to the conservatory. The
grounds are very pleasant. We go through
the building, and admire the flowers, the loveli-
est I ever saw. Go over to the main building,
and see the museum. Such a variety of stuffed
animals in glass cases. The first we notice is a
Bengal tiger; measures twelve feet from his
nose to the tip of the tail; he is a handsome
animal, but I admire him just where he is. In
the same case is a wild cat and several speci-
mens of house cat, another tiger and some
skeletons that I cannot name. In another case
is a noble looking deer, a camel and calf camel,
some skeletons, and a double calf, two heads,
two tails, two sets of legs and one body. There
are monkeys, snakes and birds, and a very
[Column 2]
handsome black bear, with a history; he never
killed anybody. The tiger had a history, too;
he was a man eater. Bones of a mastadon and
fac similes of skeletons, without labels; two
enormous turtles—a man might crawl inside
them. In the next story we see curiosities
from the sea; many of them are fac similes
made of colored glass, and show us the beau-
ties of the ocean; sponge and coral in great
variety, and a great variety of birds, some of
them very beautiful. It is time to close, and
we have to leave without going to the next
story.
	Thursday, 29th. Visit the farm or country
seat at Brookside, on the bank of Geauga Lake.
The rocks here are slate, and the lake is very
clear and pretty. The youngest sister lives
here during the summer, and their brother's
widow is with her. I am much interested in
them, and have a pleasant visit. We stay all
night and come home on the 11 a.m. train.
Take dinner with Calista.
	Saturday, May 30. This is Decoration
Day, and is a holiday. It rained all the fore-
noon, but in the afternoon we see a great many
people going with flowers to the cemetery. To-
wards evening I go out for a ride with a friend
of my cousin's. I am looking for a letter from
my aunt at Lockport. I do not know the
name of my cousin's husband, I only know her
as Cousin Emily, and the address, which is
No. 111, Vine St., as I have addressed all
my letters to my aunt.
	Monday, June 1. I intended going to Lock-
port to-day, bot have received no letter. I
have looked among my papers, but find no
name, so I conclude to wait another day.
	Tuesday, June 2. Concluded to travəl on
and take the chance of finding Cousin Emily.
I left Ithaca on the 6 a.m. train, arrived at
Lockport at 12 m. Asked the hackman to 
take me to 111, Vine Street. "What name?"
said the man. "I do not know the name,"
said I, "I only know the number. The lady
I am to meet is Mrs. Bond, but I do not know
the name of the gentleman with whom she is
stopping, I only have the post office address,
which is No. 111, Vine St." "Upper Town or
Lower Town?" "I do not know." "What is
the gentleman's occupation?" "He is a rail-
road man." I gave him the check for my
trunk; he came back, saying it was all right; it
was Robert Duff, and he was looking for me.
I felt quite relieved, for it placəd me in such a
foolish situation. When I drove up Aunt
Permelia came out to meet me. She was very
glad to see me, and my cousin welcomed me
very kindly, and I soon got acquainted. After
tea Cousin Emily and her daughter took me
for a walk. We go to the bridge near the locks.
The freight train, which came in soon after I
did, tipped some of their cars off the bridge,
which is over a very deep ravine or gulf,
through which the canal passes. Fortunately
they were near the bank, and the damage is
not as much as it might otherwise have been.
It was caused through the breaking of a wheel.
No lives were lost, but it is a great deal of
work to get the cars back on the track again,
and is an inconvenience to other trains that
wish to pass. We went down on the locks and
watched a boat go through. It is certainly a
wonderful piece of engineering skill. It is
built with immense stones, and looks as if it
might defy the wear of ages. They are made
to carry boats up and down hill. They form
boxes in which the boat enters, when a gate is
shut down, and the water fills in until the boat
raises on a level with the next box or lock. It
is drawn in by means of a span of mules on
the tow path. Another gate is closed behind
it, which floats it to a level with the next lock.
So it goes to the top of the hill. The boats
come down on the other side by the same pro-
cess. One channel is to go up and the other
to go down. Between the channels is filled
[Column 3]
with solid masonry steps, leading from one level
to another. Stone steps lead down the bank,
and everything in the evening air is "stone
cold."
	We return to the house, stopping on the
way at a grocery store to make a few pur-
chases. The proprieter says he keeps free
lunch: " A glass of water and cold shoulder."


A PLEASANT PAYTY.

	On Saturday, Sept. 8th, 1888, a surprise
party was given by the 1st Ward Primary
Association of Richfield, in respect to Bishop
Poulson and Bro. Peterson, who were to start
for Provo the following Monday to stand their
trials for unlawful cohabitation.
	At 2  o'clock p.m. the Presidency and mem-
bers of the Association, their parents, together
with the leading brethren and sisters of the
city (making a total of 160), gathered at the
Social Hall, and awaited the arrival of the
brethren. After they came, the meeting was
opened with singing and prayer. There was
an appropriate programme, consisting of songs,
recitations, essays; etc., rondered by the child-
ren; also some interesting remarks, made by
Bishop Joseph S. Horne, Bro. N. C. B. Orrock,
Simon Christenson and W. G. Baker. Bishop
Poulson and Bro. Peterson expressed their
gratitude for the respect shown to them, and
thanked the people for the same; said they
were greatly surprised. They were presented
with a few dollars as a token of remembrance
from the Association.
	The tables were then spread with delicious
and various kinds of picnic, and  blessed by
Bro. Victor E. Bean. The people then par-
took of the refreshments.
	There was a special meeting called the same
afternoon, for the purpose of reorganizing the
Association. Stake Prest. Lucy Heppler pre-
sided. Sister Nancy M. Nebeker, who had
been laboring as President in the Association
for the past six years, and having had to con-
tend with very poor health for three years,
read her resignation, which was accepted, and
she was honorably released, having done a
very noble work, and being very much beloved
by the children.
	Sister Minnie A. Nebeker was put in as
President, with Ellen Oberg and Olena Olsen
as her Counselors.
	Sister Heppler gave instructions to the new
officers and children; thought Sister Nebeker
and her Counselors had done a very noble
work, and had been interested in the welfare of
the Association, and in teaching the children
true principles.			
	Bishop Poulson arose and remarked, that
President Nancy M. Nebeker and Coun. Ruth
Hayward had labored faithfully in the Prim-
ary, and had done a noble work, and would
receive a great reward for their labors.
	The officers were set apart to their different
offices, and the meeting was dismissed. Every
body returned to their homes feeling that they
had spent an agreeable and enjoyable after-
noon.
	On Sept. 22nd a surprise was given by the
new President and the Association to President
Nancy M. Nebeker and Coun. Ruth Hayward,
in honor of their faithful labors in the Primary.
Sister Nebeker was presented with a rug, and
Sister Hayward with a quilt. Other presents
were given to them, the rug and quilt being
made by the children. Picnic was partaken of,
and a nice programme rendered.
	Very respectfully,
		A. N.


He who comes up to his own idea of great-
ness must always have had a very low standard
of it in his mind.—Hazlilt.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO MRS. E. L. SAXON AND MRS.
CLARA B. COLBY.

	Sister Workers, in the cause
	Of God's mighty Truth and laws,
	May His Spirit guide and bless,
	Leading you to sure success.

	And it will, for Truth is strong,
	Right is right, and wrong is wrong;
	Error lifted ne'er so high,
	Must be crushed, must fall and die.

	Temperance, Purity and Love,
	Truth's own children, born above,
	Sent with Unity to earth,
	Hold the power of all true worth.

	And gainst these the world now fights,
	While in evil it delights,
	But Intelligence must win
	Power o'er ignorance and sin.

	Vile Intemperance must be bound,
	Liberty again be crowned,
	Freedom's enemies be slain,
	Truth and Justice rise and reign.

	Temperance Unity and Love;
	Virtue's offspring born above.
	These, the pure are fighting for,
	In the world's great moral war.

	Lo! the pathway must be paved,
	And our favored land be saved,
	Sister Workers, do your best
	GOD and Israel for the rest.

		LULA.

	In behalf of the ladies of the Latter-day Saints, Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, Tuesday, Sept. 25th, 1888.


[Column 1]

THE OLD GARRET.

	In the old-fashioned garret! Methinks, I
hear some one say rubbish! that's all there is
in a garret. Not so fast, gentle reader; allow me
to tell you that in the garret there is inspira-
tion for the muse, and for me there is romance
in the old New England garrets, which haunts
me still, and

		"Oft in the stilly night,
		Ere slumber's chain hath bound me, 
	Fond memory brings the light,
		Of other days around me."

And I find myself among the "old lumber" in
the selfsame garret where I played so much
when a child and I wrote my first poor verses,
at eight years old, and where I was continually
making new discoveries of old lace and rib-
bons for my dolls. There is as much poetry
in it as there is in the parlor, and more. Par-
lors are very prosy, prim affairs, and one is
always afraid of doing the wrong thing in one
of those old-fashioned ones, that are never
opened except on grand occasions; and never,
one might almost say, for children. I remem-
ber parlor chairs, with their straight, upright
backs, and funny, tall legs, used to seem to
stare at me, when a little girl I crept in softly
to take a peep around; and I said then, and I
maintain it still, that I would never shut up the
best room in the house and make it gloomy
and dark, to be used only for company.
	But if there is anything more inspiring than
a musty old garret, it is spring time, groves,
meadows brooks, waterfalls, woods, orchards
and the like, nature's haunts; these are all sug-
gestive and poetical, and especially when the
birds are singing their sweetest notes in the
tree tops, and the boughs nodding and swaying,
keeping a sort of irregular time to the un-
written music of the songsters. Ah, yes, apple-
blossoms, they come with the early spring, and
if I am going to talk of garrets, and old books,
and antiquities generally, and grandmothers,
and old maids, and love letters, I must shut
out the scent of lilacs; the violets and the pink

[Column 2]

and white apple-blossoms, and their dainty,
subtle perfume, or I shall wander off into
dreamland. I must confess that garrets are not
so exquisite or charming as these, but they have
a history, some of them at least.
	I do not know if there are such old houses
standing now, as there were in the country
towns in Massachusetts, thirty-five years ago,
but the pictures of them, outside and in, are
fresh in my mind to-day. I am very much
afraid most of them are remodeled, for this is
a stylish age we are living in; but when I was
a little girl there were many such romantic
places, and each one of them had a garret.
	In one of these, "long, long ago," a little
girl was playing; her dolls were finely arranged
in dainty bits of beautiful things, and she her-
self in such a funny gown (not dresses then,
but gowns), she had found in an old, old
dresser. It was gored in long, narrow strips,
and withal would scarcely fit her little figure,
but it was red and blue changeable silk, bright
and gay, heavy enough to stand alone, and the
short waist, and shorter sleeves, were trimmed
with very yellow lace, just ready to drop to
pieces with age. The child was a quaint one,
and the dress was queerer still—but a spell
seemed upon her, she was always thoughtful,
and at this particular time she was very pen-
sive. I don't mind telling you a few of her
thoughts. She might almost be called vision-
ary, for she seemed to see the future all in a
panorama, spread out before her, very much as
we who have lived long, look back over the
days that are past. She had been rummaging
more than usual, and trying to rake up some-
thing fresh; and she had succeeded, for away in
the furthermost corner of the garret, from un-
der the very eaves of the house, she dragged
out a budget of old papers, tied in bundles. So
sitting upon a broken stool, in her silk and
lace, she began to investigate these old papers.
First of all, she solilquized: "I like old things
that are pretty and have a history, like old
pictures and silks and laces, and beads, and
jewelry, that I hear the big girls talk so much
about. and I dearly love to play here in the
garret, and make believe I am a woman and
all that, but old papers like these are useless.
I can't see what people save them for, unless
they are deeds, or records, or valuables of that
description, and those are always locked up in
desks, and some man carries the key. Yes,
some man, I wonder why women don't? They
have the keys of the parlor and cellar and
pantry, and the big chest of drawers, where
valuable linen is kept, but then I suppose
women have nothing to do with papers, and
documents, and so on."
	But I am afraid I am telling you too much;
I musn't tell you all she thought and felt, but
merely say that she became so fascinated with
the contents of the papers, that she forgot the
curious way in which she was rigged out, and
kept on reading and reading until it began to
grow dim in the strange place, and all the
while through the open window came the
dainty perfume of the apple-blossoms, for it
was springtime then; O so many years ago, I
was about to tell you how many, but I think I
wont, or you might guess how old that little
girl is now, and that would be too bad, you
know, for women, I've heard, seldom like to
have their correct age known. By and by her
sister came to look for her, and made her take
off all her finery, and scolded her too for get-
ting herself so dusty and musty with the old
papers, and told her they were only rubbish
that ought to be burnt, but—(Well, we'll call
her Rosabel) didn't think so, and she went
back day after day, until it was a byword in
the old home, that—Rosabel lived in the gar-
ret. She didn't go there without a purpose,
though, she left off playing with dolls all of a
sudden, and forgot to dress herself up any
more, but she remembered to leave the window

[Column 3]

open to let in the sunshine and the sweet scent
of the lilacs and apple-blossoms, and hour
after hour she would sit so quietly, that the
stillness was almost painful, and yet no one
must disturb her.
	A light had dawned upon her in that out of
the way place, she had found out that women
sometimes put their thoughts upon paper, and
she conceived the idea of making rhymes, or
jingle; that was why she wanted to be so much
alone, and needed the fresh perfume from out-
side; it rested her, and helped clothe her
thoughts. A little at a time the secret leaked
out that Rosabel actually thought she could
write a book. Was this very absurd? Folks
seemed to think so, and her mother, who was
very practical, tried to convince her that little
girls didn't write books all at once, and there
was much good hard work aud study to be
done by way of preparation. That even her
grandmother had studied hard, and had a good
education before she attempted to write those
old love letters, which had so enchanted poor
Rosabel. "You are getting strange notions
into your head," she said to the child, "you
must go away to school and write compositions,
and they must be corrected, and after a long
time it may be that you can write something
readable." Poor Rosabel! how crest fallen!
all her glorious visions of fame were about to
be dispelled, for I will tell you another secret
now, her mother was strong-minded, and wanted
her daughter to be a woman, and not a senti-
mental wishy-washy novel writer. I can't tell
you all Rosabel's life history now, but some
day I am almost certain some little girl or
woman, poking about in a musty old garret will
find  it in manuscript.
		AUNT EM.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	If you want to lift me, you must be above
me.—Emerson.
	It is in length of patience and endurance
and forbearance, that so much of what is good
in mankind and womankind is shown—Arthur
Helps.
	There is a better thing to ask than exemp-
tion or escape from sorrows, even grace to bear
them rightly.—Dr. Maclaren.
	We often excuse our want of philanthropy
by giving the name of fanaticism to the more
ardent zeal of others.—Longfellow.
	You will find the mere resolve not to be use-
less, and the honest desire to help other people,
will, in the quickest and delicatest ways, im-
prove yourself.—Ruskin.
	The true Christian is like the sun, which
pursues its noiseless track and everywhere
leaves the effect of his beams in blessing upon
the world around him.—Luther.
	As men often declare that women are the
"salt of the earth," the quicker some of this
preserving element is used to purify politics the
better.—Geo. R. Scott.
	The government needs woman because she is
different from man, and views things from a
different standpoint, and only by the combined
counsel of the two can the best results be at-
tained.—Mrs. C. A. Dunham.
	Justice requires that women should vote in
"a government of the people, by the people,
and for the people," deriving its just powers
from the "consent of the governed." One-
half of the people cannot justly deprive the
other half of suffrage, and at the same time
tax them. Taxation without representation is
anti-American and unjust—Judge James
Baker.


WOMAN'S	EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
     Published sem-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
     Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
     EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
     Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						    SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
     Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	OCTOBER 1, 1888


VISIT OF MRS. SAXON AND MRS.
			COLBY.
	On the 23rd of September, Mrs. Elizabeth Lisle
Saxon, of Memphis, Tenn., and Mrs. Clara B.
Colby, of Beatrice, Neb., arrived in this city from
the North-West, where they had been for some
weeks traveling and lecturing, and withal, examin-
ing into the subject of woman suffrage in Wash-
ington Ter., and the disfranchisement of the
women citizens by the decision of the Supreme
Court of that Territory, which, as is now well
known, decided that the Territorial Legislature
had not the right to confer suffrage upon women.
In company with Dr. Pratt we met the ladies in
Ogden on the arrival of the Utah Northern, and
accompanied them to the city.  Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young and Mrs. Jane S. Richards met the party
of four at the depot with a carriage, and together
we drove to the residence of Hon. F. S. Richards,
where a delicious lunch was served in the best
style by the genial hostess, Mrs. Emily T. Rich-
ards, to the invited guests.  Mrs. Arthur Brown
was one of the party, and engaged the ladies,
newly arrived, in an animated discussion upon
their favorite topic, woman suffrage.  Hon. F. S. 
Richards was the only gentleman at table, but
bore the honors with becoming grace and dignity,
as is his custom, although it is always more or less
embarrassing to be the only gentleman among so
many ladies, and more especially when a majority
of them are accounted "blue stockings."
	In the afternoon Mrs. Saxon and Mrs. Colby
attended service in the Tabernacle; Elder John
Nicholson was the speaker, and his sermon was
one well calculated to impress the mind of the
stranger with the important truths so forcibly
enunciated.
	The same evening, at eight o'clock, as per pre-
vious announcement, these distinguished public
speakers addressed a good sized audience, in the
Salt Lake Theatre. Mrs. Saxon was the first
speaker, and occupied most of the time. Her
subject, taking it all in all, was social reform,
though one might say temperance, poiltics and
suffrage for women. The lady told much of the
condition and corruption of modern society, and
urged all to come forward and lend their aid in
suppressing vice, in every form, and in whatever
guise. Her appeal was eloquent and touching;
she has an excellent voice and a great command
of language, and expresses her thoughts and 
views clearly and emphatically.
	Mrs. Colby followed her, but in a somewhat
more logical vein; her manner is entirely different
from that of Mrs. Saxon, which makes a most 
pleasing variety, yet the two blend admirably.
Mrs. Saxon has the warm blood of the South in
her veins, which rises to fever heat when dwelling
upon exciting topics, and Mrs. Colby has the cool
and calm manners of the North. She reasons
more and is less emotional. Both are pleasing
[column 2]
in voice and manner, and it would be difficult to
choose which interests most, as they are both
equally earnest, sincere, and in love with their 
profession, besides being eminently qualified to
fill a position upon the public platform.
	Monday morning they were out viewing the
principal points of interest in the city, and ex-
pressed themselves much gratified with the loca-
tion of the city and its surroundings, considering
it, as most strangers do, a very charming valley.
Mrs Saxon had visited Salt Lake in the fall of
1882, and spent several weeks here, and had
cherished (so she stated) many pleasant remem-
brances af Utah, and the people whom she met
while sojourning for a little season among the 
Mormons.
	In the afternoon a reception was tendered the
ladies at the Gardo House, by a committee of
ladies here, in behalf of the women of Zion, and
as an appreciation of the labors and efforts of
these noble workers for the advancement of
women of all lands and climes, and the cause of
temperance, suffrage and social reform, of which
they are such able exponents. Between five and 
six hundred people had been invited, including
His Excellency Governor West, the Hon. Secre-
tary, Judges and U.S. officials, officers at Camp
Douglas and other prominent gentlemen and
ladies, non-Mormon, the authorities of the Church,
the Mayor and City Council, and others, in fact as
many as it was thought possible to introduce during
the three hours allotted to the reception, from two
to five p.m. The affair proved to be pleasant, so
far as one can judge, and certainly there was
nothing wanting on the part of the committee to
make it all that a public reception could be when
hurriedly arranged. It gave the lady visitors an
opportunity to exchange greetings with a larger
number of people than would have otherwise been
possible, and it is hoped that they carried away
some pleasing recollections of their sojourn here,
though it was very brief.
	About half-past five the doors were closed, and
the ladies in whose honor the reception had been
given, with a few invited guests, assembled in the
dining room and partook of refreshments pre-
pared by the committee. It was somewhat in-
formal, yet withal very pleasant; the conversation
was general, and an hour or two was spent in a 
most agreeably social way, chatting of the day,
the people and the impressions made.
	It is, perhaps, out of the usual order to write up
a matter of this kind, and not mention the ladies'
elaborate toilettes, entering into the details of
color, style, and other feminine specialties, but it
must be remembered that this was a reception
given to two very strong-minded representative
women, and, therefore, the writer begs to be ex-
cused for not telling the public who were the most
handsomely dressed ladies, what they wore, and
so on, but we will say that there were a large
number of very interesting elderly ladies, really
matronly, beautiful younger women, and charming
young girls.
	The flowers with which the parlors and ante-
rooms were decorated were a pretty feature of the
gathering, and added, as flowers always do, to the
beauty and grace of the house and its appoint-
ments. There was some music on the piano by
one or more of the young ladies—Misses Dwyer
and Folsom, who excel in the divine art—and a 
song or two by Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley, who
has a rare, sweet voice, and one that touches the
tender emotions of the human soul. Her selec-
tions are always choice and in good taste, and
her style of rendering her music is as winning as
her voice is melodious and sympathetic.
	In the evening at eight o'clock the speakers
were again on the platform in the theatre, with
rather a larger audience before them than on the
evening previous. Mrs. Colby was the first
speaker; she gave an interesting account of the
[column 3]
way in which the ballot had been unjustly wrested
from the women in Washington Territory, and
attributed it on the whole to the whiskey element.
She made some very pertinent and strong points
in favor of the rights and privileges of the women 
in that Territory, that would apply with equal, if
not greater force, to the women of Utah. Her
discourse was full of good, sound arguments from
beginning to end, and no one, it would seem,
could listen to such sentiments set forth, without
feeling that the world of women was awakening to
a higher appreciation of woman's latent powers,
and the possibilities of a more glorious future,
when men and women should stand side by side
with a better comprehension of all the great un-
derlying questions that must be solved, before
the establishment of a "government for the peo-
ple and by the people," Mrs. Saxon's discourse
was of woman in the past, going back to the days
of Scripture, and the days of Rome and Greece,
and giving many incidents in the history of na-
tions and kingdoms, in which women figured
prominently. She dwelt much upon the sacrifices
and heroism of women, and especially of mothers,
and the injustice and ingratitude of men, yet sum-
ming up the whole matter, she threw the great
responsibility of much that is wrong in modern
society upon the women "who have all the rights
they want," and dwell in fine houses and happy
homes, indifferent to the wrongs that cry so loudly
for the help and redress, that might come if all
such women would put forth a helping hand, in
the great moral warfare that has begun, instead of 
sinking down in helpless weakness, content be-
cause their own life has been "cast in pleasant
lines."
	Tuesday morning, at ten o'clock there was a
meeting for women only, in the Assembly Hall,
the subject, "Social Purity," the very topic on
which Mrs. Saxon succeeded in making a sensa-
tion in Washington, during the International
Council. The main body of the building was
pretty well filled though the house would cer-
tainly have been crowded, had there been more
time to circulate the notice. Mrs. Saxon had
several times expressed a wish to hear the hymn,
"O Zion," sung, so the meeting opened with the
hymn, "O ye mountains high," etc, chorus, "O
Zion." A very earnest prayer was offered by
Sister Zina D. H. Young, after which Mrs.
Saxon addressed the ladies on the subjetc an-
nounced for her lecture.
	It would be utterly impossible to give even a
brief synopsis of her remarks here, but may here-
after give some items from it; however it was a 
most fitting theme for the mothers and daughters
gathered there, and was presented in a way that
will be sure to produce earnest thought in the
minds of those, who have not given much attention
to this important subject, and at any rate Mrs.
Saxon described pathetically the vices and crimes
that exist to such an alarming extent in the out-
side world, which must have been new to most of
the young women present. Mrs. Colby spoke
briefly but not with the enthusiasm manifested
in the former speaker. As she is a much younger
woman and with less experience in the evils that
are prevalent in great cities, she could not be ex-
pected to have the same zeal and fervor in pre-
senting the picture, as Mrs. Saxon, who has had
thirty years experience in dealing with this and
other weighty matters, that touch the vital forces
of the hearts of every true mother in the land.
Mrs. Colby is very practical and reasons admira-
bly; she likes to get at the bottom of things, and
weigh and measure them. She spoke to the 
ladies about her paper, the Woman's Tribune,
of which she is the editor and manager, and a very
able and efficient one she is too. During the time
of the International Council and Convention
of the National Woman Suffrage Association last
Spring, she published her paper daily in Washing-
ton, D. C., giving everything pertaining to


that remarkable event and the speeches of the
ladies and papers read in full.
	The Woman's Tribune is the official organ
of the National Woman Suffrage Association and
is reliable authority on all questions connected
with this movement. Mrs. Colby has good 
reason to be proud of her paper, and as it is a
national affair it is of course well supported.
She succeeded in obtaining quite a number of
subcribers in this city and also in Ogden when
she spoke there after leaving Salt Sake.
	A point inadvertently touched upon by Mrs.
Saxon in her discourse aroused the fire of Mor-
monism in the hearts of many Mormon women,
and seemed to call for expression in reply,
therefore when Mrs Colby resumed her seat. Sis-
ter Zina in her dignified motherly way rose and
bore a powerful testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel, and the divinity of the mission of Joseph
Smith.  Her language was eloquent and her emo-
tions were so intensified that she poured forth her
words like a volume.  It was impromptu, but it was
all the more electrifying, and it told upon the audi-
ence in tones not to be mistaken.  Mrs. Saxon
was evidently deeply moved, and requested the
privilege of closing the meeting with prayer.
Mrs. Charlotte Ives Kirby occupied a few mo-
ments, but the spell of Sister Zina's simple and
powerful eloquence was so effective that the in-
fluence could not be easily dispelled.  The Dox-
ology  was sung and Mrs. Saxon offered in
language most sublime and eloquent a fervent and
heartfelt prayer.  In our next issue we will give
the trip to Salt Lake, on Tuesday, afternoon of a 
party of ladies and gentlemen, and the visit to the
Industrial Home on Wednesday morning prior to
the departure of the ladies on Wednesday after-
noon.
	An amusing instance of the power of the im-
agination is related in a New Orleans paper as an
experiment of a Dr. Durand.  The physician
wished to test the practical effect of mind-disease
and gave a hundred patients a dose of sweetened
water.  "Fifteen minutes after, entering apparent-
ly in great excitement, he announced that he had
by mistake given a powerful emetic, and prepara-
tions must be made accordingly.  Eighty out of
the hundred patients became thoroughly ill, and
exhibited the usual result of an emetic: twenty
were unaffected.  The curious part of it is, that,
with very few exceptions, the eighty 'emeticized'
subjects were men, while the strong-minded few,
who were not to be caught with chaff, were
women."—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"LIFE OF JOSEPH SMITH."
	The new work, entitled, the "Life of Joseph
Smith," has just recently been published at the
office of the Juvenile Instructor.  Apostle Geo.
Q. Cannon is the author, and one need hardly say
it is exceptioually well written, when the author's
name is given.  His ability as a journalist, editor
and author, is well established, and the Latter-day
Saints, who so love the memory of Joseph, their
beloved martyr-prophet, and his brother, Hyrum,
the martyr-patriarch, will, we are sure, have great
pleasure and satisfaction in reading and possess-
ing a book containing their history, recorded by
one whose accuracy in all matters of historical
data can be safely relied upon.  We give below
the author's preface and it speaks for itself in
tones not to be mistaken of the genuineness and 
truthfulness of the history.  No writer could have
a more sublime theme than the man (Joseph Smith
the Prophet), and the work established by him in
the dispensation of the fulness of times.
			AUTHOR'S PREFACE.
	"Joseph and Hyrum are now dead; but, like the
first martyr, they yet speak.  Their united voice
is one of testimony, admonition and warning to
the world.


"They lived men of God. They died pure and
holy, sealing their testimony with their blood.
	"No men ever suffered greater persecution than
they; no men were ever less understood by their
generation.
	"It is in the hope that the Saints may find joy in
reading of their beloved Prophet and Patriarch,
and that the world may judge more fairly of these
benefactors of mankind, that this book is writ-
ten.
	"To the Author its preparation has been a lov-
ing duty. In the midst of a somewhat busy and
laborious life, he has found comfort in the con-
templation of this great subject. The closing
chapters, detailing the final sufferings upon earth
of the Prophet of God and his ever-constant
brother, were finished in a prison for adherence
to the principles which they taught, and for this,
the Life is invested with a dearer regard. To
send the work away now is like being torn from
a beloved companion when most the solace of his
friendly presence is needed.
	"In some respects this volume may be imperfect;
the circumstances which surrounded its prepara-
tion were not favorable to the collection and
arrangement of materials. But it is believed to be
truthful and just.
	"To many friends the Author is indebted for
information here embodied; and he takes this oc-
casion to thank them, hoping to live yet to meet
them and express his gratitude in the flesh.
	"That the sublime example and inspired teach-
ings of Joseph, the Prophet of the Last Dispensa-
tion, may be of eternal benefit to all who read this
Life, is the heart-felt wish of
		"THE AUTHOR.
	Utah Penitentiary, Oct. 1, 1888.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	SISTER ZINA D. H. YOUNG, President of the Re-
lief Society, has returned recently from her visit to
the North-west. Sister Zina left the city last
Spring, April 24, and on her trip via. Portland
visited her son Lieut. W. Young remaining there
a few days, then proceeding to Alberta, which she
reached on the 7th of May, after a pleasant and
happy season spent with her beloved daughter,
Zina Y. Card, who, by the by, has a little girl,
born while "Aunt Zina" was there, and named Zina.
and other friends, she bade good-bye for a little
time, and returned home by way of Montana,
reaching this city on the 16th inst. in excellent
health and spirits to renew her labors here in the
important mission to which she has been called
and assigned.
	ON Tuesday, 18th of September, in company
with Sisters M. I. Horne and B. W. Smith we at-
tended the Annual meeting at Sandy, Mrs. W.
Olsen, presiding. The report of the last year and
minutes of the last yearly meeting were read and
showed their affairs to be in good condition. At
noon a sumptuous dinner was served in the So-
cial Hall of which about a hundred people par-
took. At the afternoon meeting the officers of
the stake and ward were presented and sustained.
A good spirit prevailed and much good instruc-
tion was imparted during the day. Several breth-
ren were present and those who spoke gave the
sisters every encouragement possible.
	THE Fair, which will open in this city on the
third of this month (October), will be quite an
 event in the history of Utah, as it gives promise
of being of much importance to those interested
in building up the Territory, and to display its in-
dustries, manufacturies and specimens of its re-
sources also. The building is a substantial one
of handsome brick, and well designed for its
purpose. As the time of the opening of the Fair
draws near, much enthusiasm on the subject is
perceptible. The directors are certainly energetic
and persevering, and are methodically arranging
[ COLUMN 2]
and carrying out the desired purpose. Success
to the Fair and to those who are doing the head
work, and so forth.
	ON the 25th of August, in company with Sisters
P. L. Kimball and E. S. Taylor, we attended the
annual meeting of the Relief Society of Union.
Mrs. E. Richards is the venerable President, and
Mrs. M. A. Smart a most able and efficient Secre-
tary. The annual report and minutes of last
annual meeting were read, and some other busi-
ness transacted. The reports showed the Society
to be in a flourishing condition. Much good in-
struction was given. At noon  there was a dinner
prepared for a number of the guests at the residence
of Coun. M. H. Brady. Another meeting was
held in the afternoon, at which much encourage-
ment was given by Coun. E. S. Taylor and other
visitors, and many testimonies were borne by the
local sisters. The Bishop was present at the
meeting, and addressed the sisters in the after-
noon, instructing them in the performance of their
duties, and encouraging them in the good work of
relieving the poor and comforting the downcast,
etc. Sister Kimball, in her remarks dwelt much
upon the early days, when Joseph the Prophet
was among the people, his teachings to her and
others.
	ON Monday, the 17th of September, Apostle
Geo. Q. Cannon was sent to the Penitentiary,
having voluntarily given himself up, knowing that
an indictment had been found against him for un-
lawful cohabitation, long before, on which account
he had been a long time in exile. This is the
second time an Apostle has been sentenced under
the Edmunds law. The first of the Apostles
to suffer imprisonment was Bro. Lorenzo Snow,
a veteran in the ranks of the Twelve. It seems a
remarkable thing, that in free and enlightened
America, men should be punished as criminals
because of the exercise of their religious convic-
tions; men with whom no fault could be found ex-
cept carrying out a principle given as a command-
ment from the Almighty. Yet such are the facts
before the world. Geo. Q. Cannon in the Con-
gress of the United States, when a Delegate from
Utah, was recognized there by members and
others, ladies and gentlemen of culture and re-
finement, and of the highest social standing, as a
man free from every appearance of evil; exem-
plary in word and deed, and in deportment.
Every person who approached him or associated
with him, felt this, and instinctively knew him to
be an upright, conscientious man. It was the
good fortune of the writer to hear such testimony
from a number of people in the city of Washington,
both from men and women, when they spoke of
the Utah Delegate. Now, instead of a seat in
the house of Congress, he occupies a prison cell,
but his heart is as pure, and his life as blameless
as when he mingled with the nation's statesmen,
and the love of the people will be increased. The
prayers of the Latter-day Saints, and their child-
ren, the Sunday School children of Zion, are
offered daily in his behalf to the God of Israel,
and He will answer them in blessing upon his
head, and his prison life will be cheered, and the
time seem short to him, by reason of the mighty
faith exercised in his behalf. Be of good cheer,
for "the Lord will comfort Zion."


PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE.

"The path of duty is the only path of safety."

	I speak of the past with my heart filled with
emotion and gratitude, that our Heavenly Father
permitted us in this dispensation to be blest with
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith to dwell with us to a
good old age; she who has ever been faithful and
true even to the end, diligent in seeking to establish
the cause of truth, and ever encouraging her sis-
ters to persevere and press forward in the work.


How nobly she bore her trials! knowing He in
whom she trusted, would do all things well. Her
blessed presence in person is now remembered
with the past, but we have her grand example with
us still.
	At the present time we have nine of her books,
and oft we have in words the fragrance of the
silent emotions of her soul when alone commun-
ing with her Maker, and sipping from the fountain
of life, to bless and cheer others while struggling
along, and to lead them on to victory.
	The present day is of eternal worth to us all,
having had the privilege of having time allotted
to us to make our record of obedience, like our
Elder Brother, to the laws of life eternal, that
we may know by contrast a fullness of glory.
	For the future, my dear sisters, I trust our re-
cord may grow brighter, although trembling with
weakness, as experience gives us a knowledge of
the power there is in love and union, and seeking
the best good of all, in attending to our daily
duties.
	And that nothing may hinder our attaining to a
fulness of celestial glory, is the prayer of,
		ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
	President of all the Relief Society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY.

	Salt Lake City, October 1st, 1888. This is the
anniversary of my father, Wm. Huntington, and
family of seven leaving their home in Watertown,
New York, to gather to Kirtland with the Saints.
There are still three of the number remaining in
the Church, living in Utah. Fifty years to-day
since we went into Adam-ondi-Ahman. Also the
same day of the month, in 1855, I moved into the
Lion House.
	Many are the incidents this day brings to mind,
but many more joys than sorrows on this our up-
ward march.
		Z. D. H. Y.


VISIT TO FARMINGTON PRIMARY.

	In company with Sister Ellen C. Clawson, on
Saturday, Sept. 29, I went to Farmington to attend
the Primary Conference and Fair.
	In the morning we passed through the Court
House. It was surprising to see what the ingen-
uity and industry of the children had accom-
plished in the useful and ornamental articles they
had spread there for gratified parents and friends
to look upon. One room was devoted especially
to the offerings to the Deseret Hospital from the
Davis County children; the many cans fiiled
yearly, dried fruit, etc., and a nice cheese, made 
by a little boy, for which please accept thanks on
behalf of the board.
	Sister Aurelia Rogers, the County Prest. of P.
A., must have been highly gratified with her able
assistants and the kindly presence of the Bishop,
Counselors and parents. A good spirit prevailed,
and we had a very enjoyable time.
	 	Z. D. H. Y.


TERRITORIAL CONVENTION.

	A Territorial Convention of the People's Party
s hereby called to convene at the City Hall, Salt
Lake City, on Monday, the 8th day of October,
A. D., 1888, at 12 o'clock m., for the purpose of
nominating a candidate for delegate to the Fifty-
first Congress.
	The number of delegates to compose the Con-
vention had been apportioned to the several coun-
ties as follows, to wit:
	Beaver County, 2; Box Elder, 3; Cache, 6;
Davis, 3; Emery, 1; Garfield, 1; Iron, 2; Juab, 2;
Kane, 2; Millard, 2; Morgan, 1; Piute, 1; Rich 1;
Salt Lake 16; San Juan, 1; Sanpete, 6; Sevier, 2;


Summit, 2; Tooele, 2; Uintah, 1; Utah, 9;
Wasatch, 1; Washington, 2; Weber, 6. Total,
75.
	The County Central Committees are requested
to take immediate steps in their respective coun-
ties for the election of delegates to the Territorial
Convention.
	By order of the People's Territorial Central
Committee.
		ELIAS SMITH, Secretary.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS.

	The Drs. Shipp will commence their next class
in obstetrics on Monday, Oct. 15th, 1888. Ladies
wishing to join the class will please communicate
immediately either with Dr. E. R. Shipp, 16 Main
St., or Dr. M. C. Shipp, 59 S. First East St.


[Column 1]

R. S.,Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

CLIFTON, IDAHO.

	Minutes of Relief Society meeting, held
May 3rd, 1888, for the purpose of reorganizing
our Society. Our worthy Prest., Jane M.
Howell, having resigned on account of her
having removed from the ward for a short
time. The visitors present were Stake Prest.
Elizabeth Fox, of Franklin, Sister Lewis and
Sister Crawshaw, of Oxford; local officers,
Bishop W. F. Garner, Counselors John S.
Bingham and Martin Hendersen, Prest. Jane
M. Howell and Counselors.
	After Prest. Howell had resigned her office,
the Society was reorganized, with D. E. Dudley,
President; S. E. Bingham and Janette Davis,
Counselors; M. A. Garner, Secretary; E. M.
Henderson, Ass't Secretary; Amelia J. Dixon,
Treasurer.
	We had an enjoyable time, and much good
and timely instruction was given by all the
speakers present.
		M. A. GARNER, Secretary.

BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The Relief Society of the Bear Lake Stake
held their Twentieth Semi-annual Conference
at St. Charles, July 7th and 8th, 1888, Prest.
Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Saturday 10 a.m.
Singing, "Come, ye children of the Lord."
Prayer by W. M. Allred. Singing. Roll
called. Minutes of previous conference read
and approved.
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsay made a few opening
remarks. Reported the Societies as being in a
good condition, as far as she knew.
	The presidents of the different branches of
the Society gave in their verbal reports, which
were favorable.
	Coun. E. Collings made a few remarks, in
which she plainly set forth some of the duties
pertaining to the Latter day Saints, and showed
the good results of obedience to God's laws.
	Annie Laker, Stake Prest. of the Primary
Association, referred to some of the duties
resting upon the members of the Relief So-
ciety.
	Closing remarks were made by Mrs. Lewis
and W. M. Allred. Singing, "Love at home."
Benediction by Elder Noall.
	Sunday, 2. p.m.: Singing, "When trials
shall be no more," etc. Prayer by Prest. Geo.
Osmond. Singing, "I know that my Redeemer
lives." Sacrament was then administered.
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsay addressed the con-
gregation a short time. In her remarks she
spoke of the duties that rest upon mothers in
regard to teaching their children the principles
of the Gospel. Desired the sisters to be dili
gent in their labors to assist in building the
Tabernacle; also in storing grain.
	Prest. Geo. Osmond made a few very appro-
priate remarks.

[Column 2]

	Prest. James H. Hart said, "We are all
members of the Church of God, and there is a
labor for every one to perform." Spoke of
the progress the Saints are making, of the
beautiful cities and towns they have built, and
of the work there is still to be done. 
Choir sang an Anthem. Conference ad-
journed until the 2nd Saturday and Sunday in
January. Benediction by Bishop John Hunt.
		LOTTIE PRICE, Cor. Sec.

CLARKSTON AND NEWTON P. A.

	Minutes of a conference of the Primary
Associations of Clarkston and Newton Wards,
held in Newton, August 18th, 1888, Prest.
Bessie Griffin presiding. Singing, "Beautiful
Zion." Prayer by Bishop Hans Funk. Sing-
ing, "Now let us rejoice," etc. Minutes of last
conference read and approved: A song, "The
Old Fashioned Well," was rendered by Emma
Rigby, Mina and Minnie Funk; Bible Recita-
tion, "Christ's Sermon on the Mount," Lucy
Baker; Recitation, "If We Knew" Miss
Bessie Griffin.
	Prest. Bessie Griffin, of Newton, reported
the Primary of that ward. The enrollment
was ninety, average attendance Thirty-five.
	A card on "Good Manners" was recited by
Sadie and Susette Shumway.
	Prest. Caroline Thompson, of Clarkston, re-
ported the Primary of the Clarkston Ward.
	Katie Godfrey and Penny Thompson, of the
Clarkston Ward, gave a song.
	Bishop Funk said he was pleased to meet
with the children; was pleased with the pro-
gramme; encouraged the children to attend
their meetings.
	A Recitation by Maggie Jensen, of Clarks-
ton. Sister Pike, of Logan, said she was
pleased to meet so many of the little children;
would have been pleased to see more boys
present, and gave many good instructions.
	A song by Jessie Rigby. Bro. White, of
Clarkston, made some excellent remarks.
	Sister Crowther, of Logan, said she was
pleased to see the children taking their parts
so well, and made encouraging remarks.
	Adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Solomon Stone.
	Afternoon meeting, 2 p.m.: Called to order
by the Prest. of the Newton Primary. Sing-
ing, "Open the door for the children." Prayer
by Bro. Amos Clarke, Singing. A recitation
was given by Wm. Clarke, of Clarkston; Bible
reading, Matilda Atkinson, of Clarkston; Song,
Susette Shumway of Clarkston.
	Coun. Mary Larsen. of Newton, spoke a few
words. Sister Crowther, of Logan, gave a
recitation, entitled, "Stena;" Song, "Grandpapa's
Spectacles," was given by Janie Gorden, of
Logan.
	Sister Traber, of Providence, said she was
glad to meet with the children; thought we
had a very good Primary; they had about 200
in their Primary. Encouraged the boys to
come to meeting, and take the front seats, and
gave much good counsel. A recitation was
given by Harriet Griffin, of Newton. A card
on the "Knowledge of God" was given by Annie
and Rosie Jooslie and Percie Butters, of
Clarkston; Recitation, Janie Pack; Recitation,
"Annie's Ticket," Stena Hansen.
	Bro. Amos Clarke, of Newton, gave some
good instructions to the children.
	Sister Christensen, of Newton, instructed the
children to be kind and obedient to their par-
ents.
	Sister M. Larsen, of Newton, made a few
remarks; as also Mary Beck.
	Sister Pike, of Logan, spoke of kindness to
the aged. Encouraged the children to attend
the meetings, be kind to their parents and
leader, and the Lord would bless them.
	Bishop H. Funk, of Newton, said he was


[Column 1]
pleased with the day's proceedings; thanked the
sisters for their visit, etc.
	Prest. Bessie Griffin, of Newton, said she
was pleased to see so many sisters from other
wards, and hoped we might have the privilege
to meet often again.
	Singing, "I'll serve the Lord while I am
young."	Benediction by Bro. White of
Clarkston.
			Mary Beck, of Newton, Sec.

			Richmond P. A. 
	Report of the Ninth Annual Meeting of the
Richmond Primary Association, held June 1st,
1888, Prest. Mary Allsop presiding. Meeting
commenced at 10 a.m., by singing, "Gladly
Meeting." Prayer by Georgie Burnham, a
member of the Primary. Singing, "Children's
Song." Minutes of the last annual meeting
read and approved. Yearly report read and
adopted. The officers were presented and sus-
tained for the following year: Mary Allsop,
President; Mary Christensen, Maggie W.
Thompson, Harriet Fisher and Mary Merrill,
Counselors; Harriet E. Lawrence, Secretary;
Jane Hyer, Ass't Secretary; Carlton Burnham,
Treasurer.
	Programme: Music by the Primary Martial
Band; Recitation, Andrew Fieltman; Freddie
and Emma Merrill sang a song; Historical Ad-
dress, Rachel Knapp; Owal and Frank Hen-
dricks, a dialogue; Osmond Stottard, a song,
"Welcoming" Stake Prest. Jane E. Molen.
	Sister Emma Pike, of the Stake Presidency,
congratulated the Primary Band; counseled
the children to be kind and obedient to their
parents and teachers. Recitation, May Webb,
"Our Primary;" Hattie Fisher and Florence
Thompson, a song, "Nay, Speak No Ill;"
	Sister Almira J. Merrill  addressed the
children, and gave good instructions. "Never
be naughty and unkind to your brothers and
sisters; be courteous to all you meet."
	Prest. Jane E. Molen said she was pleased
to meet with us; complimented the leader of
the Primary Band for his faithful labors in
teaching the boys; hoped that the boys would
be faithful and obedient to their leader.
	Coun. C. Hyer spoke a short time; hoped
the children would all keep the word of wis-
dom.
	Singing, "Beautiful Zion." Benediction by
Bro. C. H. Monson.
	Afternoon session, at 2 o'clock p.m.: Sing-
ing, "I am not too young for God to see."
Prayer by Lucy Merrill, a little girl. Singing, 
"Always Cheerful."  Music by the Band.
Dialogue, Freddie Merrill, Carlton Burnham
and Alfred Woodland, entitled, "Give the
Little Boys a Chance;" Tempe Allen sang a
song, "Why should I Murmur."
	Sister Cornish, Prest. of the Coveville Prim-
ary, exhorted the children to pray for the
brethren who are in exile and prison.
	Cloe and Mary Burnham, a song; Recitation,
George O. Webb; Inez Rainey, a song. Bishop
L. Skidmore spoke to the children, giving
them some excellent instruction.    Minnie
Davenport and Clinton Burnham gave recita-
tions?
	Sister S. A. Merrill spoke a short time; told
the children never to go to bed at night without
praying for the Lord to protect them.  Millie
Hendricks and Susie Thomas sang a song.
	Prest. Jane E. Molen said, "We go to Prim-
ary to learn to be useful.  Girls, always be
kind and good to your brothers, and they in
turn will be kind and gentle with you.  Obey
your parents.  Always wish your parents good
night; pray for the sick; the Lord will hear and
answer the children's prayers.  Anna and
Mabel Knapp, a song.
	Sister Hyde said she had had a truly enjoy-
able time to day with the little children. "May
the Lord bless and preserve you."  Mary
Thompson sang a song.

[Column 2]
	C. H. Monson and D. P. Rainey gave the
children some excellent instruction.
	Prest. Mary Allsop thanked the parents for
coming to the meeting; also the sisters that had
come in; hoped to have health and strength to
be able to teach the children the principles of
the Gospel.
	Singing, "Lord, dismiss us," etc. Benedic-
tion by Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore.
	Statistical and financial report:  Number of
officers, 8; members, 202; officers and members,
210; average attendance, 90; number of meet-
ings held, 48.	In treasury:     Cash remaining
from previous year, $3.40; received from mem-
bers, $1.20; received from Primary entertain-
ment, $27.90; donations for Christmas tree,
$13.22; total amount received, $45.72. Dis-
bursements:  Paid for handkerchiefs for the
Band, $1.50; for writing materials, Bible stories
and pencil, $1.25; presented to the leader of
the Primary Band, $5.00; paid balance on
drums, $2.00; for material for Christmas tree,
$17.67; total amount expended, $27.42.   Cash
on hand, $8.30; Property on hand, $10.00.
		HARRIET E. LAWRENCE, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL PARTY.
	On the 12th of September a party of editors
from Dakota, accompanied by a number of
ladies, while on a flying visit to our city, visited,
among other points of interest, the Tabernacle,
and listened with surprise and rapture to the
melody of the grand organ, produced by the
skillful playing of Joseph J. Daynes; after
which they took  the afternoon train for Gar-
field Beach, to enjoy the Lake and its attrac-
tions. A short ride of questioning expectancy, 
and then with eager haste they secured their
dressing rooms, and soon after were in the water,
some advancing with noisy splashing and ven-
turesome dives, while others proceeded with
more cautious efforts; but all fear soon vanished
in the persuasive luxury of the softly lapping
waves.
	A gladsome picture is presented by the
groups of happy faces, the bright and laughing
eyes of the pleasure seekers, as they dip and
float on the bosom of the buoyant lake; peals
of laughter and gleeful cries of delight float
out on the air, until the onlooker above in the
pavilion merrily smiles from very sympathy.
	When at length the delicious pastime has
been sufficiently indulged in, the pavilion
afforded the next attraction, and the graceful
waltzers kept time to the enticing strains of
music from the uniformed band, which accom-
panied the party; others, too, engaged in con-
versation, the "Saints" and their city being
the main topics. Through the courtesy of Mr.
Davis, manager of the excursion party, we re-
ceived introductions to quite a number, and an
animated colloquy followed; curious but cour-
teous were the visitors in regard to the "very
peculiar" religion of the Latter-day Saints.
When "all aboard" was announced, regret
was expressed that time would not permit of
further conversation, and a cordial invitation
was given, and accepted, to meet again in the
evening, when the broken thread of afternoon
converse was taken up and pleasantly spun
around the room. A moonlight drive with
three of the party, was not the least pleasant
feature of the day's diversion.
	Among those whose brief acquaintance we
shall pleasantly remember is, Mrs. Irene
Adams, a literary lady, who desired to see a
copy of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and received
a promise to have some sent to her address;
also Mr. Davis, Prest. of the Dakota Press
Association, Mr. Bliss and wife, Prest. of the
Dakota Board of Agriculture, Mr. and Mrs.
Alonzo Wardell, Mr. and Mrs. Bronsen, and
others, all of editorial repute, while not least
among them was Reverend Mr. Murray, the
"Cow Boy Preacher" of Dakota.


Withal; it is surprising the mistaken and
improbable notions that many people visit us
with. Surely a wide missionary field is open
to give the truth to those who come in our
midst, as well as those in whose midst we go, 
and thereby remove much prejudice, that
many people carry with them after visiting
our beautiful and prosperous city.
					AUNT POLLY.


HISTORICAL PICTURE.

TO MY FRIENDS:
	Some years ago; while reading the autobiog-
raphy of that noble apostle, Parley P. Pratt,
I was deeply impressed with the scene described
in the paragraphs I will hereafter transcribe,
and at different times, amid my many duties
and cares, my spirit has held communion with
itself, holding up to the eyes of my soul the
picture upon that page of his existence.
	Its pathos and grandeur have lingered when
I have striven to put them aside, and have fol-
lowed me when I have turned to other things.
	Often has that spirit picture seemed to lean
across the space and silence of the years that
have intervened since it transpired, and reach-
ing to the present time, seemed to say; "Who
will embody this midnight's story with shape,
that shall stand forth in power, that by its own
eloquence and truth shall live again and eter-
nally in the hearts of our children, and all
who hereafter shall learn the story of Joseph,
the Prophet!"
	An author's words, however glorious in their
power and beauty, often miss reaching the
heart of the general reader, as gems may be
overlooked among commoner stones; but sculp-
ture and pictures have reached the souls of
even those who cannot read. Even the rabble
in great cities know much of history by monu-
ments alone.
	Among the many scenes of Joseph's life,
more wonderful than fiction, this one, in which
he used the majesty and might of his priest-
hood's authority (almost God-like in the hu-
man), stands perhaps without a rival.
	During the past winter I began work upon
this subject, and after an interruption of three
weeks (caused by a broken wrist), resumed and
completed a pencil drawing. This I took to
Mr. Dan Weggeland, and engaged him to re-
produce the same in a painting, from which
large photographs will be taken.
	While working upon it, Mr. Weggeland
said: "It is the finest thing that has ever been
brought before this people." And he has
spared none of his own genius to do justice to
the subject.
	The picture is the prison scene, lighted by a
lantern. The ruffian guards occupy one side;
Joseph, and Parley, who slept beside him, are
the central figures. Among the other impris-
oned Saints will be recognized Hyrum, Amasa,
Sydney Rigdon and his daughter, Mrs. Robin-
son, with her infant, who was permitted to
nurse and care for her father and husband.
	I have endeavored to portray the moment
when Joseph could no longer endure the taunts
of those vile men, and in the kingly majesty of
his priesthood rebuked them. I have sought
carefully to have the picture one of historical
fidelity, and to faithfully represent the spirit
and emotions of the weary and suffering Saints,
also the terror of the Missouri guards, as de-
scribed by Parley: "In one of those tedious
nights we had lain in sleep until the hour of
midnight had passed. I had listened till I
had become so disgusted, shocked, horrified,
and so filled with the spirit of indignant justice
that I could scarcely refrain from rising upon
my feet and rebuking the guards, but had said
nothing to Joseph or anyone else, although I
lay next to him and knew he was awake. On
a sudden he arose to his feet, and spoke in a
voice of thunder, or as the roaring lion, utter-


ing, as near as I can remember, the following
words:
	" 'SILENCE, ye fiends of the infernal pit.
In the name of Jesus Christ I rebuke you and
command you to be still.  I will not live an-
other minute and hear such language.  Cease
such talk, or you or I die THIS INSTANT!'
	"He ceased to speak.  He stood erect in
terrible majesty. Chained, and without a 
weapon; calm, unruffled and dignified as an
angel, he looked upon the quailing guards,
whose weapons were lowered or dropped to the
ground, whose knees smote together, and who,
shrinking into a corner or crouching at his
feet, begged his pardon, remaining quiet until
a change of guards.
	"I have seen the ministers of justice clothed
in magisterial robes and criminals arraigned
before them, while life was suspended upon a
thread, in the Courts of England; I have wit-
nessed a Congress in solemn assembly to give
laws to nations; I have tried to conceive of
kings, of royal courts, of thrones and crowns
and emperors assembled to decide the fate of
kingdoms; but dignity and majesty have I seen
but once, as it stood in chains, at midnight, in a
dungeon in an obscure village of Missouri.—
Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, page 229.
	The title of my picture, for which I have
duly made entry for copyright is:
	JOSEPH REBUKING THE GUARD.
	At Richmond Jail, Ray Co., Missouri.
	Should you honor me with your subscription
and the work hereafter fail to meet your ap-
probation, I will return the amount you ad-
vance to assist me.
	Respectfully,
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	South Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah,
	August 25, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SPLENDID OFFER.

	The Salt Lake Herald is adopting a novel
and praiseworthy method of securing to its
several editions subscribers. Arrangements
have been made to furnish all those who take
either the Daily, Semi-Weekly or Weekly or
Sunday editions of the Herald with a sewing
machine at one-half to one third the usual
prices. To assure the public that no fear may
be entertained of this machine, it has been
tested by W. H. Rowe, Esq., Superintendent
of the Z. C. M. I. shoe factory, with leather,
heavy cloth and fine goods, and has proven
thoroughly satisfactory. Each machine has
been thoroughly tested, and is supplied with
a complete set of attachments. Four styles
are carried. The cheapest, including the
Daily Herald for one year, is $27.50; including
the Semi-Weekly Herald, $20.50; including the
Sunday Herald, $20.00; including the Weekly
Herald, $19.50.
	If $6.50 more be added to each of these
figures, it will show the value of the dearest
machine, including the papers.
	Full particulars can be had on application
for information.
	It also appears that the Herald Company
have arranged for an extensive drawing of
valuable premiums in connection with the
Semi-Weekly during the coming week. Over
1,000 premiums are promised. The Herald is
evidently up to the times.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	
	There are four Siamese ladies studying in
England.
	New York city has ten reformatories for the
rescue and help of fallen women. Fifty years
ago there was not one.

[Column 2]
	Princess Eugene of Sweden has sacrificed
her family jewels to build a  hospital for crip-
ples upon an island off the coast.
	The Empress of Japan is rapidly becoming
one of the best-informed women of her time.
She is a diligent student of German, Russian,
French, and Italian.
	The Directors of the Western Pennysylvania
Medical College in Pittsburg, Pa., have de-
clared against the admission of women as stu-
dents, and refused the applications of six young
women.
	The Association for the Advancement of
Women, better known as the Woman's Con-
gress, will hold its annual meeting November
14, 15 and 16, with preliminary meeting on
the evening of the 13th, at Detroit, Mich.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton has come out
for the Prohibition Party. She says: "In a
critical review of the different party platforms,
I find more promise of social reorganization in
the Prohibition platform than in either of the
others."
	Another woman has passed her examination
and will soon be admitted as a member of the
Suffolk County (Boston) bar. When admitted,
Miss Mary A. Green will be the second Massa-
chusetts woman lawyer, Miss Lelia J. Robin-
son being the first.
	"The Prevention of Prostitution" was the
theme of an able and suggestive paper, pre-
sented by Dr. Rebecca C. Hallowell at the
thirteenth annual meeting of the Alumnae As-
sociation of the Woman's Medical College of
Pennsylvania.
	Cremation of  garbage is to be practiced in
Minneapolis, a furnace for the purpose hav-
ing been authorized by the council. This is
certainly the right way and the only sensible
way to dispose of substances which, uncon-
sumed, pollute the air and water of cities.—Ex.
	An informal reception was given Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton by her Chicago friends, at
the Sherman House, on the afternoon of Sept.
2. Addresses were made by Mrs. Stanton, the
Baroness Gripenberg, who was in the city on
her return from the Pacific Coast, and Judge
Waite.
	Clara Barton has given $1.000 out of her
own pocket to the yellow fever sufferers. As
President of the American Association of the
Red Cross, she has been appealed to by the
Jacksonville Board of health to establish a 
headquarters there, and she has given the
necessary orders to the organization throughout
the country to come to the aid of the stricken
city.
	The Chicago Central W. C. T. U. carries on
two day-nurseries (where an aggregate of over
14,000 children were cared for last year), two
kindergartens, two industrial schools, two medi-
cal dispensaries, a waif's Sabbath School, a
nightly gospel Temperance meeting, a free
lodging house for men, where 60,000 were
lodged during the year, and a lunch-room just
opened.
	The poet Whittier is a sweet-souled Quaker,
but even Quakers decline to be slandered. Re-
garding the recent charge of a Southern news-
paper, that Mr. Whittier was an enemy to the
South, the venerable poet recently wrote a
friend: "I was never an enemy to the South or
the holders of slaves. I inherited from my
Quaker ancestry hatred of slavery, but not of
slave-holders. To every call of suffering or
distress in the South I have promptly responded
to the extent of my ability. I was one of the
very first to recognize the rare gift of the
Carolinian poet, Timrod, and I was the intimate

[Column 3]
friend of the lamented Paul H. Hayne, though
both wrote fiery lyrics against the North. I
am sure no one rejoices more heartily than I
do at the prosperity of the Southern States."—
Ex.

	The highest exercise of charity is charity
toward the uncharitable.—Buckminster.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Harrisville, August 20th, 1888, Nancy be-
loved wife of Daniel B. Rawson. Deceased was born in
Davenson Co, N. C., March 26 1829. Embraced the
Gospel 1858, and gathered with the Saints in Nauvoo 1842,
in connection with her mother, brothers and sisters; her
father being dead she was obliged to work and help her
mother, untli in 1849 they arrived in Salt Lake Valley; the
same Fall she was married to Brother Rawson, with
whom she had 10 children of whom 2 are dead. She was
a kind, honest and affectionate mother, always a friend of
the poor, and always on hand to assist the Relief Society
whatever help was needed.
	Sister Rawson labored many years as Coun. to the Re-
lief Society in the first organiazation in the Harrisville Ward,
 which office she filled with honor; she also obeyed the ce-
lestial law of marriage, and one can truly say her mission
on earth is filled. As our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from us our beloved sister and co-laborer, we, the
members of the Relief Society of West Harrisville Ward,
deeply mourn the loss of onr sister and heartily sympa-
thize with the husband and family in their great bereave-
ment, and ask God our Eternal Father to comfort and
strengthen them aud help us all to be faithful that we may
meet Sister Rawson when our work on earth is done.
		MARY HEGSTED, Prest.
		CHRISTENA HEGSTED, Sec.
	Harrisville, Sept. 27, 1888.


RK. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
In
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In
fant’s Shoes.
12, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS;WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1888.	NO. 10.


[Column 1]
			AN UNSEEN ANGEL.
		    NANCY PATTON M'LEAN.
Soft fell the tender shades of eve, the coming night fore-
	telling; 
Afar and near rose sweet and clear the organ's song up-
	welling;
To other ears a wordless hymn; to mine, attuned to
	sadness.
Each note was full and running o'er with loving praise and
	gladness.
With weary hearts and tired feet I crossed the sacred 
	portal. 
Weary of sin and tired of toil, the common lot of mortal.
Down throunb the aisles the music rolled from out the 
	organ ringing, 
The angel met me at the door, a joyous message bring-
	ing—
"Give thanks, the Lord our God is good, His mercy faileth
	never;
Be glad, O heaven, and sing, O earth, our God is God for-
	ever!"
"I am too tired to sing," I said; "I have no thanks to 
	render.
Life's path is cold and hard to tread, my feet are sore and 
	tender. 
Where friendship's torch should constant burn, it shows 
	but fitful flashes; 
The gold I grasp to rust will turn, the fruit is only ashes. 
They have the less of care to bear whose life is soonest 
ended." 
Sweet with the organ's solemn roll the angel's answer
	blended—
"Envy thou not the quiet dead; nor covet thou their
	sleeping.
Bear bravely thy appointed lot, thy faith and honor keep-
	ing;
And hold this blessed truth in mind, forget its beauty
	never,
Whether Life smiles or darkly frowns, our God is God for-
	ever!"
"I am so sick of sin," I said, "and sin is all surrounding. 
The good I would do, do I not, because of sin abounding. 
I reach toward the higher life, my soul for freedom long-
	ing, 
My feet are struggling in the mire where base desires are
	thronging.
What need is there of sin to be? Why spurn I not its
	proffers?
The very bitterness of death is in the cup it offers." 
Still underneath and far above the organ's solemn pealing 
The angel's tender melody into my heart came stealing- 
"Behold the cross! O tired soul; lay down thy heavy bur-
	den! 
Seek here the strength oft promised as true faith's unfailing
	guerdon."
"I have no faith," I said with tears. Why should I cease 
	from crying? 
Within the clasp of these sad years my darling dead are
	lying.
Why are they gone while I am here? My grief is just and
	holy."
The angel sang still sweet and clear, still lovingly and
	lowly—
"Thy dead are safe in God's own care; O, sad soul, cease 
	thy wailing. 
Earth hath no guardian anywhere so loving, so unfailing.
The Lord is very pitiful unto His children's sorrow; 
This grief is for thine earthly day— what joy the heavenly 
	morrow!
Oh, sing the Father's grace to thee, whose mercy failing
	never,
Gives unto thy beloved sleep- then sinless life forever."
I bowed my head in bitter pain that strove with deep con-
	trition. 
"Father," I cried, and with the word my heart broke in
	submission.
I saw the love, I saw the grace, I saw the tender beauty 
That shineth from the Father's face along the path of duty.
[Column 2]
The angel's voice was hushed awhile and all the people
	singing
Sent up to God a noble hymn with thankful praises ring-
	ing. 
And when the solemn words of prayer rose over heads all
	bended,
The doubts, the fears, the cares, the tears and weariness 
	were ended; 
And all the happy paths of peace within my heart rang 
	ever,
"Give thanks! Our Father is our God, whose mercy fail-
	eth never." 
							    -Hearth and Hall.


[Column 1]

SOME SERIOUS REFLECTIONS.

	I dreamed, a few nights ago, of being led by
circumstances into a room, or office, where I
found myself in the presence of a number of
our aged brethren, some Apostles, and one
brother, who occupied a chair near the centre
of the room and attracted my attention most,
was from the spirit world. Though I did not
know his name, I kept my eyes upon him,
while listening with deep interest to the con-
versation, which was upon common topics, or
 the scenes which most deeply concern the Lat-
ter-day Saints. After a little he spoke as fol-
lows, emphasizing every word so that it im-
pressed itself the stronger upon my memory:
"Why," said he, "we are around here all the
time, and know everything that is transpiring,"
meaning among our own people and the Gen-
tiles, and that there were many more beside
himself, who were similarly engaged.
	This I believe to be verily true. It brought
to my mind the testimony of many who were
present at the dedication of the Manti Temple,
whose eyes were opened, and they bore witness
of many glorious visions, of personages who
 appeared to them with the heavenly music and
singing, which was heard at different times, all
proving that we are not separated from those
who were co-workers with us here, and are still
engaged in the interest of those with whom
they labored for years in establishing the
principles of this Gospel, and planning for the
holy Temples, in which the work is continuing
on for the living and for the dead.
	I am often led to reflect upon these glorious
things, and compare them with the vanities of
the world, the mammon of unrighteousness,
which has such a hold upon the human mind,
that it can take those richer and everlasting
treasures in the hearts of men and women who
have once feasted upon the smne, but through
slothfuluess and a gradual neglect of their
duties, have come to love these pleasures more
than the things gf God. I can realize some-
thing of the solemnity that rested upon the
minds of some of our fathers who bore the
weight of these things for years, before they
were laid to rest under the silent sod of mother
earth. I have felt to bemoan the many sad
mistakes that have been made by brethren and
sisters once so valiant for the truth, which
they professed to have a testimony of, and
have wondered how they could have a face to
deny the "Mormonism, which they had once
known the truth of, and declared to be the
work of God, then deny it, and say that it is
false, and turn to persecuting those who remain
true to their convictions. Apostacy from the
Church of Christ is a thing more terrible and
more to be lamented than, all the calamities,
that have ever befallen the Latter-day Saints.
At different periods within my recollection

[Column 2]

these things have been witnessed, and the mid-
night darkness into which they sank, their
very countenances betraying it to their con-
demnation before their brethren and sisters.
They had lost the light of the true Gospel by
degrees, and were not able to discern between
men chosen by the Almighty, and those in-
spired by the wicked one. The trials of many
has made shipwreck of their faith, it having
been pinned to the actions of men. I cannot
see what the mistakes, or failures of men has
to do with the Gospel revealed from on high
for the eternal salvation of the human family,
nor how any principle, or doctrine connected
therewith can be effected. The Church has
continued to grow and increase in strength and
power, and will still roll farward, and no power
can hinder the accomplishment of the pur-
poses for which it was revealed and established
in this dispensation, no matter how many may
slip or weaken at the sight of danger and
yield to cowardice, or to some other weakness
of poor humanity—beset as we are by the
powers of evil, not being prepared or suffici-
ently fortified to contend against them. It
shows how necessary it is for every individual
to know for themselves whether or not this
work is of God or of man, and not depend up-
on the testimony of another. This has been
taught from the beginning, and the Prophet
Joseph frequently remarked, that his word
was no more than any other man's, except
when he said, "Thus saith the Lord."
	It was in this spirit that he taught the princi-
ple of celestial marriage, and some of his
wives have testified that he admonished them
to go to the Lord and inquire of Him concern-
ing this principle, with the promise that they
 should have his faith; and this was his counsel
to many others to whom he revealed the
principle, and none who obeyed his counsel
failed to receive the promised testimony, be-
sides receiving a great blessing. And it was
this-alone that enabled them to endure their
bitter trials and privations, as well as the scorn
and reproaches of many a one calling them-
selves Latter-day Saints. Had the Prophet
designed evil, or to lead captive the daughters
of Zion, he would hardly have given this kind
 of counsel. Here is some of his earliest teach-
ings from Lecture Sixth in Doctrine and
 Covenants, treating of the "knowledge which
persons must have, that the course of life
which they pursue is according to the will of
God, in order that they may be enabled to
exercise faith in Him unto life and salva-
tion."
	"An actual knowledge to every person, that
the course of life which he pursues is according
to the will of God, is essentially necessary to
enable him to have that confidence in God,
without which no person can obtain eternal
life. It was this that enabled the ancient
 Saints to endure all their afflictions and perse-
cutions, and take joyfully the spoiling of their
goods, knowing (not believing merely), that
they had a more enduring substance. Hebrews
x, 34.
	"A religion," he says, "that does not require
the sacrifice of all things never has power
sufficient to produce the faith necessary unto the
enjoyment of life and salvation, for from the
first existence of man, the faith necessary unto
the enjoyment of life and salvation, never
could be obtained without the sacrifice of all 
earthly things. It was through this sacrifice,
and this only, that God has ordained that men


should enjoy life, and it is through the medium
of sacrifice of all earthly things, that men do 
actually know that they are doing the things
that are well pleasing in the sight of God."
	This is plain and to the point. The sacrifices
which the Saints have made at various times, 
and the adversities which they have had to 
meet, seem so very similar to those endured by
the ancient saints, that this alone should be a 
testimony of this being the true Church. 
Those who have imagined that a smooth, un-
ruffled life is proof of their upright and Godly 
course; have not considered that of the Savior, 
nor of His disciples. But those who are estab-
lished in the faith can easily believe that op-
position, persecution, tribulation and sacrifice 
is the alloted portion of every faithful follower 
of Jesus Christ.
	The persecutions and unlawful proceedings
that are being carried on by men inspired by 
the evil one, we have been led to expect, and
also for a falling away, or apostacy from the 
Church of God. This was among the events 
that were to take place before "the redemption
of Zion," which "must needs come by power;
therefore, I will raise up unto my people a 
man who shall lead them like as Moses led the 
children Israel. 	*	*	And as your
fathers were led at the first, even so shall the 
redemption of Zion be."
	The true Latter-day Saint will be measur-
ably prepared for whatever may transpire.
The great and mighty revolutions, and the dis-
tress of the nations at the present time, are 
things that we have been looking for. 	We 
know that they will continue until the earth is 
cleansed of its wickedness; and it stands us in 
hand to set a double watch over ourselves, 
that we do not grieve and lose the Holy Spirit, 
and drift away into unbelief, but prepare our-
selves for what is laying before us, which are 
days of tribulation, and try to avoid that awful
whirlpool into which so many have been led, 
either by a spirit of doubt and unbelief, or 
because of transgression, and have sank to rise 
no more. Those who bear these things in
 mind, and are watching the signs of the times
will be able to discern between truth and error,
and accept their trials as needful lessons, that 
will add to their store of experience, which in 
a future day will be of the greatest worth.
Besides, it will test the faith of every soul, 
provingwho are the pure in heart, who can
 lay claim to the promise that they shall see 
God and walk in the light of His countenance. 
The promise that the old men should dream
dreams, and the young men should see visions
—meaning women as well—we claim has been 
realized by many, and to a great extent; and 
would that there were more who had on the 
armor of righteousness, and realized the honor
which the Lord has conferred upon them, and 
the conditions upon which they have received
the promise of an eternal exaltation in His 
kingdom, that whatever comes they would be 
found among that number, who will stand firm 
and immovable as the rock of ages to every
principle of the everlasting Gospel, trusting
not in flesh, but in the Almighty, who stands
at the helm, and will honor their integrity aud
bear them off victorious. 
			HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	October 3, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LINCOLN PARK.

	Lincoln Park, in the North-Eastern part
of Chicago, borders on the lake point, and is
very extensive and attractive, as was the man
from  whom it derived its name.
	As in other parks, there are rustic seats,
shaded by large trees, and the ground is every-
where carpeted with beautiful lawns and
flower beds, intermingled with artificial ponds
and channels, for the convenience of boaters.
	But its chief attractions are those of its hot

[Column 2]

﻿house and its extensive exhibition of wild
animals. In the hot house can be found in-
numerable tropical plants and flowers, so
arranged, according to class and form, as to
produce at the same time the most pleasing and
instructive appearance.
	One room of the house is dedicated to the
feathered songsters, of which there is a great
variety, but we will leave the birds and pass on
to the beasts.
	As you enter the Park from the street car, a
beautifully bridged channel is crossed, then im-
mediately to the right is a small pond, in the
 centre of which is a rock island, bearing an in-
scription something like this; "Any person
found throwing any thing into the water, or
at the sea lions, will be promptly arrested."
On the other side is the name of the donor,
and at the time of the printing there were two
sea lions, since when one has had the misfor-
tune to die, and if it is possible for the lower
animals to feel a loss of any kind, the remain-
ing seal surely mourns for its lost companion.
It now seldom creates any disturbance, while in
the past discord seemed to be its chief amuse-
ment.
	A little farther on to the left is a very large
wire cage, and as has already been surmised, is
occupied by birds. The owl sits upon a high
perch, just large enough for himself, with his
eyes wide open, and apparently watching the
 moving forms of human spectators, while the
eagles fly from perch to perch, and though un-
able to attract attention from the owl, their pre-
sence is at least perceptible to the slowly moving
alligators and mud-turtles, as they crawl in and
out of a sluggish little pond beneath. The rabbits
have a separate apartment in the same cage,
and enjoy themselves, as the more intellectual
rabbits should, i. e.: in games that are not dis-
tasteful to the refined rabbit. A little further
on is another large bird cage, containing a
great many varieties of birds and small
animals, such as the blue jay, quails, porcu-
pines, squirrels, etc. How quick the latter as-
cends the tree, but how much quicker they de-
scend if induced to jump for peanuts. Across
the walk from the bird cage is a small box
faced with very fine wire, entombing white, or
 albino rats. They make a very beautiful pic-
ture, with spotless coats and pink eyes. The
young are placed in a small wire nest, and they
lie so closely together, that they very much
resemble a little roll of pure white cotton.
	The ground to the right of the "rats" is the
home of the prairie dog; true to his habits of
uncivilized life, he gathers all the peanuts
offered into his under-ground retreat, and pro-
vides in every way possible for the long, cold
winter, which he seems to realize is inevitable.
Whether they understand the geological
changes of the seasons or not, could only be
learned by conversing with one of their profes
sors, or attending one of the "dog" schools.
	At any rate, they provide for the coming
season, and in all seem so fearless. It is a
characteristic of the prairie dog to be timid,
but here we see them coming to the edge of
 the wire railing, and standing on two legs, hold
out the other two as if professional beggars.
(For the latter there is no place like Chicago.)
 	The other animals will be described at a
later date.		X.


PRICE PRIMARY FAIR.
	
	On the 21st of September a Primary Fair
was held at Price, Emery Co. Doors were 
opened at 10 o'clock. There was an exhibi-
tion, of needle and crochet work, home-made
woolen yarn, carpenter work, marbles, vege-
tables and corn, by children from four to six
years old.
	Meeting was called to order by the Prest.,
Jane Eldredge. Singing. Prayer was offered
by Bro. E. W. McIntire. Singing, after which


there were songs, recitations and dialogues, by
the Price and Spring Glenn Primaries.
	Bros. Hardman and McIntire spoke a few
encouraging words to the children.
	Singing. Benediction by Bro. F. M. Ewell.
						E. E. BRANCH.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	The brave man is an inspiration to the weak,
and compels them to follow him.

	As it is the characteristic of great wits to
say much in few words, so it is of small wits
to talk much and say nothing.—Rochefoucault.

	Obscurity in writing is commonly an argu-
ment of darkness in the mind. The greatest
learning is to be seen in the greatest plainness.
—Bishop Wilkins.

	Although men are accused of not knowing
their own weakness, yet perhaps as few know
their own strength. It is in men as in soils,
where sometimes there is a vein of gold, which
the owner knows not of.—Swift.

	There is no knowledge for which so great a
price is paid as the knowledge of the world;
and no one ever became an adept in it except
at the expense of a hardened and wounded
heart.—Countess of Blessington.


Miss Mary A. Green is the second Massa-
chusetts woman lawyer. She will be a mem-
ber of Suffolk County Bar.


OBITUARIES.
	Mary Ann, the beloved wife of Joshua Jarvis, departed
this life at Bloomington, Sept. 24th, 1888.  She was born 
in Bethlingreen, London, March 10th, 1840; emigrated to
Salt Lake City in 1861; moved to Cottonwood, where she 
resided a short time; from there went to Logan, and in
June, 1865, came to Bear Lake Valley, where she resided 
until her death, proving herself a devoted wife, loving
mother and constant friend.  She was faithful to her 
religion, and filled the offices of Secretary and Second
Counselor in the Relief Society; the latter office she held
at the time of her death. There is not one but will miss
her cheering smile and loving counsel.  Among singers she
was the sweetest, but her melodious voice we shall hear no 
more, until we hear it in the choirs of heaven. 
		Sister, rest your weary body,
			Now  your work on earth is done,
		But your memory will be sacred
			In the heart of every one
		Who has joined you in the duties
			Resting on our little band;
		May we still enjoy your presence
			In the blest and holy land.
									E. C. P.
	It is with feelings of sorrow we record the death of our 
beloved sister, Elsie Lant, who died Aug. 6th, 1888, aged
thirty-eight years, eleven months and fourteen days. 
			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to take from
our midst our beloved sister,
	Resolved, That we, her associates and co-workers in the
Third District of the Payson Relief Society, of which she 
was presiding teacher, do mourn her loss, that we cherish
her memory, for we can truly say she manifested that true 
charity which flows from a sense of duty and hope in God. 
	Resolved, That we sympathize with the bereaved family
and friends of our departed sister, praying that the comfort-
ing influence of our Heavenly Father may rest upon them
and that her children may be inspired to walk in her foot
steps.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions to 
the bereaved family; also that a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT for publication, and that they be placed upon the 
district record. 
								MARTHA SIMONS,
								MARY A. NEBEKER,
								PHEBE HANCOCK.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THOUGHTS OF LIFE AND NATURE. 

	The poet's mind has wandered 
		O'er the path of Mortal life,
	One side seems strewed with roses, 
		The other, thorns and strife.		
	God sent those blooming flowers
		To cheer the weary day,
	But the thorns will often prick us
		As we saunter by the way.

	Life's composed of clouds and sunshine,
		Of the evil ways and good,
	But the story of the future
		Is not easy understood;
	The calm, bright days of summer	
		Pass by us like a dream, 	
	And the icy path of winter
		Soon melts into a stream.

	The flowers by the roadside
		Bloom but once, and die;
	Their green leaves fall and wither—
		Oh, some one tell us why?
	Why does the brightest sunshine
		Become darkened by the night?
	Because we are only mortals,
		And it can't be always bright.

	Why is the smile of mother,
		Often broken with a sigh?
	And in her gloomy chamber 
		Do we often hear her cry?
	Why do her wavy ringlets
		Become so thin and white?
	And the eyes that shone like morning
		Lose their lustre and their light?

	Because it's human nature,
		And the gayest things have changed;
	God's hands have painted nature, 
		And His colors He's arranged,
	Life's path is always threatened
		By some approaching storm,
	And the peal of distant thunder
		Comes to warn us of the harm.

	Why do the apple-blossoms,
		On the branches white and tall,
	Only come to show their beauty,
		Then with the breezes fall? 
	Because Dame Nature calls them
		To the earth's [-]ntidy floor,
	For they've lived their time appointed,
		And their blooming time is o'er.

	Oh! why are we but mortals,
		Just sent to stay awhile,
	Un[-]il Thy heavenly angels
		O'er our whitened brows will smile.
	The gentle summar breezes
		All whisper in a breath,
	That life is always subject
		To weakness and to death.

			From M. A. F.


TO AUNT POLLY.

Dear Aunt Polly:
	Your pleasantly worded letter has roused
me from the partial apathy which has fallen
over "things mental" of late, and I am going
to steal these few minutes, while my dinner 
is boiling to try, at least, to answer you.
	You have alluded in so truthful and vivid
a way to my uneventful life at Laie, whose
chief variation consists in wash-day, and whose
only excitement is mail-day, that I shall simply
say, "It is even so!"
	I sometimes wish that speaking was done in 
something the same way as writing; for when
one is angry, one seldom takes time to write
down the angry thoughts, nor do we often
write out our troubles, or gossip to our friends.
But our tongues go away at a tangent, and 
things are often said for which we feel sorrow:
	Since I have been here, I have but once
or twice broken through a rule I made when
I came, and that was, no matter what occurred
[Column 2]
here of a disagreeable nature, not to put it on
paper for others to read. But I have, indeed,
as you so thoughtfully suggest, been shadowed
by heavy clouds of sorrow, and have pricked 
my feet over many thorny obstacles in my 
path. Well, so we do everywhere; therefore, 
let me be grateful for all I have enjoyed and 
endured. The one is a pleasant remembrance,
the other needed lessons in life.
	At present we are very happily situated.
President King's wife and Sister Nellie Beesley
live over at the Mission House, and take turns
at the kitchen work; our family being the only
other at present in Laui Huli. We three sis-
ters have many cosy times together, and in no
place have I seen a better, more united spirit
than exists here. But for many months we
have had no evening services on Sunday, be-
cause there were so few of us here. I have 
missed them.
	Your kind and sympathetic words have
touched me strangely; perhaps because I have 
grown very tender-hearted here so far away
from home; perhaps because it is so rarely we 
are made conscious that our humble efforts are
realized or noticed by any one. I earnestly
echo your wish for that nearer acquaintance-
ship.
	Now let me give you a little Laie news. You 
will remember the "big room," or general sit-
ting-room at the Mission House? Then, if you 
do, you will at the same time recall its generally
comfortless aspect. No one, I am assured; has 
been to blame for this, as eating in it three
times a day, and the almost constant presence
of the natives, have kept it in a comparatively
untidy condition.
	Of late, I am pleased to report, Sisters King
and Nellie Beesley have taken the matter into 
their own hands, and the result is really a 
genuine surprise, as well as an innovation.
Lace curtains, with heavily fringed velvet lam-
berquins drape the windows, hanging from rich
looking cornices.  A very good striped mat-
ting covers the floor.  The dining-table has
been banished, and in its stead a large center
table, covered with a bright cloth, and strewn
with books, occupies the center of the floor.
The asthmatic organ, the ancient sideboard, and,
indeed, every piece of furniture in the room
has received a generous coat of varnish.  New
pictures, donated in some instances by the
Elders, aid in the wall adornment.  The old
sofa has been stuffed till it looks almost 
apoplectic, then covered with dark, handsome
creton, and cushions added to it; the big chair
has been treated in the same manner, while the
cane rocking chair is gorgeous in two fine
crazy cushions, all of silk and velvet pieces.
The rough deal shelves, which assisted the few
walnut ones in forming our modest library,
have been brightened by embroidered velvet
valances or curtains, and a large, fine office
clock ticks on the wall. The pictures of our
beloved leaders hang in the honored places, 
while Daniel Webster frowns down upon us
from a corner; Anderson's oil painting hangs
above the door, and the pictures of our ex-
presidents, Pack, Cluff and Partridge, and Sis-
ter Partridge, all occupy prominent positions.
Dear "Maggie" Cluff, as the natives love to
call her, still smiles upon us near her husband,
the only thing we have left of her sweet 
womanliness. We have no picture of Sister
Speight, for which we often express our regrets,
as we have a magnificent one of her companion.
Bright colored mats lie under vases and lamps,
pretty tidies add the finishing touches to lounge,
chairs and tables. The whole room has an air
of comfort and elegance, and inspires every one
with a desire to behave one's self at one's very
best.
	All this sounds extravagant, but outside of
the white-washing and painting (new coats of 
which are being added inside and out over the
whole house), the deft and tasty fingers of the
[Column 3]
sisters have done every bit of it all. In point
of dollars, the cost has been small, but as a 
labor of love and good-will the account runs
up large.
	I must add that the dining-table is now set
in the middle room, fitted up for the purpose,
between the dining-room and kitchen.
	Perhaps this letter is long enough to satisfy
you and bother "Aunt Em," so I will say no 
more just now, only that I sincerely send my
"aloha mui" to the Editor and readers of our 
EXPONENT, and beg you, Aunt Polly, to keep
a very generous share for yourself.
						HOMESPUN.	
	N. B. I suspect who you are, notwithstand-
ing your reserve.					H. 
	Laie, Sept. 23, 1888.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	Elizabeth Cady Stanton has come out for the
Prohibition Party.
	The gamblers and criminal classes of Wash-
ington Territory lit bonfires and rang bells and
hurrahed in the streets when the Federal
Judges violated their oaths and refused to
enforce the woman's suffrage law. According
to these Judges one blackleg ruffian has more
power at the polls than all the wives and
mothers.—Ex.
	The Baroness Gripenberg of Finland had a
reception given her, week before last, in Sara-
toga, at tbe house of Mrs. Harriet Whipple
Wallace. Among those present were Mrs.
Lucy Stone of the Boston Woman's Journal,
Miss Anthony, from Rochester; Miss Caroline
A. Huling, editor of Chicago Justitia; Mr.
Albert O. Wilcox, from New York, and many
residents of Saratoga. Several addresses were
made, and the Baroness's account of women's
affairs in Finland was heard with much inter-
est. She is a member of the Board of Educa-
tion of Helsingfors, and was a delegate to the
International Council of women.


"Denis Kearney was "finished" by Sara An-
drews Spencer. At the Chicago Labor Con-
vention of 1880 he interrupted her, roaring:
"My wife told me if I voted for the women she
would greet me with a flatiron! Women don't
want to vote!" Mrs. Spencer answered,
"Thank you much for telling me which is the
head of the Kearney family." That was the
end of Denis. "The daughter of Zion had
laughed him to scorn." He could not get the
convention to hear him, and has not been heard
from since."

	"Your name ain't Tree, is it?" cried Ange-
line's father down the stairs to Angeline's
young man as the clock struck 12.
	"N n-no sir; m-m-my name's R-r-r-r-obert
W-w-wilkins, sir, stammered the young man.
	"Oh, excuse me, Mr. R-r-r-r-obert W-w-wil-
kins sir," retorted the old man courteously.
"I might a known your name wasn't Tree, be-
cause you never seem to leave."
	And then Mr. Robert Wilkin's limbs
sprouted, and the pitter-patter of his feet
down the broad walk told that he was leaving
as fast as he knew how.

	They were discussing the magazines. "That
was a fine portrait of Lester Wallack in Scrib-
ner's, Miss Brown," said he.
	"Indeed, yes. And how interesting the
Century 'Bric-a brac' was last month," said
she.
	"Wasn't it. And how good the last chap-
ters of 'Annie Kilburn' are?" said he.
	"I haven't read them," said she.
	"Aren't you fond of serials?" said he.
	"Not very; I don't mind rice, but I despise
oatmeal. Why do you ask?" said she.
	And he said, "Good evening Miss Brown."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	OCTOBER 15, 1888.


RELIEF SOCIETY CENTRAL BOARD.

	On the 11th of October Sister Zina D. H.
Young was set apart by the Apostles to preside
over all the Relief Societies in the Church, and
Sister Jane S. Richards as her First Counselor,
and Sister Bathsheba W. Smith as her Second
Counselor; Sister Emmaline B. Wells as Corres-
ponding Secretary.
	The Central presiding Board of the Relief
Societies now consists of the followihg officers;
President, Zina D. H. Young; First Counselor,
Jane S. Richards; Second Counselor, Bathsheba
W. Smith; Secretary, Sarah M. Kimball; Assist-
ant Secretary, Romania B. Pratt; Treasurer, M.
Isabella Horne; Corresponding Secretary, Emme-
line B. Wells.


[Column 1]

COMMENTS.

	In the afternoon of Tuesday, Sept. 25th, a
party of ladies and gentlemen accompanied Mrs.
Saxon and Mrs. Colby to Salt Lake. Through
the courtesy of Hon. W. W. Riter, whom we
sincerely thank for the favor, a car was tendered
free for the ladies, and a very pleasant party en-
joyed the luxury of the ride and bath in the
famous Lake, so often compared by travelers to
the Dead Sea. Mrs. Saxon and Mrs. Colby both
seemed, and indeed expressed themselves as
enjoying to the utmost the conversation, the
scenery, the bath and the magnificent sunset over
the Lake, as viewed from the pavilion and the
cars upon the return trip.
	Early next morning Mrs. Emily S. Richards
and the writer, according to previous appoint-
ment, went with Mrs. Saxon and Mrs. Colby to
the Industrial Home.
	Mrs. Campbell, the Matron, received all the
party with the utmost courtesy, and was most kind
n explaining particulars regarding the institution,
its management, and so forth. She is certainly 
well qualified for the position she holds, and seems
quite equal to the grave responsibility. She re-
erred to the desire on the part of the Board of
Directors, to have Congress change the plan
sufficiently to admit other than plural wives, so
that more could be accomplished than under the
present restrictions. And, indeed, it does seem a
small affair for the Congress of the United States
to legislate for, when the inmates are one woman
and nine children. It is exceedingly doubtful if
there is any city or town of the population of
Salt Lake that could not furnish more inmates for
a charitable institution, even under the same pro-
visions, viz.: women tired of the relations they
sustained as the wives of men who had other
wives. No wonder these charitable people who
are so anxious to do good feel that their platform
of work must be upon a broader plan. Think of
the expense of keeping up a house, with furnish

[Column 2]

ings and employees, matron, cook, laundress, etc.
for one woman and nine children, especially when
so many women and children are actually in a
state of suffering for food and raiment so near
home, in all the great cities and towns of the
United States. How absurd all this must appear
to the people, who know the condition of the
women for whose benefit Congress has been so
liberal! And there are those who do know!
Why here in Salt Lake City it is almost impossi-
ble to obtain hired help for domestic service, or
women to wash or iron; there are not enough to
supply the people, and where is the woman who
would not far rather work for her living than
depend upon the charity of others, even if it
were dispensed by Congress?
	And this very woman who is now an occupant
of the Home, was not destitute; the matron in-
formed us that her husband had offered her $20 a
month towards her support. How many thou-
sands of women are there outside of Utah, who
do not receive so much towards the support of
the family? How many women in the world sup-
port themselves, their children and a worthless or
drunken husband? O, it is pitiful to think upon,
and what is Congress doing for these poor unfor-
tunate women, and the little helpless children?
These are the children that need protection! not
the plural wives of the Elders of Israel.
	It does not seem possible that Congressmen
could have been hoodwinked into making such an
appropriation as has been made for this Industrial
Home in Utah, without making themselves suffi-
ciently acquainted with the conditions here to
know if it was, or would be wisely bestowed.
However, so it is, and in the near future a build-
ing suitable for the purposes designed, will be
erected, and industries established under the di-
rection and control of the Utah Commission.
Where the women are coming from to carry on
these various trades and industries in the several
branches and departments of work is not yet ap-
parent; perhaps Mrs. Angie F. Newman knows,
but we who have lived in Utah for forty years,
must confess our ignorance of these poor de-
graded, unfortunate, unhappy, down-trodden
women, who need support from the Government.
We have traveled extensively in and through
these mountain vales, and everywhere we have
found the women of the people contented and
happy in their homes, and with comfortable sur-
roundings, and we fail to see any need for an
asylum such as these Christian women are so 
anxious to provide for the daughters of Zion—dis-
satisfied plural wives.
	As for the young women, who are likely to be
influenced by polygamous surroundings, what a
flimsy pretext to obtain money, when young and
innocent girls go down by the score and hundreds
in the cities of the East and West, and not a
hand scarcely stretched forth to save them from
destruction.
	The Industrial Home will probably be written
up by Mrs. Colby in the Woman's Tribune, and
we shall be glad to see what she will have to say
upon the subject.
	After leaving the Industrial Home the ladies
were taken to the Orphan's Day Nursery and
other parts of the city, and finally to call at the
Devereaux House, where Mrs. Jennings presented
them with a basket of the choicest fruit. Mrs.
Saxon and Mrs. Colby left on the afternoon train
for Ogden, where they were to speak in the even-
ing. At the Utah Central depot they bade the
final good-bye. The visit had assuredly been
pleasant, and we trust a profitable one to them in
more ways than one.
	We give below the amendment agreed upon in
the Congress of the United States, as published
in the Congressional Record of October 10, 1888.
During the arguments in both Houses of Congress,
there were many erroneous ideas advanced, and
seemingly received, notwithstanding all the en-

[Column 3]

lightenment Congress has had of late years on
the Mormon question. The Delegate from Utah,
one would think, stated matters plain enough for
the members and all who heard or read his speech,
but it seems impossible to convince certain people
that the Latter-day Saints take care of their own,
and that plural wives are self-reliant enough and
too independent by far to enter the Home pro-
vided by Government. To do so they must cer-
tainly apostatize from the faith, which has been
and is their constant guide and support. The
amendment annexed changes the management
considerably, and in fact the character of the
establishment in a great measure, but it is doubt-
ful if it will be satisfactory to those who are so
anxious to take care of Mormon women, while so
many are suffering nearer the heart of the na-
tion.

	Amendments numbered 112 and 113: That the
House recede from its disagreement to the amend-
ments of the Senate numbered 112 and 113, and
agree to the same with an amendment as follows:
In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted by
said amendments insert the following:
	"Industrial Home in Utah Territory: The
Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized
and directed to cause all of the unexpended bal-
ance of appropriations made by two acts of Con-
gress, one approved Aug. 6, 1886, to aid in the
establishment of an industrial home in the Terri-
tory of Utah, and to provide employment and
means of support for the dependent women who
renounce polygamy, and the children of such
women of tender age in said Territory, with a
view to the suppression of polygamy therein; and
the other act approved February 1, 1888, to aid
the Industrial Christian Home Association in
Utah in carrying out under its articles of incor-
poration, the work of providing employment and
means of support for the dependent women who
shall have renounced polygamy, and their children
of tender age, now in the hands of Caleb W.
West, or any other person or corporation, to be
immediately paid over or delivered to a properly
qualified disbursing officer of the United States,
to be appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
And said Secretary of the Treasury is further di-
rected to cause a valid title to the lot or lots of
ground in the city of Salt Lake in said Territory,
that were purchased and paid for with money of
the United States appropriated in the acts before
cited, to be immediately vested absolutely and
unconditionally in the United States forever.
When said balances are fully paid over to said
disbursing officer, the Utah Commission shall be
and become the board of management and control
thereof and of all expenditures of said money,
and of such as may be hereinafter appropriated.
and the said board of management and control
shall proceed at once, on plans and specifications
to be made or approved by said board, to erect or
complete on said lot or lots a building adapted or
designed to carry out the purposes of this act,
and which, when entirely completed and finished,
including the approaches and the fencing and
grading of said lot or lots, shall not in cost ex-
ceed the sum of $50,000; and for these purposes
the money appropriated under the two acts of
Congress above recited and unexpended, is here-
by appropriated, and a further sum is hereby ap-
propriated to complete the work above mentioned,
not exceeding the sum of $24,000.
	"There is also hereby appropriated the further
sum of $4,000, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, to suitably furnish said building when
the same shall have been completed.
	"When said building shall have been completed
and furnished, it shall be placed in the custody of
the Industrial Christian Home Association of
Utah Territory, to be used and occupied by it for
the purpose of aiding in the suppression of poly-
amy, and of furnishing an industrial home and


providing employment and means of self-support
for the dependent women who renounce polygamy,
and the children of such women of tender age in
said Territory; and for the purpose of extinguish-
ing polygamy the following classes may also be
received to wit.
	"First. First or legal wives.
	"Second. Women and girls with polygamous
surroundings in danger of being coerced into
polygamy.
	"Third. Girls of polygamous parentage
anxious to escape from polygamous influences.
	"Fourth. Women and girls who have been
proselyted elsewhere and remove into the Terri-
tory in ignorance of the existence there of poly-
gamy.
	"For aiding in the work of said association for
the present fiscal year, including the transporta-
tion of inmates of the institution who desire to
permanently remove from said Territory, $4,000.
	Said Utah Commission shall hereafter act as the
board of control over said association, both in
the erection of said building and in the conduct
of the work of the association hereafter.
	"Said Utah Commission shall audit all expendi-
tures of said association under any appropria-
tions herein or hereafter made, and shall make an
annual report to Congress covering their expendi-
tures and work hereunder, together with that of
said association.
	"Said Industrial Christian Home Association of
Utah Territory for the work herein defined, shall
have the use and occupation of said building and
grounds, free of rent and charge, until such time
as said work shall be accomplished, or Congress
shall otherwise direct, when possession and occu-
pation of the same shall revert to the United 
States."
	And the Senate agree to the same.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

TERRITORIAL FAIR.

	The Fair for the Territory of Utah was held in
the new and handsome brick building, erected for
the purpose of the display, on the Tenth Ward
Square. The Fair was a very creditable showing
of all kinds of produce, cattle, horses, and almost
every kind of exhibit that the Territory affords.
It would be impossible in limited space to give
details of all, but we shall try to mention the
ladies' work.
	In class A we find Mrs. S. K. Stanley received
silver medal for display of crackers; Mrs. S. H.
Burton for 25 lbs. butter, the special premium of
$25; Kate Mc'Allister, exhibit of bread, diploma;
Alice Fletcher, two loaves of bread, $5 00. Class
C. Mrs. P. Jennings, collection of plums,
diploma; Mrs. John Reading, floral designs, silver
medal; Miss A. Balto, disylay of pickles, diploma;
Mrs. M. Clawson, tomato catsup, $1.00 Class M.
Miss Caroline Monson, hand-knit shawl, $10;
socks, $5.00; leggings, $2.00; mittens, $2.00.
	In the exhibit of Fine Arts, Class P, we find
many of the contributors are ladies, as would be,
of course, naturally expected. Miss E. Jennings
(original) water color picture, silver medal;
(original) pencil drawing, silver medal, Miss Need-
ham; crayon drawings, silver medal, Miss Rich-
ards; colored photo, silver medal. Miss Kate
Wells; display hand-painted china, $5.00, Mrs.
J. H. Moyle; collection water color painting, gold
medal, Miss Gorlinski.
	Special premiums, oil painting, by lady under
twenty-one years; (toilet set, $25), Miss Bently;
specimen free-hand drawing, $15, Miss Gorlinski.
	Class S. Ladies' work. Sarah E. Karrick, pic-
tures, needlework and netting, $1.00; Mrs. E
Scrace, artificial flowers, $1.00; Lucy Gray, quilt
by girl under 14 years, diploma; Aunt Betsy
Free, 80 years, 3 pairs mitts, $1.00, pincushion,
$1.00; Edith Smith, pillow shams, $1.00, rick rack
work $1.00, needlework, $1.00; Annie Sheets,
handkerchief, $1.00; Mrs. John Moyle, netted

[Column 2]

curtains, $1.50; Mrs. Ann E. Coombs, fancy hair
work, $1.50; Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hyde, in the 78th
year of her age, and the only work of the kind she
had ever done, knit table cover, $1.00; Mary E.
Jensen, cotton bed-spread, home-made material,
$1.00, knitted curtain, home-made material, $1.50;
Mrs. E. Scrace, embroidered blanket for infant,
$1.00, skirt, $1.00; Mrs. Wm. Grosbeck, hand-
somest fire screen, $2.00, embroidered table scarf,
$2.00; Mrs. M. E. Westcott, Russian embroidery,
$1.00, Spanish embroidery, $2.00; Mrs. F. G.
Young, toilet set, 70 cts., lady's crocheted skirt,
$1.50, lady's fascination, $1.00; Mrs. S. J. Bement,
20 yds. rag carpet, $1.50; Alice Fletcher, door
mat, 50 cts., card basket, 50 cts.; Mrs. P. M.
Staines, handsomest embroidered table cover,
$5.00, handsomest painted scarf, 50 cts.; Mrs. E.
Grenig, patchwork quilt, diploma and $1.00; Mrs.
M. C. Kimball, knitted lace, $1.00, hearth rug, 75
cts.; Mrs. Allen Lvinsd, display of machine work,
diploma; Lena Branting, embroidered cushion, 
$1.00; Mrs. Kapukine, display of fancy work,
diploma; M. F. Costello, fancy work basket, $1.00;
Mrs. Ivins, quilt by lady over 70 years old. $2.00;
Mrs. B. S. Long, display fancy articles, diploma;
Persis L. Young, knit wool shawl, $1.50; Mrs. A.
Cummings, lamp shade, 50 cts.; Mrs. Wm. Carter,
child's afghan, $2.00; Mrs. Ferguson, Kensington
embroidery, $1.00; Mrs. V. P. Eldredge, home-
made boy's suit, $65 Domestic Sewing Machine,
special premium; Mrs. M. M. Howels, wax fruit,
diploma; Grace Taylor, home-made quilt, $10,
special premium; Bertha Parsons, needlework by
girl 15 years old or under, gold medal, special
premium; Mrs. P. M. Staines, mantle lambrequin,
$1.00; Mrs. Jennie Burton, 23 articles of fancy
work, $2.00; Kate Weiler, hand-knit skirt, home-
made material, special premium; M. Thomas,
display needlework, $1.00; Augusta McEwan,
oriental rug, diploma; Mrs. Ardelle Cummings,
home-made dress, $70 White Sewing Machine,
special premium; Emma West, hand-knit leg-
gings, home made material, $2.00, special pre-
mium; Annie Bird, hand-knit mittens, $2.00,
special premium; Rachel Tanner, 3 pair hand-knit
socks, $5.00, special premium, hand-knit shawl,
$10, special premium; Mrs. S. E. Karrick, em-
broidered slippers, $1.00; Alice Fletcher, worsted
hood, $1.00; Miss A. C. Robinson, darned knitted
curtains, $2.00; Mrs. Dr. Benedict, carriage
afghan, $2.00; Mrs. Burns, wool bedspread, home
material, $1.00; Mrs. Kapukine, display straw
goods, diploma; M. Mellen Howells, wax flowers,
$1.00; Mrs. V. Einarson, pictures cut with scis,
sors, diploma; Mrs. Ann Hawkins, patchwork
quilt, by a lady 83 years old, $2 00.


OBSTETRIC SCHOOL.

	The Summer class in midwifery held closing
exercises at Dr. E. R. Shipp's office, No. 16 Main
St., on the 22nd of September, when a number of
the ladies passed most satisfactory examinations,
and received certificates of study signed by Drs.
H. J. Richards and A. S. Bower. The names of 
the successful candidates are as follows: Mrs.
Adela Eardley and Mrs. M. J. Thompson, of 
Salt Lake City, Mrs. Dina Backman, of Hunts-
ville, Weber Co., Mrs. Fannie C. McQueen, of
Preston, Idaho, Mrs. Emma Smith, Cedar City,
Iron Co., and Miss Martha C. Hovey, Millville,
Cache Co.
	In the evening the students and teachers, with
a few chosen friends, enjoyed a feast of music,
social and intelligent converse, delicions ice
cream, cakes, fruits, and all the delicacies of the
season, parting at the close with mingled feelings
of satisfaction and regret, rejoicing over the cul-
mination of their hopes, after so many months of
earnest endeavor to prepare themselves for lives
of usefulness. But as "there is no rose without a
a thorn," neither is there one satisfactory experi-
ence without an accompanying regret. So as


these earnest workers bade adieu to each other—
"It may be for years and it may be forever," in
this life—a feeling of sadness crept in, despite the
melodious strains of "Home, Sweet Home," that
still lingered in our ears. But with the charac-
teristic fortitude of these women, thought reverted
to duty, and each mentally resolved to,

	Know it, love it, act it bravely,
		Wheresoe'er the path may lead;
	Thus obtaining greatest pleasure,
		And at last the riehest meed.

			E. R. S., M. D.


STAKE PRIMARY FAIR.

DEAR EDITOR:
	We felt a desire to state through the columns
of our valuable paper, the great success we had
in our Sevier Stake Primary Fairs this year.
	Last Spring, before paying our annual visit to
the different associations, we decided to hold
fairs and concerts in the several districts of the
Stake, in order that the children might have an
opportunity of visiting their Fair and seeing their
articles, which they had made. So, consequently,
while traveling around, we made our desires
known to presidents and children, which pleased
them very much, and we promised to see all of
them, if circumstances would permit.
	The first Fair was held in Glenwood, on Sept.
13th and 14th, with Richfield 1st and 2nd Ward,
Wallsburg and Vermillion. In the evening they
gave a concert. To name all the articles would
be impossible. The furniture from the boys was
excellent; a secretary table and clothes-horse
would have done credit to larger boys; also the
many articles of plain sewing, fancy work, knit-
ting, and a home-made straw hat, trimmed and
all by a small girl, showed wonderful industry on
the part of the girls—cakes and cooking of all
descriptions. We were treated to an operatta
by the 2nd Ward of Richfield (Grandma's Birth-
day), which we enjoyed very much.
	On the 17th we started for Salina, where, on the
18th, the Associations of Redmond, Aurora and
Salina were represented. Here also, we were
much surprised at the many articles made by
such small boys and girls; also the vegetables and
cooking were excellent, and such delicious fruits
we scarcely thought Sevier County could produce;
but as we were standing looking at a large
cabbage, our hearts were made sad, for we were
told that the little boy who raised it had died.
Tears started to our eyes, and we felt to say, "In
the midet of life we are in death." God bless his
poor mother. The concert in the evening was 
good, but we were somewhat disappointed in not
seeing more Primary children perform.
	From there we went to Elsinore, and on the 20th
the Associations of Monroe, Inverury, Anabella,
Joseph and Elsinore were represented. As we
entered the pleasant meeting house, and saw the
long rows of different kinds of work, both by boys
and girls, a large table to cakes, pies, butter,
honey, etc., we thought surely we were blessed,
and as we turned to the left and saw a handsome
rug, made by the Elsinore Primary Association
and presented to Sister Heppler, our feelings
could not be expressed, and tears of thankfulness
filled our eyes, and we thought how each little
heart beat with fond expectation as they plied the
needle. Oh, how much pleasure there is in trying
to make others happy. In the evening we were
treated to a very fine concert by the children of
the different wards, and an operatta ("Conquered
by Kindness"), from the Elsinore Ward, which
was splendid; also a touching address by a little
girl to Sister Heppler, which moistened many an
eye in the audience, and we felt to say, "God bless
the dear children!"
	From there we started for home: rested a few
days and then commenced our journey over the


hills. We expected to have a Fair in Koosharem,
but on account of measles they could not hold one
there, so we crossed the mountains, arriving at
Loa on the 26th.
	Next morning we were pleased to see Fremont,
East Loa and Loa represented in a very fine Fair.
We noticed, as in the others, some very good
yarn, which was spun by small girls, and four pairs
of stockings knit by a little girl from Fremont
Ward. The boys here had not such a display,
but it being rather a new feature, we presume the
next time they will do better. There was some
very good cooking; also fancy work and vege-
tables. Here they held their exercises in the
afternoon, because of the distance the children
had to come, and they were very good.
	The next morning we started for Thurber,
where, on the 29th, the Teasdale and Thurber
Wards were represented, and for two such small
settlements the Fair was indeed splendid. The
meeting house nicely decorated, and tables well
filled with some very praiseworthy work. Here,
also, they held their exercises in the afternoon,
which were very well done. In the evening we
attended a dance, as we also did at Loa, and
although not dancing much ourselves, yet the
spirit of sociability was marked; it reminded us of
the dances of long ago, when style was not so
much observed. 
	The next day being Sabbath we rested and at-
tended meeting. On Monday we started for home,
arriving on Tuesday night, feeling that we had
never enjoyed ourselves better on any former trip,
being so kindly entertained, both by parents and
children, and having such delightful weather;
both body and mind were refreshed.
	It would be impossible in this article to men-
tion all the beaatiful things we saw; suffice it to
say, our children are improving in this great Prim-
ary work more than we dream of.
	The Young Ladies also had a table from each
ward, and the excellent plain sewing, knitting,
spinning, cooking and fancy work could not have
been surpassed; home made hats, suits of men's
clothes, counterpanes, etc., and a large tippet
made of turkey feathers, was a novelty; it was as
handsome as fur. At Elsinore we saw a young
lady making thread lace.
	Great credit is due the officers of the Primary
and Young Ladies' Associations for the grand
success of the Stake Fairs this year.
		LOUISANNA HEPPLER,
		LUCY BELL,
		ETTA WRIGHT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

Y. L. M. I. A. SANPETE STAKE.
	(Quarterly conference of the Y. L. M. I. A.
held at Fountain Green, Sept. 15th, 1888,
Prest. Christina Willardsen presiding. Sing-
ing, "The youth of his land," etc. Prayer by
Bro. Guyman. Singing. Roll called; Stake
officers present, three, local officers, six.
Minutes of last conference were read and ap-
proved; also semi annual reports from nine As-
sociations, the other four having failed to send
any report.
	Sister Willardsen made opening remarks,
after which the following Associations were
represented, each officer making a few appro-
priate remarks: Mayfield, Prest. Hannah V.
Bunderson and Coun. Adelina Madsen; Foun-
tain Green, Coun. Eliza Bischoff and Mary
Yorgenson; Manti South Ward, Prest. Matilda
Alder.
	Stake Coun. Margaret Kjar spoke of the
necessity of the united efforts of the Y. L.
Said, "The Lord does not require any more at
our hands than we are able to do," etc., etc.
	Sister M. A. Hyde was the next speaker.
Spoke about her timidity when the Relief So-
ciety wys first organized. Encouraged the Y.

[Column 2]

L. to trust in the Lord when arising to speak.
"There is a lack of faith, but persevere and
you will succeed. Rather give brief lectures
than select readings, in your meetings. Keep
yourselves pure as angels." Spoke about
prayer, etc, etc.
	Sister Presendia L. Kimball addressed the
conference. Spoke of the privilege the young
ladies are enjoying. The importance of being
sealed for time and eternity. "Seek to gain a
testimony. Be kind to your mothers. Rathe
choose one of our uncouth boys for a husband
than one who is not of us. Be careful of your
speech; we do not know who are hearing us;
angels may be present." Sister Presendia said,
the Temple work was her chief delight. Al-
luded to the early persecutions in the Church.
	Sister Minerva Snow felt to bless the Y. L.
"Improve your mind and opportunities by
reading good books. The Lord will manifest
to you the things pertaining to the kingdom
Learn to be good housekeepers. "Do not blight
your life thoughtlessly by keeping company
with a young man who swears, smokes and
drinks, for he may not be worthy to go to the
Temple" Asked the blessings of God upon
all.
	Sister Sarah Petersen hoped we would treasure
up what we had heard, for it had been a day
of rejoicing. Spoke about fashion, and en-
couraged the culture of silk.
	Prest. C. Peterson had been edified by the
remarks of the sisters. "The work will fall
on the young people." Spoke of the necessity
of an education. "A wife should be a true
helpmeet to her husband." Dwelt at length
upon the preaching of the Gospel to the dead.
	(Sister Willardsen made closing remarks,
after which Sister Hyde spoke in tongues, Sis-
ter Kimball giving the interpretation.
	Conference adjourned for three months, to
meet at Spring City, Dec. 15. Singing,
"Joseph Smith's First Prayer." Benediction
by Bro. Barnsen:
	A Primary meeting was held at 2 p.m.,
Coun. Hannah Wickmann presiding, in the
absence of Stake Prest. Helena Madsen. Sing-
ing from the Primary Hymn Book. Prayer
by Bro. Anthon Sorensen. Singing.
	A semi-annual report of the Primary Asso-
ciation of Fountain Green was read by the
Secretary, Miss Clara Collard, after which a
very interesting programme of exercises, con-
sisting of songs, dialogues and recitations, was
rendered by the children; also a chapter on
Bible questions and answers, conducted by
Prest. Collard. A copy of the Primary Jour-
nal (Manuscript paper), was read by the Secre-
tary, followed by remarks from Sister Collard,
representative of the Association.
	Sisters Kimball and Snow addressed the
children. Made many enceuraging and
instructive remarks. Sister E. Allred, of
Spring City, also encouraged the children to
attend their meetings, etc., etc.
	Sister Wickmann made closing remarks.
Gave the children the kind regards of Sister
Madsen. Said, in regard to the Y. L., that it
was very desirable that the Associations should
procure blanks, and be more prompt in sending
reports, and correct reports only. Singing.
Benediction.
		HANNAH WICKMANN, Sec.

	MARICOPA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Condensed report of the past few weeks. We
have been having, as you may say, a spiritual
feast, owing to the presence of some of the
leading brethren from Salt Lake—Apostle
John Henry Smith and Bros. Burton, who
arrived here on the 19th of Sept.
	Sept. 15th and 16th was our Young Men's
Conference, 20th, Relief Society Conference,
21st, Primary in the forenoon and Y. L. in the

[Column 3]

afternoon, 22nd and 23rd, Quarterly Conference
of Maricopa Stake, enough to satisfy the most
spiritually minded amongst the Latter-day
Saints, but I have yet to hear the first remark
that evidenced weariness in the least; but all
felt well repaid for the time spent in the rich
spiritual feast provided for them, and the valu-
able instruction that was dealt out so freely to
all classes.
	Our Relief Society Conference was well at-
tended, Prest. Elizabeth G. McDonald presid-
ing: The different branches were well repre-
sented. After the usual exercises of singing
and prayer, the roll of officers was called, who
generally responded. Minutes of June confer-
ence were read and approved.
	Prest. McDonald made brief remarks; said
she had expected some of the visiting brethren,
also Prest. Charles Robson. Business of the
conference, reports, etc, were attended to in
their order.
	The presidents of the different branches
gave their reports, which showed a marked
improvement in the condition of the members,
which was very gratifying. One interesting
feature was the report from the Papage Ward,
which was recently organized, with Sister
Susan Savage, President, formerly First Coun.
to our Stake President—Sister Sarah Russell
now fills her place. It was certainly gratifying
to hear of the success they are meeting with
in that mission. She said they were desirous
of learning, but lacked the means necessary to
teach them, as fast as they were ready to be
taught. Wished the sisters to take an interest
in their poor Lamanite sisters; they desired to
be neat and clean, and dress as their white
sisters do, as far as they were able.
	Coun. Henry Rogers said: "The labors in
the Lamanite mission were great; prejudice
should be removed from our hearts in regard
to them. There is a great field open before the
members of this Stake, both brethren and sis-
ters; funds are needed; the small amount being
raised is not sufficient to meet the demands."
	Bishop Pomeroy felt that the Relief sisters
were a great help to the ward, especially to the
sick. Had listened with pleasure to the report
from the Papage Ward. "If we could just
spare a little more of our means for the sup-
port of this mission; the fifty cents per month
called for from the head of each family is not
much, but if all would pay, it would be con-
siderable; some few pay regular, while by far
the greater part are very careless in regard to
it." Spoke of the spirit of ridicule, which
some indulged in, and its pernicious effects
when carried too far.
	Bro. Allen had visited the Papage Ward,
and understood in a measure the difficulties
they have to encounter who labor there. "Let
us be filled with the spirit of charity towards
each other and be one in all things that the
peace and blessings of God may be with us.
	A Lamanite sister spoke a short time, which
was interpreted by Sister Susan Savage, the
substance of which was, that the white people
had taught them what was good, and it was
joy, to her heart;she felt that they were all her
sisters. She spoke with great vigor and power
and the hearers, could feel the spirit of inspira-
tion, which rested upon her, though not com-
prehending the language.
	The statistical and financial reports were then
read by the Secretary. Also the officers of
the stake, were presented to the conference and
were sustained unanimously.
	President McDonald had been gratified with
the reports given and remarks which had been
made. Hoped the sisters would be generous
and donate to the Lamanite mission, and as-
sist those who were laboring so faithfully in
their midst; said as the brethren had arrived,
she would not take up the time, but would be
pleased to hear from them.
	Apostle J. H. Smith, who came at rather


a late hour, felt considerably oppressed with
the heat, but was glad to meet with the sisters
of this Stake.  He then spoke at considerable
length of the duties and obligations resting
upon the Society; of the influence they might
wield over the youth, and how necessary that
it should be exerted for good. “The strength
and power of women is in the home circle;
they are therefore wisely excluded from public
duties.  their mission is to visit the sick, com-
fort those in trouble, etc.  Mothers, teach your
children self-reliance; there are many tempta-
tions around us in this life, that require instant
decision.  Learn to say yes and no, when
necessary, and do it with promptness and de-
cision.”
	Bro. Burton said their reception had been
so very warm, they failed to get here in time
to hear the reports.  Asked the question,
“Why was this Society organized?” "One
reason is, because the sisters have greater facil-
ties for finding out the wants of a family; her
usefulness is beyond calculation.  Their duties
were to assist the poor and unfortunate in
their midst, not hoard up their means for some
scheme to get a big name, as he had known
some to do."  Compared it to some of the
benevolent societies of the world, who solicit
means to purchase flannel shirts and clothing
to send to some poor benighted heathen in
India or some distant island, while they over-
look those who were starving or suffering right
at their own doors. “Husbands and wives
should be one in their thoughts and feelings.
Who so tender as the loving wife in times of
sickness?  The mothers are the best doctors
for the children; they can look in the very
heart of the disease.” In his experience he
had found the sisters a great help in his
ward.
	Prest. Charles Robson had been much inter-
ested in the good instruction which had been
given, and it was our duty to profit by it. Feft
that the remarks of Bro. Burton did not apply
to the sisters of this place, in regard to the
hoarding up of means, etc.  He was a witness
in a great many instances of the great care
which had been bestowed upon the sick in the
recent sickness which had visited Mesa, which
had been great; many of the sisters had
labored night and day, caring for those who
were in need of help, administering to their
comfort in every possible way.  None were al-
lowed to suffer through neglect, filling their
mission nobly as a Relief Society.  Made some
remarks in regard to the storing up of grain,
the best methods, etc.  Prayed God’s blessing
upon all those who desired the welfare of
Zion.   
	Prest. McDonald thanked the brethren for
the good instruction given; we should each
one strive to put it in practice in our lives.
Wished the mothers generally to attend the
Primary and Y. L. Conferences the following
day.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “How beauteous are their feet.” Bene-
diction by Apostle J. H. Smith.
			SARAH E. POMEROY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SENATOR CALL'S SPEECH.

	October 2nd, 1888, Senator Call, of Florida,
made the following speech upon the appropria-
tion of $80,000 for the Industrial Home in
this city, which is printed as reported in the 
Congressional Record:

	Mr. Call—I voted for this appropriation, not
only as a member of the Committee on Educa-
tion and Labor when it was first considered,
but also as a member of the Committee on Ap-
propriations and of the Senate. I objected 
to and would now object to and vote against
the legislation of this body persecuting these
people because they had certain religious views
[Column 2]
or views on the subject of religion which were
opposed to my own and to those of our people 
generally. I consider that in all that legisla-
tion we not only violated the Constitution, but 
we violated all the principles of civil liberty
upon which our institutions are founded. I 
have never changed that opinion. I think we 
went back eighteen hundred years in the pro-
gress of the world to the days of barbarism, to
use the courts, the civil power of the State, to 
compel by force a change in the opinions of 
men upon the subject of faith or of their reli-
gion.
	The Constitution says we shall take no action
whatever, exercise no power of government re-
specting the establishment of religion, and yet
the language of this bill is plain and direct,
offering inducements to leave the Mormon
Church. We have forgotten even that we 
have no power to legislate upon the subject of
a man's belief on the subject of religion,
whether it be true or untrue, and so in all this
legislation in which we have prepared a preju-
diced jury, in which we have prepared a preju-
diced judge, and selected him for the purpose 
of trying men of different opinions on the 
subject of religion from himself, we have viola-
ted not only the principles of the Constitution,
but we have violated all the institutions upon
which our present civilization is founded, and
we only need to go a few steps further to intro-
duce the power of the state to punish in direct 
terms a man for being a Methodist, or a 
Catholic, or a Presbyterian, or for holding
some different form of faith from that which
that dominant party in the state may profess.
	But, Mr. President, I approve the principle
of the legislation in this appropriation. If 
the Mormons are to be converted, or any other
set of people, it is to be in accordance with 
the divine religion of Christ, by persuasive
methods, and not by the exercise of power.
The legislation of this body has done more to 
perpetuate polygamy and establish it by mak-
ing martyrs of them than any and all other
causes and instrumentalities that could have
been brought together. 
	We live in an age in which the principles of 
Christian tolerance, the teachings of Christ
that the sword is not the power to create
opinion, to produce conviction, but it is argu-
ment, it is the preaching of the divine word, it
is the missionary, and not the power of the 
sword, and the power of the civil law. The
law by which these courts are established and
vested with unusual powers cannot be distin-
guished from the exercise of the power of the 
state in creating the Spanish Inquisition as an
arm of the civil power to compel observance
of a particular faith. The two are precisely
the same, and no argument can distinguish be-
tween the legislation of Congress in respect to 
the Mormons and the exercise of the civil 
power of the state in the shape of the Inquisi-
tion to suppress another religion or faith, either 
by delegating it to an eccleiastical body or 
exercising it directly.
	The constructions of law under which these
people have been tried and punished, if cor-
rectly reported, are a lasting shame and dis-
grace to our country and to the administration
of the law, and to ourselves for permitting it to 
continue. I have seen it stated by persons
said to be reputable in character and truthful,
that men and women have been convicted and
sentenced for unlawful cohabitation upon 
proof alone that they had contributed to the 
support of the families, the women and children 
toward whom they had at some former period
of time sustained the polygamous relation,
and that in other cases women had been sen-
tenced and imprisoned because they thought it
proper to refuse to disclose the name of the 
man towards whom they had sustained these
relations.
	But this legislation providing a home for the
[Column 3]
people who may be convinced that they are 
pursuing a wrong method of life and a criminal 
one, of providing a home for the women and 
children who may be left destitute in conse-
quence of a change of life, met the approval
of my judgment. It was in the line of per-
suasion, in the line of the only successful
policy, of the policy convincing the moral
sentiment which the Almighty has provided as 
the means of reformation for all men every-
where. It cannot be that you can change 
opinion, thought, by power, by oppression, by 
persecution, by the sword; by compelling men
to believe. This is the method of the stake,
the iron boot, the fearful implements of the 
cruelty and crime of the Dark Ages, and 
these we adopted in place of the gentle persua-
sion of the divine Christ.
	Mr. President, if the statements of the Sena-
tor from Main are true, it is the severest
arraignment of this body that could possibly
be made. Can it be that the Senate of the
United States and the House of Representa-
tives have sat here and allowed such a condi-
tion of things to exist as the instances de-
scribed by him represent? Is it true that peo-
ple convinced of the error of their lives and 
subjected to extreme cruelty, have been com-
pelled to remain in that condition for the want 
of even the ordinary necessaries of life? Is it 
true that children of twelve years of age are
 compelled to enter into polygamous and unlaw-
ful marriages, and the Senate and Senators
from Maine and Vermont have quietly re-
mained here providing no legislation but these 
denunciations of the Mormon people? If 
these statements be true, the evidence should
be obtained and prompt legislation provided
by which that evil should not exist a day longer
—the evil of a people honestly desiring to con-
form to the laws and yet unable to do it be-
cause the laws have provided no efficient meth-
ods for their protection and their subsistence.
	I am not ready to believe these statements.
I do not believe that polygamy, however
wrongful it is of necessity and in itself, de-
stroys the natural love and affection which the 
Divine Being has implanted in the human
heart, that charity can not exist where it pre-
vails. We derive our religion from a poly-
gamous people. I have been taught to rever-
ence the Scriptures of the Old and New Testa-
ment as a divine revelation and the characters 
they present as the highest types of humanity.
And while we believe with the confidence of 
knowledge that our Christianity is the true and 
higher civilization and the only true religion,
it is not necessary that we should halt and de-
nounce those who differ from us in faith and 
practice. I do not believe that either amongst 
the Mormons or any other people surrounded 
by the influence of modern civilization such 
cruelties would be permitted. 
	There are two sides to these statements; the 
Mormons deny them, their representative denies 
them in a speech delivered in the House of 
Representatives. Travelers and men of high
standing both in our own and foreign countries
profess to have examined carefully into this 
subject, and describe these people as a mild 
and truthful, industrious and virtuous people,
comparing very favorably in many respects
with the people of other countries, save only 
in the permission for polygamous life and re-
presenting that to be limited in practice. I 
do not know anything as to the truth of these
statements either on one side or the other, but
I am not willing to bear false witness against
any one or to condemn without full and fair
evidence on both sides.
	I have never seen a Mormon except those 
who have been here before the two Houses of 
Congress, and it is only just to say that these
had the appearance and manner of intelligent,
educated and kindly men. I have never known 
but one of their faith, and his family life in


[Column 1]
this community was in all respects like our
own, and his charities aud personal character-
istics such as gave him respectful consideration
and regard of excellent persons of our own
Christian faith who are themselves of unblem-
ished life and reputation. I am not willing,
therefore, that my vote for this appropriation
shall be placed upon the ground that these 
people are destitute of all the moral virtues
and all the kindly sympathies of humanity.
	I do not believe it. I vote for this appropria-
tion because I wish to provide every possible
agency to give full and free influence
to the persuasive power of the divine teachings
of Christ, and furnish the opportunity to all
who wish to leave the polygamous life to do so, 
basing the law to be enforced against the prac-
tice of polygamy amongst them as amongst
other people, in the spirit of fairness and
justice, in  gentleness and in mercy, and not
with the cruelty and violence of either the re-
ligious or the political bigot. I have more
faith in the persuasive power of the gospel of
Christ and the Christian ministry than in all
terms of the law, even when enforced with the 
thumb-screw and the stake, the dagger of St.
Bartholmew's massacre and Coligni's assasin,
or all the thousand cruelties which stain the 
pages of history, and which we are beginning
to repeat.
	Mr. President, we had better enact some
legislation in this direction. We had better
ascertain the facts. I am in favor of an ap-
propriation, however large it may be, to pro-
vide a home and substance and employment
for any of these people who may be convinced
that their methods of life are improper and un-
lawful. Opposed as I am to persecution and
disgraceful persecution, if I had the power I
would remove the judges and the civil officers
who have been guilty of crime themselves, if
the statements I have read be true, of a distor-
tion of the law by the severity of the punish-
ment of these peeple. I read an instance in 
the memorial presented in aid of this very 
bill, of a woman and a child, a woman of 
eighteen years of age, I think, with an infant
of three months, confined in the jail, and that
infant dying of measles, because she would not
reveal the name of the man with whom she 
had been led into this improper relation, suffer-
ing and dying, the memorial states, and there
was no charity, no kindness from the judge or
the marshal or any one towards this poor
young mother confined there like a common 
felon, a disgrace to civilization and a disgrace
to humanity and fo those who have the power
to correct it. 
	But, Mr. President, the question here is
whether the public money shall be placed in
private hands with no responsibility except by
a bond for carrying out these purposes. In
the English law it was found necessary to pro-
vide a system of visitation, even of private
foundations of charity. It was found that the
abuses which followed these institutions in
private hands were so great as to pervert and
defeat the purposes of the founder until a
power of visitation was exercised by the courts
and prescribed by the statutes.
	Why, then, should we depart from that
course and vest the power of disbursement of
this money in the hands of these individuals
without any authority on the part of the
Treasury officials to supervise or direct it? It
seems to me that the answer is clear to those
who sincerely desire the conversion of these
people, who desire to furnish protection to 
those who wish to leave, who recognize the
power of the Christian religion (which the
legislation upon this subject denies) to convert
and persuade those people who believe in
Christ and Christ's religion and not in the per-
secutions which this body and the other House
have established against these people. Those
who believe as I do in Christ's commission,

[Column 2]
"Go ye into all nations and preach the Gos-
pel," and who desire the success of this charity
and to protect these people when the power of
the Christian faith may convert them, as it
will convert them, would have the Government 
retain in its control over the expenditure of
this money.
	If you choose to give this building or the
use of it to this charitable organization, I shall
have no objection, and should support a pro-
vision of that kind, provided they exercise
that charity in the spirit of love and not of de-
nunciation, not of hatred and bitter reproach;
provided they remember that the evil of
which they complain is not now for the first
time known to the civilization of the world, 
that the Christian religion has been fighting it
successfully for eighteen hundred years, not
with the sword and the stake, but with the
teachings of Christ and that the religion
of Christ alone has reclaimed hundreds 
of missions of people from the practice
of the greater part of the world who have 
lived in polygamy and with whom it has been
an institution—England and those who derive
their civilization from her.
	Mr. President, there has been too much of
political persecution in this matter, and too
little of Christian faith and Christian practice.
Let the government appropriate its money, let
it build this house, let it make ample provis-
ion for all who shall be convinced that the
Christian system is the true one, and make it
ample for the industrial education and subsist-
ence of these people for a reasonable time,
that this experiment may be promptly tried,
but let it be done by the government and 
under the supervision of bonded officers of the
government, and then, if we choose, give the
management of this charity to these people 
whose purposes, I have no reason to doubt, are
correct, and those of philanthropy and of good
to mankind; but let it be required to be done
in the spirit and according to the precepts of
the religion of Christ.
	*	As far as I am concerned I have no 
particular objection to the provision passing
in the shape in which the Senator from Maine
desires it; but I wish to state that I did not say
there was no precedent for such an appropria-
tion of money. I say it is not a custom of the
government, I say it is not a good, wise public
policy. It has been done in the District of 
Columbia, which is under the immediate super-
vision of Congress. There is some difference 
between this district and a remote Territory,
which has a Territorial government and an au-
tonomy of its own, even though it be subject
to the supervising authority of Congress. But
be it a precedent or not, except in the case of
an established charity, it is a bad precedent to
appropriate a sum of money and put it in the
hands of private individuals for the construc-
tion of buildings for a charity. The plan
should be prescribed by the government.
	Mr. Salisbury, In whom is the title?
	Mr. Call. The title, I understand, is in this
corporation; but it is proposed to place the title
in the government if so desired. Be that as
it may, it is surely not a wise public policy,
without limitations and conditions, to put a
large sum of money in the hands of any num-
ber of persons or any corporation, however
meritorious they may be.
	The point in this matter is that the advance-
ment of this work, this charity, the rescuing
and protection of these poeple, the continuance
of the charitable purposes of this corporation
in its highest possible efficiency, granting all
that is said for it, has nothing whatever to do
with the disbursement of the money. The
mere hands through which this money 
shall pass are immaterial to the pur-
poses of charity. If the building is con-
structed with proper speed and diligence,
and in a proper style and with proper conven-

[Column 3]
iences, that is what the charity demands. It is
not required that the money shall be disbursed 
by A or B or any one else. The singular part
of it is, that it is so insisted, not for the effi-
ciency of the charity, but for the disbursement
of the money by particular individuals, and
the proposition manifestly has no connection
whatever with the purposes of the charity. I
myself am in favor of the charity, and I have 
no great objection to the provision passing in
this shape.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Michigan women voted by thousands at the
school elections at Michigan last week. Many
were elected to office.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions, of Respect to the memory of Sister Martha
Ann Waite Owens, born at Lincolnshire, England,on the 
2nd of March, 1843; Was baptized when eight years old.
Emigrated to Utah in 1853, Died Aug. 8th, 1888. 
	Whereas, the Lord has been pleased to call Sister 
Martha Ann Waite Owens from our midst, a member of
the Relief Society of Willard and Ass't Secretary of the
same, 	
	Resolved, by the Relief Society of Willard, That we  
hold her name in remembrance, inasmuch as she was a 
faithful Latter-day Saints, a fond wife and mother.
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to her husband 
and family.
	Resolved, That we send a copy of these Resolutions to 
her husband and family; also a copy be sent to the EX-
PONENT for publicatation, and that a copy be put on the 
Relief Society record book.	
					MARX ANN HUBBARD, Prest., 
					BETHIAH WELLS, Sec.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM 
SALT LAKE CITY,
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies 
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’, Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS 
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 900, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1888.	No. 11.


TRIALS AND HAPPINESS.

When all is beautiful, and bright and fair, 
	And tranquil flows the pleasant stream of life;
We may forget its sorrow, toil or care,
	Perchance e'en bitterness, and pain, and strife,
Some precious lessons, trials may have taught;
	We may be purer, wiser and more just,
Some beauty in our souls may have been wrought,
	Through faith in God, obedience and trust.

And tho' we did not clearly understand
	The voice that whispered thrillingly, "be still,"
Yet we are sure, there was a guiding hand,
	That buoy'd us up life's duty to fulfil.
And when our weary feet had found a place,
	Where we might rest upon the great highway;
Then we have gathered courage, strength and grace,
	To bear the burdens of another day.

And thus westruggle on 'gainst adverse powers,
	For earth-life is not perfect, nor complete;
Yet there are hallowed moments, blissful hours,
	Wherein we quaff ambrosial nectar sweet,
Aud stand as 'twere upon enchanted ground,
	Breathing an atmosphere of purity,
While love and beauty everywhere abound,
	And joy, and light, and heavenly charity.

The past with all its dreariness and pains,
	Sinks into insignificance compared to this;
And for the time a brilliant summer reigns,
	That floods the soul with light and happiness;
Then hope sits high within the human heart,
	Waving her banner o'er the buried past,
And we seem strong, to choose "that better part,"
	Knowing in pleasant lines our lot is cast.

Our vision of the infinite—afar
	Is quickened; and we draw so near—
We almost see the gates of life ajar—
	And angel voices chanting praises hear.
And we interpret—in our own, poor way,
	Some of the doubts and mysteries we've seen—
But in the light of an eternal day,
	Then we shall know why all these things have been.
						EMMELINE B. WELLS.


[Column 1]
THE HOME OF CHILDHOOD.
“How dear to this heart are the scenes of my childhood,
When fond recollection presents them to view,
The orchard, the meadow, the deep tangled wildwood,
And every loved spot that my infancy knew.”

	How true are these words of the poet Words-
worth. Many can testify that no place was
ever so dear as the home of childhood. How
eminently proper that the home should be the 
seat of contentment, of affection and true hap-
piness, such as will purify and elevate the
attributes, and through these the after life of
the child, nurtured within its walls. Home
should ever be shadowed by the wings of love.
Peace should be the good angel that stands at
the right hand of the goddess who presides at 
the homestead. No matter how plain nor
how simple its appointments, if order and har-
mony exist, there is a charm like a talisman
that abides forever after, with the  man or
woman, and is like a beacon on the golden hills
that loom up in the distance, and blend with
the azure of the heavens illuminating the hori-
zon, and radiating to the extreme point, causing 
all between to be tinged with the roseate hue
thus reflected from one point to the other.

"Our early days—how often back
We turn on life’s bewildering track
To where, o’er hill and valley plays
The sunlight of our early days."

[Column 2]
	No matter how insignificant the fact may
seem, it is nevertheless a tangible one, that a 
happy disposition, a cheerful temperament, in-
stinctively impress others, without any volition
or will force. Then how essential that home
should be filled with an atmosphere of cheer-
fulness. Not that excess of boisterous mirth
that always lapses into the very opposite on
natural principles, but preserve a degree of
good nature, calm, placid and serene, that will
modify any inequality or incompatibility of
temper, and restrain the over-abundant force
of those inclined to recklessness or disobedience.
There are so many phases of human character
that need guiding and governing in the home, 
that no one, be he sage or philosopher, can
mark out the regular routine of action to be
pursued. The Bible says each after his kind, 
but we all know, who have studied character,
that each individual that comes into the world,
has some distinct originality that distinguishes
him from all others; consequently, we see how
difficult it is to deal justly by all, if we judge 
from our own standard, and must recognize
the propriety of the Savior’s words, “Judge
not, that ye be not judged.” How complicated
and magnificent seems the work of the Creator
in making this diversity, this variety in the
human soul. It is almost beyond our compre
hension. We only know such is the case, but
we know not why, nor how these things are so.
	But lest I grow abstrusely metaphysical, and
get far beyond my depth, I will leave these
mathematical problems and geometrical truths,
and go back to the home of childhood. Ah,
me, if we but had better homes all over the 
world, and fewer places of public amusement
and recreation, it seems to me the generation
to come might be benefited. However, as I 
am neither prince, potentate, no, nor even a 
member of the legislature, or of an assembly
of any kind, I have no power to help establish
laws that would ultimately result in the more
happy conditions of home life; therefore, I can
only use an influence with my pen, for the
awakening of thought on the subject of
homes, and the moral and spiritual effect of
their surroundings and associations. I know
it is a proverb that “home is home, be it ever
so homely;” but it will bear much qualifying.
The spot we call home may be unattractive in
many respects, but there must be something
that hallows it, or we could not cherish it in
our heart of hearts as the dearest place of all.
Youth is beauty in one sense, and pleasures
are enhanced by the very vigor and charm
that hang like a crown of glory over the
heads of the young, and reflects its brightness
on every object. It is the same in every land
and clime, and among all civilized  nations of
the earth; whether we go to Italy or Arabia,
home is home, and the more refined and sensi-
tive the individual, the more delicately and
elaborately are the affections interwoven with
the external objects that are in and around the
home itself. It may be a lilac bush, a rose
tree or a honeysuckle, or all these and more,
but imperceptibly to those around us forever
lingers the memories that can never die, of the
places and attractions of one’s childhood hours.
One of the sweetest of poets (and poets know 
how to read the heart pretty well), writes of 
the home of his childhood.

“I’ve wandered on thro’ many a clime where flowers of
beauty grew,
Where all was blissful to the heart and lovely to the view—

[Column 3]
I’ve seen them in their twilight pride, and in their dress of
morn,
But none appear’d so sweet to me as the spot where I was
born.”

	The heart clings so affectionately to the ob-
jects that have entwined themselves around its
tendrils in early life, that no after attachments
of the same nature ever take so firm a hold.
First impressions are always strongest, they lay
the foundation for all future life, and should
be as perfect as possible.	
	The sort of Bohemian life many well to-do
people live nowadays is injurious in the ex-
treme to children. Living in lodgings, in
hotels, here and there, with no settled home
and no place the child can ever look back to 
as a true home, is a great mistake. It may do 
for those who have no family. If that class 
of people like to be unsettled, and free from
care and responsibility, there is only them-
selves to be considered, but when children are
born to them, the subject becomes serious. By
all means, if parents would raise a family of
good, obedient children, and expect to have
them grow up useful members of society, good
citizens, and an honor to their country and
their God, then let them see to it that the home
of childhood is neat, cheerful, beautiful, and
orderly as possible. Let no contention or
quarreling be countenanced, and the regula-
tions of the home life be such as will conduce
to the well-being of all the inmates. Industry
is one essential principle. Each child should
do some regular work daily, and all be so care-
fully arranged that no one need feel his burden
heavier than it should be. Labor is not de-
grading, but elevating, if it is well done; the
silly idea that domestic occupations are menial
should be discarded, among us as a people cer-
tainly. To be able to do all that is necessary 
in the way of house-keeping, not omitting any
detail, from the cellar to the garret, is almost
indispensable in the education of one who ex-
pects to be a wife and mother. These are the
women whose homes are desirable places of
restfulness. The new-fangled notion of board-
ing is an egregious error, if we would have our 
children grow up under proper influences.
	In these respects Utah is pursuing the proper
methods. I am aware it is said that “in Utah
there are no homes,” but in the face of all that
has been said or written on the subject, I am
bold to assert that the Territory of Utah
abounds in happy homes; homes where
prayer and praise ascend; homes where peace
and content pervade the atmosphere; homes
where all that is purest and best is taught, and
principles of right instilled and engrafted into
the hearts of the little ones so firmly that noth-
ing can ever erase them wholly from the soul. 
Traverse this country over from north to south,
from east to west, and see the happy homes.
Humble and lowly they may be, yet, morning
and evening, the hymn of gratitude and
prayer of thanksgiving to God is offered up.
Listen to the daily teachings; they are such as
will tend to elevate human character, and to
make genuine men and women, true to them-
selves, to their own convictions, to the Consti-
tution of the United States, and the principles
of liberty that are dearer to the heart of an
American than anything else on earth. What 
is life without freedom? It is out of such
homes a race of men and women will grow up
that America will yet be proud to claim. 
	And again we may say the home of one’s
childhood is where the first seeds of good or


evil are sown that eventually bring forth fruit,
sweet or bitter, as the case may be. O how
grandly essential, then, that these homes, these
nurseries of the human soul, should be of that
character that will give healthy tone to the
living elements embodied in the soul, and im-
press them with the genius of nobility, honor,
and true heroism! Our young mothers should
take into consideration everything that will
tend to refine and enoble the generations yet
unborn. Beautify and adorn the home outside
and inside, but first of all get a permanent
home. Ancestral halls are famed in history. 
Why may this generation not plant them? Our
people are the "old settlers." They made
the country what it is, planted the trees and 
embellished the places with shrubbery, vines
 and flowers. They are building Temples, and
structures that will remain for generations to
come. Then why not beautiful homes? Homes 
that the children of to-day can look back upon
with as much love, as great a pride and en-
thusiasm, and as much attachment to, as do 
any of the people in older countries who cherish
the tender sentiment  of "home, sweet home."
	The way in which this city is laid out is a
self evident fact that Brigham Young's idea of
homes for the people was the correct one. Each
lot had sufficient room for a little garden, where
trees, and flowers, and shrubbery might be
cultivated, as well as vegetables for table use.
I well remember how much more homelike the
city looked while the gardens remained. But 
though all may not have gardens, the home
may be made attractive in various other ways.
A few pictures, a little pains taken to make the
furniture, look bright and new, and above
everything else rooms kept neat and tidy.
Plenty of sunshine and fresh air make a house
wholesome and the inmates better natured. 
Let the children enjoy the parlor as well as the
grown people. Never shut the children out
from any place because it is too good for them;
they will be more refined and cultured if they
are taught how to handle things that are valu-
able and pretty, than if they are always de-
nied the pleasure. Childhood's hours pass
quickly enough, and the cares and perplexities
of life bring about many changes in one's feel-
ings and circumstances, therefore it seems wise
and prudent to fortify our children by a gener-
ous supply of good nature, and help them to
cultivate all the higher and holier attributes of
the mind. 
	"Gather the rosebuds while ye may,
		Old time is still a-flying,
	And that same flower that blooms to-day,
		To-morrow shall be dying." 
								AUNT EM.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNUAL MEETING.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place held their
twentieth anniversary on the 6th of Sept., 1888.
The meeting opened with singing and prayer,
after which Prest. Elizabeth J. Stickney made
a few very appropriate remarks. Then the
roll was called, and the minutes of the last
meeting were read and approved. The six
months' report was next read, and then the
minutes of the organization, held Aug. 29th,
1868, were read; also the minutes of the tenth
annual meeting, and those that had their
names enrolled at the first meeting were read,
and those that were present answered to the
same, showing that there were sixteen present
that had attended our meeting twenty years
ago.  A twenty years’ report was then, read,
showing how much had been received and how
much disbursed during that time, and the use
made of the same; also stating how much is on
hand at present. The report showed, also,
how many quilts had been made by the Society,
and the use made of them.


Sister Seren E. Hudson read a piece of
poetry composed by herself for the occasion,
which was very good.
	The meeting was addressed by Sisters Emily
G. Cluff, Marilla Daniels and M. A. Till, all of
Provo, their rəmarks being very instructive
and encouraging; they also spoke in praise of
the reports that had been read.
	A song was sung by Sister Julia Silverwood,
of Salt Lake City, with an accompaniment on
the organ by Miss Mary K. Boyle.
	Short and appropriate addresses were de-
livered by Bishop George Halliday, Bro. Eli
Openshaw and Sister Elizabeth Wall. Then a
vote of appreciation was given to all those that
had taken parts in the Society, to show that
their labors are appreciated, after which Bros.
Lars A. Johnson and J. C. Stickney each
addressed the meeting for a short time.
	The meeting, a very memorable one, was
then brought to a close with singing and bene-
diction by Bro. L. Openshaw.
	The tables were then spread with the good
things of the earth, and a bounteous picnic
was partaken of, and a very sociable and en-
joyable time was spent, until sunset, then all
retired, seemingly well pleased with the after-
noon’s enjoyment.
			ANN J. STICKNEY, Secretary.
	Santaquin, Utah Co., Sept., 1888.


BUSINESS CAPACITY OF WOMEN.

	In a pamphlet recently issued by the cachier
of the Fifth-Avenue Bank in New York City,
occures the folliwng, which contains food for 
thought for heads of households:
	"Many husbands and fathers give their
wives and daughters a sum of money each
month with which to run the  house, or for pin
money.  By depositing savings from this in 
the bank, paying it out by checks, and know-
ing what they have spent and what they have 
ahead, they learn how fast little sums added
together make great sums, and how small
economies accumulate into great economies.  It
gives women business habits and helps fit them 
to take care of property, if at any time it 
should come into their porsession, and best of
all for married women, it relieves them from
the necessity of so frequently asking their
husbands for money.  It also saves the hus-
band much care and annoyance in the midst 
of his busy and anxious life; for the presenta-
tion of small house bills is often a confusion
and an irritation.		*		*	With
far less techniaal training than a man requires,
a woman becomes the keenest and most accu-
rate of business managers, excelling particu-
larly in those departments which make the 
severest demands upon an intutive judgment.
All over Great Britain the largest and best
hotels are to-day managed by women; in Berlin,
Dresden, Leipsic, Madgeburg, Zurich, and in
many other great cities of the continent—
especially in Paris—great ‘Magasins' and
shops can be found admirably directed by
women in all details; and in New York City
the banker and the capitalist will tell you of 
sound and conservative judges of business
questions and enterprises among women of re-
fiuement, social standing and domestic tastes.


REV. EDWARD P. ROE.

	In the death of Edward P. Roe, many
readers of fiction have lost their favorite author. 
Mr. Roe may not have been among our great-
est novelists, but he was one of the most suc-
cessful.  He was born at Windsor, New York,
in 1838, educated at Williams College with
the view of entering the ministry, and after a 
year at Auburn Theological Seminary became
chaplain of the Second New York Cavalry.


In 1864 he was appointed one of the chaplains
of Fortress Monroe hospitals.  After the war
Mr. Roe accepted a call from the Presbyterian
Church at Highland Falls, New York, and it
was there he gathered the materials for"Nature's
Serial Story."  In 1874 he removed to Corn-
wall on-Hudson, and in this beautiful retreat, 
surrounded by fruits and flowers, which he 
cultivated for the sake of his health, most of
his books were written.	
	In the preface of his novel,  "Without a
Home," he tells how he came to be an author.
The burning of Chicago made a powerful im-
pression on him, and after spending several
days among the ruins and studying the striking
features of the catastrophe, he wrote his first
novel, "Barriers Burned Away,"  a work
which had a large sale, and which quickly
gave him a reputation as a writer. He has 
since devoted himself to authorship, and the
sixteen works, mostly novels, which he has
produced, have had an aggregate sale of about
750,000 copies.  "Of Barriers Burned Away"
69,000 copies have been sold; of "Opening a
Chestnut Burr," 68,000; "Without a Home,"
60,000; "From Jest to Earnest," 60,000; "Near 
to Nature's Heart," 53,000; "A Knight of the 
XIX Century," 53,000; "A Day of Fate,"
50,000, and the sales of other works from his 
pen range from 25,000 to 45,000.  Mr. Roe's
latest novel, "miss Lou," is in the printers'
hands.  The figures here given justify the
statement that Mr. Roe's Works have a larger 
number of readers than those of any living
American novelist. 
	The tone of Mr. Roe's works is worthy of
his calling, as all of them are characterized by
a moral purpose.—Selected.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Keep your hope in bad times. We have
the same sun and sky and stars, the same duties
and the same Helper. Hope then in God.—
Dr. Goodell.	
	Sorrows may take from life its delights; but,
thank God! they can never take its duties. At
the lowest ebb of dejection we will still have
much to do.—F. D. Maurice.
	Kind words produce their own image in
men’s souls, and a beautiful image it is. They 
soothe and quiet and comfort the hearer. They
shame him out of his sour, morose, unkind
feelings. We have not yet begun to use kind 
words in such abundance as they ought to used.
—Pascal.
	Thought engenders thought. Place one
idea on paper, another will follow it, and still
another, until you have written a page. You
cannot fathom your mind. There is a well of
thought there which has no bottom. The more
you draw from it, the more clear and fruitful
will it be. If you neglect to think for your-
self and use other people’s thoughts, giving 
them utterance only, you will never know what
you are capable of. At first your ideas may
come out in lumps, homely and shapeless; but
no matter; time and perseverance will arrange
and polish them. Learn to think and you
will learn to write; the more you think, the 
better you will express your ideas.


For the third time in its history, a woman
has been admitted to practice before the
United States Supreme Court—Mrs. Ada M.
Bittenbender, of Lincoln, Neb., the Superin-
tendent of Legislation of the National
Women’s Christian Temperance Union. She
is in partnership with her husband in the prac-
tice of law in Lincoln. The two ladies who
have been previously admitted are Mrs. Belva
A. Lockwood, and Mrs. Laura De Force Gor-
don, of California.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOT A DROP FOR ME.

No, thank you, boys, not a drop for me now,
Though you say a little wont harm;
I've tried that same thing, and know how
Little it takes to break the charm.
One drink braves another with me,
And when I've had two I want more;
Then I'll tip my glass and drink No. three,
And get drunk and crazy on No. four.
Drunk and crazy. Do you see that boy
Just passing around the corner there?
He, a few months ago, was a mother’s joy,
With a happy smile on his face so fair,
With a bounding step and a cheerful voice,
A mind that promised the world much good,
To do right or wrong he had his choice,
And he chose the latter, as most of us would.
And now he’s so low in humanity’s scale,
With his bloated form and darkened brow,
That he gives no heed to a mother’s wail,
That would win him to virtue even now.

I don't give advice, “I’ve been there myself,”
And it don’t take well every time;
A fellow, that’s drinking lays advice on the shelf
Till he spends his very last dime.

Example’s the thing to bring a man back,
And ragged and hungry children and wife;
Just think if there’s nothing at home you lack,
Ere you pawn for a drink your pocket knife.

Yes, your pocket knife, for a man will sell
The coat from his back for the poison drink,
To steep his mind with this essence of hell;
Of manhood’s chain he’ll break the last link.
I know that the grass on the drunkard’s grave
Grows as green as where the Christian rests;
But a great hereafter the soul must brave,
And the drunkard then will fail to be blest.

’Tis whiskey that fills our prisons all,
’Tis whiskey that tightens the hangman’s rope;
’Tis whiskey that turns life’s sweets to gall,
’Tis whiskey kills joy, kills life, kills hope.
“Taste not, touch not, handle not,”
With God’s help this my motto shall be;
Though in trouble I live, and in poverty rot,
From the curse of intemperance I’m free.

And now when my long day’s work is o’er,
And I hasten home to wife and child,
Mattie sits waiting me at the door,
With a smiling face, once haggard and wild.
And I cast my eyes to the sky above
And thank the Father who gave me life;
For blessings on me and mind, and the love
That has banished from me this curse, this strife.
	MRS. M.A.M. SALTER.
Sylacauga, Talladega Co., Ala.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
      'Tis a great satisfaction to me to read of the 
great amount of good our many sisters are 
doing, and while perusing their letters in our 
very valuable paper, the idea presented itself
to my mind that perhaps if we were heard
from occasionally it might possibly create some
gratification for others, such as those who in 
times gone by worked with all their hearts
with  us for the promotion of our cause,
especially those dear sisters who have been 
driven, as it were, into other territories to avoid,
if it could be, those who would harass and 
persecute us.
     We are a plain, matter of fact little band, 
desirous of keeping pace with any of the
organizations in doing good, teaching and liv-
ing in accordance with the simple doctrine of
Christ, our Lord and Master; and with all that 
we are passing through at the present time, we
know that there is grand cause for us to "re-
joice and be exceeding glad." 
      For the benefit of many of our workers
who are separated from us for a season, we


just want to tell what the Relief Society sisters
did on the Twenty-fourth of July. Of course
there was the usual celebration in the morning,
then at 1 o'clock p.m., all those over sixty years
of age, all the widows and those whose hus-
bands were in exile repaired to the large
school house, where a most sumptuous repast
was spread with excellent taste and the very 
best of order, and indulged to their own satis-
faction in partaking of the substantials and
dainties that had been prepared for them, and
I assure you it was a very pleasing picture to 
behold, and we would have been well pleased
to have had the presence of some whom we 
know will read this with many fond remem-
brances.
	After dinner the committee cleared every-
thing away in such a quiet, orderly way, it was 
surprising. Then we sang, recited, etc., and
danced until we all had enjoyed ourselves so
long that we were quite ready to go home.
	We could tell you much more, but not wish-
ing to impose upon your time or patience the
first time, we will just say, "God bless the Re-
lief Society and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT."
			SARAH E. WHITNEY, Sec.
	Parowan, Iron Co., Aug. 5, 1888.


EIGHTEENTH CENTURY LITERA-
				TURE:
	To facilitate the study of eighteenth-century
literature, it is convenient to divide the one
hundred and twenty years which succeeded the
Restoration into three equal parts. Each of 
these is dominated by one figure of far greater
intellectual prestige than any other of the
same period. No one will question that the 
first of these is the generation of Dryden nor
the last that of Johnson. It may not perhaps
be quite so readily conceded that the age of
Anne lay under the tyranny of Swift. It will,
however, be found, I think, upon close examina-
tion that neither Pope nor Addison has an
equal claim to be considered the centre of the
action or the hero of the story. They wrote
with consummate skill, but Swift it was who
laid the torch to the standing-corn of thought;
his was the irradiating, the Promethean mind
from 1700 to 1740, and his the force of
character, the thrill of personal genius, that
rivets to itself the main attention of students
throughout that brilliant period.
	The age of Dryden was the most prosaic in
our literary history. In its course theology,
philosophy, even poetry itself, were chained 
either to common sense, or to a ranting rapture
which dispensed with literary sincerity, and
was is fact, more prosaic than all prose. What
mainly flourished under the strong leaden
sceptre of Dryden was satire, in new and strin-
gent forms; artificial comedy, brutal at first,
and harsh, but polished at length to the last ex-
tremity of cynical elegance; burlesque verses,
very smart and modern, which passed for
poetry; the political pamphlet; the clear limpid
art of the letter-writer, modelled, through
Roger L'Estrange, on the directness of the
Lettres Portuyaises; the sincere, naked thought
of Locke, with its dislike of ornament and
carelessness of authority; the first grotesque
babble of modern criticism; the dryness of the
polemical divines; and over it all, covering its
defects as with a garment, the new graces of
the competent current prose of the day. This
is the vestibule of the eighteenth century, and
across its very threshold the rich brocaded wit
of Congreve shakes hands with the urbanity and
grace of Addison.
	The age of Swift is fuller of intellectual ac-
tivity, more genial, more varied, more enthu-
siastic. The coldest period is over, and already 
a faint flush of the summer of romanticism is
discoverable. This fuller life takes many 
forms. In philosophy the age is no longer
[column 2]
content with the bald presentment of Locke's
ideas, but with something less than positive 
originality, calls to its aid the fancy and
ingenuity of Shaftesbury, the brilliant imagina-
tion of Berkley. In poetry, though the
general type is artificial still, there is no longer
the protracted cultivation of one form; satire
takes urbaner and less brutal shapes, and, half
way through the period, the landscape poets
push in with their blank verse, and the lyrists
with their octosyllabics. The drama somewhat
abruptly expires, and while the nation is wait-
ing for the development of the novel, Addison
holds its ear with the humor and dainty senti-
ment of his essays. A delicate amenity, a 
sweetness of expression marks the age of Anne;
and even the ferocities of Swift and Mandeville
do not belie this general impression of increas-
ing civilization of the mind, since the very 
wounds inflicted by these writers show the
tenderness of the contemporary epidermis.
Such satire would not have penetrated a genera-
tion grown pachydermatous under the flail of
Oldham or Lord Dorset. There was a rapid
development of the power of ridicule by prose
and verse, a general sharpening and pointing
of every literary weapon, and it was in this
age of Swift that English prose reached its 
maximum of strength, elegance, and elasticity
combined.
	Something was again relinquished in the 
third period, that of Johnson. Here, to secure
more strength, needless weight was superadded
to language; elasticity was lost in a harmony
too mechanically studied. What was really
best in this third age was directly recovered
from the early Anne writers, as Goldsmith, its
best author, is seen returning to the traditions
of Addison and Congreve. The main contri-
bution of this period to literature is the novel,
which opens with "Pamela" in its first year,
1841. Before the generation closed, the earliest
development of fiction was over and the novel
in decline. In verse, what was not imitative of
the old schools was suggestive of what did not
come till the next century began. On one
hand we have Goldsmith, Johnson and 
Churchill reviving the manner of Pope; on the
other we have Gray and Collins in their odes,
and Chatterton in his verse-romances, prophesy-
ing of Coleridge and Shelley. Everywhere
during this third period the buried and forgot-
ten seeds of romantic fancy were becoming
stimulated, and were pushing their shoots above
ground in Percy's "Reliques," in a "Castle of
Otranto," in a "Descent of Odin." Mean-
while, what was mainly visible to the public
was the figure of Dr. Samuel Johnson, a ses-
quipdalian dictator, not writing very much or
in a superlatively excellent manner, but talk-
ing publicly, or semi-publicly, in a style hither-
to unprecedented, and laying down the law on
all subjects whatever. Around this great man
collects whatever there is of normal genius in
the generation—Goldsmith and Burke, Gibbon
and Reynolds, Boswell and Garrick—and a 
group is formed, to the student of persons and
manners the most interesting that literary his-
tory can supply. So rich is the age in anecdote,
so great in critical prestige, that the student must 
look closely and carefully to perceive that it is
rapidly declining in intellectual force of every
kind, and by 1780 is only waiting for the de-
cease of two or three old men to sink completely 
into a condition of general mediocrity. When
Dr. Johnson dies, the literature of the
eighteenth century is practically closed, and
the work of removing the debris to prepare for
the nineteenth begins.—Edmund Gosse in The
New Princeton Review.


The National Woman Suffrage Association
has adopted a delegate basis of representation,
and at its next annual convention it will no
longer vote as a mass-meeting, but as a body of
delegates.


84                       WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
      Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
      Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
      EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
      Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
      Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.	
SALT LAKE CITY,			 NOVEMBER 1, 1888.


EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.
	For several years past some very philanthropic
ladies of the East have been (one would think),
greatly troubled concerning the condition of the
women of Utah, and they have, in various ways,
sought to obtain money from charitable institu-
tions, and from the public treasury of the country,
ostensibly to assist in the suppression of plural
marriage and all "its terrible conditions," which,
according to their ideas, its practice has wrought
among the people here in these valleys of the
mountains. They forget the dreadful degradation
of women near home, in their own cities and
towns, or are totally blind to the sin and crime
that abounds in the very heart of the nation, or,
scripturally speaking, they fail to remove the beam
from their own eyes, but reach away over the Rocky
Mountains, penetrating into the very fastnesses to
search and discover the mote in the eyes of the 
"Mormons;" and they think, forsooth, that they
have discerned it in the practice of a principle
that the ancient prophets and patriarchs embraced,
and that God himself approved, he acknowledg-
ing those very men as doing His bidding, walking
in His paths, and in various other ways. But 
without entering into any discussion of the sub-
ject itself, or any dissertation upon the merits of
its practice (especially as Congress has decided
that men can no longer marry other wives, or
recognize those whom they had already taken
previous to the passage of laws provided on pur-
pose to punish the "Mormons"), instead of making
any defence even, because it is utterly useless
now, Congress having decided all things for the
people, as though one's conscience was not to be
considered at all, we only want to mention a few
facts in relation to the methods, by means of
which these anti-Mormon women obtain money
"to aid in suppressing polygamy."
	Foremost among the women of the world who 
have joined this campaign, and whose sympathies
have been so deeply aroused as to cause them to
weep freely, and pray long and loudly for "the griev-
ous wrongs in Utah, done under the cloak of relig-
ion," is Mrs. Angie F. Newman. She has continued
her intercessions in public and in private for years
wherever an opportunity offered, or she could
succeed in making an opening, to be heard on this
exciting topic. Her name is thus becoming widely
known, and she has made a national reputation by
crying down the "Mormons." What her lectures
and arguments are, which she uses so freely and
with such eloquence, as to draw money from the
public treasury, it is easy to see from the reports
to the leading papers of New York and Washing-
ton, and, strange to state, from the Congressional
Record also. It is well that her reports and testi-
monials are given to the public press, for through
these popular sources, "he who runs may read,"
[column 2]
and truth and error may meet in open conflict,
for these untruths cannot pass without contradic-
tion, and every honest-hearted person who ex-
amines without prejudice will discover the truth,
and "Mormon" women are not afraid of the result.
For instance, Mrs. Newman pictures plural wives
as wretched, ignorant, down-trodden, and totally
incapable of maintaining themselves temporally,
or protecting themselves morally; their situation
is deplorable by reason of their helplessness and
illiteracy, having never been taught independence
or self reliance, therefore, "Congress must pro-
vide for these incompetent persons."
	Mormon women themselves claim that they
know their own history and condition better than
any one else possibly can, and that they have no
need or occasion for the money obtained, or
methods introduced by these officious sympathizers
under false pretenses, to better their circum-
stances and lift them to the plane of modern
civilization, such as the Gentile world claim as the
EXCELSIOR.
	Recently in Mrs. Newman's lectures she told a
sensational story, one or more, to the W. C. T. U.
in New York, that perfectly horrified them, and
would have terrified the "Mormon" women still
more, had the stories been true; but when contra-
dicted by reputable non-Mormons, as well as real,
live Mormons, what will Mrs. Newman do for ma-
terial to draw upon in the future? Mrs. Newman
has a great deal of polish, and knows what will
take with the religious element outside, and withal
carries an influence that many stronger women of
positive character are not able to maintain. What
a pity her talents are not made use of in the right
direction—in the lifting up and reforming and
bringing back to lives of usefulness those who
have strayed from the paths of virtue, or fallen
victims to the seducer or betrayer of innocence.
If to such charities she would devote her energies
and efforts, she could find abundant opportunity,
and for such a class of women Congress would do
well to provide "Industrial" Homes.
	Here in Utah there are more domestic and other
industries already, than there are women to supply
places and the need for work. Every woman and
child is or may be provided for, because of the
perfect organizations that exist throughout all the
Stakes of Zion, that cover the land from east to 
west, from north to south, wherever the Latter-day
Saints are located. It is one of the principles of
the religion of this peculiar people that they pro-
vide for the poor; it is an injunction of the Savior,
"The poor ye have always with you." The condi-
tion of the Mormon women is only deplorable because
of the interference of Congress with their marital
relations; the breaking up of happy homes, and
the separation of those bound together by the
most solemn ties and covenants, and the love that
is stronger than death itself. These things have
come about through the misrepresentations and
falsehoods circulated by unprincipled people for
their own selfish purposes, and not for the love of
virtue and righteousness, by any means.
	The thousands of tourists that have visited Utah
during the last few years, some of whom have
taken pains to investigate a little into the condi-
tions of the people, know that no such state of
society exists here as is represented by these men
and women who, for the sake of gain and notoriety,
join the popular outcry against the "Mormons."
Ladies of culture and refinement who have visited
here and spent some time among the people,
meeting them in their homes and socially, have
informed us that on returning home and telling the
simple truth about the "Mormons," they have been
berated as though it was a crime to tell the truth
of a people so despised; and they were either
accused of having been "converted to polygamy"
or bought with "Mormon" money, or that they
had only seen what is termed by the outside world
"gilt-edged Mormonism."
[column 3]
	Recently, while traveling on a railway train, four
gentlemen in conversation struck upon "Mormon
ism," in our hearing. Evidently they knew very
little of its principles, but they had been in Salt
Lake, and each one seemed disposed to "tell it
all." One man said he had been in Salt Lake
City frequently, and that once while traveling
from Chicago to this city he met a charming young
woman, with whom he conversed considerably
about the "Mormons;" he denounced Brigham
Young as an impostor, and so on, and expressed
himself very emphatically against the practice of
polygamy, etc. She apparently acquiesced in all
that he said. After his arrival in Salt Lake, he
chanced to meet her on the street, and recognized
her; a gentleman in whose company he was at
the time, rather astonished at his knowing a
"Mormon lady, said: "Do you know her?" "Well,
yes," he replied, "we traveled together a part of
the way from Chicago." The friend then in-
formed him that she was the granddaughter of
Brigham Young, and that her husband was under-
ground, and had been for two or three years, and
that she was a firm believer in the doctrine of
polygamy, etc. Now, to one acquainted with the
family of Brigham Young this was very funny, to
say the least, but it shows how far off people get,
as Brigham Young has no granddaughter married
to any man who is either in exile, or under-ground.
This subject of "under-ground" was immediately 
taken up by the party conversing, and inquiries
elicited the following explanation from the man
who knew it all. He said the "Mormons" had a
system of under-ground tunnels, and that the
deputies and detectives, vigilant as they were,
and the best the government could employ, had
never been able to discover how it was managed,
or where ingress, or egress were obtained; that
the man that had given them the most troupble of
any, and the one they wanted to get the worst was
"Cannon," who was now the President of the
Church, and had come out and given himself up
since "Cleveland" had appointed a Democratic
Judge. He went on to say a great deal more
about "this" man "Cannon," and the "Mormons"
all being democrats and solid for Cleveland, etc.
One of the men who was older and evidently
wiser, and who had traveled in China and other
foreign countries, began to relate stories of the
condition of women and female children in  those
lands, and the conversation drifted off into the
greater absurdities he could tell, to which "Mor-
mon" stories sank into insignificance, and they
finally dropped the "Mormon" topic.
	To one so well acquainted as the writer with
"Mormonism" and the people, it was more than
absurd to sit silently and hear these ridiculous
tales about under-ground tunnels, "Mormon"
treasures, their politics, etc., and who presided
over the Church, and his unbounded influence
and a great deal more of the same kind of thing. 
No doubt the same stories are told over and over,
and each time exaggerated and elaborated, and
the people swallow these fabrications as facts, and
circulate them far and wide. Sensational stories
about "Mormons" are about like "Baron Mun-
chausen" and "Sinbad, the Sailor," tales, and will
by and by be looked upon by those who have read
and heard them as just as ridiculous. Mrs. New-
man and the Industrial Home business may
prosper for a time, but Congress will learn at last
that "Mormon" women will not accept help in
any such way, and that their belief in their re-
ligion is "without money and without price. They
are not to be bought in any such way, and how-
ever ignorant and uncultivated the world may
think them, they scorn and despise such methods
as these professedly "Christian" women resort to
to obtain money and favor and notoriety. They
can look with pity upon those afar off, who are
deceived in regard to the conditions here, but for
those who come among them and partake of their
hospitality and know the truth, and then go away


and boldly and openly declare falsely concerning
the situation, they can only have the most severe
contempt. But they are in the hands of One who
knows the secrets of all hearts, and who will
eventually “come out of His hiding place,” and
until that time wickedness will prevail, and those
who wish to keep the laws of God will be persecu-
ted; but for those who walk in the light of the
Gospel, and are steadfast, clinging to “the iron
rod,” there is no need of fear.
	Therefore, the women of the Latter-day Saints
can pursue the even tenor of their way, and per-
form the duties, of every-day life, laying a sure
foundation in the hearts and minds of their child-
ren, that they may grow up in the knowledge of
God and his ways, walking in His precepts and
obeying His commandments, and while they do
these things, and all others required, the Lord
will fight their battles and provide for their de-
liverance from the bondage of their enemies in
His own way, to the astonishment of those who
are waiting and watching for their downfall and
destruction.


WOMEN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Deseret Sunday School Union have re-
cently issued a new Sunday School Hymn Book.
The book is well printed and neatly bound in
cloth, and is of a size suitable to be handled by
the children. It contains 254 pages, and 111
hymns. The title page says, "Hymns and Sacred
Songs," "Designed for the use of the Children of 
the Latter-day Saints." The index is carefully
arranged, giving the first words of the hymn, and
the name of the author of each piece. There is
a reference to music—explanatory—and Index to 
subjects. In fact the book seems quite complete,
and must, one would think, be a great help in the
Sabbath Schools and elsewhere. Every child
should have one; children are always impressed 
with hymns and songs learned while in their
young and tender years. They remember the 
little verses they recited and sang, "e'en down to 
old age," consequently it is of the utmost import-
ance that they should be taught precious truths
and pure sentiments in their little lessons. The
Deseret S. S. Union are doing a good and noble
work in many ways—quietly, as well as in the Sun-
day Schools, to educate and benefit the children
of the Saints, that they may grow up to be an
honor and blessing in Israel. The hymns have
been selected and arranged with great care, and
with earnest thought, for the welfare of the youth
of Zion. The book will certainly prove a bless-
ing to all, in the schools and in the homes.
Printed and for sale at the office of the Juvenile
Instructor for 25 cts.
	"REMINISCENCES OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS,"
by L. O. Littlefield, is the title of a very handsome
book issued at the office of the Utah Journal,
Logan, Utah. The book contains 208 pages, and
is in close, readable type for old and young. The 
Latter-day Saints have a great deal of material 
for this sort of writing, and plenty of historical 
facts that are sufficiently interesting and teeming
with variety to suit all classes of readers. It is 
very commendable in Bro. Littlefield to get up a
work of this kind to add to the libraries of the 
people. There is so much of the literature of the
age that is not fit to be introduced into the homes
of the people, that it behooves the Latter-day
Saints to look well and carefully into this matter,
and see what books are being read by their child-
ren; and if they want them to cultivate faith in the
Gospel, it will be a good thing to give them such
books as the one just out from the pen of Bro.
Littlefield. It contains many truths told in a 
graphic way, likely to make a vivid impression of 
the scenes and incidents through which many of


the Saints have been called to pass in the early 
days and times of the establishment of the Church.
Every page of the book is full of interest, and all
those who participated in the events therein de-
scribed, will feel gratified in reading the author's 
version of the trials, troubles, persecutions and 
afflictions of the Saints. The statement of Lucy 
W. Kimball, in the third chapter will be read with
intense interest everywhere. The price of the 
book is $1.00, and it should be widely circulated.
We trust the time will come when there will be
books enough published by this people to supply 
the home market. Reminiscences cannot fail to
do good and to please and instruct, as well as
benefit all who peruse its pages.


IN MEMORIAM.
LIBBIE WELLS.
	Again in sadness we feel the loss of another
one beloved. It was all so sudden and so strange,
that only as the days pass by and we no more see
her lovely face, or hear her pleasant voice in the
familiar places where she was wont to be, do we
begin to realize that it must be true, and she has
gone, gone from our midst; that “already, kneel-
ing at the throne, she has received her welcome,
and is resting on the bosom of her Savior.”
Calmly and sweetly she seemed to sleep, and no one
dreamed it was the last, long sleep, from which she
never more would waken. Carefully they moved
around the darkened chamber, and only in whispers
spoke, for fear of waking her, until long hours
had passed, and still she slept, strangely slept;
then in alarm they tried to wake her, but all in
vain; cries, calls, entreaties, moans, were alike
unheeded; the angel of death had claimed her,
and was bearing her soul into another realm.
	How natural it must have been to her to fall
into a painless, quiet sleep in her earthly home,
and to awake in heaven; but, alas! how strange to
us to see one so cherished, in seeming health,
sleep her life away, and never utter a single part-
ing word. Her few years on this earth she doubt-
less now recalls as but a happy dream, and in her
glorious home awaits its fulfillment, when, with
all her dear ones, now so sadly bereft, she will
dwell forever, evermore.
	By all who knew her she was greatly beloved
and admired, not alone for her extreme beauty
and charming manner, but her devotion to her
loved ones and her motherly tenderness. “If
human love has power to penetrate the veil (and
hath it not?) then there are yet living here a few
who have the blessedness of knowing that an angel
loves them.”
	Many and beautiful were the floral offerings
from friends, who could do nothing more, only by
these sweet, silent tributes express their sympathy
and love. Sweet and exquisite were the songs
sung at the home, ere her mortal body was borne
to its last resting place, and eloquent and inspiring
were the words of comfort and hope uttered by
friends whose hearts were also bleeding.
	We dare not question what we do not under-
stand; strange though it seems to us that one so
needed here should be called from earth, we truly
feel, “Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O
death!” and some day, perhaps, as we wait and
wonder, the mystery will unfold, and in praise our
hearts will say, “God knew the best.”
	Mary Elizabeth, the daughter of H. S. and
Marion M. Beatie, and the wife of Heber M. Wells,
was born at Salt Lake City, Dec. 9, 1858, and
died on Saturday, Oct. 13, 1888. A wide circle
of friends mourn their loss in losing her, but their
hearts ache more for the sorrowing husband, the
three little children—Manning, Hebe and Mary—
in the home so lonely, and the widowed mother.
If sympathy and kind wishes can aid, they are
yours.
	A. W. C.


LIB.
To the regions of rest, where the blissful abide,
Rocked to sleep on the waves of Eternity’s tide,
Thou art gone in the bloom of thy beauty so rare,
And a bright star has dropt from Life's firmament fair.

Dost thou dream of the sorrow bewailing thee here,
Of the once happy home, of the hearts sad and drear,
That were wont to brim over with gladness and glee?—
Though they ne'er knew delight if 'twere absent from thee.

Art thou mindful of him, thy young life’s only love,
Whose fond soul, sorrow-bowed, fain would seek thee
	above,
Save 'twere duty to bide where stern destiny’s thrall
Has enchained him a captive, awaiting God’s call?

Will thy angel heart yearn for love's tender caress
From thy little ones, left in the world motherless?
Is memory immortal, or aught to thee now
The burdens 'neath which thy soul erstwhile did bow?

Soft as falls from the fountain of life the glad dew
O'er the sun-withered flow'r, till it blossom anew,
Was the voice that gave answer, so silent, so sweet,
Ne’er did music of earth the rapt senses so greet:—

Dost thou mourn, love, my absence? Behold I am here
At thy side, though unseen, and shall ever be near.
Deem me not with the dead; ’tis from death l am free;
And ’tis thou that art with them—my darlings and thee.

For am I not still thy companion and friend? 
Or can death break the sealing that knoweth no end?
Where else should I be, love, than here at thy side;
Ever near thee to cheer thee, whatever betide?

And our babes, though bereft of a mother’s fond care
In the life I have left; shall they not claim a share.
Of that love which alone may the ransomed e’er know,
As they lave in its waters, or bask in its glow?

Is memory immortal? Aye, ever and e'er;
All that life hath e’er known, or forgotten, is here
Plainly writ in the book of the soul, where we read
Of the heart’s every hope, of the past's every deed.

Ne’er grieves the glad spirit o’er pains that are past,
Nor sighs for earth’s pleasures, too sinful to last;
For the summit is gained, and the mystery riven
Of the wisdom of God and the glory of heaven.
							O. F. WHITNEY. 
To my dear friend Hebe, October, 1888.


NEW ORGANIZATION.
	On Tuesday, Oct. 16, 1888, a meeting was held
at Hunter Ward, Salt Lake Stake, for the purpose 
of organizing a Relief Society, Bishop Miller pre-
siding. Meeting opened by singing, “On the
mountain tops appearing,” etc. Prayer by Coun.
J. T. Evans. Singing, “An angel from on high,”
etc.
	The Bishop made a few suitable remarks in re-
gard to the object of the meeting, and Prest. M.
I. Horne followed him, speaking concerning the ob
ject and effect of these organizations; referred to
the many benevolent institutions in the East, and
also to the interviews and conversations she had
with the people she met while abroad.
	After she had concluded, the Bishop spoke of
his interest in the matter, and his anxiety to have
the sisters in his ward organized in conformity
with others, and nominated Sister Jeanette Coch-
ran to act as President of the Relief Society of
Hunter, and Sisters Charlotte Neilson and Eliza-
beth Evans, Counselors, Mary Cochran, Secre-
tary, and Sarah Morris, Treasurer. These
officers were unanimously sustained, and seventeen
sisters who were present gave their names and
were enrolled as members of the Society. The
President and other officers were then set apart
by the Bishop and his Counselors; Bishop Hard-
man, of Pleasant Green, was present and as-
sisted. 
	After the organization was completed the
Bishop made some remarks upon local duties, and


alluded to the counsel given at the late General
Conference.
	Sisters E. S. Taylor and E. B. Wells each
addressed the meeting a short time, principally
in regard to the position occupied by the women
of Zion, and the many responsibilities resting
upon them. Exhorted all to diligence and faith-
fulness.
	Sister Horne gave some explicit instructions to
the sisters in relation to the newly organized So-
ciety, and spoke upon union particularly.
	Elder Joseph Horne occupied a few minutes,
dwelling mostly on the importance of teaching the
children the principles of the Gospel in their
early years.
	After singing, the benediction was pronounced
by Elder A. A. Jones.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SILK INDUSTRY.
To the Presidents of the various Stake and Ward
	Organizations of the Relief Society:

	The re-commencement of the silk industry after
fourteen years of incessant labor in its advocacy
is a great pleasure to me. The Government has
promised to assist us by distributing silk-worm
eggs and other necessary support to encourage the
industry in this Territory, and will also purchase
the cocoons at the market price, so that we may
raise them, there having been $20,000 expended
to establish suitable and excellent machinery in
the District of Columbia, under the auspices of the
United States Agricultural department. They have
also established a Division, department, known as
the Silk Division, which I am, by their desire,
furnishing all the information and statistics I can
give them.
	I therefore suggest, that each ward and settle-
ment form themselves into united effort, and make
the enterprise a success. Some one who under-
stands the raising of the worms and cocoons
should lead out, so as to instruct and assist others
with the knowledge they possess, and by that
and any other means, we may be enabled to realize
a good amount of means, which would be in cash,
which we all like to handle.
	 Any of the sisters or Societies wanting any in-
formation on the subject, by writing to me will be
duly answered, by sending postage stamp for the
same. I would like to visit you, but I am almost
past being able to travel, and especially alone
having passed eighty-three summers.
					DANIEL C. GRAVES, Supt.


[Column 1]
﻿THE LAND OF THE CENTER STAKE.
	Elders Edward Stevenson, J. S. Black and An-
drew Jenson have been making a visit during the
last two months to many of the points of interest
associated with the early days of the Church.
Their sketches have been presented to the public
in a series of well written, historical letters,  pub-
lished in the Deseret News, and have attracted
wide interest. The following letter, written from
Kansas City, Sept. 12, 1888, by Elder Jenson, will,
we think, be particularly interesting, because of
its memoir of John E. Page, given by his aged
widow and his son, and because of its reference
to the prophetic Jackson County, of which the
Saints so love to hope and sing. Bro. Jenson
says:	
	Yesterday, before leaving Independence, we
visited the widow of the late John E. Page. She
lives near the Temple lot, and is about 70 years
old. From her and her son, Justin E. Page, who
owns a blacksmith shop immediately south of and
facing the Temple lot, we learned that the late
John E. Page, after absenting himself from the
Church, located in De Kalb County, Illinois,
where he engaged in farming. Later he removed
to a point about six miles north of Sycamore, De

[Column 2]
Kalb County, where he died in the fall of 1867,
being then 68 years and 8 months old. According
to his own request, he was buried under an ash-
tree on his own farm. His son declared that he
died in full faith in the divinity of the Book of
Mormon and the prophetic calling of Joseph
Smith. After his death the widow removed with
the children to De Kalb, and later located at Inde-
pendence, Missouri. Besides the two sons who
reside in the latter place, a daughter of John E.
Page now lives in Tennessee, and a third son
resides in Kansas.
	As Jackson County, the land of Zion, where the
Saints in the near future expect to build a temple
to the Most High, and also a holy city, in which
the Lamb of God shall dwell in peace, I have
taken the pains to collect the following from
various reliable sources:
	Jackson County is located in north latitude 39
degrees and 4 seconds; its northwestern corner
commencing at the confluence of the Kansas
River with the waters of the Missouri, the latter
of which, for a distance of forty miles of its mean-
derings, separate it from Clay and Ray counties
upon the north. Upon a straight line the distance
is 27 miles from the eastern to the western bound-
ary. The length of the eastern boundary north
and south is 23 miles, and the extreme length
from its most northern point upon the Missouri
River to its southern line is 27 miles. It is
bounded on the east by Lafayette and Johnson
counties, south by Cass County, and west by
the Kansas State line, having an area of 385,404
acres.
	Jackson County presents some physical features
found in no other county in Missouri. There are
three elevations or ridges passing through it from
the south bearing northward 30 degrees east.
The water drained from these ridges feed streams
upon the east and west sides, those upon the east
side of the western ridge become tributaries to
the Big Blue, which discharges its waters into
the Missouri, six miles below the mouth of the
Kansas River, and those upon the western slope
empty into the Kansas. The waters drained from
central ridge form streams upon the west side that
also become tributaries to the Big Blue, and those
drained from the eastern slope empty into the
Little Blue, which forms the eastern boundary of
the second ridge. The waters of the Little Blue
are discharged into the Missouri at a point thirty
miles by the river line east of the Kansas.
Waters drained from the third or east ridge form
streams, that also become tributaries of the Little
Blue, flowing west, and those from the east side
flow into the Sni-a-bar, which discharges its
waters into the Missouri about three miles east
of the Northeast corner of the country. These
principal streams having their sources in the
country south and west of Jackson County are
made up of springs that are found upon the up-
lands in great number. Along the streams are
found bodies of excellent timber. The three
elevations mentioned passing through the county
north and terminate abruptly on the Missouri
River the middle one having an elevation of 354
feet above high water mark at a point four miles
north of Independence. The western ridge ter-
minates at Kansas City at an elevation of 292 feet
above high water mark, and the eastern ridge
breaks off near the northeast corner of the coun-
ty. These three elevations, running nearly par-
allel with each other, the eastern and western
approaching the central, finally unite, or consoli-
date in one general elevation about five miles
south and five miles east of the southwest corner
of the county, forming a topographical elevation,
the general direction of which is southwest, and
may be followed by the continued elevation to the
summit of Pike’s Peak, in Colorado, without
crossing a single stream of water.
	These elevations with their perfect drainage
present an exceedingly pure atmosphere through-

[Column 3]
out the entire county, thus precluding the possi-
bility of malaria to exist to any great extent.
Hence it is one of the most healthy and desirable 
places of Missouri from a sanitary standpoint.
	It can be safely estimated that 300,000 acres of
the entire area are susceptible of high cultivation
for agricultural purposes. The soil is very rich
and fertile and the river bottoms are susceptible
of yielding a larger crop per acre than any other
lands northwest of the Mississippi River. The
lands upon which the huckleberry grows are re-
garded as being the richest and most productive.
Wheat and Indian corn are raised in abundance.
The wonderful blue grass grows spontaneously
and its beautiful carpet covers the whole country,
lending beauty to lawns and door yards, and
wealth to innumerable pasture lands. Under
cultivation or in prepared ground its spears grow
to the enormous height of four feet, and its seed
spikes stand firm and erect at the height of two to
three feet. This grass excels all others as a pas-
ture grass. The earliest in spring to attract the
lowing herd, it is the last to succumb to the frosts
and snows of winter, after having furnished good
grazing all through the spring, summer and au-
tumn months. Timothy, orchard grass and red
clover also grow with great rapidity when culti-
vated.
	Being located upon the highest elevation of land
between the Rocky and Allegheny mountains the
air in Jackson County is pure, healthy and sali-
brious. The sky is generally clear; there is
scarcely a day but what some sunshine is seen,
and snow in winter rarely lies on the ground over
a week or ten days.
	Jackson County is especially adapted for stock
raising.
	Of the many sorts of timber which grow to
great perfection are the huckleberry, ash, oak,
elm, hickory sugar, maple, walnut etc.; the latter
has attained a height of from 50 to 100 feet in the
county.
	The county is well supplied with springs of liv-
ing water gushing out upon every hill side. Wells
of from 10 to 50 feet deep give a supply of good
limestone water.
	Jackson County is known for its fine orchards.
Apples, pears, peaches, cherries, plums, quince
and grapes are raised in abundance, and in the
berry line, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries,
etc.
	Independence, the country seat, is one of the
oldest towns in Northwestern Missouri, having
been laid out in 1827 by commissioners appointed
by the General Assembly of Missouri, to pre-empt
a tract of land upon which to locate a country
seat for Jackson County. The original plat con-
tained 240 acres, upon which there are sixteen
springs of pure crystal water. Since then the
city has been largely added to, and the additions
made now include 600 acres within the corporate
limits. The town is located upon an elevation of
1,75 feet above the Atlantic Ocean, and 338 feet
above the level of the Missouri River, being the
highest point in Northwestern Missouri, or be-
tween the Allegahny and Rocky Mountains, along
the same lime of latitude. The court house is
located in the centre of one of the highest eleva-
tions. The grounds upon which it stands com-
prise one acre and a half, being beautified by,
trees and a magnificent lawn of blue grass. From
the cupola of the court house a most beautiful
view can be had of the surrounding country. In
1881 there were 38 stores, 3 colleges and 12
church edifices in Independence. Now there are
a number more. In 1881 the town contained 3,250
inhabitants; now they claim upwards of 5,000.
	There is at present about as much prospect for
the Saints to return to Jackson County to possess
it as there was anciently for the children of Israel
to return to Jerusalem from their captivity in
Babylon, after the seventy years predicted by the
Prophet as the period of bondage were ended


when the wicked Belshazzar mocked the God of
Israel by desecrating the holy vessels taken from
the Temple in Jerusalem. The events of a single
night at that time, however, so completely changed
the condition of the children of Israel, that that
which a day before seemed an utter impossibility,
now became comparatively easy, and the words of
the Prophet were literally fulfilled. Israel did
return to their own land. So, also, shall the words
of the Lord be fulfilled in regard to the Latter-day 
Israel. Zion shall be redeemed as the Prophets
have told, and the Saints occupy this land of their
inheritance.
						ANDREW JENSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
		SAN JUAN STAKE

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	The Relief Society of San Juan Stake held its
quarterly conference at Monticello, Aug. 27th,
1888, commencing at 9 a.m., Prest. Jane M.
Walton presiding. A number of the brethren
were present, including Prest. F. A. Hammond
and Counselors, and the bishops of the various
wards. After the usual preliminaries of sing-
ing and prayer, the minutes of the previous
conference were read and approved.
	Prest. Jane M. Walton made a few remarks;
prayed that we might have the Spirit of God
in our meeting; encouraged the sisters to do
what is right, and wished the young  sisters to
attend the Relief Society.
	Prest. Mary Roberts reported the Mancos
Society; said it was in a thriving condition.
The teachers had done a good work among the
sisters. Felt like going forward and doing all
the good she could. Prayed the Lord to bless
us all.
	Prest. Jane M. Walton spoke of selecting a
Stake Secretary, and Sister Sarah Jane Roger-
son was chosen, unanimously sustained, and
set apart by Prest. F. A. Hammond. The
former Secretary was honorably released, hav-
ing done a good work.
	Sister Jane Perkins bore a faithful testimony
to the work of God. Exhorted the sisters to
keep the word of wisdom.
	First Coun. to Prest. F. A. Hammond en-
dorsed what had been said by the previous
speaker; gave some very valuable instruction 
to the sisters.
	The officers of the Stake were presented 
and sustained.
	Prest. F. A. Hammond made pertinent re-
marks concerning attending meeting. Said
not to let anything hinder us from attending
meeting; and when we came to conference to 
stay till it was over. Exhorted the Saints to
sustain those who were placed over them.
	Prest. Jane M. Walton made a few closing
remarks; advised the officers to be in union
with each other and with their bishops.
		JANE M. WALTON, President,
		SARAH JANE ROGERSON, Secretary.

		  HYRUM PRIMARY.
	The Primary Association of Hyrum held its
annual meeting Oct. 2nd, 1888, at 10 o’clock
a.m. There were present on the stand Stake
Prest. Jane E. Molen, Acting Coun. Emma
Pike, Coun. James Unsworth, Prest. Martha
Allen, 1st District, Prest. Phenella Allen, 2nd
District, Prest. Maria Hanson, 3rd District,
Sisters Johnson, Stevens and others of the
Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. 
	Meeting opened with singing. Prayer by
Bro. C. F. Olsen. Singing, “In our lovely
Deseret.” Minutes of the last annual meeting
read and accepted. Reports of the 1st, 2nd
and 3rd Districts were read and accepted. A
well selected programme was rendered, which
consisted of songs, essays, recitations and dia-
[column 2]
logues, interspersed with short speeches from
the brethren and sisters.
	Coun. James Unsworth said, “I can see
 much improvement in  the Primary since my
last visit, which I am thankful for.” En-
couraged the children to attend their meetings,
for the time would come when they would be
called to fill responsible positions.
	Stake Prest. Jane E. Molen: "I am proud
of the exercises this morning; they are all
selections from our own Church works, and so
well rendered. I can see a marked improve-
ment, and am pleased to see so many of the
mothers come to meeting; it shows they are
also interested in their children.” Asked the
children to give them a vote of thanks.
	Sister Pike, of Logan, was very pleased to
see so many boys come up to the front, and
said, “Your exercises have been a credit to all
your Presidents, and your selections have been
very good.” Related an incident of childhood.
Said, “We should be willing to lend a helping
hand to the poor and needy; we should be
prayerful to God.” Spoke of the Fair in
Logan; thought it was very good. Said it
would be a good idea for the presidents to
visit each other’s ward. Bro. Pike also made
a few remarks. Singing. Benediction by
Bro. Orson Wilson.
			ALICE UNSWORTH, Cor. Sec.

	 	      UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake, which con-
vened in the meeting house, Provo City, on
Aug. 31st, 1888. Prest. Mary John being
absent, Counselors Emily G. Cluff and Marilla
M. Daniels presided. Conference opened by
singing and prayer. Minutes of former con-
ference were read and approved. Written
reports from the different branches were also
read; four branches failed to send their reports.
	Sister Marilla Daniels was pleased to meet
with us again; felt to pray that the Spirit of
the Lord might be with us while we are to-
gether. Spoke of the absence of Sister John
on account of sickness, and of the duties
devolving upon each member of the Society,
more especially the teachers, what those duties
were, etc.
	The presidents of the different branches
through the County were called upon to give
verbal reports, and responded with few excep-
tions. The reports showed an increase of
faith and unity among the faithful few which
are found in every branch. The forenoon be-
ing taken up with hearing reports, conference
adjourned till 2 p.m.
	Conference  met at 2 p.m. as per adjourn-
ment. Sister Emily G. Cluff said we would
now hear from the southern part of the County,
as we had heard from the northern part in the
morning. The sisters gave good and encourag-
ing reports from each branch, and all bore a
strong and faithful testimony to the truth of
this work.
	Bishop Packard, from Springville, being
present, spoke in praise of the Society of
Springville. Spoke of the organization of
this Society; had seen the words of the Prophet
Joseph verified in numerous instances, where
he said the poor should weep for joy at being
helped by the Relief Society. “There is no
one need want, if they will let their wants be
known. The teachers are active and diligent
in their duties.”
	Bishop Halliday, of Santaquin, felt that the
Relief Society had done a great deal of good;
they had been a great help to him, and he felt
to thank them for it. “The good that has
been done by this Society will never be appre-
ciated on this side of the veil, but will be
commemorated hereafter. You should be pre-
pared to comfort with spiritual as well as tem-
poral food. If Sister Smoot could do so, she
[column 3]
would, no doubt, with Sister Eliza meet with
you here to-day. They would say, ‘Sisters, do
be faithful; do not be discouraged.’ When we
do the best we can we feel approved here, and
will receive rewards hereafter. There is a
great work to be done till all are redeemed; do
not give up, but be faithful as long as you live.
I feel to bless you in the name of the Lord.
Amen.”
	Emily G. Cluff wished to bear her testimony
to the truth of this work. “Our time is up;
let us keep the good Spirit with us.” Asked
the sisters to be punctual in sending in their
reports. Closed by praying God to be with us.
	After singing and prayer, conference ad-
journed for three months.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.

	    BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle, Brigham City, on the 11th of
September, 1888, at 10 o'clock a.m., Prest.
Harriet A. Snow presiding. After singing,
“Come, let us anew,” etc., prayer was offered
by Sister Harriet Hunsaker. Singing. Roll
called. Minutes of previous conference read
and accepted.
	Prest. H. A. Snow: “I consider it our duty
to educate ourselves up to our privileges; it
takes a little means to carry on the work
properly; we need to be energetic. In order
to have confidence in each other, we must live
up to our duties, speak well of each other, and
not notice the faults of others too much, but
watch ourselves, for we must overcome our
failings, and be faithful.”
	Statistical and financial reports from fifteen
different branches were read by the Secretary,
Mary E. Snow.
	Prest. Dewey, of Deweyville: “It gives me
joy that I have a testimony for myself; I have
a desire in my heart to be humble and faith-
ful."
	Prest. Harper, of Calls Fort, spoke of the
difficulties for mothers to come from a distance.
	Prest. Petersen, of Bear River City: “I feel
thankful that I am able to be here.” Sister
Petersen had recently recovered from a severe
sickness.
	Prest. Harriet Hunsaker, of Honeyville:
“We need to be instructed from day to day,
that we may not fall away.” Spoke of the
danger in pleasure seeking.
	Prest. Christina Jensen, of Mantua: “We
must exert ourselves to attend our meetings.
We always receive encouragement and strength
by speaking one to another.”
	Prest. Hubbard, of Willard City: “I re-
joice that I have been kept in the faith; I am
thankful for all the blessings we enjoy. It is a
time when we should be prayerful. What a
blessing that we have a Father in heaven;
what a blessing to be a Saint, but I realize
every day how hard it is to be a Saint in very
deed. How beautiful it is to be a Latter-day
Saint; it is those who will receive the reward of
the faithful.”
	Coun. Olivia Widerborg: “We can not
afford to neglect our duties.” Spoke of seri-
culture and home-manufacture of hats. “I
believe in a practical religion.”
	Miss Fannie Graehl read the account of the
Stake Treasury. Singing. Benediction by
Coun. Susannah P. Boothe.
	Afternoon session: Singing. Prayer by
Coun. Adolph Madsen. The Stake board pre-
sented by Mary E. Snow and sustained.
	Coun. Susannah Boothe: “We are not all
tried in the same manner; some are tried in one
way, some in another.” Spoke of the hard-
ships of the pioneers.
	Prest. of 2nd Ward, Mary E. Snow: “I
often wonder if I appreciate fully the great
blessings I enjoy.”


Prest. Jensen, 3rd Ward: “I realize we do
not fulfill our duties as we ought to; each one
must work for herself to obtain an experience.”
	Prest. Watkins, 4th Ward, and Emilia D.
Madsen spoke next.
	Sister Sophia Hubbard: “I feel I have
passed through too much to become slack in
my duties.”
	Sister Susannah Facer: “There are not
many of us that escape trials, but let us strive
to pass through them with grace; they will be
sanctified unto us.”
	Sister Harding: “We should take the
Juvenile Instructor and other good works, that
our sons and daughters may find good and in-
teresting reading matter at home.”
	Prest. Rudger Clawson: “I would have been
well satisfied to sit and listen to the testimonies
of the sisters. One great effect of these meet-
ings is that it will awake us, that we may not
go to sleep. This is a good occasion, every 
three months to ask ourselves, ‘Have we im-
proved? In the last three months am I a better
woman, or a better man?’ There is a wonder-
fully large field of labor before you, but I think 
the mother’s greatest mission is to instruct and
educate her children.”
	Bishop Dewey: “I feel we are equally en-
gaged, male and female; our works are a little
different, but all tending to save souls.”
	Coun. Adolph Madsen: “I regret to occupy
the time that belongs to the sisters; I rejoice
for the good feelings in this part of the Lord’s
work.”
	Bishop Hansen, 4th Ward: “I rejoice in be-
ing here. I think very often our trials are
magnified in our imaginations; when I was in
the ‘Pen’ I felt as though I had no trials.”
Prest. Harriet Snow: “I believe we have all
been benefited; we all should wish to learn,
that we may be a blessing to humanity. I 
should feel more encouraged to gain good
health by striving to fill my duties in the king-
dom of God.”
	Singing. “Lord, dismiss us with thy bless-
ing.” Benediction T. F. Madsen.
	EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Every newspaper, no matter where it is
printed, is opened at the frontier offices in
Russia and carefully looked over before being
sent to its address, and objectionable matter is
stamped out.
	In Lincoln County, Washington Territory,
the Republicans have nominated Mrs. Pryor
for school superintendent, but under the late
Supreme Court decision women are not eligible
to this office in the Territory.
	A few years ago it was thought improper for
a woman to be a foreign missionary unless she
were a missionary’s wife. Now there are 2,400
unmarried woman in the mission field, besides
probably an equal number of married women.
	Mrs. Hu King Eng, a daughter of one of
the native Chinese preachers, who is preparing
herself for missionary work, has finished her
course in the Ohio Wesleyan University, at
Delaware, O., and entered the Medical College
in Philadelphia.
	The only lady who was assigned a part in the
literary programme of the two educational
days at the Ohio Centennial Exposition, was
Miss Maria Jacques, the principal of the Day-
ton public schools, who gave an interesting ad-
dress on “The Schools of the Future.”
	Col. T. W. Higginson is nominated for Con-
gress by the Democrats of the Fifth Congres-
sional District, Mass. He is taking an active
part in the canvass. If elected, we are sure of
his vote for a sixteenth amendment. His op-


ponent, Gen. Banks, is also a friend of woman
suffrage.
	Mormon missionaries are making such pro-
gress in the rear townships of Wales that
Rev. A. E. Whatham, the Church of England
clergyman in Cardiff and Monmouth, has found
it necessary to meet them on the platform and to
challenge them to a discussion of their doctrines
in print. Mr. Whatham now makes a very
fair proposal to the Saints. He says he will
combat them in the columns of their own offi-
cial journal, and will leave it to a committee
composed of four professors of divinity, two
nominated by himself and two nominated by
the Mormons, to say who comes out best.—Ex.


HOUSEHOLD RECIPES.
	Cream Pie.—Cream: One pint of milk, two eggs, one
teaspooful corn starch, a little salt, sweeten to taste, and a
little butter. Paste: Three eggs one large teacup of sugar,
three tablespoonsful of water, one pint flour, one teaspoon-
ful yeast powder. Beat a long time. Bake the paste in
three pie-tins, take it out of the oven, cut each open, and
insert the cream, which must be cool.
	Lemon Pie.—Grate the yellow part of the rind from one
lemon, and squeeze out the juice; one cup of white sugar,
and one tablespoonful of butter, beat to a cream; two
tablespoonsful sweet milk, four eggs; mix all together and
pour into a crust-lined plate to bake. When done, beat the
whites of two eggs with two tablespoonsful of powdered
sugar, spread it over the pie and return to the oven to
brown.
	Pickles.—To make nine quarts of chow-chow take five
quarts of vinegar, three quarts of cucumbers, one head of
cauliflower, onions and tomatoes to suit. Soak them in
salt and water twenty-four hours, except the cucumbers;
put all in the vinegar and boil twenty minutes; add one
pound of Colman’s best mustard, one half bottle curry
powder, and ten cts. worth of tamerick. Wet the mustard,
curry powder and tamerick with vinegar, then turn into the
pickles, stir well and boil five minutes.


OBITUARIES.

[For the EXPONENT.]
	DIED, at Rockville Centre, Oct. 17th, 1888, Sister Amy
Soper, beloved daughter of Wm. R. and Mary E. Soper.
Deceased was baptized in the Fall of 1887, by Elder Chas
Penrose, and confirmed the same evening by Elders Pen-
rose and Hart. She was a young lady of most excellent
qualities, lovely and amiable. When the Relief Society
was organized in Rockville Centre she was appointed Secre-
tary of the same. She was a faithful Latter-day Saint,
although not yet twenty-one years of age, and was willing
to bear the scoffs and frowns of the world rather than reject
the Gospel of Christ. She was cut off by that dread
disease, typhoid fever, preventing  many of us who had
sickness in our own homes from visiting her during her ill-
ness. She leaves a large circle of friends, and we, the
members of the Relief Society, greatly mourn her loss, and
hope that we may emulate her good example, and be ever
true and faithful to the cause we have espoused.
		M. A. SOPER, Prest.
		M. B. P. HORSFALL, Coun.

	DIED, in the 20th Ward, Salt Lake City, at 11:30 p.m.,
Oct. 10, 1888, from the results of an operation for the
removal of an ovarian tumor, Ellen Clayton, wife of John
Miller, of Nephi. Born in Lancashire, England, June
12, 1823; embraced the Gospel in 1849, in St. Louis; emi-
grated to Utah in 1856; came to Nephi in 1863, where she
remained until within a few days previous to her death,
when she went to Salt Lake City for treatment. She was a
faithful teacher in the Nephi Relief Society since its
organization in 1868; was also a teacher in the Sabbath
School for many years. She died as she had lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to remove
from us our esteemed sister, Ellen Clayton Miller, President
of the teachers of the Nephi Relief Society, and,
	Whereas, we realize our loss in her death, therefore,
be it


Resolved, That her removal from our midst is deeply
felt.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with her bereaved
husband and friends.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the Ensign and WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication, and
also be placed on the records of the Nephi Relief Society,
		AMY L. BIGLER,
		M. E. TEASDALE,
			Committee.

	DlED, at Coalville, Summit Co., Utah, August 31st,
1888, after a lingering illness, of pneumonia, Margaret
Gardner Robinson, wife of Elder John Robinson. Sister
Robinson was born Feb. 16th, 1836, near Coxhoe, Durham
Co., England. Was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in the year 1851; emigrated to
the United States in 1856, and came to Utah in Capt. John
R. Young's company of emigrants in 1863, stopping at
Coalville, where she continued to reside until her death,
except a temporary sojourn at Almy, Wyoming Ter., for
the past two years. Sister Robinson was connected with
our Relief Society from its earliest organization, her name
being found on the first list of enrolled members. Her
desires and labors from that time have been continuously
for the furtherance of the object for which our Society was
organized, and in the several offices to which she has been
called, her labors have always been faithfully and unremit-
tingly performed. Sister Robinson was no ordinary
woman in character or ability, A general sense of per-
sonal loss is felt by all who were privileged with her ac
quaintance. Warm-hearted, generous and kind, she drew
her friends close to her, and they loved her for her virtues.
	For her family we have heart-felt sympathy for their loss;
their separation is but for a time. She has gone to a well-
earned rest from life's troubles and toils, living in full faith
in the Gospel, she died in the full confidence of a Christian's
hope, awaiting the resurrection of the just.
		COM.
	Coalville, Oct. 20, 1888,


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and production
in	
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TlES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and in-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1888.	NO. 12.


SOMETHING GREAT.

The trial was ended—the vigil past;
All clad in his arms was the knight at last.
The goodliest knight in the whole wide land,
With face that shone with a purpose grand.
The king looked on him with gracious eyes,
And said, "He is meet for some high emprise."
To himself he thought: "I will conquer fate;
I will surely die, or do something great."

So from the palace he road away;
There was trouble and need in the town that day;
A child had strayed from his mother's side
Into the woodland dark and wide.
"Help!" cried the mother with sorrow wild—
"Help me, Sir Knight, to seek my child!
The hungry wolves in the forest roam;
Help me to bring my lost one home!"

He shook her hand from his bridle rein:
"Alas! poor mother, you ask in vain.
Some meaner succor will do, maybe,
Some squire or varlet of low degree.
There are mighty wrongs in the world to right;
I keep my sword for a noble fight.
I am sad at heart for your baby's fate,
But I ride in haste to do something great."

One wintry night when the sun had set,
A blind old man by the way he met:
"Now, good Sir Knight, for Our Lady's sake,
On the sightless wanderer pity take!
The wind blows cold, and the sun is down;
Lead me, I pray, till I reach the town."
"Nay," said the knight; "I cannot wait;
I ride in haste to do something great."

So on he rode in his armor bright,
His sword all keen for the longed-for fight.
"Laugh with us—laugh!" cried the merry crowd,
"Oh, weep!" wailed others with sorrow bowed.
"Help us!" the weak and weary prayed.
But for joy, nor grief, nor need he stayed.
And the years rolled on, and his eyes grew dim,
And he died—and none made moan for him.

He missed the good that he might have done,
He missed the blessings he might have won.
Seeking some glorious task to find,
His eyes to all humbler work were blind.
He that is faithful in that which is least,
Is bidden to sit at the heavenly feast;
Yet men and women lament their fate,
If they be not called to do something great.
		Selected.


[Column 1]

PICTURESQUE UTAH.

	In 1847, Brigham Young, with one hun-
dred and forty-two adherents ended their long
and toilsome journey across the plains, at the 
spot where Salt Lake City now stands. It is
devoutly believed by the Mormons that their
leader was divinely guided in the location of
Zion. Viewing the beauty and fertility of this
basin to-day it must look even more probable
than when this was an arid desert where eleven
plowshares were broken in the attempt to turn
the first furrow.
	Along the eastward side of this plain are the
Wasatch mountains, and on the west the
Oquirrh range. A scene of marvelous beauty
is spread out before the observer from Prospect
Tower, a sightly point of view north of the town,
which brings in a harvest of dimes to its en-
terprising builder. Mountain, lake and distant
fields add their beauty to that of the city lying
at our feet, with its hundred miles of streets,
and every tree-lined avenue a hundred and 
twenty feet wide allowing each fine architec-

[Column 2]

tural point its full value. Each block con-
tains ten acres, and the city is watered by
channels through which a creek is conducted.
The Mormons always mark their residences
with trees. Their old farms in Missouri and
Illinois are pointed out to-day by the locusts
that they planted. So all through the valley
their towns are beautified with shade, and in
Salt Lake City many of the homes are em-
bowered in the locust, the alanthos, and the
elm.
	The oldest residences in the city are of adobe,
and these plastered and vine-covered are by no
means unpleasing. The buildings first used
for Mormon worship and including Brigham
Young's residences, are surrounded by a quaint,
rude, high wall of cobblestones and mud, and
this still partly standing gives the city quite a
foreign appearance. In this enclosure is the
tithing office, which includes a huge market
for the sale of the produce which is brought in
as the voluntary contribution to the service of
the church—the restitution to Jehovah of his
share. This method has its advantages. Many
persons in other denominations religiously de-
vote the tenth of their substance, and attribute
their worldly prosperity to this observance,
just as the Mormon does. When a whole
church follows this custom it has this advan-
tage: there is no begging or dunning, or in-
debtedness and the contribution box is un-
known.
	Behind this wall with its massive gates is
the office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a paper
that reflects great credit on the literary and
poetic ability of its editor, Emmeline B.
Wells.
	The houses of the prophet, named the "Bee
Hive" and the "Lion House" from the orna-
ments over them, are here, and between these
are the church offices. The office of the
Deseret News, for many years the only journal
between San Francisco and the Missouri river,
is in the same block.  Next to the "Lion
House" the old wall stretches across the street
and an archway through which carriages pass,
is called the "Eagle Gate," from the bird
which spreads its wings above. We pass
through this to go to President Young's grave,
which is in a private lot fenced around by an
iron railing. The grave is also enclosed in the
same manner and covered by a massive granite
slab of many tons weight. There is no inscrip-
tion and no head stone. The graves of five of
his wives are in the same enclosure, and are
marked with the names: Mary Ann Angel
(the first wife); Augusta Adams Cobb; Eliza
R. Snow; Mary Van Cott, and Emeline Free.
How much of tragic history lies silent in these
graves. Eliza Snow, who is revered as a
prophetess and saint, was the widow of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, as was Zina D. Young,
who is still living, and is second only to Eliza
Snow in the hearts of the Mormons. She is
universally called Aunt Zina. To Eliza Snow,
who was a poet of no mean rank, is attributed
the first enunciation of the idea of the mother
element in the God-head, and her poem voicing
this thought is one of the favorite devotional
hymns in use at this period.
	The Tabernacle, Assembly Hall, and the
Gardo House were mentioned in the last letter.
The Temple is the central point of interest.
Its corner stone was laid in 1853, and knowing
what the architecture of this country was at
that date it seems strange to find a design of
such marvelous simplicity, beauty and grandeur,

[Column 3]

as is embodied in the wonderful granite of
which this building is being erected. It has
already cost over $2,000,000. Its foundations
are sixteen feet thick; its walls eight feet of
this solid sparkling granite; and its pillars,
partitions, and even its floors are of solid stone.
The carvings on the outer walls represent the
sun, moon, and stars.
	The most important structure connected
with business is the Zion Co-operative Mercan-
tile Institution, familiarly known as the Co-op.
Z. C. M. I. are initials that become familiar, as
they are not only on every article of merchan-
dise, but on the badge of all branch co-opera-
tive institutions in other Mormon towns. One
hundred and fifty emloyees are needed to con-
duct the business, which amounts annualy to
nearly $5,000,000, and which includes, beside
the salesrooms, a shoe factory, a tannery, a
clothing manufactury and drug store. It was
the intention at first that every member of
the church should be a stockholder. Gradually
the stock has passed into comparativley few
hands, but it is still conducted according to
the same principles. It points with pride to
that fact that it never makes "a corner." Not
long since every store in the city was out of a
certain article, except the Co-op, which sup-
plied the others without advancing the price.
	The city possesses churches of every denomi-
nation, including the Josephites, who are Mor-
mons—with a difference. The St. Paul's
Episcopal church is an attractive sight, being
covered with ivy. The whole business part of 
the city is solid, well-built and handsome.
There are long streets of residences, artistic,
spacious, with large yeards and exquisite flowers
and shrubbery, This way of being independ-
ent of the clouds and making the rain come at
will along the stone canals which thread the
city ensures abundant verdure and fruitage,
especially where the sky is as clear and the sun
as bright as in Utah.
	Liberty Park was the property of Brigham
Young, but was bought of his heirs for public
use. It is a mile around, and of its several
artesian wells, one is decidedly sulphurous, and
is much esteemed.
	The Exposition building, which was ap-
proaching completion, is a fine structure. The
public school buildings are surrounded by
lovely green sward and ornamental trees.
there are but few saloons, and the streets are
noticeably clean. The Mormons are opposed
to the use of liquor and tobacco. They have
no rule against it but their "Words of Wisdom,"
discountenance it, and these are regarded in
all the affairs of life. There were no saloons
in Utah previous to the incoming of the Gen-
tiles. In fact to the absence of these, and
their twin sister, the Salt Lake Tribune, six
years ago apparently attributed the devotion to
thier faith; for it said what was wanted to
educate the Mormon hoodlum was the intro-
duction of the saloon and the brothel. It is a
sorry fact that a belief in the efficiency of
these institutions is still held by the represen-
tatives of this leading paper, for on calling the
attention of one of them to the stand which
had been formerly taken, he replied: "Well, it
has educated them to some extent; it has given
them some good horse sense."
	Hearing from these people, to whom we were
talking temperance and purity, thier laments
that they could not keep the saloon entirely
from their midst, we inquired, "Why not, see-
ing the Mormons are in the majority the in city


[Column 1]

council?" "Because the courts always construe
the law in favor of the saloon." "Then why
not make a law to prohibit, or to enable you to 
prohibit?" was asked, "seeing that the Mor-
mons are in a majority in the legislature." At
last we found the answer in the fact that such
a bill had been passed by the last legislature,
and vetoed by the governor. By special legisla-
tion of Congress, the governor of Utah has an
absolute veto. His will can over ride that of
all the inhabitants in the territory, for from
his veto there is no taking a measure back to
the legislature. A bill relating to city govern-
ment, containing the clause enabling the coun-
cil "to license, regulate, tax or absolutely pro-
hibit the manufacturing, selling, giving away
or disposing of in any manner, any intoxicat-
ing, etc., was passed by a legislature of whom
31 out of 36 were Mormons, and when it went
to the governor, he drew his pen through the
words "absolutely prohibit," and so it became
a law, leaving the friends of temperance of all
faiths powerless to prevent the existence of the
saloon in their midst.
	The only charitable institution we had time
to visit beside the Home referred to in the last
letter, was the day nursery, which had nine-
teen children in its care. This appeared to be
the only benevolent work in which Gentile and
Mormon were united, it being managed by one
lady member from each church, including the
Mormon, of which Mrs. Emily Richards is the
representative. It is used for children of both
classes.
	Great Salt Lake is the "Mecca" of all tour-
ists, and a never-failing delight to the inhabit-
ants of the city. It is thus described in
Picturesque Utah, a lovely art book which has
just been issued from the press of Frank S.
Thayer in Denver, of which the text is by M.
Virginia Donaghe, a Denver lady, and which
is exquisitely illustrated by the albertype pro-
cess from original photographs by C. R. Savage,
a leading artist of Salt Lake City.
	"The sides of the near hills are girded by a
gleaming, unbroken line, and several hundred
feet below is a wider line—these are the water
marks of the great sea which once covered the
region and of which the lake is but the saline,
shrunken remnant. These ruins are made of
countless cobble stones and pebbles, round or
oval, and smooth from the action of the waves.
Below are the very ripple-marks of these an-
cient billows. This old, old lake-bed has been
traced for a distance of 250 miles, and embed-
ded in its forgotten shores have been discovered
large quantities of fresh-water shells; for this
body of water, then as large as Lake Huron,
and covering one fourth of Utah, once had an
outlet: This has been discovered at the head
of Cache Valley, passing out through Red
Rock Gap, thence to the Snake, and so to the
Columbia and Pacific. The upper beach line
is 900 feet above the present level of the lake,
and is even with the outlet. Then during the
changes and conclusions of the geological past,
the lake sank, and became dry, and filled
again, again to be swallowed up, and then yet
again to be a lake. But never could the new
sheet of water attain the level of its former
outlet. Therefore, hemmed in by impassable
barriers, it shrank within itself, and life in its
waters died away. Through constant evapora-
tion, the lake became more blackish—a veri-
table Dead Sea."
	Salt Lake is now more than fifty miles wide,
and a hundred and twenty-five miles long, di-
versified with mountain-top islands, which are
spurs of the Oquirrh and Aqui ranges. The
first description of the lake is given by Wash-
ington Irving, who chronicled the adventures
of Captain Bonneville, who is said to be the
first white man to see it. In 1859 Captain
Stansbury explored it. Fremont sailed it in a
rubber boat, and Kit Carson in a hollow log.
Every body has heard and read of this wonder-

[Column 2]

ful sheet of water, yet it is more strange,
beautiful and fascinating than words can de-
pict. Mrs. Saxon and I saw it under pleasant
circumstances. Although late for the bathing
season, the recent warm weather and the per-
fect sunny day rendered the water very com-
fortable. A party of friends accompanied us
into the water, and speedily initiated us into
the mysteries of floating. Of all the ridiculous
objects that the human frame is capable of
presenting, that of a person with head and feet
only out of water is the most laughable. Yet
who cares for the crowd in the pavilion above
as long as there is enough in the water to di-
vide the attention, and one can enjoy the bliss-
ful sensation of lying upon that briny bed. It
seems almost impossible to believe that even a
novice can rest so easily and completely with
only an occasional movement of the out-
stretched arms to maintain the equilibrium.
Garfield Beach is the finest of all the points
where the lake is used, and here are very fine
accomodations. After the bath we ate our
picnic supper, which was prepared as if by
magic on one of the long tables which are for
the use of visitors, and then we watched the
lake in the glory of the setting sun. That ex-
quisite word-painter before quoted has described
a sunset on the lake, just such a one as we saw,
in such fitting phrase that I quote it for the de-
light of the Tribune readers:
	"Salt Lake has its share in the proverbial
rich beauty of the Rocky Mountain sunset.
Bright and cheery by day, and subtly, sadly
mysterious by moonlight, it is all glorious at
setting sun. Its wide waters are aflame with
lances of scarlet and gold, gleaving the green
expanse, and its mirror reflects every fleck of
rose or band of salmon in the sky, where inter-
spaces of blue still linger. The shining sum-
mits of cloud land are flanked below by the
irradiated mountains; the Black Rock tones the
splendor with its sombre masses, til—evanes-
cent as beautiful—the glory vanishes; shadows
sweep down from the darkening peaks, and
the shimmering liquid plain fades to ashes of
roses."
	As we stood there watching the gulls
fly over the sunlit sea, one of those incidents,
and they are numerous, in the history of the
Mormon people, which led them to believe
they were specially guarded by a divine pro-
vidence, was related to us. During the early
days of the settlement, when the first crop was
growing, and nothing remained between the
colony and starvation during the coming
winter, but this promise of a plentious harvest,
the locusts came upon them in such numbers
as to threaten absolute destruction of every
growing thing. We that have watched the
sun darken with the silvery wings of this de-
vastating foe and the fruitful field become a
desert in a day, can realize with what feeling
these people gazed upon the scene. So far
from home and help, no possibility of com-
municating with the land of plenty, 1800 miles
overland from the supplies, what could save
them in such an hour. They resorted to prayer,
when lo! the west wind brought from the Aqui
mountains beyond the lake the gulls that dwell
there in innumerable quantities, and they set
upon and devoured the grasshoppers before
any considerable damage was done.
		C. B. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

INTERESTING VISIT.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	President Annie L. Ivins requested me to
give you a sketch of our trip to the western
settlements.
	President A. L. Ivins, with her Counselors,
M. B. Eyring and A. C. Woodbury, left St.
George on the 15th of Oct. about 8 o'clock in
the morning. We passed through the Santa

[Column 2]

Clara settlement, as we had visited that settle-
ment a short time ago. We traveled up the
Clara stream, as the road runs through the
stream most of the way to Gunlock; the
scenery is quite romantic. This road is quite
dangerous in stormy weather, owing to floods.
We arrived at Gunlock about 4 o'clock, ex-
pecting to hold meetings with the Relief So-
ciety and Primary. Our notice having been
delayed we had no meeting, as there were
some sick and others very busy.
	16th we started to Pine Valley. About four
miles from Gunlock is the famous Big Hill; it
is a wonder how loaded teams ever get over it.
I have often wished I had the eye of an artist,
that I could sketch some of the scenery in this
mountain region. We arrived at Pine Valley
and held meeting with the Relief Society at
4 o'clock, Sister Slade presiding. In the
evening met with the Primary, Sister Julia
Cox presiding; had a very good meeting.
	17th traveled to Pinto. It rained through
the day, so we met with the Young Ladies in
the evening, and the Relief Society sisters in
with them, Sister Lizzie Harrison presiding.
	18th went on to Hamblin; met with Primary,
Sister Mary Westover presiding. Here they
had not held meetings on account of the death
of some of their brightest children. There are
very few families here, owing to the scarcity of
water through floods. One family, Bro. Cam-
field, lost four children out of five. Sister
Westover chose Sister Tessa Camfield as First
Counselor, and Philena Emmet as her Second
Counselor; Olive Emmet, Secretary, and D. C.
Emmet Assistant Secretary.
	19th went on to Hebron, and met with the
R. S. at 2 o'clock, Sister Hester Pulsipher pre-
siding. The settlement all turned out here.
This settlement labors under a great disadvan-
tage, owing to the flues being washed away that
brought the water to the city. When we were
here last year they talked of moving to the
water, but I believe they concluded to rebuild
the flume. They have nice brick houses, but
quite a number of the people have decided to
move to Colorado. After meeting we drove
over to Bishop Terry's Ranch, where we were
kindly entertained by Sister Terry.
	20th traveled on thirty-five miles to Panacca.
Here we left Utah and went into Nevada; at
the summit we crossed the line staked out for a
railroad. I think about ten or fifteen miles
from Panacca there is no water on this route
till we get about ten miles from Panacca.
Here we were kindly entertained by Bishop
Lee and pleasant family.
	21st we met with the Sabbath School, Bro.
Samuel Lee presiding. He kindly turned it
over to the Primary; had a very nice meeting;
at 4 o'clock we met with the Relief Society.
22nd returned to Bishop Terry's ranch;
23rd traveled to Sister Camfield's and
had dinner; then went on to Bro. Frank
Foster's where we were kindly entertained by
their daughter. 24th returned home after
being out ten days and traveled about two
hundred miles.
	Trusting we have done some good for the
advancement of God's kingdom upon the
earth, ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I
remain, your sister in the Gospel.
		ANN C. WOODBURY


Harriet Beecher Stowe has made a most re-
markable recovery after a long illness which
even her nearest friends deemed fatal.
	Queen Victoria does not share the general
opinion that the gift of an opal is likely to
bring ill-luck to its owner. She has presented
each of her daughters, on their marriage, with
a parure of opals and diamonds. Her influence,
and that of her numerous offspring is said to
be doing much to rehabilitate the opal in the
good opinion of the public.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO LOUISE.

I sing of a gown that was old ere 'twas new;
'Twas commenced, I believe, in eighteen eighty-two;
		Aunt Mell she began,
		Upon grandma's plan,
To make for her niecc, (every stitch was by hand,
From whipping of puff to hemming of bend,)
		A dress, if you please,
		For little Louise;
A dimpled young darling, who then was perhaps,
The age of eighteen months; and who took daily naps.
		I said she began it;
		Some unlucky planet,
Interrupted the making, when 'twas but cut out;
What with clubs and with topics, and gadding about,
	The gown was neglected and lay in a basket;
		Her mamma did not ask,
		Mell, to finish the task,
Being quite too polite to suggest "'twould not fit
If she waited much longer ere finishing it;"
		But she thought, I am sure,
		The making a failure,
	And wondered what planet had seen fit to blast it,
		But ah! Well, a day,
		How time slips away,
	'Twas two years—yes, three,—I'm ashamed to confess it,
	Ere this gown it was finished, from neckband to gusset,
And time; without warning, had played us such tricks,
	Louise had outgrown the original fashion,
	The skirt must be lengthened, the belt have a sash on,
As years had elapsed and the child was near six.
	
		So, at length, Auntie Mell,
		(For the gown it was well)
	Remov'd to the mountains, in seclusion to dwell;
And thinking the quiet would aid her endeavor
To finish this gown, (better late, friends, than never)
		She "fell to" again,
		With might and with main.
	She stitched every seam, and hemmed every ruff,
	She scratched all the gathers, and whipped every puff,
'Tis finished, at length, to the very last stitch,
Ev'ry button is fast, and I scarcely know which
	To admire the most, the patience or pattern;
	One thing's plain, in sewing, Aunt Mell is no slattern.
		The most critical eye
		Would fail to descry,
          A stitch to put in, take out, or gather awry.
		The victory's won!
		At last it is done!
	And I verilly believe, never under the sun,
	Was a gown, so long making, so early begun.

These rhymes are indited in love and contrition,
To my niece; who never, by voice, or petition,
Or spoiling her beauty by a tear or a frown,
Has entreated her Auntie "to finish that gown!"
	Murray, Oct. 27th, 1888.


[Column 1]

WANDERINGS.

	In wandering where one seeks forgetfulness,
and so far as possible avoids all commonplaces,
it is sweet to glide leisurely along such rivers as
the Rhine, where every stone and mound has a
gaunt or thrilling legend; or to climb an alpine
mountain, where every step must be taken with
caution, and every backward look fortells a
danger, or to travel to some spot where great-
ness dwelt and tales of those famous in the
pages of history, whether as monarchs, warriors,
or geniuses are told. In his works we forget
an author lived and breathed and loved and
died, we study not the man, but his productions,
and in after years when we chance in our
travels over the earth to seek the early homes
of greatness, little do we learn of the man's
true life; they tell us, perhaps, that here he
lived, or here he wrote, or here he died and
there he lies buried. A stone marks the spot,
and in a neighboring town, may be, a statue
stands in memory to his greatness, or in a
neigboring church or abbey can be found a
monument to his fame. The truly great need
no monuments, their works live forever in the
hearts and minds of the people. What could
be built to Shakespeare's memory that could

[Column 2]

speak to us of his fame, and there are others;
each country has its own. It is not the country
that attracts and draws a people to wander
from native shores, it is that country's genius.
True, some lands far exceed others in beauty
and lovliness, yet each has its own peculiar
phases. We admire Ireland for its verdant
beauty, and Scotland for its highlands and
rocks and lakes, England for its wondrous
cities, its magnificent parks, its forests and
"green lanes," Norway for its pines and firs,
Switzerland for her stupendous, snow-clad
mountains and crystal lakes, Italy for her
glorious sunsets, her delightful climate, but
these things alone do not render countries great.
Nature has been so impartial that her bounties
have been bestowed in every clime, and it needs
more than a beautiful sunset, an exhilerating
air or a fine mountain scene to tempt man to
wander over miles of land and sea, it is the
romance of a land that renders it interesting,
that lures the stranger to her shore.
	When we enter a land where any author
lived we look for the homely details of that
author's life; we visit the home where he was
born, we walk in the paths he trod; we cull a
flower or a leaf from his grave, and we ask,
"What of him? What know you of his early
life?" Who would think of going to Scotland
and not visiting the home of her favorite bard,
Robert Burns, and with that name how in-
stinctively do we couple the name of his High-
land Mary. When we turn from Shakespeare's
home, how naturally we wander towards Ann
Hathaway's cottage, and after visiting his
grave what more can be done than to seek for
her's. Yearly hundreds of travelers go over
the same hallowed spots, think over the past of
great men's lives, and as they stoop to pluck a
flower, perhaps a few drop a tear over the
graves of their early loves, whom they know
to be the themes of these great men's songs.
How little does the world know of these maids
who so enjoyed their confidences, and may be
had the happiness to assist, or at least suggest
with some of the works that now give us such
delight. Of the men themselves, everything
remains; they have become to the world through
their genius immortal; of the women what—a
grave—only a grave, yet that grave is a
memory, not because the one who lies beneath
achieved for herself any greatness, but because
she was of greatness the beloved.
	If England had no other fame more than
that she was the home of Shakespeare, that
alone would be sufficient to draw the stranger
to her home, for in himself is he not a study?
Italy attracts for many things, but she needs
none other when she claims a Dante for her
son, and Germany ranks with England and
Italy, great among greatest, for she has in
Goethe a genius as great as either. And these
are the men of whom men write; that each was
in himself a department of knowledge, one be-
longing to the medeival world, one to the
great epoch of the Renaisence, and one to
modern times, and that a study of Dante,
Shakespeare or Goethe would be worthy the
best seasons of a man's life. And these men
loved and were like others, softened by the
gentle influences of womankind.
	As we traverse the broad country of Ger-
many on every side in all her largest cities and
in almost every hamlet, the eye rests on monu-
ments and statues erected to the memory of
her greatest genius—Goethe—art has excelled
itself in honor to his fame, but there lies in a
more touching memory, a monument to his
affections near the little village of Sessenheim
stands on a wooded hill a pretty arbour, where
the young poet spent many hours in happy
converse with his early love, a place for that
very fact now almost a sanctuary, where the
many admirers of Goethe make their pilgrim-
ages, and a few wander farther on that beautiful
way where the mountains of the Black Forest

[Column 3]

cast their sombre shadows o'er the valley of the
placid Neckar to the little cemetery of Meissen-
heim to stand by the tomb of Frederica Brion
and indulge in fanciful thoughts of this young
German maid whose name is now almost for-
gotten but, who once shared the affections of so
great a man.

	Man's greatness, fame and goodly deeds
		Sweep the earth like a triumphant wave;
	But his heart, his dreams, his inner life—
		Lie buried in the grave.

			CAMELIA.


LUCK IN HORSESHOES.  

	The old superstition of nailing a horseshoe
over the door of a house as a protecrion against
evil spirits and an assurance of good luck is as
widely spread in the United States as it is in
England or Ireland. It also prevails among
nearly all Teutonic and Scandinavian races
and flourishes largely in the East and West
Indies and Hindoostan. There are three
elements united in the horseshoe—in the first
place it is crescent shaped; secondly, it is a
portion of a horse, and lastly it is made of iron.
Popalar superstition has long endowed iron
with protecting qualities. During the time of
the plague in Rome the inhabitants of the
Eternal City drove nails in the walls of their
houses as a safeguard against the dread dis-
ease. When the Arabs in the desert are over-
taken by the deadly simoon they seek succor
from heaven by crying,  "Iron! iron!" Celtic,
Finnish and Welsh superstitions all agree that
against witchcraft iron is considered the only
guard. Custom even recites that it has always
been considered a good omen to find old iron,
and particularly to find an old horseshoe. In
the mythology of England horses were and are
to this day looked upon as luck-bringers. In
some parts of England nowadays it is still
thought that many forms of disease can be
cured by burning a horse alive. A horse's
hoof placed under an invalids' bed is con-
sidered a specific for many complaints in the
north of Scotland. Many years ago in Ireland,
so it is said, upon the death of a horse its feet
and legs were hung up in the house, and even
 the hoofs are kept sacred. All of which, it is
claimed, serve as a preventative of ill luck or
disease.
	Even in New York, among a certain class,
the horseshoe may be seen nailed up over many
a house or shop door. The well-known song
which was sung by Edward Harrigan a few
years ago made a lasting impression, and
served to remind many of the luck attending
old iron shoes. One of the stanzas was:

	"There's a story that is told in Irish history,  
		Far beyond the days of King Boru,
	That luck will surely always wait upon you 
		If you pick upon the road a horse's shoe."

	On account of its form historians state that
the qualities formerly accorded to the crescent
have been transferred to the horseshoe. The
Chinese build their tombs at the present day
in a semicircular form like a horseshoe, and the
Moore use it in their architecture. Lord
Nelson nailed a horseshoe to the mast of his
flagship Victory, and guarded it as if it had
been a citadel.—Selected.


London, Nov. 3.—Lord Tennyson is seri-
ously ill from a rheumatic attack. The Gov-
ernment physicians pronounced him last
Thursday as recovering. Yesterday he had a
critical relapse.
	The Empress of Japan has established a
college for women, to be superintended by a
committee of foreign ladies. Two of these are
Americans, two English, and the other two
French and German respectively.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	November 15, 1888.


[Column 1]

THE DEL MONTE & MONTEREY.

	From San Francisco along the Southern Pacific
line to Monterey the scenery is very picturesque.
The first station is Ocean View, a handsome
little place. Passing on through small towns
with pretty little cottages, trees, vines and shrub-
bery, one comes upon San Mateo, a town older
and larger than most of the others and which is
spoken of as a place desirable to see, but one
has no chance to observe much from a railway
train in motion and the stopping is almost always in
an uninteresting part of the town. On and on
again, we arrive at Menlo Park where there are
very handsome grounds laid out and beautified,
that are a delight to the eye of the traveler.
Further on is Mayfield, which one would presume
has the appearance of May all the year round,
flowers always fresh, and leaves green; then after
two more waits at commonplace towns we
reach Santa Clara, where there are some large
and handsome residences and grounds, and the
fruits are very fine.
	The next place is San Jose, and here we had
decided to stop off a few hours, wait for the next
train, and hunt up some cousins. Here we
walked around up and down making inquiries etc.
for as we had heard much of the fame of San
Jose, we were anxious to see for ourselves. It is we
are told, a town of about 30,000 or more inhabit-
ants, many of them very wealthy. An elegant
new City Hall has been built recently, and a large
hotel called the Melville; there are street cars
running there, and altogether, it seemed to be a
prosperous and thriving city. We dined at the
Lick House, and indeed felt anxious to stay over
and go up to the Lick Observatory, but, learning
that it would require one whole day's time, we
denied ourselves the pleasure, as time was an ob-
ject in making this journey.
	After dinner we started out again and succeeded
in finding one of the relatives we had been search-
ing for; we had to introduce ourselves, of course,
but we were graciously received notwithstanding
we were from Utah. The lady soon harnessed
her horse and went with us to what is known
there as "The Willows," just at the outskirts of
the town, where there is a great deal of fruit-dry-
ing and packing done. We were looking for Mrs.
Marilla M. Ricker, of Washington, we learned
from her cousin, a sweet Quakeress, she had
gone down to Santa Barbara, so we left our
cards and drove back to the centre of the town.
Mrs. Reese pointed out many places of interest,
and drove out to the district or streets occupied by
the Spanish Mexicans, so we had a chance to see
and hear something about their life and habits,
from one well acquainted with her subject. Hear-
ing and seeing reminded the writer strongly of
Helen Jackson's story Ramona.

[Column 2]

	After returning with Mrs. Reese to her home
we conversed upon current topics, and discussed
woman-suffrage and equal rights etc.,
	Miss Olive Reese an Ohio girl from Willoughby
was quite an advocate of advanced ideas. but
seemed to think California people were scarcely
prepared for woman's advancement. She had
been trying to organize societies of the W. C. T. U.,
and had met with some opposition, and a great
deal of ridicule and sarcasm. We took tea with
our new found cousin and family and immediately
after bade good-bye, and proceeded on our way to
the train, arriving just in time to catch the evening
train for Monterey. From San Jose to Monterey
the ride was uninteresting on account of the
darkness, and as we were very weary it added
much to our discomfort; therefore, we rejoiced
when we came in sight of the Del Monte station.
When we allighted and filed into the Hotel buss
along with about twelve or fifteen others as tired
seemingly, as we were. Entering by a few wide
steps under a portico, we were ushered into a
large hall where an immense open fire-place was
blazing with light from huge pine logs on large
old-fashioned fire-dogs. The brilliancy of the
gas light from the chandelier added to the cheer-
ful effect, and we waited in silence for our turn to
register; as we were only two ladies traveling
alone we were the last served, but finally our turn
came; and after some inquiries as to prices etc.
we registered from Salt Lake City. The clerk,
in a business like manner, informed us that dinner
would be over at eight, and it was then half past
seven; so we took the elevator to the third
story, hurridly made our evening toilet and de-
scended to the dining-room. We were seated at
one of the tables with some of our fellow-passen-
gers, and as one invariably does among strangers,
we began to take notes, in a quiet way, of the
party. There was an elderly man and his wife,
some years younger, which I knew the moment I
saw them, and a boy of perhaps eight or nine,
two young women and a gentleman with iron,
gray hair; they were a very jolly crowd, and evi-
dently come to have a good time. Our idea was
that the old gentleman was entertaining the other
party, who were having a good deal of fun at his
expense, in more than the way of eating and
drinking, and drink they did. There were not
more than fifty guests in the house, and none of
them seemed to be permanently located, all tran-
sients. That night there was a jollification at
Monterey, which is about a mile or two farther on,
and the fireworks and the cannon kept up a
tremendous nolse all night.
	Early on the following morning we went down to
breakfast where we were seated at the same table
with the same people and had still another oppor-
tunity for observation. They have elegant silver
at the Del Monte, each piece marked Del
Monte which we did not quite understand, and
no one seemed able to explain. After breakfast
we went out upon the spacious and elegant grounds
which one cannot possibly describe to do them
justice, one must see for himself. It would be
easy to imagine ourselves, for the moment, in
fairy-land; on every side are the most beautiful
flowers, in blossom, in every variety of form, hue
and shades. Trees magnificent in height and
grandeur of appearance; walks and roadways
laid out artistically winding around, summer
houses, boat-houses, bath-houses and large
hostelry, all in the most perfect order, yet bewil-
dering to the newcomer. After wandering about
for a short time we arranged for a horse and
buggy to drive to Pacific Grove and along the
far-famed seventeen mile beach. Mrs. Whitney
being a good horsewomen, we decided it would
be better than hiring a carriage and driver, who
would, perhaps, tell us more than we wanted to
know, as some guides do, and we preferred our
own company.
	We drove out past the bathing resorts, and

[Column 3]

soon reached the old town of Monterey, a quaint
old place indeed it is, and well worth seeing.
Three miles further up hill all the way and in sight
of the glorious sea, we come to a delightful grove,
with some small and neat cottages and other large
and handsome residences. The town is laid off
in streets, though it appears the arrangement is
rather new. There is a church there, Catholic it
seemed, as the name was St. Joseph. The houses
are built clear down almost to the very shore of
the sea or bay, and those so near must have the
wierd music of the waves constantly. O it was a
grand and inspiring scene to view, even from the
distance, but when we alighted and walked away
to the point of a rocky cliff, the effect was beyond
expression; we were just meditating descending
upon a large flat rock that lay part way down the
steep ascent towards the sea in order to hear "the
music of the waves" more distinctly in the solemn
silence that surrounded us here, when a great
wave dashed fiercely over it as though it would
wash it from its very foundation, and so we aban-
doned the idea, as we did not wish to be swept out
into the great billowy tossing sea. We gazed and
thought, scarcely speaking to each other, until we
felt we must go on our way again. Resuming our
ride we drove up a long hill through what was
really more a wood than a grove, stopping once or
twice on our way to ask some questions about the
direction to take. In the woods we met a gentle-
man who seemed inclined to talk, and finally we
learned that he had visited Salt Lake and stopped
a few weeks during the past summer, at the
Spencer House. We drove on through miles of
woods where we could hear the roar of the ocean
surging and moaning, and the sighing of cypress
and pines, and we recalled all we had ever read
of the sea, but nothing we could remember seemed
to equal the reality; everything was quiet, no
carriages were near us, though we had seen one
or two on our way, and the absence of human life
made the effect of the sea and the forest more
impressive to one whose very soul was wrought to
an exultation of feeling by the solemnity and
grandeur of the hour amid such haunts of nature.
All that the poets had ever written, all the songs
that had ever been sung, sank into insignificance
for the time, and only one of the verses of the
"Apostrophe to the Ocean" seemed at all expres-
sive of the consciousness felt, which could find no
language.

	"There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
		There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
	There is society where none intrudes,	
		By the lone sea, and music in its roar."

	At last after a lonely ride, but one full of the
most exquisite melody of feeling, we reached what
is known as "Cypress Point," a neck of land
reaching out into the open sea upon a high bank
that carriages may drive upon and turn, but we
walked, and gazed our fill, in part, for who could
tire of such wondrous and awful grandeur; here
we could hear the roaring of the sea lions in the
distance, on the rocks; we looked down where
the shore or bank curved hundreds of feet below;
a carriage full of guests from the hotel drew up
while we were there, but we knew they had no
feelings akin to ours, from their very manner;
they were off again in great haste, while we lin-
gered as long as we dared, to take in all that the
heart could contain, of the divine rhythm and
melody of the "murmuring sea." On our way
back to the Del Monte we drove past the Chinese
fishermen's huts, a very curious place, unlike any-
thing else we have seen here; there were quan-
titles of shells and curiosities for sale, little
Chinese girls soliciting us to buy, but as we did
not want to be overburdened with baggage, while
away from our lodgings, we did not invest in many,
though we afterwards wished we had as we had
no such opportunity again. After dinner at the
Del Monte, we asked to be shown through the


house, and the clerk sent a hall-boy to show us
the entire building. On the same floor with the
entrance hall on the south, leading along a wide
hall that opens to another entrance is the ladies'
billiard room (now being nicely frescoed) and the
ladies' parlor; the parlor is very elaborately fitted
up, and a bright wood fire showed off the mantel
and brass furnishings handsomely. On the oppo-
site side of the wide hall opening to a portico on the
south is the new annex, which contains suits of
rooms on the first floor and also on the second
and above single rooms in the third story, the house
itself is peculiar in its shape, and has more the
appearance of a large pavilion than a hotel. It is
said to accommodate about 750 or 800 guests. At
present there are very few in the building, and we
were told that on the previous Sunday there were
only five persons, that it was not the season yet,
but that the house would be filled before Christmas.
Everything inside was in good taste and in keeping
with the outward appearance as nearly as possible,
but we cannot help expressing more admiration
for the beauty of the grounds around the Del
Monte than for all the elegance, luxury, glitter and
display within. It must be a charming place to
resort to in summer time for restfulness, where in
a few moments walk from the hotel one may find
the cooling and grateful shade of those magnificent
trees.
	Early the following morning we were awakened
by the electric bell, and soon after we drove to the
station, only a few rods off, and with other travel-
ers awaited the coming of the train. It was
barely light, a solitary bird or two were flying on
the opposite side where the shrubbery was heavy
on a hillside, and the passengers walked impatiently
up and down the paths around, or sat on the
benches outside, as there was only a sort of min-
iature depot, just large enough for the clerks to
stand and attend to the necessary business.
	The ride was dull for the sun shone not. The
first station out was Castoroville, a little village;
where those around the depot seemed to have a
sort of Spanish look, only a few minutes waiting
and a few miles farther on, we reach Pajaso, then
we must change cars for Santa Cruz. In this
part of the country the people cultivate straw-
berries for the markets; we also saw miles, it
seemed to us, of rasberry bushes. The land is
worth from $500 to $600 an acre; the season for
these small fruits is nearly over, as the rainy sea-
son is daily expected to set in.
	Our next article will be the trip to Santa Cruz
and the big trees.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

VISIT TO EMERY STAKE.

	In company with Sister Jane S. Richards, we
made a visit to Emery Stake in October last from
this city to Price on the D. & R. G. train. We had
an interesting conversation on the way with the
Rev. Wm. Irvine and wife; the gentleman is a
celebrated divine, of New York City, and had been
west in the interest of the home mission work of
the Presbyterian Church. His wife was a very
refined and cultivated lady, who had seen much of
the world, and could converse intelligently of
foreign lands, works of art abroad, and natural 
scenery of those older countries, a woman one
would always recollect as having said something
worth remembering; she had called at the office of
the EXPONENT, when we talked for a couple of
hours, most of the time upon "Mormonism." She
had heard all the dreadful tales that are told con-
cerning our people, and had evidently come to Utah
filled with prejudice. I explained many principles,
and related experiences to illustrate the faith and
sincerity of the Mormon women, and especially
dwelt upon the freedom they enjoyed, and the
happiness that existed in families previous to the 
enforcement of the Edmund's law.
	The natural scenery through Castle Gate ab-

[Column 2]

sorbed our entire attention after reaching that
part of the journey; it was a time of the day that
hightened the beauty of the "everlasting hills,"
and the glory of the setting sun reflected upon
the peaks and craggs was something ever to be
remembered. One who has not seen the natural
scenery upon this wonderful road has missed an
entertainment interesting and effective. The men
who built this railroad deserve great credit for the
enterprise they have shown in doing such a won-
derful work, in the midst of a desert land sandy
and barren, and for the pleasure to the many
travelers in natural beauty and grandeur, they
deserve unbounded praise. It is too grand for
words, and there is no language adequate to its
expression.
	Arriving at Price, we went direct to the Bishop's
house, and failing to find any one at home, we in-
quired for the President of the Relief Society.
Sister Richards was much gratified to find in her
one of her old time Ogden acquaintances, and it
was quite opportune for we needed rest and
refreshment, and some one to conduct us further
upon our way. We were shown every attention
possible by Brother and Sister Cox and their
daughter Sarah; their hospitality can never be
forgotten. Several friends and neighbors came in
through the course of the evening, and the time
passed quickly and agreeably.
	The following morning we took leave of Sister
Cox, whose duties would not permit her to attend
the Sisters' Conference, and in company with
Brother Cox and daughter and Sister Pace, we
drove away towards Huntington, the next settle-
ment. The ride was a very tedious one, over
such dreadful roads, and a perfectly barren tract
of country. One traveling there would wonder
how the people subsisted, for there seemed little
or no vegetation. We reached Huntington about
noon. This is rather a more prosperous looking
place, but all was so quiet we soon saw there was
no conference being held there, as we had ex-
pected. However at the house of a friend we
were most warmly welcomed, and our team and
our party carefully cared for. We sent for the 
President of the Relief Society, whom we after-
wards learned was away from home, but we
succeeded in seeing one of her counselors. An
appointment was given out for a meeting in the
evening, at which time the meeting house was
well filled; there were many brethren as well as
sisters in the audience, and the larger number
were young men. We slept at the house of Sister
Sophia Pulsipher Burgess, and early in the morn-
ing pursued our way to Orangeville, where we
arrived in time for the Conference of the Primary
Association, the first one that had been held in
Emery Stake. Here we met with Sister Josie E.
Childs, First Counselor in the Relief Society of
Emery Stake, and with whom we felt somewhat
acquainted, having had some correspondence
heretofore. We were greatly disappointed to
learn that the Relief Society Conference was
already over; however, the Primary Conference
was a very good one, and we felt a good spirit
prevailing in the meeting. Miss Bessie Harvard
was nominated as Secretary of the Primary
Association of Emery Stake and sustained by
unanimous vote. We dined sumptuously at the
residence of Brother Reed, and started off directly
to attend the Conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. at
Castle Dale, drove straight to the meeting house,
which was crowded with people; many young men
were present, and two of the leading brethren
from Salt Lake City. The meeting was a very
good one, the brethren occupying part of the
time, and as soon as the Conference adjourned
we were again upon our way towards Huntington.
We lodged at the residence of Bishop Pulsipher,
whose wife is also counselor to the President in
the Stake organization of the Relief Society. She
was also an old-time friend of Sister Richards,
which made it pleasant for us both. The morning

[Column 3]

found us again on our way back to Price, over the
dreadful roads, but our great consolation was we
had such a careful charioteer. We arrived in 
Price in time to take dinner and keep our appoint-
ment made for a meeting there in the evening on
our return. Here as in Huntington and Castle
Dale there were a large proportion of young men
in the audience. The following morning we bade
our host and hostess, the Bishop and others good-
bye, and took the train for Salt Lake. Passing
through Castle Gate we had another opportunity
of admiring the magnificent grandeur of the rocky
cliffs, and contemplating again the wondrous works
of the Creator of the Universe. This was the
first visit either Sister Richards of the writer had
paid to Emery County, but it was a very pleasant
one; we were cordially welcomed everywhere,
and no pains spared to make our visit satisfactory
to all. The sisters so far removed from the centre
Stake of Zion feel that they need encouragement 
and instruction, and they really appreciate the
counsel and teaching of those who go as home
missionaries among them. Their labors there to
subdue the desert and make the waste places 
habitable, that the Saints may dwell therein, are
commendable indeed. The country looks barren,
unfruitful and forbidden, and only people of enter-
prise with undaunted courage, would ever think
they could endure the hardships incident to such
an undertaking. Success to their efforts in making
the desolate places desirable homes for the people


OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.

OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF
THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

To Officers and Members of the various branches
	of Relief Society in the Church of Jesus Christ
	of Latter-day Saints.

	In the dispensation of the providence of God,
our honored and revered president, Eliza R.
Snow Smith, after a long life of remarkable activity
and usefulness, has been taken to another sphere.
She died in the Lord, (in the faith of the Gospel)
and her works follow her.
	Last April, Counselor Zina D. Young was
called and sustained by the general conference as
President of the Relief Society. Unavoidable
circumstances called her to Canada, which pre-
vented the completion of the organization until
Oct. 14th, when, with the approval of the presid-
ing council of the Church, Sister Jane S. Richards
was chosen first counselor, and Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith, second counselor.
	We join our sisters and co-laborers everywhere
in rendering thanks to Almighty God for the mani-
fold blessings that have attended Relief Society
labors, and we unitedly implore His continued
blessing and guidance.
	We have not called ourselves to positions of
trust and responsibility. But having been called
in the order of the Priesthood, we desire honor-
ably to fill our positions, and to this end we ask
the blessing, confidence and aid of the Apostle-
ship, Presidents of Stakes and Bishops, whom we
ever feel to sustain, and with whom we wish to har-
monize in our labors of love and blessing.
	With the co-operation of President Woodruff
and council we anticipate holding a general con-
ference, when we hope to meet representative
women from all the Stakes and settlements to re-
ceive instructions and discuss the best methods of
extending the benefits and blessings pertaining to
our special departments of labor.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG, President.
	JANE S. RICHARDS, First Counselor.
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH Second Counselor.
		SARAH M. KIMBALL, Secreatary.
			Salt Lake City, Nov. 13, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

INTERESTING JOURNEY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would send you a synopsis of
our trip to conference, which was held at
Monticello, Utah, last month, as it might prove
interesting to some of your readers, who, like
myself, have been raised in the city, and accus-
tomed to going no further than the Tabernacle
to attend conference.
	As my husband could not very well leave
home, it was decided that I should go, and I
was particularly anxious to do so, for the
reason that my two brothers (one of whom
had been here two years, and the other ten
months), were going home to Salt Lake on a
visit, and I wanted to go as far as Monticello
with them, so arrangements were made for me
to go with a Bro. and Sister B.
	Now, although I was desirous of going, I
was on the point of giving up the idea several
times, for it seemed such an undertaking to
travel ninety miles by team, and I am afraid if
it had not been for the boys I should have
backed out at the "eleventh hour," but they
persisted in saying it would be such a good
chance to see the country, and the trip would
do me good; so, feeling very much like a
martyr, I said, "Yes, I will go," and the morn-
ing of the 22nd found me with valise and
lunch basket packed ready for the ordeal.
The weather was anything but inspiring, for it
had rained all night, and was still raining, and
the mud was ankle deep. Just about the time
Bro. B. and Co. should put in an appearance,
I hear my brother say, "Why, there are Bro.
B's horses!" and sure enough there they are;
they have strayed from home during the night,
and are about four miles from where they are
wanted. Just as my brother has started after
them to take them back, Bro. B's boy comes
along after them, and a pretty tramp he has
had through the mud.
	I take things quite coolly now, for I know
they will not be after me for some time to come,
so pick up the last Deseret News and scan its
pages o'er, to see how matters are going on at
home. While I sit reading, three wagons be-
longing to our company go by, and about
eleven o'clock my wagon comes along, so my
little girl and I say good-bye to "papa" and
"brother" and creep under the wagon cover
into the back end of the wagon, by Grandma
P. (another passenger), I feeling sure that by
night I shall be as "sick as a dog" with bilious
headache. We have not traveled more than a
mile before the clouds roll back and the sun
shines out beautifully, and continues to do so
the whole trip.
	Our first stop is made about 3 o'clock, at
Margon's saw mill; here we overtake the other
wagons. The symptoms of sick headache
have left me by this time, and I am hungry
enough to do justice to my dinner. After
dinner we all start out together. Our journey
lies through a pleasant strip of country, and
over a very good road. About sundown we
come to a Mr. Johnson's place, situated near
the Dolores River. This is the first house we
have seen since leaving Margon's; it is quite a
nice place, and is owned by a stock man.
About two miles further on we conclude to
camp for the night, and soon all hands are
busy, the men taking care of the horses, pull-
ing sagebrush and making fires, and the
women getting supper. I am a "green hand" at
cooking on a camp fire, so try to be useful by
taking care of Sister B's baby; feel more at
home in that line. As I sit there taking in the
scene, I am reminded very forcibly of that
long journey across the plains, when I was
but little older than my little daughter, and I
look at her and wonder if in twenty-five years
from now she will be able to remember this trip
as clearly as I do that.

[Column 2]

	While supper is getting ready I will tell you
who some of the members of our party are.
That pleasant looking man, holding the frying
pan over the fire, is our Bishop, and the one
who stands by his side, looking as though he
was absorbed in a "brown study," is his brother
William, one of the Stake Presidency; those
two women a few feet beyond, unpacking that
provision box, are their wives; a little farther
on in the circle sits a pale-faced, dark-eyed
woman, that is the President of the Relief
Society, and—well, supper is ready, and I
could not describe them all, for there are
twenty-six men, women and children, and a
happy little crowd we are as we sit around the
camp fire, cracking good-natured jokes at each
other's expense, relating scraps of personal ex-
perience, or discussing the principles of the
Gospel. About nine o'clock it is proposed
that we have prayers, so that those who wish
may retire. Peculiar feelings thrill through
my being as I kneel down in that lonely spot,
with the beautiful moonlight shining down up-
on us, while we offer up the gratitude of our
hearts to the Giver of every good and perfect
gift, for His loving watchcare that has been
over us during the day, and implore a continua-
tion of the same over our little band, and that
it may extend to the dear ones left at home,
and my heart is filled with thanksgiving for
the blessed privilege of being associated with
the people of God.
	The next morning we were up bright and
early, and are soon on our way again, and
travel fifteen miles before dinner. About four
o'clock in the afternoon we pass Alkali Springs,
and from the taste of the water I should say
they were rightly named. After leaving there
the road is rather rough and hilly, and in order
to make it lighter on the animals, we get out
and walk up the worst places. During the
afternoon we travel for miles through dry
timber, that has been killed by fires, and we
think what a prize it would be if only situated
near to some of our Utah towns. At seven
o'clock we arrive at Dove Creek. Here on a
little spot as green and level as a lawn, and
surrounded by hills, we camp. Some of us
not feeling very well to-night, probably the
effects of change of water, but it proves to be
nothing serious.
	Friday morning we are on the road again
at an early hour, and are not sorry that to-day
will bring us to our destination. About half-
past ten we cross the State line, and after an
absence of two years and a half, I once more
breathe the air of Utah. We are now near-
ing Piute Springs, and when almost there we
pass a grave, close by the roadside. Some one
says it is the grave of a man who was found
dead at one of the houses at the Springs, and
that sets one to wondering who he was, where
he came from, whether he has a mother or a
wife living, and if so whether they ever learned
what became of him. Some friendly hand
has covered the grave with flat stones, and
stood one at the head. Well, here we are at
the Springs; there are two or three log cabins
here, and I am surprised to see a woman and
child emerge from one of them, for I supposed
none but men lived in such a wild, out of the
way place. The water here is the best we
have had since leaving home. We fill up the
kegs and water the horses, for we will have to
make a dry camp at noon. About half-past
four p.m. we begin to strain our eyes to catch
a glimpse of Monticello, for we are almost
there, and pretty soon we can discern a build-
ing, which proves to be the meeting house, and
then four or five more log houses and two or
three tents come into sight, and these make up
the town, which is not more than six months
old. In that short time, the few people that
are there, besides building their houses, have
fenced a field of 380 acres, put in their crops,
and done considerable work on the water ditch.

[Column 3]

The town is very pleasantly situated, and in a
few years, if all is well, will be a fine place.
As we approach the houses the folks come out
to greet us, among the rest Grandma P's
daughter, a former resident of Mancos, who
has been here about a month; she is very much
pleased to see us all. Our team and the
Bishop's drive down to her place. After clean-
ing ourselves up and eating supper, we attend
choir practice, which is held at one of the
neighbors'.
	The next day conference commences; it is
held in the new meeting house, which  is not
yet completed, for there is no floor, and the
seats are only temporary; but the Spirit of the
Lord is there, and we have an enjoyable time.
In the evening a number of us are invited to
Bro. Walton's to supper. After supper others
of the visitors drop in, and we spend a very
pleasant evening in listening to songs, recita-
tions, etc. During the evening two young 
ladies sing, "Must I leave the old home,
mother?" which touches a tender spot in my
heart, and I steal out in the moonlight to in-
dulge in thoughts of home and mother, and
the dear ones who dwell in the "City of the
Saints."
	Sunday there are three meetings, as the
Y. M. M. I. A. hold a meeting in the evening.
	Monday the Relief Society meets at half-
past nine a.m., the Y. L. M. I. A. at half-past
twelve, and P. A. at three o'clock, and thus
ends our conference. The young folks think
they must have a dance in the evening to
finish up with, so a floor is laid down in one of
the unfinished houses, and their desire is
granted. The most of the older ones are glad
to go to bed and get rested, ready for an early
start home on the morrow.
	Tuesday morning all are on the move at an
early hour, and soon after breakfast we bid
good-bye to all and start for home.
	Our journey thither need not be described,
as it was similar to the one going out; suffice it
to say, we reached home in safety, well satisfied
with our trip.
		L. M. W.
	Mancos, Col., September 28, 1888.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., & P. A. REPORTS.

	(Minutes of the Relief Society conference of
Sanpete Stake, held at Ft. Green, Sept. 14,
1888. Prest. M. A. Hyde presiding.)
	Singing, prayer, singing. M. A. Hyde
spoke. Felt thankful for the opportunity of
again beholding the faces of her sisters in con-
ference assembled.
	"The last time we met here we had with us
our Prest. Sister Eliza, but since, she has been
called to labor in a higher sphere, and others
have been chosen to fill her place. Much de-
pends upon the spirit of the congregation what
kind of meetings we have. God is always
willing and ready to bless His daughters as
well as His sons if they will but seek Him
earnestly and prayerfully, and they will re-
ceive blessings far beyond their anticipations."
	Statistical and Financial reports read. Ver-
bal reports were given from Prests. and repre-
tentatives of Ft. Green, Mayfield, Mt. Pleasant,
Spring City, Ephraim and Manti; showing that
the sisters were always willing, ready and on
hand to do whatever was required of them in
providing for the sick, emigrating the poor,
storing wheat, raising silk etc. etc.,
	(Sister Precinda L. Kimball was next to ad-
dress the conference.) Was very thankful to
be with us it being her first visit to Sanpete.
Had been with the Saints in every move; been
through every trial and hardship that they
had passed through, but had never felt to mur-
mur or complain. (In times of scarcity and
famine she had prayed to God to take away
her appetite so she could give to those who suf-


[Column 1]

fered.) Wondered if it was a judgement again
coming on us as the crops had not yielded in
full; "we should live very near unto God, be
humble and prayerful every day of our lives,
that this judgement might pass us by.")
	Spoke of the great blessing the Relief So-
cieties were to the Priesthood. Was very much
pleased to see the plainness here among the
people; hoped they would continue so. Ad-
vised parents to make their homes pleasant
and attractive and keep their children home at
night as they knew not the wickedness and sin
that is going on in our midst. Hoped the
young girls would be modest and virtuous in
their dress, conversation, habits and associates.
Urged upon the sisters the necessity of being
washed and annointed preparatory to their con-
finement as it is a great blessing to both mother
and child.
	Spoke of the principal of "Celestial Marri-
age," what a blessing it was for men to have
more wives especially if they were like Sister
Hyde and Vilate Kimball who had been so
kind and generous to their husbands children
and family. Hoped we would be kind to the
poor and the aged as it was a dreadful thing
to be poor and old. It is they who need our
aid and sympathy and not the rich. Prayed
God to bless the sisters of Sanpete with His
choicest blessings, and all who labor for the
building up of His work.
	Sister M. W. Snow Spoke: Was highly
pleased with the instructions we had received
this afternoon; hoped we would carry them
out. Knew that the spirit of the Lord had
been with the sisters during conference. Al-
ways enjoyed meeting with the sisters of this
Stake; loved all who loved the Lord; While
sitting and listening she had thought of the
goodness of God in making the desert blossom
as the rose. How necessary it was for Mothers
to set good examples before their children; if
that should they err they cannot say "mother
did that." How essential it is for
them to set good examples that are worthy
of imitation. Spoke in relation to the Manti
Temple and how the Spirit had been working;
what a great work had been going on for the
dead. Spoke of the sisters being baptised for
their health; if they would go in faith what a
blessing it would be to them. Knew that
every principal we had been taught was from
God, even the principal of "Celestial Marriage;"
we should never allow ourselves to speak lightly
of it. Prayed God to bless, strengthen and
help us all to do right.
	(Prest. M. A. Hyde had been greatly in-
terested in the remarks, and also the reports.
Thought the sisters deserved great credit for
their industry and perseverence.
	What beautiful times we are living in for
a faithful Latter-day Saint. Spoke of the
good times they used to have in early days,
exercising the gifts, prophesying, comforting the
sick etc., closed by speaking in "tongues."
Sister Kimball giving the interpretation.)
	Closing remarks were made by Prest.
Canute Petersen. Related some of the ex-
perience he had had in his early days; of the
goodness of God to him, and the gifts and
blessings he had enjoyed. Exhorted the sisters
to continue in their good work, and be help-
meets to their husbands instead of help-eats.
To do all the good they could in helping to
carry on the glorious work.
	A letter was read from the Prest. of the
Silk Association by Coun. S. Petersen. Sing-
ing, "Oh My Father thou that dwellest," etc.,
Benediction. Conference adjourned to meet
at Spring City Dec. 15, 1888, at 10 a. m.,
	The sisters have on hand in cash: $849.13;
in Property, $1,066.89; in Real Estate, $8,786.
95; in Wheat, 8,147 bushels 47 pounds; Mul-
berry trees 572.
		MARY A. HYDE WHITE, Sec.

[Column 2]

ONEIDA STAKE.

	The Relief Society of tho Oneida Stake
held their annual conference at Franklin, Sept.
9, 1888. Prest. Elizabeth Fox presiding.
After the opening exercises Sisters Mary Hawks
and Mary J. Hendricks were set apart as
counselors to Prest. Fox.
	The Presidents of the different wards gave
in their verbal reports which were very favor-
able. 
	Coun. M. Hawks said: "we should not be
ashamed to bear our testimony. We are a
blessed people, we should attend our meetings
and learn useful things."
	Coun. M. J. Hendricks: Her motto was to
be on hand at all times. Felt honored to
have been in "plural marriage," to bring up
sons and daughters in the same. Related her
daughters dream. Bore a faithful testimony.
	Coun. M. F. Cowley felt pleased to address
the sisters; spoke encouragingly to mothers to
teach them everything timely and good.
Dwelt at some length on "charity." Those
who stand at the head of families should be
very careful in all their actions.
	Sunday, 2 p. m., Singing. Prayer by W.
L. Webster. Singing. Sacrament was then
administered; minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	Sister Richards felt to exhort us to lay
aside all pride, "and train the minds of our
children; not spend so much time in adorning
their body, but adorn their minds with truth
and virtue and they will bless you in your old
age; cherish charity, and learn forgiveness to
all men and the lord will forgive whom he
will. It is the duty of the Relief Society to
administer to the needs of the poor. We
have been instructed to lay up grain; we shall
he called upon to feed many people from all
nations. Do we keep all the commandments
given us ? I think not; or we would not be as
we are to-day. But the time will come when
Zion will arise and shine; put away every-
thing that is evil and the Lord will bless us.
	Sister Clark said: "what is a mother in
Israel ? It is to teach their children by pre-
cept and example. We must bring ourselves
in subjection to the laws of God. If the older
classes will serve the Lord we will soon lead
the young into the path of duty." Spoke
with power of the great blessings she had re-
ceived and wished to encourage the sisters unto
faithfulness.
	Bishop L. L. Hatch made a few remarks,
praying that we might be able to put into
practice what we had heard to-day.
	Prest. Elizabeth Fox said: "we have had
an enjoyable time; our societies are a blessing
to the poor. Do not be slothful in doing
good." Desired the sisters to be dilligent in
attending to the duties that devolve upon them.
	Singing,  Benediction by S. R. Parkinson.
		ANNIE HATCH Sec.

TRIP AROUND ONEIDA STAKE.

DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to give you a short sketch of our trip
around the Oneida Stake of Zion. On the 12th
of October myself and Sister Mary Hawkes,
counselors, started from Franklin by team to
go to Mink Creek to hold meeting with the
Relief Society at 3 p. m., and of course the
brethren were not excluded. It being twenty
miles from Franklin, and that considerable of
the distance rising higher and higher, till we
appear to be right on the mountains. We think
none but the toiling, industrious Mormons
would make farms and homes here. But here
we are on time, with sharpened appetites to do
justice to lunch provided by Sister Rosenbaum,
and then to meeting, where we are pleased to
find a good turnout of the sisters, and also the
bishop and others of the leading brethren.

[Column 3]

Suffice to say we had a splendid meeting, the
Spirit of the Lord being with both speakers
and hearers. After meeting we go with the
President of the Relief Society, and other
sisters whom she invited to her home. We have
a good sociable time besides partaking of the
hospitality of our hostess. We stayed all nigh
here.
	13th.—We go over the divide into Gentile
Valley. When we finally reach the top
of those hills, the views we have of Bear
River are Grand in the extreme. I think every
soul who beholds them cannot but acknowledge
the handiwork of an Allwise Creator. Now
we go down into the valley, and arrive in time
to hold meeting with the sisters in Mound
Valley Ward, eat dinner with the President of
the Relief Society, after which we travel on to
Mormon Ward and put up with our former
co-laborer, Sister Ann Hale, in this stake. We
received a kind welcome, and put up for the
night.
	14th.—This being the Sabbath day, we at-
tended school this morning. The Superin-
tendent is Brother Sol Hale, Jun. We were
much pleased with the exercises and the good
order of the bright, intelligent looking children.
In a little while after school the meeting was
held owing to the people being so scat-
tered. After the opening of the meeting and
sacrament had been administered, the bishop
gave us the opportunity of occupying the time
we wished, in speaking to the sisters. There
needed a re-organization of the Relief Society,
the former president, S. Richards, having
removed. The organization was effected with
Sister Julia Pond President, Jane Bolwinkle
and Agnes Harris Counselors. We had a good
visit the day out with our friend, Sister Hale,
and stayed the night here.
	15th.—Our teamster says, all aboard for
Oxford, so, bidding our friends a hearty good-
bye and thanks for kindnesses, we take our
departure from this pretty little valley. We
arrive at Oxford in plenty of time for our
meeting at 3 o'clock p.m. Here we put up at
M. J. Hendricks, our second counselor, she
having been put in place of Sister Hale, who
was honorably released, owing to her having
other local duties to attend to. We had a good
meeting here with the sisters of the Relief
Society. We also had a few good remarks
from Bishop Lewis and Patriarch Milo Andrus.
We stay here all night.
	16th.—Sister Hendricks now accompanies us
to Marsh Valley. We hold meeting at 2 p. m.
at Woodland, and at 6:30 in the evening at
Garden Creek. Stay here all night.
	17th.—Hold meeting at Nine Mile at 11 a.
m., after which we return to Oxford, having
traveled about sixty-five miles since we left here.
	18th.—This morning we leave Oxford to go
to Clifton, and I must say the mountain scenery
on our right is beautiful indeed; the rich
autumn tints of the foliage have to be seen to be
appreciated The dwelling houses on this bench
have the grand old mountains for a back-ground
and quite a long stretch of meadow-land in
front, which makes it a lovely situation for
homes. We hold meeting here at Clifton at
10:30 a. m., after which our friends kindly
provide us with refreshments. We afterwards
continue our journey on to Weston, where we
are to hold meeting at 4 p. m. We arrive in
time, and are pleased to find a goodly number
of the sisters gathered, and also Bishop Clark
and other brethren. We spend the night at
Sister Clark's, President of the Relief Society,
where we are entertained in the evening with
a nice selection of music on the organ by their
daughter, Miss Clark.
	19th.—We leave here this morning for
Preston, our meeting to be held at 11 o'clock
a. m. There was also a good attendance of the
sisters here, and Bishop W. C. Parkinson, who
gave us good instructions during our meeting.


Afterwards we were invited to spend a few
hours with our genial friend, Mrs. Nellie
Parkinson, with a few other sisters. It was not
long before dinner was announced, when we all
sat down to a well spread table. Traveling in 
these mountains as a general thing makes
people enjoy their food; it was so with us in this
case. Now we bid our kind friends good-bye,
and this being our last place to visit on this
tour, myself and Sister Hawkes return to our
homes in Franklin, Sister Hendricks having
left us before, and we feel very grateful to our
heavenly Father that he has assisted us in our
weakness by His good Spirit to perform our
duty in trying to encourage our sisters to live
up. to the great privileges they can enjoy in
their Relief Societies. We have traveled about
one hundred and seventy miles by team, and
held ten meetings. The sisters treat us kindly 
in every place. May the Lord bless them in
their responsible duties is the desire of their
sister,		ELIZABETH FOX.
	Franklin, Idaho, Nov. 8, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Queen Christine of Spain, is said to be one of
the finest swimmers in the world. She recently
swam across the Bay of St. Sebastien, followed
for security by a boat. The traject took three-
quarters of an hour. Four ladies tried to
swim along with the Queen, but gave up after
a quarter of an hour.
	According to the returns received from the
Department of Agriculture over two hundred
Mormons have emigrated from Utah to the
Canadian Northwest during the past season.
The settlements already established south of
the Canadian Pacific are thriving.
	East Des Moines has a school named in
honor of Louisa Alcott. On the ninth of
October, by a happy thought of Mrs. Maria
Orwig, this school was presented with a beauti-
ful life-size portrait of Miss Alcott's mother.
Mrs. Pratt, the "Meg" in "Little Women," and
Mrs. Adams, of Dubuque, Mrs. Orwig and Mr.
Ives, the artist, combined to secure the picture.
The presentation day was a gala day for the
school children. They knew about Louisa
Alcott and loved her as all school children do.
But they did not know about her wise and
lovely mother. They were told how noble and
courageous she was in the midst of poverty
and great trials. The heart of every child
went out with warm love to Mrs. Alcott, and
six hundred little voices sang for very gladness
at this first recognition of good mothers, who
are to be remembered hereafter as example and
inspiration, just as good fathers and good men
have always been.


HOUSEHOLD RECIPES.

	The following recipes we can highly recommend as we
have tried them:
	Mince Meat.—Five pounds lean fresh beef chopped raw,
two pounds beef suet chopped fine and cleared from strings,
seven pounds of apples chopped fine, five pounds raisins
seeded and chopped, five pounds currants washed and
cleaned, one pound of citron cut up fine, five tablespoonsful
powdered cinnamon, three tablespoonsful powdered mace,
two tablespoonsful powdered cloves, two tablespoonsful
powdered alspice, two tablespoonsful salt, two nutmegs
five pounds brown sugar, one pint best brandy and enough
fresh cider to render nice and juicy. After mixing alto-
gether boil ten or fifteen minutes.
	Cream Cake.—Cream, one quart milk, three eggs, one
cup sugar, three tablespoons flour, one teaspoon butter,
flavor with vanilla; cook well.
	Cake.—Six eggs, two cups sugar, seven tablespoons cold
water, three cups flour, four teaspoons baking powder.
Bake the paste in four pie tins; when done cut each open
and insert the cream.		E. W.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Died, at Payson, after an illness of a few weeks, Sept.
26, 1888. Magdelena Baer Sabin, beloved wife of the
late David Sabin, and a faithful member of the Payson
Ward Relief Society.
	Deceased was born May 9, 1822, in Switzerland. She
was the mother of twelve children, of whom one son and
three daughters are now located in Zion. She was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in the year 1843, emigrated in 1877. She lived true to
the covenants she had made, and her greatest desire was
that all her children would embrace the Gospel. She did
all she could according to her power and ability to help
the work along, in which she was engaged, and died in
hopes of a glorious resurrection. We feel to  offer to
her memory the following

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, in the providence of our Heavenly Father He
has seen fit to take from our society our sister; Magdalena
Baer Sabin, and,
	Whereas, our departed friend and sister was worthy of
our warmest affection, we feel that some proper recogni-
tion of her goodness and virtue be had among us, there-
fore, be it
	Resolved, that we the members of the Relief Society of
the Payson Ward, deeply mourn the loss of our sister and
hold her name in affectionate remembrance.
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to her family;
and that we try to live that we may be prepared to meet
her when we have finished our work here below.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread on our re-
cords, and that a copy be presented to her family, and
also a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		ANN PICKERING,
		ANN NEBEKER,
		ARTEMISIA WHITE,
		ELIZABETH SCHREAM,
			Committee.


OBITUARIES.

[For the EXPONENT.]
	Died, at Oceanville Long Island, N. Y., Nov. 6, '88,
of typhoid fever, Mary Eliza, wife of Wm. R. Sopher
and daughter of Richard and the late Amy Bower, born
June 15, 1834. Was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, by her father, in 1861; and
always remained faithful to her belief.

	To the memory of Barbara Morgan Maughan beloved
wife of W. H. Maughan. She departed this life Sept. '19,
1888, aged 53 years 8 months and 27 days; she leaves a
husband and family to mourn her loss. Her mortal re-
mains were followed to the meeting house by her family,
and the officers of the Ward Relief Society, where
Prest. Pitkin, Bishop Hughes and Bishop Molen spoke in
praise and eulogy of the pure life and many virtues of our
beloved friend.
	She was Counselor to the President of the Relief Society
in this Ward, being released on account of failing health,
with a benediction and a blessing from the sisters, as her
counsels were always gentle and loving. She was one of
the pure in heart, and died as she had lived, beloved and
esteemed by all who knew her, in full faith of a glorious
resurrection and reunion in the life to come.

	"Friend after friend departs,
		Who has not lost a friend !
	There is no union here of hearts,
		That find not here an end.
	She is not dead whose noble mind
		Lifts thine on high—
	To live in hearts we leave behind,
		Is not to die."

			MRS. JANE LEATHAM.
Wellsville, Oct. 30, 1888.

	Died, at Payson, Sept. 16, 1888, Anna, the beloved
wife of Henry Scharrer. Born Dec. 21st 1817. Heard,
and embraced the Gospel in the fall of 1857, being the
only one of a large family embracing it; emigrated with
her husband and two children to Utah in the year 1860,
In answer to a call, went with her husband and family to


assist in opening up the Mission in Southern Utah,
Passed through many trials and afflictions, and also much
suffering iu her last sickness, caused by liver complaint and
old age.
	She was the mother of three children two of whom are
living, and grand-mother to eighteen. She was very
modest and unassuming in manner, patient and uncom-
plaining, and resigned in trouble.
	Died in full faith of the Gospel and in the hope of a
glorious resurrection.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Adopted by the sisters of the 4th District Relief Society
of the Payson Ward. To the memory of our esteemed
sister Anna Scharren:
	Whereas, it has pleased God in his infinite wisdom, to
take from our midst, by the hand of Death, our worthy
and beloved sister, and,
	Whereas, we, her fellow-laborers in the Relief Society
feel that we have lost a friend and sister; be it therefore.
	Resolved, that we tender our love and esteem and heart-
felt sympathy to Bro. Henry Scharrer and family, and
condole with them in their bereavment while we submit to
the will of an alwise God who doethall things well.
	Resolved, that we spread these resolutions on the So-
ciety record; and present a copy to the family, and also to
the Woman's Exponent for publication.

	She has filled herearthly mission
		And is wanted up above;
	To continue in good labors
		Where all is peace and love.

	Sleep! Oh sleep dear Sister.
		Till Gabriel's trump shall sound.
	You'll awaken from your slumber
		To receive a righteous crown.

			HELEN HUISH,
			ANNIE TAYLOR,
			AMY HANCOCK,
				Committee.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS,  GLOVES,  PARASOLS,
RIBBONS,  COLLARS,  TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118, East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. BOX 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1888.	No. 13.


[For the EXPONENT.]
CHRISTMAS HYMN.

This earth had not in orbit rolled,
Or present form received—
When in grand council holy Gods
A glorious plan conceived.
And all the "Morning Stars" did shout
An anthem, fraught with praise,
Yea, prophesied and sang with joy
Of these the latter days.

The plan conceived, tho' man should sin,
And through transgression fall;
Yea, sin and darkness cover earth
As with a sable pall.
That Jesus Christ on earth should come
With  healing in His wings,
And conquer death, hell and the grave,
And reign as King of kings.

This glorious plan came from the Head—
Father of light and love—
'Twas sanctioned by the heavenly host,
Who dwelt with Him above,
That Christ should come, dwell in the flesh
And be a sacrifice;
That countless millions of the dead—and
Living might rejoice.

"While shepherds watched their flocks by night,
O'erspread on Judean plains,
The angels of the Lord appeared,
Chanting celestial strains;
Such heavenly melodies burst forth,
Seraphic strains arise,
Echoing grand from world to world,
Along the star-lit skies.

Peace be on earth, goodwill to man,
The shining seraphs sang,
Celestial choirs caught up the strain,
While heavenly music rang;
Behold, the Star of Bethlehem !
See where its halo plays;
Your King and Savior of this world
There in a manger lays.

The foxes had their place of rest,
The birds securely slept,
'Mid leafy boughs, when night had come,
While Jesus oftimes wept,
Despised, rejected, sick and faint,
Athirst and lacking bread
An outcast and a wanderer,
Not where to lay His head.

He preached the Gospel, healed the sick,
Gave sight unto the blind,
And fed the hungry multitude,
And sought to bless mankind.
Great drops of blood oozed from His pores,
in agony He wept,
And prayed, "Thy will be done, not mine,"
While His disciples slept.

The Jews, they smote and spat on Him,
And spilled His precious blood;
They nailed Him to the shameful cross, 
Yea, crucified their God.
He died, but soon He rose again
With victory o'er the tomb,
He loosed their hands, the captives freed,
And brake the prison gloom.
	
Ring out, glad bells, your sweetest chimes!
Ring out the glad refrain!
Peace be on earth, good will to man,
Ring out, ring out again!
Peal forth, sweet bells, in midnight hour,
Good will, good will to man!
Hosannah to the "King of kings,"
Amen, amen, amen.
	C. L. W.


[Column 1]
ABOUT CENTRAL AMERICA AND
MEXICO.
	At the Young Men's Conference held in the
Tabernacle at Ogden City Nov. 11, Apostle
Moses Thatcher delivered a very able and elo-
quent address touching upon the ancient inhabi-
tants of this continent, the ruins of their cities
and many other things relating to the same
subject.  The discourse is published in full in
The Standard of Nov. 13, and as we have
perused it with great satisfaction we have de-
cided to republish parts of it for the readers of
the EXPONENT, feeling confident that they will
find it highly interesting and instructive; it
also corroborates the testimony of the Book of
Mormon, which is a matter for the serious
consideration of the youth of Zion. After
introducing his subject in the most graceful
manner Apostle Thatcher said:
	"In the Valley of Mexico are located the ex-
tensive ruins of an ancient city known to
scientific writers and explorers as the City of 
the Gods. Its circumference as recently traced
is shown to have been 27 miles. In the midst
of where this ancient city once stood is found
what is known as the pyramid of the moon.
The larger pyramid covers an area equal to
twelve acres and when perfect was 280 feet
high. The lesser covers an area of about
eight acres and is some sixty-five or eighty
feet less in height. These vast structures were
constructed by human hands and the massive
stones are as true and as perfectly laid to the
line as any building we have any knowledge
of. These large pyramids are surrounded by
myriads of other smaller structures, which
doubtless have reference to the starry firma-
ment. This people undoubtedly had a very
extensive knowledge of astronomy. They 
originally built with earth and bound the
walls together with solid layers of cement
from eight to twelve inches in thickness. The
walls are evenly sloped down on the four sides,
and in their original complete form are cov-
ered with porphyretic rock over which a heavy
coat of cement is plastered, so that the noon-
day sun, as on the pyramids of Egypt, strikes
on the four sides of the building.
	These buildings have not been extensively
explored throughout the interior, but suffi-
ciently so to discover interior rooms, beauti-
fully painted, decorated and frescoed, the
work remaining as perfect and preserved as if
but modern works of art.
	When the Aztecs came from the north they
found this city and these pyramids in ruins.
They found also certain traditions of an ex-
tinct people which caused them to make a re-
cord that the people who built these magnifi-
cant edifices were a white race and not of a
dark skin as were the Aztecs. Excavations
demonstrated this record to be true, for in
opening the graves of this enlightened people 
the discovery was made that they were a light-
haired race. Extending from the pyramid of
the sun to the pyramid of the moon, is still to
be seen a gigantic causeway of cement. It re-
mains in such a perfect condition that it can
easily be traced without making any other ex-
cavations than those already made by the
winds and the storms.  The smaller pyramid
is encircled by rows of seats on two sides fac-
ing this causeway where, doubtless, on occasions
of great import and weight to the nation, sat
thousands of people.
	There is a book preserved of the writings of

[Column 2]
this people, describing a band that came from
across the sea at the confounding of the lan-
guages at the Tower of Babel.  It speaks of a
people that traveled through the wilderness
for years. They gathered with them a great
many seeds as well as the honey-bee. The
leader of this little band of twenty-two in-
dividuals found favor in the sight of God.
When the languages were confounded he
prayed to God that he might retain the lan-
guage of his fathers. His pleadings were
heard and granted, and encouraged by this
recognition of the Lord, he asked that he pre-
serve the language of his brother as well as
those who accompanied him. This prayer was
also granted. These writings also give further
details of their travels; how when they reached
the mighty waters they constructed eight barges
or boats and crossed the sea; how they increased
in wealth and population after they had landed
on this continent; how, as time passed on, strife
began, wickedness increased, righteousness
ceased, battles were fought and they became an
extinct people. The same writings also refer
to the re-peopling of this continent and give a
very similar account of it to that given by the
young brother this morning.
	When but a youth of fifteen years I was
met by the proposition that the Book of Mor-
mon was not true, as that book spoke of animals
which were not found on this continent when
Columbus discovered America; animals which
swere such a strange sight to the natives that
on the advent of Cortez and his army of five-
hundred men, carrying with them a number of
horses, the Aztecs imagined the men and horses
to be one being, when mounted, and that on 
this account many battles were won.  To this
proposition I could then only answer, "I be-
lieve the Book of Mormon to be true," but I 
could not tell why. But when a great French
explorer, while exhuming at a city sixty miles
from Mexico, discovered a large number of
animal bones, which were submitted to the
great scientific school at Mexico, the learned
savants pronounced them to be the bones of
cattle and horses. Then this explorer ex-
claimed, "If the learned men of Washington
and the wise savants of France shall agree
with the savants of Mexico, I shall have
opened up a branch of natural history and
science that will be a wonder to the world."
And it proved to be true. The learned men
agreed upon the decision of the Mexican sa-
vants. Thus we have scientific researchers, and
one by one they bear testimony, without a
knowledge of the contents of the Book of
Mormon by the discoverers, of the divinity of
this ancient history. We have a knowledge
through Joseph Smith's translation of the 
Book of Mormon, of the wars which devasta-
ted the country; of the retreat of the Nephites
in a northerly direction, step by step. Recent
scientific researches demonstrate this line of
retreat to have been truly described. The
signal stations of this retreating people can be
traced through Central America, the heart of 
Mexico, crossing the Mississippi River, thence
on across the Red River and up through Ohio,
until the people made their weary march to the
hill Cumorah, in New York, where 230,000
brave souls drew their last breath of life in
one day.
	Many of the fortifications on this line of
retreat are still preserved and show by their
choice of location as well as manner of con-
struction that the people who built them were


in dire distress.  We may read in these signs
that are left us, how this undaunted people
erected fortifications for the protection of their
families as they retreated, contending every
inch of ground, until the last battle-field was
reached.
	There are not many evidences left in the
Territory of Utah of this high, ancient civil-
ization, but that the Aztecs, who were a dark
race, came from the North and passed through
Utah and Arizona there is no doubt.  Through-
out the latter territory there are ruins of vast
cities and extensive canals stretching out for
miles and miles.  At Mesa, there is at present
a large ancient canal, constructed hundreds of
years ago, a great portion of which is even
now used by our people in the irrigation of
their lands.  There is no doubt that the whole
Salt River country at one time contained
a large and wealthy population.
	In the Rio Casa Grande, in Chihuahua,
more extended traces of a most sorely distressed
people are visible.  On every high point,
where the sun's rays could shed their warmth,
and where a single yard of land, protected
from the Pacific showers, could be used for
cultivation, human hands constructed stone
walls to hold in position enough soil from
which to raise a little food for a scanty sub-
sistance.  In the gorges below, villages, ham-
lets and tents were found, on the peaks above,
the signal stations, or the grave of the poor
sentinel who died at his post.  In the valleys
were the larger towns, but wherever a human
foot could find a resting place the ground has
been utilized.
	On either side of the Rio Verde can be
found numerous caves containing many rooms
of ancient construction.  They also are built
as true to the line and plumb, and as well, yes,
better plastered than our houses, for they are
plastered with cement.  I counted seventeen
rooms in one of these caves.  On the walls are
writings in ancient characters, inscriptions
that would tell a wonderful story of a dis-
tressed, suffering, retreating people.  Some day
a prophet and a revelator may arise among
the Latter-day Saints who in the Lord's own
time may read them and make them known to
us.
	These caves as a rule terminate at the end
of a small valley while on either side rise per-
pendicular walls of stone hundreds of feet in 
height.  Think of the distress of that people!
Their caves were solidly walled up in front
with but a small opening, just large enough
for the passage of a human being, and the
portholes through which they shot their arrows
or other missiles.  The opening of these caves
commanded a full view of the valley on either
side and had flanked fortifications where the
men fought on the outside while their wives
 and children received protection from within.
When forced to retreat the small opening was
walled up while they lived on the provisions
they had stored up.  They had large tanks in
these caves, those which were elevated proba-
bly being used for the provisions, while those
in the bottom of the caves were used for water.
One of these large tanks still remains.  Here
you can find the cobs which held their corn;
the broken mills on which their corn was
ground.  By excavating a few feet, removing
the debris which has accumulated during cen-
turies, you may pull out strings of ocean beads
which crumble in your hands and vanish leav-
ing you but the string.  How many years have
passed since these threads were spun and these
beads strung is not for me to say.  But this
much is certain, those who built, and toiled, and
labored in these days were a white race.  When
we employed a surveyor to lay out a canal
near the spot where a number of our people
had taken refuge, he tried for several days
without success and finally located it in the
channel of an old canal.  Surrounding this

[Column 2]
spot there was not a single foot of land but
what had been cultivated centuries before.  I
have touched briefly on these matters to show
how God can build up a great nation to-day
and tear it down to-morrow.  The Book of 
Mormon plainly declares that no kingly gov-
ernment shall prosper upon this land.  This is
the land of Joseph; this is the fruitful bough;
this is the land seen in vision and described as
a land flowing with milk and honey.  God in-
tended this people to be a free people, to be in-
telligent, to exercise their own agency and to
delight in righteousness.  It is a pleasure to
read of the blessings decreed by God on all
the people inhabiting North and South 
America.  But it is with deep sorrow that I
see this great nation, of which Columbus was a
forerunner, and to whom the Lamanites gave
way as the dew before the morning sun, is be-
coming corrupt.  It is with great misgivings that
I see the nation dwindling from the glorious
principles of the law of God, whereas, if the
people would live righteously, it would become
and remain the most powerful nation on earth.
But if they will not heed God's commands,
but practice all manner of wickedness and
corruption the nation will not stand.  Look at
Rome!  How she ground the nations—how
she ruled them at her beck and call!  Yet
she fell prey at the feet of barbarians in a
few years.  This was because she lost her in-
tegrity, her union, and her strength through
her corruption, and still this nation was the
most powerful on earth when her sons were
pure and devoted to their country.
	We now have before us, in brief, the history
of the people that lived upon this continent,
not only in the Book of Mormon, but in all
the ruins of their work; it cannot be disputed,
and God knows, as we ought to know by these
evidences, that an intelligent people once lived
here.  The great highways and stupendous
aqueducts found in Central America and built
by this people as far surpass the engineering
skill displayed in the building of the Union
Pacific and the Central Pacific as you can im-
agine.  Their mines were well developed.  I
have seen beautiful copper needles, copper
bells and a thousand works of art which have
laid buried for ages.
	This was not the people that believed in
human sacrifices. It was the people that came
after them who would at the end of a cycle of
fifty years turn out at midnight, find a willing
victim, carry him to the highest eminence
where they had their altars raised, stretched
him on this altar with bared back and chest,
strike the knife to his breast, tear out the yet
palpitating heart, and then thrust sticks into the
gaping wound and rub them together to cause
fire.  This race was the people that believed
that at the close of such sacrifices the smiles
of their god would rest upon them for another
cycle of fifty years; it was not the people that
built the pyramids, the temples and the high-
ways, and that brought up the cultivation of
the ground to such perfection.
	Could we but have the writings of this peo-
ple!  Could we but have the cords of books
and records burned by the Catholic priests, how
much we would know of this people, if those
writings were interpreted.  But they believed
it necessary to wipe out all traces of ancient
tradition and all evidences upon which rested
the faith of the Indians, in order to lead them
to the belief of another God.  Yet when these
priests, with great reverence opened the Bible
and began to teach the Indian, he would say,
"Why we have heard these things before; we
have them in our holy book."  "Where is
this book?"  The priests would ask.  The 
Indian would say, "It is buried in the earth,
yours is but a copy of ours."
	This book, according to tradition, teaches
that at one time a white being dwelt in their
midst who taught them to open their mines

[Column 3]
and cultivate the ground.  He left them, but
promised that he would return and rule over
them as king.  It was this tradition that filled
Montezuma with fear and supersition lest the
prophecy was about to be fulfilled, and which
enabled Cortez and his five hundred men to do
the work they did.  Montezuma had himself
subjugated thirty-two countries surrounding
Mexico.  He and his followers were as courag-
eous as lions.  He had millions of people
ready to do his bidding.  How could so few
white men enter into the heart of such a coun-
try and conquer it?  It was the fear which
this tradition had brought upon them that
caused Montezuma and his people to waste
away before the Spaniards.  The people had
slain the prophets and the revelators and must
receive in turn that which they had dealt out.
	Yet this is a bright people.  I saw in the
City of Mexico an Indian studying French,
German and English at the same time, besides
teaching a school four hours a day.  And yet
by his side was as bright an American youth
as is commonly found, struggling hard to mas-
ter one language alone.  The Mexican orator
whose name has become famous, was possessed
of such an eloquence in picturing the victory
of the Republic in the war of the Revolution
that the Secretary of State fell upon his neck
and surrendered the homage due to this man.
And yet he was a pure Aztec.
	Mexico is a progressive nation.  We call her
semi-barbarous, but I look to see the time
when the Mexican people will be as bright and
intelligent as they now are kind, affectionate,
and hospitable.  The Mexican people must not
be judged by the elements on the border, for
there, as is generally the case, congregate the 
scum of both nations."
	Following the remarks quoted, Apostle
Thatcher reviewed briefly the history of the
people from the time the Angel Moroni guided
Joseph Smith to the hill Cumorah up to the
present, bearing a strong testimony of the
truth, and exhorting the congregation to
humility, and to cultivate a spirit of forgive-
ness toward all men; he said: "I know that
God demands a forgiving spirit, charity, and
humility.  I know that this people will come
off victorious.	*	*	Live your re-
ligion; be generous and kind.  Let the
teachers hunt up the destitute and poor, no
matter of what color or creed.  Give, and []
shall return unto you."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Wednesday afternoon, Nov. 21, a largely at-
tended meeting of the Massachusets Woman
Suffrage Association was held in the Meionaon.
Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney presided, and in her
opening address reviewed the good work done
by women upon school boards. There were,
she said, more than one hundred women mem-
bers of the school boards throughout the State
and in no instance was there occasion for cen-
sure. Whenever women had been admitted
consultations regarding school matters, they
had proven themselves worthy to advise.

	The annual meeting of the Nebraska Suffrage
Association will open at Omaha, Dec. 3, and
continue through the following day. Addresses
will be made by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and
Susan B. Anthony. Business meetings will
be held morning and afternoon of Dec. 4, and
in the evening the delegates will be invited to
a reception, by Mrs. Clark Woodman, in honor
of Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony. Each
auxiliary Society may send three delegates.
The dues from auxiliary societies are twenty
five cents per member. Any person not a
 member of an auxiliary society may become a
member of the State Association, by payment 
of fifty cents.				
CLARA B. COLBY, Prest.
M. ISABEL BOND, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A LAMENT.
I stand where I last stood with thee!
Sorrow, O sorrow!
There is not a leaf on the trysting-tree;
There is not a joy on the earth to me;
Sorrow, O sorrow!
When shalt thou be once again what thou wert?

O, the sweet yesterdays fled from the heart,
Have they a morrow?—
Here we stood, ere we parted so close side by side;
Two lives that thus part are as ships that divide,
When moment on moment there rushes between
The one and the other, a sea;—
Oh, never can fall from the days that have been. 
A gleam on the years that shall be!
	LYTTON.


THE OLD HOME.

I have gone—I cannot always go, you know;
Best 'tis so—
Home across the distant ridges of the years;
With my tears:
And the old house, standing still on the old ground,
There I found.
In the parlor, in my fancy, I could trace
Father's face;
And my mother, with her old accustomed air,
Sitting there;
While beside them brothers, sisters, true and good,
Silent stood.
Through the stillness swam the song of summer bird,
And there stirred
On the wall the leaf-flecked sunshine; and its glow
Faded slow;
But from all the loving lips I watched around—
Not a sound.
Of the breaths that stirred the draperies to and fro
Long ago;
Of the eyes that through the casement used to peep
Out of sleep;
Of the feet that in these chambers used to run—
Now are none.
Of the sunshine pouring downward from the sky,
Blue and high;
Of the leafage and the ancient garden plot;
Brown and hot;
Of the streamlet, and the shingle, and the tide—
These abide.
But beyond its azure vaulting overhead
Are my dead;
Though their graves were dug apart in many lands,
Joining hands,
They have gathered and are waiting till I come.
That is home!
	—Presbyterian.


CHRISTMAS

	Ah, me! It is Christmas time, merry and 
joyous. What sweet recollections are recalled 
to mind on this happy occasion. Old folks
and young join in gay pastimes, and it is not
only a reason of rejoicing, but of refreshing,
bodily and mentally. For a few hours, at least,
peace is the sentiment of all honest hearts, and
harshness and ingratitude are banished. The 
very name suggests innocence, purity and love;
for is it not the embodiment and name of the
dear Savior, the blessed Redeemer, who came
with the gladdest message that was ever brought
to human hearts; the tidings of salvation? The 
most precious gift vouchsafed to man upon
earth; and in imitation of His glorious example,
mankind bestow the most fitting gift upon one
another in remembrance of the blessed day,
when unto the holy virgin a son was born,
whose name was Emmanuel. Yes, He who
said, "Love one another." On this day all
who desire to be his followers should put away
all ill-feeling, and try to forgive and forget
and to do some good deed, as well as bestow

(Column 2)
costly gifts on those who are dear to them by
the ties of kindred or friendship. The poor
whom Jesus loved and sought to please are re-
membered on this day, more bounteously, per-
haps, than on any other day in all the year. 
Blessed day! that brings gladness to so many 
lonely hearts! Blessed Savior! whose advent 
upon earth we celebrate so joyfully. What
better tribute could we pay to him who loved
the poor, the meek and the lowly ones, than to
minister to these His children, and share with
them the blessings kind heaven has boun-
tifully vouchsafed; thus fulfilling His in-
junction, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto 
one of these ye have done it unto me." And
in blessing we have the promise of being
blessed in return. He who pours out abun-
dantly upon the poor and unfortunate, will find
his heart lighter, and in the hour of trial or of
sorrow, will recall with satisfaction the good
deeds which are recorded in his favor by the 
angels above, and which may perchance insure 
him a safer passage into the realms of happi-
ness. There is no pleasure so intense as that of
bestowing happiness upon others. And on
this day when all join in calling down blessings
upon each other, surely the angels shout and 
sing for joy over those who are walking in
Jesus' footsteps, treading the paths which will
lead where He has gone, to prepare a place for
those who love Him and keep His command-
ments.
	This is an exalting theme, and an inexhaus-
tible one; but lest I weary my readers by pur-
suing a monotonous strain, let us go back to 
childhood or wonder-land, where we all have 
been "once upon a time," and ramble a little 
over enchanted ground, where erst the fairies
sported, and Santa Claus held unbounded do-
minion at this season of the year. Who does
not remember Santa Claus? Dear old fellow;
children almost worship him, and are always 
on their good behavior when this antique genii
is expected. They are told the most extrava-
gant tales, and in many instances, the impres-
sions thus made, are so strong and lasting, that
in maturer years, one can shut his eyes and
imagine dear old St. Nicholas, driving his rein-
deers, eight in hand, muffled in furs and covered
with bells, that always peal merrily, merrily,
gliding over the house tops, dropping the bon 
bons and goodies down the chimneys, and skim-
ming along as easily as though he rode on the
fleecy white clouds. Who is there who cannot 
remember popping out of bed in the gray morn-
ing, with a trailing night robe on, to see what 
Santa Claus had left in the stocking by the 
chimney corner, the dear little barefeet,
blessed footprints "on the sands of time!" 
Without entering upon any dissertation upon
the merits or demerits of such fanciful tradi-
tions, let us take a cursory view of the Christ-
mas of to-day. This is a most extraordinary
age, and the people have made great discoveries 
in all the various departments of the arts and 
sciences. The spirit of invention is rife, and
there is nothing seemingly that can be made,
that has not been attempted in the way of 
utility or ornament. Consequently, there are
articles of every description and quality, suited
to the individual or circumstances: and all may 
be gratified in the selection of appropriate gifts.
	But after all is there not a certain nice dis-
crimination to be observed in choosing or
adapting a gift to the recipient, and is there
not a means of bestowal which brightens the
poorest present, making it exceed in value the 
costliest given in an ostentatious manner. There 
is certainly a great deal yet to be learned about 
the method of giving.
	The poor who possess innate refinement of
character, or perhaps may have seen better
days, may be so wounded by the manner in
which the Christmas dinner is given or the 
simple offering made to them, that a morsel of 
bread and water would be preferable. And 
even friends are oftimes careless how the gift is
conveyed, and think perchance it matters little.
It would be sad indeed if this practice has be-
come so common that one takes no thought of
the manner of it, but gives simply that it may
be said of him, he gave liberally or to be in
the fashion. True love, esteem or friendship, a 
desire to actually bless others should be the 
motive, and let us be charitable enough to
think that in most instances it is so; though
the hurry and bustle of this workday world 
make us now and then forget how beautiful it 
is to do all things gracefully.
	I know it is sometimes remarked by very
practical, matter of fact people, that it is all
nonsense to decorate and take such pains to 
gather evergreens, flowers and holly berries
for Christmas and holidays, but I beg leave to
differ, and to declare that these inanimate
things possess in a great degree the power of 
imparting efficacy to thought and feeling and
appeal strongly to the heart which is the high-
est embodiment of sensibility or approximates
nearest to the soul. Therefore I would say do
not shut out all the beautiful, and live within
four bare walls, but adorn your homes with 
those things which will suggest pleasant themes
for conversation, which will remind you of in-
nocence, and draw your thoughts towards that 
paradise you may attain, through diligence in 
good works where all is beauty and glory and 
brightness supernal.
	Yes, the mistletoe and holly are specially 
dear to every English heart, and their custom
of celebrating Christmas, reminds one of the 
days of chivalry of which the bards and poets
sang: 

"Children like holly berries,
Dear little robin said;
Gather them, bunch them together,
Mix with the green, the red.

"For if you love the children, 
It has been said some time,
In every holly berry,
Santa Claus hides a rhyme.

"Somebody pulled an armful,
Ran quickly home to look;
Found, for she so loves children,
Rhymes enough for a book."

	The Savior, Himself, beautifully illustrate
the most sublime sayings, and instructs His
disciples in parables that surpass in richness
and delicacy of sentiment, any productions of 
man. They are all the more forcible, because
 they are clothed by the touch of divine beauty. 
Who does not know that flowers inspire the 
tenderest emotions, that the evergreens and 
immortelles recall the immortal and imperish-
able? By all means encourage the beautiful,
be it ever so simple. 

"Fair nature's sweet symplicity
With elegance refined."

	What is there more touching in expression 
than the Savior's words:

	"Consider the lilies, how they grown, they toil not, neither
do they spin, and yet Solomon in all his glory was not
arrayed like one of these."

	But so dearly do I love the lilies, and such
like charming things, that lest I enter into an
elaborate dissertation upon flowers and trailing 
vines, winter berries and forest boughs, I will
say to my patient readers and dear, good
friends, known or unknown, "A Merry Christ-
mas" and "A Happy New Year," peace, happi-
ness and prosperity."
	AUNT EM.


Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, author of "Gate
Ajar," was married October 20, to Rev. H. D.
Ward, of the New York Independent. The
bride is an elderly woman of forty-five, while
Mr Ward has not yet reached his thirty-fifth
birthday.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space; one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMEAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 1, 1888.


[Column 1]

LIFE OF HEBER C. KIMBALL.

	The life of this great Apostle, Heber C. Kim-
ball, written by his grandson, Bishop O. F.
Whitney, has been completed and is now before
the public. It is a book of which all the Latter-
day Saints may justly be proud. It is as original
in style as the man whose life it portrays was in
character and expression. Bro. Kimball had a
style of his own, that no one else could imitate
without making himself ridiculous, because in
another person it was unnatural and apparently
"put on," while in Bro. Heber, as he was famil-
iarly called in early days, there was no effort or
affectation of manner or appearance. He was a
man of commanding figure and a magnificent
presence. He possessed in a large degree the
qualities of a leader which were emphatically
manifest on many occasions. In times of dan-
ger he was fearless as a lion, and, as his bio-
grapher says, "probably a braver man never
lived." His enemies knew it and respected him
for his genuine courage quite as much as his
friends.
	The book posesses all the fascination of a
sublime psalm or poem. The style is poetic and
inspirational and one cannot glance through it,
without feeling an intense sympathy with the
writer in his subject. He certainly had a lofty
theme, and he has handled it grandly and grace
fully.
	The book is dedicated thus, by the author:
"To the memory of my Grandfather and to the
great Cause of Truth, for which he lived and died;
and to all who love that Memory and that Cause."
	The volume contains five hundred and twenty
pages in sixty-eight chapters besides an appendix.
There is rather a lengthy preface giving some
general explanations, and the first chapter opens
the subject with, contents; "A Pre-existant
Glimpse—God's Noble and Great Ones—Heber
C. Kimball a Pre-destined Prophet—Opening of
the Last Dispensation—Heber's Birth and Paren-
tage—Early Incidents of His Life—Clouds and
Sunshine."
	Each chapter is similarly summed up, so that it
is easy to find any particular time or event by re-
ference to the table of contents, thus rendering it
comparatively easy to review the work. The
author has spared no pains to make his work
acceptable; the elegance of his style and the
perceptible choice of the best words in the English
language, help to make the book a literary
success.
	Steel engravings of Heber C. Kimball and
Vilate Kimball, Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and
Brigham Young embellish the work. It is printed
in large clear type on a fine quality of paper and
is handsomely bound in leather. It will be a
valuable acquisition to the libraries of the people.
It cannot fail but interest all who read it, and is

[Column 2]

well calculated to stimulate the youth of Zion to
earnest endeavors in the right direction, and to
awaken high and noble aspirations that will lead
them onward to success in difficult undertakings,
and arm them with courage, to cope with trials,
adversity and opposition, with that unflinching
resolution that is in itself a power and strength.
	One of the chapters opens thus: "Preaching
the Gospel and converting sinners unto Christ,
never yet depended for success upon man's learn-
ing or the music of oratory. The unlettered fish-
erman of Galilee, proclaiming in simple words
"Christ Crucified," were far more powerful in
winning souls from error's ways and melting the
hearts of the multitude, than would all the
orators have been. The Herods, Ciceros, or
Demosthenes of Judea, Greece and Rome." This
is indeed a grand truth beautifully told, but there
must be something genuine in the soul of that
man who can without education, without learning
carry convictiou to the hearts of his hearers.
His subject may be an exalted one, but unless he
is capable of entering into it with his whole soul,
his efforts to convince others will be fruitless.
Heber C. Kimball possessed this genuineness in
a very great degree. He felt intensely whatever
he said and whatever he preached, consequently
he made others feel. His biographer has deeply
felt the grandeur of his subject, and has written
with a force and vigor of expression, that stamps
itself perceptibly on every page. The reader
will be in sympathy with the writer and the work
will grow more and more interesting as he reads
on and on, not so much, it may be, for the history
of the man, or the general historical character of
the work, but for that inexpressible quality in
speaking and in writing that touches a sympa-
thetic chord in the individual, and lifts him into a
higher realm of thought where truth sparkles
with a new lustre, and all that is false fades into
insignificance. But we would not for a moment
under-estimate the book as a history; the history
of a great man—a man of God—a pioneer and a
man of advanced thought—a prophet in very
deed as many dally testify.
	The life and character of Vilate Kimball also
form an important part of the book. Her life
was closely interwoven with that of her husband,
and her many superior womanly qualities, so
happily portrayed by the author must call forth
the admiration of all into whose hands the book
will fall. Together hand in hand indissolubly
bound as husband and wife they laid the founda-
tion of a great patriarchal family; for the man is
not without the woman in the Lord, and Heber C.
Kimball, great as he was, could not have attained
to the honors he did had he not been associated
with a woman like Vilate; she was a part of his life,
and strong as he was he leaned upon her almost
as much as she did upon him. She was a stay and
a refuge for him throughout his eventful life, and
it no doubt made him more humble and childlike
in his nature, this devotion to the wife of his
youth. All this is gracefully told by the author
but in every life the unwritten is by far the greater
part. Vilate Kimball's life, as some of her inti-
mate friends knew it, never could be written, it is
above the pen of the most accomplished or in-
genious writer; but it is not our intention to tell
what we know about the people, but to review the
book; therefore, without reference to individuals,
we, can safely say the book reccomends itself, and
when read needs no other endorsement. There
are many thrilling incidents related, stories told
abounding with humor and one who knew Bro.
Heber can almost see in fancy the twinkle of his
piercing black eye, and the merry laugh that
was so contagious whenever indulged in, some-
times to his great annoyance.
	The founding of the British Mission forms one
 of the grand epochs in the Church, and is a
remarkable proof of Bro. Heber's leadership, and
also of his having been called of God. His

[Column 3]

family must certainly be proud of so illustrious a
husband and father, and it is very commendable
in them to have undertaken the publication of his
life. The ability of the author as a writer was
very well established before he undertook this
work, but he has succeeded in making his book
more highly interesting than even his admiring
friends anticipated. The book will live, for truth
never perisheth. The character of the man has
in no instance, so far as we are capable of judg-
ing, been overdrawn. It is not a eulogy, but a
record of this remarkable man worthy to be en-
graven in the hearts of his posterity.


SANTA CRUZ AND THE BIG TREES.

	After visiting Monterey, the next place of im-
portance that is likely to attract visitors is Santa
Cruz, a very old Spanish town, rambling and
picturesque, and one might almost fancy it was an
ancient city in the old world, so foreign and un-
American does everything appear. In the sum
mer time it is a favorite pleasure and bathing
resort, and as it has miles upon miles of sea beach,
where carriages may drive in full view of the
ocean, it is not strange that pleasure-seekers
should flock thither in the season thereof. When
we visited it, however, it was not under such
favorable circumstances; the weather was chilly
and damp, and the leaden November sky was not
calculated to beautify the quaint old place, that
might have looked charming in the golden sun-
shine of October. However, we made the most
of the time after breakfasting at the hotel, for we
had left the Del Monte without anything to eat;
took a carriage and drove through the town, and
thence to the beach, which was by far the most
interesting. The waves were billowy, and the
ocean wild, but it was more grand than in a calm,
and the effect upon the imagination was indescrib-
able. All that the poets have ever written, all the
bards have ever sung, all the eloquence of human
language fails, when compared to the reality itself,
when one comes into harmony with the voices of
many waters. But one cannot linger long even by
the seashore, if the time is limited, and ours was,
for we must do a certain amount of sight seeing
in a given time, so we drove on to the “Shell
Store,” where we alighted and examined the wares,
curiosities of various kinds from the sea, an end-
less variety of shells, corals, sea-weed, etc. One
might linger there for days, and marvel at the
works of nature even in the great deep, but we
only made a very few purchases and withdrew.
We had a fine view of the sea for many miles, in
fact until we reached the woods, and woods, in-
deed, it was—a forest of pines. The road for
some distance skirted a steep hill, where the tops
of the tall trees from the ravine below were almost
even with the road, and we were just as it were on
the edge of a bank, where, if we made any false 
move in driving, we would have been precipitated
hundreds of feet below.
	As we proceeded the country became more even
and the trees were so tall we seemed to look up
in vain to discern their towering height. At
length, after winding round and round these giants
of the forest, we reached what is known as the
“Big Trees,” and there we halted. 
	After making some inquiries about the train, we
concluded to dismiss the carriage, and wait there
for the train, though there is really nothing to see
except the mammoth trees. Some of the largest
trees have been named for the great Generals in 
the army; one of the very largest is called Gen.
Sherman, another Gen. Grant, and so on; two or 
three of them had been hollowed out by burning, 
and were like a room inside. Hundreds of cards
of people from all parts of the world were pinned
up inside these hollow trees. The height seemed
to us really more surprising than the circumfer-
ence. We wandered around through this grove
of big pines, our thoughts occupied not only with


what we could see, but with the history of the
past, what race of people had wandered through
these dense forests, and what was their condition
and customs, and their habits? Why was this
spot historical? Was there not a history more in-
teresting, if it were known, than just these wonder-
ful trees? But one can only conjecture and query
concerning past events, of which there is no
record, there is no one to answer the inquiries;
no Rip Van Winkle who has been sleep-
ing for centuries to come forth and en-
lighten us, though the place was weird
enough for hobgoblins and wizards; one
could almost fancy there would be something 
supernatural, but we saw nothing except a moun-
tain, stretched out dead that had been killed and
left upon the ground. While waiting here for the
train we had some conversation about South
America and other lands that lie beyond the sea
with a Dutch professor from Ghent in Belgium.
Adolph De Cueleneer, a professor of Art and An-
tiquites. He was quite entertaining, and was
very learned and had traveled extensively. He 
carried away several pieces of the wood from
these enormous trees, and some specimens of
plants. At length the narrow gauge train drew
up and we went aboard gladly for we were very
tired. The road lay along a very fine part of
the country; scenery charming, some autumnal
tints; though not the variety one finds here or in 
places where there are frosts to tone and color
them. The pepper trees are very handsome
indeed, graceful in shape and beautiful in con-
trast of color, the green leaves and bright red
berries. Pretty little towns and villages are 
scattered all along the way. The train passes 
through San Jose and Santa Clara, and we get a 
glimpse of the famous Lick Observatory as we
are leaving Santa Clara. It resembles in the dis-
tance a large square block of white granite up
among the clouds like a vast temple. We also
see the State  Insane Asylum, the third in Cali-
fornia it is near Agnews Station; it is an immense
brick structure, modern in style of architecture,
Nearing San Francisco we passed Riverside
Hotel, a summer resort well patronized.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball spent several weeks
there last summer visiting her brother, the pro-
prietor, Mr. Farley Granger well known to many
of our people. At Alameda we take the Steamer
for San Francisco, and the ride by moonlight with
the lights of a great city in view is lovely be-
yond description.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ANOTHER souvenir of the holidays and the New
Year is a Calender of 1889, fastened together with
rings and a chain to hang it by, and pretty little
ornamental cord and tassels. Outside are two
children among flowers, and the second page
represents the ringing of the bells, fastened to the
wheel of time. Each month has an appropriate
simile in the picture, and last of all a couple of
children swinging in a hammock. The design is
by J. Pauline Sunter, and the work is copyrighted
by Lee & Shepard, of Boston. The Calendar is
for sale at James Dwyer's book store, Main St.,
Salt Lake City. It is well worth purchasing, both
for beauty and utility. It is a delicate little me-
mento for an expression of affection or esteem.
	Two of the daintiest gift books we have ever
seen, are from Lee and Shepard, Boston, Mass.,
and are for Christmas and New Years. The one
for Christmas is entitled, "A Christmas Carol,"
with words from the gifted pen of Dinah Maria
Mulock. The pictures are exquisite, and are
suited to the verse of the poem upon the same
page. Outside the book is a picture repre-
senting a child under a tree filled with fruit, and
birds among the boughs. It is a very pretty de-
sign, and delicately drawn. The New Year's

[Column 2]

book is entitled, "A Friend stands at the Door,"
and the words are also by the late favorite author,
Dinah Maria Mulock. The outside leaf or cover
of the folio has a picture of a child in a bank of 
delicate flowers. This book represents the New
Year in poem and engraving as the other does 
Christmas, and it is impossible to say which is the
most beautiful. There are twelve leaves of heavy
cardboard, the best in quality, gilt-edged and
artistically fastened together with colored satin
ribbon. Among the collection of handsome holi-
day books there are none more suitable for a 
present. Each picture tells a story of itself in its
own beautiful way, and the verses are touching
and musical. The books are for sale at James
Dwyer's book store, Salt Lake City. Every lady
should examine these pretty specimens of art.
	THE marriage of Miss Rachel G. Foster, of
Philadelphia, was solemnized Nov. 8, at the
Spring Garden Unitarian Church, in Philadelphia.
The happy bridegroom is Mr. Cyrus Miller Avery.
The ceremony was performed by Rev. Charles G.
Ames, assisted by Rev. Annie Shaw. The recep-
tion was given at Pittsburgh by the many friends
of Mr. and Mrs. Foster Avery. Afterwards they
were to visit friends at Indianapolis, Louisville,
Chicago and Buffalo before returning to Philadel-
phia. Miss Foster has been an ardent advocate
of woman suffrage from her girlhood, and an
active worker for more than ten years. She was
chosen Corresponding Secretary of the National
Woman Suffrage Association when Mrs. Sara
Andrews Spencer resigned, and has for years
filled that position with ability, good judgment
and remarkable tact. The success of the Interna-
tional Council was largely due to the executive
ability of this young lady, as Miss Anthony very
gracefully acknowledged at the close of the session.
Mr. Avery, it is said, fell in love with her upon the
platform. We have the pleasure of knowing Miss
Foster personally, and have a most sincere ad-
miration for her many excellent qualities. She
understands how to be both just and generous to
all connected with the N. W. S. A., and is not
hampered with the prejudices that sometimes
hinder equality of representation and are barriers
to progress. We extend the most sincere con-
gratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Foster Avery, and
wish them every blessing in their new-found happi-
ness.
	THERE is quite an elaborate display being made
in the shop windows and stores for the holidays.
There never was a time when so much talent and
 ingenuity were displayed in making and selling
various articles for use and ornamentation as at
present. It would seem that everything had been
thought of that the human mind could conceive to
beautify the home and happify the heart. The large
windows of Z. C. M. I. are handsomely and taste-
fully arrayed, making a fine showing of elegant
goods. C. R. Savage's Art Bazar has a fine col-
lection of pictures and other things in their line
on exhibition, and they have a choice selection of
books. The views they have for sale, of their
own special work; of scenes in the Rocky Moun
tains, are a great attraction. Visitors to the city
and tourists make a specialty of views in and
around the Rocky Mountains. Mr. James Dwyer
is not behind any enterprising citizen in his stock
of Christmas presents nor in their qualities, in
excellence or beauty. He carries a very heavy
stock, perhaps the largest of any house of the
kind; at any rate, the variety seems endless, and
there are pretty articles with prices suitable to the
poor as well as the rich. No one need go without
a Christmas present to bestow, if the inclination
tends in that direction. Mr. Dwyer has among
his goods some very odd articles, that would
please the most unreasonable purchaser. Other
stores carrying a heavy amount of goods are mak-
ing the most of their opportunity at this auspicious
season of the year for a fine display, and inviting

[Column 3]

customers. It would not be possible to go into
detail in describing the Christmas goods. An ad-
miring public must see the effort made to please
and to solicit custom.
	Miss M. Glassford, of Chicago is in the city in
the interest of a medical work she is desirous of
circulating in the Territory. She is employing
agents to canvass for the work, both men and
women. The book is entitled, "The Practical
Home Physician." Sub-headings are, "A Popular
Guide for the Household," and "Management of
Disease, Giving the history, cause, means of pre-
vention and symptoms of all diseases of "Men,
Women and Children," and the most approved
methods of treatment with plain instruction for
the care of the sick. Full and accurate directions
for treating "Wounds, Injuries, Poisoning," etc.;
also giving a concise account of the structure and
functions of the human body, hygiene and rules of
health." The book is illustrated with handsome
colored plates.  It is written by four very learned
doctors—Henry M. Lyman, A. M. M. D., Chris-
tian Fenger, A. M. M. D., H. Webster James, A.
M. M. D., W. L. Belfield, A. M. M. D. The book
is certainly a very good one of its kind, and seems
more explicit in detail than many medical books.
It is a book that it would be well for any young
mother to have for reference; in fact such
books are needed in every family. The colored
plates represent the bones, nerves, arteries brain,
explaining each, with reference to the whole.
Another particular feature of the book is the pre-
paration of medicines and the plants used as in-
gredients; there are 16 pages of these plants, with
four on each page, making 64 varieties thus repre-
sented. The book contains nearly 1100 pages, and
is handsomely bound. It is printed in crown
type upon heavy paper. The volume contains
much very valuable information, and cannot fail
to be useful and beneficial in the community. The
names of the plants and all other explanations are
given in plain English, and can consequently be
perfectly understood. No Latin phrases used
It tells you how to prepare nourishing food for the
sick, and how to administer medicines, the quantity
of all kinds named, as well as the properties.


MRS. EAST'S LETTER.

MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG:
	DEAR SISTER:—I should have addressed you
ere this, but having delayed until your return, I
now proceed to give you a short report of my
labors in the Arizona settlements.
	In July, 1879, I received my appointment, and
was set part under the hands of Apostle Erastus
Snow to labor in the Eastern Arizona Stake, where
I visited, assisting in the organization of the Relief
Society, continuing to visit and hold meetings
until Oct., 1882, when I came over to Graham Co.,
which, at that time, belonged to Eastern Arizona
Stake, visiting the Saints in the Gila Valley; here
we find one of the most productive, fertile valleys
that the Mormon people have ever had the privi-
lege of colonizing, and I feel it a duty that I owe
to those who are not acquainted with the facts, to
correct the misrepresentations that have gone
abroad, that this is one of the most sickly coun-
tries inhabited by the Latter-day Saints; here in
the Pima Ward, where I reside, in one block of
the school there is over one hundred and fifty
scholars enrolled, and if there is a child sick with
chills or any other disease, I am not informed
of it. 
	The St. Joseph Stake was organized in 1883,
when I was appointed to labor in the great Stake
named in honor of the martyred Prophet, so stated
by Joseph F. Smith in a letter to my husband. He
said the Presidency sat in council and gave it that
name; said it was a very important Stake, includ-
ing three nationalities. The work has truly com-
menced among the house of Jacob, although there


is a lethargy among the people; we can see the
hand of God in colonizing this land, in fulfillment
of the saying of the great latter-day prophet.
	Apostle Thatcher said: "Brethren and sisters
many of you wonder why you are here, you have
left your beautiful homes surrounded with fruits
and flowers, let me tell you. God called you, He
wants you here. This was a great help to me to
labor in the uttermost part of the vineyard where
I can do some good.
	We have ten Branches of the Relief Society
in this Stake and some living active Saints among
the sisters; we hold our monthly meetings regu-
larly and take into consideration the nursing and
care of the sick, although there is not an Ac-
coucher with a diploma, in all the land there has
not been a single case lost in confinement, except
one and that was premature. I once heard
Prest. Young say he could organize two colonies
with the same climate and give one colony two
physicians the other none; leave them ten years
and the one without a doctor would outnumber
the other; so you see we have the privilege of
developing our faith."
	Prest. Layton has given us that encouragement
that is necessary for the advancement and pro-
gress of the Society, in fact, all of the organiza-
tion receives his attention. We have had no fines
nor imprisonments in this stake, which is attribu-
ted to his wise management and the mercy of
God in giving us a Governor that had soul and
brain enough to veto that unconstutitional and de-
basing test oath that was a disgrace to our Gov-
ernment, and painful to the heart of every patrio-
tic soul. What must be the feelings of the
framers of the constitution to look down and see
and hear a legal heir to that freedom they so
bravely won, receiving that detestable oath?
Ministering angels that bear messages to the
eternal worlds, stand recoiled and abashed with
horror at the sight.
		W. EAST.
	Pima, Graham Co. Arizona; Oct. 20, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ORGANIZATION.

DEAR EDITOR:
	With great pleasure I communicate to your very
interesting paper the following items from North
Point:
	On the 11th of September, 1888, we were visited
by Sisters M. I. Horne and Elizabeth Howard, and
by our Bishop and Counselors, assisted by Bishop
Schoenfield, of Brighton, we were organized into
a Relief Society. The following officers were
elected: Hannah Hanson, President; Margaret
Reid and Ann Williams, Counselors; Margaret A.
Hanson, Secretary; Rozina Rudy, Treasurer.
The officers were blessed and set apart under the
hands of the Bishopric.
	We had some good instruction given us, and
were encouraged in the duties we have to perform.
We held our first meeting on the 19th of Sept.,
1888.
	Praying that the blessings of God may be with
us all, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel.
	MARGARET A. HANSON, Secretary.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. P. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

CLARKSTON PRIMARY.
	Primary annual meeting of Clarkston, held
Nov. 5th 1888, Prest. C. Thompson presiding.
Singing. Prayer by O. A. Jensen. Singing.
Roll called. Minutes of previous annual
meeting read and accepted.
	Coun. Sarah Shumway asked the Bible ques-
tions, which were answered in concert; William
Shumway, recitation; Dannie and Eddie God-
frey, recitation from card on good manners;
Sister E. J. Jardine asked Bible questions,

[Column 2]

which were answered by the following little
girls: Katie Godfrey, May Jardine, Melissa
Griffin, Sadie Shumway and Susie Atkinson;
Ellie Ogilvie sang a song; Tommy Griffin, reci-
tation; May and Johney Jardine, a song.
	Bro. A. G. White addressed the children a short time.
	Dialogue, Annie Looslie and company; reci-
tation, George Sparks; Ellie Harris, Essay;
Maggie Jensen, recitation; Lettie Shumway,
recitation. Prest. Mary Griffin addressed the
children on obedience. Katie Myler and Ellen
Clark recited Motto Card, No. 5; Johnny
Thompson and Lettie Shumway recited the
Lord's Prayer.
	Sister Agnes Jardine Spoke to the children
in a very encouraging manner.
	Coun. O. A. Jensen gave a brief address,
touching on many useful matters.
	Prest., C. Thompson said she was greatly 
pleased with the way in which the exercises
had been rendered; she would like to have seen
more of the parents present. Told the children
they must all come to the party at 2 p.m.
Singing. Benediction by Prest. C. Thompson.
		SYLVA THOMPSON, Secretary.

UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the second conference of the Re-
lief Society of the Uintah Stake of Zion, which
convened in the Ashley meeting house, Sept.
2nd, 1888. Prest. Sarah Pope presiding. Sing-
ing. "Sweet is the work." Prayer by A. H.
Bartlett. Singing, "My God, the spring of all
my joys." Minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett said, "I feel it a duty
to arise when called upon to speak to my sis-
ters; I desire an interest in the prayers of all
present." Read a portion of a sermon preached
by Brigham Young eleven years ago, in Ogden,
at a Relief Society meeting, and printed in the
EXPONENT. It was a very appropriate piece
for the occasion, and all listened with intense
interest. Made a few remarks on the same.
Said how necessary it was for us to ask the
Lord to give us wisdom, that we may under-
stand the principles of the Gospel; mothers
should teach the first principles of the Gospel to
their children; the principles of the Gospel are
just the same to-day as they were in the rise
of the Church. Asked the blessing of the
Lord to rest upon all His Church in the name
of Jesus. Amen.
	The Reports from the different branches of
the Relief Society were read.
	Prest. Sarah Pope, "I am pleased to be with
my sisters here to-day, it does me good to see
everybody looking so comfortable and so well
clothed. Thirty years ago the people in Utah
did not have as much as they have to-day; if
we had a homemade dress on we were just as
happy and thankful as we are to-day, and per-
haps more so, because it was harder to get it;
to-day there is plenty of everything in our
midst, but do we appreciate these blessings? If
not we should. Thirty years ago a lady could
walk the streets of Salt Lake City in the night
if it was necessary, and there was no one on
the streets to say anything to her. Is that the
case to-day?" No, it is not. Our good govern-
ment thought they would send men here to
mend the morals of the people; but instead of
that they introduced evil practices to lead away
our children.	*	*	I ask the
Lord to bless us all, is my prayer in the name
of Jesus. "Amen."
	Meeting then adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing,
"I saw a mighty angel fly." Benediction by
Prest. Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon session: Prest. Sarah Pope presid-
ing. Singing, "Awake, ye Saints of God,
awake." Prayer by I. J. Clark. Singing,
"Afflicted Saints to Christ draw near." The
names of all the different presidents and their
counselors were read and sustained.

[column 3]

	Sister Caroline Stringam was called upon
to address the congregation for a short time.
Thought the brethren should feel interested in
our meetings, and try to help the sisters to get
to meeting, inasmuch as it is a duty the sisters
have to attend to; said parents should attend
Sunday School and Primary; also spoke of in-
structions she had heard Sister E. R. Snow
Smith give the sisters in times that were past.
	Sister Abagail Oaks made a few remarks on
passages that she had been reading in the Book
of Mormon, that were very interesting, and
spoke of what the Lord had in store for the
faithful.
	Coun. Elizabeth Mitchel gave the sisters
some good instruction concerning the wife's
care of the husband's earnings, and making
the best of everything.
	Prest. S. R. Bennion said, "I am pleased for
the opportunity I have of meeting with the
sisters to-day. We have had some good instruc-
tion from the sisters. I think the sisters of the
Relief Society have a great mission to perform,
and the young ladies should shun the company
of a young man who is in the habit of drink-
ing intoxicating drinks, or making light of the
principles of the Gospel; young ladies might
be able to do much good in this way; if a
young man thinks a young lady shuns him on
account of these things, he may try to be bet-
ter. May the Lord bless all the branches of
the Society in the Church, and enable them to
do right, is my prayer. Amen."
	Coun. R. S. Collett said he was pleased to
meet with the sisters, and to see the good spirit
that was made manifest by those that spoke,
and also the love that existed in families, and
the sorrow in parting, and the joy in meeting
again, and many more things that we have not
room for here; then asked the Lord to bless His
people.
	Prest. Sarah Pope made a few closing re-
marks, and reminded the sisters of our light
harvest in some parts of the valley, and that
we as wives and mothers should help our hus-
bands to take care of the wheat for bread, for
 it is better to go short of other things than
bread.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Sunday in
March, 1889. Singing. Benediction by
Philip Stringam.
		ADA LONGHURST, Secretary.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Hamilton Wilcox, in his "Women Suffrage
Notes in The Star, New York City, has some-
thing to say about "Women in the Presidential
Election," which we give below in his own
words.—ED.
	"The presidential result is now known—it
was not when last Sunday's 'Notes' were
written—and this fact is clear: the women de-
cided the struggle. The skill, the influence,
the money, the labor of two great parties about
balanced each other. By themselves, the men
were almost a tie vote. But the Republican
women's campaign, planned and carried
through by Judith Ellen Foster, turned the
scale, accepted and upheld as it was by Republi-
can committees generally. The eloquence, 
skillful management, dauntless courage and
steadfast devotion of Mrs. Foster, the eloquence
of Anna Dickinson, Marilla Ricker, and fifty
women speakers, the countless clubs of
Republican women, parading, working, elec-
tioneering for their party, brought to its aid a
power and an enthusaism strong enough to
sway the balance. The Democrats were
warned of their danger as soon as the Republi-
can women's campaign began, and were ad-
vised to call the Democratic women to their
aid; but they did not do so quick enough, nor
with the organization and system wherewith
the Republicans did it, and they did not,


therefore, enlist the numbers of women nor
rouse the enthusiasm that the Republican
managers did. They did not move in time to
counteract the force and effectiveness of the
Republican women's organizations. But the
mischief was done before their managers saw
what to do. Next time they must not be
caught napping, and they must take good care
mean time not to let their party be put in an
attitude of opposition to woman's freedom, for
women and their friends hold the balance of
power in every doubtful State.
	"Republicans, too, must not forget; now that
election is over, the debt they owe to their
feminine helpers. Wherever the State consti-
tutions do not expressly forbid, and the Re-
publicans control the Legislatures and Govern-
ors, laws should be at once passed relieving
their sisters from the burdens and wrongs of
disfranchisement. In every Territory where
the Republicans control the Legislature the
same should be done.
	"Republicans should remember that the
Woman Suffrage party are in a position to
punish them if they refuse to do justice to
woman. It was the persistent refusal of Re-
publican Legislatures to relieve women from
disfranchisement and the untruthful statements
of a Republican Attorney General against the
bill for that purpose which drove the suffrage
party's State Convention in 1884—made up
mostly of old Republicans—to reject a motion
to indorse the Republican ticket and vote to
be neutral. That Convention held that, thought
Blaine and Logan's personal friendship toward
woman's liberty was public and unquestioned,
the course of their party in the Legislature
had not entitled it to the support of suffragists.
Had the latter chosen, they could have reversed
the vote of New York and kept Cleveland out
of the White House; but the refusal of Re-
publican Legislatures to do justice to a million
and a half of citizens cost their party the
Presidency. It seems they learned enough by
this defeat to ask the women's aid in this can-
vass. Let us see now whether they have also
learned enough to treat their new allies justly.
	The woman suffrage party, though, are not
to be credited with the result of the election.
As both President Cleveland and General Har-
rison were friendly to woman's freedom, the
suffrage party as a body did not need to favor
one at the expense of the other. Some, as in-
dividuals, favored Cleveland, some favored
Harrison, and others favored one of the other
candidates, all of whom were friendly to suf-
frage. The result was determined by those of 
the suffrage women who followed Mrs. Foster's
lead, and by the mass of new political workers
whom these particular suffragists brought out.
	The women who exerted themselves for the
candidates of smaller parties have done little
good, if any. They have wasted their time,
their strength and their money—enough of
these to have gained splendid success if rightly
used—and have provoked much needless hos-
tility. Those who thought that they could
draw off votes enough from General Harrison
to defeat him by getting Republicans to vote
for a third candidate, have been terribly disap-
pointed. The outcome should teach them
wiser methods."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE ELECTORAL COLLEGES.

	The States having been all heard from re-
garding the Presidential contest, the next for-
mal procedure in the case is the assemblage of
the Electoral Colleges for the purpose of
choosing a President and Vice President of the
United States. This statement will cause a
feeling if not an expression of surprise with
many, who are led to suppose that the choice
was made Tuesday last. In one sense, they are
right; indirectly the election was completed
when the polls closed, but directly there wa

[Column 2]

no election of Chief Magistrate and his lieu-
tenant at all, only a choice of "electors."
This peculiar feature in the mechanism of the
government needs explanation to the class
spoken of, who, doubtless, have paid more at-
tention to any other prominent subject than to
politics.
	Each State of the Union is entitled to a
number of electors corresponding with its re-
presentation in Congress. No State has less
than three such delegates—two Senators and
one Representative. Each has the two Sena-
tors without respect to population, and also
one Representative no matter how limited the
number of inhabitants, but beyond this they
have additional Representatives only by ap-
pointment of Congress, which appointment is
always based upon the census previously taken.
For example, if Utah were admitted into the
Union today, she would be given two Senators
and but one Representative, no matter what
the number of her people; but if the census of
1890 showed that she had a population of 300-
000 say, or anywhere near that figure and the
basis of apportionment were fixed at 150,000 (it
is now about 140,000 we believe) for each re-
presentative, she would then be entitled to two,
and thereafter until the next census in 1900
she would have a delegation of four in Con-
gress and be entitled to that number of electors
at each Presidential election during the next
decade. All these in the different States are
chosen by the people on the same day, namely,
the Tuesday after the first Monday in Novem-
ber. The electors are not chosen by districts,
although each of them except the two at large
presumably represents a district, and in their
nomination reference is usually had to resi-
dence; the ballot of each and every voter in
the State contains or may contain at his option,
the names of all the candidates for electors to
which the State is entitled on the ticket he de-
sires to have succeed—thus, if he be a Demo-
crat, in New York he will choose a ticket hav-
ing not only the name of the elector presum-
ably representing his own district, but all the
others as well, and would thus vote for thirty-
six electors, the number which that State pos-
sesses. If the electors thus voted for have
more votes than any other party, the Demo-
cratic nominee for President and Vice Presi-
dent would be said to have carried the State,
and if enough States have gone the same way
to carry a majority of the whole number of
electors throughout the Union, the Democratic
candidates for these offices would be nomi-
nally elected. We say "nominally," because
technically, there would have been no election
of those officers. The electors so chosen meet
at the capitols of their respective States or
other place therein provided by local laws, on
a date fixed by national law, which may be any
week day after a reasonable length of time fol-
lowing the appointment of electors and before
the 4th of March following, the latter being
inauguration day. In the last election this was
the first Wednesday in December, but the date
has recently been advanced a month, so that
it now takes place in January.
	The electors when thus assembled are desig-
nated the electoral college, and when organized
they proceed formally to vote for a President
and Vice President of the United States. They
are not compelled to vote for any particular
person, so it will be seen that calling the voting
which takes place in November, the Presiden-
tial election is technically a misnomer, and
thereafter calling the candidates whose choice
is forshadowed President elect" and Vice-
President elect," is to apply misnomers. The
electors chosen on the Democratic ticket can
vote for the Republican candidates if they see
fit and vice versa, or both may be ignored and
men whose names have not even been mentioned
be legally voted for. But it is proper to say 
that no such instance of political treachery is
yet recorded in our history, the electors always

[Column 3]

voting in accordance with the preferences of
those who chose them. There was a departure
from this in the case of Horace Greeley in
1872, but there was nothing dishonorable in
the transaction, as he died before the college
met and many of his electors cast complimen-
tary ballots for their individual preferences.
	After the ballot for President and Vice Pre-
sident has been taken, the result is certified
to in triplicate; one of these certificates is for-
warded by special messenger to Washington,
who places it in the hands of the President of
the Senate, another is forwarded by mail to
that officer, and the third is deposited with the
judge of the district court for the district in
which the electors convened. On the second
Wednesday in February following, the two
houses of Congress meet in joint session, the
President of the Senate presiding; he then
opens the certificates and announces the result
in each case, concluding with an announcement
of the general result and a formal proclama-
tion by him that whoever may have been found
to have received the majority of all the votes
cast for President has been duly elected Presi-
dent and the same with regard to the second
position.
	All that there remains is for those who are
thus chosen to take the oath of office, which
generally takes place about noon on the fourth
of March following. The President and Vice-
President then enter upon the discharge of
their respective duties, those of the latter be-
ing merely nominal, and hardly that, unless
the Senate should be in extraordinary session at
the time, in which event he could, if he felt
disposed, preside over it, decide parliamen-
tary points, and have the casting vote when
there was a tie. This does not happen very
often, however.—Deseret News.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The marriage of Miss Rachel G. Foster and
Cyrus Miller Avery is disproof of the theory
that "platform women" are not attractive to
the opposite sex, for Mr. Avery fell in love
with Miss Foster at the Women's International
Council.
	The Twentieth Annual meeting of the
American Woman Suffrage Association was 
held in the Scottish Rite Cathedral, Cincinnati,
O , Nov. 20, 21, 22. The sessions were largely
attended, much interest was manifested, excel-
lent reports were made by the press and the
meeting was successful in every respect. Mrs.
Lucy Stone gave the annual report of the As-
sociation.
	The National Council of Women, of which
Miss Willard was made president at Washing-
ton, D. C., last spring, has for its object to
secure in every leading city and town of the
United States a "Woman's Council" made up
of the presidents of all societies of women,
having a headquarters of its own, with an
office secretary, entering unitedly upon such
lines of work as all the women can agree
upon.
	The Sixteenth Annual Congress of the Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Women was
held in the Church of Our Father, Detroit,
Mich, Nov, 14, 15, 16. Its coming had been
heralded by the Detroit Woman's Club in a
dainty souvenir, which told of the work of the
A. A. W., and of Michigan's Women's Clubs
and philanthropies. The platform on which
the representative women of the Woman's
Century assembled was most fittingly arranged
as a drawing-room, circled by a tier of chrysan-
themums, banked in profusion and topped by a
row of potted palms. The railing of the organ
loft and the background of the pulpit were
hung in silken folds of the tri-color of the
Detroit Woman's Club—white, blue and yellow.
Around the galleries were hung portraits of


men and women identified in sympathy, if not
by membership, with the mission of the Con-
gress. High up overhead was the shibboleth
of the association, worked in letters of ivy,
"Truth, Justice and Honor." Under this,
painted in three panels of white silk, were the
letters "A. A. W."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	The Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion will be held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms on Thursday,
Dec. 20th, 1888, commencing at 10 a.m., and
2 p.m.


OBITUARIES.

	On Monday, May 28, 1888, occurred one of the most
shocking fatalities that has ever taken place in Heber City,
Wasatch County. Mrs. Elizabeth Watson, wife of Thomas
S. Watson, was killed by a bull. The event was a great
shock to the community. Sister Elizabeth Watson was the
daughter of John and Janet Honeyman. She was born at
Anchtermuchty, Fife, Scotland, Dec. 2, 1835, and was
married to Thomas Watson at Kinross County. Scotland
on the 30th of March, 1863; in 1869 they emigrated to
America; leaving Glasgow on the 7th day of April of that
year, they stopped in Ohio about four months, and then
came on to Utah, arriving at Heber on the 24th day of
September, where they have resided ever since. Sister
Watson, was the mother of twelve children, eleven boys and
one girl, eight of whom have gone before her. Sister
Watson was a faithful member of the Relief Society, and
secretary of the Wheat Fund. She died in full faith of the
Gospel.
	Whereas, Providence has seen fit to call from our midst
our much esteemed sister and co-laborer in the cause of
truth to finish the labor so nobly begun on earth in a higher
sphere, we deeply sympathize with the bereaved husband
and four sons, and pray God to bless and comfort them in
the great loss they have sustained.
		MARGARET MUIR,
			President,
		ELLEN LEE,
		SARAH SMITH,
			Committee.

	Sister Ann Walmsley passed away from this life Nov. 16,
1888, at Preston, Idaho, having sustained injuries by falling
from a wagon, Aug. 23rd, 1886, since which time she has
been a great sufferer until a short time before her death
when she calmly fell asleep; and thus passed away with a
smile on her face. She was born in Lancashire, England,
Aug. 24, 1806, baptized July 30, 1837. She is said to be
the first woman baptized into the Church in England, Prest.
Heber C. Kimball officiating at the ceremony, In 1840
Sister Walmsley arrived in Nauvoo with her husband,
where she knew and associated with the Prophet and his
brother, Hyrum, and their families. Two years after she
with her husband, Bro. Thomas Walmsley, moved to a
place called, "Shock of Corn." twenty-five miles from 
Nauvoo, where he died and was buried in the woods.
Sister Walmsley then returned to Nauvoo in poor health,
with five sick children, having previously buried two. In
1849 she traveled to Salt Lake City, where she lived for
many years, afterwards moving to Bear Lake Valley, where
she has since resided. Sister Walmsley was ever ready to
bear her testimony to the truth of this work, and that
Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, having seen a great
many of his prophecies fulfilled. March 10, 1888 she had a
written request made out concerning her funeral, and
whom the speakers should be, wishing Bishop Wm. Hulme
to drive the team that bore her remains to their final rest-
ing place, he being second to none in her affections, having
lived neighbor to him for many years. All was done as she
wished. Sister Walmsley was the mother of ten children,
forty-six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren; four
of her children, thirty of her grandchildren, and six of her
great-grandchildren were in attendance at her funeral.
		E. C. PIGGOTT.
	Bloomington, Idaho, Nov. 25, 1888.


[Column 1]

A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.

	Died, in the Fifteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, Utah, Nov
19, 1888, Rebecca Maria, widow of the late N. V
Jones, and daughter of Samuel and Hannah Burton, and

[Column 2]

sister of Bishop R. T. Burton. Deceased was born in
Mercer, Essex Co., Upper Canada, Feb. 16, 1826. She
was baptized into the Church in January, 1838, when her
father's family received the Gospel at that place. Shortly
after the family started for Far West, Mo., but on account
of the expulsion of the Saints from that State, they did not
complete the anticipated journey, but located at Walnut
Grove, Illinois, in 1839.
	In October, 1844, the family went to Nauvoo, and on the
14th of March, 1845, Miss R. M. Burton was married to
Nathaniel V. Jones by Heber C. Kimball. In the spring
of 1846 Bro. and Sister Jones left Nauvoo, arriving in
Council Bluffs July 1, and on the 16th of the same month
her husband enlisted in the Mormon Battalion; at that
time she had a babe four months old. Subsequently Sister
Jones removed to Atchison Co., Mo, remaining there
until her husband's return from California iu August, 1847.
In August, 1849, Bro. and Sister Jones arrived in this city,
journeying with ox teams from the Missouri River; at that
time they had two children. They settled in the Fifteenth
Ward, and have kept the home there ever since.
	Bro. Jones was called away from home on several mis-
sions, and his wife was left with a little family to struggle
with the difficulties incident to the settling in a new country.
She bore her trials during this period of her life with un-
common bravery and fortitude, manifesting those sterling
qualities of character that help one to endure without mur-
muring the shifting changes of fortune in times of adversity
or affliction.
	On Feburary 16th, 1863, the 37th anniversary of her
birth, her husband died, leaving her with a family of little
children, to whom she must henceforth be both father and
mother as far as possible, and Sister Jones has ever since
remained a widow (twenty-six years), and by her untiring
industry and perseverance has raised her family temporally
and trained them in the principles of the Gospel.
She was ever a tender and affectionate mother, entering
into the feelings of her children, their trials or misfortune
with the most intense sympathy. The sad death of her
son, Fred. R. Jones, who was killed in New Mexico, was a
severe nervous shock to her system, and the constant care,
attention and solicitude occasioned by the delicate health
of her daughter, Mrs. Clara J. Young, for sometime previ-
ous to her demise, told heavily upon her both in mind and
body.
	Sister Jones was always faithful to the truth, firm and
unflinching in her integrity to the cause she had espoused so
early in life, and has been an active and efficient worker in the
Relief Society of the ward in which she resided ever since
it was organized in 1855, and for some years past held the
position of First Counselor to the President, Sister Sarah
M. Kimball, who will deeply feel the loss of so wise and
consistent an adviser and helpmate. She was kind and
sympathetic, as well as benevolent in her nature, and de-
lighted in ministering to the wants of the needy, and in
comforting the afflicted and distressed. Her record is
bright with good deeds, and her example noble and pure;
she continued acting in her public duties until a short time
previous to her death, though she was quite feeble in health.
On Sunday, Nov. 11th, she taught her class of young ladies
in the Sabbath School as usual, but that evening was taken
violently ill, with acute pain in her head. She suffered
very greatly until death came to her relief.
	Of Sister Jones it may be truly said, "Blessed are the
dead who die in the Lord." She has gone to join her
companion, the husband of her youth. her children, parents
and friends, Joseph, the Prophet, and the host of Saints
who have passed away.
	There is no need of sorrow or mourning for her, she has
gone to her rest, having "fought the good fight and kept
the faith." May her noble and righteous example be fol-
lowed by her children, that they may attain to the same 
exaltation and inheritance, and meet their mother again,
where there is no more sorrow, pain or parting forever-
more.
	The funeral of Sister Jones was held in the Fifteenth
Ward meeting house, on Thursday, the 21st of November,
and was largely attended. The stand was beautifully
draped in white, and flowing trailing vines aristically
hung among the soft flowing drapery. There were also
many gifts of flowers from loving friends.
	The speakers were, first, Bishop Samuel Woolley, of the
9th Ward, who had accompanied Elder N. V. Jones, hus-
band of the deceased, on his mission many years ago to the
East Indies. The next speaker was Elder Elias Morris,
who had known Sister Jones for many years. Bishop O.
F. Whitney followed Bro. Morris, and then Prest. Angus
M. Cannon and Bishop Pollard.
	All the speakers testified to her faith in the Gospel, her
integrity to the same, her many excellent and lovable

[Column 3]

qualities, her patience and heroism under the most trying
circumstances. Sister Jones selected the hymns she would
like sung at her funeral; one of them was the very appropri-
ate funeral song, "Come, come unto me, all ye Saints who
have died," and another, "There is sweet rest in heaven."
The singing was by the ward choir, and was rendered in
the most tender and touching style, the voices blending in
such melody that it was like heavenly music.
		E. E. W.
	
	Rebecca M. Jones, Counselor in the Fifteenth Ward
branch of the Relief Society, died Nov. 19, and was buried
with Relief Society honors, on Wednesday, 21st inst., from
the Fifteenth Ward Assembly Hall.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Whereas, in the dispensation of Divine Providence, our
beloved sister and counselor and co-laborer, has departed
this life, and ceased her earthly labors,
	Resolved, That we lovingly cherish the memory of her
peaceful influence, and her untiring efforts to promote and
sustain Relief Society interests.
	We commend her impressive example in imploring God's
blessing on the afflicted everywhere, and her pleadings in
behalf of the wayward.
	We bless the memory of her dear, diligent hands which
reached out in blessings for the needy, in administrations
for the sick, carried consolation to the bedside of the dying
and assisted in the last sad rites for the dead.
	That while we endeavor to bow submissively to this be-
reavement, we extend deep sympathy to the family and
more immediate friends.
	We would add that a life so rich in experience and so
beneficient in its labors for the good of humanity must reap
the reward of eternally reciprocated love, and be crowned
with unfading glory.
	That we have these Resolutions spread on our minutes
also preserved in our historical record books and published
in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		SARAH M. KIMBALL,
	In behalf of the 15th Ward branch of Relief Society.


R. K. THOMAS 
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.	
	112,	114,	116,	118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.

Address, DAVID JAMES Box 300, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1888.	NO. 14.


[Column 1]

THE WEDDING OF THE KING.

O'er all the earth the human tribes waged warfare, man to
	man,
Like fires that sweep the praries wild, their ruthless passion
	ran.
O, not alone the Heathen's hate, spurned mercy, fear or
	right,
Their Christian brothers led the way like lions in their might.
Earth's mighty trees bore on their trunks the wounds of
	shot and shell,
And dainty flowers and waters clear, the blood stain bore
	as well.
Beside his tent, upon his bow and spear, the dark man
	slept,
And sleepless watch, beside the wall, the white faced sentry
	kept.
And women's songs were turned to tears beside their
	children's bed,
Too often, prayer was hushed, to hear the flames hiss o'er
	their heads.
Ah, nowhere on the earth might these find hours of peace
	again,
Since war had loosed her hounds in hordes, o'er mountain,
	forest, plain.
As though aghast at deeds of men, the skies hung dark and
	low,
Nor answered to the wind and rain, the once bright, glorious
	bow.
All nature seemed at variance with her established laws,
And earthquake's terrors broke between the tempest's fitful
	pause.
Now lurid gleamed through heavy clouds the lightning's
	vivid flame,
And in the once blue arch above, strange signs of nature
	came.
The heavy seas far inland rolled their waves of gloom and
	death,
And farther backward rose in clouds the plauge's black,
	poison breath.

O, all the hearts of men grew sick, at last, with deeds of sin,
And bowed in fear before the power that mocked their souls
	within:
Their puny wrath that laid in wreck the work of ages old.
Lay prone before the Mightier, that man could not control
Then came the time of penitence, and hope of death to
	some,
While others still their Maker mocked, or in despair were
	dumb.

Yet, far away in mountain vales one kingdom stood alone,
From ev'ry land they gathered there around its steadfast
	throne.
Lo! peace and plenty blessed their land, firm faith their
	spirits thrilled;
There the distressed found in their midst, justice and love
	fulfilled.
In ministrations diligent they stood a noble band,
And watched unshrinking through the storm, the Father's
	guardian hand.

There came at last to weary earth a time of rest once more,
Like the blest ease that comes to man when fever's work is
	o'er;
A partial peace like that which rests in homes where one
	has died,
For suffering ended. Ah, this hush of hearts on every side
Yet slowly strength and peace returned, the lonely cry was
	stilled,
And myriad souls looked up to learn the way the Father
	willed.

The skies once more shone bright and clear, yet, in their
	endless blue,
Came wondrous signs that Saints adored, and knew their
	portent true.
The wandering winds strayed idly by, as troubadours of old
For love of all things beautiful, in blissful pleasure strolled;

[Column 2]

Rains that refreshed the thirsty earth, fell soft as evening
	dew,
And snows that cloaked the mountains old, no icy coldness
	knew.
The bright winged creatures dreamily went lilting all along,
The flowers were fairer, and more sweet, each creature's
	voice and song.

The humbled tribes of every land their loyal homage brought
And came, to gaze of wondering men, the Lost Tribes
	vainly sought.
One message blest, reached every heart and ruled in every
	land,
The Gospel's high and kingly power prevailed on every
	hand.
O, earth in peace and beauty drest, ne'er was so bright be-
	fore,
Since human ills and nature's frowns were ended and no
	more.

There came a day, a lovelier than man remembered yet,
When gathered in fraternal love His chosen children met.
A glorious tower, not built by hands, reached up from earth
	to sky,
Its summit hid in fleecy clouds that veiled it from the eye.
Long waited there the faithful band in silence and in prayer,
Till flesh was weary; then a sound of music rent the air.
Quick raised each eye to whence it came, when through
	the riven blue,
The flash of golden instruments burst on the watcher's
	view.
Those golden harps! their thrilling strings spoke to the
	trembling soul,
Those golden trumpets! loud and clear, they swelled above
	the whole;
The blest musicians, as they stood in trailing robes of
	white,
The raptured singers—lifting up their faces' pearly light;
They led adown a winding stair from tower's height to base,
A wondrous, radiant pageant of heavenly power and grace.
Behind their white feet followed One, most glorious to view,
Celestial beauty in His form, yet gentlest movement too;
Those eyes that read all human thought and blessed each
	trembling soul,
O, every heart bowed down within in ecstacy untold!

Then followed still a solemn throng in even step and time,
And chanted in one chorus grand a hymn of joy sublime.
They stepped upon the rude, brown earth, the throng below
	joined in,
And followed to a Temple's door, where all was light
	within.
The clasp and kiss of parted souls united once again,
The riven veil twixt life and death, twixt Zion's past and
	then!
For rusted chains that martyr's wore, their golden crowns
	were wrought.
For women's tears o'er martyrs shed, lo, priceless pearls
	were brought.
O, that was wondrous joy, indeed; too vast for human
	tongue,
And through it all, in harmony, the glorious words they
	sung!

Around the table gathered all, the Church above, below;
The marriage supper oft foretold by prophets long ago.
There was no light of moon or sun, or golden censers
	bright—
There was no need—the Bridegroom was their living life and
	light.
No gate was closed, for only they whose right it was came
	in,
There was no danger and no tears, for all were pure from
	sin.
They who had suffered for His sake drank wine with Him
	again;
Lo, earth was free, her Lord was here, her King, the
	Prince of men.

		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	Contributor Prize Poem


THE CHRISTMAS TREE.

	What a busy, noisy day it has been; storm
and sleet outside, so that all had to stay within,
and the sweet little ones have romped and
danced about in the noisiest, prettiest way, and
now night has come on, and the pretty golden
heads are resting on the snowy pillows, and the
house is still; no sound but the gentle, quiet
breathing of the children, the occasional wail
of the wind, as he sweeps around the house
corners and the soft dropping of the filmy
snow. I sit and gaze in the dying fire, and
fancied pictures come and go among the glow-
ing coals. How near to Christmas it is; only a
few more days, and oh, how different from the
Christmas's of other years. I dream, as the
coals gleam and drop, of the long ago, and
sweet visions of loved, lost faces pass before
me; days of joy and days of sorrow blending
bright and sober colors appear, as twilight with
its grey and golden tints. Wandering thoughts
and vaguest dreams circling round among the
embers seem to center now.
	A dozen years or more have passed, and be-
fore me is a vision of the happiest, gayest
Christmas all the years have ever brought.
How joyous we were that night, all the loved
ones there, and we sang and laughed and
talked of merry things, and the little ones
danced around and begged for stories of Christ-
mas cheer, scarcely dreaming how the hours
sped, until the old clock tolled the twelve
ominous strokes, and then the church bells be-
gan to ring their merry Christmas's to the
people all around; the hour, the auspicious
hour, when older folks bid each other good
cheer, when the youth try first to call out
"Christmas Gift," and the little ones see visions
of Santa Claus riding over the house tops
driving those gay reindeers with his sleigh
heaped full of pretty things. Hark, did you
not hear his bells? and now they have stopped,
stopped, right at our door; can it possibly be
that he is coming here, and we all awake to see
him? Certain there is a knock, oh, so loud,
pray do let him in? How they laugh, those
older ones, and the little ones, half in fear, half
admiration, and all expectancy, hover near the
mothers, while this great, white-bearded, snow-
covered man walks proudly in, as though all
belonged to him, and never halts until the cor-
ner of the room is reached, where, for two
long days a mysterious curtain has hung, and
now, to the magic touch of this Northern king, 
it drops, and lo ! the tree, the bright, glimmering
Christmas Tree. Oh, how our hearts leap and
our voices shout! What a happy, lovely sight !
The pretty colored lights, the gaily dressed
dolls, the boys drums and sleds, the banners
and balls and ribbons and trains, and oh, did
ever any one such a sight before behold ! Quiet,
now ye have gazed awhile on that smiling,
glimmering, dazzling tree, now hear what Santa
Claus has to say. He must hasten, there are
so many such to uncover to-night, and he
must speed away, but he tarries awhile to un-
loose a few of the gifts from the tree.
	First, our sweet little invalid, with her beau-
tiful golden curls and thoughtful eyes, yes, she
little precious heart, her pretty gift must have;
then rollicking, noisy Onie, that the rest may
hear themselves think; then dreamy, brown-
eyed Belle, that she may wake long enough to
see what Christmas has brought her; and now
our dear singing boy, whose cunning songs
have so cheered us to-night, and so on until


each little heart is made happy and light.
Then the older ones receive attention, and all
are served, and the wonderful man, with his
snowy coat and funny voice, bids us all "good
morning, and a merry Christmas."
	He is gone, gone! the door is closed, and the
jingle of the bells tells he is on his way to other
homes. A comparing of the pretty things, a
little more joking and laughing, some music,
a Christmas carol from our beautiful Louise,
and the little one's eyes grow dim, and peaceful
sleep embraces them, while some one enters
now, not a great white man, but a beautiful,
laughing girl, calling Christmas gift to all
around, and flitting from one to another with
her bright, cheery words. Who is she, this
lovely girl, who carries light into the room as
the waxen candles are fading. who brings such
joy to our hearts on this cold Christmas morn-
ing? It was our Santa Claus, but now it is
only Our Em. What matter that our brother
had to go out in the cold unwrapped. while she
had purloined his big rough coat and covered
it with cotton and spangles; what matter that
the bells were missing when the sleigh had
to be used; what matter that the lights went
out in the hall just when the children were
romping there; it is all plain enough now, and
the happy hour with Santa Claus atones for
every inconvenience, and the bright hour with
the past to-night, atones for the rainy, dismal
day.
	She is gone now, our Em, and others as
dearly loved have joined her, and it is only at
times like these, when we can draw a curtain
over the present and gaze into the glowing
coals and fancy pictures there, that "the tender
grace of a day that is dead" can ever be re-
called.
	Annie W. [-]annon CAMELIA.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE CHILDREN'S CHRISTMAS.

	All the children are on tiptoe with expectancy
just before Christmas time. What would
Christmas be in fact if it were not for the chil-
dren? It seems as though Christmas was
CHILDREN'S DAY and so it ought to be, for it
it is celebrated in honor of the most royal
babe that was ever born upon the earth.
Our blessed Savior, whose coming was heralded
by hosts of angels singing and a new star
arose in the east, and there was great rejoicing
in heaven as well as upon the earth, when the
heavenly choirs joined in the anthem that
ushered in the new born king.
	And so at Christmas time it is customary to
rejoice in the day set apart as the anniversary
of his birth, and there is great reason for joy
and gladness. The children should be happy,
even if they do not have so many beautiful
things, and so much to eat.
	The children are overflowing with exuberance
now-a days when Christmas comes round
there is so much merriment and festivity, and
they have more than a good time; in fact, it is
impossible to express in words the gladness that
beams in their radiant faces. I wonder some-
times if they really ever do stop to think of all
the pleasures that are planned for them. If I
had plenty of leisure, I'll tell you what I
would do for the children at Christmas. I
would have a children's party; not a fancy
ball, nor a dinner party either, but a story
party; and I would gather as many of the
little folks as my house would hold, and sit
down in their midst and tell them stories, and
they should be real stories; and I should feel
fully repaid with the sparkle of the bright
eyes, and the pleasure it would be to them.
In fact I think perhaps they have too many
toys and gay dresses, and sweetmeats, and sim-
ple tales well told would be a nice change, and
then they would keep so quiet, and listen, in-
stead of making such an uproarious noise as

[Column 2]

they often do with drums and trumpets and all
manner of toys, until mamma and papa and
grandma are tempted to wish that Santa Claus
would never come again.
	I have been waiting and looking for some
one to send me a story for the children this
Christmas, but I have decided at last that the
best way to do, is to depend upon one's self, but
I'll tell you what I think the reason is, there
are so many dolls to dress and pies and pud-
dings to make, and turkeys and chickens to
be roasted, and so many stockings to darn and
buttons to sew on, and dear little stockings to
hang up in the corner; and then you know
there are so many story books to buy, that I
guess the ladies who write for the EXPONENT
think it is not necessary. I know the children
like the stories they hear better than those they
read, and that is the reason I would like to
tell one, better than to write it, yet, if I had
not put it off so long I would write a story
myself, but may be it would be a sad one, be-
cause I know of many little ones, they call
them foundlings, who have no nice home, no
big sisters to dress their dolls, nor not even a
mamma or grandma, and I've been thinking a
great deal lately about these little darlings and
wondering whether Santa Claus had been told
about these forlorn little ones or not. I saw a
whole house full of them not long ago in a
great city by the seashore, and I thought
then of our little folks here at home, and the
beautiful young mothers, so proud and happy
for their sakes; and the dear grandma's and O,
so many things that I cannot tell you now,
but one thing I will tell you—and it is—that
all these little children want somebody to love
and kiss and caress them, and their little hearts
pine for love, even if they have ever so many
nice things, for love is the best of all; how
cold and dreary this world would be if there
was no love in it. Children cannot be happy
without love and they are entitled to it; it
is their right and legacy, and if Santa Claus
should bring to these motherless waifs, lots of
pretty gifts, they would want the love all the
same; and if we could have more real true
love in the world we would all be happier for
it. Jesus loved little children, He took them
in his arms and blest them, and told His
disciples to be like unto them or they could not
enter the kingdom of heaven. And He will
not forget the motherless ones,and the Heavenly
Father's care will be over them, and our
dear little children in Zion should be not only
happy and joyous, but grateful for the pleasant
homes, kind parents, and the love that fills
their hearts to overflowing, and especially on
Christmas.

	"God rest you, little children,
		Let nothing you affright,	
	For Jesus Christ your Savior 
		Was born this happy night."

	And perhaps I	ought to tell you why I so
love the children, and think so much about
them, and feel so anxious to do something for
them:

	"Because of little death-cold feet for earth's
		Rough roads unmeet,
	I'd journey leagues to save from sin or harm
		Such little feet;
	And count the lowliest service done for them 
		So sacred—sweet!"

	I wanted to tell you a story children, but it is
too late now, and you cannot all come and
listen, so I think I will write one and your
mamma will read it to you after Christmas is
past, and it shall be a true one, even if it makes
you cry, as it does me on Christmas night.
	AUNT EM.


There are now about forty ordained women
ministers in the Universalist Church.


A VETERAN MOTHER. 

	On the 20th of November last, Sister M. 
Isabella Horne reached the alloted age of 
three score and ten, or her seventieth anniver-
sary, which occasion the family had always
intended to celebrate by coming together, and
to make it a time of special rejoicing and fes-
tivity.  But unforeseen circumstances marred
their plans, and on that day the entire family 
was in deep grief; the anxious and devoted 
mother was watching with tender solicitude by
the sick bed of her eldest daughter, who died a 
few days later.  Mrs. Elizabeth H. Webb
died Nov. 27th 1888, at her home in Oasis, 
Millard county, after having endured much
suffering which she bore with great patienceand
fortitude.  A few weeks before she had given 
birth to her sixteenth child.  Her father and
mother were by her in her last moments, also
her husband and children, and if love and
intense devotion could have saved her life, she
would have been spared.  But a wise and loving
Father, who doeth all things well, saw fit to 
call her hence, and it is meet to bow in humble
resignation to the divine will and to say, "The
Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away, blessed
be the name of the Lord."
	Therefore it was a time of mourning, on 
Sister Horne's birthday, and consequently there
was no family gathering except at the solemn
funeral rites afterwards on the 28th.  But the
scriptures says "It is better to go to the house
of mourning than the house of feasting," and
Sister Horne's numerous friends, even those
who did not assemble on the sad occasion to 
express their sympathy, felt deeply for her in 
her unexpected bereavement, and would gladly 
have offered the only consolation possible at 
such a time, that of words of hope and sincere
affection.  But we all know how poor and 
weak language is to express sympathy in sor-
row, and that only the Holy Spirit can give
true comfort.  And while Sister Horne's
friends extend their heartfelt sympathy in her
bereavement they also congratulate her on
having attained the age that entitles her to 
enter the ranks of a veteran mother in Israel, 
with all the honors of a long life of good works
and noble deeds; as well as a numerous poster-
ity, who rise up and call her blessed, her hus-
band also, and he praiseth her.  "Yea verily,
she stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea she
stretcheth forth her hand to the needy."
	Sister Horne's mission since the first organ-
ization of the Relief Society has been an active
one in the field at home and among this people. 
She has acted well her part; has been wise in 
her endeavors to help and to bless, and has not
only been known for her benevolence and 
charity in her own neighborhood and ward, 
but far and wide; and for many years since her
children were grown up and could take the
care and responsibility of household duties
from off her hands, she has given almost her
whole time to the public.  Wherever and
whenever duty called, or an opportunity offered
itself, she has been valiant in the good cause, 
and her name is known and honored through-
out all Israel. 
	The poem published in this issue is indica-
tive of the intense love and appreciation of her
children, written by a dutiful and affectionate
daughter as a tribute to a beloved mother, and 
filial love is always beautiful. 
	During the last year and a half Sister Horne
has travelled thousands of miles, and has had
many excellent opportunities of conversing 
with strangers upon the principles of the Gospel
which she has always improved by seeking to 
allay prejudice and presenting the simple
truth.  That she may live yet many years in 
full enjoyment of all her faculties and continue 
to labor for Zion, until she has accomplished
the fulfillment of her mission in the earth, is 
the wish of the writer. 			E.  B.  W.,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO MY MOTHER,
MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE, ON THE SEVENTIETH
ANNIVERSARY OF HER BIRTH.	

My heart is filled with gratitude and praise
To Him who kindly lengthened out thy days,
That thou might’st live to celebrate on earth,
The Seventieth Anniversary of thy birth.

In life’s long drama thou hast played a part,
Requiring true integrity of heart,		
Wisdom unbounded, courage, strength of mind,
With patience, love and charity combined.

And since, obedient to thy Father’s will,
Thou cam’st to earth a mission to fulfill, 
Hast striven humbly thy life-work to know,
And nobly filled thy mission here below.

Armed with virtue, purity and truth,
Thou passed unscathed the trying scenes of youth,
And entered woman’s realm of usefulness,
A spirit pure, to comfort, cheer and bless.

United, then, to one of sterling worth,
An honest man, a noble son of earth,
A wife’s whole duty thou didst strive to do,  
As faithful helpmeet, and wise counselor, too.

The Gospel plan was then to thee made known,
The way to life and exaltation shown; 
Thy soul rejoiced the heavenly truths to hear,
And faithful proved through each succeeding year.

Though trials came, thy heart with grief to fill,
Thou bow'st in meek submission to His will
Who doeth all things well.  He knows thy heart,
To thee a crown of glory will impart.
But not till charms of motherhood were thine,
Did thy true woman's soul resplendent shine.
Thou art, indeed, with virtues manifold,
A mother, of the purest, truest mould.

With many gems thy mother's crown is set, 
O, may they never cause thee to regret
The years of toil, care, suffering without measure.
Thou hast endured to give them life and pleasure.

And though some jewels rare that thou hast worn,
Hath from thy earthly crown with grief been torn,
They sparkle yet in realms of purity,
And thine shall be through all eternity.

Oh, how can words our loving thoughts express?
They seem so cold, so weak, so meaningless:	
The heart’s affections they cannot reveal, 
The depth of love and gratitude we feel.

May heaven bless thee! angels hover near,
To shield, protect, to comfort, bless and cheer;
May life, health, peace, prosperity be thine, 
And every blessing round thy pathway shine.

And though my heart would other words dictate, 
I will refrain, and humbly dedicate
These simple lines to her who gave me birth,
A loving tribute to a mother’s worth.
								M. H. T.
Nov. 20, 1888.


[column 1]
			  REMINDERS.
	"Let fate do her worst, there are moments of joy,
	Bright dreams of the past, which she cannot destroy,
	Which come in the night time of sorrow and care,
	And bring back the features that joy used to wear."

	One of the best reminders of the good old
days, is holiday week.  It is also a rejuvenator
to young and old.  Everybody expects to be
on their good behavior and to have some little
leisure; to lay aside for the time, as it were, the
every day homely cares of life and take up the
wand of enchantment that turns everything it
touches into joy and gladness.  He who is not
happy, who carries with him some great sorrow
anticipates ministering to the happiness of
others, and in so doing forgets his own grief.
How sublime the self-forgetfulness that many
people exercise on holiday occasions.  I never
could understand why some people dislike holi-
[column 2]
days, for even though we do double duty, it is
of such a pleasant nature, that it buoys one up
instead of depressing the spirit.
	Happy mothers in pleasant homes all over
the broad land, are preparing and arranging
for the Christmas Holidays; every pulse thrills
with joy at the anticipation of the advent of
"Santa Claus," and even in the poorest, hum-
blest homes, there are gladder thoughts at
Christmas time, for there are many benefactors
who remember the needy, and give liberally of
the abundance which it has been their lot to
possess.
	To the children Christmas is a time of feast-
ing and festivity—merry laughter and glad-
some mirth, but to those who have arrived at
the soberer period of life, and who have battled
much with the cold, hard world, it is a sort of
rest by the wayside, where for a little time
they gather-fresh hope, from bright flowers,
woven into memory's garland, that were culled
in the days gone by and linked with the silver
cords of love that thrill through every fibre of
the human heart at the gentlest touch.  Each
one of these giving both pleasure and pain, and
each one having its own peculiar history.

	"When time has past and seasons fled,
	Your hearts will feel like mine,
	And aye, the sang will maist delight
	That minds ye o' lang syne."

	Even the children will stop in the midst of 
their wild delight or noisiest games to listen to
the song, or story of olden times, for there is a 
charm about the old, that fascinates the ear,
and in imagination we draw a picture, we can-
not help it; we think of the stories we have
heard from the beautiful lips now closed in
dreamless sleep, and the very remembrance
stimulates us to so perform our part on like
occasions, that our children and our friend's
children may remember us, as lovingly as we
do those, who gladdened our hearts by their
presence and contributed to our entertainment
in the long ago.  We even recall the very
look, the manner, the dress and aye the tone of
voice of those who were our good angels in
former Christmas days.  We know how the
church was decorated and festooned and how
the great bell pealed forth as it were the an-
thems of gladness.  The evergreens were to us
symbols of that affection, which neither cold
nor heat could ever change, but would always
be fresh and green at whatever season.
	The great wide open fire-places were always
inviting, and the turkey that swung to and fro
on the spicket, growing browner and browner,
is one of the incidents memory has no power to
efface.  "There were giants in those days," as
well as "fairies and elves," and there were those
who fancied ghosts still hovered round, casting
their gloomy shadows over the happiest fire-
sides, and the hobgoblin tales that make the
children's eyes sparkle with delight, have been
handed down from generation to generation,
and are still repeated with the same gusto.
And in those holiday evenings, after the savory
dinner, and dessert of plum puddings, pies,
cakes and fruits, then followed the gathering
in groups around to hold sweet converse.  Al-
most every country house is profusely, if not
artistically, decorated with evergreen in boughs
and vines, and the aroma of the woods is in the
atmosphere of the rooms; one could almost 
imagine himself in an open forest, so odorous
is  the air with these delightful perfumes.  Red
and white winter berries peeping out from
among the evergreens, make a most tasteful
picture.  These are little things, but children
never forget them; they make an impression
upon the mind lasting as life itself, and one
who in childhood has been accustomed to such
scenes and gatherings can shut his eyes any-
where, even in a foreign land, and see the place,
the friends, the details of the room, and almost
hear the merry laughter and the music.  As the
poet has said,
[column 3]
	"It haunts me still, though many a year has fled,
	Like some wild melody."

	I know there are matter-of-fact people who
think the money spent for evergreens or flowers, 
is simply thrown away, when one cannot go
into the woods and gather them free, which is
of course ever so much jollier, and they will fre-
quently remark, it would buy so much meat,
sugar, or some substantial; but on festive oc-
casions, birthdays, or holidays, I would very
much prefer a few flowers, and some wildwood
branches, or tangled vines, to such an elaborate
dinner or repast as is usually served up to
tempt the appetite.  Eating is not one’s whole
object in life; simple fare, with peace and con-
tentment, is more conducive to health and
happiness, and, I might add, a long life as
well.
	Many a time and oft have I strolled through
woods and groves in holiday time, to gather
the woodland trophies of pine, spruce and hem-
lock boughs, and the trailing vines that lie
buried under a mass of dead leaves, and old
moss, when perhaps the snow, too, had covered
them deep, but we heeded it not—we were
youthful and exuberant, the pulse of life was
quick, and we only looked upon it as a part of
the holiday fun—then, turning our faces home-
ward, fancied ourselves wood nymphs, so fan-
tastic would be our appearance among the
boughs and vines, and we would repeat to each
other the most weird and frightful legends we
could recall,—especially the boys, who delighted
in teasing and frightening, if possible, the
timid girls; hiding in hollow logs and springing
out suddenly in lone places, to make us run 
and scream, but all was fair at the holiday
season, and an offence was usually forgiven
with a kiss, for these, you know, are always
plenty, when good humor and merriment
abound.
	Music and dancing are generally a part of
the holiday entertainment, and the old dances, 
such as the Scotch Reel and Sir Roger de
Coverly, are most in favor, but the good old
songs and stories please the children, and we
ransack memory's cabinet where many precious
gems lie hidden 'mid cobwebs and dust, to re-
call the words, once so familiar to our ears.
Tears sparkle in the eye, and great sobs swell
up in our throats, forbidding utterance for a
moment, as we are reminded of the sweet
voices that once mingled in glad chorus with
the happy throng around the hearthstone in
the old, old home.  But life is made up of
sunshine and shade, and "'tis sweet to remem-
ber" e'en though there were some paths thickly
strewn with thorns, yet there were blossoms too,
and the joy was more exquisite by contrast.
	"There's a feeling within us that loves to revert
	To the merry old times that are gone."

	"O, how glorious 'twill be," when we will be
able to sit down and converse with those now
"beyond the gates," and recount the many
scenes, over which "memory loves to linger."
But while here let us enjoy the blessings vouch-
safed by our Father in heaven, not forgetful of
the little courtesies and attentions that are so
charming coming from those we love, and that
give zest to the amusements and festivities
whether in the halls of the rich or the cottages
of the poor.
						     AUNT EM.


The women of Ohio organized a State Coun-
cil at Columbus, October 11, with Dr. Martha
May Howell, of Cleveland, as President, and
Dr. Juliet Monroe Thorp as Secretary.
	In consequence of the death of Dr. Rachel
Bodley, Pundita Ramabai's book is placed in
the hands of the W.T.P.A. Orders should
be sent as follows: To Pundita Ramabai, care
Woman's Temperance Association, 161 La Salle
Street, Chicago.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 15, 1888.


[Column 1]
			CHRISTMAS 1888.
	Christmas is at hand, and the city seems to be
alive with display for the festive occasion. All
around are evidences of the approaching event.
Who would have believed forty years ago, that
such a showing of good things, and of beautiful
things, of all kinds and in every variety could
have been made in these mountain vales. Another
sort of life has dawned upon the people since that
primitive time; plenty has showered in upon the
inhabitants of Zion, or one would naturally think
so, if they walked abroad at mid-day and gazed
about; and at night the place is resplendent with
lights, that show off to advantage the gaily dressed
and decorated shop windows. One can scarcely
decide what to buy, there is so much to choose
from. Truly the Lord has comforted Zion with
the good things of the earth, and prosperity
abounds on every hand; none need go hungry or
destitute within all her borders, for the system of
organization is so perfect that it reaches every
individual. And the Saints delight in giving
liberally of the abundance with which the Lord
has blessed them.
	There are some circumstances one could wish
were otherwise; for instance, many of the good
brethren are in prison for conscience' sake, and
that will cast a gloom over the home, where the
husband and father is absent on this account, but
even this is better than being a free man at the
sacrifice of principle; and there is comfort in the
thought that one is suffering for keeping a higher
law, rather than for disobeying a commandment
of God, as many are in this Christian land, that
boasts of its high civilization and enlightenment.
	It is good to have such occasions as these to
warm up the heart and awaken a fresh interest in
the welfare of others. It keeps one from growing
selfish, to be, as it were, constrained now and then
to stop in the midst of care and a press of busi-
ness to take a little respite, and enter into the joys
of his own household, perchance, and partake of
the good cheer, that is so plentiful whenever holi-
day time comes round. The custom of giving at
this season is one that heightens much the enjoy-
ment of Christmas. There is assuredly more
blessing in giving than in receiving, and the giver
is always rewarded in the sweet consciousness of
having performed a noble act, and it is something
that abides in the heart forever, and will always
be a pleasant remembrance. The satisfaction of
carrying joy to a human soul by a noble action, or
a gift wisely bestowed without ostentation, is
precious indeed. It is not so much the value of
an offering as it is the good taste of the giver in
selecting, and the delicacy with which it is given.
The manner is often more than the matter. The
days of adversity through which many of this peo-
ple have passed ought to have been useful lessons
to them in this regard. It is good to know how
[Column 2]
to feel for others, and the best way to know is by
passing through similar experiences. And after
all none have passed through the severe
ordeals that the Savior endured whose advent
upon earth the people celebrate at Christmas
time. He could feel for the destitute and the
wretched, for He knew the most intense suffering.
One learns by what he suffers, and in this way
understands how to appreciate the condition of
others.
	These are good times for Zion, even if severe
tests have come; it is the time of proving, and to
those who can endure the reward will be sure.
Therefore, one cannot help feeling it is a good
time, and while there is prosperity and plenty,
and health and strength, and seed time and har-
vest, there is no occasion to murmur or rebel at
the dispensations of a kind Providence. The
nations of the earth are in His hands, and as
rivers of water He turneth them whithersoever
He will, and whether Harrison or Cleveland sit
in the White House, or Democrats or Republi-
cans have a majority in Congress, it will matter
very little to this people, so they keep the com-
mandments of God and the testimony of the truth
of the Gospel; Zion will come off victorious. The
eventful year 1888 is fast closing; great things
were anticipated by many during the year that
has now almost passed; perhaps too much was
expected, for grown people are very like children,
and when the reality comes it does not always
satisfy expectancy.
	What the new year just about to dawn upon the
world will bring no one can determine, but at any
rate the Latter-day work will roll on despite all hu-
man opposition.


[column 1]
		COMPLICATED CASES.

	The confiscation of Church property under the
Edmunds law of 1887, has been the cause of more
anxiety, seemingly, to the outside element here in
Utah, than to the interested parties themselves.
The "Church Suits," so called, have been argued
in the Utah Courts, and have been appealed to the
Supreme Court of the United States. Since the
appeal was made, questions have arisen here in
regard to the the compensation of the Receiver
(Marshal Dyer), and the fees of the lawyers em-
ployed in the cases. The parties representing
the interests of the schools of Utah, to which,
according to the provisions of the Edmunds law,
the property thus confiscated will finally be de-
voted, are greatly exercised over the exorbitant
fees and compensation of those who have been
handling, or holding the Church property in trust
until the final adjustment of the case.
	These parties have demanded of Marshal Dyer
the Receiver, an explanation of the whole affair,
and have brought the case before the Commission-
er's court, and it has been laid over to be submit-
ted to the Territorial Court, which meets in
January next. Meantime the Receiver has filed
his answer to Judge Zane, who has charge of the
affair in the interest of schools, and takes issue
with the Judge on all material points named.
What the result of this controversy will be it is
not easy to determine, but it is very clear they are
after the "spoils."
	Now comes Senator Edmunds to the front
again, with a resolution from the judiciary com-
mittee of the Senate of the United States, "call-
ing on the Attorney General for information con-
cerning the execution of the act of March 3, 1887,
in reference to bigamy, and also to report the
names of all United States officers, who had any
connection with such execution, in what capacity
and what compensation had been received by
them. He explained that the act declared for-
feited the property of the Church of Latter-day
Saints; that it was stated, the judges in Utah had
appointed the marshal of that territory, receiver of
[column 2]
said property; that the marshal had employed as
his private and personal counsel in the receiver-
ship the district attorney of the United States;
that some of the property had been sold and a
fund opened; that enormous and exorbitant al-
lowances were demanded for the services of the
receiver and his counsel, and that the school
boards, for whose benefit the property had been
forfeited, had been obliged to employ private
counsel to resist such demands."
	So it would appear that there is to be a real in-
vestigation, if Senator Edmunds' influence can
bring it about, and when judges and lawyers get
hold of the affair, it is likely to be in dispute for
some time, for who shall decide when they dis-
agree? and they are not very likely to agree. The
CASE, however, as far as the Church interests are
concerned, has been advanced in the calendar of
the Supreme Court of the United States, and will
be argued January 14, 1889. Hon. F. S. Richards,
lawyer for the Church, now in Washington in the
interest of the Church cases, will be there
when the case dissolving the corporation of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and
confiscating its property, is argued in the highest
tribunal in the land; and also the still more im-
portant question of the powers of Congress to
interfere in matters relating to ecclesiastical or-
ganizations, and to escheat property to the United
States belonging to dissolved corporations instead
of its distribution to the individual owners accord-
ing to established rules of legal precedure."
	The reasons assigned by Mr. Richards why the
court should advance the case are such as should
be understood by all parties interested, and briefly
and clearly explained are as follows:

	First—It is a cause in which the United States
are concerned as a party.
	Second—It is a cause which involves matters of
public interest, very nearly and seriously affecting
a very large portion of the citizens, residents and
property-owners of the Territory of Utah.
	"Third—It is a cause involving the constitution-
ality of certain Acts of the Congress of  the
United States.
	"Fourth—Under the decree appealed from, a
very large amount of property belonging to the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has
been seized and is now held by a receiver. Much
of said property being of a perishable nature,
great and irreparable loss and damage will ensue
if the property seized and held is left in the hands
of the receiver for the three years or more before
this case could be reached in regular order. If
said receivership is so long continued, the costs
and expenses thereof, and the loss sustained by
reason thereof, will amount to a virtual confisca-
tion of very large amounts of property, and will be
in effect a denial of justice.
	"Fifth—Said cause involves a question of
general public interest to the inhabitants of all the
Territories, because it involves the question of
the power of Congress to control and restrict the
rights of all church corporations, of all kinds and
denominations, in the matter of acquiring and
holding real and personal property, and the power
and right of Congress to dissolve church corpora-
tions and declare the property of such corpora-
tions forfeited and escheated to the United
States.
	"Sixth—Under said decree appealed from, the
United States has seized and now holds by its
receiver possession of several hundreds of thou-
sands of dollars worth of personal property be-
longing to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, and claims that the same has become
forfeited and escheated to the United States, with-
out the shadow or semblance of any law or laws
granting any such right or power.
	"Seventh—Under said decree appealed from,
the United States have seized, and now hold by a
receiver, possession of real estate belonging to
he Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints


[Column 1]
of the value of several hundreds of thousands of 
dollars, and claim the right to forfeit and escheat
said real estate to the United States, notwith-
standing the fact admitted of record, that said real
estate has been possessed, held and used by or in
trust for said Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints ever since the year 1848, under the full
power and sanction of the statutes of the Terri-
tory of Utah and the laws of the Congress of the
United States, and nothwithstanding the further
fact that a portion of said real estate so sought to
be escheated to the United States has been for
more than ten years last past, and was at the time
of the passage of said act of Congress of March
3, 1887, held and occupied exclusively for the pur-
poses of a parsonage for said Church.
	"Eighth—There are now pending in the supreme
and district courts of the Territory of Utah seven
other suits which involve the same questions that
arise in this case, and the final determination
of them will depend upon the decision of this
court as to the constitutionality of the aforesaid
acts of Congress, and the other points involved 
herein.
	"For the foregoing and other good and sufficient
reasons appearing of record in this cause, the
appellants pray this honorable court to advance 
the case on the docket and assign it final hearing
at an early day."
	This is a matter of great moment to all the peo-
ple of these United States, for it involves ques-
tions of the utmost importance, and it is "devoutly
to be wished" that the lawyers of the Supreme
Court, who are really the interpreters of all laws
enacted, shall render a decision that will be an
honor to the Supreme bench, and the country
they represent in the most essential manner in the 
interests of justice and equity. It is not so much
the question of dollars and cents, or of property
rights, as it is the rights of individuals to, "life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness." In this
free and grand Republic it is strange indeed if an
organization such as the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, must be restrained, or restricted
in the use of means directly devoted to religious
and benevolent purposes, and that has been freely
donated for this purpose by the people. Other 
churches and various denominations of Christians
own large amounts of property, and places of
worship worth immense sums of money, and when
one church can be thus treated and its property
confiscated by the government, it must also follow
naturally that other churches may be similarly de-
prived of the same rights. No doubt the cry 
would be in reference to this subject, that "Mor-
monism" is not religion;—because the popular
religious element of the world is against it, but
who is there that is authorized to declare what the
Gospel is, or what true religion consists in, except
as it compares with the Bible, the sacred word of
God? And when that is done, the Gospel in
which the Latter-day Saints believe and have
accepted, as taught in this day, is an exact type of
the Gospel as preached by the Savior and His
disciples. There are many who have been in-
duced to join in the persecution against this people
and to urge special legislation against them, that
have no correct idea whatever of the doctrines
or the precepte taught. In fact, they want the Ed-
munds law enforced, without knowing what the
law really is. Men and women, strangers in this
city, have expressed their views in this office on
this very subject, and have said, "Mormonism
must go," "The laws must be honored," "Youg
people are an alien people," and many other simi-
lar assertions, and yet would betray their ignor-
ance of the situation and the doctrine, and the re-
cently enacted laws to suppress polygamy and
punish unlawful cohabitation, etc., and the conse-
quences of the enforcement of the law, and were
entirely unaware either of what had been done, or
of what the conditions of the people were. Many
outside of Utah consider all the people as law-
[Column 2]
breakers because  they have read sensational
paragraphs in the newspapers, or heard the ru-
mors that float, as it were, upon the air, and swoop
down upon the innocent and unsophisticated, fill-
ing them with prejudice and hatred they know not
why.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE address of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Presi-
dent of the Central Board of the Relief Society,
is, No. 55 West Temple St., Salt Lake City, her
residenoe is nearly opposite the West Temple
Gate.
	IN company with Sister Zina D. H. Young we
had the pleasure of attending the quarterly
conference of the Relief Society of Weber Stake
in the Ogden Tabernacle on Thursday Dec. 13th.
There was a large and attentive audience, in the
afternoon we introduced the subject of the Na-
tional Enrollment, and distributed the papers to
the Presidents of the several branches in the
Stake. The minutes of this interesting conference
will appear in the next issue of the EXPONENT.
	WE acknowledge with pleasure the gift of
some very handsome and choice chrysanthemums
from Mrs. Ann E. Neal there were twelve varieties
of these beautiful autumn flowers. Late flowers
have a peculiar charm about them that speaks to
the heart of the summer days that are past. Re-
membrances that are sweet but sad, but which we
love to dwell upon. The cultivation of flowers
is one of the delights of life.


[column 1]
 			WOMAN.
     What can be said of her? Much, every way.
She is the mother of the human race; the source
if, not the author, of all man's joys and sorrows,
pains and pleasures. She is the embodiment of 
extremes. The reckless daring with which she
defied her Maker's law and power; and brought
to man his legacy of sin and sorrow; her sincere
devotion, her undying love for him who came to
deliver and redeem the race from all the sad con-
sequences of her transgression, are instances
without parallell in the history of womanhood.
     In her sphere she fills many very important 
relations, which  enable her to exert a power-
ful influence over the entire race of man. Man's
destiny is virtually in her hands, is prostrate at
her feet. The development of his powers all
come under the magic wand of her culture. It is 
woman that both refines and elevates the emo-
tional nature of the race, and fills it with aspira-
tions of honor, and a desire of virtuous reward.
     Her mission on earth in the relations of sister,
wife and mother, well filled, entitle her to man's 
love and protection; the approbation and ministra-
tion of angels, and the redeeming love of her
Maker—God.
     Her acute sensitive temperament, her devotional
nature, her noble quallties of heart and mind,
are endowments which richly qualify her for the
duties of these several stations assigned. Though
woman is from and of the man, she is not the
man, neither indeed can she be. She is a separate
and distinct creation, and has her sphere of action
and duty, which requires both organization and 
powers the man does not possess. As a helpmate
she is not the slave of man.
     The poet fancied he could tell woman her
sphere, when he complimentary wrote:

	"Heaven when it had created man,
	Unfinished found creation's plan;
	Though men and angels were a kin,
	A chasm still appeared between,
	Nor would the links together meet,
	Till WOMAN made the chain complete."

     That she is "the mother of all living," none will

[column 2]
dispute. The link indeed between heaven and 
earth that connects all of the spiritual world
with those who are below. She alone is fitted and 
endowed with capabilities to be the usher of all
spirits into their earthly home. 
     Filled for this high duty she is more spiritual in
her nature; the nervous system predominating,
her sensibility is greater than in man. Born to
feed and to inspire the kind and tender affections,
she is exempt from the fierce passions which
often characterize man, and love and maternal
affection are among the deepest springs of emotion
in woman’s hearts. In fact, she possesses the very
pecularities of the Christian religion; its spirit
of love and devotion, of tenderness and charity,
kindness and affection, which so eminently
qualify her to receive and nurture the innocence
of youthful life, without which there is no blessed
happy home, no truly educated one fitted for the
social duties of a Christian life, either for society
or country.
     The history of woman from early times, and in
nearly all countries has been one of servitude and
often of sorrow and hardships imposed by him
who claims the right to have rule over her, because
her desires should be unto him. As Christianity 
increases respect for woman follows in the wake,
and she is assuming her place, and exerting an
influence and power that is moulding society into
that refinement and purity that her nature de-
mands. This is especially the case among the
Saints where she is more appreciated in her re-
lations to the man and society than among any
other people. There she is an active worker in
the great labor of man’s redemption, a minister of 
sacred things for the perfection of her race. 
There she learns the full import of her calling
here, and the glorious destiny of her future.
As sister she is the life and love of the home
circle. Around her cluster not only the fondness
of parental love, but the innumerable exhibitions 
of brotherly regard, by which she is made to feel
her power to contribute to the happiness of
home, and in the midst of which she becomes a
refiner and purifier of the feelings and the affec-
tions which make the family circle better for her
presence, her absence ever to be deplored. 
In this relation she is not restricted to the home
circle, where she learns so well her lessons of
love and sympathy which make her the admira-
tion of man and the delight of angels; but the
virtue of this relation she carries with her through
all the conditions and relations of an entire life— 
she is ever sister in God's great family of living
souls.
     As wife her pledge of love is unreserved, and
she, as such, the choicest gift of God to man.
With her his joys increase, his sorrows flee; and 
the strength and virtue of union are planted upon
the citadal of home for the growth of a kingdom.
     Love in this, as in all God's institutions charac-
terize the union of husband and wife; without 
mutual love the relation will be an unhappy one,
and so defect the object God had in view. Where
this love does not exist marriage is virtually a sin,
is against the canons of human consciousness,
and the divine law. When we consider the part
woman is to take in the relation of wife, it has
been well said that "her price is far above rubies,"
but it is in the character of Mother that woman 
fills her high mission to man and earth. 
     In the capacity of mother we find blended all of
excellence and worth of womankind. In this
sphere of her life she developes those God-like
qualities with which she is so eminently endowed;
undying love, filial regard for offspring, begetting
tenderness of affection, and stimulating all the
emotional nature of man's being.
     In some instances, the highest type of divine
excellence in humanity has made its appearance
in woman as mother. Her power of endurance


under the most trying circumstances; her charity,
that which like the love of God, endureth and 
hopeth all things, and is richly endowed with the 
attribute of mercy.
	This was more than ordinarily manifested in the
life and character of her who was the mother of
the prophet Joseph Smith. She once remarked 
to the writer of this, concerning a son who had
been indifferent at times to her motherly advice.
"He has endeared himself to me by the trouble
he has made me," and this sentiment was a reflex
of her true character—a sentiment worthy of the 
Gods in Heaven, found in the heart of woman on 
earth.   Worthy indeed, to be the mother of pro-
phets, patriarchs and seers, is one whose love
could not be turned into hate even by a disregard
of parental authority. How faithfully was repre-
sented by her the chrracter of our Heavenly 
Father, who, when His children on earth refused
to recognize His parental authority, witheld not
His love, did not cast them off, but placed a sacri-
fice upon the altar, a divine pledge of His forgiving
mercy that was ever ready and free to the return-
ing prodigal. So God-like in character was
woman, one who was virtually mother on earth
of God's great and last dispensation to her race.
	And it is indeed well for the race of man, that
others have followed most gloriously in the wake
of her example and shed forth those genial rays of
refining influence that now prompt a rising gen-
eration of sons and daughters in Israel to emulate
the deeds and honor the virtues of woman and 
mother. Mothers in Israel to-day do not forget
to honor the mission that Jesus gave to woman in
recognition of her fidelity to him and his cause. 
She was honored with the first commission given
by the immortal Jesus,—a commission which has
never been revoked. It was woman who was 
first authorized to announce the fact of a risen
Jesus; it was woman who was first to seek him
and learn the fact that death had been overcome.
Her eyes had seen, her ears had heard, and being
a competent witness, she was commanded to 
bear testimony of it even to his sleeping indifferent
disciples.
	In no capacity can woman bear this testimony
with effect, and more appropriately than in that
of mother to those committed to her care for
training and instruction. This may well be the 
burden of the divine lesson to be taught by every
mother in all the ranks of growing Isreal. A
Christ crucified and put to death; a Savior risen
from the dead; an immortal Jesus that would not
be touched by mortal hands, ascending into heaven
in the presence of many witnesses; returning to
his Father on the glorious termination of his
earthly mission with a promise that he will come
again in like manner as he went, are all truths
that every mother should not fail to have instilled
into every youthful mind committed to her care
and guidance. Let his life and virtues be the
standard for all other lives; and the lessons of 
his life be taught at a time when they can never
be lost to the memory of those who may have
learned them. Then shall a generation arise that
will love and live the life of Him in whom their
faith has grown, and be prepared to meet him
at his coming when he shall return from heaven
in like manner as he went to heaveu. 
	In this glorious endeavor, let every mother be
a fore-runner preparing the way of his coming,
so that when he shall appear he will find faith on
earth, a living faith as enduring as a mother's
love, and as powerful as is woman in wielding
the affections, and moulding the virtues of our
race, into the image and glory of her God. 

	What heighth of glory, depth of love,
	Woman can give her worth to prove !
	With her, the man, as God may be,
	And reign, redeemed, Eternally.
				
					S. W. RICHARDS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

   		    TIMPANOGAS.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
At a quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah Stake, held Sept. 3rd, 1886, it
was announced that a branch of the Relief So-
ciety would be organized in the Timpanogas
Ward (situated on Provo bench). The name
of Caroline Daniels was proposed as President
of that branch, and accepted by the conference.
Sister Daniels stated that she had chosen Sister
Joanna Patten as her First Counselor and 
Sarah L. Partridge as her Second Counselor,
which was also accepted by the conference. 
On Sept. 23rd, 1888, Bishop P. M. Wentz
called a meeting of the sisters of the Timpano-
gas Ward, for the perfecting of the organization
of the Society. Prest. David John, of the
Stake Presidency, and Sister Mary John, Stake
Prest. of the Relief Society of Utah Stake,
were present. The names of the officers chosen
to fill the positions of the President and Counselors
were presented to the sisters and accepted.
	Prest. John explained to the sisters, that the
officers chosen to preside over them had been
presented to the Presidency of the Stake and 
approved by that quorum, next they had been
approved by a Stake conference of the Relief
Society. Hoped there would be union in their
approval of the officers so chosen to preside
over them.
	Sister Julia E. Loveless was chosen Secretary,
and Loraine Meecham as Treasurer, which was
also approved.
	At a future conference of the Relief Society
the officers were set apart to fill the offices as-
signed them, under the hands of Prest. A. O.
Smoot, David John and H. H. Cluff.
	Our Society only numbers eighteen members;
we have five teachers. Our settlement is
scattered over four miles of country, making it
inconvenient for the sisters to attend meetings
very regularly, but seem willing to do all they
can or are called upon to do. 
Your sister and co-worker.
						C. DANIELS.

	         	UTAH STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah Stake was held Dec. 1st, 1888, in
the meeting house, Provo City, Sister Mary
John, with her Counselors, presiding. Visitors
from Salt Lake, Sisters Jane S. Richards and
E. B. Wells. Conference opened with singing
and prayer. The minutes of former conference
were read and approved.
	Sister John felt grateful for the privilege of
meeting with the sisters in conference; thought
we would have a time of rejoicing together;
would first hear from some of the presidents a
verbal report, and then the sisters who were
visiting us would address the congregation.
	After the presidents had responded to the
call to report their various branches, Sister E.
B. Wells spoke to the sisters for awhile. Said
she felt pleased to meet with the sisters in Provo
again. Came there to-day feeling well in
spirit, and hoped to assist in dispelling the
gloomy feelings some of the speakers alluded
to, which was in consequence of the sickness
that had been in our midst for some time past;
thought we should try to rise above our feelings,
and acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
things. "I suppose you all expected to meet
our President, Sister Zina Young, but she was
called away, and Sister Richards has come in
her stead; Sister Richards is First Counselor
to Sister Zina in the Central organization. It
is, I believe, the first time she has attended a
conference of the Relief Society in Provo. We
become acquainted through these Society meet-
ings and conferences. I am pleased to know
through the reports of the presidents of the
good work that is being done for the poor.
[column 2]
Apostle Moses Thatcher said recently he wanted
the teachers to hunt out the poor and lone and
comfort all, 'no matter of what color or creed.'
I think we recevie a blessing by conferring
blessings upon others. We must learn to love
our neighbors as ourselves, if we expect to at-
tain to any great excellence; we must also have
charity. We want knowledge and intelligence;
we want to inform ourselves on all subjects."
Made other remarks upon gaining wisdom and
understanding, and helping others.
	Sister Richards said she felt weak in appear-
ing before us to-day. She came here by request
of Sister Zina, but not to fill Sister Zina's
place. "We all have our own place; we all
came into the world for a purpose; we knew
before we came here what we were coming for.
We should acknowledge the hand of the Lord
in all things; when our children die we know
they are saved; they cannot go astray, and if
we are faithful we shall meet with them again.
This is the work of the Lord in which we are
engaged. Our enemies cannot keep us from
praying. Sister Eliza Snow likened this life to
the kitchen; but when we leave this world, if
we are faithful, we will take a higher position,
and will have our reward. Let us teach our
children purity and good principles, and, as
Sister Eliza said, let us teach them a little, and
set them good examples, etc. We should all at-
tend our meetings; let us pray for those that
have no desire to come to meeting. The Lord
gives us our means, and let us be charitable
with it, and help others, whether in or out of
our Church." Sister Richards made other re-
marks upon the duties of the sisters.
	After singing, conference adjourned till 2
p.m. Benediction by Coun. Emily Cluff.
	Afternoon session: Opened with the usual
exercises.
	Sister Cluff announced to the sisters that
Bro. Graves would speak a few minutes on the
silk question, after which we would again hear
from our visiting sisters.
	Sister Marilla Daniels spoke a short time;
said she felt strengthened, and no doubt we all
did, by the teachings we had received. "We
can all judge ourselves, but we have no right
to judge others; the Lord judges our hearts;
His hand is over all; let us live near Him with
our trust in Him; great events are at hand; we
do not realize as we ought the workings of
Providence.
	Sister E. B. Wells felt glad to see so many
out this afternoon. "If we have the good spirit
with us to soothe, comfort and bless, we are al-
most sure to find the same good spirit wherever
we go." Regretted that we as a people had
not made greater progress in the silk;	*	*
*	*	*	"It was an idea of President
Young's—silk culture; it was something that
would benefit us in time, but the expenses of
manufacturing it were greater than we could
buy the silk for, consequently many had given
up entirely and become discouraged." She
had often thought how nice it would be to have
our temples furnished with silk hangings, etc.,
of our own manufacture. Spoke feelingly on
the Primary Associations, and of the great im-
portance and blessing these meetings were to
the children; thought that mothers in a great
many instances were more indifferent and neg-
ligent than they should be in sending their
children to those associations, and did not
realize the necessity of spiritual teaching.
Spoke a short time on the National Woman's
Suffrage Association, and read some papers
bearing on that question, and in reference to
the National Enrollment, which she explained
thoroughly. Alluded to the efforts of some
women of influence, who wanted to reform
"Mormon" women, and how much need there
was of their home missionary work in the East
and West instead of coming into these valleys,
where such wickedness and degradation did not
exist.


Sister Richards again addressed the confer-
ence on various subjects; thought testimony
meetings were very interesting and instructive;
many of us are better speakers than doers.
Referred to Sister Snow’s voice in speaking, so
soft and low, yet so penetrating; "the Spirit of
God was with her and filled her whole being.
As to what Sister Wells said on the franchise
question, we need no persuading to sign the
papers for the National Enrollment; we can put
our names down to show that we believe it is
our right to vote, even if it has been taken
from us. About the silk, President Young had
a great anxiety in regard to it; I think it is
better to raise cocoons and sell them, than not
to do anything in that direction. For the
Primary Association, we have no work that is
half as important as that; teach the children
to have faith in times of sickness; tell them of
the days of Joseph, and other matters of Church
history; encourage the young ladies to live
aright, and when they marry to be married
right. Exhorted all to diligence and faithful-
ness.
	Prest. Mary John felt to thank the sisters
for their good instructions, etc.
	Conference was then adjourned for three
months. Singing, "How firm a foundation."
Benediction by Bro. Allman.
			CAROLINE DANIELS, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
BY M. J. TANNER.
[Continued.]
	Lockport, Sunday June 7th 1885. Lock-
port is the city of all cities to me. Here my
grandparents lived and raised their families,
and died. My parents were married here and
began life together. Their eldest child was
born here, after which they moved to Toledo
where I was born, I was brought back to my
grandparents when an infant, and the name
is treasured by me as the scene of so many
sacred ties, I can hardly say memories, for I
was so young when I left that I remember
but little of it. Here my grandparents are
buried beside their youngest son who died in
the early bloom of his manhood. Cousin
Emily and I attended Methodist meeting this
morning in a neat brick church standing on
the site of the one my father and mother were
married in, that, they tell me, was built of
frame and was burned down. The preacher,
a fine looking man, gave us a practical dis-
course on the lives of ministers in general, and
took up a collection for retired ministers and
their families. It is a long walk to church
but very pleasant and leads through the central
part of town.
	Auntie and I have a long talk in the after-
noon. We attend the Episcopal church in the
evening; it is quite a change, they have so many
ceremonies; I never saw the Episcopal service
before. The minister wears a white robe and
reads the sermon. There seems no heart in it
although it is very good.
	Lockport, Tuesday June 9th 1885. Re-
ceived a letter from Botton, Lake George,
where my husband's relatives live, inviting me
to visit with them and telling how to find them;
have not yet decided if I will go. Emily and
I went for a walk, calling on some of her
friends, and tried to identify the house that my
grandparents lived in. We find one that
we decide upon; it looks very ancient not
at all like its modern neighbors.
	Thursday June 11th 1885. The circus
came here yesterday and people turned out and
stood around on the streets just as they do at
home expecting to see something but saw
nothing worth mentioning. Auntie and I
walked out today and she showed me the
house my father built and lived in; it looked

[Column 2]
old like some others, but still stands while the
hands that built it are mouldering to dust.
	Lockport, Friday June 12th 1885. The
weather is very warm. Cousin and I walked
out to the Cold Spring Cemetery. Auntie
was not able to walk so far as she is quite ad-
vanced in years being seventy-five years old
but she is quite smart for her age and gets
around very nicely. It was a long but pleasant
walk as the road is bordered with shade trees
most of the way. The cemetery is very pleas-
antly laid out with shade trees, flowers, and grass and everything seemed so nicely cared
for, quite a contrast to some we see at home.
After searching a long time we found grand-
father's lot in an old uncared for part of the
cemetery, where weeds and young locusts ran
riot. In a few more years it will be a dense
forest of locust trees. The tomb stones were
broken and defaced by the hand of time. We
found grandfather's at last where he and
grandmother and uncle Bertrand lay side by
side. The stones were mildewed but the in-
scriptions were plain. We rested awhile and
mused on the changes and uncertainties of life,
and the certainty of death, when we too
should lie in graves as lone and uncared for
as these, and our names forgotten by the busy
world around us which would still surge on
filled with its own conceits and busy with the
cares and labors that fall on life whenever and
wherever it is. We went to the spring from
which the cemetery takes its name, and whose
water is delightfully cool after our long hot
walk; the country beyond is very hilly. We
walked slowly home and arrived at 5 p.m.,
very tired.
	Sunday, June 14th 1885. Attended Catholic
church this morning and heard "High Mass."
It was all very new and strange to me. While
standing in the vestibnle we saw people pass
the font or basin of holy water and make the
sign of the cross before entering church: We
asked a gentleman if strangers were allowed
there, and he said certainly, we should go in and
sit down wherever we chose. I find in most
churches we are liable to intrude if we enter
a seat without a proper invitation. I never
saw the Catholic services before and it is all
so strange and fantastic to me. The music
and chanting are grand; tall wax candles burn
over the altar and pictures representing different
phases in the life and death of Christ being
near. I cannot describe the services, they are
very impressive and must be seen to be appreci-
ated, though they could not then be under-
stood. Every one on entering looked toward
the pulpit and bent the knee, on entering their
seat they knelt and said a prayer (I suppose)
before they sat down, some counted
beads. When the chanting and music were
finished Father Murphy spoke from a pulpit;
he is an eloquent speaker. He denounced the
fashions and follies of the world and pictured
the terrors of hell, where millions of people
are suffering now, and will suffer throughout
the endless ages of eternity, while the good
would go to everlasting life. He denounced
the Protestants and told the people to send their
children to Catholic schools. After Father
Murphy finished, the old priest who had offici-
iated at Mass began speaking, the people began
leaving each one looking at the altar and
kneeling as they went out, and not more than
two thirds perhaps waited for the benediction.
Near the church stands a nunnery; both church
and nunnery are large substantial buildings of
grey stone; we could but wonder what kind
of life was led by those who were shut in be-
hind its walls. We hear so many strange
stories about these places that it excites our
interest, but the silent stones and painted
windows tell us nothing. It might be appro-
priate here to tell a tale that Auntie told me
of the long ago.
	In her early life she lived in Lockport and

[Column 3]
knew the circumstances as it was fresh in the
minds of those still living.
	A young priest fell in love with a maiden
who was in every way worthy of his affection
and they were secretly married. He took her
to Rochester where he visited her for awhile
without being suspected. His house was showed
me near the church where he lived with his
housekeeper. She suspicioned him and grow-
ing jealous set the other priests after him.
His crime was soon brought to light and he
was tried before the council and imprisoned.
He was finally taken to Canada and all trace
of him was lost, and the world never knew his
fate. His broken hearted wife took possession
of his home and spent her days there loved by
all who knew her. Her sad story is ended and
she has passed over to the  beyond where the
mystery of her life is long ago solved. The
house stands there grey and silent and cold, and
tells no tales of the martyred lives and broken
hopes that passed within its walls.
	We called on grandma Niles an aged lady
identified with the history of the town, she had
relatives she told us in Utah. The Murray's
one of whom was the late Vilate Kimball well
known to many at home in Utah. She began
telling me that people in Utah dare not write
to their friends in the east. I told her she
was mistaken in that for people could always
write if they wanted to. She asked what
would be the consequence if a woman wrote
when her husband had forbidden her. I said
"a family spat perhaps" I did not know what
else could happen. But I assured her that
 Brigham Young had something to do in settling
a new country and looking after his extensive
family besides watching people's letters. She
said so many offensive things that I got mad
and left. I spent the afternoon reading and
writing and preparing to go to Lake George
tomorrow. Auntie will go on to New York to
visit with cousin Ettie Kimball and Rebecca
Newman in New Jersey, where she was born
and raised. She anticipated a visit with Aunt
Fanny Ridges whose history she gave me, and,
as it is very interesting I will some day write
it for the EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL RESOLUTIONS.

	At the annual meeting of the American
Woman Suffrage Association held in Cincin-
nati Ohio, the following Resolutious were read
and adopted in which we concur and desire to
express our appreciation of the same—and of
the noble work accomplished by these able and
efficient laborers in the interest, amelioration
and elevation of humanity.—ED. 
		MARY F. THOMAS. M. D.
	“Since our last annual meeting, one of the
pioneers in the woman suffrage movement has
passed away. Mary F. Thomas is dead. A
life of great usefulness is ended, and the
American Woman Suffrage Association has
sustained a great loss. She was the possessor
of that highest kind of courage which was al-
ways ready to avow its convictions in the face
of adverse public opinion, and of that kind of
magnanimity which could bear, without re-
sentment, every manner of unjust criticism and
obloquy from those around her. By her
blameless  life and the manifest sincerity of
purpose which pervaded everything she did,
she finally subdued all animosities, and died
universally respected, honored and loved.
The solemn earnestness which characterized all
her acts, and perhaps, most of all, her efforts
for the enfranchisement of her sex, was accom-
panied at all times with singular modesty,
gentleness and charity for the shortcomings of
others. Selfishness was absent from her nature.
She saw the right and struggled to maintain it
for its own sake, not for the sake of herself or
of anything which it could bring to her. Her


life was a busy one, and it was spent in doing
good.  Healing the sick, relieving the poor, 
and comforting the afflicted,—these things were,
with her, not the recreations of idle moments;
they were her daily work, the business of her
life. She did not court but rather avoided
notoriety.  As she lived, so she died. An
abiding conviction that her course was right
remained with her to her last hour.  Of her,
as completely as of any we have ever known, 
may it be said that she filled to the utmost the
measure of her duty.  She was in the fullest
sense of the word all that a woman ought to
be."

			JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE.
	"Resolved, That the American Woman Sufirage
Association has sustained a great loss in the
removal by death of Rev. James Freeman
Clarke.  President for three years of the
Massuchetts W. S. A., and always our faithful
and judicious friend. Dr. Clarke's wise advo-
cacy of all just reforms made his adherence to
our cause a matter of great weight and impor-
tance. His presence has left us, but his influence
remains."

			LOUISA M. ALCOTT.
	"Resolved, That by the death of Louisa M. 
Alcott, the woman suffrage movement has lost
a steady and generous friend, and a shining ex-
ample that a woman who believes in equal
rights may be a devoted daughter, a faithful
sister, and a woman exemplary in all the rela-
tions of private life, as well as a citizen whose
public services have been invaluable in pro-
viding pure, wholesome and delightful reading
for the young.—Woman's Journal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY FAIR.

	On the 16th of November a Primary Fair
was held at Hyde Park, Cache Co.  There was
a good representation of work, done by the
children, both at their homes and in the work-
ing meetings.  The work consisted of sewing,
knitting, crochet work and cooking by the girls,
both ornamental and useful articles being made;
also vegetables raised by the boys and orna-
ments made of wood, etc.
	A party was given to the children, and alto-
gether it was a very pleasant affair. The
children showed their willingness to do what
was required of them, by bringing in their
work.
					LYDIA DAVIS, Sec.
	Hyde Park, Dec. 5, 1888.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Eight women were elected the first week in
this month on Massachusetts School Commit-
tees.
	Mrs. Annie Besant and Mrs. Ashton Dilke
have just been elected to the London School
Board.
	Mrs. Esther M. Hawks was nominated last
week by a meeting of the women voters of
Lynn, Mass., as a candidate for the school
board. 
	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe has almost wholly
recovered from her recent illness, and passes
her time pleasantly at her Hartford home en-
gaged in her usual occupations.
	Mrs. Nathan Appleton, of Boston, is at the 
head of a movement to raise funds for a statue
of Washington, to be presented to the French
government by the women of America. The
President and Mrs. Cleveland have promised to
lend their aid.—Ex.
	Woman suffrage gives promising signs of
gaining supporters.  Lord Salisbury has de-


clared in favor of it, and the Italian Senate'
though it has rejected a bill providing for it,
did so by a small majority.—Philadelphia,
Ledger.
	A French lady recently defended her father
before a law court with acumen worthy of
a veteran lawyer.  In recognition of her
talent the Sorbonne, which is the Paris Col-
lege of the University of France and which
affords equal opportunities to women, has
conferred on her the title of Doctor of
Sciences.
	Mrs. Marietta Holley (Josiah Allen’s wife)
is fitting up a new house for herself in Adams,
N. Y. in which provision is made for the ac-
commodation of ten or twelve guests, to be
selected from the sewing-girls of New York
City, during the summer months.  She expects
to entertain four or five sets of them in succes-
sion.—Ex.
	Emma S. Dill, of Wyoming, O., has sug-
gested to the Board of Directors of the Hamil-
ton County Agricultural Society “that a Board
of Lady Directors, appointed to act with and
under the direction of the present Board of
Directors, could greatly aid in awakening an
interest, and in the work preparatory to a good
fair each year.” This suggestion is to be acted
upon at the next meeting of the board, and if
the gentlemen will consult the Indiana State
Agricultural Annual Reports, they will find
that an auxiliary board of women has been of
decided advantage for ten years past.—Ex.

	The Earl of Salisbury, prime minister of
England, took occasion, in his address before
an audience of some 6,000 people in Edinburgh,
reeently, to speak as follows:
	“I earnestly hope the day is not far distant
when women also will bear their share in vot-
ing for members to the political world, and in
determining the policy of the country.  I can
conceive no argument by which they are ex-
cluded.  It is obvious that they are abund-
antly as fit as many who now possess suffrage,
by knowledge, by training and by character;
and their influence is likely to weigh in a direc-
tion which, in an age so material as ours, is
exceedingly valuable—namely, in the direction
of morality and religion.”


MISCELLANIOUS.

	If our faith has not for its basis the witness
of God, to which we must submit as to the
authority outside of, superior to, and indepen-
dent of, our personal judgment, then that
faith is no faith.—A. Monod.

	One of the latest as well as one of the best
things from Spurgeon is his reply to the ques-
tion whether a man could be a Christian and 
belong to a brass band.  "Yes I think he might;
but it would be a very difficult matter for his
next door neighbor to be a Christian."—Ex.

	The Roman Catholic cathedral in Boston
will be a remarkably interesting place on one
day in the first week in January, when Mary
Anderson's brother Joe is to be married to one
of Wilson Barrett's female kin.  Mary Ander-
son was proposed as a bridesmaid, but decided
the part  out of her line.  She will be there
though, and so will Booth and Barrett and
some of the prettiest girls in town.—Ex.


IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, at Leamington, Millard Co., Utah., Oct. 7th,
1888, Stephen Bartors Talbot, son of Stephen B. and the
late Bussellitta G. Brownell Talbot, aged one year three
weeks and one day.
	We all feel to regret the death of the dear little boy,


whose mother was taken away when he was only five weeks
old. He was tenderly cared for by his grandmother,
Mrs. Matilda Overson, and grew to be such a large beauti-
ful child until he was one year old, when he was taken with
whooping cough and teething, which caused his death in
three weeks. The death of his mother almost prostrated
his grandmother with grief, but this little fellow had grown
to be such a comfort to her, that parting with him seemed
almost more than she could bear, but we have the consola-
tion of knowing that his angel mother has one more darling
with her.										L. M.


OUR LITTLE MAGGIE.

	DIED, of diphtheria, Maggie Morrison, aged seven years.
She was a most promising child, and we all deeply feel our
great loss.  She died on the 20th of Oct. 1888.  Her birth-
day was on the 3rd of Dec., 1881.  Daughter of William
and Emma S. Morrison.
		
		Weep not for Maggie, who's left so soon,
			Nor to despair be driven,
		Good angels bore her spirit home
			To that blest abode called heaven.

		Be comforted and know that now
			She's free from every snare,
		Your darling's saved and all is well,
			Prepare to meet her there.

		Rejoice, rejoice, our God is good,
			His name we will adore;
		Whate'er affliction He permits,
			He'll give strength to endure.

		Now, let us then all faithful be
			To our covenants prove true,
		That when our earthly race is run,
			We'll unite with her anew.
								M. F. C. M.
	Clear Creek Canyon, Oct. 21, 1888.


R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES  & CO.,
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address.  DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1889.	No. 15.


NEW YEAR'S MORNING.

Only a night from Old to New! 
	Only a night-and so much wrought !
The Old Year's heart all weary grew, 
	But said, "The New Year rest has brought."
The Old Year's heart its hopes laid down,
	As in a grave; but, trusting, said:
"The blossoms of the New Year's crown 
	Bloom from the ashes of the dead."
The Old Year's heart was full of greed;
	With selfishness it longed and ached,
And cried: "I have not half I need,
	My thirst is bitter and unslaked.
But to the New Year's generous hand 
	All gifts in plenty shall return;
True loving, it shall understand,
	By all my failures it shall learn.
I have been reckless: it shall be 
	Quiet and calm and pure of life.
I was a slave: it shall go free,
	And find sweet peace where I leave strife."

Only a night from Old to New!
	Never a night such changes brought.
The Old Year had its work to do;
	No New Year miracles are wrought. 
Always a night from old to new!
	Night and the healing balm of sleep!
Each morn is New Year's morn come true,
	Morn of a festival to keep.
All nights are sacred nights to make 
	Confession and resolve and prayer;
All days are sacred days to wake 
	New gladness in the sunny air.
Only a night from old to new;
	Only a sleep from night to morn.
The new is but the old come true;
	Each sunrise sees a new year born!
									H. H.


HOLIDAY THOUGHTS

When the sacred books are opened,
	The books the angels keep--
While we talk and while we listen,
	While we work and while we sleep,
How different many, many things
	Will in those books appear,
To the way we understand them
	And oft repeat them here.

Some sad mistakes of mine, while I
	On others cast the blame;
Some harsh, uncalled for words I've said,
	Will make me blush with shame;
Where charity for self I've claimed,
	To others been unjust,
Or nursed unkindly feelings,
	Instead of patient trust,

How wistfully I then will turn
	From my poor blotted leaf,
To the full, untarnished record
	Of Christ, our matchless Chief!
With what unspeakable delight
	We'll revel long and deep,
If priviledged to read the books
	Recording angels keep!

What glorious truths will then unfold,
	With meaning plain and clear,
Which, to our untrained natures,
	Oft seem mysterious here.
"The Holy Family" shall I meet,
	When freed from mortal strife,
And find my name recorded in
	The Lamb's great Book of Life?


My friends beloved, and neighbors,
	This day, while yet I live,
Please grant my boon, say that my faults
	You	one and all forgive;
That should I find few joyous things,
	At least I may not weep,
When the sacred books are opened,
	The Books the angels keep !
								LULA


AUNT POLLY’S LETTER.

DEAR HOMESPUN:
	My first letter written to you on Aug. 10th,
was in fulfilment of a long cherished promise
to myself, and since eagerly perusing your
reply, memory has been busy with reminis-
cences you so vividly awaken; in retrospective
revery I recall each particular detail, and can
also picture quite plainly the improvements,
which must certainly have quite transformed
the rather depressing pretense of the old rooms,
in the days when I knew them. I remember
well the aged sofa, huddled in its musty depths
I read with joyous haste the first letters from
my dear home, after the long, heart sick jour-
ney; with tearful joy I sat for hours conning
and re-reading the loving words dictated by
anxious, affectionate hearts; there, too, side by
side with the natives of that land I have
struggled with the seeming impossibilities of 
their language, in our mutual endeavors to make
ourselves understood; and Sister Maggie Cluff—
I cannot think of my island life only in con-
nection with her—she it was whose kindly 
womanly kiss was the first to greet my lips 
after the parting embrace of my gentle mother,
and our last farewell was taken as she bade
"alolia" to those among whom she had so faith-
fully labored, and whose hearts she had so
kindly won; and I well remember the first
knowledge I had of her departure from earth,
was in recognition of her picture in your own
lines, entitled, “My Dead Friend,” written
soon after her death.	
	Memory also recalls the rides and rambles
among the luxurious fern foliage, in search of
orange groves, and lime trees, and on one oc-
casion a recently arrived missionary desired
the escort of an initiated sister, as guide to the
enticing groves, where the luscious fruit hung
in tempting plentitude, to the hungry imagina-
tion of a long-suffering appetite. The horses
were duly led to the door, equipped with
Spanish saddles, one of which the lady de-
clared her intention of riding in true native
fashion; with painful blushes and embarrassed
apologies the modest missionary disappeared
around the corner of the house, while the lady
with becoming grace mounted her steed and
laughingly called to her companion to forget
his discomforture in pursuit of delicious fruit
and beautiful scenery. Alack and alas for
manly prudishness! I wot not he hides his face
now at trifles, after a second sojourn under
tropical suns amidst those dusky children of
nature.
	I used to think so little ever happened to
us there, so monotonously the time passed
away, but now I remember many pleasant occur-
rences, and some happenings, too, the memory
of which is tinged with sadness and regret,
but even so much our life’s lessons be taught,
and the present will be richer in content, by
remembering the brightness and joys we have


had, while the shadows remain in the obscuri-
ties of the past, as much as may be.
	With alolia nui to your brave workers, I
am,
							AUNT POLLY.
	Dec. 16, 1888.


CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.

	The beautiful story of the birth of Christ,
and of the shepherds keeping watch over their
flocks by night, the earnest looking out for the
star in the East, to welcome Him, all these
historical events, and others therewith con-
nected, cannot be too strongly impressed upon
the minds of our little ones.
	To many of the children nowadays, Christ-
mas is simply “Santa Claus,” who brings them
toys and sweetmeats, and the birth of Christ
never enters into their minds; the cause of the
rejoicing is never told them in a way they can
understand. They do not know why "peace
and good will” prevails, they have not heard
the incidents of the birth of the Messiah,
which all this social festivity commemorates.
	"The hallowed anthem sent to hail
	Bethlehem’s shepherds in the lonely vale,
	When Jordan hushed his waters, and midnight still
	Watched on the holy towers of Zion's hill."
is all Greek to them.
	The gathering together of friends and of
families at this season gives it a prestige and
importance that is real to the children, and
they know and feel that the day and the time
is significant, but they know not why and the
lesson is lost to them, that might otherwise be
fraught with good fruits.
	The legend of Santa Claus is a very pretty
illusion, but it falls far short of the exquisite
tenderness of the story of the true origin of
Christmas. The custom of giving gifts at
Christmas had no doubt its beginning in the
giving of gifts at the birth of Christ.  The
wise men of the East, who had seen the star of
Bethlehem, came and opened their treasures,
and presented unto the newly-born babe “gifts,
gold and frankincense and myrrh;” and this
example has been followed—of giving, and the
practice perpetuated from generation to genera-
tion, and it is right and proper that we should
fulfill the saying of our blessed Lord: "Inas-
much as ye do it unto one of these my little
ones, ye do it unto me.” We have not the
privilege of giving to the royal Prince of the
house of David, but we all have the precept
of our Master to teach us to give our good
gifts in the season thereof, and if we do this in
obedience and reverence, and that we may be
like unto Him, we should not fall short of the
blessing.
	The poor are at the Christmas season the
especial recipients of the bounties of the rich--
and there are many who quiet their consciences
by so doing; but is this all? Does this cover
the ground? Is there not something we owe 
to each other besides the simple act of giving!
Christ’s coming proclaimed “peace and good
will,” which does not always follow the giving
of precious gifts; it is often very easy to give,
when kindness and love would be infinitely
more of a sacrifice, and more acceptable unto
Him, who gave Himself a sacrifice greater than
any we can make. Is it not very often like
the prayer of the Pharisee, to be seen of men?
Let us hope not, but is there not a spiritual
lesson for us all to learn by the observance of


[Column 1]
the Christmas season, as well as to feast upon 
the good things of the earth and laugh and be
merry withal.
	It is a time of sentiment, a season of affec-
tion, when we recall the past, and don the
garment of love, in  which occasionally we find
sad rents have been made. There are changes
in our lives that seem more apparent when the
heart is awakened by the ringing music of the
present, and we find "parts unfilled and voices
wanting," and we find ourselves involuntarily
saying,

"Would they were with us still!"

Such feelings will arise even though we are in
the midst of gaiety, and we unwillingly and
unwittingly contrast the past with the present,
and thoughts of the loved and lost, the distant
and the dead" come something like,

"A pall—
And a gloom o'ershadowing the banquet hall,
And a mark on the floor as of life-drops spilt,"

darkens the joyousness and the revelries of 
the merry Christmas time. So many changes
have the years brought, that the words of the
poet come home with a deep and awful mean-
ing.

"A change he may find there, and many a change!
Faces and footsteps and all things strange!
Gone are the heads of the silvery hair,
And the young that were, have a brow of care,
And the place is hushed where the children played!"

Now to me the children are the ones to be
first considered at Christmas; it is the birth of
a child we celebrate, and we are told that the
kingdom of heaven is likened unto a little
child, and also, that unless we become thus
meek and lowly we cannot enter there; but
these are solemn thoughts, that we cannot al-
ways cast aside, not even for the children's 
sake, and tho' Christmas brings merriment
and good cheer, it has also its sober side, and
no picture is complete without it. If we al-
ways reveled in sunshine we would never know
how lovely the twilight was, and the darkness 
in which we grope at midnight, makes us ap-
preciate more fully the dawn of the new-born
day. Children feast themselves at Christmas
time, and romp, and play, and laugh, and sing,
and dance, and sometimes even grow weary 
with excess of gladness and exuberance of
spirits. It is well, methinks, to mingle a little
soberness with all this festivity and joyousness,
and to relate a story that will touch them in a 
tender place cannot be amiss, if it will teach
them to feel another's woe.
	I promised to write a story for the children,
and I am almost sorry that I did, but I like to 
keep my word, and so I will, even if it is
against my after-thought.

	It was Christmas time, and the snow lay
very deep upon the frozen ground, and the 
bells upon the horses were ringing out joyously,
as the sleighs glided up and down the streets
of the city. Mirth and festivity seemed to
reign triumphant everywhere; but when joy is
at its height, sometimes sadness falls like a 
solemn pall, and so it was this Christmas time
of which I write. The children had hung 
their stockings up on Christmas eve, and Santa
Claus had filled them to overflowing with good
things—it was a happy household—and there
had been much longing and expectancy be-
forehand, and wondering among the children,
of what Santa Claus would bring them, and
especially what choice and precious gift would
be bestowed upon the little one whose cross
had seemed heavier than infancy could bear,
whose life had been one of constant suffering, 
and whose patience and resignation was more
than mortal. The little pale, starry-eyed 
darling, with the thoughtful brow, the silken
hair, that lay so lovingly in rings upon it, and
whose gentleness shone in every feature of her

[Column 2]
beautiful, spirituelle face. She was first in
everything; the big, fat baby brother, with the
curls of burnished gold on his sunny brow,
was content to wait for papa's kiss, when he
came in, until his little pale sister had been
lovingly caressed. O, it was a happy family,
there, how could it be gloomy, for there seems
ever sunshine where the children are.
	But a shadow fell that day upon the happy
household, and yet it was as if the loving
Savior came and took into his own bosom the
little lamb, whose sufferings had been so pitiful.
Just when the dinner was announced, and the 
father and mother and all the little ones were
ready, an unseen angel entered, and the light
went out of that happy home, and the shadow
of death fell across its threshold. It had been
such a happy day, and now all was so changed
—a hush—a stillness brooded over all—the 
children knew not what to think; how could it
be that on this day of gladness for all the
world, such grief should come to them! It is
useless to attempt to reason with an excess of
sorrow; not until grief has spent itself is it
possible to be calm. And for children what
can one do? The little transparent hands
were folded, the soft eyes that had looked up 
so imploringly but a few moments ago, were
closed, and the long, silken lashes lay lovingly
upon the pale cheek, as we laid her down upon
the dainty pillow; the pure spirit had gone to
that better home, where no pain nor sorrow
could ever afflict her again. The children put
their toys away without a word; silence had
fallen upon all. The snow fell thick and fast
without and lay like a shroud all over the
valley. There were no songs that night, but
tears and sobs and piteous moans; but those
who realized what her sufferings had been
knew that she had entered spotless on eternal
years, and, "Oh, how much the best!"
	All day and all the long night, and another
day the snow kept falling, and when we laid
the little white figure down, it was in a valley
of whiteness, emblematic of her purity; and
the snow enveloped her grave with a mantle
of beauty. A white cross of marble now
marks the spot where the little suffering one
was laid to rest, that Christmas time; and all
the summer long the loving ones bereft, carry
flowers and lay upon the sod, in remembrance
of her sweetness and innocence, but when the
snow falls, it seems more fitting still in emblem
of her purity. And every Christmas time we,
who loved her so, remember how the shadow
fell upon our hearthstone, and our hearts go
out to all who suffer; all the more tenderly in
deeper sympathy, because of the great sorrows
that have come to us.
	
Nine years have faded since she went away
Nine years for her to live in heavenly places;
To learn the look of blessed angel faces,
Nine years to grow as only angels may.

"I wonder who of those that went before,
And those that followed in her shining way;
She has met there, in heaven's auroral day,
And if they talk their earth life o'er and o'er,

"I think this very morning they are met,
She and the other dear ones who have gone,
In some dear place in heaven secure and lone,
To talk of things they never can forget.

So we will think of them just as they were,
Their voices sweet and all their pleasant ways;
And thoughts like these shall help us through
the days,
Until we go to meet them where they are."

	I fear this is a sad story to tell children, but
it is true nevertheless, and I have told it you
just as the old year is dying, and when we all
grow more or less sober and thoughtful. And
whatever may be said of stories grave or
gay, it is fitting that amid the mirth and jollity

[Column 3]
of holiday time, one's thoughts should be occa-
sionally stirred by the experiences of the past,
"birth and death, marriage and separation, joy
and grief in all their familiar forms," knock
at every door and cross every threshold at one
time or another, but we feel heavy sorrows, keen-
est perhaps, in times of general rejoicing. The
lyre of human passion has been struck on all
its chords," and no life is complete that has
not tasted the bitter as well as the sweet. The
true poetry of life is not all like a summer
dream, but abounds in shadows, mysteries and,
perchance, occasional midnight darkness.
	And now on this the last night of the old
year with which we are about to part, many
tender recollections arise, and we are fanciful
enough to feel the influence of the season and
the time, and while we bid the old year good-
by and stand, as it were, waiting to welcome
in the new, we recall the words of Tennyson,
and repeat them here:

"Full knee deep lies the winter snow,
And the winter winds are wearily sighing;
Toll ye the church bell sad and low,
And tread softly and speak low,
For the old year lies a-dying."
	EMILE.
[Signed]  E. B. Wells


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENT.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Primary Association of Circleville met
Friday morning, Dec. 7th, 1888, at 10 a.m.,
Prest. Sarah A. Morrill presiding. Singing,
"Oh, ye mountains high." Opening prayer by
Bro. D. S. Gillies. Singing, "Beatiful Zion."
Remarks by Laban Morrill; Select Reading,
Emma Morrill; Recitation, Edna Dalton, en-
titled, "Propitious Friends," Song, Nellie
Parker and Clara Gillies, entitled, Swing-
ing;" Select Reading, Louie Whittaker; Reci-
tation, entitled, "My Mother's Bible" Denna
Nielson; Song, Alice and Celia Thomas.
	Prest. Sarah A. Morrill felt greatly encour-
aged to see the children taking so active a
part; hoped they would continue to improve.
	Bible Questions answered by Effie Dalton
and Permelia Morrill; Song, Jennie Parker
and Mary Whittaker; Recitations, entitled,
"Don't run in Debt," Dora Morrill; Essay on
"Character," E. M. Fullmer; Speech, Willie
Dalton; Song, Julia Rubey; Speech, Ozro
Fullmer; Dialogue, entitled, "Poor Work Don't
Pay," Mozetta Smith and company; Questions
on the "Life of Joseph Smith," answered by
Virginia and Caroline Peterson; Recitation,
Rhoda Gillies; Select Reading, Alma Nielson;
"Grandma's Birthday was then recited by
Blanche Parker.
	Coun. S. S. Sudweeks made some interesting
and appropriate remarks.
	"The Blind Man's Appeal" was recited by
Addie Morrill; Song, Lettie Fullmer; Dialogue,
entitled, "Slang," by C. R. Dalton and com-
pany; Remarks by Bishop J. E. Peterson.
Singing. Benediction by J. Simkins.
		ADDIE MORRILL, Sec.
	Circleville, Dec. 17, 1888.


Margaret Deland is said to have rewritten
"John Ward" six times before it was given to 
the printer.
	The New York Tribune says:  "Women are
studying medicine in England in thorough
earnest.  At the recent examinations at Lon-
don University, ten of the nineteen passes for
honors were taken by women.  In anatomy
they took three of the six honors.  In physiol-
ogy they secured four out of six.  In materia
medica only did they fall behind, and even
there they got three of the seven honors.  In
the face of such a record the opponents of
medical education for women are feeling a
trifle uncomfortable."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AFFECTIONATELY ADDRESSED TO 
SISTER JULIA C. HOWE.

Dearest sister, fain I'd bless you.
Fain would drive the pain away.
Which so sadly does distress you,
Making dark the sunniest day.

But, take courage, God is near you,
Med'cine to His Saints He gives;
Then, my sister, never fear you,
Thro all His love forever lives!

May He send the balm of healing 
Quickly on your suffering head;
May you hear His voice revealing
Your spirit shall be clothed and fed.

Then look up, dear, passive be,
Soon a peaceful time will come;
Soon rejoicing days you'll see,
And fill with peace your blessed home.
	HANNAH T. KING.
June 1, 1882.


BY-AND-BY

Be quiet, restless heart! The long light lies
In gleams of lingering sunshine on the hill;
The home-bound swallow, twittering as he flies,
Makes silence seem more still.

The shadows deeper grow, and in the woods
The air a latent sweetness holds in fee;
An odor faint of yet unblossomed buds--
So like, dear heart, to thee!

Far distant in the soft, cerulean deep,
Where the horizon bounds the nether world,
Great ships becalmed, like brooding birds asleep,
Lie with white sails loose furled. 

In peace the day is ended, and the night
Falleth as doth a veil upon the sea;
Along its bosom come with swift-winged flight
The gray mists silently.

O anxious heart, how Nature speaks! Her power
How leisurely she uses! How intense
The infinite peace of her most fruitful hour!
How soft her influence.

Time hath she for her storms to sweep the main;
To rock the tree-tops with her winds of wrath;
To bring forth fragrance in the summer rain;
And time for snow he hath.

So, dear, for all thy eager soul desires,
She keeps sweet times and seasons. In her mood
Is hid for thee all passion's subtle fires,
To round thy womanhood.

Cease, then! and in this dewy twilight, move
As one who asks not whither, cares not why:
This gift for all holds still the eternal love—
God's endless by-and-by.
	—Primitive Methodist.


[Column 1]
WINTER PLEASURES.
Another New Year!  And, notwithstanding
the persecutions heaped upon this people, and
the rigid enforcement of the Edmunds-Tucker
bill, generally speaking prosperity and peace
are found in the homes and habitations of the
Saints in these valleys of the mountains.  Some
families are separated, some fathers and hus-
bands are suffering imprisonment for con-
science sake, and others are exiles from home
and its joys and pleasures, but the consolations
of the Gospel more than compensate for all,
and there is much to rejoice over, for Zion is
prospering, and the light of prophecy tells us
there is nothing to fear; it is proper and con-
sistent to enjoy the present. It is a time for
happy greetings;  the interchange of kindly
feelings between relatives and friends.  It is
also a fitting time to bestow material favors
upon the needy.  King Winter has shown his
most magnificent gray, and frosty beard and
wrapped his flowing, snowy robes around the
summits of the lofty hills, and the heavy
[Column 2]
garment reaches far down over the beautiful
valley.  Now is the season for recreation and 
winter enjoyment, the respite from outdoor 
labor; and the merry jingle of the sleigh-bells
keep rapturous time to the music of glad young
hearts.  Young men and maidens view this
time of leisure and social intercourse as most
propitious in promoting matrimonial engage-
ments.

"Learn to win a lady's faith
Nobly as the thing is high;
Bravely, as for life and death,
With a loyal gravity.
Lead her from the festive boards,
Point her to the starry skies;
Guard her by your truthful words,
Pure from courtship's flatteries."

	One revels not so much in thoughts of 
nature as in the fireside pleasures.  The home,
the hearthstone, the bright cheery fire; these
are appreciated now.  The warm, cosy corner
and comfortable easy chair are the luxuries
sought after and indulged in most.  The bright,
heavy curtains fall gracefully over the frosted 
windows; yes, frost work on the glass, what
skill can equal it?  Imitate it as the artist may,
he can never compete with the Great Master
in this classical legendary picture-making.

"As by some genii's quaint device."

	The glowing fire on the clean swept hearth-
stone, which throws over all objects in the 
room a luxurious warmth, is specially inviting,
and almost without being aware of the inclina-
tion, one sinks into a profound reverie, where
lights and shadows blend into fantastical pic-
tures and the imagination revels fancy-free in
the realms of waking dreamland.

"Well may dreams present us fictions,
Since our waking moments turn
With such fanciful convictions
As make life itself a dream."

These hours of momentary rest from active
labor by the winter fireside are a sort of peace-
ful relief to mind and body, and give oppor-
tunity to recuperate after the long protracted
toil of the more laborious months.  There is a 
little time for the renewal of old friendships
and agreeable associations, which strengthen
the affections and make life more desirable to
all.  Such reunions and awakening of latent
feeling in the human breast, bring into exer-
cise those attributes of the soul that help to 
make us more like Him, who said, "Do unto
others as ye would that they should do unto
you."  We all like attention and courtesy
from others, though we may be neglectful in
rendering it.  Yet methinks, we should take
time to be loving and gentle, and respectful
and sociable, for after all we make people
better if we make them happy.  Times of fes-
tivity, jollity and innocent mirth are good for
us all.
	We are all one great family, and it seems
essestial for us to become well acquainted with
each other.  In mingling together socially, we
usually see people in their best light, it brings
out the finest expressions of the individual's
real self.  Business and the cares of life,
which oftimes press heavily upon the mind,
making one appear to great disadvantage, are
momentarily cast aside and scope is given to
the higher impulses which beautify the soul,
and possess a greater charm than wealth or
any of its material pleasures or advantages.
Life is only short at best, and while it is our
duty to provide for our temporal wants, it is
not good, or beneficial to stifle the affections,
the kindly feelings of the human heart, which
are more truly elevating in their character than
the wealth of the Indies.
	We talk a great deal about cultivation,
about excellence of attainments in these days,
but the culture which refines most is that 
which touches the heart; and those attainments
are most excellent and most desirable, which
inspire us with courage to perform life's duties

[Column 3]
acceptably, and these include, in a great de-
gree, love for all mankind, and many cour-
tesies to and much charity for our fellow be-
ings.  Those who associate largely with their
 fellow-men are the highest types of character, 
possess the greatest magnanimity, are more
ready to forgive a wrong and have fewer
rough edges or sharp corners that need toning
down and modifying.  Consequently such men
and women are the ones, who are the most at-
tractive to those whose perceptions are not 
dulled or blunted by evil.  I believe that our
Father in heaven is pleased when we come to-
gether in social entertainments, where there is
order and harmony. All our relations with 
each other as a people should be characterized
by purity of purpose and a desire to benefit
and bless others as well as ourselves, and in
doing this we are entitled to the blessing of God
upon our efforts.
	The pleasures of the winter season are of 
such a nature that some are very apt to indulge
to excess, and then they pall upon our senses
and we are ready to declare them all vanity.
Dancing is one of the pastimes that is greatly
abused; in moderation it is good and tends to 
grace and ease of manner, which is an accom-
plishment that adds much to the deportment,
and is certainly desirable; the music of the 
ball-room and the motion of dancing is, more
especially to the young, like enchantment. It
bewilders and dazzles them, consequently if
left to themselves, they frequently ruin their
health by over indulgence; and yet a little 
amusement of this nature is healthful and 
beautiful.  To enumerate all the amusements
adapted to the winter season would be impossi-
ble, but suffice to say, there is an abundance
for old and young, and we should not neglect a
reasonable amount of pleasurable enjoyment,
for it is invigorating in its physical tendency,
and in its moral tone, elevating.  The great
difficulty is to exercise discretion in these mat-
ters and keep within proper bounds.
We are apt to overdo things that we like, to
neglect weightier matters that are not so pleas-
ant in their nature.  But this is the season to
enjoy the song, and the dance, the fireside
winter tales, music and conversation, those
charms that give such zest to home-life, and
that are such potent influences in renovating
society when rightly applied.  Our young peo-
ple have the most advantageous opportunities
at the present time to improve, yes, to excel
in those things that make home delightful and
their society everywhere attractive and enter-
taining. Reading is one of the pleasures of
winter we should not forget to class among its
enjoyments.  And a careful selection of books
or papers is an essential matter.  After read-
ing, converse together in the home, at the table
or the fireside upon the subjects, and you will
find it a fruitful source of pleasure, and a
great improvement of one's conversational 
powers. 
	I have a picture in my mind of a large
family, seated around an open fire-place, in a
very unpretentious living room, the table
loaded with nuts and apples, a few books with
homely well worn binding, plainly showing
they had been often used; some old-style musi-
cal instruments were there, the young people
are now singing, old-fashioned, simple ballads
to amuse father and mother; there was no blaze
of chandeliers, only the glimmering, fitful light
of the pine-knots, which always brings out such
weird shadows that remind one of Macbeth's
witches.  By and by when the trilling of the 
fresh young voices died out, then the young
folks said, now it's your turn, father or mother,
tell us a story of when you were young, how
it was you fell in love, for it must be a love
story, mind, and the simple but truthful story
was told by the winter fireside as effectively as
if it had been presented on the stage in a melo-
drama.
AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	EDITOR

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JANUARY 1, 1889.


THE NEW YEAR 1889.

	The EXPONENT wishes its readers A Happy
New Year, in every land and clime, wherever
they may be, from the Rocky Mountain region,
to the borders of the Mediterranean, and thence
to the shores of Hindostan, or upon the islands
of the Pacific sea. To one and all it extends
sincere and cordial congratulations, upon the ad-
vent of the New Year; hoping it may prove a year
of prosperity, in the acquisition of knowledge, in
the growth of intelligence, in the success of
science, and in the extension of "life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness" to all mankind, irre-
spective of creed or party; and although it was
seemingly unpropitiously ushered in with an
eclipse of the sun, who knows but it may be an
augury for good, and the sun shine out far more
brilliantly after being darkened by the lesser light
of the moon, and the new year mark an era in
the history of the world, that the people will be
proud to look back upon as the turning point in
the road toward a higher civilization, that shall
envelop humanity with its curtains of strength
and love, and raise the banner of freedom aloft
for all to gaze upon wonderingly.
	That a glorious time is coming has long been
predicted, and why not now? The present is auspi-
cious with pale stars of hope, that grow brighter
and brighter—the midnight hour of ignorance
is, doubtless, past, for light has come into the
world, and truth has burst forth in rich effulgence
and ere long it shall assuredly triumph over error
and sin, and the reign of righteousness begin.
Speed the time when strife and enmity shall cease
and the world rejoice in a reign of peace.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"SALT LAKE CITY ILLUSTRATED" is a hand-
some work by D. C. Dunbar & Co., issued recent-
ly in Omaha. It contains, over fifty views of the
city from  various points, very fine cuts of business
and other public buildings and large and commo-
dious residences, churches, etc., taken correctly
from photographs. In addition to this there is an
accurate description of the city, its rise and pro-
gress, by R. W. Sloan. The book contains forty
pages, is of heavy paper, and the type and me-
chanical work in the very best style. It gives
the stranger a very good idea of Salt Lake City
and its environs, and will be a good thing to carry
a general impression of the beauty and outside
appearance of the town. The work shows com-
mendable enterprise, as well as possessing con-
siderable merit on its own account. For sale at
Dwyer's Book Store, Main St, 40 cts per copy.
	The Deseret News Company has just issued a 
paper entitled, "The Deseret Weekly."  It is in

[Column 2]

pamphlet form, a very suitable size for handling
or for binding; larger outside than Harper,s
Monthly, with three column pages, but only con-
taining thirty-two pages of reading matter. The
paper is intended to combine the current news as
a news paper and magazine, and may be properly
styled a journal. This first number is filled with
original articles from writers well known to the
community, and upon themes of interest to the
people here, and well worth preserving to be read
in the future as well as to send abroad to the
world. The opening of the volume is a poem
"Thought's Martyrdom" by the gifted poet of
Zion, O. F. Whitney, followed by "Ideas of
Government," by C. W. P., a subject upon
which much may be said educational to the peo-
ple. A story follows, opening with the saying
"Truth is stranger than fiction," signifying of
course that it is a true story and will therefore be
of greater interest to those who read it. "The
Relations of Life," by S. W. R., "Among the
Mexicans," by J. E. Talmage, "Curing a Cold,"
C. W. Stayner. "Spectacles a Necessity," by
Romania B. Pratt. M. D., "Holiday Changes," a
poem by Lula, characteristic of the times; another
by Mrs. Woodmansee, "Stand Your Ground,"
possessing the genuine ring of Mormonism. "A
Happy New Year," by Godfrey Williston Chris-
tine, contains much information on the subject of
New Year's in other ages and centuries etc.
"Martyrs to the Truth," Josiah Burrows. "A
Peculiar Race," B. F. C. Jr., "The Late Fair,"
Essay Caigh. "The Resurrection," a lecture by
J. E. Taylor, and other articles and miscellaneous
matter make up a very interesting number. The 
price per year, payable in advance, is $2.50, or
half year $1.50. Twenty six numbers will com-
plete a volume, as the fifty-two numbers would
not be a suitable size for binding. Success to
the new enterprise.

     "THE STORY OF THE BOOK OF MORMON," just
issued by Elder Geo. Reynolds, is unique in its
originality, and will certainly enhance the value
of that wonderful book, which forms the founda-
tion of the work; a book that seems to have
troubled the enlightened world so much, because
of the manner of its coming forth, as also its pe-
culiar style, and the general character of the
work itself, and its striking similarity to the
Hebrew Bible. The "Book of Mormon" has
been a source of discomfort and of anxiety, so to
speak, from the time when it was first announced
that Joseph Smith had discovered some gold
plates in a hill near Palmyra, until the present
day.  It has been one of the most important fac-
tors in the history of this Church, and wherever
the name "Mormon" is heard the story of that
wonderful book is told in one form or another;
generally so sensational and highly-colored and
so far wide of the truth that it seems strange
that people do not know that the tale is false.
However, at last, after sixty years, a story is
actually told on the subject that can be relied
upon. The familiarity of the writer with his
theme is well known to the people here, and he is
certainly able to present the subjects he describes
in a manner that will be attractive and entertaining
to all who read for the sake of obtaining true
knowledge. The book is handsomely illustrated.
The first picture is a copy of the painting, "Jesus
Appearing to the Nephites," by Wm. T. Armi-
tage, in the Logan Temple; "The Vision of
Nephi," "The First Sacrifice On The Promised
Land," "Babylon," "Nazareth," "Discovery of the
Records of the Jaredites," "The Vision of
Limhi," and other illustrations descriptive of the
book, forty-two in all, must intensify the interest
of the literary work. We have not yet had time
to read the book sufficiently careful to be able to
review it properly, but feel much interested in the
subject matter of the work. It is handsomely
bound and certainly presents an attractive exterior.
The book contains nearly 500 pages, and the

[Column 3]

typographical part of the work is excellent. After
having perused the book we shall give a more ex-
tended notice, and in the meantime we trust it
will have, as it certainly ought, a wide circula-
tion. Price, cloth binding, $3.00, leather, $4.50.


NEW YEAR'S GREETIEG.

TO MY SISTERS:
	I wish you A Merry Christmas and A Happy
New Year!  In all our varied circumstances as
Saints we have a right to acknowledge the hand
of God in all things.  This encourages and
strengthens us in our labors in the Relief Society
at this time; it makes the hearts of the poor re-
joice through the diligence and thoughtfulness of
those who minister to them in doing good, being
in harmony with our worthy bishops; the teachers,
both male and female, find the needy and see that
none lack for the comforts of life, and thanksgiv-
ing ascends to the Father, instead of the cries of
suffering.  We have had no paupers formerly, and
the absence of saloons and places of refuge that
follow intemperance, which belong not to Latter-
day Saints.  We are compelled by law now to
submit to some of these.  The United States
think the precepts of the Bible too good for Mor-
mons to practice, they must only believe; these
things make us sorry; although over eight hun-
dred true wives married for time and all eternity
(for death ends all matrimonial covenants in this
world at present), we will wait and call upon our
Heavenly Father for aid, for strength (for the
means accumulated for the support of the family
must go for fines), to rear the children in the path
of honesty and uprightness, and to teach them to
honor our God-given constitution.
	Knowing it is truly a religious conviction that
prompted the acts of fathers and mothers to take
upon themselves the heavy responsibilities of
large families, and the knowledge that we have
received the Holy Ghost through obedience, as
the Bible directs, let us not grow weary, but be
faithful unto the end, in doing good and loving
our sisters "as ourselves."  Mothers, our beauti-
ful, healthy, loving children, cherish them, for
they are gifts from God.  Under these peculiar
and trying conditions, fonder are the affections for
the darlings, and as the family circle is the center
of bliss and sunshine in time and eternity, let us
enjoy the home.
	As all, even those who persecute us, are our
Father's children, we can pity all mistakes; those
that come through misrepresentation, and all, even
 our worst enemies, we pray for, and while the
merry Christmas rung through all Christendom, 
how little did the world think of the loving hearts
that are wrung in prison, innocent of wrong doing,
and of the desolate hearts and hearthstones in
Utah.
	Here women are organized and have power to
do much good; it will show some joy and honor
too.  May we ever be true to the trust and confi-
dence bestowed upon us; bridle the tongue; by
ceasing to speak detrimentally of any, for all
have a portion of infirmities, and there is ever
room for improvement, and by extending mercy,
it is promised to us.  Read a little each day, my
dear sisters, if but ten minutes, and we will lay up
treasures of knowledge, besides mental and
spiritual strength for performing our daily duties,
and these are the first consideration.  The monthly
visits of our ever faithful teachers are a great bless-
ing to the Saints; these are our special representa-
tivesin the kingdom of God, with the sister teachers.
May they ever be endowed wtth wisdom, discern-
ment, and a goodly portion of the Holy Spirit,
that none may suffer, and may they ever have
wise counsel to comfort the afflicted.
	The counsel given us from the brethren of the
Apostles a few days since was for the sisters to
continue their good works, as Sister Eliza and her
Counselors, with others, had done and had taught


in the past; we ever hope to improve, until we are
perfect in every good word and work in the sphere
we are called to act in. Sisters, continue in sav-
ing wheat; if it needs renewing it can be loaned
to the presiding Bishop, or by the Bishop of the 
ward being responsible in writing.
	Wherever the brethren can take time to visit
and encourage the sisters there is a great differ-
ence in their prosperity and growth.  We did not
call ourselves to these labors of love, but we are
willing and desirous to do what is required; we
wish to hold our meetings and conferences regu-
larly as heretofore, that we may improve.  Can
our time and means be more profitably spent than
in becoming better acquainted with each other, 
by strengthening confidence, encouraging faith,
and purifying our thoughts?  And may our joys
increase as each year unfolds its pages to write
upon; may they never be blotted with unkindness
or regrets.
	That the bright sunshine of peace may ever be
and abide with us, is the sincere prayer of,
		Your sister and co-laborer,
						Z. D. H. YOUNG.
	P. S. Again to my dear sisters, A Merry Christ-
mas and A Happy New Year.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A ﻿TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES.

	The need of competent and well-trained nurses
has long been felt in this community; and it is in
itself a department of labor that requires prepara-
tion. Training schools for nurses have been
established in all the large cities of the east, and
the practical knowledge on this subject thus ob-
tained has been fraught with the best results pos-
sible in this line of work.
	It is therefore with great satisfaction that we
announce the opening of such a school in Salt
Lake City, believing it will be beneficial in its re-
sults here as elsewhere.
	Dr. Mattie P. Hughes, whose name is well-
known in the community as a successful medical
practitioner, has decided to open a Training
School for Nurses, on the 20th of the present
month, January, 1889. The Dr. has, while travel-
ing, in the United States and also abroad in
Great Britain and on the continent, visited the
principal training schools in large cities, and has
taken great pains to look carefully into the plans
and methods upon which such institutions are
conducted. She proposes to give lectures similar
to those of the Boston Training School for nurses,
and is thoroughly qualified for the teaching, and
has provided herself with the needful apparatus,
etc, the best charts, books and skeleton. All
who are acquainted with Dr. Hughes will feel as
we do, that she is competent by education and
training to give the necessary instruction, and has
the high moral courage and independence neces-
sary for the work she is about to undertake, which
will, if it succeeds, prove a blessing to the sick,
and perhaps save not only much anxiety, but
many lives. Doctors depend greatly upon their
nurses, and we all know what a comfort it is to be
carefully and skillfully tended, when there is sick-
ness, and the nursing is very frequently all that is
necessary, without medicine or the attendance of
a physician. Communications in regard to terms
and other matters should be addressed to Dr.
Mattie P. Hughes, corner First East and South
Temple St. or, P. O. Box 575, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


[Column 1]

SEVENTIETH ANNIVERSARY.

	On the 29th of December last, 1888, Sister
Sarah M. Kimball reached the seventieth anniver-
sary of her birth. Sister Kimball has in many
respects been a remarkable woman, and at the
present writing is as brilliant in mind, and as
capable of mental activity as she was at forty.
She has had some experiences calculated to de-

[Column 2]

velop her best faculties for thinking, planning,
and suggesting; but aside from this development
she has much originality which has been a marked
characteristic of her career in life.
	It was at Sister Kimball's home in Nauvoo that
a few sisters belonging to her own neighborhood
met together at her suggestion, to consult as to a
plan for combining their means and efforts to
form a Ladies' Society, with a view to assist in
the building of the Nauvoo Temple. Out of this
little nucleus thus called together in Sister Kim-
ball's parlor has grown the organizations of
women that exist in the Church to-day.  It was in
this wise. The ladies invited, met and decided
to organize; Sister Kimball was delegated to call
on Sister Eliza R. Snow, who was then engaged
in teaching in the family of the Prophet, and ask
her to write a constitution and by-laws, and
submit them to President Joseph Smith prior to
the next meeting appointed for the following
Thursday. Sister Eliza cheerfully responded, and
when she read them to him he replied that the
constitution and by-laws were the best he had
ever seen. "But," he said, "this is not what you
want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of
the Lord, and He has something better for them
than a written constitution. Invite them all to
meet me and a few of the brethren in the Masonic
Hall over my store, next Thursday afternoon and
I will organize the sisters under the priesthood
after the pattern of the priesthood." He further
said, "The Church was never perfectly organized
until the women were thus organized."
	Most of our sisters already know the result of
this organization, and are familliar, by reading,
with the teachings of Joseph Smith to the Relief
Society in those early days.
	When the Relief Society was organized in the
Fifteenth Ward in Salt Lake City, Feb. 7th 1857,
Sister Kimball was elected President and has re-
tained the position ever since. Under her wise
and judicious management, the Society in that
Ward has flourished temporally, and much posi-
tive good has been accomplished by it in many
directions. The record of the work upon the
books, and the written reports from time to time,
tell this story, but they do not tell all. The com-
forting of the sorrowful and afflicted, the minister-
ations to the sick and dying, and the many deeds
of loving tenderness wrought by the sisters in
this and other organizations are not to be seen of
others, but they are doubtless recorded on high.
	Sister Kimball has been a widow for over
twenty-five years. Her husband was drowned in
the Pacific Ocean by the wreck of the steamer
Ida Hancock, off the coast of the San Pedro on
his way to the Sandwich Islands.
	Sister Kimball has the honor of being the first
woman to lay the corner-stone of the first Relief
Society building erected in this dispensation.
She thus describes it:—
	November 13, 1868 a silver trowel and mallet, were
furnished me, and, assisted by a Master Mason,
and surrounded by an assemblage of people, I
had the honor of laying the corner-stone of the
first Relief Society building erected in this dis-
pensation.
	At the time of the organization of the Central
Board of the Relief Society, Sister Eliza R. 
Snow the President-elect chose Sister Sarah M.
Kimball as the Secretary of that Board, and she
was set apart to act in that capacity by President
John Taylor, July, 17th, 1880, at the same time
that Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith was set apart to
preside over all the Relief Society in the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The two
Counselors to the President were also set apart
at the same time, Sister Zina D. H. Young and
Sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney. After this was
done Sister Kimball was set apart as secretary
and received the following blessing from Presi-
dent John Taylor.
	"Sister Sarah Melissa Granger Kimball, in the

[Column 3]

name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and by virtue of
the Holy Priesthood I set thee apart to the office
of Secretary of the Relief Societies in Zion; to
record important events and keep a faithful re-
cord. Thou shalt be quick to discern and a ready
writer. Seek more earnestly for the Spirit of the
Lord, and thou shalt be blest more than thou
hast ever had power to conceive of. As thou
hast been preserved in life, thou shalt continue to
be preserved. I seal upon thee thy former bless-
ings, and thou shalt be honored in time and in
eternity, and have a seat in the celestial kingdom
of God, in the name of Jesus, Amen."
	Sister Kimball has faithfully fulfilled the obliga-
tions thus placed upon her in keeping the records
of all important matters and events pertaining to
the organization, and still continues to labor in
the performance of the duties of the calling to
which she was set apart; and though delicate in
her physical organization, she seems likely to re-
tain her powers of activity, and to be able to fill
the responsible positions with which she has been
honored many years to come. That she may
be preserved in the full possession and enjoy-
ment of health and powers of endurance in body
and mind, to advise, assist and instruct, those who
have had less experience in the sphere in which
women are now called to act, is sincerely to be
hoped for by all who favor Zion. The writer ex-
tends her most hearty congratulations to Sister
Kimball, wishing her length of days, peace and
prosperity.
		E. B. W.


TO MRS. Z. D. H. YOUNG.

			SANDWICH ISLANDS.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
	OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF
	LATTER-DAY SAINTS:
	Dear Sister:—I have just finished the report
of the Relief Societies of these islands to for-
ward to you, but, having had no previous cor-
respondence, I do not know where to address.
I have not received the EXPONENT for some
time, and, as I think that, perhaps you have
received a letter for the EXPONENT from the
islands ere this, concerning the work of the
Relief Society I will not write to it at present.
But I will say, we held our Fair at the time of
our conference at Laie, Oct. 6th, which was
attended with marked success in the ability of
our native sisters.  Seven handsome quilts
were on exhibition, a large variety of babies
hoods, little shoes and stockings, lace tidies,
underwear, dresses, aprons, etc. etc., All
kinds of useful and ornamental work; over
two hundred articles in number, and reflecting
much credit on the ability of our dusky sisters.
This work was done by the four Societies of
this island only.
	They take great interest in this work, and
it is an industry that should be continued
among them, as it will tend to help them to
renounce their slothful and indolent habits,
and make them more fit for the association of
white people.
	Our Hawaiian sisters wish to send their
alolia nui to yourself and the societies in
Zion.  Ever praying for the advancement of
the work of God, I have the honor to be,
	Your Sister in the Gospel.
						LIBBIB NOALL.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			WEBER	STAKE.
	Synopsis of the minutes of the quarterly
conference of the Relief Society of Weber
Stake, held in the tabernacle in Ogden City,
Dec. 13th, 1888, Mrs. Jane S. Richards pre-
siding.  Meeting opened by singing, "Come let


[Column 1]

us anew." Prayer by Bro. Gale. Singing,
"May we who know the joyful sound."
Minutes of the preceding conference, were
read by the secretary and unanimously adopted.
	Pres. J. S. Richards was thankful for the
pleasure of meeting again in conference.
Was glad to see so many present; had visited
quite a number of the branches of the Relief
Society throughout the county, and had en-
joyed a goodly portion of the spirit of God,
and listened to many faithful testimonies from
the sisters. Prayed for the Spirit of the Lord
to be with us to-day, to build up and
strengthen us in our holy faith.
	Pres. Zina D. Young felt we had met for a
renewal of the Spirit of God and prayed we
might receive it. Had noticed the same hum-
ble, kindly, Godly spirit filled the brethren in
prison, that did those who were laboring in the
Temples, and it was a proof that God was
well pleased with them and comforted them
abundantly with his Holy Spirit. Warned
the sisters against harboring the spirit of fault-
finding. Compared our trials to traversing a
canon which seemed that therewas no way out,
by, by faith and perseverence came through all
right; she had never lost faith in the silk business
in Utah; hoped to see it revived and prosper
under the management of the Saints. She
knew that faith in God and this Gospel was
daily increasing in the hearts of the Saints;
prayed it would continue.
	Sister Martha Bingham had been absent for
six months, but thanked God for the blessing
of returning. Had felt it quite a trial to have
our husbands imprisoned, or exiled, but knew
if we lived right, God would be with them and
with their families, and bless them abundantly
with His Spirit.
	Bishop R. McQuarrie was anxious for all
who came to meeting to hear the voices of the
speakers distinctly, that their hearts might be
filled and warmed and renewed with the Spirit
of God. We should seek to cultivate the
same spirit that inspired and animated our
brother Jesus Christ. Exhorted all to attend
to their prayers continually. Spoke of the
great good the Relief Society was doing; ad-
vised the sisters to work more earnestly in
saving wheat, and obeying that counsel given
to them on this subject by Pres. Young and
others.
	Sister Sarah Richards had a strong testi-
mony of the truth of this Gospel, and had
enjoyed it for many years. Was glad to see
Sister Young and others of our sisters, here to
advise and talk with us, and hoped each one
would go home filled according to their hearts
desire. Had never doubted that Pres. Brigham
Young was the inspired successor to Joseph the
Prophet, for she heard his voice and saw his
countenance reflected in him.
	Sister E. B. Wells felt that this was the
best day we had ever seen, notwithstanding the
clouds which often hover over us. She was
pleased to hear the brethren and sisters encour
age the saving of wheat, for there was no
danger of our storing away to much, for we
are told to seek out all the poor and needy no
matter what creed or color. Said we should
cultivate a spirit of charity and faith, especially
in our children; and made other remarks calcu-
lated to encourage the sisters in their labors of
love.
	Sister Emily Shurtliff felt it was necessary
for us to arouse ourselves from our seeming
neglect in regard to storing grain; was glad to
hear the subject revived and dwelt upon by
the brethren and sisters.
	Singing, "Come all ye sons of God." Prayer
by Bro. Dye.
	2 p.m.  Meetnig commenced by singing,
"Hail to the brightness." Prayer by Bishop
McKye. Singing, "Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah." Opening remarks

[Column 2]

by the President, Mrs. Richards. Reports
made.
	Sister Eliza A. Tracy reported the Society
in Huntsville in a prosperous condition.
	Sister Adeline Belnap gave a favorable re-
port of the Hooper Society, said they had been
doing all in their power to assist in erecting a
meeting house in that place; had also visited
many sick, etc.
	Sister Jeannette Bingham of Wilson Ward,
bore a faithful testimony, and gave an encour-
aging report of their Society.
	Sister E. B. Wells, said it seemed to fall to
her lot to speak upon more practical matters, though
she desired more to be spiritually minded
thought it our duty to do all in our power to
allay the prejudice against us in the world;
explained a blank which had been received
from the Woman's National Association for the
signature of all those who believe that women
should vote on equal terms with men in all
political affairs. Gave some very good instruc-
tions on various subjects of importance to this
people. Spoke of the many benefits to the
suffering, obtained by upholding and sustaining
the Deseret Hospital.
	Sister Herrick spoke a short time expressing
her pleasure at meeting in the conference, and
bore a good testimony.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young said she hoped the
sisters would work in unison with our brethren
in the priesthood. Advised mothers to observe
the Sabbath and teach their children to do the
same; "take special care in teaching the youth
good manners, self sacrifice and humility.
Let us show the world we are noble, true
women in every respect. When we become
pure and good enough God will open th way,
and the world will know that they have not
judged us any more justly than the Jews did
the Savior."
	Coun. C. F. Middleton, said he loved the
Latter-day Saints throughout the earth, and
desired to see them grow in purity and grace
before God.
	Pres. Jane S. Richards loved to listen to the
brethren and sisters on all occasions. "The
days of our conference are not long enough,
for we would like to hear from all if there
was but time." Urged upon the sisters the
necessity of laying up wheat, and of providing
means for the Hospital, also subscribing for
our own paper, the EXPONENT.
	After singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire
is burning," benediction was pronounced by,
Bishop Allred.
	MATTIE B. CANNON Stake Sec. R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES OF TRAVEL.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER:—After a long silence I thought
a few lines from this remote corner of Utah
would not come amiss.
	We are having very peculiar weather,
stormy, sunshine, then storming again. Good
health prevails, except colds; peace and pros-
perity everywhere apparent.		
	As I have been absent most of the summer
I will give a short sketch of our journey. We
left home July 13th, 1888, traveled by team
to Springville, where my sister resides, and
spent the Twenty-fourth at that place. It was
very nice, indeed, but the dinner for the old
folks was the most tempting part to see, the
sumptuous table seated with our aged brethren
and sisters was a beautiful sight to behold;
their cheerful faces and dim eyes shone with
delight and sparkled as the viands were passed
by pleasant and tidy young waiters, eager to
do their best for the aged; although not one of
the number, I was all the more delighted to
have the privilege of looking on. After the re-
past and a recess came the fun of the enter-
tainment, which was creditable; also speeches

[column 2]
and toasts, with singing, some appropriate bal-
lads.
	On the 28th we took the afternoon train on
the D. & R. G. for Price, which place we
reached at half past six o’clock, and then a
ride of 25 or 30 miles to Huntington, where
our daughter resides, to visit her. The scenery
through Spanish Fork Cañon was beautifully
grand. The station at Price was not as large
as I expected to find it. We arrived at Hunt-
ington at half past 11 o’clock; all our friends
were well and pleased to see us. We prolonged
our visit here 12 days, but unfortunately it
rained most of the time, which put a stop to
our rambling about much. Huntington is a
flourishing town, and bids fair to be a large
city in the future.
	On the morning of the 8th we again returned
to Price station, and took the 8 o’clock
train for Pueblo; it being night we had no
view of the country, but as day dawned we
were astir to see the country we were whirling
through. Some parts looked rather barren; as
we neared the streams it became more fertile,
and as we climbed the mountains to Marshal
Pass it was grand to behold, and a wonder how
a road could be made for the iron horse to
climb such a mountain, and the beautiful little
stream, Crystal Creek, how sparkling it was
on its course. All through Grand Cañon it is
wonderful, and there are many nice little spots
inhabited by busy people. On we are carried,
until we reach Pueblo, at half-past 8 at night;
here we have to lay over till 4:20 in the morn-
ing, when we take the Atchison Topeka & Santa
Fe route for Deming. We pass over the
barren plains of Colorado, through cañons,
over trestles that span the wash out; they look
rather toppling for such a heavy, long train to
cross; here we are surprised to see the native
Mexicans and their homes scattered along; the
train was divided to climb the mountains of
Colorado; at the top was a long tunnel; when 
we passed through it we were in New Mexico.
Here we met another train waiting for ours to
come through. A stop of twenty minutes
here for dinner, and away we go down; much
faster than we came up. We begin to come to
grassy plains and meadows and herds of stock;
they looked much better than the cattle in
Colorado. The Mexicans become numerous;
also their huts, for such they appear to us;
some beautiful country, nice streams and fields
of corn and beans, and occasionally an onion
and pepper patch. We pass through Alber-
querque at midnight. The stations are small
all through this country, or towns, as they
should be called. We follow the Rio Grande
a long way; it is a shallow, muddy stream; the
bed seems to be mostly quicksand; fine large
cottonwood trees grow along its banks.
	At Rincon we change cars. The passengers
are a motley crew, from the American to the
negro; in one car I observed five different
nationalities, and such a clatter; a keen ob-
server of the physological would have an ex-
cellent opportunity to read character in the
faces.
	We reach Deming at 3:30 p.m.  The
weather is delightful for the 11th of August
in the south, with a nice breeze to cool the air.
This is quite a busy little place, noted for its
wind mills, as that is the only means of ob-
taining water; some fine buildings, dwellings
and stores; the American custom house is here,
but few gardens or trees; everything brought
here by rail, and very reasonable prices. At
this place we were met with carriages and
teams to take us to Diaz, 95 miles.
	On the 13th we start in the evening; the
roads are level and hard, the twilight most
delightful, and evening air cool and grass in
abundance; splendid country, with many
strange sights, and afar off are the grand old
mountains. We pass several  wind mills, that
are used to get water for the herds of cattle


[Column 1]

that range over the wide plains. We camped
here at night; had a shower, not much, but re-
freshing; had supper and a good night's rest;
up early, and travel again after the usual
round of breakfast and putting things straight
for the day. Now we are amongst the moskeet
bushes, also the cactus of various kinds, and
beautiful flowers of lovely hues. We now
come to the Casas Grande River and noon; we
are delighted with the many varieties of
foliage, and gather some wild grapes, while the
birds make a terrible chattering, for fear we
might take all; the curious turtle is seen
here. We meet the first Mexicans traveling,
an old wagon, two yoke of cattle, one horse,
the whole family of a dozen; and then to drive
the team, two on one side and one on the other,
several children in the rear following. We
soon come to the guide; he accompanies us the
remainder of the way; camped with us. Next
morning, Aug. 16, we halted opposite Diaz.
Our son, the Bishop, came and took me to
Diaz, while the rest went to La Ascension to
pass through the custom house, all arriving at
12 o'clock in the little settlement of Diaz,
where we were kindly greeted by friends and
relations, and to rest after our long, tedious
journey.
	After a week in Diaz, I will try and describe
the secluded settlement a few Latter Day
Saints away in this far off land.
	The streets are laid out as our cities are
usually. Main Street runs North and South,
with shade trees of cottonwood on either side,
and a water ditch on each street. The garden
abounds in all kinds of vegetables; including
the delicous water melon in abundance; also
fruit trees and flowers of gay gorgeous hues,
that make the paths look lovely with an eye
to home adornment. The houses are built of
adobies, very large ones, also the fences and
out-houses mostly. The weather was not so
warm as we expected to find it; the nights
were cool and pleasant. We took a trip to the
upper settlement G—— W—— among the
mountains; three days travel over beauti-
ful country, passed several Mexican towns very
comically built and laid out. Their churches,
their mode of worship was explained to us, all
of which seemed very singular and simple. In
the town is a fine building built for our
dear departed brother, Apostle E. Snow, and
also many nice houses, fields, gardens, and
orchards, with the beautiful river Casas Grande
running through it; we spent six days there
with warm friends, and feasted on sweet potatoes
and melons, and returned home through as de-
lightful a valley as I ever saw, and passed the
first place the Saints settled and had to leave.
We caught fish and duck; and had the pleasure
of seeing the majestic century plant growing
in its native state and beauty. We felt well
paid for our trip around. I must say some-
thing of the ruins; we passed one town all
in ruins, it looked so lonely; also some very
large ruins which appear to have been a temple
centuries ago, and many mounds on being
opened are found cooking vessels of an extinct
people, curious shapes and various sizes. On
our return we were surprised to note the growth
of the garden and shade trees. Our stay in
Mexico was seven weeks; when we left our
dear ones to return, children and grand-children,
our sons and others came to Deming with us,
a journey of four days; we came a different
route back home, we had the pleasure of seeing
more country. We returned from Deming
as we went; the weather was stormy part of
the way. At Alberquerque we saw the Pueblo
Indians, and bought grapes, peaches, and
apples of them. We reached Salt Lake City
Oct. 15th, made a short visit there, and left on
the 24th of Oct. for home; arrived Nov. 9th,
well satisfied with our journey and visit to old
Mexico. At each settlement I was pleased to
see that the little paper EXPONENT was highly

[Column 2]

prized by the sisters. There is a Relief Society,
Primary and Y. L. M. I. Association in each
settlement, and I was told that they were
well attended, and all seemed to be alive to
their duty; health seemed to be apparent every-
where; molasses making, and haying, all
seemed to be full of business, as always is the
case with the much abused "Mormons."
	With kind regards and success for the
always welcome little valuable EXPONENT, I
remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		J. C. JOHNSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A FEW STRICTURES BY MR. STEN-
HOUSE, EX-M. P. P.

TO THE EDITOR OF THE VANCOUVER WORLD:

	Sir:—I have first of all to congratulate you
on the success of your new venture in journal-
istic enterprise, a sample of which I am de-
lighted to receive. It is true your politics
would seem to have undergone some modifica-
tion—but what matters? Consistency, in these
days, is no proof of sincerity, while its oppo-
site is often redeemed by the noblest attributes
of patriotism. You must allow me, however,
to take exception to an article which appears,
under the head of "Horrors of Mormonism,"
in your weekly edition of November 1, though
I hope I am not expected to notice at any
length the strangely obscene talk of Mrs. A.
Newman, before an assembly of ladies in New
York. No wonder it elicited, as we are told,
"exclamations of horror from all parts of the
house." Such language and such allusions are
never heard among the Latter Day Saints, but
are common enough probably in the more
modern quarters of Salt Lake City, where the
"Missionaries to Utah," hook their fish and
call them "Mormons." To find such Mormons
it is not necessary for any one but a missionary
to go so far as Utah. We have some very
good fellows in the Northwest, who had earned
the playful prefix of "Mormon" long before
the arrival of the genuine stock. In Utah the
"Jack" or mock Mormon has a commercial
value, only to be appreciated by the despairing
missionary when his report is overdue. If the
putrid utterances of Mrs. Newman had one
grain of solid truth, I would assuredly quit the
priesthood and the communion of the Mormon
Church before the advent of another day. It
is the only church in Christendom, as far as I
know, where immorality of the laity, as well
as of the clergy, is punished by excommunica-
tion.
	Your assumption that I preside over the
Latter Day Saints in the Northwest is quite:
erroneous. Our President is Mr. C. O. Card,
a son-in-law of the late Brigham Young and
the first Mormon, as it happens, that I was
privileged to meet. Our church has no lack
of giants both in mind and stature, many of
whom are the product of our much decried
polygamy, and it would have been the most
ridiculous thing in the world had the local
presidency been assigned to an obscure monog-
amous born individual like the late member for
Comox.
	In another article you quote, with amusing
complacency, the last report of the anti-Mor-
mon Governor of Utah, in which he says:
"This priesthood not only rules the church but
governs the state, &c, &c." Well, and what
then? Will it surprise your readers to learn
that not a priest, bishop or president can be or-
dained or continued in office without the
assent of the people expressed by vote in open
meeting? Or will it stun you to hear that on
all such questions the ladies—the poor down-
trodden women of Utah—have an equal voice
with the men? If there is any church in Canada
where the ladies and the laity have more power
over their clergy, I shall be glad to hear of it

[Column 2]

	I would refer the candid inquirer to a book
of travels lately published by Phil. Robinson,
a Gentile, and a man of the world, entitled
"Sinners and Saints," (Boston: Roberts Bro-
thers).  No one can read the book without
feeling that the author is indeed a "seeker
after truth." He flatters neither sinner nor
saint.  Had he catered for either, his book
would have sold better.
	One word as to polygamy; and here I wish
to be understood that I am now speaking for
myself alone—not as a Mormon, but as a man.
Everybody knows that the criminal element in
bigamy is the deception which is practiced on
one, and sometimes two, of the three parties
interested. Among the Latter Day Saints,
polygamy can only be contracted by all who
are concerned in it. I have still to graduate
in mohogamy; but when I have once attained
such eminence, it is not the action or opinion
of intermeddling governments that will deter
me from seeking higher honors in matrimony.
As a free-born Briton, I shall certainly claim
equal rights with the Indian, Mahommedan,
and other subjects of Her Majesty. You will,
therefore, understand once for all, and quite
apart from any doctrine supposed to be taught
by Mormons, that monogamy, though consecra-
ted by centuries of triumphant error, is yet
very far from defining the creed or prescribing
the practice of your very faithful servant,
		A. MAITLAND STENHOUSE.
	Cardston, Alberta, Canada. Nov. 16, 1888.


THE ANNUAL WASHINGTON CON-
			VENTION.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
will meet in Washington, D. C., January 21st,
22nd, and 23rd, 1889, at the Congregational
Church, corner of G. and 10th streets.
	Delegates from all the states are invited to be
present. The question of uniting the two so-
cieties will be again under consideration, as the
resolutions passed at the recent annual meeting
of the American society, held at Cincinnati,
demand some action on the part of the Na-
tional Association. For this and other reasons
a large gathering of the friends of this move-
ment is desirable.
	For twenty years in succession these conven-
tions have been held at the national capital,
with hearings before committees of the Senate
and House judiciary, and able minority reports
thereon, which have been extensively circulated
throughout the nation, and thus a great educa-
tional work has been accomplished. We see
the effect in the extension of the suffrage to 
woman, and a growing interest on her part in
public affairs.
	In the presidential canvass just ended, women
have taken a more active part than ever be-
fore, and shown that they are by no means a
unit on political questions. For the first time 
large delegations of women have marched with
banners, in various processions, and spoken on
the platforms of different political parties.
	Neither among politicians, nor women them-
selves, is this in any sense a party movement.
While the prohibition party incorporated
woman suffrage in its platform, the Republicans
of Kansas made it a fact by extending munici-
pal suffrage to the woman of that state. The
Democrats of Connecticut on several occasions
voted for woman suffrage while Republicans
voted against it. In the New York Legislature
Republicans and Democrats have alike advoca-
ted and voted for the measure. In Congress
the last vote in the House was eighty Repub-
licans for woman suffrage, and four Democrats
against it, and not a single Democrat voted in
favor of it on the floor of the Senate. Both 
the Labor and Greenback parties have uni-
formly recognized woman suffrage in their
platforms. 
	There are movements now in the political


horizon pointing to the formation of a national
party in the near future, combining the interests
of labor, woman, temperance and other reforms.
Our strength for future action lies in the fact
that woman suffrage has some advocates in all
parties, and that we, as a party, are pledged to
none.
	The denial of the ballot to woman is the
great political crime of the century, before
which tariff, finance; land monopoly, temper-
ance, labor, and all economic questions sink into
insignificance, for the right of suffrage involves
all questions of personal and property rights.
	While each party in power has refused to
enfranchise woman, being sceptical as to her
moral influence in government; yet with strange
inconsistency they alike seek the aid of her
voice and pen in all important political
struggles, as shown in the late presidential
campaign. While not morally bound to obey
the laws made without her consent, yet we find
woman the most law-abiding class of citizens
in the community. While not recognized as a
competent part of the government, she is most
active in all great movements for education,
religion, philanthropy and reform.
	The magnificent convocation of women from
the world over, held at Washington last March,
a council more important than any since the
Diet of Worms, was proof of woman's marvel-
ous power of organization; and her clear com-
prehension of the underlying principles of all
questions of government. With such evidence
of her keen insight and executive ability, we
invite all interested in good government to give
us the inspiration of their presence in the com-
ing convention.
		ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, Pres.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Vice Pres.
		MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE, Ch. Ex. Com.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe is said to be in
better health now than she has been for years,
and walks quite readily with the aid of a
cane.
	Lady Jane Henrietta Swinburne has en-
tered her ninetieth year. She is mother of
the poet and critic, Algernon Charles Swin-
burne.
	The Evelina de Rothschild School for Girls
at Jerusalem has been opened under the di-
rection of Mlle. Fortuee Behar. It has more
than four hundred pupils.
	The Governor of Massachusets has ap-
pointed Mrs. Kate Gannett Wells to the place
on the State Board of Education left vacant
by the death of Miss Abby W. May.
	Miss Abby W. May left $5,000 to the Home
for Aged Colored Women, $3,000 to the
Gwynne Temporary Home, and $1,000 to the
New England Hospital for Women and Child-
ren.
	At the regular monthly meeting of the ex-
ecutive committee of the Massachusetts
Woman Suffrage Association Dec. 7th, the
following was unanimously adopted:
	"In the death of our friend, Abby W. May,
woman suffrage has lost a wise and faithful
advocate, and higher education an experienced
and devoted friend. She gave twenty years
of heroic effort for the slave, five years for the
soldiers in camp and hospital, more than
twenty years for the legal and political equality
of woman. Her example will be to us an in-
centive; her memory an inspiration.—Ed.
	Talk about the trials of genius in endeavor-
ing to make itself known to a cold world! The
truth is that nowadays in these United States
there is hospitality to new writers which often

[Column 2]

becomes ludicrous in its eagerness. Authors
of common place abilities spring into sudden
prominence through no fault of their own;
and there is no danger that any writer who
possesses the least spark of originality will be
overlooked. There is no Chatterbox business
going on now. What is most needed is a
higher standard of literary taste and less spas-
modic enthusiasm.—Ex.
	A horrible occurrence is related as having
taken place at Erie, Pa. Mrs. William
Savory and Miss Lucy Stinson were bosom
friends. Miss Stinson died, and Mrs. Savory
insisted upon impressing a last kiss upon the
lips of her friend. She did so. But the un-
dertaker had just treated the face with a pre-
paration for preserving the color. Mrs.
Savory was infected, and subsequently died
from blood poisoning—a most remarkable in-
stance of the folly of a custom that has noth-
ing to recommend it but sentimentality, and
everything against it in the light of sanitary
laws and the doctrine of common sense.—Ex.
	Mrs. Cleveland has succeeded in raising one
hundred thousand dollars in order to rebuild
Wells college, the female institution where
she was graduated. It is situated a few miles
from Ithaca, N. Y. It was destroyed by fire a
few months ago. The trustees had given up
the prospect of rebuilding as impossible, when
Mrs. Cleveland came forward and gave the dis-
tressed institution her personal attention. She
not only contributed a large sum of money
herself, but she circulated a paper and induced
others to subscribe, until money enough has
been raised to rebuild the college in better 
style than it was originally.—Ex.
	"God and the Women in American Public
Affairs" was the suggestive heading of a ser-
mon preached Sunday, Dec. 16, in Tremont
Temple, Boston, by Rev. Emory J. Haynes. 
He said:  It was the influence of the woman
in the home, by the breakfast table, over the
father and brother, that was the one factor in
the last municipal election which did more
than any other to win the victory. We have
our publicists and politicians, but it is to the
women we must look for the future of the
country. That is what did it—the influence of
home. These same home influences are going
to continue at all the municipal elections. That
is the great power of women. Woman, I be-
lieve in you! The records show that the
criminals are five men to one woman. To be
pure and self-sacrificing comes to women more
naturally than to men. We believe in you
because you have led men in the Christian
church. I hope you will help us to right a
thousand wrongs.—Ex.


Women have more strength in their looks
than we have in our laws, and more power by
their tears than we have by our arguments.—
Savile.
	In a truly good character we look, first of
all, for integrity, or an unbending regard to
recitude; then for independence, or the habitual
determination to be governed by an enlight-
ened conviction of truth and duty; then for
benevolence, or the spirit of kindness and
good will to men; and last, but not least, for
piety toward God, or an affectionate, reverent
regard for the will and glory of the great
Jehovah.—Hawes.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Union, Salt Lake County, Dec. 6th, 1888,
Mary Ann Alberta Cunningham, the beloved daughter of
Hyrum H. and Della A. Brady, of membranous croup,
aged one year, ten months and eight days.

	I laid my darling down with a sigh,
		In grief, for sorrow was too deep;


My anguished heart could only cry,
		"O, God in heaven, my darling keep."

	I know my darling's form will wait
		Beyond this world, where grief's dark night
	Enshroud my saddened life, at heaven's gate
		I'll meet my child where all is light.
			M. A. SMART.

	DIED, at East Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah, after an ill-
ness of two months, Sept. 23rd, 1888, Emma Maria, be-
loved wife of Daniel Wood. Deceased was born July 12,
1834, in Plymouth, England. Baptized Feb. 25, 1851, by
Charles Phelps. She embraced the order of plural mar-
riage, was the mother of six children and twenty-three
grandchildren. Sister Wood was a faithful member in the
Relief Society, and labored in the capacity of a teacher
for many years; was always prompt to her meetings and
fulfilling her duties honorably, and died in full faith of the
Gospel, and in the hope of a glorious resurrection.
	And as teaohers of the Relief Society we feel to offer to
her memory the following:

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, in the Providence of our Heavenly Father He
has seen fit to take from our Society our sister, Emma
Maria Wood, and,
	Whereas, our departed friend and sister was worthy of
our warmest affection, we feel that proper recognition of
her goodness and virtue be had among us. Therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Relief Society of
East Bountiful, deeply mourn the loss of our sister and
hold her name in affectionate remembrance.
	Resolved, That we extend our sympathy to her family,
and that we try to live that we may be prepared to meet
her, when we have finished our work here below.
	Resolved, that these Resolutions be spread on our record,
also a copy sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		ANN DUSTIN,
		JANE HOLT, Committee.
		ESTHER SESSIONS,


R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address.  DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1889.	NO. 16.


TREASURES.

"Will you keep my new knife, mother?
	I might dull the shining blade;
Please to keep it ready for me,
	Or I'll lose it, I'm afraid."
"Yes, I'll keep it for you, darling,"
	And I kiss the rosy lips,
While upon his golden ringlets,
	Softly rest my finger tips,

"Please to keep my marbles, muzzer,
	So zey won't get rolled away;"
"And my pretty bead and buttons;"
	And my top string, while I play."
Four dear boys thus bring their treasures,
	I must keep them all in reach;
Four loved forms to watch and care for,
	Four bright infant minds to teach.

As to me they bring their treasures,
	So to Thee, oh, God above!
I entrust them, ever praying,
	Keep them safely in Thy love.
And, lest I should spoil or lose them,
	'Mid earth's busy cares and strife,
Teach me, Father, how to bring them,
	Back to Thee with Endless Life!

		LULA


REVERIE.

We laugh when our souls are the saddest,
	We shroud all our griefs in a smile;
Our voices may warble their gladdest,
	And our souls mourn in anguish the while.

And our eyes wear a summer's bright glory,
	When winter is wailing beneath;
And we tell not the world the sad story
	Of the thorn hidden back of the wreath.

Ah! fast flow the moments of laughter,
	And bright as the brook to the sea;
But ah! the dark hours that come after
	Of moaning for you and for me.

Yea, swift as the sunshine, and fleeting
	As birds, fly the moments of glee!
And we smile; and mayhap grief is sleeting
	Its ice upon you and on me.

And the clouds of the tempest are shifting
	O'er the heart, tho' the face may be bright;
And the snows of woe's winter are drifting
	Our souls; and each day hides a night.
 
For ah! when our souls are enjoying
	The mirth which our faces reveal,
There is something—a something—alloying
	The sweetness of joy that we feel.

Life's loveliest sky hides the thunder,
	Whose bolt in a moment may fall,
And out path may be flowery; but under
	The flower there are thorns for us all.

Ah! 'tis hard when our beautiful dreamings.
	That flash down the valley of night,
Wave their wing when the gloom hides their gleaming,
	And leave us, like eagles in flight;

And fly far away nnreturning,
	And leave us in terror and tears,
While vain is the spirit's wild yearning
	That they may come back in the years.

Come back! did I say it? but never
	Do eagles come back to the cage:
They have gone—they have gone—and forever!
	Does youth come back ever to age?

No! a joy that has left us in sorrow
	Smiles never again on our way;


But we meet in the farthest to-morrow
	The face of the grief of to-day.

The brightness whose tremulous glimmer
	Has faded we cannot recall;
And the light that grows dimmer and dimmer—
	When gone—'tis forever and all.

Not a ray of it anywhere lingers,
	Not a gleam of it gilds the vast gloom;
Youth's roses perfume not the fingers
	Of age groping nigh to the tomb.

For the "memory of joy is a sadness"—
	The dim twilight after the day;
And the grave where we bury a gladness
	Sends a grief, like a ghost, on our way.

No day shall return that has faded,
	The dead come not back from the tomb;
The vale of each life must be shaded,
	That we may see best from the gloom.

The height of the home of our glory
	All radiant with splendors of light;
That we may read clearly life's story—
	"The dark is the dawn of the bright."

		A. J. R.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING.

AN ASSOCIATION FOR UTAH.

	An official call having been previously
issued, signed by influential women of the
Territory, for a meeting of suffragists, to be
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Thurs-
day, January 10, 1889, accordingly, in re-
sponse there was a large number of ladies in
attendance, residents of Salt Lake City and
vicinity, and representative women from other
parts of the Territory. Upon the platform
were several prominent ladies—Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young and Mrs. Margaret P. Young, Mrs.
Emily S. Richards, Mrs. Lena Wells, Mrs.
Nellie Webber, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, Mrs.
Charlotte I. Kirby, Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall,
Mrs. Birdie Cummings, Mrs. L. Ardelle Cum-
mings, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, Mrs. Julia C.
Taylor, Mrs. Edith Knowlton and others. At
the reporters' table were seated Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Editor of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
and Mrs. R. B. Pratt, M. D. Opposite the
platform were Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Mrs. B.
W. Smith, Mrs. Mary Pitchforth,Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard, Mrs. Nellie Little and other distin-
guished ladies.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young stated the object of 
the meeting, and that Mrs. Emily S. Richards
had been duly authorized to preside and to
organize a Woman Suffrage Association for
Utah Territory, having been appointed Chair-
man of the Executive Committee for Utah at
the last Annual Convention of the N. W. S. A.
in Washington, D. C., April, 1888. Mrs.
Richards then took the chair and said, "Will
some one nominate a Secretary?" Mrs. M. Y.
Dougall noninated Mrs. L. D. Alder as Secre-
tary pro tem. Mrs. Ardelle Cummings seconded
the motion. Carried.
	The meeting opened with singing by the con-
gregation, "Know this, that every soul is free;"
and an earnest prayer was offered by Mrs. M.
I. Horne.
	The Chairman then requested the Secretary
to read the Call, which was responded to, and
the call was read.
	The ladies of Utah Territory who are inter-

[Column 2]

ested in the subject of woman's suffrage con-
template organizing a Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation.
	For this purpose a meeting of suffragists
will be held in the Assembly Hall, Salt Lake
City, on Thursday, January 10, 1889, com-
mencing at 2 p.m.
	All ladies interested in the cause of woman's 
enfranchisement and political advancement are
cordially invited to be present and take part
in the meeting.
			Respectfully,
		EMILY S. RICHARDS,
Chairman Ex. Com. N. W. S. A. for Utah.
		ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
	Prest. Cen. Board Relief Society.
		JANE S. RICHARDS,
		BATHSHEBA W. SMTIH,
Vice-Prest's Cen. Board Relief Society.
		JOSEPHINE R. WEST,
	Prest. P. A. Associations Weber Co.
		DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
		ELIZABETH HOWARD,
		ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.,
		E. B. WELLS,
	Ex-Vice-Prest. N. W. S. A. for Utah.
	Members National Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation.
	Chairman said, "You have heard the Call
and understand its object; we will now proceed
to organize."
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougall nominated Mrs. Margaret
Caine, President of the Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation of Utah; the nomination was seconded,
and the motion put by the Chairman and
carried unanimously. Chairman suggested
that some one nominate three Vice-Presidents.
Mrs. C. I. Kirby nominated Mrs. Lydia D.
Alder as First Vice-President; seconded by 
the ladies on the platform; Chairman put the 
motion; carried. Mrs. L. D. Alder nominated
Mrs. Nellie Webber, Second Vice-President;
seconded by several of the ladies on the plat-
form; carried. Mrs. Ardelle Cummings nomi-
nated Mrs. Priscilla Jennings Riter, Third
Vice-President; seconded and carried. Mrs.
Birdie Cummings nominated Mrs. Cornelia
H. Clayton, Secretary of the Association; mo-
tion seconded and carried, and Mrs. C. I.
Kirby Corresponding Secretary; carried. Mrs.
Birdie Cummings nominated Miss Margie
Dwyer, Treasurer of the Association; carried.
Chairman said, "The appointing of an Execu-
tive Committe is now in order." Mrs. Alder
nominated Mrs. M. Y. Dougall, Chairman of 
Executive Committee, and the names of Mrs.
Nettie Y. Snell, Mrs. Ann E. Groesbeck, Mrs.
Phebe Y. Beatie and Mrs. Jennie Rowe were
then presented as members of such committee;
voted upon and carried. Chairman asked the
secretary to please read the Constitution of the
National Woman Suffrage Association. Secre-
tary read as desired.

CONSTITUTION.
	ART. 1. This organization shall be called
the National Woman Suffrage Association.
	ART. 2. The object of this Association shall
be to secure national protection for women in
the exercise of their citizen's right to vote.
	ART. 3. All citizens of the United States
subscribing to this Constitution, and contribut-
ing not less than one dollar annually, shall be
considered members of this Association.
	ART. 4. The officers of this Association


[Column 1]

﻿shall be a president, vice-president from each
of the states and territories, corresponding and
recording secretaries, a treasurer, and an exe-
cutive committee of not less than five.
	ART. 5. A quorum of the executive com-
mittee shall consist of nine, and all officers of
this Association shall be exofficio members of
this committee, with power to vote.
	ART. 6. All woman suffrage societies
throughout the country shall be welcomed as
auxiliaries, and their accredited officers or duly
appointed representatives shall be recognized as
members of the National Association.
	Chairman: "You have heard the Constitution
of the N. W. S. A., what is the pleasure of
the meeting?" Mrs. Alder: "I move it be
adopted." This motion was seconded by a large
number of ladies present, and the  Constitu-
tion was adopted.
	Chairman suggested that some one nominate a
Committee on By-Laws. Mrs. Dougall moved
that the Chairman appoint the Committee.
Chairman appointed Mrs. Lottie Young, Mrs.
Julia C. Taylor, Edith Knowlton, Committee
on By-Laws. Committee retired.
	While the Committee were out Mrs. C. I.
Kirby addressed the audience. She spoke of
the advantages to be derived from woman
suffrage, and presented some of her views and
the information she had obtained at home and
abroad in regard to woman's work and influence.
When Mrs. Kirby concluded, Mrs. Jane S.
Richards was called for, but declined; and Mrs.
Z. D. H. Young responded to her name, and
addressed the meeting. Her speech was elo-
quent and pathetic; she appealed to the heart:
her subject was, "Woman and Motherhood,"
and her ideas were so gracefully conveyed, that
every heart was touched in a tender place.
	The Committee came in and reported, and
Mrs. Julia C. Taylor read the "By-Laws and
Regulations." After the reading some one
moved that they be read and voted upon separ-
ately. The Secretary read as requested, and
the By-Laws and Regulations were adopted
separately. The following is a copy:

BY-LAWS AND REGULATIONS
			
ARTICLE I.
	This Association shall be called the Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah.

ARTICLE II. 
	The object of the Association shall be to
work for the enfranchisement, of all women,
without regard to party, sect, or creed, and to
take such steps from time to time as shall seem
to be wise and expedient for the political ad-
vancement of the women of this Territory.

ARTICLE III.
	The officers of this Association shall be a
President, three Vice-Presidents, a Secretary,
Corresponding Secretary and Treasurer, with
an Executive Committee of not less than five.

ARTICLE IV.
	All persons wishing to become members of
this Association must pay an initiation fee of
25 cts. annually, and must give or send their
names with the money to the Secretary, who
will present them in the order of business to
the next regular meeting for admission.

ARTICLE V.
	The officers of this Association, with the
Executive Committee, shall have power to
change or amend the By-Laws and Regula-
tions at any Executive session, and shall
then submit them to the regular meeting, where
they may be adopted by a majority vote.

ARTICLE VI.
	The Executive Committee shall devise plans
of work suited to the development and progress

[Column 2]

of the members of the Association, and co-
operate together with the members in encourag-
ing young people to speak, write essays and
discuss questions upon political matters and
civil government, and such other subjects as
relate thereto; and invite those not already in-
terested in suffrage, and encourage them to
become acquainted with the objects of the
organization.

ARTICLE VII.
	The names of delegates to the Annual Con-
vention of the N. W. S. A. at Washington
shall be presented and voted upon at the an-
nual meeting of the Association, previous to
said Convention, or a special meeting called
for the purpose. The Credentials of the dele-
gates shall be prepared by the Executive Com-
mittee and properly signed by the Officers of
the Association.

ARTICLE VIII.
	All official papers and documents shall be
signed by the President and Secretary, or, in
the absence of the President, Vice-President
next in order, and all official correspondence
must be signed by the Chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee and the Corresponding Secre-
tary.
 
ARTICLE IX.
	Regular meetings of this Association shall
be held once a month, and such business tran-
sacted as shall be brought to the attention of
the meeting by the Executive Committee or
the Secretary, or other officers, after which
miscellaneous business or discussion will be in
order.

ARTICLE X.
	A punctual attendance of the members is
particularly requested, in order to further the
interests of the whole, and to promote harmony
in all plans and methods of organized work.

ARTICLE XI.
	All local suffrage associations that may be
organized throughout the Territory, by adopt-
ing these rules, or similar ones, and the Con-
stitution of the N. W. S. A., shall be considered
auxiliaries, and their representatives or dele-
gates will be expected to attend a Territorial
Suffrage Convention should one be called, and
entitled to the privileges pertaining thereto.

	A suggestion was made in reference to dele-
gates to the National Woman Suffrage Conven-
tion to be held in Washington, D. C., Jan. 21,
22 and 23, and Mrs. Kirby nominated Mrs.
Emily S. Richards as one of the delegates,
which was seconded and sustained by unani-
mous vote. Mrs. Margaret Caine was then
nominated by Mrs. Alder, and the nomination
seconded she was chosen unanimously. The
Credentials for the delegates were alluded to,
and the officers were reminded that the Execu-
tive Committee were authorized to prepare the
Credentials. The ladies came forward and
gave their names to the Secretary, and about
one hundred were enrolled members of the
Association.
	An adjournment was moved, as there was
no further business, and the motion being
seconded the meeting was adjourned for one
month, notice of time and place of meeting to be
published by the Secretary.

OFFICERS.
		EMILY S. RICHARDS,
	Ch. Ex. Com. N. W. S. A. for Utah.
WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION OF UTAH:
	MARGARET CAINE,
		President;
	LYDIA D. ALDER,
		First Vice-President;

[Column 3]

	NELLIE WEBBER,
		Second Vice-President;
	PRISCILLA JENNINGS RITER,
		Third Vice-President;
	MARIA YOUNG DOUGALL,
		Ch. Ex. Committee;
	CORNELIA H. CLAYTON,
		Secretary;
	CHARLOTTE I. KIRBY,
		Corresponding Secretary;
	MARGIE DWYER,
		Treasurer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


PLEASANT PARTY.

	A number of the officers of the Primary
Associations of Davis Stake met at the resi-
dence of Sister Aurelia S. Rogers, at Farming-
ton, Dec. 28,1888, to manifest their apprecia-
tion of her past labors, in the form of a sur-
prise, she having been confined to her bed for
nearly six weeks.
	Her First Counselor, Sister Julia Hess, was
unanimously chosen to take charge of the
exercises, which consisted of remarks from all
the sisters present, and songs from the Prim-
ary Hymn Book; also an original poem was
rendered by the author, Counselor Lucy A.
Clark.
	After listening to many expressions of affec-
tion and words of encouragement from the sis-
ters, Sister Rogers sat up in her bed and though,
very weak, said words could not express her
gratitude to the sisters who had come to see
her, for she would never forget it; though there
were some of the presidents absent, yet she
thought of them all, and all seemed as dear to
her as her own sisters. She cherished the love
and good wishes of the sisters more than gold
or silver. During her sickness she had been
near the “other side,” but thought that if God
would spare her longer she would serve Him
better. Feared that we allowed our minds to
dwell more on the things of this world than on
the things of God, which is not right; knew she
would be better. She blessed the sisters in all
their outgoings and incomings, and invoked
the blessings of God upon all His chosen ones.
The Primary hymn, “Nay, speak no ill,” was
sang, after which her Counselors presented her
with a beautiful plush wrap, bought by the
Primaries of the Stake, which was received
with gratitude unspeakable. The sisters then
sung, “The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing,” and then the tables were spread, and
about twenty-five persons, including the Presi-
dency of the Stake, the Bishop and Counselors
and a number of brethren who were invited in
after the priesthood meeting, partook of a
bounteous repast, after which the brethren ad-
ministered to Sister Rogers, and then dispersed
to their several homes, feeling that it was good
to have been there.
		ANNA S. ROCKWOOD,
		KATE M. CHASE,
		ELIZABETH G. FORD, Committee.
		WEALTHY R. CLARK, Secretary.


Another meeting was held last week to pro-
mote the return of women as county council-
lors. The devoted ladies who are going to
make victims of themselves and test the eligi-
bility of women as candidates, are Margaret
Lady Sandhurst and Miss Jane Cobden, for
London, and Mrs. Massingberd, for the Lind-
say division of Lincolnshire. Both the two
first named ladies addressed the meeting at St.
James’s Hall on Saturday. The audience
was largely composed of ladies. The chair-
man, Mr. Channing, M. P., advised all lady
candidates to persist in their candidature, as
he believed that the first rejected nomination
would be the surest way of getting rid of the
barrier that some said existed.— Westminster
and Lambeth Gazette.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHITE CHRYSANTHEMUMS.

	Born of the clouds and the darkness,
		Of the frosts and the early snow;
	When the summer blooms have faded,
		The beautiful Christ-flowers blow.
	All through the budding springtime,
		All through the summer's heat,
	All through the autumn's glory,
		They hide their blossoms sweet.
	But when the earth is lonely,
		And the bitter north winds blow,
	With a smile of cheer for the dear old year,
		The Christmas blossoms blow.

	Sweet as the dream of summer,
		White as the drifting snow;
	When our hearts are filled with grieving,
		The beautiful Christ-flowers blow.
	Not all the south-wind's wooing
		Opens their secret heart;
	Slender they grow and stately,
		Guarding their life apart.
	But when the earth is dreary,
		And heavy clouds hang low,
	With their tender cheer for the way-worn year,
		The Christmas blossoms blow.

	Sweetest of all consolers!
		Fairest of flowers that grow !
	When hopes and flowers have faded,
		The beautiful Christ-flowers blow.
	Bright in the cottage window,
		Sweet in the darkened room,
	Fair in the shortened sunlight,
		Cheering the dusky gloom.
	Oh, when our hearts are lonely,
		And clouds of care hang low,
	What blessed cheer for our dying year,
		The Christmas blossoms blow !
									—Selected.


AT THE RANCHE.

I write you as one in my Christmas letter,
As in life you have been for worse or for better;
God grant that the worst has all gone bye,
That "the better 'twill be in the year drawing nigh.
'Tis the birthday of Jesus, sweet peace to the soul
He can give, though dark billows may over us roll,
Let us thank Him for all of His mercy and love,
And pray He may guide us still onward above.
The past year brought shadow, but, too, it brought light,
The gleams of the morning still follow the night.
'Twas hard when another was called from the fold,
When the eold earth claimed our Mattie to hold;
But we all know she's called back unto God,
'Tis only the casket that sleeps 'neath the sod.
Close, close by her mother, whose last earthly care,
Was for the frail Mattie who needed her care,
Again can I hear her wild, pitiful cry,
"Oh, God! I can't live if my mother should die."
Don't think I am sorrowful, no, when I think
Of the joining again of that severed link,
I forget our own loss, our sorrow and pain,
When I know unto them 'tis an eternal gain;
I will not turn back the leaves of the past.
The light and the shadow over them cast,
For we have shared them all together,
The stormy and the pleasant weather.
I am thinking now of the children all,
With a loving wish for both large and small;
Johnie, the first of our precious band,
Born upon Zion's favored land,
Unto her colors be firm and true,
And the crown of the victor awaiteth you.
I cannot speak of them all apart,
But each hath a place in my inmost heart;
There's Belle and Nettie, and Minnie dear,
Have helped to brighten my pathway here.
Soon again may we have our Christmas tree
All together, and—let me see—
Let us appoint our committee here,
To take the lead in our reunion cheer—
Mamie and Susie, Jen and Fan
(You may find a better one if you can),
With the two Johns and Vaughan, that's seven,
Or had we not better have eleven?
For Georgie and Lucy, Alex and Sam


Will have to look out for a Juvenile Jam,
For there'll be a troop of them, little and big;
All tumbling and jumping or dancing a jig.
There's all of Sam's, with young Sam at the head,
Propitious all of the "trundle bed,"
With Belle's and Nettie's, and how many more
Are coming along from the heavenly shore?
And all the homeless, you know are mine,
There'll be quite a few of them to dine!
Minnie and Belle the two shall be
To receive our guests to the Christmas tree;
And Nettie shall sing,
	"Hush, my dear, lie still and slumber,
		Holy angels guard thy bed;
	Heavenly blessings without number,
		Gently falling on thy head."
			S. E. R.
Dec. 25th, 1888.


CHRISTMAS TIME IN MEXICO.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Well! here I am, away up in the mountains
of Mexico, and nearly Christmas, the time of
"Peace on earth, good will to men." How
strange the changes which occur, and we notice
them more when Christmas time comes, as we
look back from year to year, conning over the
gay and merry time of childhood, and the none
the less enjoyable occasions of more mature
years; such a train of thought is awakened that
it becomes a task to write, unless one had a gift
for dotting down one's thoughts as they come,
and making them more readable than I feel 
capable of doing.
	Where are the playmates of childhood? the
companions of youth? Time has no doubt
brought changes to them as great as to us.
How are the absent loved ones, and how will
they spend the holidays, are queries often put
by the children, bless them! Christmas has a
charm for happy, innocent childhood, no matter
how simple the preparations, how limited the
presents, the fact that they are made by loving
hands, makes them, I sometimes think, more
appreciated, than would be more costly ones.
	And after all a view of the fine display and
magnificent array of Christmas goods in the
show windows of Salt Lake, and that delight
of childhood, the Christmas tree, with its
weight of good things, cannot alone bring
happiness, even to our little ones. By the way
there is no lack of Christmas trees here, if they
do lack the trimming, for this is a land of
pines; we certainly have some magnificent
scenery here, and when viewed either in the
daytime by the light of the glorious sunshine,
or by the light of the full round moon, it seems
to me it would be hard to excel the crags and
peaks of the majestic mountains, the tall,
straight pines casting their shadows eastward,
and the evergreen oaks with their thick, dark
foliage, and over all the clear blue sky, the
twinkling stars, and mellow light of the moon,
the queen of night, forms a scene which is
indescribably lovely, and has a charm for me
which I cannot explain.
	I have been for a lovely walk with the
children, at the earnest solicitation of my
boys, and have enjoyed it very much; we
climbed their favorite peak, almost solid rock
seemingly, and yet with soil enough for a com-
paratively thick growth of trees, and from
which we can trace the winding of the river,
the "Peadris Verde," and across that, perhaps
a mile or two distant, a large group of curious
looking rocks, perfectly bare of vegetation,
which look like so many old castles of every
kind and description. I felt well paid for the
climbing, and returned with a bouquet of dry
grass, oak leaves, etc., and several varieties of
beautiful moss from the trees and rocks.
	On our way here a few weeks ago we passed
one peak of this range of mountains, which
was different to anything I ever saw before,
towering perhaps five hundred feet above us at


the side of the road.  It took but little stretch
of the imagination to convert the rocks at its
summit into multitudes of people, some gaily
and others grotesquely attired; one figure in
particular attracted my attention, that of an
old and venerable monk seated in an old-
fashioned, straight backed arm chair, just as I
have seen in pictures; some elegantly dressed
ladies just out on a shopping expedition.  But
I shall tire your readers, so adieu for the
present.					KATE.
	Sierra Madre Mountains, Mexico, Dec. 23,
1888.


SIMPLE SIMON.
     It is very ridiculous and altogether unbe-
coming for men who have come into this com-
munity as business men, and been patronized
by the people to turn round and berate those
who have never done aught against them,
merely, it would appear, for the sake of popu-
larity.  What other motive could prompt men
whose business interests are here, to go east
and voluntarily try to suggest a “holy crusade”
against a practice already legislated upon
severely by the Congress of the United States.
Ill-timed and in very bad taste are all such
speeches.  Whoever tries to climb up by pull-
ing another down, will surely meet his just
deserts.  It is in keeping with some others,
however, who wield the pen more than the
needle, who, living among the “Mormons,”
receiving their patronage, associating with
them in neighborhoods socially, and depending
upon them for friendly aid and assistance in
times of sickness, are constrained from their
very love of popularity, to misrepresent them
through the press and in public assemblies, be-
cause it is the fashion.  Now one can see
plainly that milliners must be a la mode, and
therefore perhaps should be excused, but what
grievance had this man to present to the Presi-
dent-elect?  had Gen. Harrison inquired “What
have you to complain of in Utah?” he would
doubtles have been forced to acknowledge, like
the other simple Simon, “Indeed I have not
any.”
	"Simple Simon met a pieman
		Going to the Fair;
	Said Simple Simon to the pieman
		Let me taste your ware;
	Said the pieman to Simple Simon,
		Show me first your penny;
	Said Simple Simon to the pieman,
		Indeed I have not any."
							MILLINER.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	No man can answer for his own valor or
courage till he has been in danger—Rochefou-
cault.
	Drinking water neither makes a man sick,
nor in debt, nor his wife a widow.—Spanish
Maxim.
	There seem to be but three ways for a nation
to acquire wealth: the first is by war, as the
Romans did, in plundering their conquered
neighbors—this is robbery; the second by com-
merce, which is generally cheating; the third
by agriculture—the only honest way wherein a
man receives a real increase of the seed thrown
into the ground, is in a kind of continual miracle,
wrought by the hand of God in his favor, as a
reward for his innocent life and his virtuous
industry.—Franklin.


The State University of Oregon has 15
women students.
     Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney is to write the life of
Louisa M. Alcott.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,  Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

     Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,		       JANUARY 15, 1889.


[Column 1]

PASSING EVENTS.

	There are many interesting things transpiring
at the present time, that are worthy of record in
the history of this people, and yet the Latter-day
Saints are, most of them, more or less indifferent in
regard to the importance of the scenes and events
that are actually taking place among them day by
day, in fulfillment of the prophecies of Scripture
and of the servants of the Lord in modern times.
It is so natural to worship the past, to revere the
men and women who have lived and labored in
the ages gone by, and of whom history has re-
corded only their most sublime acts, but the real,
actual present is perhaps more prescient with
telling and significant realities, and those of
greater magnitude than any other age of the
world has ever been. It is the day and time to
which all the greatest men, seers and revelators
looked forward to and desired to see, "the dis-
pensation of the fulness of times," that glorious
day when all dispensations that have ever been
will "be welded together;" the keys of former
dispensations have been restored again, the turn-
ing of the hearts of the fathers to the children
and the children to the fathers has begun, and
those who live in this day are made partakers of
these wonderful blessings, and without appreciat-
ing their value. That there is a grand purpose in
what is deemed of little consequence, except as it
affects the Saints pecuniarily there is no reason to
doubt, and as for the riches of this world, it is not
to be considered in comparison to the greater
blessings the Lord has bestowed upon His people.
Certainly it is necessary to have sufficient material
wealth to build up Zion, but that will come in the
due time of the Lord, even if the government
takes away all the public property, that has been
accumulated since the settling of these valleys.
That it has been honestly earned and sacredly
given to build Temples and to beautify and adorn
Zion, that all nations might flock hither as has
been ages ago predicted, is verily true be-
yond contradiction. yet the designs of the
Almighty cannot be frustrated, and the Lord's
work will roll on triumphantly, and no power on
earth can stay its course, and those who persecute
the Saints are fulfilling the Scriptures, though
they know it not.
	The Church cases now pending before the
Supreme Court of the United States, in which so
much pertaining to rights of property, liberty and
privileges is involved, are of greater moment
than one is likely to think, unless viewing the
matter by the light of inspiration. The truth is
those who live in this era of the world's history
when so much is being accomplished in so short
a space of time, look at things with a natural eye,
do not perceive that God is in it all, and are not
therefore prepared to acknowledge His hand in
all that is coming to pass, but seek to solve by

[Column 2]

scientific laws known to the world of mankind,
the great problems that are being worked out by a
higher rule than any known to-day among the
children of men. A glimpse of divine light
seen occasionally and with the spiritual eye of
discernment, has proved how vast and incompre-
hensible are the plans of the great Creator of the
universe. His ways are indeed past finding out,
and He turns and overturns at His good-will and
pleasure. He has laid down certain rules for men
to walk by, certain laws to keep in order to obtain
a knowledge of the Gospel, and has promised
those who comply with these requirements a por-
tion of His Spirit, which shall bring things to
their remembrance; "it is the spirit of prophecy
and reveals future events." Therefore, those who
are in possession of the Spirit of God are likely
not only to know more of what is transpiring
around them, but to know concerning future
events, and to be prepared therefor; and the
satisfaction that such true knowledge must bring
with it, cannot be conpared to the wisdom of the
wise in the learning of the world. This was the
spirit that made Joseph great above his fel-
lows, and the same spirit that caused Joseph the
Prophet in this day and age to warn men to re-
pentance and seek unto the Lord, and gave him a
knowledge of what was to come to pass upon this
land. And some of the things he prophesied of
have already taken place, and others are near at
hand, nearer, it may be, than many even of the
Latter-day Saints are aware of.


[column 1]
RECEPTION AT DEVEREUX HOUSE.

	"But happy they, the happiest of their kind,
	     Whom gentle stars unite, and in one fate
	Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings blend."
* 	  *	    *	      *	  *	    *	      *	*		
					What is the world to them
	"Its pomp, its pleasure, and its nonsense all,
	      Who in each other clasp whatever fair,
	High fancy forms, and lavish hearts can wish?"

     On Wednesday evening, January 9th, 1889, a 
wedding reception was given at the Devereux
House in this city, the occasion being the marriage
of two of the daughters of Mrs. William Jennings.
Miss Emma L. Jennings and Hon. J. E. Carlisle,
of Logan, Editor of the Utah Jaurnal of that 
place, were married in Logan on the third inst,
and Miss Maye C. Jennings and Mr. J. B. Farlowe,
of this city, were married the evening of the re-
ception, at Devereux House.  Judge Sanford per-
formed the ceremony at 6:30 p.m.  The reception
given in honor of the two young ladies was a
magnificent affair.  The beautiful and spacious
grounds were brilliantly lighted, indicating the
joy and festivity within, and the house itself was
fairly ablaze with light and beauty.  A band of
music was constantly playing in the upper hall,
which added much to the enchantment of the en-
tertainment.
     Hundreds of guests were present, all anxious
to pay their respects to the hostess and to con-
gratulate the newly wedded brides and bride-
grooms.  The house was decorated artistically
with fresh flowers and vines from their own con-
servatory, and the fresh blown roses and the
orange blossoms made the atmosphere of the
rooms fragrant with their sweet perfume, besides
adding greatly to the delight of the guests.
     The presents were far too numerous to be
separately mentioned, and we must therefore only
say they were sufficiently beautiful to satisfy the
most capricious young lady, and evidently the
new-made brides had many friends anxious to ex-
press their love and appreciation at this auspicious
time.
     The dresses of the two brides were in exquisite
taste and very becoming, although it is sometimes
said brides always look sweet, yet we are pre-
pared to testify Mrs. Carlisle and Mrs. Farlowe

[column 2]
certainly did look not only radiant in their bridal
attire, but the picture of ineffable happiness.
     The elegant parlors were filled with ladies and
gentlemen, who, after offering their congratula-
tions and good wishes, were seen talking in
groups here and there, and all seemingly enjoying
the happy moments as they flew.  The dining hall
was fitted up like a tropical bower, and beautifully
lighted with chandeliers, and the glitter of silver
and exquisite china and the tempting viands
cannot be described in words, but one might with
all propriety say,

"And the tables they groaned with the weight of the feast,
Nor yet had the laughter and merriment ceased."

     The party was a happy affair and a genuine
success, but the mother just about to part with her
daughters from their childhood's home wore a
very sober face.  Mr. and Mrs. Farlowe bade
adieu to the family and guests about nine p.m. and
departed for the West on their bridal tour.  Guests
were coming and going until a late hour, and it
was midnight ere the entertainment was over.
     The EXPONENT tenders its most sincere con-
gratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Carlisle and to Mr. 
and Mrs. Farlowe on the occasion of their mar-
riage, and wishes for them,

	"The path of peace and holy love;
	      May life continued joys renew;
	May hope not too deceptive prove;—
 	      May sweet contentment round them throw
	      Such bliss as may be found below!"


IN MEMORIAM.

CLARA D. YOUNG.

"Weep not that her trials are over, weep not that her race
	is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work like hers
	is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness our treasures to
	Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth His loved
	ones sleep."

	It is seldom that one passes to her rest about
whom such a peacefulness lingered, and such a
sweet resignation overshadowed, as the sister
whose death we now with loving remembrance
record. We knew her in her youth, when all the
charms of early budding womanhood were just
springing into life, and from that time onward saw
her frequently, and was associated with her in
many of the scenes and events that have transpired
in the history of the women of this people.
	Although, as others have written before me, she
was of a reticent and retiring disposition, yet the
circumstances of her life brought her into public
notice. The very fact of her having married
Brigham Young, certainly one of the greatest
men of his time, and who made such a mark in
the world that all those connected with him are,
more or less, partakers of his fame, when in her
early girlhood, and her being one of the three
pioneer women who crossed the plains in '47, be-
fore any road had been marked out, or spot desig-
nated as a place of rest for the weary pilgrims,
these two events in her life history have immor-
talized her name, without any desire for fame or
celebrity on her own part. A great writer and 
poet once said, "Some people aspire to greatness
and some have it thrust upon them," and with
Sister Clara it was certainly unsought, but who
shall say it was not her destiny, marked out be-
forehand? Assuredly not the writer of this sim-
ple tribute to her memory. That she bore her
honors gracefully and without any affectation, all
her friends realize; and also that she shrank from
any mention of her name or any public demonstra-
tion of respect, even upon occasions when it was
positively a favor to the people for her to accept a
place of honor.
	Her home-life was beautiful under all conditions;


[Column 1]

she was sweet-mannered, gentle, patient and for-
bearing, and possessed in an eminent degree the
"charity that thinketh no evil." This characteris-
tic made her specially dear to many, and in all the
tender and sweet amenities of domestic life, her
example is of the highest order of excellence.
As a mother she was all that the word implies in
its best and highest sense, not only to the child-
ren God had given to her, but to those whose lot
was cast with hers, deprived by death of their own
mother. She left no duty unperformed for them
that their own mother could have done, and aside
from duty her love was as precious and as freely
given to the orphaned ones as to her own, as far
as human eyes could see. Her generosity to the
needy was well-known to her friends, though she
gave without the least shadow of ostentation, and
in the language of the Scripture, let not the left
hand know what her right hand was doing. Many
of the poor and the unfortunate will miss her
kindly deeds and words of comfort, for she was
verily a "friend in need" and "a friend indeed."
Her life is thickly sown with good seeds, that
must yield an abundant harvest in the time to
come, and she will assuredly reap a rich reward
from the fruits of her labors here below. It is
impossible to mourn long for such an one.

"So He calls them in from their labors, ere the shadows
	round them creep,
And silently watching o'er them, He giveth His loved ones
	sleep."

	And thus Sister Clara fell asleep, for it was only
like a gentle slumber; she looked the very picture
of repose and tranquility as she lay in her soft
flowing robes in the casket that only held that
which was mortal, for the pure spirit, freed from
its earthly tabernacle, had gone to join the beloved
ones behind the vail—husband and children,
father and mother, and many relatives and friends,
and the great rejoicing at her coming was doubt-
less more than equal to the sorrow for her depar-
ture from the loved ones here.
	Clara Decker Young departed this life about
four o'clock in the afternoon of January 5th, 1889.
Her death was quiet and undisturbed by any of
those dreadful paroxysms of pain that are so
shocking and terrible to those who are near and
dear, and can never after be effaced from the
memory. She fell asleep, as it were, and so
passed almost unconsciously away. Her illness
did not seem dangerous until the last two days
before her demise, and indeed it was not thought
necessary to send for her daughter who was
absent from home, until that time. But the crisis
was very near, and after receiving the dispatch
that told her of her mother's illness, she hastened
with all possible speed from Portland, whither she
had gone, but it was too late, the news of her
mother's death reached her upon her journey
homeward, but with the courage that often comes
with the deepest grief, she bore up wonderfully,
though the shock must have been very heavy, for
she had left her in her usual health, and with
every expectation of their meeting again in a very
short time.
	Mrs. Young was the daughter of Isaac and
Harriet Page Decker, and was born July 22nd,
1828, in Freedom, Cataraugas County, New York.
Her father's family moved to Ohio, Portage Co.,
in 1833, and in 1834 became members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Bro.
and Sister Decker with their family gathered with
the Saints in Kirtland in 1837, and have ever since
remained with the body of the Church. Sister
Clara accompanied the family of Joseph Smith
the Prophet to Missouri in 1838, and was among
those who were compelled to leave that state on 
account of their religious faith. In 1841 she
came to Nauvoo, having previously lived in Win-
chester and in Warsaw in the State of Illinois,
after leaving Missouri, In the month of May,
1843, she was married to Brigham Young, and

[Column 2]

with him was an exile from Nauvoo, coming out in
the dead of winter to travel an unknown country,
and to share the trials and vicissitudes of a pil-
grimage to the wilderness. When Brigham
Young at the head of that famous pioneer com-
pany set out to find an abiding place for the peo-
ple who were exiles from home, Sister Clara
accompanied him, and was one of the first to tread
the soil of this mountain vale. When President
Young, after a brief stay here, had to return to
Winter Quarters, Mrs. Young must have had a
sore experience, but she bore that trial as she
did all others that she was called to pass through,
with the dignity of true womanhood, and never
faltered or wavered in her faith, or adherence to
the principles of the Gospel she had embraced
when so young in years.
	Sister Young has borne five children, two sons
and three daughters. One of the greatest sorrows
of her life was the death of her boys. She was
almost inconsolable for a time, but her grief was
not without an abiding hope of receiving them
again, where there would be no more death and
all tears be wiped away. She left three daughters,
and one who mourns her as sincerely as her own,
who shared her love and tenderness equally with
her very own. Five grandchildren are also left to
mourn her loving care and kindness, for she was
as tender and thoughtful of them as she had been
of her own little flock.
	The funeral services were held at her home on
Monday, January 7, at 12 m., President Seymour
B. Young presiding. The house was filled with
relatives and friends, who came to pay their last
tribute of respect and love, and many who could
not gain admittance manifested their appreciation
by remaining outside and around the gateways
during the entire service. The services com-
menced with the hymn, "Nearer, my God, to
Thee," sung by the quartette, Mrs. Edith Knowl-
ton, Mrs. Vilate Young, George D. Pyper and
J. D. Spencer. Prayer was offered by President
D. H. Wells, after which the hymn, "Unveil thy
bosom, faithful tomb" wes rendered by the singers.
Bishop O. F. Whitney delivered a very feeling
and eloquent address; he was followed by Elder
S. B. Young, who spoke in terms of praise and 
endearment of "Aunt Clara," and President D. H.
Wells spoke for a few minutes in a similar strain,
appreciative of the excellent traits of the de-
ceased. The quartette rendered in a tender man-
ner the beautiful hymn, "Come to me," and the
benediction was pronounced by Elder Robert
Patrick.
	The friends present were permitted to take a 
last look at Sister Young, and the casket was
carried from the house by the sons of President
Young and immediate relatives of the deceased.
There were many floral offerings, beautiful and
fragrant, and it was a tender and graceful expres-
sion of love to her children and family, but Sister
Young needed not these to beautify her remains,
for her memory is imperishable, and her good
name sweeter than the fairest blossom with which
her grave was strewn. May the living follow her
noble example, and when death shall come to
them may it be as peaceful and as grand as was
hers.
	A long line of carriages followed her earthly re-
mains to the cemetery, and after the coffin was
deposited in the vault, "Rest on the hillside" was
sung, and the dedicatory prayer was offered by
Elder Seymour B. Young. The grave was
covered and the funeral cortege wended its weary
way backward to the city leaving her in silence in
"the city of the dead."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column One]

		    EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE have received for publication minutes of
quarterly conferences of the Relief Society from
Tooele, St. Joseph, Bear Lake, San Juan and

[Column Two]

Bannock Stakes, which will appear hereafter in
the order of the dates.
	The Secretaries of the Relief Society in this
Stake of Zion are hereby particularly requested
to prepare correct semi-annual reports, and for-
ward them not later than the 25th of February,
to the Stake Secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard,
No. 60, Fourth South St., Salt Lake City, in order
that a full and complete report may be made in
time for the Stake Conference. By order of Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne, President Relief Society,
Salt Lake Stake.
	The Secretary of the Central Board of the
Primary Associations is desirous of obtaining a
full report from each Stake of Zion for the com-
plete report to be prepared in time for the April
Conference, and this semi-annual report should
be ready ten days before, or about the 25th of
March. Consequently the reports from all points
ought to be in the hands of the Secretary as
early as the 10th of March at the latest, which
would give her then only two weeks time to pre-
pare them. It is a very important thing, and the
Presidents of Primary Associations in the several
Stakes of Zion, should see that this matter is
properly attended to, both as to correct figures
and statements and date of sending. Forward
the Stake reports to Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton,
No. 137 Third Street, Salt Lake City.
	The Women of Utah throughout the Territory
should read the minutes, etc., of the Woman
Suffrage meeting, held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, recently, and prepare for local organization
in each county at an early date. The National
Enrollment, too, should be continued,and effective
work done, in making preparations for statehood
and the suffrage. Women cannot be too well
informed upon political and governmental matters,
as the laws of the land are made and enforced as
as much in their behalf as that of the male popu-
lation of the country. Sixty yards of the National
Enrollment has already been sent to head-
quarters; the papers contained the names of
8,393 men and women. Mrs. Emily S. Richards,
delegate from Utah to the Convention of the N.
W. S. A. at Washington, was the bearer of these
papers.	
	The Christmas number of Zion's Home
Monthly is full of good reading matter. A cut as
Frontispiece portrays a winter scene. “The
Christmas Angels,” by Silverpen, is a prettily told
story. There are several original poems, one by
Lula, “I Want to be Close to You,” is a perfect
gem; “Beside the Garden Gate,” Sian, is sug-
gestive to young lovers, and “A Love Song” is in
fact what its title indicates; “The Growth of
Zion,” by Sian, differs in style from the other
poems in the number, but is expressive of its sub-
ject, and of “the gathering,” as predicted by the
prophets and fully embodies the quotation used,
“Give us room that that we may dwell;” “A Bir-
mingham Christmas Carol” and “Christmas Bells,”
are appropriate for the time of year, and call up
pleasant associations; “Mamma” is very tender
and sentimental; “What Does it Matter” is quite
a meritorious production, and the little recitative
poem, “No,” would be a good selection for the
Primary children; “Less Than Cost” is a select-
tion from the writings of Mrs. M. A. Kidder, and
contains sound advice. The great variety of
prose articles, original and selected, cannot fail to
please those who are fond of good reading. “An
Explanation” in the editorial column, defines the
position taken by the editor, and gives the reader
an idea of his motives and expectations. It is
true that we, as a people, should seek to promote
a desire for home literature of the very best
quality. There is a wide field opening for it, and
there is plenty of material for themes, in fact the
unexplored storehouse of home literature is inex-
haustible.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY FESTIVAL.
	The Fifteenth Ward branch of Relief Society
gave a festival in honor of the widows and the
aged of the ward, in the ward hall, Jan. 8, 1889.
Sisters Binder, Dunkenson and Rudy, as super-
vising committee, were efficient in making the oc-
casion enjoyable. The Bishopric of the ward
honored the occasion with their aid and their
presence, and we were happified with the presence,
by invitation, of a few veteran sisters, Society
workers, from other wards. Some of Zion’s
sweetest singers graced the occasion, and en-
chanting music helped to banish care to the land
of forgetfulness. Bro. Elias Morris, ex-member
of the Bishopric, offered the opening prayer.
	Prest. S. M. Kimball said, “This gathering is
designed as a sociable;" she hoped a spirit o
sociability would prevail, and that we might have
a very enjoyable afternoon. A feast was prepared
for the body, after which she hoped we would
feast the soul.
	Seventy-nine surrounded the tables, who were
served by ready and willing waitresses. After
dinner came a season of social interchange of
thought, then music, interspersed with speeches,
wherein some interesting reminiscences were
made prominent. 
	Prest A. M. Cannon being present, related
some of his early remembrances. The hearts of
those convened seemed warmed and strengthened
to meet the vicissitudes and continue the journey
of life.
	The sisters regret that their accomodations were
not sufficient to reach more of the loved and re-
membered ones. We look forward, and with the
spirit’s eye see a time when, with unlimited ac-
comodations, we will enjoy a grand reunion amid
scenes of bliss unspeakable.
						   MINNIE GREY, Sec.


[column 1]
	   THE CHARACTER OF PORTIA.

     The tragedy of Julius Caesar is a true picture
of the tyranny, and ambition and jealousy, ex-
isting in the Roman Senate, as well as of the
oppression and rebellion found in the lower
classes of Rome.
     Conspiracy, treachery, murder, suicide, war
—the results of certain political relations, are
violently shown up.
     Naturally, in a play of this kind, women
would not appear as leading characters.  They
would be introduced as Sweet Portia was, just
for a moment, as it were, to take our minds
from conspiracy, daggers and blood, and let
them feel the more God-like influence of
chastity, love and constancy.
     She is there to soften and tone down the
harsh and angular lines of the picture; to
radiate the light of her innate loveliness even
to the dark and unsightly; to leave the story
of a life that all may with profit study.
     Portia was a typical Roman lady in the age
of Julius Caesar, and is a characteristic woman
for all time.
     In Plutarch's lives we read her noble history.
Although one of Shakespeare’s characters, she
is not created in his imagination; he has com-
prehended her and behold Portia is born again
in the play Julius Caesar!
     Portia was the daughter of a most honored
Roman, Cato; as she grew from childhood into
womanhood she became an ideal, and no wonder
is it, that the noble Brutus sought and gained
her for his wife.
     Portia seems but a milder and gentler copy
of her husband, her life became nothing, apart
from him.  He was "The ocean to the river of
her thoughts."
     When Brutus became involved in the con-
spiracy against the life of Caesar, he knew that
all the most valiant and brave men of Rome
ventured with him their lives and honor in the

[column 2]
enterprise, so he endeavored to hide from his 
countenance and actions everything that might
show a disturbed state of mind; with the public
he was successful, but his wife soon discovered
that something troubled him.
     Womanlike, Portia was anxious to know of
this thing, that she might show her love and
faithfulness by sharing his pain and grief, as
well as pleasures; she, therefore, asked,  but
was treated unkindly, and dismissed.  Afraid
to question further, she went away, "hoping it
but an affect of humor that sometime hath its
hour with every man."
     The Ides of March at length came, and yet
not day, Portia has not slept.  Sick at heart,
she discerned some six or seven men, their faces
masked even from the night, conversing in the
garden with her lord.  What does this mean?
Surely some great danger threatens Brutus.
Unhappy wife; until now she had been nour-
ished in the love and confidence her position
deserved.
     Portia determines to furnish some proof that
grief nor pain can overcome her, so she seizes
a knife and courageously plunges it into her
thigh, then she watched the grey light of dawn
begin to appear, heard the clock strike three,
saw the conspirators depart, then hastened into
the garden.
     “Brutus, my lord,”—that voice pierced his
soul—in his mind he was assassinating Caesar,
he turns to chide his wife for coming into the
“Rheumy air,” but Portia is not to be put off.
Unlike Cordelia, she can “heave her heart into
her mouth,” and with sainted eloquence now
pleads her right to share this secret; recalls 
with gentleness his late unkind manner; Upon
her knees and by her once commended beauty,
by all his vows of love and that great vow
which did make them one, she pleads.
     Tells him she should not need to kneel if he
were gentle Brutus, asks if she is to know no
secrets that appertain to him—if she is himself
but in limitation she is not his wife.  Brutus
says, "You are my true and honorable wife."
There is a world of loveliness in her answer:

    "If this were true, then should I know this secret.
	I grant, I am a woman, but withal,
    A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife;
	I grant, I am a woman, but withal,
    A woman well reputed, Cato's daughter,
	Think you I am no stronger than my sex,
    Being so fathered and so husbanded?
	Tell me your counsels, I will not disclose 'em;
    I have made strong proof of my constancy,
	Giving myself a voluntary wound
    Here in the thigh; can bear that with patience,
	And not my husband's secrets."

     Brutus exclaims: "O ye Gods!  Render me
worthy of this noble wife."
     Then he gently sends her away, promising
that she shall partake the secret of his heart.
     When Portia knows all the plans of the 
conspirators, she is almost distracted.  Brutus
went to the Senate house and the gentle wife
was left to wait in horrible suspense until news
 of the enterprise could come.  Her woman's
strength is scarcely great enough to keep the 
secret and she fears that by some word or
action she will disclose it; she imagines that
noise proceeds from the capitol, and sends
Lucius to Brutus and bids him say "that she is
merry."  Finally the suspense is so great that
she rushes to the Senate house herself, arriving 
just in time to hear the noise and uproar after
the assassination.  Portia swoons and is carried 
home dying, her attendants think, and report
to Brutus. 
     But Brutus even made his personal feelings
subject to Rome and liberty; so Portia was left
alone with her weak woman's heart, which had 
been shattered by the shocks of the day's 
events. 
     From this swoon Portia revives and lives to 
part with Brutus previous to his departure for

[column 3]
battle; she makes no show of grief in his pres-
ence, but once out of his sight she bursts into
passionate tears.
     No doubt the assassination of Caesar weighed
heavily on her mind, and assisted in rendering
her frantic.  But the greatest cause of suspense
and grief that she felt was in the absence of
her husband on the field of battle, and upon
learning that the opposing forces of Octavius
and Mark Antony were making themselves so
strong; she lost her reason entirely and her
attendants being absent, she swallowed fire,
and thus put an end to her unhappy existence.
				    ALICE E. MERRILL.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS. 

			BOX ELDER STAKE. 
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake convened in the
tabernacle at Brigham City, on the 11th of 
December, at 10 o'clock a.m.  Singing, "Sweet
is the work, my God, my King." Prayer by 
Coun. Susannah P. Booth. Singing, "O, say, 
what is truth?" Minutes read and accepted. 
	Prest. Harriet Snow made some opening re-
marks; said, "I feel, myself, that the Relief So-
ciety is a very important organization; there are 
many duties to perform; we should improve and
strive to fulfill all our labors, that we may be 
a blessing in Zion; in doing good, in exercising
our minds and intellects, we will be more capa-
ble of accomplishing good." Prayed that we 
might be all blest this day in coming together. 
	Prest. Harriet Hunsaker: "I know the Lord
is with us; we feel a desire to be one in the 
kingdom of God. I know the Lord is able to 
bless us in bearing our trials."
	Prest. Meecham: "I am thankful this morn-
ing that I have been counted worthy to be one
among the Latter-day Saints."
	Prest. Harper: "I know this is the work of 
God; we must try to live our religion."
	Prest. Watkins, Fourth Ward: "We should
pray for each other, particularly so in sickness
or trouble; we should rejoice for the blessing of 
health."
	Coun. Susannah P. Booth: "In performing
our duties we must exert ourselves. It builds
me up to meet with my sisters. We should
find some time to read good books and the his-
tory of this Church. We ought to appreciate
and attend these conferences, while we enjoy
this privilege. I have no other desire than to 
be faithful by the help of the Lord."
	Prest Mary Jensen: "In looking around we 
see that no one can stand still in the kingdom 
of God; we should be very careful what we say
about one another."
	Coun. Olivia Widerborg: "God has given us
the greatest of all gifts, the light of the Gos-
pel. All clouds have a silver lining. We 
must restrain our young people in their pleasure
seeking, provide proper amusement for them. 
Let us watch our little ones; fearful crimes, 
secret sins are creeping in among our child-
ren."
	Adjourned till 2 o'clock. Singing. Bene-
diction by Prest. Harriet Hunsaker. 
	Afternoon session: Singing, "God moves
in a mysterious way." Prayer by Bishop
Nichols. Singing, "Should you feel inclined
to censure."
	Prest. Mary E. Snow: "We have a faithful
band of sisters in our ward." Explained how 
they had been blest in their labors in doing
good. 
	Emilia D. Madsen: "Unless the Lord will
give me a few words to say, I shall not be able 
to say anything that will comfort or benefit
anyone." Referred to our great responsibili-
ties and the blessings we enjoy, the comfort we
receive from associating together, to improve
every opportunity for good. "These are our
true talents; do unto others as we would like


[Column 1]

to be done by; seek for the spirit of the Lord,
that it may dwell in our hearts at all times, for
without it we will stumble and be unable to
fulfill our duties."
	Sister Jensen, from Bear River City, reported
that branch, the Prest. not being able to attend.
	Sister Harding: "Sometimes I ask the ques-
tion, do I realize the great blessings I enjoy?"
Referred to the apostacy of her mother; thought
it had been a stimulant to her. "Our enemies
cannot harm us, but we ourselves may go so
low that we cannot redeem ourselves."
	Sister Cook: "I know this is the kingdom
of God; our lives are made up of little deeds;
I believe if we do that which is not pleasing
in the sight of the Lord, it will be like a blot
on a blank piece of paper; let us strive to
realize and live up to our privileges."
	Sister Susannah Facer: "I think it is the
greatest blessing that we have trials, because it
brings out all that is bright in us, makes us
more useful, and prepares us for the reward of
the faithful. I have learned a great deal
through this persecution; it wakes us up to be
more diligent; every morning we should ask
our Heavenly Father to keep us in that narrow
path; we will not do a great deal wrong but
that small voice will whisper and tell us
whether our thoughts or actions are wicked. I
pray I may always feel the kingdom of God is
foremost in my mind."
	Coun. C. Kelley: "I have enjoyed this con-
ference very much. It may seem to you that
you do not accomplish a great deal, but if all
the good accomplished by the Relief Society
through the world was reported, it would show
a great work; but you have other duties, that
you may understand your position in connec-
tion with the priesthood. 'The man is not
without the woman nor the woman without the
man, in the Lord.' Show me a sister who
takes the counsel of prayer, and you will not
see many of her sons go astray; there is a love
in a mother's heart that would shield a boy
under all circumstances, but sometimes it is
misused." Spoke of the miseries and wicked-
ness in London; read some startling statistics
of the visitors to saloons in that city. "Thank
God we have not this in Zion, but we have
those in our midst who work for this end."
	Prest. Harriet Snow: "We should all strive
to attend these meetings for the good and the
growth of the wisdom and power of the sisters
in this Stake. Exercise meekness and love
one to another; exercise the principle of peace
and confidence; exercise faith and be prayerful;
beware of fault-finding, it leads downward.
May the Lord bless you, enlighten your minds,
quicken your understanding."
	Singing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet." Benediction by Coun. Olivia Wider-
borg. Adjourned for three months.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Salt Lake
Stake was held in the Assembly Rooms, in the
Fourteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, Dec. 20th,
1888, commencing at 10 a.m. On the plat-
form were Prest. Zina D. H. Young and her
Counselors, Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba
W. Smith; also the Secretary, Sarah M. Kim-
ball. Prest. of Salt Lake Stake, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne, presided.
	Conference opened with singing, "O, Jesus,
the giver," etc. Prayer by the Secretary,
Elizabeth Howard. Singing, "We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet." The Secretary
read the minutes of the previous conference,
which were accepted, and the roll was called;
21 presidents and 3 counselors reported; each
one spoke of the Relief Society of her respec-
tive ward as being in good condition, and of
the good works being performed by the sisters.
	During the time of the reports being given
Prest. Zina D. H. Young addressed the confer-

[Column 2]

ence. Mrs. Young said she was pleased with
the reports, but thought this a time when our
meetings should be numerously attended. and
we should meet often to gain strength by con-
stant prayer, and calling upon God day and
night in supplication and draw near unto the
Lord; we need more faith to-day than ever; let
us neglect no duty; our tithes, our offerings,
and every duty should be diligently performed,
and she also made other excellent remarks.
	At the close of the morning session Prest.
M. I. Horne made some remarks, desiring
all who were present to come in the afternoon,
as there were some instructions to be given to
the Relief Society. Singing, "Lord, dismiss
us with Thy blessing." Benediction by Mrs.
B. W. Smith.
	Afternoon session: Conference continued.
Singing, "O, say, what is truth?" Prayer was
offered by M. W. Wilcox. Singing, "O, my
Father, Thou that dwellest." Reports were
then given by 5 presidents and one counselor,
after which Prest. Horne addressed the meet-
ing. She was glad to see so many present at
holiday time, when she knew there was so
much going on; urged the sisters to improve-
ment, and to examine their own hearts, and
see whether they had made much spiritual
progress during the past year, as it was now
verging on to the new year 1889; "let us deter-
mine to do better in the year to come; we want
to have our meetings conducted on parliamen-
tary rules; Prest. Jos. Smith predicted many
great things concerning the Relief Society;
women have always held responsible positions
when the priesthood was on the earth. We
should preside with dignity, and look to the
small items that pertain to our improving our-
selves and becoming Elect women. We have
been advised to gather and store up wheat by
the President of the Church, and to take care
of it for the time of famine, which is surely
coming. Doing our duty is the path of safety;
let us be patient and humble and ask our
Heavenly Father for grace sufficient for our
day, and we shall be blessed of Him; and let
us also seek Him for wisdom, that we may be
faithful unto the end."
	A letter from President Woodruff concern-
ing the wheat was then read.
	Prest. Z. D. H. Young spoke a short time;
said that all the instructions she had received
had come from God, our Father, through His
servants to the people; "and we know our duty,
and if we perform it we need have no fear, we
need not doubt. The kingdom will move on,
let us serve God and keep the still small voice
within us, get the Spirit of God and keep it;
let us have the bread of life, that we may have
a portion to distribute to some who have it not.
Can we not inspire our sons and our daughters
to serve God and keep His commandments, so
that none of them may marry outside of the
Church?" The revelation to Emma Smith
was then read, after which Sister Zina made
further remarks relating to the subjects men-
tioned.
	Coun. Jane S. Richards said, "When we
take time to examine ourselves we find many
little things to improve upon; our sisters who
stay at home lose by so doing; in their anxiety
to have everything nice for the little ones at
home, they forget this duty; still I do wish they
would come to meeting, that they might enjoy
the Spirit of the Lord. If there is sickness or
death in the family, that is a good excuse to
stay at home, and I pray for all such; let us
try, my sisters, to get near to God, that we
may have pleasure in doing good. I always
take pleasure in visiting the sick; the poor in
spirit are to be pitied; let us visit them and try
to give them strength. Though this is a day
of trial we enjoy the goodness of the Lord."
	Sister Helen Mar Whitney: "We have
more reason to be thankful to God than any
people on the earth; we have not much of this

[Column 3]

world's goods, but we should be grateful that
we are here, and not among those who are pro-
moting dissension and war. We are enjoying
comparative peace; let us read the words of the
Prophet, and increase our interest in the youth
of Zion; it is the wayward we should pray for;
let us be charitable and merciful one to another.
We are nearing the day of famine, and let us
be prepared for it."
	Coun. Bathsheba W. Smith wished the sis-
ters all "A Merry Christmas and A Happy
New Year," after which Mrs. E. B. Wells
spoke a short time on the subject of woman
suffrage, and thought it necessary to have an
organization for Utah, in order to use our in-
fluence with the women of the nation to ob-
tain suffrage for all. "The National Enroll-
ment papers were circulated for signatures, as
one of the helps to obtain it; there would soon
be an organization formed, and a meeting
would be called for the purpose." She hoped
it would be a large and influential gathering,
and that good would be the result.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "When shall we all meet again."
Benediction bp Bro. Barnes.
		ELIZABETH HOWARD,
			Secretary S. L. Stake. 
	The Primary Conference of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion was held Dec. 22nd, 1888, in the
Assembly Hall, in this city, Mrs. Ellen C.
Clawson presiding. Opened with singing,
"Gladly Meeting." Prayer by Prest. Louie
Felt. Singing, "Hope of Israel." Roll called.
Minutes of last conference were read and ac-
cepted. Recitation, a boy from the 10th
Ward; Miss Folsom, 14th Ward, sang, "Open
the Gate.
	Prest. Louie Felt made a few remarks; told
of her visit to the Temple, and wished all "A
Merry Christmas and A Happy New Year."
	A little girl from the 10th Ward recited,
"No flowers on Papa's Grave;" Duet, by two
girls from 15th Ward. Remarks by Coun.
Lillie Freeze; she advised reading from the New
Testament. A little girl from the 17th Ward
recited, "Christmas Eve;" Song, by three girls
of Sugar House Ward, "Happy Children;"
Song, by the little ones, "The children are
praying for me;" Coun. L. A. Wells made in-
teresting remarks; Recitation, a little girl of
the 11th Ward, also by Jos. Williams of the
21st Ward.
	Coun. C. C. Cobb addressed the children in
a very pleasing style; prayed that all would
have a good Christmas and a Happy New
Year.
	Essay on Truth, by Annie Hagman of the
19th Ward; Recitation, by a boy of the 7th
Ward; a little girl of the 17th Ward recited,
and Prest. Clawson made some closing remarks;
expressed her pleasure with the meeting, and
urged the children to remember all those who
were sick in their prayers. Prayed that the
Lord would bless all the children and help
them to do right.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Marching Homeward." Benediction
by Bro. Evan Stephens.
		BESSIE DEAN,
	Stake Secretary P. A.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENT.
Editor Exponent:
    Dear Sister:—As we seldom see anything
in the columns of your paper from our quiet
little town, we thought, perhaps, a few lines
from our Primary Association would be inter-
esting to others who, like us, are laboring for
the benefit of the little-folks.
    On the afternoon of Christmas day our As-
sociation at Virgin City gave an entertainment
in the meeting house which consisted of songs,
dialogues, recitations, essays, speeches, music


from Harmonica Band, etc.  The children all
took their parts splendidly, and did credit to
themselves by singing and speaking so well. It
would be unjust to mention any names, as all
did so well.
	After the exercises were through with, good
old Santa Claus made his appearance, took
down the curtain from a well loaded Christmas
tree, and with his aids distributed presents to
the children; there were none forgotten; the
orphans, also our missionaries’ little ones were
kindly remembered, and all were made glad
and happy.  The children were then treated
to candy, cakes and nuts, after which Bishop
L. W. Beebe made closing remarks; expressed
himself as much pleased with the entertain-
ment, and asked the blessing of God upon all
present.
	All the ward turned out, the house was
crowded, and all felt well paid.  The day will
long be remembered by our little folks.  We
remain, as ever,
			Your sisters,
		MINERVA PRATT, President
		ELEANOR SPENDLOVE,
		MARY A. BEEBE, Counselors.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY BOYS.

	Christmas morning—bright and beautiful—
while I sat quietly thinking of the many
children that were made glad by kind old
Santa Claus, and wondering if the teachers of
the youth of Zion were doing much good—all
at once I heard sweet music and singing.  Open-
ing the door I saw five little boys, aged from
six to eight, with drums and banjo, and such
sunny faces, and they saluted me with, “A
Merry Christmas to you.” I felt and said,
“God bless all the dear children!” To me it
was like bread cast upon the waters, found on
a Christmas morning.  I want you to know,
Mrs. Editor, that these boys belong to the
Sixth Ward Primary of Logan, and their
names are, three little John Benches, Charley
Thorp and Willard Jones.
	How sweet it is to be remembered by the
boys of the Primary ! May they live long to
do good, and obey their parents and be kind to
the poor and the aged; and I want to express
A Happy New Year to all the Primary child-
ren, and also to the old and young, through
the medium of the EXPONENT.
	Our Primary is in a healthy condition, and
well attended by officers and children, and I
wish A Happy New Year to the EXPONENT.
						EMMA PIKE.


PROPOSED AMENDMENT OF BASIS
	OF REPRESENTATION FOR
		N. W. S. A., 1889.

TO CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEE:
	Each vice-President of the National W. S.
A., shall (after consultation with, and with the
approval of the Executive Committee for State
or Territory), appoint delegates to the annual
Washington Convention from such members
of the N. W. S. A., as reside in her State or
Territory.
	Each State or Territory shall be entitled to
one delegate.
	Any State (or Territorial) Suffrage Associa-
tion which is auxiliary to the N. W. S. A.,
shall send two delegates by virtue of such
auxiliaryship, and shall appoint them at its
annual convention.
	Any State (or Territorial) Suffrage Associa-
tion may become auxiliary to the N. W. S. A., 
by the payment of twenty-five per cent of its
annual membership-fees.  Any individual may
become a member of the N. W. S. A., by pay-


ing an annual fee of one dollar into the Trea-
sury.
     Each State (or Territory) may send one
delegate for every twenty-five dollars, or frac-
tion thereof, paid into the National Treasury.
     All officers of the N. W. S. A. shall be ex-
officio delegates at large with the power to
vote. Members who are neither officers nor
duly accredited delegates, may be present at
business meetings, but (with the exception of
members from isolated States or territories
where there is no Suffrage society) such mem-
bers shall speak and vote only by the unani-
mous consent of the delegation.
			LOUISA SOUTHWORTH.

		  OFFICIAL NOTICE. 
To the Officers Of the National Wo-
        man Suffrage Association:

     The Secretary of the N. W. S. A. some
months since addressed a personal letter to each
officer of the Association, requesting her views
as to the most effective methods of work during
the ensuing year. This was done that from
the collective wisdom so garnered, the execu-
tive committee could formulate the best plans
for advancing our reforms.
     It was asked that replies should be in the
hands of the secretary by January 10, 1889, in
order to give time for their digest and due
arrangement; it is hoped this has already been
done. But should any official thus far have
failed to reply she is begged for an immediate
response—letters to be sent to Mrs. Rachel
Foster-Avery, Riggs House, Washington D.
C. All vice-presidents are requested to make
short succinct reports (replies to be sent as
above) of the work done in their respective
states and territories during the past year.
     It is through such general interest shown at
the time of our annual Washington conven-
tion, that our reform progresses. It is hoped
that a large number of delegates elected upon
the new Basis of Representation will be pres-
ent.
      Let this session of the Fiftieth Congress be
also made memorable through the large num-
ber of individual petitions for the removal of
political disabilities, as recommended in the
present year. Such petitions are in the highest
degree educational both to Congress and the
country, going through the associated press to
all parts of the United States.
				MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE,
				Chairman Ex. Com.

[column 2]
Training School for Nurses
     On February 4th, 1889, I will open a Training
School for Nurses; the object being to make edu-
cated nurses of women and girls, and prepare them
for competent work either in hospital or private
practice, so that skilled service can be furnished
and good pay demanded. The instruction will be
similar to that of the Boston Training School, and
will occupy a period of three months. Those not
prepared to enter at the beginning of the course,
may do so later, and preceding lectures will be
made up to them. Special arrangements can also
be made for obstetrical teaching.
	TUITION,	-	-	-	$25.00.
     For further Information, address,
				DR. M. P. HUGHES,
     P. O. Box 575,		      Salt Lake City, Utah.
     Or for personal interview, at office, at 2 p.m., at 
Cor. of South Temple and First East Sts.
Martha P. Hughes, M.D.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 	
Cash, House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in	
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS 
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to. 
Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Eleven women are studying in the Univer-
sity of Lund, in Sweden.
	
	There are about 70,000 lace-makers in Nor-
mandy, and in all France there are nearly
200,000 women engaged in this industry.

	There are more than 2,700,000 women in
Belgium engaged in industrial pursuits, mostly
very poorly paid.  But when one woman asks
to be a lawyer—a profession in which ability
commands honor and profit—her application is
is refused by the court, and she is told that a
woman’s sphere is to marry, not to labor for
her own support.

	The Women’s Medical College of Philadel-
phia is in its thirty-ninth year, and is the
largest women’s medical college in the world.
It matriculates this year 160 students, among
whom are one each from Japan, China and
Australia, the others being from nearly every
State in the Union.  Its course consists of
three years, with an additional year’s study
which is optional with the students, but which


is recommended by the institution.  An effort
is being made to endow a Chair of “Preventive
Medicine.”	
	Mrs. Lide Meriwether, president of the Ten-
nessee W. C. T. U., in her annual address
before the State Convention of Knoxville,
urged the importance of the problem of work-
ing-girls’ wages in connection with the work of
social purity.  She tells of a letter written by
a young working-girl of Auburn, Mass., to
her mother, not complainingly, but as a simple
matter of fact, saying, “1 am doing stockings,
and get fourteen cents a dozen.  It takes me
two good days to do one dozen, but I am going
to try to do more next week.” This is no ex-
ceptional incident, but one of many.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 17.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY1, 1889.		No. 17.﻿


[For the Exponent.]
	A MOTHERS LOVE AND HOPE.

	Life is a dream, you say?
		A dream both sad and sweet!
	A dream of mem'ry to the old and grey,
		Of hope to the young and fleet.
	
	I know, I know to-day
		I kiss these baby lips;
	To-morrow I moan and sigh and pray
		For my bright love's sad eclipse.

	Oh, dimpled baby hands,
		And pure, heavenly eyes;
	And feet so sweet and dear, through many lands
		Ye will walk in glad surprise.
	
	So glad, so bright the world	
		Will seem to your early gaze;
	Will ye bear the siren's flag unfurled
		Through your dreamy, youthful days?

	And must I give thee up,
		My love-kissed, sunny lamb?
	Must my loved one taste earth's sin-stained cup,
		To blight this heav'nly calm?

	Not that I think he will fall
		From the pride of man's estate,
	But the sorrow and care that come to all
		Will darken his life—'tis fate.

	All things may tempt my boy,
		Earth's tinsel dazzles so,
	And the peaceful hope of a heav'nly joy 
		My darling might soon forgo.

	But no ! though life be dreams
		Of memory, dreams of hope,
	Though filled with foolish, foolish schemes,
		And bound in a narrow scope,

	Though to-day be all we own,
		To-morrow a dream unfilled,
	And yesterday glide to the Past alone,
		Only marred by the life we willed.

	Though the morrow we know not of
		May bring sorrow and sad unrest,
	Let us trust that the Father who sees from above
		Will lead baby as He knows best.
	
	And the eyes so bright to-day
		Shall with wisdom's light be filled,
	To safely guide through the narrow way
		Till all earth-born strife be stilled.

	And the change that will surely come
		O'er my innocent, priceless love,
	Will at last, when he enters a brighter home
		Beam in peerless light above.

	And there we all shall know
		That this life was not a dream,
	That its passing fleetness was not a show,
		And its throbbing not a gleam,

	But a solemn, solemn thing,
		And its love a light from heaven;
	And there of its glory they e'er may sing,
		Who have loved and been forgiven.

	And love shall not pine and sigh
		For a purity blemished and fled,
	But the innocent light of my baby's eye
		Will revive in that world ahead!
								RUBY LAMONT. 
Beaver, Utah.


[column 1]
THE WOMAN'S MOVEMENT.
	Since the days of Eve her daughters have
lived under the curse of social inferiority to
her brother man.  In this generation the irk-
someness of this condition has been displayed
by the woman's movement for equal rights,
[column 2]
This movement has met with slurs and opposi-
tion at every step, just as every truth has
always been opposed by its adversary; but not-
withstanding opposition and misrepresentation
and denouncement, even by women themselves,
it has made a very marked progress within the
last fifty years.  This is well.  God, who made
us all, and who is no respecter of persons, in-
tended that woman should in every way be equal
to man in dignity; but He also knew the station
in which she would be placed while on earth,
that her child-bearing and child-rearing sphere
would curtail other aspirations, which man
would have the opportunity to follow.  Of the
two He knew that the former would be of the
greater importance to the world, and therefore,
in the guise of a curse, bestowed upon her the
blessing to be subject to man, that she might
the better fulfill her mission, and that in this
mission she might receive the support and pro-
tection of him whom He made stronger for the
world's battles.
	It is true that labor and suffering have both
fallen to her lot since then, and while she has
not shirked her own heavy calling, she has
oftentimes assumed patiently the part allotted
to her husband as well.  This has proven her
own faithfulness, and if man may have often
failed in his part, and with an unsympathetic
heart laid his burden upon his patient, con-
scientious, suffering wife, let him render his
account unto Him who assigned unto each his
position!
	To me it seems like one of the latter day
signs, that women are becoming restless be-
neath their oppressed situation.  The world's
record will soon be finished, and when the mil-
lennium shall set in, and the curse be removed,
the sudden emancipation of women, without
forethought would have a startling and un-
pleasant effect.  It were better to awaken first
and struggle for what we believe to be right,
and then in the end to be crowned with suc-
cess by a just and righteous God.  I write with
confidence, for I firmly believe that our Hea-
venly Father loves His daughters just as well
as he loves His sons, and that He does not de-
sire the glorification of one at the sacrifice of
the happiness of the other.
	Women are respected in communities or na-
tions in proportion to the status of civilization
of those nations.  In savage society they are
held as little, if any, above the brutes.  In
Turkey they are not believed to possess immor-
tal souls; in more refined society their position
is comparatively higher, but how many men
even here will not sneer at any effort for the
higher education and standard of woman, and
look with more or less contempt (it may even
be unconscious), upon a patient, loving, plod-
ding, over-burdened wife!  Of course men
who know that this is true will hide themselves
behind a score of excuses, but the hard fact of
inconsiderate indifference, heedlessness and
conscious superiority (?) remain the same.  This
is almost a general fault, though one which in
our sermons, self-examining and resolutions
toward better living, is quite overlooked.
	I have said the station of woman accords in
communities with their culture and civilization. 
Is it not, then, possible that when we once
reach that high, perfect and glorious civiliza-
tion which we aspire to in that great future
which shall celestialize the good and pure, we
may there meet the thorough emancipation of
our sex, and find them elevated to their proper
[column 3]
place.  Ay, verily, nor will we accomplish
this before that time.
	In the meantime we must pray and struggle
to emancipate ourselves from vanity, envy, dis-
cord, narrow mindedness, and all that is con-
trary to true greatness, to the meekness and
humility of the Spirit of Christ, and all that
cometh not from God.  We must learn that
noble independence which shrinks not from
drawing the censure and contempt of others
upon itself, so long as it is in defense of princi-
ples which it honestly believes to be true.  We
shall find that in this lies the greater emancipa-
tion and better freedom, which will prepare
and make us worthy of equal condition with
honest and intelligent men.  If we are in
truth inferior to him in attainments of knowl-
edge, and our hearts are devoted to winning
the carnal eye of praise and flattery, instead of
learning the things that are necessary for gov-
ernment, how can we consistently claim an
equal political place by his side?  It were bet-
ter to study the sciences and general truths of
nature's God, than to devote our time and
souls to the following of fashion or the giddy,
fascinating, alluring, but hollow, dead sea
ashes of the world's tinsel.
	All hail, then, to the woman's movement!
May it spread over all the land, and its spirit
enter every heart that desires to see the triumph
of Right and Justice!
					    RUBY LAMONT.
Beaver, Utah.

		    EMINENT WOMEN.
	Distinguished women of the past are a study,
as well as men of mark.  Though they have
been fewer in number, and have had more
hindrances in the way of their progress, yet,
recorded in the annals of history, are the
names of some illustrious women, who deserve
to be held in honorable remembrance, for the
service they have done the world in education,
science, art and literature.  We recall their
names with a mingled degree of just pride and
pleasure, and we are gratified to remember
them as holding rank among the noble bene-
factors of the human race.  Some we cannot
help loving, though we find them very imper-
fect in character, and faulty in their lives.
Yet we must recollect their peculiar condition
and surroundings, the age in which they lived
with all its bigotry and prejudices, and make
due allowance for human weaknesses.  Often
we have a lingering tenderness for those of
whom we read; they appeal to our sympathies
and call out the emotions of our affectional
nature, and stimulate us through these, to
deeds of kindness, and noble exertions to be-
come worthy a similar place in the hearts of
our contemporaries.  Others only excite our
admiration; yet candor compels us to acknowl-
edge their power as a lever in the social struct-
ure; albeit they do not touch our hearts, or en-
list our affections.  We should not be forgetful
of those who have labored to better the condi-
tion of their fellow-beings, though they have
passed on to another stage of action.  Mankind
are reaping the benefits of their works and
their books, through the effect their lives and
sentiments have had upon education, laws,
governments and public opinion.  There is
much to be learned from the lives of individu-
als.  But we can only study those of a past
age, who have made themselves known to the


public. Many have died, who have been bet-
ter in their day and generation, and more ca-
pable perchance of noble deeds, yet had not
the moral courage and the stamina to come
forward and brave the ridicule and censure
the world heaps upon those who enter the arena
of public life.

"Full many a gem of purest ray serene,
	The dark unfathomed caves of ocean bear;
Full many a flower is born to blush unseen,
	And waste its sweetness on the desert air"

	Bitter taunts and withering sarcasms are
almost invariably aimed at women who step
aside from the common, beaten track of every-
day life. Opprobrious epithets, the severest
criticisms and actual persecutions have, in
many instances, been literally heaped upon the
envied possessors of genius or talent who have
launched forth unheralded into the world of
literature, or sought to maintain with strength
of character and firmness of purpose, their
original views and opinions in the face of op-
position. Jealousy and unprincipled ambition
for honor, or success, even at the expense of
others' downfall, sometimes points with
poisoned malice the winged arrows of hate
and scorn, which hurled at the innocent and
unsuspecting wound terribly in secret, though
the brave hearts quail not, nor betray any out-
ward sign of agony. He or she who can live
above these trials, or pass unscathed through
such ordeals, surely deserve this meed of praise,
for they are the heroes of a series of life's
battles, hard indeed to be endured and difficult
to run against the fearful odds of ignorance,
envy and superstition.

	"He that writes,
Or makes a feast, more certainly invites
His judges than his friends; there's not a guest
But will find something wanting, or ill-drest."

	In recalling to mind the subject of eminent
women of the past, and linking therewith some
names well known to the world, my mind
rested casually upon the two Montagues. I
believe they are sometimes confused in the 
mind, as they have both given to the world a
series of letters, and not remembered as two,
but one. Lady Mary Wortley Montague was
the first woman Montague known as a litera-
teur, and although she was not born a Monta-
gue, is known only by that name as a writer,
She was the daughter of Evelyn Pierrepont,
Luke of Kingston, and was born at Thoresby,
Nottinghamshire, in the year 1690, and is said
to have been a very "clever and beautiful
child." She received a liberal education, but
being eager for a more thorough knowledge,
she taught herself the elements of Latin, and
became well versed in the Greek and Latin
languages. She was of a sportive tempera-
ment and brilliant and lively imagination,
which is noticeable through her "famous cor-
respondence." She was an exquisite dancer,
and in one of her letters she says: "I taught
the Viennese some new country-dances, they
only knowing half a dozen, which they had
been practicing over and over again, during a
period of some fifty years."
	She considered it "as scanalous for a woman
not to know how to use her needle, as it was
for a man not to know how to use a sword."
She was quite distinguished for vivacity, wit,
love of anecdote and "large general energy."
She disliked sorrow, and maintained that sor-
row for the dead is teh vainest form of feeling.
Yet she carried through all her literary pro-
ductions a firm thread of sound common
sense.
	She was married at twenty-two to Edward
Wortley Montague, grandson of the first Earl
of Sandwich. It is said of her that she was
insensible to tenderness, her heart cold, lifeless
and umimpressionable. "She held romantic
sentimentalitv in comtempt." In one of her
letters addressed to her intended husband, she

[Column 2]

thus expresses herself: "I can esteem, I can be
a friend, but don't know whether I can love.
Expect all that is complacent and easy, but
never what is fond, in me." Her husband, it
is said was as destitute as herself of romantic
sentiment. He was a diplomatist, distinguished
himself in Parliament, and was the intimate
friend of Addison.
	Lady Montague accompanied her husband
in 1716 to the court of Constantinople, whither
he went as ambassador, and during her sojourn
there wrote an interesting description of that
wonderful city in letters to her friends. A
surreptitious edition of these letters was pub-
lished in 1763. They were so well received as
to pass through several issues and to be trans-
lated into many languages. A genuine edition
of these and her other works was published
under the authority of her son, the Marquis of
Bute, in 1803.
	There is a circumstance connected with her
life in Constantinople, which has caused her to
be remembered with gratitude by all classes of
people. She learned from the villagers of the
practice of inoculation for the small pox, and
performed the operation herself upon her son,
and by this means and through her influence
inoculation was introduced into the West of
Europe. After Lady Mary's return to Eng-
land, she resided at Twickenham, where she
"formed an intimacy with the celebrated poet,
Pope." Sometime after, the friendship was
broken off, and "the poet was ignoble enough
to write satires against her talents and reputa-
tion," which he afterwards denied.
	In 1739 she went to Venice, on account of
her failing health, where she lived twenty-two
years, then returning to England, died in the
following year, 1762. Her great-grandson,
Lord Wharncliffe, published a complete edition
of her writings in 1836, under the title of
"Letters and Works of Lady Mary Wortley
Montague."
	This celebrated lady is said to have been a
keen observer of human character, and her
literary productions are spoken of as well-
polished mirrors, wherein might be discerned
the social condition of England in the seven-
teenth and eighteenth centuries, respectively.
This lady was proud rather than vain, and
prided herself on her social and literary dis-
tinction. She was not what would be styled
"popular." It has been said that "it is doubt-
ful about her ever being loved and respected
for herself." She was at one time elected a
"toast" by the Kitcat Club, an association of
literary people, whose friendship she enjoyed,
and yet says one who has written of her, "It is
very problematical if she ever actually secured
what Aristotle styles a friend "for virtue's 
sake." Let us be lenient to Lady Mary's
faults, remembering the peculiarity of her time,
and the sensuality that marked the reign of
Charles II. Here is an extract from one of
her poems. It reveals a true picture of
woman's estimate at that period, even by one
of her own sex.

"While thirst of praise, and vain desire of fame,
In every age is every woman's aim;
With courtship pleased, of silly titles proud,
Fond of a train, and happy in a crowd."

		AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHY BUSY MEN WRITE THE BEST
			BOOKS. 

	If you want good work done in science, or
art, or literature, you must endow people, it is
said; with the means of giving their whole
time to it. There is a certain a priori plausi-
bility about the demand which often persuades
an unthinking mind of its truth. But as a
matter of fact it is opposed to the lessons of
experience, and even to the laws of human
nature. Indeed, the "Endowment of Re-

[column 2]
search” would, we verily believe, be the best
possible way to ensure the worst possible results,
both in quantity and quality: In quantity,
because the pressure of other occupations is of
itself a spur to intellectual activity—so much
so that it has come to be almost a proverb that
the busiest men have always the most time to
spare. And in quality, because removal from
the “rough-and-tumble” of the work-a-day
world distorts a man’s judgement and narrows
his vision—so much so that mankind at large
always feels some deserved contempt for the
“armchair” writer.	
	On the other hand, the history of literature
is full of examples which show the bracing
and the broadening effects of their other work
upon authors who have been busy men.  Aris-
totle and Plato did not clamor, like our modern
University dons, to be relieved of the “drudg-
ery” of teaching; but rather found, like so
many of the Great German Professors, their best
stimulus in their disciples Bacon(who, even
if he did not write Shakespeare, wrote quite
enough on his own account) was busier than
bustling Lord Halsbury. Cicero was a politi-
cal barrister. Grote was a London banker.
Mill, like Charles Lamb, was a clerk in the
East India House—a form of “slavery” in no
way consistent either with the depths of philos-
ophy or the sparkle of belles-lettres. The
Greek tragedians were proud no doubt of their
iambics, but even prouder of their general-
ship. Shakespeare was a stage manager, and
Goethe a Geheimrath. Even in the domain of
the fine arts, it may be doubted whether the
greatest masters have not been those who had
most else to do besides painting. Certain it is
that Leonardo thought far more of his skill as
a civil engineer than of his grace as a designer,
that “the painter Rubens amused himself as
Ambassador,” and that the Prince of gold-
smiths, Benvenuto Cellini, spent as much time
in fighting and traveling as in beating gold or
moulding clay.
	And to skip now to our own time, who is
the first of living English scientists ? Why,
Professor Huxley, who has also been one of
the busiest of men. Sir John Lubbock is
another man who has combined high general
culture with original scientific research; and
he is a politician with hobbies, and a financier
with ideas ! No better work has been done in
the domain of pure literature during this gen-
eration than that which Matthew Arnold did
in the intervals of his daily tasks and common
rounds as a school inspector. His namesake,
Sir Edwin Arnold, who finds time to go out
into the by-ways of foreign literature, is a
working journalist. Mr. William Morris,
though in his verse “the idle singer of an
empty day,” is in his life the busy spender of
full days indeed.
	The omission of the greater poets of the
day from the list is not so much an exception
to the rule as it looks. For the spontaneity,
which is the essence of great poetry, makes
the pressure of any other spur unnecessary.
So again Darwin, who was a man of independ-
ent means, is almost the exception that proves
the rule, for his devotion to scientific research
was altogether exceptional. And as for the
evil effects of a purely literary avocation, the
open “secret of Carlyle’s life,” is that be pined
for political employment.—Pall Mall Gazette


Miss Catharine T. Simonds, of Boston
has been a teacher for fifty consecutive years
all but two of them in the Franklin School.

	The Indian Princess, Winnemucca, who
attended Wellesley College, and has written
stories under the nom de plume of “Bright
Eyes," is now teaching an Indian school.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WAIFS OF THE TOWN.

I ponder by night and I ponder by day,
On the poor little waifs that throng life’s highway; 
Where did they come from, why mnst they roam,
Above, as below, oh, had they no home?

Out in the street with no home and no friend,
Poverty-stricken to life’s bitter end;
Still to “keep moving," like poor little “Joe,"
To hear still, “Move on, sir," and no where to go.

Begging a mite from whoever will give,
To keep them from starving, to help them to live;
Still to drag on in this pitiful way,
Night after night, day after day.

Through the slums and the alleys and holes of the town,
And the rivers' wet wharf's, where the fog’s coming down,
Pierce through the rags of the shivering frame,
Of this child of the street, with no home and no name.

God of the desolate, why is it so?  
Can any one tell me, does any one know?
Are they "born bad" as poor "Trotty Dick" said,
Is poverty sin, had "they better be dead?"

If not born bad how can they rise
From the filth that surrounds them up to the skies?
Was it not these that Christ died to save,
So helpless and lone on life's pitiless wave?

Was it not these He meant when He said,
"Of such is the kingdom"—"My lambs must be fed"—
Why don't He gather them back to the fold,
Ere the spark of divinity in them grows cold.

I dare not think on, for my spirit grows wild,
When I think how the purest are often defiled,
When the fault is not theirs, oh, how can it be,
That God and the angels bear such things to see.
										HOPE.


TRUTH. 

Thou brightest of all earthly gems.	
How much I think of thee;
Whether in mansions of the great,
In wide domain and vast estate:		
Or in the cottage of the poor,
In workman's shop or merchant’s store:
Upon the land or on the sea,
There is nothing ever outshines thee.

Intelligence is also bright, 
Unless it leaves thy side,
And then I’d fear to even move
One step from her aside.	
But her with thee I do admire,
And I've an ardent fond desire,
That thou with her wouldst condescend 
To lead me on till time shall end.

Be my companion every day,
Least I should err and go astray;
For well I know, that nought can shake,
Nor vile aspersions make thee quake;
Nor can the wicked stop thy course,
But soon thou’lt fill the whole wide earth,
And darkness be compelled to hide,
And all the wicked in their pride
In darkness will be swallowed up,
And drink of indignation’s cup,

From Him they have so long defied,
From Him who once for them hath died.
While those who Truth have ever sought, 
Shall in the cloud with Saints be caught;
And free from sorrow, pain and cares
all live with Christ a thousand years.  
Thou lead me on, thou gem of Truth,
For have loved thee from my youth.
		CHARLOTTE CRUSE THORPE. 
Ephraim, Sanpete Co.


[column 1]
		   ILMA DI MURSKA

	Many of our theatre-going citizens have a﻿
pleasant remembrance of the visit to our city
of Maurice Strakosch and his opera company
in 1875, and how the beautiful voice of Ilma
Di Murska charmed and electrified them. It
was a time when little of the legitimate opera
was known in Salt Lake, and few opportunities
[column 2]
had been afforded the music-loving of hearing
the classical notes or trained voices of renown.
True some famed and wonderful singers, among
whom were Parepa Rosa and Anna Bishop
had honored us with a visit and delighted us
with concert singing; and we remember how
eager we were to compare the wonderful voice
of Mme Bishop with the beautiful and ex-
quisite voice of our own Mrs. Careless, and
what exultant pride we felt in the comparison.
Then, also once, only once before had we the
privilege of hearing real opera; what a feast it
was, when Hess brought to us his English
Opera Company with Carleton, Castle, Maas,
Conly, Annie Beaumont, Seguin, and others
equally renowned. The people were hungry
for music, and every night the large theatre
was filled with a charmed and enthusiastic
audience. We were not critical then for our
knowledge of music was about as limited as
our opportunities.
	Since those days we have watched with some
interest the career of these early artists, their
rise or fall, their fame or fate. Carleton has
 visited many times since, but no more as the
baritone in heavy opera, but as the Prince of
opera comique; Castle, they say has lost his
beautiful tenor voice, but still insists in appear-
ing before the public on the concert stage in
remote towns in the East; Maas, poor Maas,
how lovely his voice rang out in that one act
from Rigoletto and thrilled us until we could
scarcely keep our seats, but felt like rising to
our feet and cheering him, and, he right at the
zenith of his glory died in London; Conly with
his magnificent bass voice visited us once again
in company with Mme. Kellog and he, alas!
was drowned; Seguin has retired; of Beaumont
we never hear; of Di Murska the late despatches
from, Munich tell us she is dead, died in great
poverty and her daughter, heart-broken, poi-
soned herself; the remains of the two were
taken to Gotha and cremated, and on the Urn
containing their ashes, one may read: “These
ashes are all that remains of a nightingale.”
Mme. Di Murska’s career was bright but brief;
at her death she was only in her forty-sixth
year and her public life lasted scarcely eighteen
years. She was born in Croatia in 1843. She
studied the art of song at Vienna and at Paris
under Signor and Mme. Marchesi. In 1862
she made her debut in opera at the Pergola
Theatre in Florence and was kindly received.
Three years later she accepted an offer to sing
at Her Majesty’s Theatre in London, at that
time the Mecca of Italian opera singers, the
part of Lucia in Donnizetti’s familiar opera,
and was a pronounced success. From that time
her star was in the ascendant, and her fame
was widespread. Between 1873 and 1876 she
visited this country, Australia and New Zealand;
at that time her voice was perfect. Two years
since, when she again visited this country, her
old admirers found the sweetness and quality
of her voice gone, and, feeble in strength, she
was unable to fulfil the duties either of concert
singer or instructress, and returned once more
to Europe, where she has since lived in retire-
ment.
	It is sad to think that one so bright, so much
admired and so successful should die in poverty,
but such is often the fate of greatness. It was
meet that one, who had charmed the world with
her song should die at Munich and be cremated
at Gotha, two cities so famed as musical centres.
The very mention of these names brings to
mind thoughts of song and melody; they are
places all lovers of the divine art long to visit,
and it seems most fitting for one whose soul so
wedded to the art should die in such a place.
							A. W. C.


SCATTERED THOUGHTS.

	Dear sister:  I have read so many useful and
instructive pieces in this valuable paper; I have
long desired to throw in my little mite with


the rest of the Women of Zion, for I think we
as mothers and daughters in Zion, should all
put our little mite together, and help roll on
this great and glorious work in which we are
engaged in these the last days, and to help fill
up these precious columns; but as for myself
I feel very weak and unlearned to try such as
this, but I have a desire to try and learn, and
accomplish some little good while I am per-
mitted to live, and to fulfill the mission I was
sent here to do, and I realize it is a great and
important work which we as young mothers in
Israel have resting on our shoulders, to know
how to train our precious children which our
Father in Heaven has blessed us with, and
which are our glory.  Then, dear sisters, let us
all strive to gain wisdom and knowledge, that
we may know the true way to train them, and
to set good examples before them, for I know
this is our greatest work we were sent here to
do, and let us strive to have them grow strong
in the faith so they will not be "as chaff before
the wind," but be as ripe wheat that is in the
bind, where neither wind nor storms can hurt
nor destroy them, and which our Father in
Heaven will love to claim.  And although we
are weak let us ever press onward, be faithful 
and true, and may we be as the wise Virgins 
with oil in our lamps.
	  Your sister in the Gospel,
						    K. L. C. 
Jan. 15, 1889.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	On Tuesday, Jan. 22, Senator Hoar, of Mass.
was re-elected to the United States Senate for
a term of six years.   His re-election was unan-
imous.
	Miss Amelia B. Edwards, who is now finish-
ing a tour of twenty lectures in Northern
England and Scotland, and has two or three 
rounds to make in other parts of the King-
dom before April, is receiving earnest invita-
tions to visit the United States to speak on
Egypt, Greek Art, Woman in Ancient Egypt;
Fiction, etc:
	Geo.  Wm.  Curtis, in the Easy-Chair of
Harper’s Monthly says: “The admission of
women to the school suffrage question is really
the overthrow of the last barrier.  If, as
lately, woman may properly and peacefully,
without insult or abatement of her modest
womanly dignity, and without the least harm
to her “sphere,” go to the polls and drop a
ballot for a member of a school committee
in one box, it is only Harlequin who argues
that she cannot with the same propriety drop a
ballot in the next box for Mayor.”
	On Monday afternoon  a meeting of the ex-
ecutive committee of the N.  W. S. A., was
held at the Riggs House.  The question of
union with the American Woman Suffrage
Association was discussed.  Miss Anthony,
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, of Indiana, and
others speaking in favor of union, Mrs. Shat-
tuck, of Massachusetts, and Mrs. Perkins, of 
Ohio, speaking against it.  It was voted that a 
committee of eleven be appointed by Miss
Anthony to confer with the committee of
eleven appointed from the American W. S. A.
Miss Anthony was instructed by vote to include
herself as one of this committee.  The com-
mittee are as follows:  Miss Anthony, chair-
man; Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker, Mrs. 
May Wright Sewall, Mrs. Virginia L. Minor,
Mrs. A. S. Duniway, Mrs. Laura M. Johns,
Mrs. Sarah M. Perkins, Mrs. Clara B. Colby,
Mrs. Jane H. Spofford, Mrs. Lillie Devereux
Blake, Rev. Olympia Brown.  This committee 
are understood to be about equally dvided
for and against.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS,  Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah 	Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 			
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
				Salt	Lake City Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

Salt Lake City,					February 1, 1889.


[Column 1]
ANNUAL WASHINGTON CONVENTION.
	The Twenty-first Annual Convention of the
National Woman Suffrage Association convened
in the Congregational Church, Washington, D. C.,
on Monday, January 21st, at 10 a.m., Miss Susan B.
Anthony in the Chair.  After some appropriate
opening remarks by the venerable Chairman, on
the anniversary and so on, she introduced the
Hon. A. G. Riddle, another veteran worker in
the cause of the enfranchisement of women.  His
speech was full of good logic and withal abound-
ing in humor, and it is to be regretted we have
not space to reproduce it in full, but we give here
some extracts, which we consider exceedingly in-
teresting, and which are out of the usual routine of
the speeches generally made on the subject.
	"You remember, you have heard, it may be, of
the Grimke sisters.  You have not?  If you go
down the street to a bookstore in this city and ask
for Mrs. Birney's Life of Sarah and Angelina
Grimke, you will get one of the best books, I de-
clare to you.  It is one of the best bits of Ameri-
can biography that has been given to the public
in these later years.  You will see the beautiful
lives of Sarah and Angelina Grimke, born on the
one side of Hugenot parentage, in South Carolina,
and on the other of ancestors who served in the
old revolutionary war—rich, wealthy slave-hold-
ers.  They belonged to the order of Friends; but
Sarah grew weary and sick of the home customs,
and escaped from her native city to Philadelphia;
and Angelina followed her.  The Friends have
always permitted women to speak, at least in their
meetings—they do not call it a church—though
they did afterwards cut off the Grimke sisters be-
cause they spoke to mixed audiences—mainly,
they said, because Angelina married Thomas
Wells.  Well, they didn't both marry him— but
they were both cut off.  Angelina was much the
younger.  They were the first to give the call for
the emancipation of the slave. They became the
first connected with the abolitionist societies; and
mark, it was proposed, curiously enough, that
women were to be enlisted in the emancipation of
the slave from physical bondage—the victim of
the auction block and the whipping post.  But no
matter about that, although it stirs my rather
elderly blood to think of it.  Women were to be
interested.  They were to pray.  Women always
were permitted to pray.
	"Ultimately it was supposed that pious women
might be enlightened by their fellow women, and
the call was made for the "parlor meetings," and
Sarah and Angelina conducted them.  Angelina
was a born orator.  She was preaching the Pente-
cost.  So they met in the parlors, and Sarah and
Angelina talked to the women, and it got talked
about outside.  Sarah was less gifted in speech,
but, if anything, more fiery in temperament.
[Column 2]
Then a Baptist clergyman proposed to give them
the session room of his church.  It was larger
than a parlor, and they held an anti-slavery meet-
ing to be addressed by the Grimke sisters.  The
minister kindly condescended to open it with
prayer.  Then he started down the aisle and
found an intermeddling abolitionist sitting back
where he could hear some little of the drippings,
and he took him by the shoulder and pushed him
out of the door. Men were not going to be permit-
ted to hear women speak.  Finally it went on
until they were invited to another session; and
then it was found that a few men had stolen in,
and these men went off and told of everything
that happened—as some men do about women—
and the matter became talked about and got into
the newspapers, and there was reprobation.
	"Finally, it went so broadly on that a church
could not be found in one neighborhood large
enough, and they held a great mixed meeting of
nearly a thousand people in a barn, and a
reverend gentleman opened it with prayer.  Then
he deliberately went out, saying that he would as
soon be caught robbing a hen-roost as remaining
to hear a woman make a speech.  And he was a
clergyman!  And the wonder is that the world is
infidel!  Great God! was he afraid that she was
going to unsex herself right there in the barn?
Ladies, if there is anything that is more abhorent
and obscene, and more obscenely abhorent to me
than any other form of speech I ever heard, it is
that woman could unsex herself.  Did you ever
hear of a man's unsexing himself? (laughter).  I
saw one of them here the other afternoon or
evening standing by a mild punch bowl—I am
glad to think that the punch was very mild—and
two young ladies were feeding him with a spoon
(continued laughter).  He was a dude.  He would
be a young lady if he could, and as he cannot, he
does all he can to show to the world that he is not
a man.
	"Unsexing!  Why God stamped sex not alone
upon the woman's figure.  Her heart, her soul,
her intellect—everything that pertains to her—is
of her sex.  Whether for good or for ill, whatever
she does, she does as a woman.  Was there ever
an instance in the world where woman has been
enlightened, has been taken along any line or
channel of improvement, that she has not become
more womanly?  Whatever she does do, suppos-
ing she does all the things that a man does, she does
not do them as a man does, but she does them as
a woman does them; and she could do them in no
other way—good, pious, Doctor Dix to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
	"But I was dealing with these Grimke sisters,
and I might as well follow that subject a little
further.  Do you know that they were questioned
not only by the outside, jeering world whom
everybody wants to be jeered by, but even their
own friends began to question them; and Sarah,
in response to the criticisms, began to assert the
right of a woman to make speeches.  That is
where Woman's Right was born.  Their right to
speak was questioned; their right even to speak
to women; and boldly their right to address mixed
audiences was challenged, and Sarah replied
fearlessly.  Ah, she was a born reformer.  When
God gets ready to do a thing, or to have it done,
there is always somebody somewhere to do it;
and it is usually the most unexpected person in
the world.  It usually comes from the most unex-
pected quarter of the world.  The Messiahs have
all come that way—and they have all been rejected,
every one of them; and those that have been re-
ceived you may rest assured they do not come of
God. The genuine Messiahs have all come
stamped with suffering and martyrdom."
	Mr. Riddle's speech throughout was full of
witticisms, making a pleasing variety, and there
were many others equally logical, but not so
abounding in fun.  The suffrage ladies were
highly favored in having Senator Blair address
[Column 3]
the Convention, as it is a strong point gained
when men of national reputation come forward
on the platform of a woman's convention and
speak favorably and forcibly upon the subject of
woman's enfranchisement.
	We shall make some extracts from the speech
of Senator Blair in our next issue of the paper,
and shall publish in full the address of the Utah
Delegate, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who spoke
upon the disfranchisement of the women of Utah
and was very favorably received and several
times greeted with warm applause.
	One of the best results of the Convention has
been the probable uniting of the two great wings
of woman suffrage into one body, viz., the National
W. S. A. and the American W. S. A. both of
them striving for the same end—the enfranchise-
ment of all women, but holding apart on account
of some seemingly rather immaterial differences
in methods of procedure and other unimportant
matters, that might, one would think, be easily
harmonized.
	We heartily rejoice in this proposed consumma-
tion, believing it will be for the best and most,
permanent good of all women, and of the entire
nation, and that this union will strengthen the
cause and hasten the day when woman every-
where throughout this goodly land will attain
political, social and religious freedom guaranteed
as much to her as to her brother man.
	"The name of the united society will be the
National American W. S. A.," neither Associa-
tion being willing to give up its own name, there-
fore the decision arrived at by the Committee
was to unite the two old names.  The new con-
stitution which has been proposed provides that
the Association vote as a delegate body, instead
of as a mass meeting.  Men and women will be
admitted on equal terms, and both will be equally
eligible to office.
	The Boston Woman's Journal says:  "The
union may now be regarded as almost a settled
thing.  Its formal completion is in all probability
only a question of a few weeks."


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	On Thursday, January 31st, at 3 p.m., a party
of ladies assembled, by invitation, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. M. Y. Dougall, to celebrate the 
birthday of Sister Zina D. H. Young, who, on
that day, reached the 68th anniversary of her
birth.  The party had been arranged beforehand
by Mrs. Dougall and Mrs. Beattie, two of the 
daughters of the late Brigham Young, and to
whom Sister Young has been a mother in very
deed; their own mother, Mrs. Clarissa R. Young,
having died while they were children.  Mrs.
Dougall's elegant parlors were thrown open and
were well filled with guests, the invited friends
and co-laborers of Mrs. Young, in whose honor 
this goodly company had been called together.
Congratulations were in order and the conversa-
tion was general until about 5 p.m., when a delic-
ious lunch was served in dainty style, by young
ladies, whose charming appearance gave zest and
tone to the sumptuous collation.
	When all had partaken of the bounties prepared
for their delectation, Mrs. Dougall, the hostess,
proposed that the party resolve itself into a
meeting, and Mrs. M. I. Horne, was unanimously
appointed to preside.
	The meeting opened by singing the favorite
hymn "O My Father," etc., Prayer was offered
by Sister M. A. Freeze.  Sister Horne made a
few opening remarks, appropriate to such a
gathering and such an occasion and congratulated
Sister Zina in having so successfully labored in
the interests of Zion and so forth.  Sister Sarah
M. Kimball and other ladies followed in the same
or a similar strain, and Sister Zina responded in
grateful acknowledgement of the honor tendered
her and gave some items of experience and ex-


pressed fervently her good wishes for all present.
Subsequently songs of Zion were sung <in ton> by some
of the sisters and also the interpretation given,
and it was a time of rejoicing, a spiritual feast to
all who participated therein. 
	Sister Jane S. Richards came in during the
meeting and very happily responded to the invita-
tion of Sister Horne to say a few words, although
she had not been present during the first part of
the evening.  It was the the birthday anniversary
of Sister Richards as well as that of Sister Young 
though the former lady is two years younger. 
Sister Richards had been to Ogden by special in-
vitation of her children to spend a part of her
birthday with them.  But in response to the invi-
tation of Sister Young’s daughters, came in to
show her appreciation and friendship, and join
with the other sisters in congratuations and re-
spect to Sister Zina, who now fills the place of
honor in the Relief Society of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, viz. the
Elect lady.  Sister Jane S. Richards is her first
Counselor and Sister Bathsheba W. Smith her
second Counselor.  The party was indeed a very
enjoyable one in many respects, and a sweet spirit
of love and harmony pervaded every breast.
There were several of the widows and of the
daughters of the late Pres. Young present.  At the
close of the meeting the Doxology was sung and 
a benediction pronounced by Sister M. W.
Wilcox.
	The EXPONENT offers its sincere congratula-
tions to Sister Zina D. H. Young and Sister Jane
S. Richards, wishing for them many happy re-
turns of the day, with renewed prosperity and
joy in their labors for the welfare of Zion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	
	THE Secretaries of the Relief Society in this
Stake of Zion are hereby particularly requested
to prepare correct semi-annual reports, and for-
ward them not later than the 25th of February,
to the Stake Secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard,
No. 60, Fourth South St., Salt Lake City, in order
that a full and complete report may be made in
time for the Stake Conference. By order of Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne, President Relief Society,
Salt Lake Stake.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the Y.
L. M. I. Associations is particularly anxious to
obtain correct semi-annual reports from each
Stake of Zion. These should be forwarded so as
to reach her not later than March 10th, so as to
enable her to compile them in time for General
Conference on April 6th. The secretaries of the
several Stakes are therefore desired to send
promptly to Mary E. Cook, 323 East, Third South
Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the
Primary Associations is desirous of obtaining a
full report from each Stake of Zion for the com-
﻿plete report to be prepared in time for the April
Conference, and this semi-annual report should
be ready ten days before, or about the 25th of
March. Consequently the reports from all points
ought to be in the hands of the Secretary as
early as the 10th of March at the latest, which
would give her then only two weeks time to pre-
pare them. It is a very important thing, and the
Presidents of Primary Associations in the several
Stakes of Zion, should see that this matter is
properly attended to, both as to correct figures
and statements and date of sending. Forward
the Stake reports to Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton,
No. 115 Third Street, Salt Lake City.
	"FREEDOM'S CONQUESTS" is a wonderful show-
ing of facts and figures in relation to the spread
of Woman Suffrage in America, Africa, Europe,
Asia and Oceanica.. The book is by Hamilton
Wilxoc, New York City, an able worker in the

[Column 2]
suffrage cause, and one who has always spoken
without prejudice of the suffrage in Utah. The
story is briefly told, and one might say the whole
is alphabetically and mathematically arranged,
for the writer has given the number of square
miles of islands and countries, and the number of
inhabitants, and so forth. Mr. Wilcox says,
"The cold facts are as usual beyond the greatest
achievements of fancy." "The figures are all
from the latest officials returns and estimates."
We shall be pleased to make some extracts from
the pamphlet at some future date.
	THE annual meeting of the Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association of the Seventeenth
Ward was held in the upper hall of the ward
meeting house, Tuesday evening, January 29th,
Mrs. Julia C. Howe presiding with ease and
dignity. There were quite a number of young
ladies present and several visitors from other
wards; and the Bishop's Counselor, Alonzo Hyde,
was on the stand. After the usual opening
exercises minutes of the last annual meeting were
read and accepted, and the President announced
the reading of a manuscript paper, entitled, "The
Quarterly Review." Miss Lucy Woodruff stepped
forward and read in an easy and graceful manner,
the editorial, "Stray Thoughts," and other con
tents of the paper, "The Gifts of the Gospel,"
Sketch of Gen. Geo. Washington; also of the life of
Jared from the Book of Ether, and a Correspond-
ence between Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall and Miss
Ella Dallas, in which there was much food for
reflection and comment. During the intervals
between the reading of each article short speeches
were made by the sisters present—Sisters E. S.
Tayor, M. I. Horne, R. B. Pratt, and E.
B. Wells. After these exercieses were concluded,
Coun. Hyde occupied a few minutes in speaking
to the young ladies. Programme for the next
meeting was read by the Secretary, and the meet-
ing closed with singing and benediction, which
was pronounced by Sister B. W. Smith. This
Association we consider a very progressive one,
and a pattern in many respects for others to
follow. The young ladies of the ward have ac-
quitted themselves creditably on several occasions
in special meetings and entertainments, and have
shown that they were really engaged in the
cause of improvement, mentally, morally and
spiritually.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	Nancy Broadbent Folsom, wife of Hyrum P.
Folsom, after suffering thirty-one days with pleuro
pneumonia, died at 1:50 p.m. January 12, 1889, in
this city, at her residence in the Nineteenth Ward,
near the Warm Springs; aged 46 years, 7 months
and 24 days. Deceased was born in Hursh, Ash-
ton, Underline, Lancashire, England, May 18, 1842. 
She was a devoted wife and mother; a friend to
the poor, and a faithful Latter-day Saint, and 
many will mourn her loss. She leaves a family of
six children, four sons and two daughters, the
youngest four years old. 
	On January 15th, as previously announced, the
remains left the family residence, arriving at the
Nineteenth Ward meeting house at 11 a.m., which 
was crowded on the occasion. Appropriate and 
consoling remarks were made by Elders Joseph
H. Felt, Edwin Frost, Martin Lenzi, Bishop Geo.
Romney and Robert Smith. The funeral cortege
was one block and a half long. 
	In connection with her demise we have received
the following statement, which is somewhat re-
markable: 
	"As Sister Broadbent was getting in the car-
riage to go and see the remains of Mrs. H. P.
Folsom, her daughter, she received a telegram
from Terra Haute, Indiana, that another daughter
of hers, Mrs. C. M. Daggett, expired at 7:45 p.m.
There was thus only about three hours difference 
[Column 2]
in the time of the death of the two daughters. It
is also a remarkable fact that Sister Broadbent
dreamed ten days ago that her daughters were
both dead, and that Sister Folsom died first, and
so it happened." 
	Adding to this singular coincidence, the funerals
of the two sisters were conducted at the same 
hour and day, although two thousand miles apart.
	
ANNIVERSARY OF NUPTIAL DAY OF HYRUM AND
NANCY B. FOLSOM. UTAH PENITENTIARY,
DEC. 29, 1886.

To-day I've been thinking of thee,
And scanned all the scenes of my life,
And a bright spot, Nancy, to me,
Is the day you first were my wife. 

But last night I thought I was old,
When I viewed myself in this Pen.;
To-day as the scenes I unfold
I live all my youth o'er again. 

I can see away back in the years,
As far as a mortal can look,
And read all our past joys and fears,
Like words on a well printed book.

Don't you mind what father did say,
When you both were talking of me,
That you could have Hyrum the day
That he would come back o'er the sea,

Or remember that happy day,
When autumn flowers were all in bloom
Chatting carelessly we strayed away
Just inside of mother's big room.

And then, with our backs to the door, 
Our hands on the old mantle shelf,
I whispered you could leave me no mo
Till I had you all to myself. 

I can see now that scene of bliss,
When you in your bridal array,
Gave me fondly that sealing kiss,
Just Twenty years, Nancy, to-day.

Then when for my sake you did part
With all the dear friends of our youth,
And did join with me hand and heart
To build us a home in the south.

In scanning the crosses through life,
And our darlings laid in the cold grave,
'Twas then in the struggle and strife,
I found you so true and so brave.

But one scene I ever recall,
And truthfully say to you, dear wife,
That deed is the best act of all
To me, it is the gem of your life.

You may have done so in dread,
When you gave me Dear Annie's hand,
But with all your sorrows you said
You knew it was Father's command. 

I honor the vows I took then,
That I would be faithful and true,
And now I'm here in this Pen
For those vows to Annie and you.

I soon once again may be free,
But no prison walls can divide
That love, dear wife I have for thee,
Since the day you first were my bride. 

But there are many bright days in store,
And blessings awaiting for thee,
When prison and bondage no more
Will sever my dear wives from me.


A SLEIGH RIDE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I wonder if it would not interest you to get
a glimpse of this north country by going with
us, in the senses, for a sleigh ride this bright
winter's day. Come—try the elixir of the
keen fresh air and the accompaniment of the
merry jingle jingle of the bells.
	Here we go through the streets of the little


[Column 1]
town and it don't take many minutes to pass
the houses and enter the woods. The horses
are as exhilerated as we are, and they canter
on at a great pace, making the snow fly in our
faces; the desire to laugh is irresistible, and
peal after peal echoes down the road—now we
are passing through an avenue of trees of such 
great size and height, I'll not make you stare
by guessing even how many hundred feet high
some of them are; but how close and straight
they grow, like sentinels guarding the forests
from the ruthless hand of man; but, ah! they
are not strong enough for that, even in their
might, for see—here comes the wood-chopper
his ax over his shoulder, and his sharp eye
marking the highest and mightiest monarch
of the forest, on which to show his skill, and
here we are in sight of a "clarin" made by his
brawny arms; there is his little cabin with the
smoke curling gracefully up from the chimney,
into the pure clear air. How funny the
stumps look, capped with "Tam o' shanters" of
snow, some rakishly careering over on one side,
in a 'tipsey stuck up style, as though they were
badly cut up, or more properly speaking, cut
down. Here we are, in sight of the loveliest
green grove of pines, and such a pretty bit of
valley with the river winding through, and all
about us mountains; mountains of green, some
just silvered with "the beautiful," while in the
distance some o'ertopping all covered with the
pines which stand like sheeted ghosts; their
tips just catch the sun's rays, and are crowned
with the delicate roseate glow that artists
strive in vain to duplicate. Now we are near-
ing another patch of woods and only the rosy
clouds that hang above that mountain, hold
the glow of the sunshine.  How dim and silent
is this forest; no sign of life save that we bring; 
but, O, the picture! How beautiful. See, how
the undergrowth of young trees and shrubs
are covered with filmy veils of lace. Verily
Jack Frost thou art a dazzling genius; no lace 
webs that Royal Trosseaux can show, can com-
pare with the intricate, delicate patterns here.
Doesn't it look as if we might lift the frost
from that young pine, as easily as the veil from
the face of a blushing bride!
	Still we race on. Ah—here is indeed a de-
serted village; but not of the Goldsmith type.
The low log cabins stand with doors hospitably
open, yet no sign of  life, within or without.
Look at that queer sign, the letters formed of
quartz specimens, "Assay Office," is it? It
must have been some artistic chap who held
forth there. No ruddy glow comes forth from
the cavernous depths of yon black-smith
shop door, nor sound of music from the silent
anvil. O, look! a covey of partridges just
ahead; what pretty creatures, and so odd with
their bright top-knots.  Well, well; here are
the remnants of the once flourishing mining
town of Eagle—a corner grocery, a saloon
with hotel attachments, a cottage here and
there, that looks as though inhabited. Three
men with pipes in their mouths and hands in
their pockets, staring in a suprised way at
our appearance; several yelping dogs surround
us as we stop for an instant, and some forlorn
chickens are huddled under the edge of the
saloon porch, and a still forlorner woman
peering through the window, are the only life
to be seen.
	Crack the whip—and away we go, for the
snow is like glass and the road in fine condi-
tion. Here we are now, at the garden beds of
our valley, where they raise the finest straw-
berries in the world for size and flavor, and
"praties" which, while we deprecate ther size,
as poor old Mike said "they're maley Major,
ain't they maley, though?"
	Here we are at "Old Mikes" cabin, where he
was found some weeks back by some men, sick
and alone, too far gone for the care and help
they brought him to town for, poor old chap,
he was quite a character and had "foine
dhrames" as he once told us of visiting once

[Column 2]
more his native bantry. Let us hope his
'dhrames' are sweet where he quietly sleeps on
the hill-side under the deep snow. But while
I've been moralizing; we have entered a dense
forest again, and the sun shining through the
snow laden branches, dazzles our eyes with
the glitter of nature's diamonds. At length
we have reached the turning point—here is the
saw-mill; now, pray be careful Mr. Driver, and
don't upset us in that snow bank; now wait for
one moment and let us look about and take in
long inspirations of this delicious air, so 
freighted with balsamic odors and health;
think of spruce gum and be happy; look at the
great logs and see what lovely grains those cedar
planks show. Hurry on, for it won't do to let
the horses get cool now, so we must face the
wind and away on the homeward stretch.
Surely it is raining as we come out of the
depths of the timber, but no; we are only
passing through the clouds which are resting
in the little valley. The horses seem to scorn
"terra firma," and fairly fly, now they turn
toward home, one instant we are in among the
trees, where the light grows dim and then
dazzled with the lights on the snow. Tuck
the furs closer around you; how quickly we
came over that stretch of road past the "Gold-
en King Mill" and the long line of flume.
Through the last bit of woods and here is
"Sunset Peak" showing his snow-crowned
summit with the last rays of the setting sun
hanging like a halo round his hoary head.
Again the streets of the town and the warm
glow of the fire seen through the windows of
the cottage on "Gold Hill."
	Why, I hardly knew I was cold; yet the
thought of a warm fire is most agreeable and
such an appetite as I have brought back for
dinner; may good digestion wait on it, is all I
ask. Certainly our cheeks are rosier and our
spirits lighter for the ride. I hope it has been
a pleasant one for you.
	WOODINA.
	Murray, Idaho. Jan. 25, 1889.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y.  L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the St. Joseph Stake of Zion convened
at Thatcher, November 31st, 1888, President
Willmirth East presiding. On the stand, of
the Stake authorities, Prest. Christopher Lay-
ton and Counselors. Meeting opened by sing-
ing, "Once more we come before Thee, Lord."
Prayer offered by Patriarch Philemon Merrill.
Minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved; also the Stake and local reports.
	After the presidents had reported their
various wards, Bro Merrill, by request, gave a
brief report of the St. David Society, there be-
ing no lady representative of that ward
present.
	Coun. Mary L. Ransome spoke a short time
on the duties of mothers in training their
children in the principles of the Gospel. "We
should be more diligent in teaching them to
attend the Primaries,” etc.
	Meeting adjourned till 2. p.m. Benediction
by Coun. Wm. Johnson.	
	Afternoon session: Opened with singing and
prayer. Prest. East said: “It is the manifesta-
tions of the power of God that has gathered
us from the nations of the earth, and it is left
with us to be subject to the priesthood of God
that is placed upon the earth to guide us; it is
only the faithful that will stand the tests, etc;
it is therefore necessary that we seek diligently
for the Spirit of God to lead us in the paths of
right and rectitude. I am proud to represent
the women of Zion, and pray that I may ever
be found faithful in the performance of my
duties.”
	The Stake and local officers were pre-
[Column 2]
sented before the conference and sustained.
Prest. C. Layton and Patriarch Merrill occu-
pied the remainder of the afternoon, instruc-
ting the sisters in their various duties; were
pleased to know that the poor were cared for;
wished the different branches of the Society to
lend all the aid they could in assisting the
Indian missionaries in their labors. Among
other remarks said: "We should be humble
and prayerful at all times, that we may wield
an influence for good over our husbands and
sons. We are left to ourselves, and in conse-
quence of this, many are flaunting in the pomp
and pride of the world; it is therefore necessary
that we seek diligently to keep the command-
ments of God, that we may gain an inheritance
in His kingdom.”		
	The presidents of the various branches were
instructed to keep on hand material for cloth-
ing the dead. 
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Bishop John Taylor.
C. M. GUSTAFSON, Sec.

SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the San Juan Stake 
held their conference at Bluff, Nov. 27th, 1888,
Prest. Jane M. Walton presiding. Choir sang,
“The Coming Day.” Prayer by Prest. Ham-
mond. Singing, "Devotional Hymn.”  A
goodly numbor of the brethren were present,
including Prest. F. A. Hammond and Coun-
selors, and the Bishops of the Mancos, Burn-
ham and Bluff Wards, Prest Moiselle M. Halls 
and Mary N. Jones, of the Stake Presidency
of the Y. L. M. I. A.; also Prest. Julia Butt,
Stake Prest. of the Primary.
	Prest. Walton hoped to be dictated by the
right spirit while she endeavored to address 
the conference. Considered it a great blessing
to have the privilege of holding Relief Society
conference. It made her heart feel warm to 
see the sisters; felt that the Spirit of God had
been with us during our conference so far.
Knew of a surety that every principle of the
Gospel was true; would rather die than deny the
truth.	
	Minutes of the former conference were then
read and accepted.
	Prest Abigal Stevens of the Burnham Ward,
said it gave her pleasure to report her Society.
The sisters felt well and united: they held one
testimony and two work meetings each month.
Desired to continue faithful and true to the
end.		
	Sister Neilson reported the Bluff Ward So-
ciety. Said the sisters had done as well as
could be expected, owing to their few num-
ber. "If we will listen to the teachings and 
instructions of those in authority we will be
blest; realized there was a great mission for the
sisters to perform.
	Prest. Walton then resigned her position as 
Prest of the Bluff Ward, as she had moved
from that place. Prest. F. A. Hammond
honorably released her, and them made a few 
needed explanations.	
	Coun. Moiselle Halls reported the Mancos,
Society; said the sisters felt more united than
at last conference; held testimony and work
meetings regularly; were storing up grain.
"The teachers are very diligent.” 
	Bishop Nielson felt to return Sister Walton 
a vote of thanks; knew she had done a good
work, and had been very kind to the sick.
The Society at Bluff was then organized as
follows: Kisten Nielson, President; Agnes
Allen and Eliza Redd, Counselors; Jennie Al- 
len, Secretary; Ordella Allen, Treasurer.
Prest. Hammond moved that Sister Kisten
Nielson be honorably released from  acting
First Counselor to the Stake President. Martha
Hammond was then sustained as First and
Josephine Wood as Second Counselor to Prest.
Jane Walton.
The general and local officers of the Relief


[Column 1]
Society were sustained. Coun. Martha Ham-
mond spoke a few minutes, giving good coun-
sel. 
Coun. Wm. Halls said his advice to the sis-
ters was to devote themselves to their office 
and calling. Prayed God to bless all who 
had been called to fill the different positions.
	Prest. Hammond felt to endorse all that had 
been said by the sisters. Prest Walton ad-
journed the conference. Choir sang, “Improve
the shining moments.” Prayer by Bishop Geo.
Halls.
SARAH J. ROGERSON, Stake Sec.

BANNOCK STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
held in Rexburg, Nov. 17, 1888, Prest Tem-
perance Hinckley presiding. Meeting opened 
by singing. Prayer by Coun. Rigby.
Singing. Roll was then called, and minutes 
of previous conference were read and approved.
 The Stake and local officers were presented
and unanimously sustained. Stake Prest.
Temperance Hinckley was pleased to meet the 
sisters of the Relief Society; would liked to 
have seen more present. Exhorted all to 
come to their meetings. “If you feel deter-
mined to come, you can, for ‘where there’s a
will there’s a way.’” Earnestly advised the 
mothers of Zion to be prayerful and humble.
“Attend to your secret prayers, for much good
is derived from secret prayer. If you are de-
pressed in your feelings, if you will kneel 
down and pray God will help you, and your
burden will seem light.” Advised the mothers 
to bring up their children in the fear and ad-
monition of God; too much cannot be said on 
this subject. “The teachers of the Relief So-
ciety should be very diligent, and seek for the 
Spirit of God to help them to perform their 
duties in a right and acceptable manner, for a 
great responsibility is resting on them. You 
should visit the sick, and see that the poor are 
cared for.” Asked the blessing of the Lord to 
be with us to aid us in the truth and all good 
works.
	Stake Coun. Sarah A. Gunnel bore a strong 
testimony to the truth of this work; made some 
good and timely remarks; spoke very encourag-
ingly to the sisters. “Although you have 
many things bearing upon you in body and 
spirit you should not give up; remember, ‘No
cross, no crown,’ and press forward with re-
newed diligence.”
	Stake Coun. Telitha J. Helm spoke with 
power; exhorted the mothers to inculcate good
principles in the bosoms of their children.
“You should teach them to be pure, virtuous 
and chaste, even as our Father in heaven and 
His son Jesus Christ are. Should we curse 
our enemies? No; we should pray for them; as 
Jesus said, when nailed to the cross, “Oh, God!
forgive them, for they know not what they
do.” We should pray for the missionaries 
who are laboring for the work of God, and 
those who are pleading for us in the halls
of Congress. We should live pure lives,
so that when we are called to lay down our 
bodies we can rise crowned heirs in the king-
dom of God.” Asked for the Spirit of God to
rest on all the branches of the Relief Society 
in Zion.
	Sister Sarah A. Barnes bore her testimony 
to the truth of this work. “If any one of 
you do not have a knowledge for yourselves 
that this is the true kingdom of God, take 
the Doctrine and Covenants, Book of Mormon 
and Bible and study them carefully, and it is 
so plain any one can have a knowledge, if they 
will seek with prayerful hearts. I feel that a 
large portion of the Spirit of God has been with 
us; we have heard many good things, and we 
should try to remember them and put them in 
practice. The counsel in regard to bringing 
up our children is good and from God.” Asked
God to bless us and help us to do right.
	Stake Coun. W. F. Rigby exhorted all to 
faithfulness in keeping the commandments of 
God. “We are living in a wicked world, for
many curse God, and it behooves you as 
mothers in Israel to be very prayerful, for un-
less you seek the Father you will not be able 
to keep your sons and daughters from the con-
taminating influences of the outside element.
I realize that a great responsibility rests on the
mothers of Zion; you each have a mission to
perform; if you can bring up your children to 
be honorable and to be saved in the kingdom 
of God, you have done a great work. Visit 
the homes of the sisters; encourage them, and 
invite them to come to meeting.” Gave many 
good and timely instructions. Asked God to 
bless the sisters of the Relief Society.
	Prest. T. E. Ricks addressed the conference;
expressed his approbation of the work of the 
Society. Said he was more than pleased with 
the remarks of the speakers; advised the sis-
ters to prepare in time for the next conference,
and be there, “and you that are here will feel,
when you go home, that you have been richly 
repaid for coming, for a large portion of the 
Spirit of God has been here. You should be 
strict in every word and act, so you can gain 
confidence in each other; cultivate a spirit that 
will bless and comfort your sisters; when any 
one is cast down cheer them up. I think we 
are as free from talking about our neighbors 
as any place I was ever in.” Gave many 
good instructions, which sank deep into the 
hearts of all present; also spoke of the good-
ness of the Lord unto us. Asked God to bless 
us in all we are called to do.
	Prest. T. Hinckley said she was well pleased 
with the meeting; thought we had been well
repaid for coming, “and I have been highly 
pleased with the good instructions we have 
received from Prest. Ricks and Coun. Rigby.
I thank them for their kind remembrance.
	Conference was then adjourned for three 
months.  Closed by singing, ‘'Glorious things
of thee are spoken.” Benediction by Telitha
J. Helm.
SARAH A. BARNES, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A COMPARISON BETWEEN THE
CHARACTERS OF DESDE-
MONA AND PORTIA.

 BY ELSIE ADA-FAUST.

	In all his writings Shakespeare has probably
never presented  to us two characters which
would do more to earn for him the name of a
versatile writer than those of Desdemona and
Portia. So different, and yet so peculiar to
the positions which the writer makes them
occupy.
	In Portia we find the most intelligent and
intellectual woman that Shakespeare has
created. In Desdemona a creature fitted only
to grace a position of affection and dependence.
While in Portia we find tenderness and
womanly affection to a high degree, it is tem-
pered by her pride and reason. Desdemona's
reason is not great, and her pride is as noth-
ing, for Brabantio tells us:
	"In spite of nature, of years, of country,
credit, everything," she fell in love with what
she feared to look upon. To her love came as
a whirlwind, sweeping all former duties and
principles from her path; carrying her beyond
the love and obedience to her father, and lay-
ing in waste the condemnation of customs, the
sneers of enemies, the counsel of friends, every-
thing, that she might consecrate her thoughts
and life to the moon.
	To Portia love came only as a summer breeze,
fluttering softly her heartstrings; swaying her
thoughts to the rythmatic tune of hope; rip-
pling the surface of her calmer actions; sug-
gesting a treason to her father's wishes; and

[Column 2]

brushing aside a portion of her modesty to al-
low her to say:

"I pray you, tarry; pause a day or two
Before you hazard; for, in choosing wrong
I lose your company; therefore forebear awhile;
I here’s something tells me, but it is not love,
I would not lose you, and you know yourself
Hate counsels not in such a quality."

	She could make her love subservient to the
trial her father imposed upon the man who
was to win her. And, no doubt, although she
asks, "Is it not hard, Nerissa, that I cannot
choose one nor refuse none?" Had the hardship
been imposed upon her of accepting either the
Prince of Arragon or the Prince of Morroco,
she would have bowed submissively to her fate
with a sort of dignified indifference, and pro-
ceeded to be happy.
	How different Desdemona, who took her
marriage into her own willful hands with so
much disregard of her father's wishes, that he
must learn from a stranger of the event to
which he was so much opposed!
	In her only act of firmness, that of loving
Othello in spite of everything, she displays
her extreme weakness; she shows how plastic
is her nature, and how she is governed by her
strongest impulse.
	The one act usurps all the strength of
which her nature is capable, and in taking all,
appears like a column without a pedestal, the
greater it grows the weaker it becomes.
	All Portia's calm speculations about her
marriage, her witty criticism on the traits of
her many suitors; her hesitating to let Bassanoi
choose; while weaknesses in themselves, be-
tray a strength of character unknown to Des-
demona. They mean in her a determination
to be firm in her duty in spite of her inclina-
tion, to put aside all her own wishes, that she
might fulfill those of her father, and to ac-
cept the inevitable with all possible grace.
	As we cannot imagine Desdemona conceiv-
ing and carrying out the plan of the court
scene that Portia did, so it would be as hard to
think of Portia submitting to a jealous man's
frenzy enough to be quietly smothered with a
pillow.
	With Desdemona's narrowness of intellect
it would have been impossible for her to devise,
as did Portia, a plan to free her husband from
the debt to Antonia, nor can we contemplate
her preparing with a mixture of humor and
seriousness to carry out that scheme, and much
less think of her as successfully and bravely
performing her work so that all difficulties are
cleared away. Desdemona, when she says,

"So that, dear lords, if I be left behind, 
A month of peace, and he go to the war,
The rites for which I love him are bereft me,
And I a heavy interim shall support
By his dear absence. Let me go with him."

shows how hard it would have been to substi-
tute Portia's words of,

"O love, despatch all business, and be gone!"

How difficult for her to have tricked her hus-
band as did Portia; to have received that ring
with Bassanio's words,

	"Alas! it is a trifle;
I will not shame myself to give you this,"

as indifferently as did Portia. She very likely
would have sought in some timid way to at-
tract his attention and perhaps cried when she
found he treated a gift from her so lightly.
	And Portia, with her strength and independ-
ence begging to an unreasonable husband:
	"Kill me to-morrow, let me live to-night,"
would certainly be a strange picture. We can
paint her as being far more apt to calmly wave
him aside, while she deliberately went for
assistance, leaving him to digest a few bitter,
well chosen words.
	And as we have noted a difference in charac-


ter and of the events of their lives so far, so
we must take our leave of them in a different
way. Of Desdemona, dead through tamely
submitting to the wrath of a jealous being
whom she loved beyond everything, and to
screen whom she died with a lie on her lips.
As we leave this martyred creature, of whom
Emelia says,

“Moor, she was chaste; she loved thee, cruel Moor,”

we leave Portia surrounded by friends who
dearly love her, and by all that money can buy.
This creature of whom Jessica says:

“Why, if two gods should play some heavenly match,
And on the wager lay two earthly women,
And Portia one, there must be something else
Pawned with the other, for the poor, rude world hath not


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, in this city, Dec. 26th, 1888, of paralysis, Ann
Corbett, beloved wife of Daniel Corbett. "Give her of
the fruits of her hands, and let her own works praise her
in the gates."

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	We, the sisters of the Relief Society, unanimously
adopt the following Resolutions:
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved sister and
friend, therefore,
	Resolved, That we do recognize in the death of our sis-
ter, Ann Corbett, the loss of an able and efficient treasurer
of the Second Ward Relief Society.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past labors and devotion

[Column 2]

Culbertson, who successfully removed the same, and
afforded considerable relief.
	In the year 1883 her husband died. After the accident
she was unable to visit the sick as formerly, but she would
give advice and medicines; still she continued to practice
as midwife until she died, which occurred September 3rd
1888.
	At her funeral, which was held at her oldest son's resi-
dence, a large number of people assembled, and the ex-
pressions of sorrow were plainly visible on every hand.
Every one felt they had lost a mother and a friend; one who
always had a kind word for them and good advice for their
children.
	She was the mother of ten children, eight of whom are
still living. She remained true to the cause she espoused
on the broad Atlantic, and died full of faith and hope.
		WM, N. PURRINGTON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1889.	No. 18.


[For the EXPONENT.]

THE CRUMBS THAT FELL.

Close side by side two neighbors lived,
	And both were poor indeed;
'Twere hard to say, were truth all told,
	Which lived in greater need;
If one had work, his neighbor'd none,
	And each had mouths to feed.

Each one a shaggy pony owned,
	And each a lean ribbed cow,
Which puzzled those of greater means;
	Why do they keep them? how?
For what the brutes eat would feed them,
	I'd sell  them off, I vow!

But oh, the poor folks really prized
	Those creatures rough and dumb,
And pictured them in nobler guise,
	For every heart hath some
Love of possession and kind care,
	Though troubles with it come.

The summer passed with burning drouth,
	The price of hay rose high;
"Good times," said they with hay to sell,
	"Hard times," said those who buy,
And watched their stacks slow sinking down
	As weeks went creeping by.

Now, whether 'twas for company,
	Or whether 'cause 'twas warm,
On the south side of Robert's stack,
	Just after every storm,
Sure as the day came Jamie's stock,
	As though it were no harm.

They leaned across the slender fence
	Till it near broke away,
And calmly licked and calmly chewed
	The precious, high priced hay;
And when well filled they sought repose
	On leaves that round them lay.

Oft Robert's wife all vexed looked out,
	And scarce knew what to do;
"The man's to blame, yet he is poor—
	'So is my husband, too;
The golden creed—'Do unto all
	As you’d have them to you.'

"I think the man has clean forgot,
	Yet, it's as much to me
As 'tis to him. If he should come
	Now to his door and see,
I think he'd take them both away,
	I'd not so careless be."

Then once in wrath she raised aloft
	Her broom, and swift drew near,
To put to flight the hungry things,
	That showed no signs of fear;
And all at once a lesson old
	Came to her strong and clear.

The tale of Lazarus who asked
	The crumbs alone that lay
Beneath the rich man's table, and
	She turned and went away;
"They only get the leaves that fall,"
	An angel heard her say.

So comes to every soul in life
	The choice of right or wrong,
So taught to ev'ry Christian heart
	The tale through ages long;
Though humble be our power to point
	Where we shall yet belong.

		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
January 21, 1889.


[Column 1]

UTAH'S LADY DELEGATE.

	Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who left here on
the 13th of January to attend the Annual
Convention of the National Woman Suffrage
Association in Washington, as a Delegate
from Utah, arrived at the Capitol previous to
the opening of the Convention, and was al-
lowed time for an address, notwithstanding the
previously arranged programme. Mrs. Rich-
ards was received with considerable applause,
and made a decidedly favorable impression.
We give her speech in full, as published in a
letter to the Deseret News from the special cor-
respondent in Washington.—ED

	"'Tis better to have voted and been disfran-
chised, than never to have voted at all."
	This is a very prosaic paraphrase of a very
poetical sentiment, but it is true, and behind it
lies a great political wrong.
	I am a native born citizen of the United
States, and for fifteen years enjoyed all the
rights and privileges of the elective franchise.
I voted for every kind of elective officer in the
Territory of Utah, from delegate in Congress
to school trustee. I never once sold my vote,
nor was I influenced in casting it by either
fear or favor. I never attempted to repeat; no
man for whom I ever cast a ballot was ever
charged with malfeasance in office, or with any
other violation of his official oath. Yet to-day
I am disfranchised and on the same political
plane as you, my sisters, and the rest of our
sex in this "land of liberty."
	I think I may safely challenge any male
voter of the United States to show a better
use of the rights of American citizenship. I
do make that challenge for myself, and on
behalf of the thousands of women in Utah
whom I represent, and whose political record
is above reproach. And on their behalf, with
all possible respect to the distinguished gentle-
men who sit in Congressional majesty on Capi-
tol Hill, I protest against the wresting from us,
by the right of might, of that franchise which
we had never abused, and which was our vested
right. 
	In 1870 women were given the elective fran-
chise in Utah.
	Subsequently an act was passed by the legis-
lature striking the word male from the law
prescribing qualifications for holding office, so
that women might be equally eligible with men
to any office in the Territory. This act never
became a law because it was disapproved by
the Governor, who is appointed without the
consent of the people, and his vote is absolute,
even when opposed to the unanimous vote of
the entire legislature. And so the will of the
people was defeated by this unrepublican one
man political power.
	Just as one who has loved and lost is always
deemed the best authority upon affairs of the
heart, so I venture to claim a particular knowl-
edge of the use, the power of the franchise in
woman's hands. And the experience which I
gained with the women of Utah should not be
concealed from this Convention; it belongs to
you; it is essentially a part of woman's history
in this great Republic; it is the best practical
illustration of the problem whiah has yet been
given, and it is likely to obtain that pre-emin-
ence for years to come, because in all the seven-
teen years during which the women of Utah
exercised their right to vote, they held the
balance of power between the two parties, and

[Column 2]

no man was elected to office without their ap-
proval.
	During all these years we voted without
disturbance and without injury to the manners,
morals or domestic comfort of the men. We
were able to determine whom we wished to
sustain by our votes, and no one had the right,
the power, and, I will say for our husbands,
brothers and fathers, the wish or desire to pre-
vent, intimidate, or coerce us in the least de-
gree. We were citizens of the United States,
armed with that all-potent yet peaceful politi-
cal weapon, the ballot, and we challenge the
world to show where, in a single instance, we
wielded it wrongfully. And let me say right
here, that we have not had to contend against
the male opposition common in other places,
for the majority of men in Utah believe that
woman was designed by the Creator to be
man's companion in all things, whether in the
Church or in the State, in time and in eternity,
and to share dominion with him over all created
things.
	While we enjoyed the franchise we took part
in the primaries and nominating Conventions,
acted as delegates, and did our share of the
political business.
	Two years ago Congress abrogated the right
of woman's suffrage in Utah, and thousands of
us were summarily deprived of our political
power. We had committed no offense against
the sacred franchise and had violated no law
of our opponents, and, therefore, in their esti-
mation we were not worthy to vote at all. The
same logic would have disfranchised men as
well as women, but their ballots were pre-
served.
	It has been intimated that the women of
Utah were compelled to vote as required by
the men. This is not true. No coercion was
ever attempted, and, if it had been, the effort
to accomplish it would have failed because,
under the law, we had a perfectly secret ballot,
which put it beyond all human power to find
out how any person voted unless the elector
chose to tell.
	It is also an error to suppose that women
voters of Utah used the ballot to uphold or
perpetuate any system or practice in opposition
to the laws, or the will, or common custom of
this country. No such question was ever voted
on at the polls in that Territory. Votes of
men and women alike were merely cast for
local officers, and we chose to elect such men
as we believed would act honestly, fairly and
for the public good, in the interests of tem-
perance, order, morality and economy, and not
for private ends or personal greed. That was
"the head of our offending."
	The deprivation which we have sustained is
not more cruel to us than to you. The con-
tinuance of our political power meant that you
could have pointed to our work as a proof that
the general cause was worthy of success. But
Congress, in the almost infinite wisdom of
legislative man, decreed to dig up the new
budding tree before it could bear fruit and
give seed. It was not within the male purpose
that this little acorn, planted nineteen years
ago, should grow into the sturdy oak.
	But while we have lost our franchise in Utah,
we still retain our property rights. Unmarried
women have all the legal rights of men, so far
as the acquisition and disposition of property
is concerned, whether real or personal. Mar-
ried women have entire control of all the


[Column 1]
property they held at the time of marriage
and can acquire, hold and sell, or otherwise
dispose of real and personal property after
marriage without the consent of their hus-
bands, but the husband must have the consent
of the wife. In addition to this they have the
right of dower, by which they inherit one-third
of the husband's estate at his death. The law
of inheritance is the same from the wife to the
husband as from the husband to the wife; each
inherits from the other under similar condi-
tions. 
	For many years the women of Utah have
been organized into Relief Societies and Mu-
tual  Improvement Associations. Their sym-
pathies have always been with the Woman
Suffrage movement. After the visit to Utah,
last summer, of Mrs. Colby and Mrs. Saxon,
officers of this Association, who lectured on
“Woman Suffrage; the International Council
of Women and the relation of woman’s ballot
to all reforms,” a Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion was organized as an auxiliary to the Na-
tional. Its members number about two hun-
dred and are rapidly increasing. In this move-
ment we did not receive the aid or sanction of
our vice-president, because she did not think
woman suffrage good for Utah. The organiza-
tion was effected by the chairman of the execu-
tive committee. It is complete in every par-
ticular, and the by-laws declare the object of
the association to be “to work for the enfran-
chisement of women without regard to party,
sect, or creed, and to take such steps from time
to time as shall seem to be wise and expedient
for the political advancement of the women
of Utah.”  The Association has sent two dele-
gates to this convention. The very large ma-
jority of people in Utah are in favor of woman
suffrage. As an evidence of this, we secured
8,393 signatures to the national enrollment in
three weeks, 3000 of them being the names of 
men, and we have but just begun our work. 
	All trades, professions and occupations in
Utah are open to women. We have editors,
doctors—who have graduated in the best col-
leges of the country—lawyers, school teachers,
artists, poets, musicians, lecturers, merchants,
clerks, cashiers, photographers, printers, book-
binders, telegraph and telephone operators, silk
workers, weavers, factory hands and artisans
in every kind of work that women are able to 
do, as well as in those domestic labors which
some narrow-minded people think comprise
the sphere of woman. We have no “superflu-
ous women” in the Territory, and none who
need remain without employment; it is often
impossible to hire women for domestic ser-
vice. 
Women, in the male estimation, are not as
fit as men to perform jury service, because it is
said they would be governed by sentiment. If
the premises be true, the argument is still false.
The sentiment which would most often actuate
women is pity. With men it is too often bus-
iness, avarice or social cowardice. Women
might favor the poor and friendless. Men cer-
tainly do show illegal leniency to the rich and 
powerful. 
	We are told that suffrage means turmoil of 
mind, which women should avoid. I do not
concede that this is necessarily so, but I do say
that, if it were so, my sentiment would be that 
of the heroic Roman who said: “Better a dis-
turbed liberty than a quiet slavery.”
	For one, in a general sense, I object to the
cruel withholding of suffrage from women, in
a land consecrated by blood to universal liber-
ty. In a special sense I object to the arbitrary
edict by which thousands of intelligent voters
were deprived of a sacred right, simply be-
cause they were women. 
	The mightiest human problem vexing the
world to-day is the relation of the rich and the
poor—the profit eaters and the profit makers.
Man alone will never solve it. There are
[Column 2]
cases of wounds and illness where woman’s
nursing is absolutely necessary. This is a 
desperate case of social disorder, where woman
must minister with all her skill and tender-
ness to bring the patient through the crisis.
The cry which we now offer up is the cry of
the ages. It is the protest of the few against
the many, the argument of thought against
bigotry. To-day the world is correcting the
active wrongs of last century, and is making
recompense to the demon of intolerance, by be-
ing blind and deaf to the oppressed of to-day.
The wonder which men feel now that their an-
cestors could have been so intolerant will be
felt a generation hence by their sons regarding
these same men.
	The “federation of the world” will not be
accomplished while the most advanced nation
on earth is but half redeemed. But the cause
of woman’s enfranchisement is gaining irresist-
ible momentum. Its triumph must soon come.
When it is victorious, but not till then, will
might cease to her arbiter of right. 
	When a cause is irrevocably lost, it is then 
too late for words. To discuss inevitable sor-
row is only to give intensity to grief. But the
women of Utah do not regard their own fran-
chise as being forever lost. We hope and ex-
pect to see this great struggle terminate speedi-
ly and triumphantly for the cause of woman,
and to see political liberty enjoyed without re-
gard to sex. When that sublime hour comes
it will mark the beginning of the end of tyran-
ny, oppression and misrule. God speed the 
day.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE MEETING.

	There was an interesting meeting of the
Woman's Suffrage Association of Utah held in
the Social Hall at 2 p.m., Saturday, Feb. 9,
1888, First Vice-President Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
presiding. Prayer was offered by Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young.
	Mrs. Alder's opening address: "The hand
that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the
world." This sentiment was written long ago;
but it is just as true to-day as it was then. It
has from time immemorial been conceded that
the home (that dearest spot on earth), is the
woman's kingdom. And many women there
are, even to-day, who desire no other sphere.
History shows that adown all the ages the
mother who rocks the cradle and carefully
raises her sons, has through them ruled the
world. But shall not our daughters be taught
also, and have just as many privileges as our
sons? Most assuredly. We can look around
us and see many of our sisters who have to
struggle with the hard realities of life. Some
of them are widows, some of them chose never
to marry. They own property, either much
or little, on which they must pay taxes for the
support of the government, both local and
general. Yet they must never have a voice in
the choice of that government's servants.
Woman suffrage is a live question before all
thinking minds and many nations to-day.
Think for a moment of the prospect confront-
ing our own government welcoming as it does
the down-trodden and oppressed of every clime
to its shores. This emigration brings many
who are utterly ignorant of the first true
principles of government. Scheming politi-
cians can buy this vote, also the average negro
vote, for a very small sum of money. This
has conduced to much of the corruption exist-
ing to-day. You can see that when woman
gains the ballot, and we regain our ballot, her
vote, given intelligently and wisely, will offset
the vote of ignorance and fraud. God speed
the day.
	Prof. James E. Talmage following Mrs.
Alder in a short address, said:
	The feelings that animate my mind on this
occasion are peculiar indeed. This is owing

[Column 2]

in some degree doubtlessly to the nature of the
audience, but more especially to the wide in-
terest, and the far-reaching importance of the
topic of the day. I say "far-reaching import-
ance," intentionally, and with no idle meaning
attached to the words; for it is certain that the
problem to which this honorable association is
seeking a proper solution, is of interest to the 
human race at large.
	My humble opinions upon the matter are of
a simple and commonplace kind; but not, I
trust, insincere or immature on that account.
The conclusions at which I have arrived in the
consideration of the subject are based upon no
comparison of legal political advantages or
disadvantages likely to result from conferring
the rights of suffrage upon woman; but upon
the justice of her claims to these rights as wit-
nessed by the word of the Almighty. Man, in
his studied wisdom, has learned this great
lesson of Nature—that the Creator has fitted
every object of His care to the purpose of its
being. Is it then to be thought that woman is
less completely endowed with the capacities of 
her calling than is man for his? It has been
often said that woman, in the sphere allotted
to her existence, is as perfect as man. I would
say in place of this, that in her sphere woman
is as much the superior of man as does man
excel in his proper powers. Nature has been
as liberal in endowing woman—Jehovah's
daughter—as in blessing man—His son.
	The objections that have been raised to the
enfranchisement of women in this land of repub-
lican freedom are mostly based  upon the fear
of the incapacity of women for the offices and
stern duties of citizenship. If these fears
appeared to have  solid foundation, I, too,
would be loth to witness such a change. It
has been wisely said here to-day, that the home
is woman's kingdom; and I feel sincerely that
the true woman, reigning in her home as a
queen, will prove too deeply interested in the
affiars of that sacred domain to desert the
throne in any endeavor for political preferment.
We may repose implicit conficence in womanly
nature; and never need we fear feminine as-
pirations toward positions unfitted for woman's
capacity.
	That the giving of suffrage to woman would
change much of the state at present existiug in
the politics of the day, I have no doubt, but
for such a change I most sincerely hope. My
greatest regret is that woman has to plead and
beg for that which rightly belongs to her. She
is affected by the laws equally with man, and it
is just that her voice should be as willingly
heard as his in the choice of the law-makers
and officials to execute the laws.
	God speed the day when woman shall have
her heaven born rights.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougall then read an open letter
from the Association to the ladies of America,
and Mrs. Nellie Little read, very effectively,
a synopsis of the speech of Judge Jere Wilson,
which was listened to with marked attention.
	The eloquent speech of Delegate Mrs. Emily
S. Richards, which was given before the Na-
tional Woman's Suffrage Association Conven-
tion at Washington, D. C., was read by Mrs.
Charlotte I Kirby.
	Mr. James T. Cobb, being called upon, re-
sponded in a very acceptable speech on woman
suffrage.
	The meeting then adjourned.
		CORNELIA H. CLAYTON, Secretary.


Feburary 7th, Senator Blair, of the com-
mittee on Woman suffrage, reported back
favorably the joint resolution proposing a con-
stitutional amendment to prohibit the denial
or abridgement of the right to vote by the
United States or any state on account of sex.
It was placed on the calendar; Sen. Cockrell
said a minority report would be made here-
after.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A PRAYER.

TO THOSE WHO MOURN.

God of our fathers, comfort the weary-hearted,
	Heal up the bitter pain
Of those who mourn their departed;

Whose sad eyes turn to the vacant chair,
	To the place unfilled at the table,
And calm Thou their wild despair.

Turn Thou their gaze utno Thee, 
	From the sad earth where sleeps their departed;
Help them, oh, help them to see

Through the vail to the dawn of that Day,
	Unto the City, the Golden—
Where earth-woes have all passed away.

And, oh, unto Thee do I pray,
	For those who can point to no grave stone
As cause of their deep darkened way,

Illumine the gloom with Thy Spirit, 
	Give peace where now agonies reign,
And redeem from the woes we inherit.

God of Thy children below,
	Father, Redeemer and King,
Help us Thy hand e'er to know;

And in all of the perils of life
	To cling to Thine Anchor of love,
To guide through the billows of strife.

Unto the haven of rest—
	Even that City—the Golden—
The home of the Ransomed and blest.
		HOPE.


FRIENDSHIP.

TO MRS. AURELIA S. ROGERS.

There are many friends in springtime,
	When the air is pure and sweet;
When the roses blossom round you,
	And the lilies at your feet.
How they seek to win your favor,
	Gain your approbative smile,
And with words and deeds of kindness,
	Your fond, loving heart beguile.

There are many friends in summer,
	When prosperity abounds;
When kind fortune smiles upon you,
	And the air with praise resounds;
How you gaze at them and wonder
	Who'll be firm and true to trust,
Who will stand the test of friendship,
	Who will say thy cause is just.

When the stormy clouds of autumn
	In the horizon appear,
Friends false and faint and fickle,
	One by one will disappear;
Let them go, false friends,
	For such friends are worse than none,
In an hour when most they're needed:
	There you look, and lo' they're gone.

But the friend that is true in winter,
	When the frosty, chilling blast
Wraps its icy mantle round you,
	That is friendship that will last.
Such a friend is like a jewel,
	Inlaid in pearl and cased in gold;
Time, nor dust, nor heat will change them
	And like diamonds, they'll not mould.

And though earthly friends may wander
	Far away in time of need,
There is one who rules in heaven,
	He is a friend, a friend indeed.
Ferns may fade and roses wither,
	Leaves decay and mosses die;
But if you will retain his favor,
	You will to victory soar on high.

		LUCY A. CLARK.
Farmington.


[Column 1]

WOMAN AND HER SPHERE.

	Woman and her sphere is a theme that has
agitated the minds of thinking men and women
of all ages, but because of the darkness that
has covered the earth, there is a great diversity
of opinion regarding this matter—the proper
sphere of woman—and we find that in this,
as well as other great subjects which effect the
welfare and happiness of the human race,
great mistakes have been made; when, if man-
kind had only been willing to accept the sim-
ple laws of God, which said in the beginning,
"She shall be a helpmate for man," there
would have been no need for controversy on
the subject, for woman would have stood where
the great Father designed she should—at the
head of her family, side by side with man, his
equal and companion, neither aspiring to su-
premacy on the one hand, nor abjectly feeling
herself an inferior or a slave. The question
may be asked, "Is she inferior to man in physi-
cal strength?" She may be in some respects,
while in others her more refined and delicate
organization is peculiarly adapted to the part
she was designed to play in the creations of
God, and among whatever people the refining
influence of woman is most felt, there will be
found the most worthy and noble men; for is
she not a wife and mother? and a truly virtu-
ous woman is a crown to her husband; her
children rise up and call her blessed, and she
is neither degraded as an inferior or regarded
as a plaything; and were it not that the world
have wandered far from God, woman would
stand in the dignity and purity of her woman-
hood, and desire to fill no other position than
that which an alwise Creator designed for her.
And man instead of seeking to lower or de-
grade her, would cherish and respect her as
the brightest jewel and greatest blessing a bene-
ficent Father had bestowed upon him.
	Nor have instances been wanting in which
women have played an important part in the
history of nations. We will pass by the many
instances recorded in profane history in which
women have distinguished themselves in states-
manship and sometimes as warriors, when they
sometimes saved a state and led armies to
victory. Although many such instances might
be enumerated, we pass them by and turn to
the Scriptures of eternal truth, where we read
of Miriam, who was a prophetess; of Deborah,
who judged and led the armies of Israel; of
Esther who took her life in her hands to make
intercession for her people, saying, "I will go
unto the king, and if I perish I perish;" but
more particularly in the New Testament do we
find an Elizabeth who received the ministra-
tion of angels; of Mary, who was counted
worthy to became the mother of the Holy
One; of Anna, a holy woman, a prophetess,
who departed not from the temple, but served
God day and night. It was a woman who
oftenest ministered to the wants of the Son of
God, who believed in and followed Him; but
it was not a woman who betrayed Him.
Women were last at the cross and first at the
sepulchre, and it was to a woman that He first
revealed Himself after His resurrection, and
honored by sending with a message to His dis-
ciples with the joyfal tidings that He had risen
from the dead; and oh! how Mary's bleeding
heart must have rejoiced. And if woman was
the first, by reason of her transgression of the
law to bring the penalty of death into the
world, she was also the first to receive the glad
news that Christ had arisen from the dead, if
not to understand that through His death and
sufferings the original sin of our first parents
had been atoned for, and through His resur-
rection He had obtained the keys of death and
hell, and opened the door whereby we could,
by obedience to the laws of the Gospel, once
more enter the presence of the Father.
	Thus we find that woman has often been

[Column 2]

honored of God; and woe! be to man if he
cannot give a good account of his dealing with
her, who often remains faithful to him through
evil as well as good report, and will minister
to his wants when all others have forsaken him;
and when prostrated with pain, sickness or
sorrow, it is woman who helps him bear his
burdens; it is her soothing hand that lulls the
pain of his aching head, wipes the chilling
dews of death from his brow, and weeps over
him when all others have departed.
	But woman shines brightest in her sphere as
a mother, and to her was the first promise
given of a future Messiah; that notwithstand-
ing she should bring forth children in pain
and sorrow, it was through her seed that the
head of the old serpent should receive a deadly
bruise; and how anxiously women of olden
times desired children; perhaps each one may
have secretly cherished the hope in her heart,
that she may have been the one honored above
all others and the mother of the promised
Savior.
	We believe that in these latter days woman
must still play an important part, and it will
be found that she is still as willing to make
sacrifice for the sake of establishing what she
believes to be the principles of truth and
righteousness in the earth, as she was in olden
times to follow the scorned and persecuted
Savior to the foot of the cross; for it is a well-
known fact that when times of trial and perse-
cution have arisen women have always been
as willing to suffer as men, and even to lay
down their lives for conscience sake.
	Let the women of the latter days lift up
their heads and rejoice, for a brighter day for
woman is near at hand. Let them prepare
themselves, for the old days of thraldom, that
dwarfed their intellect and marred their use-
fulness are rapidly passing away. Let women
be true to themselves, and their power and in-
fluence will soon be felt in the land. Take a
stand against wickedness, in whatever shape it
may appear, for a great and glorious day for
woman is near at hand.
		PHEBE C. YOUNG.


EXTRACTS. 

	Mary Maynard, in her Washington letter to
the Woman's News, has some very witty para-
graphs; we quote the following in regard to
Harrison's Cabinet. —ED.
	"The Woman's Suffrage Convention has
come to be as certain a happening as the meet-
ing of Congress, and some of the people of
Washington have begun to mark the year by
the appearance of Miss Anthony and her fol-
lowers.  As the housekeeper unfolds her even-
ing paper she exclaims, 'Hellow, Miss Anthony
is here and Spring is coming.' And Washing-
ton has grown to have great respect for Miss
Anthony and her brave army.  It hopes it
will come long and come annually forever.
They fight an honest battle, they have won
great victories, and the future is full of promise.
Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake, one of their 
breeziest speekers, said, after satirizing mascu-
line political methods:  "There is a great curi-
osity as to who will be the members of Gen.
Harrison's Cabinet.  I'd like to present a few
names.' For Secretary of State she named
Elizabeth Cady Stanton; for Secretary of the
Treasury, Mrs. May Wright Sewall; for Secre-
tary of War, our great fighting captain, Susan
B. Anthony; for Secretary of the Navy, Mrs.
Zerelda G. Wallace; for Secretary of the Inte-
rior, 'noble Clara Barton,' and for Attorney
General, Mrs. Laura De Force Gordon, of
California.  She maintained that a Cabinet
composed of that material would give Gen.
Harrison such advice and assistance that his
administration would be unparalled and above
criticism."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
    	SALT LAKE CITY.  UTAH.
	
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	FEBRUARY 15,1889.


[Column 1]

A NOBLE ENDEAVOR.

	There have been some heroic efforts made by
the "Mormon" people of Utah Territory towards
a state government, so as to give some local self-
government into the hands of those, who have
settled the country and subdued the soil, making
it fertile, whereas it was barren, and beautifying
the land, rendering it habitable, aed desirable for
man. The efforts made for statehood for Utah
are worthy the commendation of all who value
freedom, and who possess individuality in its
truest and broadest sense. To have some local
representation, and choose who shall administer
the laws is, we believe, American in principle,
but to tamely and without endeavor to obtain
statehood, submit to a Territorial form of govern-
ment, when every necessary condition has been
complied with, seems very un-American, and not
at all in harmony with the spirit of liberty that
characterized the forefathers of New England and
of this free Republic, of whose memory and
nobility of purpose, succeeding generations have
been justly proud.
	Yet it is said of this people that they are not
American, they are aliens, and cannot appreciate
the spirit of the Republican government. While
pleading and interceding for the very privileges
and rights which the grand old Constitution and
Declaration of Rights vouchsafes to all citizens,
they are accused of disloyalty, insincerity and
other treacheries, and denounced as hostile to the
laws of the nation.
	All the logic brought to bear upon the ques-
tion of statehood by Delegate Caine, Attorney
Richards, Judge Wilson and others who have
spoken, has so far failed to bring about the de-
sired blessing—statehood for Utah—on account
of the terrible prejudice against the "Mormons,"
which has arisen through misrepresentation,
malice and envy of those who style themselves
"Liberals."  The report of the "Hearings Before
the Committee on Territories in regard to the Ad-
mission of Utah as a State" is well worth reading,
and all fair-minded people not blinded by preju-
dice, may, by perusing the arguments made be-
come posted in reference to what has been done
to build up the country and the definite steps
taken to gain admittance to the Union as a State.
Both sides were presented at the hearings, and
consequently the reader has the main points in
favor of and against admission. However, it is
easy to see that it is the religion of the people
that these non-Mormons object to, or they make
it appear so. Yet they live under a government
tolerant in all its vital principles to all religious
faiths. Judge McBride does not pretend to
base his objections upon plural marriage, but
states, "I believe with other gentlemen that
polygamy must, by pressure from the outside
world, cease to exist in time." The Judge objects

[Column 2]

to a religion that enters into government. In all
ages of the world, whenever the Lord had any
great work to perform, objectors have risen up
against the methods of procedure used by Him.
There are plenty of instances of this kind on
record, yet He says His ways are not as man's
ways; and one might well say if there was more
of God in the governments of nations, there
would be less dissension and far less crime. The
"Mormon" people believe that the Constitution of
this Republic is God-given, and ask only to have
the same rights other men and women enjoy uu-
der its provisions.
	Rev. Olympia Brown, in her speech in the re-
cent Convention of the N. W. S. A. in Washing-
ton, seems to think it would be well to have the
Protestant religion represented in the government,
for she says, "We (the people of the United
States), are in danger of Catholic domination, not
because they are so numerous, but because the
Catholic Church is represented at the polls, and
the Protestant Church is not." She establishes
this fact by stating that, "The foreigners are
Catholics, the greater portion of them; the
foreigners are men, the greater part of them, and
the men of the Catholic Church are interested in
the Church, and they belong to it and they work
for it, and vote for it. "The Protestant Church is
composed of women. Men for the most part do
not belong to it. They do not care much for it,
except as a pious thing to interest the women of
their household. The consequence is, the Pro-
testant Church is unrepresented here.
And so when it comes to voting, the Protestant
Church is unrepresented."
	Now, it is astonishing that some one does not
intefere with the Catholic votes and voting, and
give them a test oath, as they have the "Mor-
mons," lest religion should get into the politics of
the nation. The Reverend lady from whom we
have quoted said some very plain things about
this great Republic, that if a "Mormon" had said
would be called treason; and she prophesied, too.
But perhaps they think "it was only a woman,"
and therefore do not heed it; but they are strong
expressions and worthy of solemn consideration.
Read them and judge.
	"We are tending toward ruin, and I predict
that if women are not enfranchised, and that right
speedily, there will be no Republic here in twenty-
five years. I do not believe that this Republic
can stand, with the voice of anarchy heard in our
great cities, with the hands of intelligent people
tied, motherhood disregarded, the social evil
rapidly fastening on our national life as a legalized
institution, with the increase of licentiousness and
intemperance. I believe that the day of ruin is at
hand for our institutions and government unless
the voice of our women is heard, and unless they
are called into the councils of the nation."
	Judge Wilson, in answer to His Excellency,
Gov. West, who had been energetically opposing
the admission of Utah to Statehood, emphatically
answers all the Governor's objections, and the
discussion between them is calculated to clearly
establish the claims of the Territory to self-gov-
ernment. Forty years of Territorial government
is a long period to serve in such a subordinate
capacity, and Utah most certainly is entitled to an
honorable place in the galaxy of states. The
population has long been sufficient, and all other
necessary conditions have been complied with,
and yet men who profess to believe in progression
for all humantty, and to possess the attributes of
charity, as well as justice and mercy, are using all
their powers of persuasion with tongue and pen,
and whatever social or political influence they are
capable of exercising, to hinder the people of the
Territory from obtaining their just rights.
	The same Reverend lady from whom we quoted
previously, speeking of woman's disfranchisement
exclaimed, "Whose country is this? Who made

[Column 3]

this country? Who have periled their lives for
this country?"
	In view of the anxiety of certain men to ex-
clude the people of Utah from obtaining state-
hood, to which they are justly and morally entitled,
those who have helped to make this desert blos-
som as the rose," who came here when it was a
barren waste, and who know, as the writer does,
that Salt Lake City was not a "meadow with tall
grass waving," etc., can scarcely help feeling
their indignation somewhat roused when they read
and when they hear such mis-statements as have
been made before the Committee on Territories;
and they feel like exlaiming, if they don't,
"Whose Territory is this? Who made this Terri-
tory?" The "Mormon" men wjio came here at
an early day, had some hard work to do, and
much privation to endure and perils to encounter,
and the "Mormon" women rocked their babies
where the wolves howled and the Indians pow-
wowed in their hearing, and endured all sorts of
trial and hardships, as well as poverty, in order to
build up the country,subdue the soil and establish
homes, not only for themselves, but for those who
should come after them.
	There is nothing lost in such a vigorous contest
as has been made for the right. The great men
of the nation and the wise are becoming.informed
upon matters that were unknown to them hereto-
fore; they are getting down to the bed rock of
Mormonism, and little by little are becoming ac-
quainted with this "peculiar people" and their
principles, and by and by they will be willing and
ready as well as anxious to acknowledge them as
a part of the' great body politic, and until then the
people of Utah who desire statehood must sub-
mit with what grace is possible to the persistent
refusal of Congress to acknowledge their rights to
a state' government.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 
	THE Secretaries of the Relief Society in this
Stake of Zion are hereby particularly requested
to prepare correct semi-annual reports, and for-
ward them not later than the 25th of February,
to the Stake Secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard,
No. 60, Fourth South St., Salt Lake City, in order
that a full and complete report may be made in
time for the Stake Conference.  By order of Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne, President Relief Society, 
Salt Lake Stake.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the Y.
L. M. I. Associations is particularly anxious to
obtain correct semi-annual reports from each
Stake of Zion.  These should be forwarded so as
to reach her not later than March 10th, to
enable her to compile them in time for the General
Conference on April 6th.  Will the secretaries
of the several Stakes please send promptly to
Mary E. Cook, 323 East, Third South Street, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
	THE Stake secretaries of the Relief Society in
the various Stakes of Zion are urgently requested
to prepare semi-annual Stake reports and forward
them, so that they will reach this city on or before
the 20th of March, in order that a complete re-
port may be furnished the General Conference in
April.  Direct to Dr. Romania B. Pratt, corner
2nd West and First South Streets, Salt Lake
City.  By order of Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion will be held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday, March 14,
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.  A representa-
tive from each branch Society in the County is
particularly requested, and a cordial invitation is
extended to all who are interested in the work of
the organization.  The Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake will meet in conference Friday, March 15,
and the Primary Association Saturday, the 16th.


A full representation from each Association is
very desireable at both these conferences.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the
Primary Associations is desirous of obtaining a
full report from each Stake of Zion for the com-
plete report to be prepared in time for the Apirl
Conference, and this semi-annual report should
be ready ten days before, or about the 25th of
March.  Consequently the reports from all points
ought to be in the hands of the Secretary as
early as the 10th of March at the latest, which
would give her then only two weeks time to pre-
pare them.  It is a very important thing, and the
Presidents of Primary Associations in the several 
Stakes of Zion, should see that this matter is
properly attended to, both as to correct figures
and statements and date of sending.  Forward
the Stake reports to Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton,
No. 115 Third Street, Salt Lake City.
	MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS, the delegate from
Utah to the Annual Convention of the N. W. S. A.
at Washington, D.C., returned home Wednesday
evening, Feb. 13.  She gives a pleasing account
of her association with the leading ladies of the
suffrage movement, and withal feels glad of the
success which seems to have attended her efforts
in behalf of representation for Utah, and is hope-
ful for the future. Mrs. Richards will probably
give us something definite concerning her work
there, and her views in reference to the interests of
suffrage before we issue another paper, and will
most likely speak in public before that time, and
we shall be pleased to publish such notes. Her
speech in another part of the paper, will meet the
approbation of all suffrage women, and they will
certainly feel she must have made a good im-
pression in their favor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


N. W. S. A.

	At the third Executive session of the National
Woman Suffrage Association, which was held in
the parlors of the Riggs House, Washington, D.
C., Thursday afternoon, Jan. 24, Mrs. Sewall for
the Committee on Constitution and By-laws, re-
ported. We have not room in this issue for the
whole, but will publish the By-laws in the next
number of the paper.  Following is the Constitu-
tion adopted.—ED.

CONSTITUTION.

	ARTICLE I.—The name of this Association
shall be "The National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion."
	ARTICLE II.—The object of this Association
shall be to secure protection in their right to vote
to the women citizens of the United States by
appropriate National and State legislation.
	ARTICLE III.—Section 1.—All citizens of the
United States, subscribing to this Constitution
and paying not less than one dollar annually into
the treasury of this Association, shall become
members thereof, and shall be entitled to attend
all its meetings, to participate in all discussions
that may arise and to receive Reports and other
documents published by it.
	Section 2.—The payment of fifty dollars ($50,00)
into the treasury of this Association shall consti-
tute any citizen of the United States a life mem-
ber of the Association, with all the privileges be-
longing to regular annual members.
	ARTICLE IV.—Section I.—The officers of this
Association shall be a President, Vice-President
at Large, a Recording Secretary, a Correspond-
ing Secretary, a Treasurer, a Chairman of the
executive committee and two Auditors. The
officers named in this section shall be nominated
by an informal ballot at a business session of the
Annual Convention of the Association. The
three persons receiving the highest number of
votes for any office, shall be considered the nomi-
nees of the Convention for that office, and the will


of the Association shall be taken by a formal bal-
lot.
	Section 2.—Wherever state and territorial Asso-
ciations auxiliary to the National Woman Suffrage
Association exist, the Presidents of such Associa-
tions shall be considered Vice-Presidents of the
National Association, representing therein their
respective states and territories.
	Section 3.—Each State or Territorial auxiliary
Association shall elect from its membership one
person to serve on the Executive Committee of
the National Association.
	Section 4.—The President of the National
Woman Suffrage Association shall appoint a Vice-
President to represent on its Executive Board,
any State or Territory where no state or territorial
association exists auxiliary to the National Asso-
ciation.
	Section 5.—The officers enumerated in the pre-
ceding sections of this article shall constitute the
Executive Committee of this Association: of
these officers fifteen shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business.
	Section 6.—The Executive Committee shall
elect annually from the veterans of our cause, ten
or more Honorary Vice-Presidents.
	ARTICLE V.—This Constitution may be
amended by a majority vote, at any annual meet-
ing, notice of the amendment having been given
at any preceding annual meeting.


DEATH OF A VETERAN SISTER.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I feel it my duty to write you and acquaint you
with the death of our beloved sister, Eliza C.
Hall, of Garden City, who died Dec. 19th, 1888.
I should have written sooner, but have been hin-
dered by sickness, trouble and death in the family.
Sister Eliza had been sick a long time with head 
and heart trouble, which finally terminated in
dropsy. She went to sleep on the night of the
18th and never woke; she passed away quietly in
her sleep without a struggle.
	She was the daughter of Phineas and Irene
Churchill Cook; was born in the Town of Goshen,
County of Litchfield, and State of Connecticut,
July 7th, 1811, She was married to Salmon C.
Hall about the year 1832, and moved to Michigan
in 1835 or 1836, where she heard the Gospel
preached, and joined the Church in the year 1842.
She was the mother of two children, a son and a
daughter; neither they nor their father joined the
Church, but she remained with her husband until
the year 1873, when she came to this place and
has remained here ever since.
	Sister Hall has done a great deal of good in the
capacity of a doctor among the people here. She
always stood ready with a kind word and a willing
hand for all who were in need of her assistance.
She was greatly beloved, and her loss is deeply
felt by all who knew her.
	She leaves a large circle of relatives and friends,
who miss her sadly, but we cannot wish her back,
for she had lived to a good old age, and it was
her wish to go to rest. She died in full faith of a
glorious resurrection. The last few days of her
life she was supremely happy, thanking and prais-
ing God for His goodness and mercy continually.
	Will you please give space in your highly prized
paper for this letter? She was always a sub-
scriber, and also an interested reader of the EX-
PONENT, until a short time previous to her death.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		ANN E. COOK.


IN MEMORIAM.
Died, at the residence of her son, near Elba,
Cassia Co., Idaho, on Nov. 13th, 1888, of pneu-
monia, Nancy H. Clark, wife of Ezra T. Clark,


of Farmington, Davis Co., Utah.  She was born 
in Virginia, Trumball Co., Ohio, August 8, 1825.  
	She was the daughter of Sanford and Nancy 
Porter. Her parents joined the Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1831, and moved to 
Jackson Co., Missouri, in 1832; was baptized in 
Jackson Co. when eight years old, in 1833.  The 
same year the Saints were driven from that Co., 
sharing in the sufferings of that memorable perse-
cution for religion's sake, their persecutors being 
citizens of this glorious land of the free, etc., yet 
their wicked actions will ere long be looked upon 
with the same contempt as the Christian world 
now view the similar treatment of the ancient be-
lievers of the meek and lowly Jesus.  
	She came to Utah in 1847; has always been an 
earnest worker and firm believer in the principles 
of the everlasting Gospel, taking a leading part 
in the different organizations; was President of 
the Y. L. M. I. Associations of Davis Stake 
about five years, when she was chosen to preside 
over the Relief Society of the Stake, in which 
position she acted until she was called to labor in 
the Logan Temple in March, 1885, where she has 
been a diligent worker until within a few weeks 
of her death, when she was released to go on a 
visit to her son.  While going there she contracted 
a violent cold, which resulted in her death.
	She always manifested in her labors that meek 
and unselfish disposition characteristic of a true 
Saint of God, charity for all being one of her 
leading virtues.  
	The Bible promise, as recorded in Luke xiv, 17, 
that those who believed should speak in new 
tongues, has been verified many times through 
her speaking in tongues, the gift being given to 
her before she was eight years old.  
	The funeral services were held in the Farming-
ton meeting house.  The casket was carried from 
her late residence to the meeting house by the 
authorities of the ward, followed by the Relief 
Society and Y. L. M. I. A. in procession.  The 
meeting house was beautifully decorated with 
flowers brought by the young ladies.  Appropri-
ate remarks were made by Elder James T. Smith, 
Patriarch J. H. Tippets and Prest. Anson Call. 
	She had three sons, one daughier and twenty 
grandchildren.  A large concourse of relatives
and friends followed her remains to their last 
resting place.  
	MARY S. CLARK.


THE NORTH LONDON LADIES' RELIEF
SOCIETY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The President of the above Society has desired
me to write you a brief account of the work ac-
complished by it since its reorganization up till
the close of 1888.
	The Society was reorganized on March 9th,
1884, with Helen Bradford, President; Frances
Cornell and Frances Jennings, Counselors; Caro-
line Parratt, Secretary; Helen Bradford, Treas-
urer.
	Since that time, however, the First Counselor
has emigrated to Utah, and Sister Jennings now
holds that position, and Sister M. E. Scoles has
been chosen Second Counselor. The Secretary
has been succeeded by Elizabeth Bush, who also
emigrated to Utah in October last, and that posi-
tion is at present vacant.
	392 visits have been paid, and 62£ 9 shillings
and 4 1/2 pence has been given to the poor. The
Elders have been assisted to the amount of 25£,
11 shillings and 3 1/2 pence. This is for rent of
room and food. The attendance has been very
small, the usual number present not exceeding
six lately, although we have a number of names
on the books. The Saints are scattered, and
many too poor to travel, and the means at our
command very limited.
	The continued emigration and consequent loss


of members account for this to some extent, but
we are striving to use what we have to the best
advantage. We may say though few in number 
the spirit of unity prevails, and all work harmoni-
ously together, and have great joy in their labors. 
The Society is doing its best, and there are no
hard feelings among us. The Elders meet with 
the sisters from time to time, and much valuable
counsel is given and cherished. 
	It has been the President's wish, and the sisters
have so far carried it out to the best of their
ability, that when visiting we should go into the
different homes, not with a prying curiosity, or a
patronizing air, but with true sisterly feelings and
sympathy in our hearts for the sufferings and
sorrows of others. We have endeavored to carry
relief and the precious truths we are in possession 
of together into the houses of those we visit, and
rich is the reward when we hear and see what
happiness follows. There is a luxury above all 
others in this world, and it is the exquisite luxury
of doing good to our fellow creatures, although
we may be only messengers, only carriers, only
instruments in the hands of others, there is one
sight seen of us that few others ever see—
the grateful look, the eloquent tear, and the fer-
vent "God bless you!" In the first blush of sur-
prise and thankfulness lies our reward and the
reward of the benevolent also. 
	We desire to go on with this work and lighten
many hearts and cheer many homes, and trust
that means will ever be in our hands to give to 
the needy and sick and afflicted, and health to 
carry on this noble work. 
	Your sister in the Gospel, 
	M. E. SCOLES, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EMINENT WOMEN.

II.

	We talk a great deal in this age, of origin-
ality and individuality, but circumstances and
opportunities have much to do with both. In
a general way we find men and women possess
the characteristics of the time to which they
belong. Thus we speak of remarkable persons
as the best types of the period in which they
lived. There are many elements that enter
into the formation of character. The physical 
condition of the country itself, the pursuits in-
cident to the time and place, and other con-
siderations which belong to the period of one's
existence have much to do with the lives of
individuals.
	In writing of the Mesdames Montague, I
have in my mind a sort of historical panorama,
or bird's eye view of the condition of society
in England at the time, and I esteem these
ladies as representative women of their day,
and instead of wondering why they did not
maintain the intellectual equality of the sexes,
as exceptional women do in our day, I simply
admire them for doing what they could to
elevate woman socially and educationally.
This is essentially woman's era, and the wise
understand why.
	In some respects Elizabeth Montague (or as
she is often termed, the other Montague), was
more illustrious that her predecessor, Lady
Mary, though she never gained a title. Her
maiden name was Robinson, and she was born
in 1720. Elizabeth was educated with great
care, under the tuition of Dr. Congers Middle-
ton, a celebrated English divine. According
to her letters written previous to her marriage,
she was on intimate terms with some of the
nobility. She must have been very lively, for
she writes to the Duchess of Portland, describ-
ing "an assembly to which they drove eight
miles every full moon and danced till twelve."
"I must tell your Grace, that my papa forgets
twenty years and nine children, and dances as
nimbly as any of the quorum; but is now and
then mortified by hearing the ladies cry, 'Old

[Column 2]

Mr. Robinson! Haysides and turn your
daughter.' Other ladies who have a mind to
appear young say, 'Well! there is my poor
grandpa, he could no more dance so!' Then
comes an old bachelor of fifty, and shakes
him by the hand and cries, 'Why, you dance
like one of us young fellows;' another more in
judicious than the rest, says by way of compli-
ment, 'Who would think you had six fine
children taller than yourself? I protest if I
did not know you, I should take you to be
young.' Then says the most antiquated virgin
in the company, 'Mr. Robinson wears mighty
well; my mother says he looks as well as ever
she remembers him; he used to come often to 
the house when I was a girl.' " Mr. Robinson
married at the early age of eighteen, and
might not perhaps have been at this time more
than forty, although he had some fine tall
children. We have given our readers this
little passage that they may have an idea of
Elizabeth's early life.
	Miss Robinsou married a man of wealth,
and subsequently obtained "the reputation of
a woman of learning." Indeed, she was quite
a power in her day, and drew around her a
circle of learned and influential people of cul-
ture, who were anxious to be considered in Mrs.
Montague's set.

"Great souls by instinct to each other turn,
Demand alliance, and in friendship burn."

	Even Johnson, with whom she had been on
intimate terms, in alluding to her, said: "Mrs.
Montague has dropped me. Now, sir, there
are people whom one should like very well to
drop, but would not wish to be dropped by."
Among her contemporaries we find Johnson,
Boswell, Walpole, Mrs. Thrale and Miss
Burney (Madame d'Arbley), who all belonged
to her coterie, and were entertained in splendor
at her house, which Horace Walpole calls "a
palace and a noble edifice." Walpole writes
that in the morning she breakfasted seven hun-
dred people. Miss Burney speaks of being
present at one of her breakfasts when there
were between four and five hundred guests at
the table. Besides these magnificent break-
fasts, and surpassing them in grandeur, her
whole house was thrown open occasionally for
great gatherings, or parties. But the most
choice entertainments she gave were smaller
parties in her drawing-room, where only "peo-
ple of consequenct" assembled. These were
the friends she made a point of cultivat-
ing. At these parties it was customary
to form a semi-circle around the fire, which
would remain unbroken during the entire
evening. The hostess usually sat at one end
of the circle, elegantly attired and brilliant
with diamonds, and on one side of her, the
person of the highest rank, and on the other,
the one most eminent in literature.

"'Tis true (as the old proverb doth relate),
Equals with equals often congregate."

	George, Lord Littleton, was a warm admirer
of this talented lady. It is stated she assisted
him in the composition of his "Dialogues of 
the Dead."
	At the time of her great popularity, her
manner was very stately and dignified, as be-
came one so distinguished in the highest rank
of wealth and literature.
	Elizabeth Montague was known and desig-
nated as the "queen of the blues." Scribblers
are indebted to this lady for the appelation
blue-stocking. She formed a literary society
known as the Blue-Stocking Club; the name
originated from the circumstance of a gentle-
man, who was a member, constantly wearing
stockings of that color, and has ever since been
applied to women who affect literature. We
must recollect that those were the palmy days
of knee breeches; consequently the color of
one's hose was a matter of taste in a man's ap-

[Column 3]

pearance, quite as much as the color of his
necktie, or any other item of his costume. We
have to thank Mrs. Montague for giving
literary women a title. But this is not the
only peculiarity for which she is famous. She
invariably gave an annual dinner on May day
to all the chimney-sweepers of the metropolis,
in honor of her kinsman, Edward Wortley
Montague, who was for some time a chimney-
sweep. There must have been some excellent
qualities of heart, joined with humility, under-
lying her pride and love of magnificence,
which prompted her to observe regularly this
commendable custom; and to remember in such
a substantial manner, the poor chimney-sweepers
of London, and also to perpetuate in the minds
of all the world her plebeian ancestor.
	Her remarkable gift of conversation, which
was really her strong point, by means of which
she drew around her all the elite of that age
of critics, would designate her in the nineteenth
century as a magnetic woman, which no doubt
she was. Johnson said of her to his friend
Boswell: "She diffuses more knowledge in her
conversation than any woman I know, and in-
deed almost more than any man." Mrs. Thrale
replied, "I declare, I know no man equal to
her, take away yourself and Burke, for that
art." Some critics and reviewers, in alluding
to her, have said: "It is difficult to believe,
from anything Mrs. Montague has left in writ-
ing, that her conversation deserved the high
praise Johnson bestowed upon it."

Who shall dispute what the reviewers say?
Their word's sufficient; and to ask a reason
In such a state as their's is downright treason.

	The critics cut and thrust at her "Essay on 
Shakespeare," although they acknowledge that
at the time it was written it was supposed to
do honor, not only to the author herself, but
to Shakespeare. Her "Letters" afford better
reading, in their estimation, particularly those
addressed to Lord Littleton, in which, says the
editor, "She displays the full strength of her
wings,"
	Mrs. Montague, unlike many women of
"brilliant parts," did not outlive her popularity,
although most of her old-time friends had
passed away before her. She died A. D. 1800,
at the age of eighty years. There are many
interesting little episodes in her life which are
well worth recounting, but time and space will
not now permit.
		AUNT EM.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of ladies' conference, held at St.
Charles, Jan 12th and 13th, 1889. After the
usual devotional exercises, the branches of the
Relief Society were reported verbally by their
respective presidents and representatives.
	Prest. J. P. Lindsay then addressed the con-
gregation on the subject of storing grain and
setting good examples. Her remarks through-
out were fraught with interest, and were dic-
tated by the Holy Spirit.
	The next speaker, Sister Sarah I. Holmes,
felt grateful to God for the many blessings we
enjoy, and for the privileges we have of meet-
ing together from time to time, and being in-
structed in His ways. Set forth the duties of
the members of the associations.
	She was followed by Sister Annie Laker,
who dwelt at some length upon the responsi-
bilities of parents, and gave some excellent ad-
vice to mothers, which will doubtless be appre-
ciated by all who heard it.
	Coun. L. M. Hart felt grateful that she had
been permitted to live to see the ushering in of
a new year; hoped to be able to live nearer to
God in the future than she had done in the past,
and to be prepared to do more in assisting to
build up the kingdom of our God.


[Column 1]

	The choir sang. Benediction was offered by
Elder C. A. Murkley.
	Sunday, Jan. 13th, 2 p.m.: The opening
exercises were attended to, and Prest. Lindsay
again took the stand, and spoke for a short
time impressively on different subjects pertin-
ent to our belief.
	Prest. James H. Hart was pleased to meet
with his brethren and sisters. Said, "The
Gospel is being preached for the last time, and
the day is fast approaching when 'every knee
must bow and every tongue confess that Jesus
is the Christ' All who expect to be saved in
the kingdom of our God must be faithful to
the end. We are called upon, and may still
be, to pass through trials for the truth's sake,
and some may indeed be required to lay down
their lives in defense of its principles." Ex-
horted the people to faithfulness in serving
God and keeping His commandments.
	The names of the Stake and local officers
were presented by Prest. Geo. Osmond and sus-
tained by the conference in their various posi-
tions.
	Conference was adjourned till the second
Saturday and Sunday in July. Singing by
the choir, and Prayer by Bishop J. A. Hunt.
		L. M. RICH, Secretary.

CASSIA STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of the Cassia Stake con-
vened in conference at Oakley, Dec. 21, 1888.
Present on the stand, Prest. Louisa Haight,
with Counselors E. Tuttle and A. Wilson,
Bros. H. D. Haight and M. Pickett of Stake
Presidency, Bro. Robert Wilson, also presi-
dents of the various branches of the Relief
Society. Conference opened with singing and
prayer. Opening remarks by Prest. Louisa
Haight. Minutes of preceding conference
read and accepted. Satisfactory reports of
the ward organizations were listened to.
	Prest. Louisa Haight advised the teachers
not to put off visiting their ward until the last
day. Said, "There are many temporal duties,
but they should be so arranged as to give time
for spiritual ones; it is useless to spend our
whole time drudging for the things of the
earth, which we cannot take with us."
	Bro. Moroni Pickett then spoke at some
length in an instructive manner; said the sis-
ters in their deeds of charity should think of
what the Savior said: "Inasmuch as ye do it
unto one of these, ye do it unto me."
	Coun. Elizabeth Tuttle wondered how the
sisters could miss the enjoyable time of confer-
ence. Said, "Mothers are the educators of their
children; they could do much to have honest
men, or they could neglect the teaching and
let them wander away.
	Coun. Ann Wilson knew of no comfort out-
side of the Gospel. Wondered how the doc-
trines taught in the world could be called true
religion. Spoke of the duty resting upon the
Society of visiting the sick. Adjourned till 2
p.m.
	Afternoon session: Opened by singing and
prayer.
	Bro. Cyrus Tolman: "It is said we should
cry unto the Lord to have care over our flocks,
for food and raiment, etc., but further it is
said, 'If ye look not after the poor it cometh
to nothing.' Our religion is vain if we are not
willing to deal out our substance for the com-
fort of the poor."
	Sister Clara Smith bore a strong testimony;
knew the Gospel to be the only plan that
could bring us back to our Heavenly Father.
	Bro. Jacob Daley said, "The Snints are im-
bued with the spirit of gathering, that they
may prepare and teach a rising generation for
future usefulness. They are engaged in a
work calculated to exalt, if the teachings of
the prophets are adhered to."

[Column 2]

	Sister Priscilla Worthing was the next
speaker; said, "The duty of the Society is to
help the poor and the sick, and not to help
furnish temples or build meeting houses."
	Bishop A. G. Smith, of Marion, spoke con-
cerning teaching by example; attending con-
ference, and being a gain to endure persecu-
tion.
	Remarks by Louisa Pickett. followed by
Bishop J. T. Smith, of Oakley, who said, "Our
mission should begin at home. Children
should be able to see that their fathers had re-
spect for their mothers. As a people we have
neglected to cultivate refinement; we should
ever appear as true ladies and gentlemen."
	Stake authorities presented and sustained.
Instructions from Bro. H. D. Haight, Stake
President. Conference adjourned for three
months.
		LOUISA PICKETT, Sec.

TOOELE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations of Tooele Stake,
which convened in the Tooele meeting house,
Dec. 8th and 9th, 1888, Prest. Mary A. Hunter
presiding. There were present from Salt Lake
City, Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Bathsheba
W. Smith.
	Sister Hunter made some opening remarks,
and some verbal reports of the wards were
given, showing each branch Society to be in a
prosperous condition, except the small settle-
ments, which need to be encouraged in their
meetings and association one with another; some
have become lukewarm in attending to their
duties.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young gave some very
good and interesting instructions to all, and to
mothers especially, and spoke by the Spirit of
God. Said, "Mothers have a great work to
do and a great mission to fill in raising up
their children in a proper manner. Our child-
ren who are obedient to the Gospel are a great
and shining light, and we should be very care-
ful to set a good example before them, so that
they may walk in our footstep." Gave much
valuable advice, which I hope we shall all fol-
low out.
	Sister B. W. Smith said, "I am pleased to
meet with my brethren and sisters this morning;
desire the faith and prayers of all, that what I
say may be a benefit to some one, for we meet
together to do each other good. We all have
our troubles and weaknesses, but I feel that
the Relief Society is a blessing, and if we do
our duty we shall get our reward, and know
that this is the kingdom of God." The
speaker prayed that we might all do our duty
and come off victorious. "The Sunday School
is a great blessing, and parents should go with
their children and see that they behave proper-
ly." Encouraged the sisters in their every day
duties, and made other remarks calculated to
do good.
	The choir sang.  Dismissed by R. Mickel-
john.
	In the afternoon Primary Conference con-
vened, when nearly all the time was occupied
with songs and recitations by the children,
which were very interesting, and they proved
that they had been well taught and instructed
by their President, Sister Bowen, and her
Counselors.
	In the evening the Young Ladies held their
Conference. They had prepared a short pro-
gramme, and then the sisters from Salt Lake
City gave them some very good instruction—
how to live every day, and to take care of their
health; several of the young men also spoke
at the conference.
	On Sunday morning the sisters met with the
Sunday School and made some very interest-
ing remarks, which were very much apprecia-
ted, and in the afternoon the Relief Society
met again, and the sisters from Salt Lake City

[Column 3]

addressed the congregation; also some of the
brethren, and they testified that the conference
had been a very interesting one throughout,
and that the good instructions that had been
given were by the Spirit of God and suited to
all.
	The conference adjourned for six months, to
be held in Grantsville.
		ANN TATE,
	Cor. Sec. Tooele Stake.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAIR AT ST. JOSEPH.

	Report of the Conjoint Fair of the Relief
Society, Y. L. and P. A, of the St. Joseph
Stake of Zion, which opened in Cluff's Hall,
Pima, Dec. 28, 1888.
	There was a very fine display of useful and
ornamental articles on exhibition; also quilts,
tidies, home-made carpets and rugs, all being
worthy of praise.
	A fine representation of statuary, including
a large bust of President Brigham Young,
which attracted much attentien; also a display
of seri-culture, millinery, etc. The Graham
and Curtis wards have made some very nice
straw hats, that should be worn with pride, ac-
cording to the instructions and teachings of
the late President B. Young.
	 We hope to be able to award prizes at our
next fair, when the agricultural department of
the Gila Valley will receive the attention of
the committee, as we had on exhibition the
finest of corn raised from the second crop
after barley was harvested in July; also turnips
weighing seven pounds, both raised by Bishop
John Taylor, of Pima, and sweet potatoes
weighing eleven pounds, raised by Bro. Frank
Owens.
	Although too late in the season for a display
of fruit, there was quite a variety of a superior
quality raised in the valley this year. We
have seen peaches measuring from nine to
eleven inches, and bunches of grapes weighing
from four to five pounds.
	We feel safe in predicting that this will
prove one of the finest fruit countries in the
west.
	Very respectfully,
		W. EAST, Prest.,
		L .GUSTAFSON, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Both branches of Congress have passed the
bill raising the age of protection for girls to
sixteen.
	Smith College, Mass., has received a gift of
$5,000 toward a gymnasium. The donor was
a woman.
	Mrs. Fayette C. Snead, whose newspaper name
was "Fay," died in Washington, D. C., Janu-
ary 24.
	Over one hundred and sixty women matri-
culated at a Philadelphia Woman's Medical
College last year.
	The Queen of Sweden has given a large do-
nation to the Dress Reform Society, to enable
them to open a store in Stockholm.
	Lady Sandhurst was elected to the London,
Eng., County Council at the late election. Mrs.
Gladstone in a letter seconded her election.
	The girl mail-carrier, of Oregon, whose
home is near Eugene City, bears the euphoni-
oua name of Minnie Westman.
	The Municipal Council of Paris has voted
500f. towards the expenses of the Woman's
Right's International Congress, to be held
there this year.


[Column 1]

	There are nearly three hundred women
studying at the Cooper Union Free Woman's
Art School in New York.
	A. W. C. T. U. Building Association has 
been organized in Ohio to erect a chapel, par-
lor and dining-room at Lake Side, the summer
Chautauqua of that State.
	It is one of the rules of Sorosis that no one
must act as president for more than three
years. Mrs. M. Louise Thomas's third term
expires this year, and there is much debate as
to who shall be her successor.
	A vote on woman suffrage was taken the
other day by the employes of the Cleveland
(O.) Ship-building Company. Of 125 me-
chanics who voted, 112 were in favor. The
thirteen who opposed it are foreigners, unable
to speak English.
	The women have no power as yet to vote ap-
propriations. But, since the women of Massa-
chusetts pay some millions of dollars in taxes
every year, a portion of the money raised by
taxing them might appropriately be applied to
paying the clerks who registered them-
	An attempt was lately made in the London
County Council to elect Sir Charles Dilke an
alderman of London. There was strong ob-
jection on account of his notorious morals.
When the caucus met, it was confronted with
a protest signed by 1,500 ladies, and the name
of Sir Charles was dropped.
	Ramabai is lecturing in Japan to great
audiences. In Tokio, the largest lecture hall
in the city was so crowded that the doors had
to be closed half an hour before the meeting
began, every inch of room being already occu-
pied. Ramabai, of course, speaks through an
interpreter.
	Madame Carnot is being attacked by a sec-
tion of the French press for having received
at the Elysee the famous explorer, Madame
Dieulafoy, in a divided skirt, or, as the opposi-
tion papers call it, in "the dress of a man."
This costume Madame Dieulafoy devised for
herself when superintending the excavations
made under the care of her husband and her-
self in Persia. The dress could not be mis-
taken for that of a man. It resembles more 
the full trousers worn by the women of Orien-
tal nations. This garb, assumed first for work-
ing purposes, Madame Dieulafoy found so con-
venient and easy that a return to stays, tight-
fitting or decollete bodices, and long trains,
became intolerable, and she continues to wear
it.—Ex.
	A few years ago, an excellent D. D., who
had lived in Wyoming and been chaplain to
the Territorial Legislature, published in the
Religious Telescope a glowing account of the
good effects of equality of rights for women.
Among other things, he cited the abundance
of children in Wyoming, and attributed it to
the influence of woman suffrage ! It is pro-
bable that in this the good doctor's enthusiam
for woman suffrage carried him a little too far;
for we find the same abundance of children in
other frontier Territories where woman suffrage
does not prevail. It is probably accounted
for by the fact that the settlers are largely 
young married people, and that they lead a
hardy and rugged life. It is evident, however,
that if woman suffrage does not promote the
increase of population, it certainly does not
prevent it—Ex.
	Any education that unfits women to be
mothers, or men to be fathers, must be con-
demned, of course. The mistake lies in as-
suming that the higher education does unfit
women to be mothers. A year or two since,
the Association of Collegiate Alumnae col-
lected statistics from about 800 women college

[Column 2]

graduates, as to their health before, during
and after college, the health of their children,
the number who had died, etc. Two points
came out clearly from these statistics: that the
health of the girls generally improved at col-
lege, when they did not over-study; and that
the death-rate among the children of college
women is remarkably low. An educated
woman knows better than an ignorant one how
to care for her own health and that of her
child. Again, the quailty of the children has
to be considered as well as the quantity. The
child of an educated mother is likely to be
more intelligent that the child of an ignoraut
mother. It is more likely to live, and is also
"worth raising."—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MARY JANE CROSBY.

	On January 31, 1889, at 9:30 a.m., at her residence,
East Bountiful, Davis County, Utah, of lung disease and
pneumonia, Mary Jane, daughter of Samuel and Mary
Johnson, and wife of John K. Crosby, sen. Born August
28, 1816, in Milton, State of New York. She leaves a
husband, four children, one son and three daughters, and
15 grandchildren to mourn her loss.
	The deceased was an active worker, and for many years
was a counselor to President Barlow, until the reorganiza-
tion of the Relief Society of the East Bountiful Ward.
She died a faithful Latter-day Saint, and in the hope of a
glorious resurrection. Requiiscat in pace.
		COM.
	Nevada papers please copy.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 

	We, the undersigned members of the Panaca Relief So-
ciety, having been authorized to draft Resolutions of Re-
spect to the memory of our beloved sister, Mary Rice, who
departed this life Dec. 10, 1888, beg leave to submit the
following:
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father, in His infinite wisdom,
has seen fit to remove from our midst to a higher sphere
our worthy and beloved sister, Mary Rice, and,
	Whereas, the intimate relations held during a long, useful
life by her, with the members of the Relief Society, makes
it fitting that we record our appreciation of her, therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That we, the Panaca Relief Society, deeply
regret and feel really the loss of one so loved, faithful and
esteemed, and feel to extend our heart-felt sympathy to
the bereaved family and relations who are called upon to
part with an affectionate mother and friend, and with them
acknowledge an Almighty God in our bereavement; and
be it
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of Sister Rice
the loss of a dutiful and faithful officer, and we look for-
ward to that time when the graves will open and the spirit
and body be again united, when the earth will be purified
and become the home of the faithful Saints.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be tendered
the bereaved family; also that one be placed on our re-
cord.
		ELIZABETH WADSWORTH, Prest.,
		ELIZA WADSWORTH, Sec.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of the departed
children of the Primary Association of Goshen, who died
in October and November of diphtheria.
	Whereas, in the providence of an alwise God, our little
ones have been called from our midst by the hand of death,
and,
	Whereas, we have been called to mourn the loss of so
many of our dear Primary children, viz.: Elizabeth Ed-
wards, Lillian Morgan, Nena Christenson, Eva Peterson,
Nina Cantelen and Lydia Race, who were faithful mem-
bers in the Association, bright and intelligent, taken in the
bloom of innocence; we can truly say they are greatly
missed at home and by the community.
	Resolved, That we realize the loss we have sustained in
their departure, and that we hereby extend our condolence
and sympathy to their parents and relatives, and in our
united prayers as members of the Association, ask God to
bless and comfort them in their sorrow.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be furnished
the parents, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that they are
placed upon the records of the Association, which would


have been furnished before, but the meetings have not been
held, on account of sickness, until the present.

	We sadly miss these dear ones,
		When we to Primary come;
	But how much greater are they missed,
		By their parents in their homes.

	We pray to Thee, oh, Father,
		Thy Spirit comfort send,
	For if we put our trust in Thee,
		Thou art our only friend;

	To comfort us in sorrow,
		And the way Thou hast made plain,
	To claim our precious jewels,
		And dwell with them again.

		EMMA L. JENKINS,
		JULIA M. JESPERSON, Committee.
		LYDIA C. JESPERSON,
	Goshen, Utah Co., Utah, Feb. 6, 1889.


Training School for Nurses
	On February 4th, 1889, I will open a Training
School for Nurses; the object being to make edu-
cated nurses of women and girls, and prepare them 
for competent work either in hospital or private
practice, so that skilled service can be furnished
and good pay demanded. The instruction will be
similar to that of the Boston Training School, and
will occupy a period of three months. Those not
prepared to enter at the beginning of the course,
may do so later, and preceding lectures will be
made up to them. Special arrangements can also 
be made for obstetrical teaching.
	TUITION,	-	-	-	$25.00.
For further Information, address,
DR. M. P. HUGHES,
P. O. Box 575, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Or for personal interview, at office, at 2 p.m., at
Cor. of South Temple and First East Sts.
MARTHA P. HUGHES, M.D.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES,  RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1889.	NO. 19.


[For the EXPONENT.]

TRUST IN THE LORD.

Thou mourning soul, bowed down with grief,
	Oppressed, bereaved and worn,
There is a source of sure relief
	For hearts by sorrow worn.
Our God is just and will repay
	The smiter and the smit;
He will wipe all thy tears away,
	And heal thee every whit.

It needs must be offences come
	To overflow the cup,
And prove the justice of the doom
	The wicked filleth up.
But thou, offend not; keep thy feet,
	Though bleeding, in the way,
The straight and narrow way, and sweet
	Will be thy coming day.

If God hath chosen thee for one
	His name to glorify,
To prove that justice will be done
	Offenders proud and high;
Shouldst thou repine, unwilling be,
	And weary Him with cries?
May, they who bravely bear will be
	Most lovely in His eyes.

Foretaste thy joy and lighten woe,
	By yielding all to Him;
"He chasteneth whom He loveth!" oh,
	That faith should e'er be dim!
No human love or mortal joy
	Can faintly shadow this,
Which seeks to cleanse thee from alloy
	And give thee endless bliss.

Oh, trust in Him with boundless trust,
	With faith unwavering go
Where'er He leads, though in the dust
	Thy heart be stricken low;
Take up thy cross and follow Him,
	Though seas above thee roll;
'Mid sunless depths or deserts dim
	He'll not forsake thy soul.

Oh, rest assured whate'er thy lot,
	Though lone, obscure, and low,
By Him thou never art forgot
	In welfare or in woe.
No tears of thine shall fall unseen,
	No sigh exhale unheard;
His love, thee and thy griefs between,
	Takes note of every word.

And in His own swift circling time,
	That soon will roll away,
He'll bring thy wounds sweet healing balm,
	And crown thy night with day.
Be not in haste, do not complain,
	Nor doubt His loving care,
But trust His word and bless His name,
	And yield not to despair.

For swiftly comes the fated hour,
	 The hour of joy and doom,
When broken falls the rod of power
	Which wrought thy days of gloom.
And grief's pale cheeks shall bloom with joy,
	The pure, the deep, the true.
Unspeakable without alloy—
	Take heart, it comes for your.

		LU DALTON.


[Column 1]

YOUNG WOMEN.

	What young women do, and do not do.
What their mothers and grandmothers used to
do. What the mothers of the future are likely
to do, and to be. These are fruitful topics of

[Column 2]

conversation and criticism, and form the
groundwork of many an article in the journals
of the day. We are all very apt to indulge
somewhat freely in the worship of the past, and
"auld lang syne" somehow touches tenderly a
fine-strung chord in the human heart; but we
who are living and acting now, have really
very much more occasion to make the present
beautiful and attractive, than to gaze back-
ward and rehearse over the sayings and doings
of other periods, and long after the past. The
work of women in that age was a part of the
time, and a natural result of their surround-
ings and the state of society in which they
lived. And ours to day is perhaps a step in
advance and what we are doing pertains to the
present and will have its bearing upon those
who are to come after us, the next generation,
as the doings of the past has upon us; strange
if our posterity should glance backward with
the same idol-worship of the age in which we
are living, and with the workings of which
some of us seem to be so dissatisfied. But this
is said to be an age of idleness for women,
comparatively speaking, there are so many
facilities for lightening labor; and even our
babies now-a-days not only have cradles but
carriages, whereas but a short time ago we had
always to carry them in our arms.
	A long time ago in the days of our grand-
mothers every young lady was expected to
know how to card and spin, if not to weave, in
addition to her knowledge of all other house-
hold employments; and knitting was an indis-
pensable requisite in any young girl's qualifi-
cations; it was the work that could always be
relied upon in case all other work gave out.
In fact it became proverbial, that no young
woman should marry until she had a pillow-
case full of stockings of her own knitting, and
usually of her own spinning. Bed and table
linen of one's own work were also essential.
Spinning flax on a little wheel was considered
in those primitive days the finishing off of a
young lady's domestic accomplishments, and
it is really an industry requiring skill. I well
remember my grandfather telling me, "Ladies
spun on the little wheel" (with great emphasis
on the word ladies). I knew well what he
meant, although everything of the kind was
done in factories then; I had often seen the
fuuny little wheel in the garret, and been told
it belonged to my great-grandmother, and I
remember distinctly, when a little girl, of
trying to convert it into a rocking horse, fancy-
ing the handful of flax which still clung, to the
spindle was the mane. If I had not decided
to write about what women do, and don't do,
I could tell you a long story about other inter-
esting curiosities in that same garret, where I
played with the little wheel for a horse, on
which my foremothers had spun the very linen
with which the family closets were filled; but
withal I will say, that there were many relics
of former days there, that gave me a particular
love for garrets, which clings to me still.
Now-a-days such things go to a second-hand
store, a term I never really appreciated the
practical meaning of until of late. But we
will go back to the spinning and leave the
garrets for another time. Our forefathers
thought there could not be a more beautiful
picture than a pretty woman, sitting carelessly
at the little wheel spinning flax; drawing out
the shining threads with taper fingers, while
the dainty foot in open-work stocking and old-
fashioned sandal, showing to the best advan-

[Column 3]

tage, rested on the treadle. I have heard it
averred, that many a bashful, sunbrowned
sweetheart, has been induced to declare his
love and urge his suit, at sight of his inamorata
spinning flax at the little wheel. More pro-
posals of marriage have likely been made be-
side the spinning wheel than at the piano.
Perhaps it is owing to the industrial tone of
the occupation, for matrimony savors of labor;
men are not apt to look upon the piano as a 
desirable article of household furniture, or as
any addition to domestic happiness; albeit
many women earn their own living, hardly
enough too, by teaching instrumental music;
and there are men who barely tolerate a piano
in the house, because wife or daughter has en-
treated him to buy it. I have heard men
make bold to say, even in this age of culture,
they preferred to see women play upon the
washboard; this is the class of men I ween who
would use the money earned by the industrious,
devoted wife to purchase cigars and tobacco.
But lest we wander away from the theme of
spinning, and spin out a long dissertation upon
men and women's opinions of each other, we
will go back to the spinning wheel, and the
every day pursuits of women; say what we
will about the beauty and utility of the distaff
and the spindle, this age of progress has left
them far behind in the dim distance, and they
only live in the recollection of our young ladies
in connection with poetic legends and love-
stories. Many other once essential household
labors are supplanted by the mechanical work
of machinery of modern invention; until one
wonders comparing the past with the present,
how it is there is so much still left for woman's
busy fingers to do, and that there seems to be
so little time in which to perform the work of
the household.
	Well, as young women can't spin, because
forsooth there is no spinning to do, and as
knitting is out of date, and sewing done up in
a hurry on a machine, instead of wearing away
one's self at it till midnight and past, women
ought to have plenty of time to read, and go
to bed early. It used to be common for the
mother to do all the family sewing, and darn-
ing, and mending after papa and the children
were in bed; this does not date far back; but
there is little need of it now, and women, mo-
thers especially, may save the vitality which
used to be expended in fine hemming and
stitching, etc., and it will possibly be a benefit
to the future race. Not that one should be
idle, but not over-worked as women necessarily
have been in former times. Common sense
tells us that young women, or we will say
mothers, cannot hold out to work so many
more hours than the day laborer; and yet this
has often been the case. What is the result—
the mother breaks down, grows prematurely
old, or succumbs altogether, leaving her family
to grow up without her tender, loving care,
and the world calls it "a dispensation of divine
providence." Let us be thankful, that some
of the burdens of woman's life have been re-
lieved by the spirit of progress; I am sure we
have great reason to be. Who of us for in-
stance, and more especially our daughters
would like to cook over a fireplace as we did
in the early days in Utah? Methinks I see
some of those girls looking back thirty, or
even twenty-five years, and see their mothers
piling coals on the bake kettle with baby (per-
chance the identical young lady) in her arms.
Why it actually makes me all in a heat to think


of it. That day is past, and now what? well
what! one taken up from another century and
set down in this, would wonder how we occu-
pied our time; and yet we hear women every
day saying, “I have so much to do.” Well
one’s needs or wants increase as civilization
reaches a higher state, and all that implies
work to keep up with the times; still where we
used to have to scrub floors, we now have car-
pets, and if we wear more ruffles and flounces,
we do not do half of the embroidering in lace,
muslin and linen that our grandmothers did.
We bake more cakes, and make more pastry,
which is a very great drawback, for as a com-
pensation, we get peevish and dyspeptic, and
low-spirited in proportion. We ought to eat
our fruit, without pastry to make us sick, and
dispense with rich cakes altogether either for
ourselves or company. That would be one
step towards economy and expense, and we
should have so much the more time to read, in-
struct our children or exchange friendly inter-
course with our neighbors.
	In commencing this article I said, what young
women do, and do not do; that was the first
paragraph, and the last to be woven into the
chapter. Well then it seems to me, that the
young ladies of today do not appreciate their
blessings. Not that I think they mean to be
at all ungrateful, but their surroundings are so
pleasant, and their associations so happy, in
contrast with the past, that it is scarcely to be
credited as real. The opportunities for gain-
ing knowledge, the facilities for culture, the
many comforts and embellishments for the
home, that beautify and give charm to domestic
and social life, all these in detail add to their
cup of blessings; and if they are wise and lay
up treasures of wisdom and understanding,
now in the days of their youth, they may be
much better qualified to fill the responsible
positions of wife and mother, than those who
have had so few advantages, and so many
hardships to endure. Young ladies, believe
me, you have work to do, which will require
active exertion of brain and muscle; and
though you will perhaps not have the oppor-
tunity of spinning on the little wheel, you
will find needful work lying all around you.
Mothers ought to devote a goodly portion of
the time in teaching their children by the
fireside and in my soul I pity that woman,
who thinks the work, which must be left un-
done when she is gone, of more consequence
than the moral or spiritual lessons she is capa-
ble of imparting to her offspring. The young
women of to-day are well informed in regard
to the duties of life. If they act according to
the light which has been given to them, there
is scarcely anything in the power of women to
do, but they may succeed in accomplishing.
	This is designated an age of refinement and
culture; and a school education is attainable
by all; certainly the superior advantages en-
joyed must have a tendency to lift up and
elevate, unless there is correspondingly strong
counteracting influences, detracting and bear-
ing downwards. Whatever forces of this
kind may exist they ought not to affect in
any great degree the Latter-day Saints, whose
principles of faith, and knowledge of the truths
of heaven, should lift them above the seducing
allurements that hinder the onward and upward
progression of society in the world. Then
what conclusion shall we arrive at? Why,
consequently that the condition of woman to-
day is much better in every respect than in
the days of our grandmothers, and that the
women of the future, will, judging from the
outlook of the present, far surpass us who are
now upon the stage of action. Woman is
learning to think, act and reason for herself,
not to hang her conscience on another, or pin
her faith to the sleeve of any one. Young
girls are beginning to comprehend that em-
ployment, suited to the capacity of woman by
which she may earn an independent living, is
much more womanly, than depending upon
some male relative for maintenance and sup-
port. Besides many women are suddenly left
helpless and alone, by the death of husband or
father, and how desolate under such circum-
stances will she be, who has never been taught
self-dependence. This is one of the lessons
thoughtful women are learning today, and it
will be a legacy better than wealth, for it will
not take wings and fly away. Then success to
the young lady of the age, if she cannot spin
flax at the little wheel, she can make a far
prettier picture, with her intelligent face, when
she sits with the crown of motherhood upon
her thoughtful brow, caressing her first baby.
AUNT EM.


.	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LIANTHI. 
	We are baptized for the dead, and believe 
that they in the spirit world take up their 
work among their spirit companions, just as 
we do here.  I have been led to wonder if
there is a spirit form of baptism there, answer-
ing to the real ordinance here, by the follow-
ing dream:  
	In 1885, in Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah, 
where I now live, I dreamed of walking in 
another country, into a city softly overshadowed 
by a golden light like a delicate mist, most 
beautiful and soothing to the eyes.  Quiet as a 
Sabbath, I could see groups of persons in fair 
attire going all in one direction.  The doors of 
dwellings stood ajar, their inmates all gone out.  
After wandering awhile through the peaceful 
streets I ventured to enter a house to rest, and 
soliloquized:  "I am a stranger here, knowing 
no one in all this city."  Thus reflecting I 
turned to survey the room, and observed a 
large portrait of a man, the picture surrounded 
by delicate sketches illustrating the labors of 
his life; underneath was the name LIANTHI; 
and under this the inscription, "A little one in 
the kingdom of heaven."  The five groups 
each described a missionary preaching the 
Gospel; also performing the ordinance of bap-
tism in clear streams, while thousands waited 
upon the banks.  I recognized these colored 
races as the North American Indians, and the 
white people as the long line of his own rela-
tives who had passed into the spirit world be-
fore him. 
	I gazed upon the solemn, pathetic and elo-
quent face of the preacher, his black hair in 
loose curls upon his shoulders, his right hand 
gracefully uplifted, the forefinger pointing up-
ward, and those eyes glowing and tremulous 
with power, and charmed, enthralled with bliss-
ful fervor I asked myself, "Who is he?  I know 
that somewhere I have met that soul!"
	When I awoke the dream returned and like 
a flash came the recollection of my great-
grandfather, who had a Puritan father and 
Penobscot mother, and after his Christian edu-
cation claimed that he was divinely called to 
preach the teachings of Jesus Christ.  Seventy 
years he followed his mission, heard of Mor-
monism, but died without receiving his desire
to investigate it.  Then a work was done for 
him in the house of the Lord, and I doubt not 
he took up his labor in the spirit world, for the 
face of Lianthi in my dream was the same that 
looks forth from the canvas in the old home—
the face of the Rev. John Harriman.  
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


ITEMS FROM NEW MEXICO. 
EDITOR EXPONENT:  
	The Relief Society of this place was organ-
ized four years ago, since which time we have 
been laboring in a quiet way, doing all the 
good we can, visiting the sick, comforting those 
who mourn, and administering to the needy.


Monday, Jan. 21st, we held a special meeting, 
and were blessed with the wise and fatherly 
counsel of Coun. E. N. Freeman, of the Stake 
Presidency, on our duties as wives and mothers 
in Israel, and as members of the Relief Society;
also in regard to teaching our daughters the 
laws of health.  
	Bishop J. R. McNeil spoke of the duties 
resting upon the sisters in visiting and adminis-
tering to the sick; also many other duties. 
	We had a time of rejoicing; the Spirit of the 
Lord was with us, and we felt strengthened for 
our labors in this portion of the Lord's vineyard.  
	We are surrounded by the red men of the
forest, and our every action is closely scanned 
and criticised by them.  They compare our 
actions with those of other people with whom 
they come in contact, and we feel that as sis-
ters we are doing a good work among them by 
our home example.  
	Ever praying for the spread of the Gospel 
and the redemption of the tribe of Israel, I am, 
	Your sister in the Gospel, 
	PHEBE A. MCNEIL, PREST.


A PRIMARY SURPRISE. 
	On Friday, the 18th of January, 1889, the 
Primary children of the 6th Ward of Logan 
had a very pleasant time.  Their President, 
Sister Emma Pike, would be fifty years old on 
Sunday the 20th; Friday being their usual 
meeting day, they desired “to take time by the
forelock.” On entering the house she was 
greeted with a sweet song from the children
—“Gather them into the fold.” Prayer was 
offered by Fred Turner, a Primary boy.  
	In the center of the meeting house a table 
was spread with the good things usual to make 
a picnic, and in the center of it a large birth-
day cake was placed, with the name and age 
of our President on it, made by some of the 
older girls of the Primary Association.  Our 
acting Bishop, Fred Turner, also our Primary 
Stake President, Sister Jane Molen, and her 
Second Counselor, Sister Mattie A. Hanson, 
the Relief Society President, Sister Adeline 
Barber, and also the President of the Relief 
Society of the ward, Sister Lizzie Townsend 
and many others had assembled to greet Sister 
Pike.
	The children gave their usual exercises; a 
few of the oldest girls formed a committee and 
presented some beautiful window curtains to 
Sister Pike; a handsome book, entitled, “The
Light of the Nations,” was given by Master 
Fred Turner, and another pretty gift by a little 
boy to whom Sister Pike had administered in
sickness; also a beautiful book of winter scenes 
and a sweet poem composed for the occasion 
by Sister Mattie A. Hanson; a beautiful crazy 
patch pin-cushion, with Sister Pike’s name on 
it, was given to her by Ragna J. Johnson, the 
Secretary, and many other presents were given 
to her, after which a lunch was partaken of by 
all.  
	Many pleasant and cheering things were 
said to our President, calculated to strengthen 
her for the Primary labors, and give her cour-
age to meet all the duties and vicissitudes of 
life.  May she live long to continue her labors 
among the young, and have strength of mind
and body to fulfil all of life’s duties, is the 
wish of the officers and children of the 6th 
Ward of Logan.  
	We had a very pleasant entertainment on 
Friday night, Feb. 17th, in the 6th Ward
meeting house.  The house was well filled with 
people, and the children did their parts well, 
and it was really a success.
	RAGNA J. JOHNSON.


Olive Schreiner in “The Story of an Afri-
can Farm” says there was never a man who 
said one word for woman but he said two for 
man, and three for the whole human race.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


COME, SING TO ME.  
BY ANNIE M. BEACH. 
Come, sing to me, my soul is sad, 
Yet music sweet may soothe the pain, 
Waking up memories—warm and glad,—
Of joys that may be mine again.

Sing not to-day of broken ties,  
Sing not of blighted hopes, sweet friend, 
I would not hear of sweet good-bye's
For sorrow's dawning, but its end.  

The song shall be of faithful hearts, 
That hoped and prayed thro' sorrow's night, 
Till, suddenly, the grief-cloud parts, 
Before a burst of joy's glad light.  

And if there come a tide of tears, 
'Twill waft this weariness away, 
Which resteth like a cloud of years
Upon my doubting heart to-day.  

Then, after sleep hath sealed my eyes, 
And I awake, 'twill all be o'er, 
The sunshine of my soul will rise 
Unclouded, as it was before.  

How strange we are!—the grief's to-day
That o'er the heart have coldly crept,
To-morrow, we may cast away, 
Smiling as though we had not wept.  

It must be so! The joy and pain 
Making life's shadow and its light, 
But when the Better Land we gain, 
We know "there shall be no more night." 

Cambria, N. Y.


MEMORIAL 
DEDICATED TO MRS. JOSEPH BURROWS. 
All Nature's laws are perfect, 
And God's will always just. 
That these are true, and will be, 
Though numbered with the dust, 
Was thought by him that's left us, 
And gone to nobler spheres, 
His presence has bereft us, 
Not to meet again for years.  

A form of youth and vigor 
Was a boon he claimed his own, 
And little did he ponder 
O'er the death that called him home; 
But whom God loves He chastens: 
Let these words comfort give, 
When one from us He hastens, 
'Tis but to bid him live.

The mind oft fails conceiving 
The depths of God's design, 
The grandeur of His purpose 
Put forth in every clime; 
Unless, perchance, enlightened
By His all-matchless aid,
Then intellect is brightened 
And ignorance is stayed.  

Though wisdom is not seen 
By us in mortal guise, 
In taking this our brother 
Whose form before us lies, 
Whose kindness, mirth and favor 
Have not been spent in vain, 
But as a record, goes before, 
His eternal bliss to gain.  

Then fear not for his future, 
No more than for his past, 
Though life be rough and thorny, 
He's reached his goal at last.  
Let's live a good life also, 
Then we may, too, I trust, 
Meet him, with all our loved ones, 
In the regions of the just. 
R. R. I., JR. 
February 14, 1889,


ST. PAUL’S WIFE.

Under the above heading The Victoria Daily
Times; Victoria, B.C. publishes what it styles
“A Piquant Debate by the Ladies,” from
which we clip the following, believing our
readers will be interested in the subject and 
amused with the way the matter is handled.
It is certainly a novel theme for discussion.
The debate was held in the Methodist Church
in that city, the Rev. Mr. Starr presiding as
master of ceremonies. Six ladies took part in
the discussion Tuesday evening Jan. 22nd. The 
matter was introduced thus: “Resolved that
St. Paul was a married man.”—ED
	The debate was opened by Mrs. Grant, who
stated her case clearly and concisely. She
held that only as a married man could St.
Paul have attained the celebrity he did in
church matters. She attributed Mrs. St.
Paul’s inconspicuousness to her attention to
home matters, which left no doubt in the minds
of the audience as to her partiality for house-
keeping. The speaker further referred from
the general character of Paul’s writings that he
was too susceptible a man to have remained
single; because it was a custom among the Jews 
to marry at an early age, particularly the mem-
bers of the Sanhedrim, an assembly to which
Paul belonged. The fact that Paul gave no
particulars was of no consequence as showing
him to be a single man. Common modesty
forbid, that unless his wife was an active worker
among the missions, she should remain in the
background. 
	Mrs. Starr, who represented the “opposi-
tion,” as the Chairman styled it, next took the
floor. This lady gave several anecdotes illus-
trative of the points she wished to make, and
she also flatly asserted that it was not incum-
bent on the members of the Sanhedrim to enter
upon the conjugal relations. Again it was not
so clear that Paul was a member of the San-
hedrim, inasmuch as he was probably too
young a man to be admitted to that august
body. He had witnessed Stephen’s death as a
young man of 28, and was converted shortly
afterward. It was not at all probable that a
man so young would have taken a prominent
part in the deliberations of the Jews. Having
thus established a doubt as to Paul’s member-
ship of the Sanhedrim and therefore leaving
the inference that he was under no obligations
to marry, she proceeded to say that the best
evidence of Paul’s single blessedness was his
reticence in reference to Mrs. St. Paul. It was
hardly credible to suppose that if he had been
a married man he would have remained so
profoundly silent on the matter. Why should
Paul want a wife? said the fair speaker, when 
being a tent-maker by profession he could do
all his own mending and darning. Married,
forsooth, St. Paul was a crusty old bach. Mrs.
Starr then thanked The Times for its advocacy
of her side of the case and quit the floor for
Mrs. Chase.
	Mrs. Chase gave a pen portrait of Mrs. Saul,
as that must have been Paul’s name at the 
period of his matrimonial venture, describing
her as fair with dark eyes. She said that Paul’s
recommendation that women should not talk
was all owing to the fact of Mrs. Paul being a 
voluble conversationalist, and of having given
her liege lord an overdose. Nobody but a man
who was married, or had been married, would
ever have known whether women should hold
their tongues or not. Mrs. Chase was further
of the opinion that Paul’s silence in the matter
of his wife was owing to his being a widower
during the period of his ministry. Then again, 
as regards kissing, a feature frequently alluded
to by the Apostle; how should he know any-
thing about it unless he had been a married
man? Mrs. Chase concluded her remarks with
a eulogy on the man as the noblest and best of
all the disciples. 

[Column 2]
Miss Lazenby was the next speaker. This
lady said that she had always been an admirer
of St. Paul, and that had she been a contempor-
ary of his, it is doubtful if he had remained a
bachelor, at least not with her consent. In this
speaker’s preliminary remarks, we had promise
of some witty revelations, but she did not con-
tinue as long as the audience would have
liked.
	Mrs. Adams, for the affirmative, assumed
that St. Paul could not have given so much 
good advice  unless he had been a married man.
The fact that he never alluded to his family 
was no sign of bachelorhood. Mr. Moody nor
any of the divines for that matter, were in the
habit of interlarding their sermons with remi-
niscences of their married experiences.
	Mrs. Gardner alluding to the “thorn in the
flesh,” attributed it to St. Paul’s fecundity of 
speech, a characteristic originating primarily
in a predisposition to epilepsy. Poets and all
men addicted to broad scope of language were
more or less epileptic; ‘twas an infallible sign
of genius. It was not reasonable to suppose
that St. Paul would allude to woman in op-
probrious terms, and even if he had it was no
sign of his having been a married man. A
woman a thorn in the flesh, said the speaker;
St. Paul wasn’t built that way. If he had been
 a married man he never would have offered
any advice to women, because he must have
known they would disregard it. Did you ever
know of a bachelor, said the lady, with a toss
of her pretty head, who was not always talk-
ing about women. 
	Mrs. Grant then closed for the affirmative,
recapitulating and quoting old authors in sup-
port of her argument. 
	Mrs. Starr followed for the “opposition,” and
in rebuttal of the remark that St. Paul must
have been a married man to be familiar with
kissing, said he was a funny bachelor who was 
ignorant of the art of osculation, (blushing
among the bachelors.) And so ended the 
famous controversy, a controversy which was
awarded to the negatives by a bare majority.
	Our reporter has listened to a good many
debates, and he has heard a number of women 
talk, but this was the most characteristic affair
he ever witnessed—womanish to the backbone,
piquant, and developing considerable research.
St. Paul is a very grave subject to be handled
lightly, and doubtless were he a witness to the
forensic combat last night over his matrimonial
status, he would wish to assume the body once
more and relieve “the thorn of the flesh busi-
ness,” of the ambigity it is said to possess.
The preceeding, however, with all its tendency
to levity, is not without good points. Research
is stimulated and men who have grown rusty
in biblical matters resurrect their testaments
and refresh their memories. On the whole the
effort was worth listening to, and that it was
appreciated was made manifest by the applause
of the audience. One thing is certain, the 
ladies show a quickness of wit and a noncha-
lance which made our reporter feel for his sex.


Four new States would add greatly to 
Fourth of July celebrations, because four more 
girls would be needed to represent the galaxy 
of States in the gorgeously decorated wagons 
in patriotic parades.  
	The woman suffrage bill has been defeated 
in the Dakota House of Representatives, by a 
vote of 17 to 28  One potent reason was the 
fear that the establishment of woman suffrage 
might make Congress less inclined to admit Da-
kota as a State.  The men of Dakota were so 
eagerly anxious to obtain full political rights 
for themselves that they disregarded the just 
claims of their wives and sisters.  It is a pity.
—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	-	Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy, one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.		 
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	MARCH 1, 1889.


[Column 1]
﻿FREE FROM EXILE AND IMPRISON-
MENT. 
	On Thursday, February 21, Apostle George Q.
Cannon was released from the Penitentiary, where
he had been since September 17, 1888.  His time
having expired, he came forth a free man once
more, and his right of citizenship restored, a par-
don having been granted him from President
Cleveland. It is gratifying to him, certainly, and
to all the Latter-day Saints, that he received the
pardon in time to be valuable, and that he has his
freedom once more, and can be among the people,
counseling, encouraging, instructing and preach-
ing.
	The morning of the 22nd Prest. Woodruff
and Elder Geo. Q. Cannon were serenaded in the
President’s Office by the Tabernacle Choir in a
body, about one hundred in all. A few other
brethren and sisters were present. After shaking
hands and exchanging greetings, the choir ren-
dered some choice selections, and Bro. C. R.
Savage spoke a few touching and kindly words in
their behalf, Bro. Cannon responding in a very
affectionate and fatherly way. Mrs. Silverwood
sang in a sympathetic voice the song entitled, “The
song that reached my heart.” She was so much af-
fected, that she was obliged to stop for a few
minutes before she conld control her emotions
sufficiently to resume singing.
	After the Choir concluded their serenade, the
Kanaka brethren and sisters came in and sang
several pieces in their original style, language
and manner. Two or three songs or hymns had
been composed expressly for the occasion in
honor of Bro. Cannon and to welcome him again
to the midst of the Saints in Zion. The Sand-
wich Islanders look upon Bro. Cannon as their
father in the Gospel, he having labored among
them several years, more than thirty years ago
now. Prest. Woodruff was much exercised in
seeing them, and spoke eloquently to them of the
work they were to perform, his interest in their
behalf, and said many comforting things to them,
calculated to encourage them and strengthen their
faith in the Gospel. His remarks were interpreted
by a young Elder who had been on the Islands
upon a mission recently. This little incident was
one long to be remembered by those who wit-
nessed it. To meet again under such pleasant
circumstances two men whose lives are so identi-
 fied with the Church of God, and behold their
faces beaming with joy and gladness, after such a
long and dreary exile as it must have been to
them, and a trial to the Saints to be deprived of
their society, is an event to be treasured in one’s
heart, and remembered to the end of life’s pil-
grimage. This people truly love their leaders,
the Apostles, and Prest. Woodruff, the aged
veteran is greatly venerated as well as beloved by
the Latter-day Saints, who all rejoice to see him
[Column 2]
again among them in his accustomed places and
hear his voice in the assemblies of the Saints.
	On Sunday afternoon, March 24, the large
Tabernacle was filled to overflowing, the galleries
as well as the body of the house, and hundreds
went away who could not obtain seats. It was a
grand and imposing sight, this vast assembly of
people gathered together on the Sabbath day to
partake of the sacrament of the Lord’s supper,
and to hear the voices of those who had been
wont to teach them in the past, again speaking to
them from the public stand.
	Apostle Geo. Q. Cannon was the first speaker;
his voice was as clear and as powerful as ever,
and his emotions, however tender, were kept
strictly under control. He alluded with the ut-
most kindliness and genuine sympathy to the part
women had borne in the crusade or the persecu-
tion of the past few years, and spoke in terms of
glowing admiration of their integrity to the princi-
ples of their faith and their sublime courage
under trying and difficult ordeals. His discourse
was eloquent throughout, and must have made a
deep impression upon all who heard him, even to
the strangers who were in attendance, more as a
matter of curiosity, than to hear the truths of hea-
ven spoken by a servant of God.
	Prest. Woodruff spoke after Bro. Cannon had
finished, in his usual fluent and happy manner,
with the same earnestness and fervor that has
always characterized his public speaking, and he
was listened to with the profoundest attention,
that every word might be treasured up, and not an
idea lost sight of. Joy beamed upon every coun-
tenance, and tears fell from the eyes of many in
welcoming these Apostles again to the body of
the Church of the Saints in Zion.
	In the evening Elder Geo. Q. Cannon addressed
the meeting of the Latter-day Saints in the Fifth
Ward of this city, and no doubt he will be filling
his mission in preaching to the people wherever
and whenever duty calls him, and may his days
be full of peace and happiness, and his enemies
no more have power to force him into exile, or
cast him into prison. And for Prest. Woodruff
the prayers of the Saints ever ascend for his
safety and the lengthening out of his days, that
he may lead Israel onward, and that the enemies
of the Saints may never prevail against him or
have power to hinder the progress of the Church
and kingdom of God here upon the earth.
	On this day, the 1st of March, President Wood-
ruff attains to the advanced age of four score and
two years. It is a happy day for him; he is once
more at liberty to go among the people to associ-
ate with his friends, if not with his family. Verily
he has lived to a good old age, and his days have
been filled up with usefulness, and his opportuni-
ties are now increased and enlarged, for he fills
the highest position of trust and honor in the
Church of God upon the earth. His faithful-
ness, his zeal and integrity, and his humility are
known throughout Zion, and in the lands afar
where the Saints reside, and may he live to see
many happy returns of this day and the work of
God progress, and other Temples finished and
dedicated  to that spiritual work, to which so
much of his life has already been given.
	The EXPONENT adds its congratulations to
those of the many thousands of the Latter-day
Saints in wishing President Woodruff joy and
happiness on this occasion; and also in his enjoy-
ment of freedom to go and come without fear or
molestation.


PRESIDENTS CLEVELAND AND HAR-
RISON.

	On the 4th of this month the inauguration of
President-elect Harrison will take place. The
Republican party are jubilant over the victory
they have gained elaborate preparations are
being made for the event, and it is expected the


Capitol will be crowded with visitors to witness
the grand display and the imposing ceremonies,
and to be a part of the thronging multitude that
ever waits on greatness.
President Cleveland leaves the White House
with the good feelings of the people; his adminis-
tration has not by any means been a failure, and
he has certainly shown himself a man of strong
character and without fear, and has maintained
his own opinions and views, independent of favor,
or the prejudices of his own party.
Mrs. Cleveland has been exceedingly and de-
servedly popular.  Her youth and beauty, her
amiability of manner, and that modest grace
which carries with it a peculiar charm, has en-
deared her to all withwhom she has come in con-
tact.
And so one goes out and another comes into
power, and thus the wheel of life turns round, but
the destinies of men and of nations are in the
hands of the Great Ruler of the universe, and as
the rivers of water, He turneth them whitherso-
ever He will.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Stake secretaries of the Relief Society in
the various Stakes of Zion are urgently requested
to prepare semi-annual Stake reports and forward
them, so that they will reach this city on or before
the 20th of March, in order that a complete re-
port may be furnished the General Conference in
April.  Direct to Dr. Romania B. Pratt, corner
2nd West and First South Streets, Salt Lake
City.  By order of Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary.  
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the Y.
L. M. I. Associations is particularly anxious to
obtain correct semi-annual reports from each 
Stake of Zion.  These should be forwarded so as
to reach her not later than March 10th, to enable
her to compile them in time for the General Con-
ference on April 6th.  Will the secretaries of the
several Stakes please send promptly to Mary E.
Cook, 323 East, Third South Street, Salt Lake
City, Utah.  
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion will be held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday, March 14,
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.  A representa-
tive from each branch Society in the County is
particularly requested, and a cordial invitation is
extended to all who are interested in the work of
the organization.  The Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake will meet in conference Friday, March 15,
and the Primary Association Saturday, the 16th.
A full representation from each Association is
very desirable at both these conferences.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the
Primary Associations is desirous of obtaining a
full report from each Stake of Zion for the com-
plete report to be prepared in time for the April
Conference, and this semi-annual report should
be ready ten days before, or about the 25th of
March.  Consequently the reports from all points
ought to be in the hands of the Secretary as
early as the 10th of March at the latest, which
would give her then only two weeks time to pre-
pare them.  It is a very important thing, and the
Presidents of Primary Associations in the several
Stakes of Zion, should see that this matter is
properly attended to, both as to correct figures 
and statements and date of sending. Forward
the Stake reports to Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton,
No. 115 Third Street, Salt Lake City.
	ON Wednesday, Feb. 13th, a few ladies assem-
bled by invitation at the residence of Mrs. Julia
C. Howe, in this city, in what might be termed a
parlor meeting.  Social conversation upon topics
of general interest occupied the afternoon, and a
delicious repast was served at 5 p.m., after which
a rich spiritual feast was partaken of, when be-


[Column 1]
﻿sides singing and prayer, nearly every one present
expressed their thoughts and feelings in a few
appropriate and well-chosen words, and also their
desires to devote their lives more fully to the in-
terests and welfare of Zion. The Spirit of God
was abundantly poured out upon all present, and 
a time of rejoicing was experienced.
	Some time since we had the pleasure of attend-
ing a pleasant little gathering at the residence
of Mrs. H. G. Park, in this city. As the day was
a very stormy one, only a few of the invited guests
were present, but those who did come had a most 
enjoyable time. The dinner was delicious and
elegantly served, and the handsome dining room
was brilliantly lighted and as cosy as possible.
The conversation was of a social nature with a
thread of politics to enliven it, woman’s rights,
suffrage, etc., and statehood for Utah. Among
the guests who had the courage to venture out in
the storm, and who participated in the animated
discussions with the genial hostess, were Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. Jennie McLean and
Mrs. Margaret M. Caine. Later in the evening
Miss Mabel Park, after much persuasion, con-
sented to play and sing for the company, which
was greatly enjoyed; the young lady has a very
good voice, rich and musical, and her playing is 
very fine and her selections good. 
	TUESDAY evening, February 26, the annual
meeting of the Young Ladies’ Association in the
14th Ward of this city, convened in the Ward
Hall, which was elegantly fitted up for the occa-
sion. A very handsome carpet was laid down,
easy chairs, sofas and handsome little tables were
tastefully arranged; natural flowers here and 
there added their peculiar charm to the decora-
tions, and the beautiful and intelligent faces of
the young women, who had planned all this for
the enjoyment of the gathering, was a sight fair
to see. Miss Aggie Campbell, President of the 
Association, presided with ease and dignity.
After singing, and prayer by Bishop Geo. H.
Taylor, the roll call was responded to with a senti-
ment or verse from each of the members present,
which made a happy variety. The exercises were
of an interesting character, consisting of short
speeches, a song, by the Misses Campbell, and a
correspondence between two young women, a
poem, “Jamie,” recited with true dramatic tender-
ness, by Mrs. Ri. Taylor, also some testimonies,
that were quite impressive. Brief addresses were
also made by Sister M. A. Freeze, M. I. Horne,
E. B. Wells, E. S. Taylor, and by Bishop O. F.
Whitney and President Angus M. Cannon. Elder
Arthur Stayner recited in true dramatic style, the
significant poem, “The Church and the World,”
which was richly appreciated. Bishop Taylor
announced another part of the programme—
refreshments—which were served to all that 
goodly company, by what he facetiously 
termed “the white apron brigade.” After par-
taking of the delicate collation prepared by these
thoughtful young ladies, there was a call for
music, which was responded to, and Bishop
Whitney sang two or three favorite pieces, also
Brother Butler, and after singing and some social
converse of friends and acquaintances, the assem-
bly was dismissed with singing “Good Night”
by the choir, and a benediction, was pronounced by
Coun. H. F. Richards.
	ON Wednesday afternoon a few of the friends
of Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hyde assembled at the resi-
dence of that venerable lady, with baskets of pic-
nic, as an expression of their esteem, and to cele-
brate the seventy-eighth anniversary of her birth.
The afternoon was spent in conversation and re-
calling of reminiscences of the past thirty years.
The party was planned by Miss Josephine Win-
berg, and the programme carried out by herself 
and co-assistants, Mrs. Rachel Grant, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Grey and others. Bro. and Sister Rosell
Hyde of Kaysville were in the city by accident,

[Column 2]
and were present, Bishop Atwood and wife, Elder
Geo. Goddard and wife, Mrs. Ann Woolley and
her daughter Fanny, Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. 
Charles Hyde, Mrs. Catherine Hyde, Mrs. Jane
Rigby and others. Elder Geo. Goddard enter-
tained the company by singing “Hard times come
again no more,” and also, “The men are pretty
dear.” Bishop Atwood made a few remarks be-
fore leaving, expressing his kindly feelings for the
lady in whose honor the guests had assembled,
and called upon Mrs. E. B. Wells, who had lived
so near to Sister Hyde for many years; she re-
sponded briefly, alluding to “Aunt. Elizabeth’s”
(as she is affectionately called) journeying across
the plains with the handcart company in 1856,
and other matters familiar to those present, after
which Bro. Rosell Hyde, by request, spoke a few
words, as the representative of the family of his
deceased father, Herman Hyde, who, with his 
wife and children, were among the earliest mem-
bers of the Church in the State of New York. 
Sister Hyde expressed herself much gratified
with the tributes of good feeling and esteem she
had received, and made some very appropriate 
remarks suited to the time and occasion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CARD OF THANKS.
       	The committee having charge of the benefit re-
cently given in the Theatre for the Deseret Hos-
pital, desire to make public acknowledgment of
their appreciation of the generous response given
to the cause.  Especially are they grateful to the
Home Dramatic Club, who, by their laudable
efforts, did so much to make the affair the artistic
success which the performance proved. They
also tender their special thanks to the Orchestra
for their generosity, and the exquisite music ren-
dered, and to the managers of the Salt Lake
Theatre, and the Gas Company, as well as to the 
newspaper people, who were so liberal in the mat-
ter of advertising.  Multiplication of words is
needless; we are very grateful to all, who in any
way contributed to the benevolent cause for the
good of the institution. 
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, 
	MARGARET G. CLAWSON, 
	ELIZABETH HOWARD, 
	Committee.


MOTHER’S HOUSE.
       How many thoughts are called up by those two
familiar words!  Is there—can there be any place
so full of pleasant places, beneath the waving
palms of sunny isles, or in the chilling shadows
of icy mountains?  Our hearts turn with un-
changeable love and longing to the dear old home
which sheltered us in childhood.  Kind friends
may beckon us to newer scenes, and loving
hearts may bind us fast to pleasant homes; but we
are not satisfied with them alone, for there is one
place more fair and lovely than them all, and that
is a beloved mother’s house.
It may be old and rickety to the eyes of the
stranger.  The windows may have been broken
and patched long ago, and the floor worn through
and mended; but it is still mother’s house from
which we looked out at life with hearts full of
hope, building wonderful castles in cloudland
which faded long ago.  But, thanks to the good
Father, mother’s house is left us, and, weary with
the busy turmoil of life, weary of ourselves, we
turn our steps toward the dear old house of rest,
and at its threshold lay our burdens down. Here
we have watched life come and go; here we have
folded still, cold hands over hearts as still, that
once beat full of love for us; here we have wel-
comed brothers and sisters into life; watched for
the first lisping words from baby lips; guiding
the tottering baby feet from helplessness to man-
hood; and here we have watched, with aching
hearts, to see the dear ones torn from their home-


nest out into a world which has proven but a snare
and temptation to many wandering feet—yes,
many; and here we gather strength to take up our
lives again, and go on patiently unto the end.
Though the world calls us, and we may find
friends good and true, we turn to the dear old
home when troubles come, for help and comfort.
God grant that for us all there may long remain a
mother’s house!—Ex.
	W.


RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE NA-
TIONAL W. S. CONVENTION.
	
	WHEREAS, Women possessed and exercised 
the right of suffrage in the inauguration of this 
government; and, 
	WHEREAS, They were deprived of this right by 
the arbitrary acts of successive state legislatures 
in violation of the original compact as seen in the 
early constitutions; therefore, 
	Resolved, That it is the duty of the several 
states to make prompt restitution of these ancient 
rights, recognized by innumerable precedents in 
English history, and to-day the gradual extension 
of the suffrage over the vast territories.
	WHEREAS, Woman’s title deed to an equal 
share in the inheritance left her by the fathers of 
the Republic has been examined and proved by 
able lawyers; and, 
	WHEREAS, This right is already exercised in 
some form in one hundred localities in different 
parts of the world; therefore, 
	Resolved, That sex is no longer considered a 
bar to the exercise of suffrage by civilized na-
tions.  
	Resolved, That it is the duty of Congress to 
pass a declaratory act, compelling the several 
states to establish a “republican form of govern-
ment” within their borders by securing to women 
their right to vote, thus nullifying the fraudulent 
acts of state legislatures and making our govern-
ment homegeneous from Maine to Oregon.  
	Resolved, That the recent school election in 
Boston is proof of the interest taken by women 
in political subjects and their readinesss to vote 
upon questions of principle.  
	Resolved, That the question of enfranchising 
one-half the people is superior to that of Indian 
treaties, admission of new states, tariff interna-
tional copyright, or any other subject before the
country, and that it is the foremost duty of the 
fiftieth congress at this, its last session, to submit
an amendment to the constitution forbidding states 
to disfranchise citizens on account of sex.  
	Resolved, That as a question of ethics the differ-
ence between putting a fraudulent ballot in the 
box and keeping a rightful ballot out, is nothing, 
and that we condemn the action which prevents 
women from casting a ballot at any election as a 
shameful evidence of the corruption of dominant 
political parties in this country.  
	WHEREAS, The legislature of Washington Ter-
ritory has twice voted for woman suffrage; women 
for the most part having gladly accepted and exer-
cised the right, Governor Squire in his report to 
the Secretary of the Interior in 1884, having de-
clared that it met the approval of a large majority 
of the people; and, 
	WHEREAS, In 1887, after the women had voted 
for three and a half years, the territorial supreme 
court pronounced the law invalid on the ground 
that the nature of the bill must be described in 
the title of the act; and, 
	WHEREAS, In January, 1888, another bill by the 
legislature gave to this law an explicit title; and 
the bill, again granting suffrage to women, was 
signed by Governor Semple, thus triumphantly 
showing the approval of the people, the legislature 
and the governor; and, 
	WHEREAS, The territorial supreme court in 
August, 1888, again rendered a decision against 
he right of the women of the territory to vote;


basing their decision upon the false assumption
that Congress had never delegated to the terri-
tories the right to define the status of their own
voters; and,
	WHEREAS, This decision strikes a blow at the
fundamental powers of the United States Con-
gress, confounding laws delegated to the territories
by the Organic Act of 1852, which vests in
the Legislatures the power to prescribe their
qualifications for voting and holding office—with
state governments which limit legislative enact-
ments by constitutions of their own making; thus
setting at naught the will of the people; there-
fore,
	Resolved, That we earnestly and respectfully
petition Congress that in passing an enabling act
or acts for the admission of the territories of
Washington, Dakota, Montana, Idaho, or New
Mexico, or any of them, there be incorporated a
clause allowing women to vote for delegates to
their state constitutional conventions, and at the
election for the adoption of the constitution in
every territory where the territorial legislature has
passed a law providing that women may vote, and
such a law has not been repealed by subsequent
territorial legislation. 		
	WHEREAS, In the year 1873 our leader, Susan
B. Anthony, was deprived of the right of trial by
jury, by a judge of the Supreme Court of the
United States, simply because she was a woman,
it is the duty of all women to resent the insult
thus offered to all womanhood, and demand of the
men of this closing century of constitution of
government such condemnation of this infamous
decision of Judge Ward Hunt as shall teach the
coming generation of voters that the welfare of
the republic demands that women be protected
equally with men in the exercise of citizenship,
and,
	WHEREAS, In the great Centennial Celebration
of 1876, women were denied all participation in
the public proceedings commemorating the birth
of the Declaration of Independence, though they
sought earnestly and respectfully to declare their
sentiments of loyalty to the great principles of
liberty and responsibility there enunciated,
they should now demand official recognition by
Congress and the State Legislature on all the
Boards of Commissioners, which, at the public
expense, are to initiate and carry out the august
ceremonials of the coming Constitutional Cele-
bration in New York, April, 1889, to the end that
taxation without representation shall no longer be
acknowledged a just and constitutional policy in
this government nominally of the people, there-
fore,
	Resolved, That a Committee be appointed by
the National W. S. A. to memoralize Congress
on this subject, and to take such other action as
shall bring before the enlightened manhood of
our country their duty of chivalry no less than
justice in this important matter.
	WHEREAS, The question of woman’s enfran-
chisement is fundamental and of paramount im-
portance, therefore,
	Resolved, That while the National Woman Suf-
frage Association welcomes and claims the sup-
port of persons of all parties and beliefs, it desires
to strongly reassert the position which it has held
of being non-partisan.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.
 
	On Saturday at 2 p.m., Feb. 16, 1888, a
meeting of the ladies of Beaver County was
held in the meeting house, for the purpose of
organizing a Woman Suffrage Association.
Upon motion Mrs. E. J. Bennett was elected
chairman and Mrs. Hettie Gentry, secretary.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. R. W. Tyler. The
chair then stated the object of the convention
and the different offices to be filled. Mrs. J.
P. M. Farnsworth was there-upon elected Presi-
dent of the Woman Suffrage Association of

[Column 2]

Beaver Co., with Mrs. S. C. Maeser as First,
Ida Marshall Second, and M. A. Tanner as
Third Vice-president, Lu F. Mansfield, Corres-
ponding Secretary, Mrs. M. Johnson, Secretary,
A. W. Farnsworth, Assistant Secretary and
Sarah M. Dell, Treasurer.
	The Executive Committee is as follows: E.
J. Bennett, Chairman, Harriet Farnsworth,
Mary Fernley, Annie Gunn, Stella Barton and
A. Cannon. A committee to draft By-laws
was elected. While the committee was out,
Mrs. Farnsworth addressed the meeting.

MRS. FARNSWORTH'S SPEECH

	I suppose, ladies, we are all aware of the ob-
ject of the present meeting, the causes which
bring us together to-day. Politics are some-
thing foreign to woman's past association, yet
in our city, at least, we hope to ere long better
understand and comprehend their uses, and
the broad provisions their universal rights give
to every citizen. The meaning of Politics is
the science of government, the science of gov-
ernment is the laws, regulations and principles
which control the acts and conduct of a peo-
ple.
	Woman's Suffrage is nothing new in the
world, it being half a century since Mrs.
Francis Wright of England, first introduced
the question in America, soon after Ernestine
L. Ross, of Poland, made her advent in our
country; since that time it has gradually gained
ground, yet its growth has been slow; battling
with bigotry and conservatism every step of
the way; its travels have been long, tedious
and not always victorious, yet its defeats
have all left their effects. Every art and
science of the world, also innovations of every
name and nature, have met with barriers and
had to outlive prejudices among men to
thoroughly and permanently establish them-
selves.
	Since the Romans invaded Britain hundreds
of years since, woman’s elevation has year after
year gained strength; in those dark ages she
was treated simply as a slave, girls being con-
sidered far inferior to boys, and none but the
priests or high officials were allowed to be in-
structed in reading and writing. I thank God
I did not live in those barbaric times.
	Ladies, before I proceed further with my
speech or lecture, I wish to tell you plainly the
position I take here to-day. I am a friend of
humanity, which comprises men and women;
they are inseparable; the one is dependent on
the other; neither alone can form a perfect
home, community or nation; we do not wish to
take any of the rights or laurels from men in
this undertaking. Were I acting or speaking
for personal aggrandizement, for individual
liberties and honor, I would not raise a finger
nor allow my voice to be heard in public. My
own domestic circle provides ample scope for
all the ability I possess, surrounded with the
necessaries of life, a loving, kind husband, who
regards me as his equal; I am sheltered in his
confidence and encircled by bright, precious
babes. God has been kind indeed to me. And
as in a former essay I have told you woman's
true sphere is the home, her noblest, her grand-
est position that of wife and mother, yet, I will
further qualify this assertion if in occupying
those places, or officiating in that office, she
can do justice to other professions, the simple
fact of her acting in her home circle, is no
reason why she should not in any other lawful
one. Some say it will make division in the
family for the wife to have a voice in the body
politic; I say it will not. Where is the hus-
band who does not trust, love and admire an
intelligent, self-reliant wife? Where are the
children who do not respect and reverence an
able, competent mother, who can not only pro-
vide for their physical wants, but also advise,
instruct and guide them in an intellectual
way?
	It was in 1848 Mrs. E. C. Stanton com

[Column 3]

memced her political campaign; since then she
has been made the President of the National
Woman Suffrage Association. She is a lady
of grand capabilities and has brought about
many good results by her indefatigable energy.
Her life and its noble example is too lengthy
to more than simply touch on; she is the only
lady in the United States that was ever put up
as delegate to Congress; of course she was de-
feated, yet that is nothing here nor there. As
a girl in her father's law office, she was often
heard to exclaim: "Why this distinction be-
tween the sexes? My father, though an honor-
able judge, a loving parent, is always repining
in this way: 'If you were only a boy.' "	*	*
	This question of woman’s suffrage is agitat-
ing the minds of the women of almost every
nation. In far off Russia, in Germany, Nor-
way, Sweden and Denmark, in fact all over
Europe, they are feeling the necessity of a
change in governmental affairs. They have
the support of many great, good men. Bis-
mark is opposed to woman's enfranchisement,
yet the Emperor Frederick was a strong advo-
cate of it. Queen Victoria is not in sympathy
with this movement. This is the only unqueenly
principle I have ever heard she possessed.
Gladstone, John Stuart Mills, Sidney Smith
and Lord Mansfield are, or were, the women's
true friends. I cannot do my subject justice,
ladies, I am not educated sufficiently, yet
heaven will aid every just and noble cause, and
we wish to gain nothing that is not founded
on truth, integrity and liberality. We seek
not to convince by any other than sound logic
and worthy reason.
	Susan B. Anthony, when a girl of fifteen,
taught a district school. The directors of the
school said she taught the best disciplined
school in the county, yet, because she was a
girl, paid her twelve dollars, and men teachers
twenty-four and thirty dollars a month.	*	*
*	*	In the large manufacturing cities many
have to stand from twelve to fourteen hours a
day, do equal work with men and receive only
half the wages. While in San Francisco, two
years ago, we visited a Chinese shoe factery,
owned by a gentlemanly Japanese. He showed
us through the establishment, and there among
185 of those filthy heathens twenty-five fair
white girls were employed just the same as
Chinamen. Girls, for there are some present
to-day, let not your only aim in life be to get a
husband; study to learn to be of some use in
the world; place your standard of womanhood
high.	*	*	*	We have
among the truly eminent women many who
lived a single life rather than marry one un-
worthy of them. Henry Ward Beecher once
refused to speak after a woman advocate of
woman enfranchisement—the beautiful, tal-
ented and highly aocomplished Annie E.
Dickenson. She had lectured in the Coopers'
Institute, N. Y., and Beecher was called for
loudly. "No," said he, "let no man raise his
voice after such heaven inspired eloquence.
Music is the only fitting tribute."	*	*
	Were women enfranchised the moral stand-
ard of society would be vastly improved, for
women would not, as a rule, from choice lead
any but moral lives. Thousands, yes, tens of
thousands of women are thrown on their own
resources for support and protection, unaided
by law, in gaining equal wages and positions.
What woman, when taken in court or before a
jury, would not rather be examined by refined,
intelligent ladies, than by men, perhaps rough
and coarse The injustice of women not hav-
ing a voice in the government of our country,
is not yet thoroughly understood. Girls should
study law. A few years ago Old Harvard
would not allow girls to enter the college, but
of late they have been admitted, and have
made bright records to the annex. America
has produced lady lawyers, doctors, teachers
and professors; she has sculptors, painters and
prima donnas, musicians and poets, editors, in-


ventors, hospital nurses, statesmen and house-
keepers. God grant that long before another
centennial year shall have passed away, the
last link in the chain of political vassalage
which binds woman to the dark ages of the
past, shall be broken, forever abandoned, and
the subject of woman suffrage properly ad-
justed, and free and equal rights given to all.
	Miss Stella Barton then sang a song fitted
to the occasion. Miss Aretta Young made a
speech, which was followed by the committee
on by-laws signifying their readiness to report.
The by-laws were read and adopted.
	The meeting then adjourned for one month.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S NATIONAL COUNCIL.
AN ADDRESS TO THE ORGANIZATIONS OF
WOMEN IN THE UNITED STATES.
	The International Council of Women, held
at Albaugh’s Opera House, Washington D. C.,
March 25 to April 1, 1888, convened by the
National Woman Suffrage Association, ad-
dressed by nearly one hundred women from
seven different countries, and representing fifty-
three national societies, was the first attempt to
unify the spirit and method of the world’s
organized womanhood. Under the nine general
topics of Education, Philanthropy, Temper-
ance, Industries, Professions, Legal Conditions,
Political Conditions, Moral Education and
Organization itself (as the essential prerequisite
of the most effective work in all these lines)—
a representative body of women took grave
counsel together, and, without one dissonant
note, the mighty chorus of harmonious pur-
pose sounded through the civilized world. It
is perfectly safe to say that never before did
the nations’ womanhood by a single demonstra-
tion so impress its thought, its sympathy and
its purpose upon the public mind. This
proved the well nigh resistless power of asso-
ciated effort. It was the harvest of forty
years spent in seed-sowing; the hour was ripe
for it; an earlier effort would have been prema-
ture, if not impossible.	
	The chief outcome of this great meeting
was a still wider evolution of woman’s work.
A permanent International Council was pro-
jected (to which none but National Councils
can be eligible as auxiliaries), and a National
Council for the United States was formed (to
which none but National Associations within
the United States can be eligible as auxiliaries).
The names of the officers of the National
Council are affixed to this address. The pur-
pose of this National Council is thus stated in
its constitution:
	“We, the women of the United States, sin-
cerely believing that the best good of our
homes and nation will be advanced by our own
greater unity of thought, sympathy and pur-
pose, and that an organized movement of
women will best conserve the highest good of
the family and the state, do hereby band our-
selves together in a confederation of workers
committed to the overthrow of all forms of
ignorance and injustice, and to the application
of the golden rule to society, custom and law.”
	The report of the committee that submitted
this constitution contains this additional state-
ment:
	“We are strongly in favor of such a federa-
tion, believing that it will incalculably increase
the world’s sum total of womanly courage,
efficiency and esprit de corps; that it will widen
our horizon, correct the tendency to an exaggera-
ted impression of one’s own work as compared
with that of others, and put the wisdom and
experience of each at the service of all.”
	The cosmopolitan character of the Council
is shown in Article II of its constitution, which
reads as follows:
	“This Council is organized in the interest of
no special propaganda, and has no power over

[Column 2]
its auxiliaries beyond that of suggestion and
sympathy, therefore, no society voting to be-
come auxiliary to this Council shall thereby
render itself liable to be interfered with in re-
spect to its complete organic unity, independ-
ence, or methods of work, or be committed to
any principle or method of any other society,
or to any utterance or act of the Council
itself beyond compliance with the terms of this
constitution.”
	These terms relate wholly to the conditions
of membership, which are as follows:
	“Any society of women, the nature of whose
work is satisfactory to the Executive Commit-
tee, as to either its undoubtedly national
character or national value, may become aux-
iliary to this Council by its own vote, and by
the payment of a sum amounting to half a
cent yearly per member, in addition to a trien-
nial payment of twenty-five dollars into the
treasury of the National Council, not later than
three months prior to its triennial meetings.”
	Article III reads as follows: “The officers
shall be a President, Vice-President at Large,
Corresponding Secretary, Recording Secretary,
and Treasurer. Each President of an auxiliary
society shall be exofficio Vice-President, of the
National Council, and the President of the
National Council shall be ex-officio Vice-Presi-
dent of the International Council. The five
general officers, with the Vice-Presidents, shall
constitute an Executive Committee, of which
seven members shall make a quorum, to con-
trol and provide for the general interests of the
Council.”
	The meetings of the National Council are to
be triennial, and the Committee of arrange-
ments for them is composed of the Executive
Committee and one delegate chosen by each
auxiliary society as its representative.
	This address is sent to all national organiza-
tions of women, earnestly inviting them to
become auxiliary to the Council by formal ac-
tion at their next Executive Session, to be re-
ported to our Corresponding Secretary, Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, Indianapolis, Ind.
	THE LEADING OBJECT OF THIS
NEW MOVEMENT is to aggregate all local
societies having the same object into national so-
cieties eligible to auxiliaryship in the National
Council of Women. For instance, the clubs
organized by women in all the leading cities
have thus far been isolated, but it is hoped
that a convention will be called within a year
to form a national federation of women’s clubs;
the influence of individual clubs would be in-
creased by coming into such a federation, and
the federation would be eligible to auxiliary-
ship in the National Council. The same is true
of the women’s protective agencies and many
other excellent societies that have been organ-
ized locally, but not as yet generally.
	It is confidently anticipated that all national
organizations of women will within the
next two years become auxiliary to the Nation-
al Council, and be ready to participate through
their representatives in the first triennial meet-
ing of the Woman’s National Council, to be
held in Washington in the spring of 1891.
	We also suggest the unification of all local
societies into women’s councils for each town
or city, and the aggregation of all state socie-
ties into state and territorial councils, that this
general plan of solidarity may be made help-
ful to the utmost possible degree, bringing
women of all sects and sections into mutual

	As all societies in the National Council are given equal
representation in that body by its Constitution, without
regard to the size of their membership, the general officers
of the Council have unanimously decided to recommend a
change in the Constitution at the first meeting of the
Council, in 1891, by which a uniform triennial fee of $100
shall be substituted for the annual and triennial fees above
mentioned; and the general officers will assume the re-
sponsibility of admitting societies to membership on this
new basis, if preferred, until such amendment can be
passed upon at the first meeting of the Council.

[Column 3]
acquaintance, efficiency and fellowship. The
simplicity of the plan is one of its chief ad-
vantages.
	The local Council of women would be made
up of the presidents of all societies of women
in a given locality, and might have a head-
quarters of its own, with an office secretary,
and hold meetings quarterly. This Council
would naturally enter unitedly upon such lines
of work as all Societies could agree upon. The
State Council would naturally hold meetings
annually. It is believed that such a plan of
interaction, combined with the organic inde-
pendence of each society, will broaden the out-
look of individual members and lead to larger
mutual toleration between organizations here-
tofore separate, and to a great degree non-sym-
pathetic; that it will do away with the over-
lapping of plans that now leads to much
waste of time and energy, and that its influence
would be sufficient to secure almost any local
reform either small or great.
	As an illustration of the practical working
of the plan, it may be stated that such a Coun-
cil of women might, if it were the general de-
sire, arrange for petitions from all societies of
women in any given town or city asking that
women should be placed on the school board;
on the different boards entrusted with the care
of public institutions for the defective, delin-
quent and dependent classes; asking for the
admission of women to membership, and to an
official standing, also, in local, county and state
organizations, such as press associations, medi-
cal associations, Sunday School and ecclesias-
tical associations, etc.; asking that the doors of
such schools and colleges as are not yet open
to women may be thrown open for their admis-
sion; asking for gymnastic and industrial
training for girls in the public schools; asking
for better protection for the home, and more
judicious penalties for all crimes against girls
and women.
In short, local and State Councils might take
the same action in local and state affairs that
the National Council will take regarding in-
stitutions and movements of national character
and scope. It will be readily seen that greatly
added force will come from any such move-
ment, whether local, state or national, when it
is backed by the united societies of the locality,
state or nation, and that with a small expendi-
ture of money and time, all these societies,
while carrying on separately their own indi-
vidual work for which they were organized,
may also do an immense work for womanhood
at large along the lines on which all can agree
to unite in sympathy, influence and effort.
To carry out such plans on so large a scale
will require time, but there is every reason to
believe that the women of the nation will per-
sist in a quiet but intelligent endeavor, having
in view the ends herein stated, until success
shall crown their great but altogether practic-
able movement.
	Already the organizations of women in
Chicago have formed a local Council, and a
similiar movement has been inaugurated in
Philadelphia, Detroit and Providence. Ohio
and Kansas have organized State Councils.
	Such unification of all local and State
organizations will at once illustrate on a small
scale what on a large scale the National
Council is expected to accomplish for the
welfare of humanity. But it is to be distinctly
understood that under the constitution of the
National Council only national societies of
women are eligible to membership therein.
	A form of constitution for local and State
Councils, and other hints and helps for organiz-
ing, will be furnished on application to Mrs.
May Wright Sewell, lnd., Corresponding Sec-
retary of the Woman’s National Council.
	Editors, writers and speakers are all earnest-
ly requested to further with their respective
facilities the plans herein stated. But we here
address ourselves especially TO THE LEADERS


AMONG WOMEN, urging upon their prayerful
thought the possibilities of blessing bound up
in the organized womanhood of our country—
a country which surpasses all others in its
bewildering danger and ineffable hope.
	Women have never yet united in large
numbers save for good purposes; it is safe to
predict that they never will. Their isolation
one from another is in the interest of brute
force; their combination means the dominance
of peace and spiritual power, the purification,
protection and coronation of the home; and
home is the shrine for whose sacred sake all
that is good and true on earth exists. Happy
are we who live to see the day when the women
of our native land are clasping hands with a
purpose so high and in a unity so holy which
may God bless.
FRANCES E. WILLARD, Evanston, Ill.,
	President of the Woman’s National Council
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Rochester, N. Y.
	Vice-President at Large.
M. LOUISE THOMAS, 680  Lexington Ave.,
	New York City,	
	Treasurer.
MARY F. EASTMAN, Tewksbury, Mass.,
	Recording Secretary.			
MAY WRIGHT SEWELL, 343 N. Pennsylvania
	Street, Indianapolis, Ind.,
	Corresponding Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.﻿


HIGGINSON SPEAKS FOR HIMSELF.
	Col. T. W. Higginson having been, as usual,
quoted by the attorney for the remonstrants,
as suggesting practical difficulties, the follow-
ing letter was read to the committee:
	CAMBRIDGE, Feb. 6, 1889.
DEAR MR. BLACKWELL:—I am sorry that I
must be in New York on Friday; but I will
authorize you to say to the committee, if you
think best, that I hope that they will report in
favor of extending suffrage to women. I think
there can be now no doubt that they will exer-
cise it freely, if they have the opportunity.
That they will always exercise it wisely, espe-
cially at first, is not to be expected. Men do
not always vote wisely, though they have had
much more practice than women. All great
extensions of the suffrage bring in a new and
inexperienced class, and the immediate results
are not always good. But the ultimate result
is always to educate and enlighten the emanci-
pated class, and to benefit the whole community
in the end. Women will probably vote, on
the whole, quite as judiciously as men do; and
they need the ballot for self-respect and for
self-protection.
	Very truly yours,
THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The vote on the municipal woman suffrage
bill in the Ohio House of Representatives
stood 36 to 36, and the bill was lost. But to
get a tie vote in the Legislature of Ohio,
which has hitherto been exceedingly conserva-
tive on the suffrage question, is almost a victory
in itself.
	Miss Amelia B. Edwards, the author, who
expects soon to visit America, has traveled ex-
tensively. Most of her time of late years has
been spent in the service of the Egyptian Ex-
ploration Society. The descriptions in her
novels are carefully verified, and often two
years pass after a story is begun before it is
finished.
	In the U. S. Senate, Feb. 14, Mr. Mander-
son, of Nebraska, introduced a bill providing
that all citizens of the United States having
the qualifications requisite for electors in the
most numerous branch of any State or Terri-


torial Legislature shall be entitled and allowed
to vote at any election for representative or
delegate in the Congress of the United States
without distinction of sex, any constitution,
laws, customs, usage or regulation of any State
or Territory to the contrary notwithstanding.
—Ex.


OBITUARY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER;—The Twentieth Ward branch of the
Relief Society, this city, has recently been called upon to
part with one of its most faithful and energetic members.
	Sister Mary Ann Hodson died of pneumonia, Jan. 26,
1889, aged 63 years. Deceased was born in Thael, near
Wells, Somersetshire, England. Embraced the Gospel in
Brynmawr, Breconshire, in 1851; emigrated to Utah in
1871. Held the office of teacher in the Society above
named for fifteen years, in which she proved herself re-
markably diligent and efficient.
	At her funeral, held in the 20th Ward meeting house,
Jan. 27th, a large and attentive congregation listened to
highly instructive remarks from Bishop George Romney
and several other leading members of the ward. Each of
the speakers bore testimony to the excellent character and
many good works of Sister Hodson. While some of the
brethren who would have spoken in eulogistic terms of her
ministry in their households, as an Angel of Mercy in times
of sorrow and distress, were so moved to tears and over-
come by emotions, as to be unable to give utterance to their
feelings. This, as our Bishop remarked and the listeners
felt, was “the most sublime eloquence and touching tribute
that could be offered.”
	Although, by her summons hence, we feel that we have
lost a dear friend and able helper in our Society, we rejoice
in anticipation of a blessed reunion with her, if we can only
be as faithful as she has been, until our earthly mission shall
also be fulfilled.
	L. GREENE RICHARDS,
In behalf of the 20th Ward Relief Society.
	JANE MILLER, President.
Salt Lake City, Feb. 6, 1889.


BEAVER Y. L. M. I. A.
	In memory of Sister Mona Schofield Olsen, who died
Jan. 26th 1889:
	Whereas, our sister, who has departed this life in her
early youth, was a faithful member of this Association for
a number of years, ever prompt in the performance of the
duties devolving upon her, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, as an Association, mourn the sud-
den death of our sister, that we miss her pleasant face and
sweet voice from our meetings, and that we extend our
sincere and heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved young hus-
band, to her little babe, deprived of a mother’s loving care,
and to her parents, brothers, sisters, and to all her former
friends and associates.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the sorrowing husband and parents, that a copy be sent to
the Utonian and the Woman’s Exponent for publication,
and also recorded in the books of this Association.
	E. J. BENNETT, Prest.
	A. W. FARNSWORTH.

Are not life’s burdens beyond endurance? 
Questions the mourner’s sad heart,
But a comforting voice breathes assurance,
Not long you’ll remain apart;
She has been called as one of God’s chosen
To labor in a brighter land;
’Tis by His will that she's been taken—
Called from our mortal band.

’Tis left for us to try and profit
By her life’s crosses so nobly borne;
It is left for us to strive to mend
The poor hearts by sorrow torn.
Be comforted, we kindly say,
And acknowledge God’s hand, of love,
Your dear one has been justly called
To the beautiful realms above.

Parents your child has left a name—
’Tis an honor to her and you,
Free from cruel guilt or shame, 
And ’tis loved by not a few.
As child and maiden she was true loved,
The favored of her parents’ home.


As life companion, a gentle, true,
Kind woman she was known.

As friend and associate she’s proven
So noble, pure and good,
As a member of our Mutual band
At duty’s post she stood.
On father, mother, brothers, sisters,
We ask God’s blessing to descend;
Yes, in the heart of every mourner
May a soothing solace wend.

And heal the wounded heart of husband,
He who’s been so tried and true;
Hover o’er her precious infant
Whom its mother scarcely knew.
Yes, place your strong arm round your babe,
Keep him close to you and God;
In the paths of truth and virtue,
E’en the paths his mother trod.

And ere his infancy hath faded,
Or to manhood he’ll attain,		
Teach his lips and heart to love
His mother’s sacred name;
And when this short life is ended,
And no more on earth you’ll roam,
At the pearly gates of heaven
Mona’ll wait to welcome you home.


NOTICE.
	To all those who intend to raise the silk
worms this season, please let them inform me
at the earliest date possible the quantity of
eggs they may require, so I can make a report
to the Departure of Agriculture to obtain the
same, with the number of trees for feed.
D. GRAVES, Supt. Silk Industry.
Provo, Feb. 16, 1889.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in	
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 17	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1889.	No. 20.


MRS. CLEVELAND.

Her reign was o’er, but old and young
Prayed blessings on her as she passed,
And every heart and every tongue
Spake, “ne’er was she surpassed.”

Her gracious smile, with smiles obeyed,
Her dignity by naught abused;
These are the scepters she has swayed,
The only power she used.

What greater are there! none more sure
To rule the hearts of other men,
And these she held, and no heart truer
Will hold such sway again.

Her reign passed by in merry dearth
Of sadnes, and her written fame;
Must live as long as woman’s worth
Gives grace to woman’s name.

For love full well of high and low,
With smiling lips and graceful mien.
She stepped from her white portico
Uncrowned, but still a queen! 
“Judge.”	L. MORGAN SMITH.


GOLDEN WEDDING.
"Hear the mellow wedding bells—
Golden bells.”

Ring soft and sweet—O golden bell—
Ring pure and strong—O golden bell,
Now rise, now fall, the chorus swell,
The precious story tell, ah, tell,
How fifty years have flown away,
Since Pallas’ happy wedding day!
Adown the years, far, far away—
A sweet girl-bride, and grown so gray,
see them plainly, as you say,
				O golden bell!

A home so cosy, snug and neat,
I see, I see,
I hear a patter of childish feet,
And baby voices calling sweet,
And full of glee.
The happy chorus rises, swells,
To bursting with the joy it tells,
O, golden bells.

As your swaying tongue goes to and fro,
I watch the years, they come and go—
They bring their joy and bring their woe;
For all must know the ebb and flow
Of grief and pleasure, here below.
Like mists upon the mountains height,
A rain of tears obscures the sight;
'Twas here a precious hope, saw blight,
The veil hung dark as inky night.
Where mists of tears their hopes bewail
Ring visions of the “holy Grail,”
That brings redemption, rends the veil,
Ring Christ’s promise, that will not fail,
O, golden bell.

Now as you back and forward swing.
Sweet bells, what visions pure you bring.
Upon her hand, I see a ring
Worn to a tiny golden string;
Two heads so white with winter’s rime.
Two hearts, true, as in life’s spring time;
Such love doth mark their lives sublime,
And well deserves a gladsome chime 
Of golden bells.

Swing soft and low, ye bells of gold
The story ever new, the old.
The dear sweet story, is almost told,
How true love never shall grow cold
Though mortal heart be dust and mold.
Immortal born its home’s above
For God is love, yes, God is love
Ring happy bells!


Lovingly inscribed to my Aunt and Uncle on the 50th
anniversary of their wedding day.
	Woodina, Feb. 21, 1889.


[For the EXPONENT.]
	SOME OF THE BEST AUTHORS.

	The universality with which the best authors
are conceded their position in English litera-
ture, should at once quell any controversy
in the matter, and yet opinions, tastes and cul-
ture differ, and a writer thoroughly loved and
admired by one reader, may be considered in-
sipid, sickly sentimental, by another. Truly
one is led to exclaim, “Oh, poetry! what license
has been taken in thy name,” when reading
some of the trash that floats around in our
literary age. If quantity were a standard of
poetry and literature, we could not fail to be- 
come thoroughly well read, but, thank fate, it
is not quantity, but quality that makes the
poet. It is to be feared that the former has
the precedence at present. Let us hope that the
strength and originality of the older poets is not
forever lost. But I did not intend to berate our
age, our customs, or our effeminacy, our self-con-
ceit, or the glory of our wonderful nineteenth
century; “they who live in homes of glass should
never throw a stone,” and it suddenly occurred
to us that ours was very thin and brittle !
	About two years ago one of our best Ameri-
can writers, Mr. Maurice Thompson, of Ohio,
had the temerity to publish an article on the
subject of Shakespeare, somewhat deprecia-
tory of the exalted throne upon which the
much applauded dramatist was seated. Actu-
ally depreciatory, but, to the idea of this
unqualified reader, full of good, independent,
common sense. Mr. Thompson received what
he might have expected, a sound scoring by
one of your Shakespearian students, who re-
ceived it as a personal affront that his little
god was not held in the same estimation by
each individual of this little world as by him-
self. Mr. Thompson seemed to think that his
"glasshouse” was completely broken, and
actually thanked the kind friend who had
performed for him the task of giving him the
“giftie” to “see himsel as ithers” saw him.
This would have been all right, but somehow
we could never get over the idea that Maurice
Thompson had taken hold of the right handle.
We never could see any reason for being
ashamed to confess to a depreciative feeling
for the monarch of the drama.
	God speed the day when at least many of
the sayings of Shakespeare, the great English
dramatist, will be forever lost in the light of
modern civilization ! It is surely, at least, one-
sided to study Shakespeare, quote Shakespeare,
act and worship Shakespeare to the exclusion
of everything else, But, there ! we confess to
being a very incompetent critic. Perhaps our
little world is so remote from the sun as to re-
ceive its light but as a faint star.
	Let us, then, descend from the discussion of
a subject too remote and high for our under-
standing, for truly the erudite give us some
interpretations of their favorite poet, that are
too intricate for the understanding of mere
ordinary minds.
	Some time ago we came across the following
little poem, better suited to our taste and un-
derstanding than the magnificent periods of
the greater writer. It was written by the
sweet English lady, Mrs. Hemans, and surely
deserves a high rank in a collection of the
best English literature:


TO THE BLUE ANEMONE.
		Flower of starry clearness bright,
		Quivering urn of color’d light,
		Hast thou drawn thy cup’s rich dye
		From the intenseness of the sky?
		From a long, long fervent gaze
		Through the year’s first golden days;
		Up that blue and silent deep,
		Where, like things of sculptured sleep,
		Alabaster clouds repose
		Witb the sunshine on their snows?
		Thither was thy heart’s love turning,
		Like a censer ever burning,
		Till the purple Heavens in thee,
		Set their smile, Anemone?

		Or can those warm tints be caught
		Each from some quick glow of thought?
		So much of bright soul there seems
		In thy bendings and thy gleams,
		So much thy sweet life resembles
		That which feels and weeps and trembles,
		I could deem thee spirit fill’d,
		As a reed by music thrilled,
		When thy being I behold
		To each loving breath unfold,
		Or like woman’s willowy form,
		Shrink before the gathering storm, 	
		I could ask a voice from thee,
		Delicate Anemone !

		Flower ! the laurel still may shed
		Brightness 'round the victor’s head,
		And the rose in beauty’s hair
		Still its festal glory wear,
		And the willow leaves droop o’er
		Brows which love sustains no more:
		But by living rays refined,	
		Thou, the trembler of the wind,
		Thou, the spiritual flower,
		Sentient of each breeze and shower,
		Thou, rejoicing in the skies,
		And transpierced with all their dyes:
		Breathing rare,with light o’er-flowing,
		Gemlike to thy centre glowing,
		Thou the poet’s type shall be,
		Flower of soul, Anemone !
	We were about to quote another of Mrs.
Heman’s beautiful poems, but were caught in
a labyrinth of lovely things, so exquisite, that
to make a choice were a difficult matter. “Our
Daily Paths,” “Kindred Hearts,” “The Dial
of Flowers,” “Despondency and Aspiration,”
“The Invocation,” “The Hour of Prayer,” and
many others are more than favorites. Every
true lover of poetry should have a copy of Mrs.
Hemans, which can be obtained of John B.
Alden,393 Pearl St. N. Y., beautifully bound in
half Russia,marbled edges,post paid,sixty cents.
	We will close this article with another quota-
tion from this favorite author:
	Forgive, O Father ! if presumptuous thought
		Too daringly in aspiration rise !
	Let not thy child all vainly have been taught
		By weakness, and by wonderings, and by sighs
	Of sad confession! lowly be my heart,
		And on its penitential altar spread
	The offerings worthless, till thy grace impart 
		The fire from Heaven, whose touch alone can shed
	Life, radiance, virtue ! let that vitat spark
	Pierce my whole being, wildered else and dark !
	Thine are all holy things—O, make me Thine,
	So shall I too be pure—a living shrine
	Unto that spirit, which goes forth from Thee,
	Strong and divinely free.
	Bearing thy gifts of wisdom on its flight,
	And brooding o’er them with a dove-like wing,
	Till thought, word, song, to thee in worship spring,
	Immortally endowed for liberty and light.”—
				Despondency and Aspiration.
							BIRDIE CLYDE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿YOUNG WRITERS.

“He that writes,
Or makes a feast, more certainly invites
His judges than his friends; there’s not a guest
But will find something wanting, or ill-drest.”
	
	There is perhaps not a class of people in the
world who are more severely criticized than
writers; and I was about to say, they are the
most sensitive, and suffer most under it; that
may be wrong, however I do not assert it as 
positive.  We hear remarks occasionally some-
thing like these: “There are too many books;”
“There are too many scriblers who fancy they
can write, who push their works upon the pub-
lic;” “The world is full of them, we don’t
want so much rhyming and scribbling, we
want real poetry and prose, worth careful
reading;” “We want depth of thought and
sentiment, and eloquent and brilliant expres-
sion; not so many common place writers.” All
this is very discouraging to the young, to the
beginner, who must first try his skill and
strength in the path of literature; I know some
will say that one should keep the first efforts to 
themselves, but the writer is not a good critic,
he cannot possibly judge, without prejudice in
favor of his own work; of course he should
revise, correct and re-write, but some one else
must be the judge.  The world is not made up 
of geniuses, in fact they are very few, and
those few are often in need of a balance.  If
only literary geniuses produced books and 
writings, the world would be scantily provided
with literature; great writers are about as
scarce as great singers, and what should we do
in all our little villages, in all our homes, our
schools, and our churches, if people refused to
sing because some one had succeeded in achiev-
ing a great musical triumph, and possessed a 
voice like a nightingale, and had set the world
in a furore; if such were the case the world
would not be so full of music as it is, and
many a sad heart would lack the sweet consola-
tion and healing balm that comes through the
soothing influence of song; it is a blessed thing,
to be able to sing, or play on a musical instru-
ment.  It gives relief to the feelings, and
voice and expression to the holiest emotions
of the soul; then let us encourage all that
which elevates and purifies; and whatever
opens up avenues for the exalted emotions of
the human soul, tends to fuller development of
the inner life and promotes that higher culture,
which is a step in advancement towards the ex-
altation we all desire to attain.
	Instead of discouraging those who have a 
desire to write, even though their efforts are
poor, rather stimulate them to greater dili-
gence, and more presistent effort, in cultivating
the talent with which they have been endowed,
or in pouring forth the song which is welling 
up in the soul.  We have not too many writers,
nor too many books in my humble opinion.
We had far better pay out more money for
books and reading matter, and less for many
other things not so useful or pleasant in a 
home.  I hope to see the day when in every
home in the land, there will be a library of 
choice books and papers, suited to different
tastes, and also musical instruments, and other
attractions for a home that will elevate the
minds of the inmates and produce a higher
mental and spiritual atmosphere, and make 
mankind more godlike in intelligence, which is
said to be the glory of God, Himself. 
	How foolish it would be when one has a song
upon his lips not to pour it forth, because some
who are learned and able will criticise him
severely and unjustly; such a one is unjust to
himself, and is not making use of the talent
committed to his keeping, and will one day be
held accountable for hiding it.  He indeed
lacks fortitude, and needs encouragement from
those who are stronger or braver.  St. Paul
says, let those who are strong bear the burdens
[Column 2]
of those who are weak, and if we truly loved
one another we would be more willing to do
this;  but instead of such being the case,
many are ready to pull down and discourage
those who are using their best endeavors to
benefit the world of mankind, and often crush
the one who is struggling against difficulties,
when they might reach out and help him; a
little influence to support one in making an
earnest effort to develope his gifts is most
welcome, and the gratitude of the receiver is
ample recompense, for it is always more blessed
to give than to receive.
	I know it is said true genius will surmount
every difficulty and rise triumphantly in the 
greatest emergency, but unless the genius has
an indomitable will, or destiny has given him
a particular mission to fill, such will not of
necessity be the case; most geniuses have had
patrons, men or women of influence, who have
brought them forward, for true merit is modest
and retiring, besides, geniuses are rare—they
are like precious diamonds—but there are a 
quantity of other gems, and people with one
talent or two are much more common in this
world than those gifted with ten.
	Every human soul wants some development
mentally, and one day we shall become more
fully alive to this truth.  In the Gospel there 
is full scope for this development if it were un-
derstood.  There are many superior advantages
for the Latter-day Saints that will, when com-
prehended, more fully satisfy the yearnings of
the human soul. But I am anticipating, to come back to the
question under consideration in regard to writ-
ing and writers, we would say, never shrink
from a duty because there is another who can 
perform it better, let not your heart fail you
from writing a few lines because you are not
equal to Thackeray, or Carlyle, or George
Eliot, or George Sand, or Harriet Beecher
Stowe, but write in your own simple, unaffected,
unpretentious style, and who knows but many
people may be better pleased and more edified
than with some heavy article from the pen of a 
great writer.  We want variety, and origin-
ality is always more acceptable than affecta-
tion.
	Should a star refuse to shine because some 
other more brilliant casts a shadow over it—
it may be even the more lovely?  What if the
sparrow were to decline to sing because the 
robin's song was more admired.  Each one
may shine in his own way, it is not noble to
refuse to do what one has the ability and talent
to perform; but it is very ignoble to discourage
another in any pursuit or profession; we may
advise, if we think one has mistaken his call-
ing, and so be helpful to a friend.
	“Mormonism” is rich in themes for the pro-
duction of literature, and one may find subject
for rhyme, for poetry, for a variety of prose
works, for the drama, and for the most pro-
found writings; and though our home writers
may not be very highly esteemed at present,
and their works not so meritorious, yet those 
who desire to see Utah take an honorable place 
in the nation should encourage the author, and
help sustain literary labor. “Despise not the
day of small things,” when we see the blossom
it is significant of fruit; but the garden of 
literature wants great attention, careful culling,
weeding and pruning.  Our young people
should try to do their literary work well, and
not be offended if they are not successful in 
being recognized at first.
	One grave fault of inexperienced writers is
that they are fearful of revising and correcting
lest they lose the inspiration; they have an 
idea that poets are inspired, and themes
actually given them word for word, and that
any correction would detract from the genuine-
ness of its inspirationality.  The Lord has
given us our intellect—are we to make no use
of it?  Has he to put words in our mouths
[Column 3]
without our ever exerting ourselves. Cer-
tainly not.  He expects us to apply our
minds to gain knowledge and understand-
ing, and seek diligently after wisdom. Such
“a poem was given me,” you will hear one say.
It was certainly expected you would polish it 
then.  As well say the marble cut from the
quarry is the Lord’s work, and we shall mar
it if we attempt to shape or polish it.  I
would advise the young author to do his work
well, to review and revise, and let his friends
judge, and even then not be disappointed if
the publishers should return it to him.  Do
not feel that you can never write again because
your first manuscript was rejected; many of 
those who are now the best writers of the day
have had this experience.  Sing your song, it
will cheer and elevate yourself if no other,
and some poor lone one may listen and be
comforted thereby.  If you are not capable of
reaching the highest notes, make as much
melody as possible on the lower ones, and
leave the higher for more cultivated or daring
songsters; but be sure and sing; your heart
will be expanded by the notes you strike, and 
others may hear and be gladdened.
	The humble daisy blossoming by the way-
side cheers the weary traveler, and has as
many admirers as the gayest flower that
blooms in the garden; so it often is with the
homely writer, he blesses the lowly and the
humble; they comprehend and appreciate him;
his simple language is music to them and they
laugh at the critics, who deem his efforts a 
failure.  I rejoice to see progress in this direction
and I feel sure there might be much more were
some encouragement held out to stimulate young
writers.  If those who have means and influ-
ence would become patrons of literature, and 
draw out some of the talent that at present is
buried in obscurity, the community might be 
enriched, for there must from natural conse-
quences be a mine of wealth in the hearts and
minds of the young people born and reared
amidst these mountain vales. 
						AUNT EM.


A GENTILE'S TESTIMONY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In justice to my wife, I must write you a
few lines, which you may publish if you like.
	Sister Dubois has had a severe sickness
during the winter, and has been attended to by
the members of the Relief Society in particu-
lar, and by the good people of Santaquin
in general, with such tender care and attention
that she feels to express her gratitude and sin-
cere thanks to all those who assisted in, or ad-
ministered to her during her prostration.
	During the three months of her illness—
which was caused by a premature confinement
—she was for three weeks lying at the point of
death, and a good many of my neighbors, like
myself, thought that I was going to lose her,
and it seemed that nothing short of a miracle
could restore her to health.
	But she is a very good Saint, and a strong
believer in the gift of healing by the laying
on of hands by the Elders of her Church, and
as soon as the brethren had administered unto
her she whispered to me that she would get
well again some day. Thank God! she is at
present able to resume her duties again and
take care of her eight children.
	Poor unbeliever as I am. I almost envy her
her faith in the Gospel. It puts me in mind
of a great French writer, Chateaubiand, who
in his "Geni du Christianisme," portrays the
powerful influence the mind has on the consti-
tution.
		C. S. D. B.


London is to have police-matrons.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AUNT CLARA.

And is she gone? that gentle soul,
	Passed to another sphere?
The rapturous joy which greets her there!
	The bitter sorrow here!

No purer spirit ever dwelt
	Within an earthly frame;
Her charity reached every heart—
	It sought the blind the lame.

Did she e'er laugh? I do not know,
	But ever on her face
There shone a lovely cheerfulness,
	That lent it heavenly grace.

Aye, she could weep. Such tender tears,
	For others' woes they fell;
So keen she felt your every smart,
	Her own forgot to tell.

Generous? Our part we gladly tell,
	The poor could tell the whole,
And kind? Her very presence was
	A benediction to the soul.

Rest in earth, sweet rest in heaven,
	So let our sorrow cease.
Her ways were ways of pleasantness,
	And all her words were Peace!

		SUSA YOUNG GATES.


[For the Exponent.]	
TO AMANDA. 

Sweet friend of my childhood, kind friend of my youth,
Firm guardian of virtue, bright lover of truth,
Thy sleep shall be peaceful, unbroken thy rest,
Thy spirit, disburdened, shall sleep on God's breast.

Oh, well we remember, sweet spirit, the light
God lent us a while ere it sank in the night—
In the night we call death; yet in vain do we see,
For the day-spring of glory envelopeth thee.

Oh, many may envy thy happier lot,
To die in thy beauty, to live unforgot
In the hearts of thy loved ones, who ever will shed
The tear of affection, rememb'ring thee dead. 

In songs with the angels thou taketh thy part,
The glory of Heaven now filleth thine heart.
Earth's woes now may languish, no more for thy brow
Shall they weave cruel thorns—thou art slumbering now.

The river of Heaven now laveth thy feet,
Fair angels shall twine thee a bridal wreath sweet,
And am'ranth immortla shall crown thy fair head
Oh, in heaven they deem thee not, dear one, as dead!

Sweet, sweet be thy slumber, unbroken thy rest,
Sleep, sweet as a babe, on the Savior's kind breast;
God grant we meet thee on Heaven's bright shore,
To part with thee, darling, in grief nevermore!

		RUBY LAMONT.
Beaver, Utah.


HE AND SHE.

TRANSLATED O. D. A. FROM DE GENESTET.

I once knew a wife and husband,
	An orthodox preacher was he;
He faithfully stuck to the doctrine;
	In little things faithful was she.

He had a well-known reputation
	Of piety—from his own kind;
Wherever she went she spread round her
	The bliss of a true, loving mind.

He knew every word of the Scriptures;
	She knew God her Father to be:
Theology was his chief science;
	God's child and God's image was she.

He criticised sermons and preachers,
	'Gainst heresy sharply he fought,
No weakness escaped his attention;
	She silently did what she ought.


His face had a rigid expression;
	She always content looked, and gay,
Religion his countenance darkened,
	And brightened hers all the long day.

He opened or shut out from heaven,
	As if heaven's keys he possessed;
She inwardly carried a heaven
	Of love and of peace in her breast.

In meetings for schools, or for missions,
	He spoke with great unction and verve;
She quietly, at her own fireside,
	Tried God and her neighbors to serve.

In speaking and thinking and preaching
	He had the cold doctrine alone;
In working and living and loving,
	A light in the darkness she shone.

I knew them, and thought it a pity
	That husband and wife were not "one;"
His strength and her rich love united,
	What prodigies they could have done!

		—Unity


[Column 1]

REMARKS ON TITHING BY A
SISTER.

	"They who are tithed shall not be burned,"
so saith the good book. Who are tithed that
they may escape? We read again, "The earth
shall be burned, and few men be left." A cer-
tain marshal has been appointed receiver of
the property of the Church of Jesus Christ of,
Latter-day Saints. This reminds me of an in-
scription placed oyer the body of our Savior.
What does this language imply? It is evident
to any reflecting mind that they who meddle
with such things will have to give an account
to Christ for taking that which was given ac-
cording to His word. He did by command-
ment require the Latter-day Saints to pay
tithing. And with willing hearts and hands
they comply and pay a tenth of their in-
crease.
	Now, dear Saints, do not falter, but pay the
best you have and the first. By doing this
you will receive a greater blessing. Malachi,
iii, 10: "Bring ye all the tithes into the store-
house, that there may be meat in mine house,
and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of
hosts, if I will not open you the windows of
heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that
there shall not be room enough to receive it."
The people constitute the Church of Christ,
and they own the property. God will sustain
them in their rights. They gave it willingly
for the building up of God's kingdom, and did
not retain it to aggrandize themselves. The peo-
ple appointed honorable men by their voice, in
whom they put their trust and confidence, with
power to appropriate it for that purpose. This
is the kingdom that Daniel saw set up on the
earth in the last days, in the interpretation of
Nebuchednezzar's dream. Daniel ii, 44:
"And in the days of these kings shall the
God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall
never be destroyed, and the kingdom shall not
be left to other people, but it shall break in
pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it
shall stand forever." "There was a stone cut
out without hands, which smote the image and
became a great mountain, and filled the whole
earth." What was in the dream was to be in
the latter days, when there would be ten kings
to represent the ten toes of the great image.
We read that all things will be restored as at
the beginning. The word to the Latter-day
Saints is, "Keep my law of tithing, which
shall be a standing law to my people forever."
Doctrine and Covenants. St. John i: "In the
beginning was the Word, and the Word was
with God, and the Word was God." This the
Latter-day Saints believe, that they must live
by every word that proceedeth out of the
mouth of God. They believe the Bible to be
the word of God, that they should put works
with their faith. No one that is not a member

[Column 2]

of the Church of Christ has any right to use
or handle its effects, and they who do will be
in the same predicament as the enemies of the
Jews, when they took the ark of the covenant,
they were visited with God's judgments and
were glad to return it, as God would not suffer
it to be polluted, and the sacred things to be
destroyed which it contained.
	The ten commandments were preserved there-
in and handed down to us, one of them reads
thus: "Thou shalt not covet anything thy
neighbor hath." Yet what the Latter-day
Saints possess is coveted, their lands and
chattels, and are taken by a process of law
to suit their own partial conceptions. Why
are the learned lawyers and Congressmen so
tenacious about a few, that were expelled
from civilization and sacrificed all they had of
earthly possessions. What was their great
offense? They connected themselves with the
true Church of Christ, wherein is unity, from
the beginning in the Church of Christ we are
instructed and led by the spirit of prophecy,
which is the word of God and coming from
Him is in full force through His servants hold-
ing the eternal Priesthood, and their word will
have its fulfilment spoken by the power of the
Holy Ghost, knowledge comes through this
source to the people and they become one, and
except they are, Christ said, "They are not
His." What then are our opposers trying to
do? Disunite us, that we shall not be Christ's.
But we will with our voice and mind pay our
tithes and obey Him. Malachi: "Then they
that feared the Lord spoke often one to another;
and a book of remembrance was written before
him for them that feared the Lord, and that
thought upon his name."
	"And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of
hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels;
and I will spare them, as a man spareth his
own son that serveth him."
	"Then shall ye return, and discern between
the righteous and the wicked, between him
that serveth God and him that serveth him
not." Some think, that this was spoken only to
the house of Israel, but it was plainly to the
righteous, that thought upon the name of the
Lord. We read that all shall be rewarded
according to the deeds done in the body
whether good or evil, and all will be judged
out of the books written. No weapon formed
against Zion shall prosper. The pen that is
weilded to bear false witness, or make partial
laws for this people will fail and come to
naught. They are far reaching, does not the
Catholic church and other churches own enough
property to buy out the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints? They pay their minis-
ters big salaries, and rent their pews for a sum
of money which we cannot afford. The scrip-
tures say the Gospel is free to all mankind.
	St. John: "Saw an angel flying through the
midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gos-
pel to preach to every nation." Are the people
any more prepared to received it now, at this
time, than in the days of our Lord and Savior.
He will have his Gospel preached just the
same now as then. Who will receive it, in its
purity and fulness? The Latter-day Saints
who are pure in heart, and persecuted for the
truth's sake. A tithed people.
	M. A. M. PRATT.


There are 3000 women in charge of post-
offices in the United States.
	There are fifteen States in the Union where,
if the wife was unchaste at the time of mar-
raige, unknown to the husband, proof of the
fact entitles the husband to a divorce. There
is only one State (West Virginia) where, if the
husband was unchaste before marriage, un-
known to the wife, proof of the fact entitles
the wife to a divorce. Even in West Virginia
he must have been notoriously licentious.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MARCH 15, 1889.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The Fifty-ninth Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, will
commence at 10 o'clock on Saturday morning,
April 6th, 1889, in the Tabernacle, in Salt Lake
City.
	The officers and members of the Church are
cordially invited to attend.
		WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	In behalf of the Twelve Apostles.


[Column 1]

﻿THE NEW PRESIDENT.

	Benjamin Harrison, the new President who
has just been inaugurated, is a native of Indiana,
and grandson of the former president of the
same name and his great-grandfather was con-
spicuous during the Revolutionary war. This illus-
trious progenitor of the President was Speaker of
the House of Burgesses, of Virginia, in the early
period of the history of the United States, and
afterwards Delegate to the Continental Congress,
and elected Governor of Virginia three times. He
voted for the Declaration of Independence, and
it also bears his signature.
	His grandfather William Henry Harrison was
a distinguished military man, his successes in
that time were quite notable in history, he was
engaged in several historical conflicts. In the
war of 1812 "he had command of one of the three
divisions of the American army, the Army of the
North West." Harrison run for president against
Van Buren in 1836, and his popularity as a suit-
able leader of the people during that campaign
became so apparent that he was renominated in
1840.
	The writer well remembers the great enthus-
iasn that spread through the country at that time.
The novelty of the paraphernalia exhibited during
the electioneering has probably much to do with the
impressions made upon the populace and natur-
ally enough too; log houses in miniature and
barrels marked "hard cider," and pictures of the
same were displayed at every available time and
place. The songs were all of the same sort of
style and characteristic of the backwoods and
Indian battles. The ringing chorus of "Tippe-
canoe and Tyler too," has never quite died out
although nearly half a century has since elapsed.
	Notwithstanding the uncommon eclat that
ushered in the Harrison administration and the 
hopes entertained of the success of the Republi-
can party with him as its acknowledged leader—
the people were doomed to disappointment, for in
one month from the day of his innuguration, he
lay prostrate and lifeless, in the White House
whither he had gone only such a short time before
buoyant with hope, and amid the rejoicings of the
multitudes that throng the Capitol on these great

[Column 2]

occasions. It was thought with Daniel Webster
as Secretary of State, and an able Cabinet of
some of the wisest men of the age, the people had
a right to expect a brilliant term; but in this as in
many other instances, "man proposes and God
disposes."
	The father of the new President was the third
son of the one in whose honor so many camp fires
were built and stump speeches made in 1840,
strange to say, however, John Scott Harrison was
a Democrat in politics, and not at all ambitious for
office, although he was twice elected to Congress
from his district, and in 1861 nominated by the
Democratic State Convention for Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor of Ohio, but he declined the honor, a fact
which might seem questionable to the office-
seekers of to-day, were it not too well authenti-
cated. His second son was the newly-elected
President, Benjamin Harrison, who was born in
North Bend, Ohio, August 20, 1833.
	Mrs. Harrison, the present mistress of the
White House is a minister's daughter, the Rev.
John W. Scott, D. D., of Oxford, Ohio. Mr.
and Mrs. Harrison were married October 20,
1853, when the young man was only twenty
years of age, and his bride seventeen. They
had already been engaged two years. Soon
after their marriage they moved to Indiana-
polis, where they have ever since resided. Mrs.
Harrison is said to be "bright, well-read, accom-
plished, an artist, and in character dignified,
hearty and sympatheric." She has not allowed
herself to be outgrown by her husband intellec-
tually, but has kept up with him in those pursuits
that entitle her to rank by his side even at the
nation's capitol. She has had some practical ex-
perience in Washington society, having lived
there while her husband was in the Senate.
There can be no doubt in the minds of those who
have seen her portrait, of her strength of charac-
ter, and she will in all probability act her part
with grace and genuine attractiveness, doing
the honors of the Presidential Mansion as well at
least as any of her predecessors. It is "devoutly
to be hoped" that her life there with that of her
distinguished husband may be as happy as in their
own quiet home, and that the womanly sentiment
so strong in her home life, may not be without
its correspondingly beneficial effects upon the
affairs of the nation.


[Column 1]﻿

UTAH'S ADMISSION.

	Synopsis of the report by the Committee on
Territories, in relation to Utah being admitted
as a State into the Union.
	"It commences by setting forth the doctrine
that when Congress organizes a Territory and
provides a territorial government for the peo-
ple therein, it is with the implication that they
shall have a State Government, and it is
with this promise held out to them that
they occupy and develop the public domain,
and their right to a State government, cannot be
denied, when the proper conditions are fulfilled,
without bad faith on the part of Congress, unless
there are circumstances that relieve Congress
from a duty that would otherwise be imperative.
	"The conditions in Utah are then set forth and
the statements made by the gentlemen who ap-
peared before the committee in behalf of Utah's
admission are virtually adopted by the committee
as incontrovertible facts. The area, population,
products, manufactures, mining interests, schools,
churches, moral status of the people, finance of
the Territory, etc., are given with details and
statistics that are of great value in a public docu-
ment of this character, with the deduction that
the conditions exist which entitle Utah to admis-
sion as a State, and that it is of national import-
ance that Utah should have a State government."
	Then follows the objections whieh are, First,

[Column 2]

"The existence of polygamy," Second, "The
power and teachings of the "Mormon" Church
on that subject." Discussing these and sum-
ming the matter up it resolves itself in this form,
"whether a Territory will be excluded from the
Union for opinions entertained by a majority of
the people;" and also "the question whether
polygamy is by the Mormon Church made manda-
tory or permissive." The statements on both
sides are fairly presented in brief, and it is made
clear that the Utah Legislature never established
polygamy, and that the large majority of the people
have never practiced it."
	"The committee leave the dispute to the con-
sideration of the House, with the plain reference
that on a simple question of belief, Congress will
not attempt to decide, and that the members of a
society or sect ought to know better than their
opponents what their true belief is on any article
of their creed, also that this cannot well be made
a basis of legislation. That Congress would
hardly undertake to legislate in regard to a belief
that was avowed; certainly would not venture so
far as to act against or because of a belief that is
disputed."
	The provisions of the new Constitution for
Utah on this question are thus considered, and also
"the powers of Congress after admission." After
this and much more, than we have space to use at
the present, the document concludes with the
following:
	"Notwithstanding, and in view of the fact that
the present Congress is soon to expire and pro-
bably without opportunity on the part of the
House to consider this subject, your committee
deem it just to all parties concerned to present to
the House the condition of Utah as to population,
resources, development, schools, etc., and the
extent to which polygamy exists as above set
forth, together with the respective contentions as
to the doctrines of the 'Mormon' Church, and the
good faith of the 'Mormon' element in respect of
the offer to make polygamy a crime by a constitu-
tional provision, not repealable except with the
consent of Congress.
	"The indications are certainly very strong that
in the distant future, polygamy, in fact, will have
ceased to exist, and when that time arrives, if not
sooner admitted, the question will have to be met,
whether Congress will exclude Utah as a State
because a majority of the people are members of
the 'Mormon' Church.
	"Having thus presented the situation as dis-
closed at the hearing, the bill is reported back;
with the recommendation that it be placed on the
calendar for consideration and action thereon by
the House."
	From the report of this committee one would
naturally be led to the conclusion that Utah would
be admitted into the Union of States in the near
future. Great credit is due to the committee from
Utah who have labored so energetically to present
the claims of the Territory to the President and
to the Congress of the United States, and to the
Honorable Delegate whose views and opinions on
this subject have been so ably set forth.
	The people should not slacken their efforts
because the situation of affairs seems more propi-
tious, but still persist in the endeavor to obtain that
to which Utah is justly entitled. Perhaps after a
long series of importunities it may be, like the
story of the woman in Scripture, importuning the
unjust judge, who granted her prayer at last
because he was wearied by her persistency.


A VALUABLE BOOK.

	"The Life of Joseph Smith the Prophet," by
George Q. Cannon, is one of the books that
should be in the home of every Latter-day Saint.
Those who were acquainted with Joseph Smith
cannot fail but be impressed with a feeling of ad-
miration for the writer, who has more than forty


[Column 1]

years after his death, the power to call forth so
life like a pen picture of the prophet and his
work, performed many times under the most
difficult and embarrassing circumstances, and
very often of such a nature as would have wholly
discouraged one not under the direct inspiration
of the Almighty. To those who never had the
pleasure of a personal acquaintance with this re-
markably great man, it will be something of a
surprise, as well as a study, to read of his wonder-
ful endowments of character and the loftiness of
purpose, that carried him triumphantly through
such trying ordeals, requiring as it were, super-
human courage and wisdom. Who is there that
has embraced the Gospel revealed in this dispen-
sation, who is not deeply interested in knowing of
the personal and home life of the man chosen
and appointed to bring forth and establish the
Latter-day work?
	This the Author has given in a purity of style
and simplicity of language that cannot fail to be
appreciated by all lovers of good books. A
touching story eloquently told, yet with the con-
sciousness of truth apparent in every paragraph.
	The name of Joseph Smith is so dear to this
people, that, plain as it may seem to be to others,
it stands out as a headlight on the pages of
Church history, and whenever it is uttered it is
always in a voice that bespeaks reverence and
love. The writer well remembers the sweetness
of a voice now long hushed and silent, of one
intimately associated with Joseph Smith in his
life time, and with what a peculiar softness in her
mellifluous tones she always alluded to Presi-
dent Smith as "Joseph the Prophet," and so in-
deed he was, spiritual and prophetic in his nature
yet with those tender loving and emotional
characteristics that some men term womanly.
His love for his mother was mingled with a sub-
lime reverence that made it almost heavenly, and
his passionate love for children was one of the
positive proofs of his divine mission.
	Bro. Cannon has not failed in his delineation
of the life and works of this great prophet, seer
and revelator; and he deserves full credit for his
work as a biographer, but he himself, will no
doubt, acknowledge the grandeur of his theme as
an inspiration to this valuable historical produc-
tion. It is to the youth of Zion that this bi-
ography should appeal with a marvelous force,
inspiring them to take hold of the work com-
menced by the prophet of the last days and
assist in carrying it forward to its final completion
or the signal triumph of truth over error.
	The description the writer gives of the scenes
in Carthage jail are strikingly vivid; and pathetic
in the extreme. And when one remembers the
circumstances attending this period in Nauvoo,
the agony of the Saints when their leaders were
incarcerated in prison, and the horrors of the
day, when the direful tidings were brought home
and spread like wild-fire from house to house, all
the tragedy is renewed in the mind, and only sobs
and a torrent of tears can give relief to the emo-
tions, so susceptible in the hearts of the Latter-
day Saints who were the living witnesses to many
of the startling facts therein set forth. Those
were indeed days of darkness and severe trial.
How the people mourned for Joseph and Hyrum
so cruelly slain, can scarcely be realized by the
present generation. Their experience is altogether
a different one, and they know little of the sorrows
and drivings, the mobbings, or the privations
of the earlier Pilgrim Saints. But sufficient unto
the day is the evil thereof, and the present is
quite another phase of the history of this people.
Yet it is best that the rising generation should
know the difficulties that were encountered by
Joseph and his associates in laying the founda-
tion upon which they are expected to build.
	The book is handsomely bound, the paper is of
a very fine quality, leaves gilt-edged, and the
cover gilt lettered; type clear and large, and the

[Column 2]

outside appearance of the book altogother suitable
to adorn any drawing room table; it contains over
five hundred pages, divided into sixty-six chapters,
besides, the Preface—notes and appendix. The
table of contents is arranged in such a way that
it is easy to find quickly any particular item
wanted, and the author must necessarily feel a
good degree of satisfaction in his literary work.
It will recommend itself when examined and needs
no encomium of praise, beyond such notice as one
must give when perusing its pages carefully. The
price of the book is not high, and in all probability
the first edition will soon be disposed of. Tourists
who express so much curiosity concerning the
rise and progress of the Church would do well to
pnrchase this book, which will furnish them much
important data in regard to a movement which has
created such a furore in the world, and enlighten
their minds on subjects of which many of them
seem to be totally and woefully ignorant. It is a
book that will live in history and surpasses any
work of its kind in the richness, variety and origi-
ality of the subjects treated upon. The life of
the Prophet was crowded with startling episodes
marvelous events and tragic vicissitudes fol-
lowing each other in such rapid succession, that,
in reviewing it one can scarcely take in the whole
situation without re-reading and pondering it in
his mind over and over so much stranger it is than
fiction.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	TO-DAY the Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake are
holding their conference in the Salt Lake Assem-
bly Hall. The Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Stake
are holding conference in the Tabernacle in
Ogden City to-day.
	AT the Relief Society conference held in this
City yesterday, the house was filled to overflowing.
Interesting speeches were made by Prest. M.
Isabella Horne, Prest. Zina D. H. Young, Sisters
B. W. Smith, Susan S. Young, Prest, Mary A.
Freeze; and Sister Mary A. Clark of Farmington,
and other ladies. The subjects treated upon
were home manufacture, seri culture, the storing
of wheat, memberships for the Deseret Hospital,
and other matters of importance to the Society.
Prest. Horne read a letter from a missionary now
in England, asking her to use her influence to-
wards raising means to help a family of the
Latter-day Saints there,who are in very distressed
circumstances. The ladies generously contri-
buted the sum of fifty dollars at the afternoon
meeting of the same day.
	THE conference of the Relief Society held in
Ogden yesterday was well attended notwithstand-
ing the rain storm. On the platform were seated
a number of prominent ladies of the Junction
City, as also several Bishops. Prest. Jane S.
Richards presided with her usual quiet dignity:
the principal subjects treated upon were charity,
the importance of woman's position in the home
and in society, her influence for good and her just
rights as a citizen in reference to laws and gov-
ernment. Bishop Wallace of North Ogden made
an elegant and earnest appeal in behalf of woman's
privileges, and the audience listened with rapt
attention. Mrs Richards made some timely re-
marks at the close of the meeting; her words
were well chosen, and her voice and manner
calculated to make a deep and lasting impression.
Mrs. Richards has been for many years now, en-
gaged in benevolent work among the sisters in
Weber Stake and her labors have resulted bene-
fiically for all the Associations in that locality.
	On Saturday, afternoon, March 9th, the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association held a meeting in
the Social Hall in this City commencing at 2 p.m.
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, first vice-President presided.
Prayer was offered by the Hon. H. J. Grant,
then followed the reading of the minutes, and a

[Column 2]

short but comprehensive speech by Mr. Grant,
on the subject of Woman Suffrage, rights, etc.
Mrs Emily S. Richards, the Utah delegate to the
Annual Convention of the N. W. S. A. at Wash-
ington, gave a synopsis of her work in the in-
terest of the women of Utah. Mrs. Richards
spoke in a clear and forcible manner, plainly
indicating that her heart was in her subject.
Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Dr. Romania B. Pratt
were the other speakers; and both gave evidence
of their ability to present the subject of Suffrage
for Women in a very able and impressive style.
The women of Utah are perfectly capable of
managing political associations, and it is earnestly
hoped that the efforts being made will result in
good and hasten the day, when the rights so un-
justly wrested from them may be restored. It is
expected a sort of convention will be held in
April, at which delegates from other parts of the
Territory will be in attendance.
	Miss Mary L. Booth editor of Harper's Bazar
who died March 5th, in New York City, was a
most remarkable woman, and filled a very impor-
tant position as editor of one of the most popular
journals of the day. Miss Booth has been a
translater of many valuable books from the French
and German. One of them has been highly
complimented  by some of the greatest writers of
our time. "Uprising of a Great People" trans-
lated during the civil war from Count de Gasparin's
was said by Charles Sumner to be worth a whole
phalanx in the cause of human freedom. "The
History of New York," written by Miss Booth,
has had a very large sale. Several copies of it
have been illustrated and one given her by an
eminent bibliopolist containing 2000 pictures, and
another in Chicago, having been enlarged to
twenty-two volumes. She was also, notwith.
standing her acknowledged literary merit and
proclivities, a charming woman, in her own home
in New York City, of which it has been said "it
is one of the most delightful places in the world."
this is a tribute every woman would be proud to
have bestowed upon her. Such women are
missed when they take their departure hence;
but fortunately for the age in which we are living
there are many women prepared to take up the
work where others leave off, and they will be the
better for such examples as those of Miss
Booth both in her public duties and her home life.


ANOTHER W. S. A.

	THE following notice appears in the Richfield
Advocate of March 6th; this indicates the energy
and progressive spirit of the ladies in that locality.
ED.
	A meeting will be held, at Relief Society Hall,
March, 14th, at 2 p.m., for the purpose of organiz-
ing a Woman Suffrage Association in Sevier Co.
All ladies are requested to attend, irrespective of
church or creed.
		ELIZABETH BEAN,
		JANE SPENCER,
		THURZY M. THURBER.


AN ADDITION TO REPORT.

	In the report of the Union proceedings o the
Executive Session of January 24th, the statement
concerning the chronology of the proposed Na-
tional American Society ought, in order to give
the understanding of the committee on the Union,
to read—As the two Societies were organized the
same year, and as the difference of chronology
results from a slight difference in the way of
naming the first annual meeting, it has been de-
cided that it will be true to the spirit of the
chronology of both Associations, to call the next
year's Convention the 22nd.
	Also, Miss Shaw and Miss Stone Blackwell
were present, not as technically representing the


American Committee on Union, except in the 
sense that they could have a fair idea what their 
Committee would be apt to accede to.—Rachel
Foster Avery, Sec. of N. W. S. A. Committee
on Union.
	Philadelphia, February 19, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

MARICOPA STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of this Stake, was
held in the M. I. Hall, December 20th, 1888.
E. G. MacDonald, presiding.
	After singing, and prayer by Counselor
Sarah E. Russell, the roll was called, and
minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved.
	President MacDonald was pleased with again
having the privilege of meeting with the sisters
of this Stake, in conference. Thought this was
the last time she should have the opportunity
for some time at least. Wished their faith
and prayers, that we might have a joyful time
together, and all be benefitted.
	Reports were then called for from the
different branches, which were responded to
by President M. A. Hakes, of Zenos; Presi-
dent Lizzie MacDonald, Lehi; President Ann
Klimman, Almy; and President Susan Savage,
Papago branch. Their reports showed decided
improvement in the faithfulness of the mem-
bers, which was very gratifying and encourage-
ing to all those who have the welfare of Zion
at heart. The speakers being earnest and
spirited in the testimonies borne.
	President MacDonald was well pleased with
the reports, bore testimony to their truthful-
ness. As she had visited the various branches
since our last conference and found a good
spirit prevailing wherever she went. Spoke of
the important position which teachers held
in the society. They should have the spirit of
prayer in their hearts continually, that they
might know and understand the hearts of
those they visited, that they might be enabled
to impart such instruction as would be need-
ful and beneficial. The president and coun-
selors should meet with them and instruct
them, and encourage them in their duties.
	Sister MacDonald then said she would re-
sign her position as president, as she expected
to leave in a few days and join her husband in
Mexico. Spoke feelingly of the pleasant asso-
ciations she had formed with the sisters of this
Stake, should always remember it with plea-
sure; prayed that the spirit of inspiration
might rest upon all who desired to do right.
	President C. I. Robson, then followed with
a very interesting and instructive discourse,
showing the necessity for these organizations,
and clearly defining the duties of the mem-
bers; spoke concerning the teaching of our
children, said impressions are easily made
upon the minds of the young. We should
teach them to pray, prayer is the safeguard
against evil thoughts and desires; the officers
were set as watchmen upon the towers of Zion.
We should do away with hard feelings to-
wards each other, and learn to forgive, as we
would be forgiven. Expressed regret at
President MacDonald having to leave us, and 
appreciatively of her labors among us here,
and the difficulty of selecting a suitable per-
son to fill her place, and the wisdom needed to
direct and lead for the best good of all; and
mentioned that a vote of thanks be extended
to Sister MacDonald for the faithful discharge
of her duties and labors in our midst, the
motion was seconded, and carried unanimously.
	Counselors Russell and Morris each made
appropriate remarks.
	Counselors Henry Rogers, Charles Allen,
A. I. Stewart, made encouraging remarks,
which were listened to with great interest
	Sisters Everett, Allen and Biggs, also bore

[Column 2]

tesimony to the truth of this latter day work,
and expressed their desire to live up to their
privileges.
	Sister MacDonald made a few closing re-
marks, exhorting the sisters to faithfulness in
all their duties.
	Closed by singing, "The Spirit of God, like
fire is burning." Dismissed by Chas. I. Robson.
		SARAH M. POMEROY, Sec.

	At the Stake conference, 23d and 24th, which
was held at Mesa, Sarah M. Pomeroy was ap-
pointed to fill the place of Sister-E. G. Mac-
Donald, as Stake President, with Sarah E.
Russell and S. A. Robson, as counselors.
	We had a very pleasant reunion of the
Relief Society of Mesa, on the 27th at the
Society Hall, as a farewell party to our be-
loved president,  and a very sociable and
agreeable time was enjoyed by all who parti-
cipated. Dancing was indulged in by those
who desired, both old and young taking part.
In the course of the evening, our president was
presented with a beautiful maroon plush covered
toilet case, for a lady. It was presented by Sister
Sarah E. Russell, as a token of love and
respect, from the Relief Society of Mesa, in
a few choice words suited to the occasion, she
briefly reviewed her labors of love amongst us.
Sister MacDonald was deeply affected at this
fresh proof of the love and respect in which
she was held. She responded in a feeling
manner, said she should never forget the many
happy hours spent in the society of her sisters,
and wherever her lot might be cast, should
remember them with grateful affection.
	On the evening of the 28th, which was the
evening before her departure, a few of her
friends planned to surprise her with a visit,
and with pic-nic and social conversation, the
evening passed pleasantly away.	S. M. P.

RIGBY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A., of
Rigby, held their annual meeting on February
25th, 1889, Sister Annie Robbins, presiding,
singing by the P. A., "'Tis Meeting Day,"
prayer by Bishop Cardon, singing, "In Our
Lovely Deseret." Minutes of the different
associations were then read and approved, and
the annual reports of each association were
read, and officers sustained. A vacancy of the
second counselor having occurred in the Prim-
ary Association; Sister Ellenor Homer, was
elected and set apart to fill that position, the
 Primary Association then proceeded with
their exercises as follows. Opening address
Miss Edith Saxton; answers on the first prin-
ciples of the Gospel a class of the larger
children; song by Sarah E. and Laura P.
Call, "Put my little shoe away;" recitation by
Russell K. Homer; dialogue between Olive
Robbins and Edith Saxton, on housekeeping;
recitation by John Saxton, "Give the little
boys a chance;" duet by Thomas E. and Chas.
Doman, "Two little birds are we;" recitation,
Alfred R. Homer, "The first cigar;" the ten
commandments, in verse by the smaller chil-
dren; recitation by Betsy Saxton, "The swal-
lows and I;" song by Lillie May Saxton, "I'm
going to write to papa;" recitation by Omer
Cardon; recitation by Laura P. Call, "little
Miss Tidy;" recitation by Maria Call, "I've
got three kisses so sweet to give;" recitation by
Ellenor Basset, "Nobody knows but mother;"
recitation by Maggie Saxton, "Busy little
fingers;" singing by the Primary Association,
"Nice young Mormons;" benediction by Bro.
D. S. Robbins.
		MARY E. CALL, President.
		ANNIE DOMAN, Secretary.


Abuse may not be criticism, but sometimes
the latter sounds much like the former.


TESTIMONY OF A SISTER.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I feel it my duty to write a few lines for our
valuable little paper.  Our position at the
present time, I fear, is not appreciated as it
should be; I never saw the time in my life that
I felt so thankful as I do at the present; I feel
to thank my Heavenly Father every day of my
life, for I know he has healed me through the
administrations of his Elders.
	About a year ago I had an ovarian tumor
start in my right side, and I began to bloat up
and feel miserable; at first I did not know
what was the matter with me, but as the
tumor grew I could feel it throb and beat, and
then I knew by what I had read that it was a
tumor. I kept getting larger all the time un-
til I could scarcely get around, and sometimes
I would be in such dreadful pain, that I could
scarcely endure it; I would send for the Elders
continually, but still I grew worse. I did not
know what to do; I had so many times in my
life been healed by the Elders, I began to feel
nearly discouraged. I well remember one day
about the middle of last August, I was suffering
terribly; I could not get in any position to get
one bit of ease, and it seemed as though I
could not live the pain was so great; my hus-
band was in the field cutting lucern at the
time. I sent one of the children after him and
one after the elders; they administered to me;
the moment they took their hands off my head
the tumor burst and the water ran freely; the
pain gradually went away, but I could not lie
down; the moment I attempted it the water
would rush to my heart and nearly smother
me. This was on Thursday, and the next
Sunday night I was so bad that I sat in the
rocking chair all night except what time I was
walking the floor. That night I told my hus-
band we would have to put a little more work
with our faith or I could not live; the next
day he went to Ogden and brought Dr. Allen.
When the doctor looked at me he said he
would tap me if I was not so weak; I told him
if he could relieve me to do so, and I would
run the risk of standing it. He put a band
around me and I went through the operation.
I sat in a chair, held a cup in one hand the
tube in the other, until three gallons of liquid
were taken from the tumor, and that night I
had a good rest; the doctor advised me to go
to Salt Lake City and get Dr. Richards to take
the tumor from me and the next Wednesday
morning my husband and I went. We went
to the Deseret Hospital and sent for Dr.
Richards; he came and talked very kind and
encouraging to me. He said he could not take
the tumor juat then, the weather was too warm;
he told me to go back home and wait until the
weather was cooler and then he would do all he
could for me. I came back home and the
tumor began to fill up again and grew very
fast; I began to wonder if I could never get
well, so I thought I had better prepare for the
worst. So the first thing I began to wish our
children could be sealed to us, for we had five
children before we were sealed at the altar.
We had four children married and three were
living in Snake River Valley. I wrote to
them and told them my condition, and that if
they could possibly come I would like to have
them do so, and they were soon all ready to go
 to the temple; we went, had our work done and
returned home. By this time it was getting
cool weather, and I was getting larger every
day, and I had to sit up and sleep, and some
days I had to be propped up in bed. I knew
there was only one chance for me to live, and I
thought I would take that chance; we got ready
to go to Salt Lake, though I did not know
how I could go; I had been in bed several days,
my husband was wondering how I could stand
the trip the way I was, so the night before we


were to start he said to me "we will have the
Elders come, and have them pray for you,"
so he went and brought three elders and they
administered to, and prayed for me; and they
all promised me I should go, have the tumor
taken, and return home safe again, and I be-
lieved every word they promised me. I had a
good rest that night, and got up next morning
and I felt as if I was healed; we went to Salt
Lake, went back to the Hospital, and found
Dr. Richards just as good as his word. He
had the best room in the Hospital all cleaned
and prepared for the operation. On the morn-
ing of October the 14th, the good and wise
doctor had everything arranged in the best of
order for the operation  I got up that morn-
ing and felt thankful that the day had come
that I would get rid of the worst trouble I had
ever had about me. At half-past twelve I
mounted the operation table without a doubt in
my mind, took the ether, and did not know any
more until four o'clock; then I woke np and
found myself in a nice warm bed. I got along
splendid; I never felt so thankful in all my
life. The tumor and all the water were fifty
pounds; only think of carrying fifty pounds;
the tumor when empty was twelve pounds; I
was in bed twenty days, and then I was up
five days before I came home. I had the best
of care, my husband sat right by my bed, and
I had a good kind nurse, and my doctor never
neglected me not in the least.
	If any of my sisters ever get in the same
condition that I have been in. I hope they will
take my advice and go to Dr. Richards, for
we have proved him and Dr. Allen to be
gentlemen in every respect. I never can forget
their kindness towards me, and every one in the
Hospital was very kind to me; and the good
Elder that never forgot me, he came and I
was healed. If I had not been under the care
of the doctor I would have got up, for I was 
healed, there is no mistake about it. The
same day Sister Zina Young came to see me,
she told me I would get well and return home
all right. God bless all my good sisters, I re-
main as ever,
	Your sister in the Gospel of peace.
		M. A. RAWSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	We cannot conquer necessity, but we can
yield to it in such a way as to be greater than
if we could.
	Mrs. Proctor, widow of the great astrono-
mer, will receive an annual pension from the
British government of $500.
	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland has given up
the position she held last year at Mrs. Sylvanus
Reed's school, and returned to her home at
Holland Patent.—Ex.
	The Pennsylvania Senate has passed a bill
authorizing the appointment of women as physi-
cians in insane asylums where women are con-
fined.
	The Idaho Legislature has passed acts to
make women eligible to the office of County
School Superintendents, and to "establish and
protect the rights of married women."
	The Massachusetts Committee on Woman
Suffrage has voted to report, first, a bill giving
women municipal suffrage, and second, a bill
allowing women to vote on the license ques-
tion.
	Mrs. Frank Leslie has sold to W. J. Arkell,
of the Judge, her weekly illustrated papers,
both English and German, for $400,000, the
transfers to be made in May. Mrs. Leslie
will retain and personally direct her other
publications.


[Column 1]

THE NEW CONSTITUTION.

	The following is the Constitution proposed
for the new National-American Woman Suf-
frage Association. This constitution has been
approved by a majority of the committee on
union, appointed by the American W. S. A.,
and is now submitted to a vote of the members
of the Association, the vote to be taken by
mail, in accordance with the resolution passed
at the last annual meeting of the Association,
held at Cincinnati, O.
	HENRY B. BLACKWELL,
		Cor Sec, A. W. S. A. 
	ARTICLE I. The name of this Association
shall be the National-American Woman Suf-
frage Association.
	ARTICLE II. The object of this Associa-
tion shall be to secure protection in their right
to vote to the women citizens of the United
States by appropriate National and State legis-
lation.
	ARTICLE III. Section 1.—All citizens of
the United States subscribing to this Constitu-
tion and paying not less than one dollar
annually into the treasury of the Association,
shall become members thereof and shall be en-
titled to attend all its meetings, to participate
in all discussions that may arise, and to receive
reports and other documents published by it;
but such membership shall not carry with it
the right to vote.
	Section 2.—The payment of fifty dollars
($50) into the treasury of this Association
shall constitute any citizen of the United
States a life member of the Association with
all the privileges belonging to the regular
annual members.
	ARTICLE IV. 	Section 1.—The officers of
this Association shall be a president, a vice-
president at large, a recording secretary, a cor-
responding secretary, a treasurer, a chairman
of the executive committee and two auditors.
The officers named in this section shall be
nominated by an informal ballot at a busi-
ness session of the annual convention of the
Association. The three persons receiving the
highest number of votes for any office, shall
be considered the nominees of the convention
for that office, and the will of the Association
shall be taken for a formal ballot.
	Section 2.—Wherever State and Territorial
associations, auxiliary to the National Ameri-
can Association exist, the presidents of such
associations shall be considered vice-presidents
of the National-American Association, repre-
senting therein their respective States and Ter-
ritories.
	Section 3.—Each State or Territorial auxil-
iary association shall elect from its members-
ship one person to serve on the executive com-
mittee of their National-American Association.
	Section 4.—The president of the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association shall
appoint a vice president to represent on its
executive board, any State or Territory where
no State or Territorial Association exists auxil-
iary to the National-American Association.
	Section 5.—The officers enumerated in the
preceeding sections of this article shall con-
stitute the committee of this Association: of
these officers, fifteen shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
	Section 6.—The executive committee shall
elect annually from the veterans of our cause
ten or more honorary vice presidents.
	ARTICLE V. This Constitution may be
amended by a majority vote at any annual
meeting, notice of the amendment having
been given at any preceeding annual meeting.

BY-LAWS. BY-LAW I. 
	For the accomplishment of the object speci-
fied in Article II of its Constitution, this As-
sociation shall seek to concentrate the efforts
of all the advocates of woman suffrage in the

[Column 2]

United States by the following methods: (1)
It shall hold annually in Washington, one
meeting of delegates (according to the basis of
representation stated in By-Law II) for the
transaction of business, the election of officers
and the advocacy of its principles; and it may
hold one or more other conventions annually
for the advocacy of its principles. (2) It
shall form State and Territorial associations
auxiliary to itself in every State and Territory
where none such exists, and, recognizing the
authority of its auxiliaries in their respective
States and Territories, it shall promote their
local work by every means in its power. (3)
It shall publish tracts, speeches and other
documents and shall furnish the same to State
and local suffrage associations and to individ-
uals at actual cost. (4) It shall prepare and
circulate petitions to Congress and to State
and Territorial legislatures on behalf of the
political and civil equality of women. (5)
It may employ one or more organizers and
lecturers, and take such other measures for the
promotion of woman suffrage as the executive
committee shall determine upon, subject always
to the will of the Association.

By-Law II. BASIS OF REPRESENTATION.
	Section 1.—Any State or Territorial woman
suffrage association, and (in a State or Terri-
tory where there is no State or Territorial
suffrage organization auxiliary to the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association) any
local woman suffrage association may become
auxiliary to the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association by paying into the trea-
sury of the National-American Association
annually twenty-five cents (25) per member of
its entire membership.
	Section 2.—It shall be the duty of the
treasurer of each auxiliary association to send
to the treasurer of the National-American
Woman Suffrage Association, before January
1st in each year, a list, certified to by its presi-
dent or recording secretary, of the members of
said organization for the current year.
	Section 3.—Every such auxiliary association
shall be entitled to send three delegates to the
annual convention of the National-American
Woman Suffrage Association, and one dele-
gate in addition for every twenty-five members
above a membership of fifty. The delegates
actually present may cast the whole number
of votes to which the auxiliary association is
entitled.
	Section 4.—Any State or Territorial woman
suffrage association which is not auxiliary to the
National-American Association may send one
delegate to the annual meeting of the National-
American Association.
	Section 5.—All officers of the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association shall
be ex-officio delegates at large, and every such
officer shall be entitled to one vote in all the
the business-meetings of the Association.
	Section 6.—Where there are two State socie-
ties in one State, both of them auxiliary to
the National-American, the president of each
shall be a vice-president of the National-Ameri-
can; and each shall elect its own representative
on the National-American executive board,
and be entitled to one delegate for each twenty-
five members.

BY-LAW III. CREDENTIALS.
	All delegates (expect the delegates at large
specified in Section V of By-Law II) must
present credentials properly signed by the presi-
dent and the recording secretary of the organi-
zation represented. Membership cards, pro-
perly signed by the treasurer of the National-
American Suffrage Association shall serve as
credentials for the members of that body who
are not delegates from other bodies.

BY-LAW IV.
	The executive committee of the National-


[Column 1]

American Woman Suffrage Association shall
hold one session preceding the opening of each
annual convention in Washington and another
session after the conclusion of such convention;
and the committee having in charge the arrange-
ments for the annual convention shall always
take cognizance of such meetings of the exe-
cutive committee and make provision for them.
BY-LAW V.
	The decisions reached by the executive com-
mittee shall be presented in the form of recom-
mendations at the business sessions of the con-
vention.
BY-LAW VI.
	Every delegate shall be entitled to one vote
on all questions, but only on the election of
officers shall the delegates be entitled to cast
the full vote to which the organizations repre-
sented by them are entitled.
BY-LAW VII.
	The committee on resolutions shall consist
of one person from each State and Territory,
elected by the delegation from the organization
represented.
BY-LAW VIII.
	At the concluding business session of each
annual convention, the president of this Asso-
ciation shall appoint the following committees,
each committee to consist of three persons,viz.:
a committee on credentials, to have in charge
the credentials of delegates to the next annual
convention; a committee on programme, to
arrange the programme for the next annual
meeting; and a congressional committee, to
have in charge the direct congressional work
during the year which shall intervene between
the time of its appointment and the next
annual convention in Washington.
BY-LAW IX.
	The report of the treasurer up to the first of
January preceding the annual Washington
convention shall be read at the first business
session of that body.

	As some persons do not fully understand
about the "chronology" agreed upon for the
National-American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion, a breif explanation may be desirable.
	At the conference in Washington between
the National committee on union and Miss
Shaw and Miss Blackwell from the American
committee on union, the question came up as
to how the meetings of the united society
should be dated. Each association had a long
record of work behind it. Many members of
both thought that it would be a pity, after
their annual meetings had got up into the
twenties, to sacrifice the prestige of a long
series of meetings behind them, and to call the
next convention the first of a new series. On
the other hand, neither association was quite
willing to date the meetings of the united
society from the birthday of the other associa-
tion. The present writer had thought that a way
out of the difficulty might be found by dating
them from the birthday of the old American
Equal Rights Society, in which the most active
of the suffragists on both sides had worked
together for several years before the split took
place and the National and American W. S.
A.'s were formed. She thought that this
would be true in the spirit if not in the letter,
A majority of the National committee, how-
ever, were not satisfied with this plan. Miss
Anthony then stated that the two associations
had been formed in the same year and had
held the same number of conventions; the
only difference was in their method of count-
ing, the National having called its second con-
vention its second annual meeting, while the
Americans called its second convention its
first annual meeting, i. e., its first anniversary.
As both associations had been formed in the

[Column 2]

same year, she thought it would not be an in-
justice to either to reckon the date of the
united society from that year, and to call the
next meeting the twenty-second. The present
writer had been under the impression that the
American was one convention behind the
National. She said that if the number of
meetings held had been the same, and the only
difference was in the way of counting them,
she thought it would do to call the next con-
vention the twenty-second, provided it were
clearly understood that was not done merely
because the National was twenty-two years old,
but because they both were. It was readily
agreed that this should be distinctly under-
stood; and on this basis the matter rested.
	Some members of each association object to
calling the next convention anything but the first,
on the ground that it is not true. Of course, in
strict technical accuracy, the meeting to be held
in Washington next January will be neither
the twenty second convention of the National,
nor the twenty-first anniversary of the Ameri-
can, but the first meeting of a new society
composed of the two. But, in the present
writer’s opinion, to call it the twenty-second is
sufficiently true in the spirit, if not in the
letter; and the point in any case is one of
minor importance.
	ALICE STONE BLACKWELL,
		Sec'y Am. Committee on Union.
The Woman's Journal, Boston, March 2, 1889.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A NEW USE FOR LEMONS.

	"If you ever use lemons," remarked one
housewife to a lady friend, "and have a por-
tion of one left over, be sure you do not throw
it away." "I am never without them in the
house, as I always use them for flavoring; but
of what use are the pieces?"
	"Just this.  The next time you think you
have done with a lemon just dip it in salt and
rub your copper kettle or stewpan with it.
You will be surprised to find what a brilliant
surface you will obtain if you rub the article
instantly with a dry, soft cloth. You can pol-
ish all brass work by the same means, every
stain disappearing as if by magic. A moldy
lemon put into a dirty saucepan half full of
water and boiled for half an hour cleanses the
utensil amazingly and removes any odor, such
as fish or onions. Try it, and see if I am not
right."—Ex.


SKETCH OF MARY G. CROOK.

	Mary Giles Crook, was born April 13th, 1833, in Calver-
ton, Nottinghamshire, England; the sixth child of Wm.
and Sarah Huskinson Giles. Baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, A. D. 1850; emigrated
to the United States, 1854, arrived in Burlington, State of
Iowa the same year; stayed there one year. Then came
to Council Bluffs, resided there one year. Crossed the
plains in P. H. Merrill's ox team company, arrived in Salt
Lake City, in said company on the 15th of August, 1856,
settled in Provo City; married to John Crook, September 6,
1856, in said city by Bishop Jonathan O. Duke. Moved
to Provo valley in 1859; received her endowments in Salt
Lake City, July 27, 1861; was set apart as first counselor to
Sister Katie Foreman, President of Relief Society, West
Ward, Heber; also set apart as first counselor to Sister Sarah
Cummings, President of Y. L. M. I. A. of said ward.
	She was the mother of nine children, six sons and three
daughters. Age at death, 55 years and five months exact;
was five months to a day paralyzed. She died faithful to
the Gospel. A dutiful mother and faithful wife; always on
hand in case of sickness or death. When the dreadful
scourge diphtheria visited Heber City some years ago, she
was as a ministering angel with her companion Maggie
Hicken among the afflicted both night and day. The
Lord blessed her in her comforting rounds with health and
strength, with only one exception, having a slight touch of
the scourge for about twenty-four hours. She was a woman
of great endurance, never having had much sickness until


the last five months of her life. Peace to her memory; she
has gone to receive her reward with the just and faithful.
	Yours respectfully,
		JOHN CROOK.
Heber City, October 28, 1888.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Died in West Weber, of dropsy, the beloved wife of
John Douglas. Deceased was the daughter of George
Dyson and Jane Burdett, born at Shearsby, Leceistershire,
England, November 29th, 1819. She was baptized into
the Church in July, 1849; sailed from Liverpool, May 21,
1856; crossed the plains in a hand cart company, and
endured many trials on the journey, one that was very
severe; she had to part with her daughter, at the age of
eighteen, and then a son on the snowy plains, which caused
their parents much grief, for it left them no children, but
the Lord gave them strength to reach the end of their
journey, at the late season of the year, they reached Salt Lake
City, November 30, 1856. Shortly afterwards she came
with her husband to Weber County, and settled in West
Weber, where she has resided until her death.
	She was President of the Relief Society of West Weber
over eighteen years, and was beloved by all her associates,
was kind and considerate to all, and always on hand to do
good; and was one that would not tolerate evil-speaking;
and died in full hope of a glorious resurrection.
		P. S. HART, Secretary.


WANTED.
	Gentlemen and Ladies of good address and
education to enter a commercial business,
where promotion and salary at three dollars
per day is guaranteed, small security required
“or bonds.” Address for further particulars,
		M. Glassford,
			354 E. Brigham Street,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
12, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1889.		NO. 21.


THE POET OF GOOD DEEDS.

If you would make life's journey safe and sure,
	Be patient to endure;
	Let all your thoughts be pure.
Your aspirations high, each purpose strong,
To strive and win the victory over wrong.

Let every ill be borne with patience trust,
	And learn from day to day,
	To bear your cross along an even way;
'Twill win for you the star crown of the just,
And leave upon your robes no soil of dust,
Upon your souls no stains of cankering rust.

Leave scorning to the proud, and pride to those
Who dwell in clay-built huts,
Down in the marl-pits and the moral ruts,
	Wherein men fall whose souls
The greed of gain o'ermasters and controls.

Go, cheer the sorrowing; feed earth's hungry souls,
	Starving for bread of life,
Weary and worn with watching and with strife.
	They need our heart's best prayer,
	The gentle, tender care
That soothes with pleasant words and acts of love,
The bruised hearts that seldom look above
Their idols made of clay,
	That fade so soon away.
And leave them mourning like a wounded dove
Whose mate is dead; or, faithless, learned to rove
To other bowers within a neighboring grove.

Cheer on the young, whose race is just begun;
	Sustain the aged forms
	Bowed low beneath life's storms;
Bless those who rise; encourage those who fall!
They are our brothers still! oh, bless them all.
Thus will ye sow on earth the blessed seeds
That, springing up and whitening in the field,
	A hundred fold shall yield
Of fruits for human needs,
And men will bless you for those golden seeds,
And angels call you "Poet of good Deeds.

		BELLE BUSH.
Belvidere Seminary, New Jersey.
The Phrenological Journal.


IN MEMORIAM.

OF REBECCA JONES TO S. M. KIMBALL.

I have the view you sent me of the dear familiar place,
And memories come o'er me, which time cannot efface;
I see the loving tokens for the dear departed one,
Whose earthly love and anxious care for others weal is
	done.
I met her last and parted far, far away from home,
We little thought 'twould be the last while here on earth we
	roam;
And Clara too was with her, peace, peace to both I pray,
God grant they both have entered in, unto a brighter day.
I have sent her letters sent me, from California's shore,
I prized them very highly then, I'll prize them now the
	more,
As links of love that bind me unto a loving past,
Kind words of sympathy and hope, whose memory will
	last
I've been thinking of the many homes made brighter when
	she came,
Whose hours of glad reunion can never be the same.
Where there will be a vacant chair, 'till time shall be no
	more, 
And mother, sister, friend we meet upon the Golden Shore.

I've stood beside her in the dance, and by the bed of pain,
Her hands seemed never tired, neither the heart or brain;
But ever, ever striving, to comfort, cheer and bless,
A rock of strength and shelter in this world of sore dis-
	tress.


You say that you are lonely since she hath passed away—
How many, many loving hearts would fain have had her
	stay;
But He who knoweth best, hath said enough, she may
	have rest,
My Crown, her Cross, shall now replace in the Mansions
	of the blest.

I see upon the Picture of our dear old Hall, the Place
Where we looked for her in meeting, then the Tokens sad
	I trace;
That says her place is vacant, she has gone to meet her
	God,
Whose path through life in meekness, she hath humbly
	firmly trod.

Here too, I see a picture, made by a warm, true heart,
Now resting from his labors, Our Willie's work of Art,
He has left a living monument in cottage and in hall,
And will be missed by many, for he was loved by all.

Now I would send a flower from my home 'neath sunny
	sky.
In token of a friendship, that can never, never die;
A wreath twined all of Myrtle, place them upon each
	grave,
And may peace and love be with you, in His name who
	died to save.	HOPE.


THE GIRLS. 

	I often wonder if "the girls of our set" in
the years of the good old time" ever look back
and enjoy themselves as I do. There were
only a few of us, and not rich in this world's
goods, but oh, so rich in happiness. Our meet-
ing house, our school house and dancing hall
which was built of logs, with a huge fire-place
opposite the one door has witnessed more real
enjoyment than its commedious successor.
	Then, we were very proud of a new linsey
dress, and dressed what to-day would appear
as very plain, we used to dance as much, or
more than the well dressed belles of to day.
How we used to make our wheels hum, and
then when we met, boast of the number of
skeins we had spun. Then our evening gather-
ings, how sweet the potatoes were baked in the
coals, how often we were comforted when the
"corn in the hand" was as we guessed it when
"supposing he loves you," was the question.
	And the rides, and sometimes we girls would
really tee-ter. No doubt we were Tom boys,
but I thank God that our hoydenism did not
lead to sin. Now we "girls" are mature
women, to whom many things of the past
would appear as trifles light as the air, were it
not for the sun shine of those days that so far
have cast a radiance over our lives.
	We are all mothers of large families, except
one, who with her first born lies where our
restless feet often led us, and where most of us
have since lain one or more of our darlings.
	We are scattered afar now; but few remain
at the "home of our childhood." Some were
driven by adverse circumstances and some by
cruel laws; and all are struggling amidst the
care and responsibilities that rest upon all true
women that try to make the world better.
Though we have a glorious hope for the future,
the present some times tries the souls, and the
heart often throbs with pain at the thought of
home and the many friends there. To-night,
as my heart is warmed and gladdened by
sweet memories, I feel to ask God's choicest
blessings for "the girls."		E. T.


Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer is elected president
of Sorosis.


U. W. S. A. 

	The regular monthly meeting of the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association, convened in
the Social Hall, March 9th, 1889. Vice-Presi-
dent Mrs. L. D. Alder, in the chair. Prayer
by Hon. H. J. Grant. After miscellaneous
business was attended to, by invitation, Hon.
H. J. Grant, made the following speech:
	I have listened with interest and attention
to the minutes that have been read of the last
meeting. I can say that I am interested
myself, in the movement, for which this Asso-
ciation is laboring I believe, and have be-
lieved for many years, that it is the right of
those ladies that bear their proportion of the
burdens of government, to have equal rights
and privileges with the men if they wish to.
	I confess that there are some portions of the
duties, devolving upon those who manage the
public affairs in territories, cities, and the
general government, that I think, instead of
being elevating, would be the reverse to the
ladies. At the same time, the great majority
of the duties devolving on a citizen of the
country, can be equally shared with the ladies,
and to the great benefit of all. I remember in
our legislature, some years ago, there was a
bill introduced giving the ladies a right to
hold office. There was considerable opposition
to it, and some of it very marked. I remem-
ber taking sides then, when but a boy, with
those who favored granting this right; and I
thought those who contended, showed a lack
of liberality in their views, that was not be-
coming; and I have not changed in my opinion,
to the present time. It is generally considered
that a low class of people congregate at the
polling places, but those of us who took the
trouble to notice the conduct of the people at
such places in this city, prior to the time of
the legislature granting the franchise to women,
and the condition after, would see a marked
improvement. Well, the disposition of riotism
disappeared, and order took its place. I be-
lieve if we were to grant the right of voting, 
to the women, that the men that hold office
would be of a higher type than those who
hold office to-day. It is a fact that among
sensible and honorable men, in the various
sections of the country, almost without excep-
tion, I believe that Utah is the exception,
however, politics is considered beneath the
notice of the better class of citizens; and it is
to the office seeker, that to-day governs our
country; and saloon-men, and what is known
as the lower class of the people, not lower as
far as wealth is concerned, but in morals.
New York city, to-day, is overrun with just
such a class of people. In Chicago, they are
standing, upon a volcano almost, because of a
lack of honesty of the men who govern in
that section of the country. Those who elect
officers, the foreign element that has come
there and have sworn allegiance to the govern-
ment, are filled with Nihilistic desires, although
they have sworn allegiance to it. You all
know that if the power still remained in the
Legislature here, to grant the women the
privilege of voting, that this would be granted
unto them. Those of us who are Mormons,
know how energetically our so called friends
fought to try and get the right for the ladies
to vote, thinking that the Mormon trouble
would be solved by this means. The Utah
Legislature took this up and gave the right to


[Column 1]

the ladies, until these same reformers and pro-
fessed friends of Utah, then asked that the vote
be taken away from them. They showed their
love by working for their interest, they turned
round and worked in the opposite direction.
When women shall have the privilege of vot-
ing, they will exercise it more discreetly than
the men; because go where you will, you will
find more courage to stand by what is known
as duty, no matter what may be the consequences,
burning in the hearts of women than you find
in the hearts of men. Men are willing to
sacrifice their friends for personal glory;
their ambition has a price, and when it is
reached they are willing to sell out. This is
to a certain extent true, and if it be true that
they are willing to sell out, and the majority
of women are not, we may expect that a better
class of people will be chosen by their vote;
instead of saloon corporations controling in
great cities like New York, the moral citizens
would desire an honest government, and women
would desire their sons and husbands to hold
office and labor for the good of the people;
but to day when we find that to hold public
office is almost to be slurred at, we find these
same mothers advising their sons to work in
any place rather than hold a public office.
	This ought to be changed, and instead of feel-
ing that it is a disgrace to hold a public office,
these officers would feel it a credit to occupy
such positions. There is no man that holds
an office in our Church, no matter how much
he may be called upon to sacrifice his own
interest, and his own personal welfare, but
thinks more of discharging the duties of his
office, than of his own worldly gains. The
same thing should apply with reference to
public offices. The reason assigned for taking
away the right of the women to vote, was
because they voted as their husbands told
them. There is no man, but may perhaps
make the statement that other men's wives
can be controlled, but he will never say that
his own could, because they will have their
own way; other men's wives can be controlled
but he knows his own wont.
	Now this is a fact, they will vote as they
please, and they are more discriminating, than
men, and have a moral insight into the charac-
ter of men. The Lord seems to have im-
planted in them the power to read and discern
men. This is illustrated by many a man
being taken in by his fellow man; but it is
very seldom the case with woman, when she
arrives at years of understanding, at that age
when she would be entitled to vote; she can
read the character better than man can, and
with knowledge, that seems to be implanted in
her, I maintain that she is a better person to
vote than man himself. I desire earnestly the
success of this meeting, and seeing that I had
the privilege of speaking first, I will say good
day; and take the privilege of reading what
may follow in your meeting. I shall be pleased
to meet with you at any time, and mingle my
voice in encouraging the movement in which
you are engaged. I wish you abundant suc-
cess in this and in every other good labor.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards. Mrs. President, ladies:
When our President said that she expected a
speech from our delegate, she made me tremble;
because I did not think any one expected a
speech from me to-day; I was merely to give a
report. We left here on Sunday evening and
arrived in Washington on Thursday evening,
giving me Friday and Saturday to visit the
ladies there before the convention convened.
	Mrs. Caine was out of the city when I arrived,
so I called upon Miss Anthony, who was very
busy and had left word that she would not be
able to see any one, but she received me very
kindly. She said that Mrs. Wells had written
of our organization, and she was very much
pleased indeed. She sympthizes with us, and
was glad that we had taken this step.

[Column 2]

	I paid our dues, which made us an auxiliary
to the National Woman's Suffrage Association.
Although the programme had been made out,
she said that we should have an opportunity of
being heard. We had ten minutes to speak
in, and I asked for fourteen; it was granted,
that just gave me time to read what I had
prepared. We were received very kinkly.
	Mrs. Caine and I called upon many ladies,
and had pleasant chats with them. They pro-
tested against the suffrage being taken away
from us, and they assured us that we could
reckon upon their vote were there anything to
call them this year. We attended all the
sessions during the week, with the exception
of one. We were very much pleased and in-
terested in the convention.
	When Mr. Grant was speaking to-day, he
spoke with just as much spirit and feeling as
he would at any other meeting. This is an
evidence to me that it is right for us to meet
and claim our rights. This question of union
which perhaps most of you know of, the Ameri-
can Association, headquarters in Boston, was
discussed asking a union with the National
Suffrage Association, it was considered but not
decided upon. We received a letter from the
Chairman of the Executive Committee asking
our opinion as to this union; she is not in favor
of the union herself, I do not know how Mrs.
Stanton feels in regard to it, but the great
majority were for the union. We stated that our
organization was recent, and had not had time to
think and consult about the subject. I under-
stand that we are to have a meeting about con-
ference time, and that would be a good time to
bring that subject up. I remained after the
convention was over, waiting to have company
home. I called on the wives of some of the
Senators and Representatives, and the wives
of the Justices of the Supreme Court. I had
very pleasant chats.
	Mrs. Ingalls, wife of the President of the
Senate, invited us to a reception which she
gave, and we thought it quite an honor. I
don't know but what my ten minutes is up. I
have nothing more to say. I am pleased to
think we are organized, and that as many of
us feel like meeting together.
	And if we don't feel personally that we need
the franchise, that our exercising it will not
help, we know the world is full of suffering
women who have no rights at all, who can
scarcely get a living, and no man would ever
be asked to work for what they do. Poverty
shows us that women too should have their
rights. They carry the greatest burden in
life and ought to have all the privileges that
belong to them. I know I never neglected to
vote while I had the privilege, and I can say
here that my husband never has dictated as to
how I should vote. I have never seen any-
thing that was unbecoming at the polls.
	It may be necessary in some places to restrict
them from coming within fifty feet of the polls,
nothing of this kind has been done here that I
know of. I was glad to return home after the con-
vention was over, and would have come alone,
but my husband was called home as you all
know, and I was glad to have company. I
should not even have stopped to the Inaugural
Ball had I had the opportunity.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor. Mrs. President and friends:
The position which I occupy this afternoon, is
a new and very strange one to me. I therefore
crave your sympathy and your forbearance.
Woman her position, her rights, and her cap-
abilities are waiting to be solved. No one con-
tests the right of woman to be a wife or mother,
or denies that she has not the right to
beautifying her home. Why not grant her
the right to shine in politics and in the nation?
She is a citizen of the commonwealth and is
amenable to its laws. If she commits crime,
she has to answer for that, she must be punished
as her brother man.

[Column 3]

	If she has property, she must pay taxes;
this is taxation without representation, and
was one of the great causes which led to the
Revolutionary war. I have never heard of
women being denied the many rights that are
hers, but she may yet demand other privileges
that she has been denied, and yet she certainly
has the right to vote. The right of franchise
has been given even to the foreigners, those
who come to our shores, often the very scum
and outcasts of society in the countries from
which they come. And even the illiterate and
degraded negro has been given the right of
suffrage. I say shame upon the nation, shame
upon the governors and lawmakers who can
make and enact and carry out such laws, when
they deny the right to the mothers, their pure
and intelligent mothers, wives and daughters.
	I have never heard any one doubt the right
of woman to earn her own livelihood, and to
work—even to drudge for the care of children
and support those whom God has given her to
care for; and yet I have known of her being
deprived of the same compensation as man
where she has performed the service equally
well; she is denied that which she has earned,
years ago, a few noble women organized to assert
merely because she is a woman. Some forty
and work for equal rights, they have done a
noble work, and they are not discouraged
although they have not attained that which they
have set out for, a perfect franchisement.
	Mrs. Dr. Pratt. Mrs. President, Ladies: I
have been very much interested in what I have
heard to-day, especially in the report from our
delegate and her trip east. I have always felt
thoroughly satisfied that all that the world
needed to receive us, and have a great deal of
respect for us, would be to be well abquainted
with us. And as this acquaintance is increas-
ing, visitors are coming continually in our
midst, and we are brought more in contact
with the world, I feel they will get acquainted
with us, and that our friends will far out weigh
all prejudices against us; I am very glad the
time has come when we shall be a part of this
great political move among women.
	Why women are not acknowledged power
of the body politic, I can never understand,
except in this way, that it always has been
man's course to assume unto himself all the
emoluments and privileges and powers. And
they act out in politics as they do in anything
else, that what is his, is his own, and a wife
is part of his property.
	There is no where in this world, say as much
as they can against the Mormons, where women
have as much liberty, and have it as freely
granted as here in Utah. When we thoroughly
understand what is meant by the political
economy, we still more are in wonder why
women are not considered a worthy factor in
carrying out this economy. It means the
safety, peace and preservation of the govern-
ment. Now then, women of course, as far as
safety in concerned, will have more power from
its internal arrangement than she will in pro-
tecting the country from outside invaders. It
is not necessary for woman, to have her full
rights, that she shall be a soldier, that she
shall be on the police force, or that she shall
fill positions that are unwomanly.
	Meeting adjourned for one month.
		CORNELIA H. CLAYTON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


You may depend upon it that he is a good
man whose intimate friends are all good, and
whose enemies are characters decidedly bad.—
Lavater.
	People will, in a great degree and not with-
out reason, form their opinions of you upon
that which they have of your friends; and
there is a Spanish proverb which says justly,
"Tell me with whom you live, and I will tell 
you who you are."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SONGS OF THE HEARTH RUG.

[THE DISGUSTED WIFE TO HER HUSBAND.]

You promised to leave off your smoking
The day I consented to wed;
How little I thought you were joking,
How fondly believed what you said.

But, alas, how completely you sold me,
With blandishments artful and vain;
When you emptied your snuff box and told me,
You never would fill it again.

Those fumes so oppressive, from puffing
Say, what is the solace that flows;
And whence the enjoyment of stuffing
A parcel of dust in your nose.	
By the habits you thus are pursuing,
There can be no pleasure conferred;
How irrational, then, is so doing,
Now is not very absurd.

Cigars cost you ten cents each, nearly
And ten cents an ounce for your snuff,
Consider how much then, you yearly
Must waste in that horrible stuff.

Why the sums in tobacco you spend—love,
The wealth in your snuff box you sink;
Would procure me of dresses no end—love,
And keep me in gloves; only think.

What's worse, for your person I tremble,
'Tis going as fast as it can;
Oh! how should you like to resemble
A smoky and snuffy old man.

Then resign, at the call of affection,
The habits I cannot endure; 
Or you'll spoil both your nose and complexion,
And ruin your teeth, I am sure.

	M. A. YOULTON GREENHALGH.


[column 1]

AWAKENING OF SPRING.

	"When rosy plumelets tuft the larch,
	And rarely pipes the mounted thrush;
	Or underneath the barren bush
	Flits by the sea-blue bird of March."

	The long, long winter is over, or in common
parlance, the first spring mouth is upon us, 
and though now and then the air is cold and
raw, and the light fleecy snow falls occasionally,
beautifying the landscape for a transitory
moment, yet we cannot but see that spring de
facto is about to pay us her annual visit.
Soon we shall have the sprightly, coy, artless
maiden whom we designate Spring, peeping
out from sunny nooks and corners with her
trailing garlands of green, and gladsome shin-
ing face, though now and then bedewed with
jeweled teardrops, yet all the more beautiful,
with the pleasing contrast of sunshine and
shade; and anon, with positive assurance of
her real designs, she will burst forth in fairy-
like beauty to gladden the universe. She is
heralded with the sweetest orchestra, to me, the
most finished music, surpassing the composition
of the finest masters. The trilling and quaver-
ing of the forest birds, never ceases to be won-
derful to the lover of nature. These songs of
the birds, and other evidences of springtime,
convey to us more than the reality—there is
something indefinable when we try to express
it in words, but of which we are quietly con-
scious within—for want of a better term, the
world declares it poetical sentiment, and as
such I accept it; knowing no more than the
rest of mankind how to define it.
	It is an inexpressible charm of sense and
sound, an exhilaration imparted to the soul, by
the sympathy of many unseen forces, and by
the languid softening of the air, lengthening
of the days, and the thousand beautiful things
that make their appearance in such a marvel
ous manner, through an unseen effort of our
mother earth, so joyful when these inanimate

[column 2]

beings spring to life, that the effect of this re-
newal is everywhere apparent, although vary-
ing in its intensity. One in intimate associa-
tion with the woods and fields, finds much
pleasure, poetry if you will, in the first indica-
tions of the bursting of the green leaf on the
bare bough. At this particular season of the
year, the young hemlock is artistically beauti-
ful, "lying almost flat upon the ground," like
a heavy carpet, richer in its designs than the
most elaborate patterns of the skillful manu-
facturer.
	There are many varieties of tree and leafy
shrub that are exceedingly beautiful when
bursting into leaf, and each of these might
form a separate subject. The graceful long
leaved willows that fringe the brooklets on the
river's edge; although superstitiously sugges-
tive of melancholy and traditional as funereal in
aspect and bearing, yet, in the poetic mind, are
associated even "sweetly and cheerfully;" for
instance, Tennyson to the "Lady of Shallott:"

	"Willows whiten, aspens quiver,
	Little breezes dusk and shiver
	Through the waves that run for ever,
	By the island in the river
		Flowing down to Camelot."

	The simple word willow to me is poetry,
musical and melodious.

	"Sing willow, willow, willow,
	Sing all a green willow, must be my garland."

Desdemona says:

		"My mother had a maid called Barbara;
	She was in love, and he she loved proved mad,
		And did forsake her, she had a song of willow;
		An old thing 'twas, but it expressed her fortune,
			And she died singing it."

	These little snatches of quaint songs, per-
petuate the tradition, and it may be that poets
love to be melancholy or are imbued with a
tinge of sadness which renders them happier.
Is this paradoxical? This sentiment is one of
the things of which words do not convey the
whole meaning.
	The reed is another of these sad and musical
plants and by its long peculiar leaves is said
to suggest the idea of inditing, which endears
it all the more to the heart of the poet. At
this season of the year, the reeds are a pale,
exquisitely tasteful yellow, and as the soft, cool
wind sways and bends them hither and thither,
they make pathetic music which is intensely
"sweet, but sad." Keats expresses this fanciful
sentiment concerning the reeds fancifully, and
it accords with the strain in which I am writ-
ing.

	*	*	*	how did we weep to find
	Naught but a lonely sighing of the wind
	Along the reedy stream, a half-heard strain;
	Full of sweet desolation, balmy pain."

	N. P. Willis gives a truly poetical definition
of the reed and the willow:

	"The reeds bent down the stream,
	The willow leaves, whose flowers the water
	Like a gentle nurse bears on its bosom,
	Quietly gave way, and leaned
	In graceful attitudes to rest."

	The reed is often used as illustrative of
weakness; always ready to bow beneath every
breath of authority, yielding and submissive,
as some of the "lords of creation" who are
compared to sturdy oaks, desire women to be.
But as I am not moralizing, I will refrain from
giving my views on this point.
	In some countries there are many flowers
that make their appearance early in the season.
In England, among wild flowers, the yellow
daffodils bloom in March; and this pretty blos-
som is a favorite flower with some of the poets
well known to fame. Wordsworth speaks
gracefully in verse of the floral splendor of the
daffodils haunting him, he says, "They flash

[Column 3]

upon him in the bliss of solitude," and
Herrick thus laments their too early disappear-
ance:

		"Fair daffodils, we weep to see
		You waste away so soon;
	And yet the early rising sun
		Has not attained its noon;
			Stay, stay
	Until the hasting day
			Has run
		But to the even song.
	And having prayed together, we
		Wlli go with you along."

	And O, the violets of spring! who does
not love them? Modest, dainty and fragrant.
Who does not appreciate their lovely sweet-
ness? The perfume is wafted to my senses
from far off years; or, as one writer has beauti-
fully expressed it, "like far-off reminiscenses
of youth." The approach of spring speaks
tenderly to me of lovely flowers and hanging
vines, of the sweet music of song-birds, and
glad hum of bees, of gay butterflies, of young
lambs skipping and calves bleating, and all
these are most welcome to one whose heart is
in sympathy with the pulse of nature. And
while admiring all these, the works of a Su-
preme Being, let us look up and adore the great
Creator, not only of that which we see, but of
the soul by which we sense and enjoy them.
Like the psalmist of old, one might well ex-
claim at this season, "Let the heavens rejoice,
and let the earth be  glad.  Let the field be joy-
ful and all that is therein; then shall all the
trees of the wood rejoice."
		AUNT EM.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"John Ward, Preacher," has been "pirated"
in London. The authorized English edition
is published by Messrs. Longman & Co.
	The Michigan Legislature has passed a
bill allowing women to vote for and hold the
office of school inspector in Detroit.
	Miss Sanger, President Harrison's typewriter,
is said to be the first woman ever employed at
the White House in a clerical capacity.
	The Empress of Russia has given nearly
$50.000 to St Petersburg Hospital as a thank
offering for her escape from the recent rail-
road accident.
	Mrs. Gould, wife of the Unitarian minister
in Ministee, Mich., conducted  the services
morning and evening, on Sunday, recently,
during the absence of Prof. Gould.
	Mrs. Louisa Reed Stowell, teacher of micro-
scopical botany at the University of Michigan,
has been appointed special miscroscopic artist
of the botanical department at Washington.
	At the banquet of the Cornell freshmen, on
the eve of Washington's birthday, the young
women of the class were present for the first time.
The supper was so successful that this precedent
will probably be followed henceforward.
	The right of women to practise medicine
in Canada has been established by the suc-
cessful application of Miss Mitchell, a grad-
uate of Queens University, Kingston, for a
license. The Provincial Medical Board at
Quebec granted the license.
	It is a comfort to find a will like that of
John Mattocks, of Chicago, who left $60.000
his entire property, "absolutely and forever"
to his wife. There are several children, but
Mr. Mattocks evidently felt that his wife should
hold the same relation to the property that
he had held, and that she would not fail to
be just to the children. Neither would most
other mothers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	-	 Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,                                 APRIL 1, 1889.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The Fifty-ninth Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, will
commence at 10 o’clock on Saturday morning,
April 6th, 1889, in the Tabernacle, in Salt Lake
City.
	The officers and members of the Church are
cordially invited to attend.
				WILFORD WOODRUFF,
			In behalf of the Twelve Apostles.


[Column One]

UTAH WOMEN MISREPRESENTED.

	In The Woman's Journal of March 9th, 1889,
(a very ably edited paper published in Boston,
Mass.) in an article on suffrage entitled “Known
By Its Fruits” and signed H. B. B., we find the
following paragraph concerning Utah.
	“Utah gave woman suffrage in 1869. It proved
satisfactory both to the women and men of that
Territory. For eighteen years the women voted
as uniformly and as generally as the men.
Being Mormons they voted the Mormon ticket
like the men. Because they so voted they have
been disfranchised by Congress, in order to
lessen the Mormon power. But Utah cannot be
fairly cited either way, because every Mormon,
man or woman, is under a religious obligation to
vote “according to counsel.” Mormon suffrage
is a mere form. It is cast as a unit under the
order of the Church authorities, and does not rep-
resent any free individual choice whatever.”
	If we were not as a people, so accustomed to
misrepresentation, it would be astonishing, after
all that has been said recently in Congress and in
the Conventions of women concerning suffrage
here, to see a report of this kind coming as it
does from a man who ought to be rightly posted
on this question of woman suffrage in Utah and
all the other Territories or States. 
	Utah is not to be cited, either way because
“every Mormon man or woman is under a
religious obligation to vote according to counsel.”
Now as the women of Utah are the party of the
first part of this paragraph of H. B. B’s, because
it is woman’s suffrage to which he alludes,we will
speak from knowledge, personal and general on
this matter. We live in Utah and ought to know
better than Boston or New York people about
woman suffrage in the Territory of Utah, though
we cannot at the present time go into details, but
simply state over again, what has often been
asserted of late—that Mormon women voted with
the same freedom as Gentile women; each voted
for those they considered the best man to repre-
sent the people in the offices they were selected to
fill. Some Gentile women voted the “Peoples’
Party Ticket," so we have been informed on
good authority; that is we presume, the ticket

[Column Two]

H. B. B. would denominate the Mormon ticket;
the majority of Gentile women voted what is
known here as the “Liberal” ticket. Those were
the two political parties here at the time women
voted—since then there has been a Democratic
Party formed, and in all probility some women
would have voted on that ticket had the franchise
still been in their hands.
	We fail to see why suffrage, “cannot be fairly
cited either way,” here as elsewhere. In the
Territory women voted for all elective officers.
even for the Delegate to Congress, the women of
the Peoples’ Party for the candidate whose name
was on their ticket, the Liberals for their candi-
date in the same way.
	How that differs from other people's voting,
will H. B. B. have the kindness to consider ?
It is supposable that they vote for the men of
their choice, so did the women of Utah. When
H. B. B. talks about voting, “according to coun-
sel,” he speaks not from knowledge but from
hearsay. Lillie Devereux Blake, writes to The
Woman's Journal of conditions in Utah, having
paid a visit here last year, of a few days, but not
meeting Mormon women in public or in private,
to ascertain from them concerning a matter which
they must necessarily understand better than
lookers-on, especially those blinded by preujdice.
When one goes to Boston and wants to know
what woman suffrage is doing in that city, or
state, they go to the office of the woman’s paper
and to the representative women of that move-
ment, and not to the opposition, nor to the women
who sit in ease and indifference; they could not
give correct information; but when people come to
Utah they profess to know all about Mormon
women without ever seeing or talking with them;
and are prepared to lecture on Mormonism, and to
call them ignorant, degraded, and low; slaves to
the men. etc. etc.
	It is cruel and unjust to publish such notices.
Mormon women have as much love of liberty and
of country as other women, and are as much a
part of the great body politic. They have rights
too that ought to be respected and considered;
and never was there an act of greater injustice
perpetrated than the arbitrary act of Congress in
taking away the franchise from the women of this
Territory, Mormon, Jew and Gentile.
	What an outcry would be made by all the
woman suffragists if the women of Wyoming were
to have their franchise taken—but it is all right
for Utah, because they “vote according to coun-
sel.” Would that all the women of the United
States would vote according to their best convic-
tions as Mormon women did, when they enjoyed
the privilege; if they would and had a full and
complete suffrage extended to them, a great re-
formation would soon take place in all the de-
partments at Washington, and spread thence over
all this free and glorious country. Many other
motives animate voters beside the highest good
of the largest number; and it is a well known
fact that men’s votes are often bought for whiskey
and for other commodities perhaps less injurious.
Employers of men engaged in various pursuits
influence, if they do not actually control the
votes of those employed by them; they know
their support depends upon it, the bread and
butter for the children perhaps.
	In Utah the ballot is secret, so that one may
vote as he wishes, without any one knowing or
suspecting how his vote is cast, and this one fact
alone should be a correction of what H. B. B.
has said in the article referred to. “Mormon
suffrage" the writer says “is mere form;” does he
not know, has it not been frequently declared that
civil and ecclesiastical affairs in Utah are as much
separate and apart as anywhere else in the world,
and that no man holds a civil office because of his
position in the Church. Men of  influence,
honesty and integrity here as elsewhere are
selected to fill places of honor and of trust. Are

[Column Three]

not these the men who should occupy public
offices?	
	We hope H. B. B. will acceept this xplanation of
his article and believe that Mormon women under-
stand the condition of the suffrage in Utah better
than those at a distance. Also that they are well
aware of the fact that if it were in the power of
Mormon men, to grant suffrage to all women
they would not have to ask twice.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

     THERE will be a General Conference of the
Relief Society held sometime during April Annual
Conference; it is hoped and expected there will
be representative women from all the Stakes of
Zion present, and no doubt much needed instruc-
tion will be given.  Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, will
preside.
     C. W. PENROSE, Editor of the Deseret News,
is again at home after an absence of over four
years.  We rejoice to see him again in his accus-
tomed places, and to hear his voice in the public
assemblies of the Saints.  The WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT should extend cordial greeting to Elder
Penrose if only on account of his strong and able
advocacy of the woman question.
     ON the fifth of March ult., Mr. and Mrs. Wm.
S. Clark, of Orange, Mass., celebrated the fiftieth
anniversary of their marriage.  It is seldom that
husband and wife live together so uninterruptedly,
as they have done.  No very great sorrow has
come to them, and their lives have glided even and
smoothly along.  Truly might it be said, "Their
lines were cast in pleasant places."  Out of the
seventy-five guests assembled at the Golden Wed-
ding, there were three only who were present on
the fifth of March, 1839, two sisters and a brother
of the bride.  Many handsome and costly golden
gifts were received, some of them sent from long
distances.  Poems too, that had been written ex-
pressly for them, sent from Idaho and Kansas
(the one from Idaho we published in our last
issue) were read during the evening.  Music,
speeches, toasts and reminiscences of other days,
with delicious refreshments were the luxuries in-
dulged in, and everything went merrily as at the
former wedding, when both were "young and
charming."  Their years sit lightly on them in
the quiet of their New England village home, with
their children and children's children around
them.  May peace, prosperity, and contentment
also continue through their remaining years.  Mrs.
Clark is the sister of the writer, who remembers
every detail of the wedding in the old home, fifty
long years ago; when the large family of boys
and girls were all together, those now remaining are
scattered far and wide, but we are sure all join in
loving wishes for the bride and bridegroom of fifty
years ago, still faithful and true to the vows
plighted in the long ago, and journeying on together
through life's highways and by-ways, hand in 
hand and hearts in love united.


FAREWELL PARTY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
     On the nineteenth of February, the Teachers
of the Relief Society of Santaquin, and a few
others met in the school house for the purpose of
showing their respect to Sister Sarah Jane Halli-
day, (wife of Bishop George Halliday), who has
been called away, in connection with her hus-
band to American Fork.  She has been a faith-
ful teacher in the Relief Society of this ward; and 
in waiting upon the sick, she was always on hand,
we shall all regret losing one that has been so
good.  
     After all were seated, a short address, and a few
appropriate lines were read by the Secretary of 
the Relief Society.  Sister Halliday was then


presented with a neat purse containing money
which was donated by the sisters.
     She responded in a very impressive manner,
thanking the sisters for their kindness towards 
her, followed by her husband, who made a short
and affecting speech, thanking them all for their
kindness towards his wife; exhorting all to be
true to their religion, live united, and have charity
for each other.  Closed by asking God's blessing
to rest upon all. 
     Our newly appointed bishop, Brother Eli Open-
shaw, made some very appropriate remarks,
touching upon the excellent qualities of Sister
Halliday, and the good she had done in our com-
munity.  Brother J. C. Stickney also spoke of the
loss we would sustain, in parting with Sister
Halliday, and asked the Lord to bless her in her
new home.  President E. J. Stickney of the Re-
lief Society; Counselor Wall, Bettie Boss, presi-
dent of the teachers, and Counselor Ann J.
Stickney, made a few encouraging remarks.
Each one expressing regret in parting with Sister
Halliday. 
     All joined in wishing her a pleasant journey,
and health and happiness in her new home.
			     NETTIE TIETJEN, Secretary.
Santaquin, March 17th, 1889.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.]
SEVIER COUNTY W. S. A.

     In response to a call which was made by in-
fluential women of Sevier County, a number of
suffragists, ladies from different parts of the
county, met in the Richfield Relief Society Hall,
Thursday, March 14, 1889.
     Mrs. Elizabeth Bean stated that we had met
together to organize a Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion for Sevier County.  She then called for a 
nomination for a chairman of the meeting.
     Mrs. Celia E. Bean, nominated Mrs. Merinda
Halliday as chairman, which was seconded by
several ladies, and was carried.
     The Chairman then asked for nomination for a 
secretary; Mrs. Caroline Morrison then nomin-
ated Miss Sarah Gardner, as secretary of the
meeting; seconded by Mrs. Ina Bean.  Carried.
     Singing by the choir, "America."
     Mrs. Dorcas Farnsworth offered the opening
prayer.
     The Chairman then gave a synopsis of the call;
the ladies then proceeded to organize the Asso-
ciation; Mrs. Elizabeth Bean nominated Mrs. 
Celia E. Bean,  President; seconded by a number 
of ladies.  Carried.
     The Chairman then asked for a nomination of
three Vice-Presidents; Mrs. Ina Bean nominated
Mrs. Louisiana Heppler, as First Vice-President;
Miss Aggie Gardner nominated Mrs. Caroline
Sylvester, Second Vice-president; Mrs. S. J.
Spencer nominated Mrs. Thurza Thurber, Third
Vice-President, seconded and carried.
     Mrs. C. E. Bean nominated Miss Flora D.
Bean, Secretary of the Association; seconded
and carried.  Mrs. Dorcas Farnsworth nominated
Miss Allice Hoyt, Corresponding Secretary;
seconded and carried.
     Mrs. Thurza Thurber nominated Mrs. Maria
Hansen, Treasurer; seconded and carried. Miss
Aggie Gardner, was elected Chairman of Execu-
tive Committee, and the names of Mrs. Henrietta
Wright, Mrs. I. F. Bean, Mrs. Minnie A. Nebeker
and Mrs. Caroline Morrison, were presented as
members of Executive Committee, and were sus-
tained by vote.
     Mrs. Celia E. Bean, moved that the Committee
on By-Laws be appointed by the Chairman.
Carried.  Mrs. Lola M. Farnsworth, Mrs. M. Seeg-
miller and Mrs. Emma Spafford, were accordingly
appointed and sustained.  The committee then
retired.  During their absence a very interesting
speech on "Woman Suffrage" was given by Mrs.

[column 2]
C. E. Bean.  By request of the Chairman, Hon.
Wm. H. Seegmiller addressed the audience.
"The Rights of Women;" the subject received
its due analysis.  The Secretary read the Con-
stitution of "The National Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation."  Mrs. Elizabeth Bean moved that the
Constitution be adopted.  Seconded and carried.
By request of the Chairman, Mrs. Louisiana
Heppler addressed the audience; her remarks
were truly worthy of the highest commendation.
The Committee on By-Laws having returned, the
Chairman of the Committee, Mrs. L. M. Farns-
worth, read the By-Laws and Regulations.  Mrs.
Elizabeth Bean moved that they be read, and
voted upon separately.
     The Secretary then proceeded to read them.
Mrs. Celia E. Bean moved that the labors of the
Committee on By-Laws be accepted and the Com-
mittee excused.  Seconded and carried.  The
following is a copy of the By-Laws and Regula-
tions.

ARTICLE I.
     This Association shall be called the Woman
Suffrage Association, of Sevier County, Utah.
ARTICLE II.
     The object of the Association shall be to work
for the enfranchisement of all women, without re-
gard to party, sect, or creed, and to take such
steps as shall seem to be wise and expedient for
the political advancement of this county.
ARTICLE III.
     The officers of this Association shall be a Presi-
dent, three Vice-Presidents, a Secretary, Corres-
ponding Secretary, and Treasurer, with an Exe-
cutive Committee of not less than five.
ARTICLE IV.
     All persons wishing to become members of this
Association, must pay an initiation fee of twenty-
five cents annually, and must give their names
with the money to the Secretary, who will present
them in the order of business, to the next regular
meeting for admission.
ARTICLE V.
     The officers of this Association, with the Execu-
tive Committee, shall have power to change or
amend the By-Laws and Regulations at any exe-
cutive session, and shall then submit them to the
regular meeting, where they may be adopted by
a majority vote.
ARTICLE VI.
     The Executive Committee shall devise plans of
work suited to the development and progress of
members of the Association, and co-operate
together with the members in encouraging young
people to speak, write essays, and discuss ques-
tions upon political matters, and such other sub-
jects as relate thereto, and invite those already
interested in suffrage, and encourage them to
become acquainted with the objects of the organi-
zation.
ARTICLE VII.
     All official papers and documents shall be
signed by the President and Secretary, or, in the
absence of the President, by the Vice-President
next in order.  And all official correspondence
must be signed by the Chairman of the Executive
Committee, and the Corresponding Secretary.
ARTICLE VIII.
     Regular meetings of the Association shall be
held once a month, and such business transacted
as shall be brought to the attention of the meet-
ing by the Executive Committee, or other officers,
after which miscellaneous business, or discussion
will be in order.
ARTICLE IX.
     A punctual attendence of the members is re-
quested in order to further the interests and pro-
mote harmony in all plans and methods of or-
ganized work.
     After the adoption of the By-Laws and Regu-
lations, Mrs. Elizabeth Bean expressed in fitting
terms, her ideas in regard to the Association.
     Mrs. H. Wright moved that an account of the or-

[column 3]
ganization be published in the Richfield Advocate.
Carried.  The ladies came forward and were en-
rolled members of the Association.
     An adjournment was moved and seconded, and
meeting was adjourned until an appointment
should be published by the Secretary.
							E. B. BEAN.
Richfield, March 20th, 1889.


J. EDWARD PFEIFFER.
		    ————
	Through the Woman's Journal and other
papers we have learned of the death of Jurgen
Edward Pfeiffer.  The gentleman had been in
ill health for the last two years, although his
friends had good hopes of his recovery.  The
papers speak of him as a man of “remarkable
energy and promptitude” in business and in all
his transactions in life.  His success in mer-
cantile affairs was largely due to these qualities
of his character.  Mr. Pfeiffer was a German,
a native of Altona—but went to England when
a young man, nineteen years of age; the papers
state that not long after he went to England
“he was made executor of his father’s will, and
voluntarily gave up his own share in that
testament to the advantage of his relations
resolved to owe everything to his own exer-
tions."  He created the China branch in a
great London house, and has amassed an im-
mense fortune.
	The home of Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer as des-
cribed by them to the present writer was a most
delightful place, and one could almost fancy it
from their own description to be a perfect
model of an English gentleman’s home.  Miss
Alice Stone Blackwell, of the Woman’s Journal
describes it just as we had pictured it in our
own mind. “A glimpse of fairy land—the
great quiet garden, with its nicely kept Eng-
lish turf, the long green walks, the delicately
contrasted foliage of the shrubbery, the multi-
tude of roses, and the row of huge aspen trees,
their trunks overgrown with ivy and looking
like massive pillars.  Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer
had themselves laid out this garden, originally
rough waste ground over which they rode on
horseback.” Their visit to the United States
was in 1884, and they visited this city in Octo-
ber—called at the office of the WOMAN'S 
EXPONENT on the 20th, we accompanied them
to the Lion House and other places, introduced
them to Sister Eliza and others.  The next day
they dined at the Gardo House by invitation
of President Taylor—and spent the evening of
the 22d at our home, a few friends having
been invited to meet them.
	Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer is a writer and poet of
considerable celebrity writes for the Contem-
porary Review and other standard English
journals, she is a staunch woman suffragist,
and has written some very excellent articles on
the subject.  She handles the matter differently
from most of the advocates of the cause, and
gives it some literary prestige.  Her article in
the Contemporary Review of February, 1881,
entitled “Woman’s Claim,” is one of the best
if not the best essay on the question of equal-
ity of the sexes we have ever heard.  That
our readers may have some idea of its merits,
we will quote one or two paragraphs.
	“A great deal has been said, and still being
said, about the alteration of the relations of
the sexes, which might be expected to result
from any extension of the franchise in the
manner demanded.  I own I find it difficult to
respond to these fears with becoming serious-
ness.  If there be one thing of which Nature
is careful, she is careful of her types, and while
that “likeness in unlikeness,” subsists which is
at the base of physical attraction, there is
little fear of sexual relations being either 
reversed or annulled.  So long as the maternal
function continues tenderly to fashion the
hearts of women, so long as the voices of
men retain their resonance, and until their


bodies lose their superior power of action and
endurance, and their capacity for food and
sleep, so long will there be little doubt that the
saying of our neighbor, “La barbe impose” will
remain substantially correct.  These quasi-
material causes might be out of place, where
abstract justice answered to a rigid logic, but
in this world of incalculable movements of
checks and counter-checks, they present them-
selves as something more than the “windage”
for which in all reasoning we are bound to
allow.  It would seem that the alarmists
above mentioned are reckoning without that
great primal force which binds together man
and woman and for which the higher develope-
ments are forover forging stronger if more
spiritual links.  I would bid them take cour-
age in remembering the comparative stability
of the operations of nature, judged by the
shortness of the days of man; in any case, to
plant a quiet hope in the largeness of these
grants of time demanded for the changes she
is supposed to effect.”
     After elaborating still further upon this
subject in the most effective style of reasoning
and referring to the time “when physical force
ruled the world,” etc., and a woman who had no
man to marry her was forced to seek the refuge
of the cloister,” and dwelling upon the condi-
tions of the sexes under those circumstances,
she says: “But now a day has come when if
the “seven women” of the prophet would not
“take hold on one man” some of them must
be resigned to belong to themselves, and pre-
pared to stand up and fight the battle of life
alone.”
*	*	*	* “The rate-paying, law-abiding
property-holding, professional, or working
woman is suffered to have no voice in the regu-
lation of the taxes, or the laws under which
she must live or die; and if they would influ-
ence them at all, they must have recourse to
the nearest man—possibly her brother, coach-
man or gardener, or the laborer in her fields—
as the stalking horse of her own unrecognized
personality.”
     She then treats eloquently the state of de-
pendent tutelage of woman etc., and quotes
from Shakespeare:

	"There is a divinity which shapes our ends,"

and reasons further thus: "Had it so continued
that every woman in these Isles could have
“dropped into the jaws” of some one man and
so “ceased” its a social unit, it is highly prob-
able that no word would have been heard
among us of any further suffrage."
      "But the stream of tendency which sets in
the way of woman's advance is irresistible, and
the vital rational principles incorporated in her
claim, could in the end win alone in the
struggle with material resistance."

			"The soul of things is strong;
	A seedling's heaving heart has moved a stone."

	"The march of civilization is one sure, if slow,
progression from the ruleof the strongest to the
equal right devine, and it will not stop short of
its legitimate end."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS
BEAVER STAKE.
	The Beaver Stake Relief Society conference
was held on Friday, March 1st, in the Latter-
day Saints meeting house, Beaver City, fore-
noon and afternoon.
	President Lucinda Howd presided.  There
were present representatives from the various
wards, Sister Ellen Lunt, stake president of
Relief Society of Iron County; President
Murdock and Counselors; Bishop Smith and 
other brethern, and quite a good showing of
the sisters. 

[Column 2]
	The verbal reports from the different presi-
dents showed a fair condition of each society.
A good work had been done the past winter in 
caring for the poor and sick. 	
	The great burden of the instructions from 
the different speakers was the training of our
children.  They should be taught to pray, and
that we have a prayer hearing God.  Teach
them faith in every principle of the Gospel,
and see that they keep good company.
	The necessity of progression, of humility
and dependence upon the Lord was dwelt upon.
The great mission of the sisters, and the many
good works they had performed were referred
to:
	Sister Lunt bore her testimong to the truth
of this work and the divinity of Celestial
Marriage.  Said she knew it would exalt every
man and woman who had entered into it with
pure hearts and had kept their covenants.
She also spoke of the good influence we should
carry with us, and gave some interesting re-
miniscences of her early life. 
	Brother Fotheringham spoke of the wheat
and tares growing together and the day of 
separation that is to come.  Said we would have
to be purified as gold seven times tried in the 
fire.  Referred to the trials and persecutions
we are undergoing, and said there were some
of the greatest heroines living now, that had
been upon the earth.  The speaker expressed
his pleasure in seeing and hearing President
Woodruff and Apostle Cannon speak to the 
people the previous Sunday in Salt Lake, and
thought the cloud that had been hanging over
the people so long, had lifted a little so we 
could get a glinpse of its silver lining. 
	The Stake and local officers of the Relief
Society were unanimously sustained.  The
choir sang "Glory to God on High" and bene-
diction pronounced by Robert Stoney, closed 
what had been a very enjoyable conference,
although not as numerously attended as others
which have been held in this Stake. 
	A spirit of peace and union prevailed dur-
ing the conference, and all who attended felt 
to rejoice. 
					LOUISA JONES,
			Stake Secretary, Relief Society.
UTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Utah Stake 
was held in the meeting house Provo City,
March 1st, 1889.  Prest. Mary John presiding.
	Conference opened with singing and prayer;
reading of minutes etc., and reports from the 
different branches in the county.
	President Mary John thought we had con-
siderable to encourage us.  "Although it looks
rather gloomy at present, there is a good time
coming for the Saints."  Referred to the signs
of the times etc.
	Counselor Emily G. Cluff thought we should
all concentrate our thoughts in prayer that the
speakers may say something that will edify and
instruct.  Spoke of the similitude of our ex-
periences to that of our Savior while on this 
earth; reviewed our coming into these valleys,
and of the love existing among us as a people
at that time.  "We are and have been perse-
cuted, but if we are humble and prayerful we
will succeed; we should each have a testimony
of the truth for ourselves," etc.
	The presidents of the different branches
gave very satisfactory reports of those over 
whom they were called to preside.  Conference
adjourned till 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session.  Conference opened with
the usual exercises.  Sister Marilla M. Daniels
said:  "I want to bear my testimony to the 
truth of this work; if we live up to the light
we have received we will come off victorious.
We are to be perfected through suffering like 
our Savior, he never shrank from suffering al-
though he sweat great drops of blood.  We

[Column 3]
gain the good spirit by coming to meeting, and
we are stirred up to remembrance by so doing."
Spoke of the Primary and urged parents to
send their children to those meetings, their
boys as well as their girls.
	Sister Standring gave a good report of the 
Lehi Society and said:  "I realize that it is
through the goodness of God that we exist."
Spoke of laboring in the Manti Temple and of
the power of God manifested therein.  "I
know that God lives, and if we draw nigh unto
Him, He will draw nigh unto us."  Felt that 
the Lord was with us by his Holy Spirit to-
day; when we hear sisters bear their testimonies
to the truth of this work, we know they are in
the pathway of their duties.  We are passing
through a school of experience, and if we are
faithful we have the promise of returning to 
our Father's presence again to dwell with Him
for evermore.  We are called to great responsi-
bilities and shall have to render an account
for what has been placed upon us; let the
kingdom of God be first in our thoughts; the
power of God is gained through knowledge;
the Savior has passed through what we are pass
ing through;  This kingdom will never be
thrown down and we will be made to rejoice.
Let us keep our covenants that we may receive
the words "well done good and faithful ser-
vant."
	Brother Allred, by invitation of President
John, spoke to the sisters.  Said he felt blessed
in meeting with the sisters; but if he should
attempt to refer to the good things that had 
been said, he would have to repeat all that he
had heard for it had been a stream of good
things springing up unto everlasting life;
endorsed what had been said in reference to
sending our children to the Primary meetings;
thought it the duty of parents not only to send
their children but to go with them occasionally
themselves.  Knew the Lord would be well
pleased if we would obey "the word of wisdom."
The Lord is trying to unite us for He has
said: "if ye are not one ye are not mine" etc.
	Anna K. Smoot followed with some truly
appropriate remarks on various subjects, after
which Prest. John adjourned the conference for
three months.  She felt the spirit of God had 
been with us through this conference etc.
Benediction by Brother Graves.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake was held in the Four-
teenth Ward assembly rooms, in this City,
Thursday, March 4, 1889, Mrs. M. I. Horne
presiding.  On the platform were also seated
President Zina D. H. Young, Counselor, B. W.
Smith and the Stake secretary.  Conference
opened by singing "Once more we come before
our God," prayer by Mrs. E. Howard; sing-
ing, "Where the voice of friendship's heard."
Roll called and seventeen Presidents eight
Counselors, and two Secretaries responded.
Minutes of the previous conference were read
and accepted, also reports from 42 branches of
this Stake.
	President Zina D. H. Young was the first
speaker, she made many excellent suggestions
in regard to the various duties of the society,
and spoke especially about the storing of
wheat; thought the integrity and good works 
of the sisters a matter of rejoicing. 
	President Horne read a letter from an Elder
in England soliciting means for a distressed
family in Rainham England, her native town;
she asked the sisters to help in this matter.
She spoke of her visit to the penitentiary the
day previous, to see her son, Bishop Joseph
Horne, who was there suffering imprisonment
for conscience sake.  Made other remarks
appropriate to the occasion.
	Counselor B. W. Smith spoke of the en-


couraging reports that had been received, and
that she would like all who could afford it to
pay one dollar yearly toward the Deseret
Hospital. “President Taylor in his lifetime
enjoined it upon us to sustain this institution,”
said all is well in Zion if we try with all our
might mind and strength to do right.
	President Horne referred to the Stake
Conference held recently and said “If we have
the spirit of God we will rejoice that we have
passed through adversity and come out safe,
having oil in our lamps; the Lord takes notice
of our works, all we do is recorded in the Book
of Life.” Singing, Doxology. Benediction
by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox.
	Afternoon session. Opened with singing
“Our God we raise to Thee,” prayer by Mrs.
Mary S. Clark; singing, “For the strength of
the hills we bless Thee.” President Horne
then addressed the sisters on very interesting
topics, and was followed by the presidents of
the Relief Society of Riverton, South Jordan,
Draper, Big Cotton Wood, Sandy, Union,
Herriman and Brighton. Mrs. Mary L. Clark
of Farmington, Mrs. Mary E. Porter of
Granger, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze President of
the Y. L. M. I. A., Mrs. M. A. Mousley of
Bluffdale, Mrs. Susan S. Young each spoke a
short time, giving some incidents and experi-
ences, and bearing strong testimonies to the
truth of the Gospel; their remarks were re-
plete with good instructions and exhortation
to good works.
	President Horne read over again the letter
from England and a free donation of fifty
dollars was given by the sisters present.
	Mrs. Z. D. H. Young spoke of kindness and
wisdom, the storing of wheat, and home manu-
facture; urged all to be self sustaining; hoped
to see efforts made in the silk manufacture,
the raising of cocoons, etc.; thought it would
be a great source of wealth in this community.
Desired the sisters might walk in the light of
the Gospel continually and obtain favor with
Heaven.
	Counselor B. W. Smith spoke of the necessity
of a true testimony and that we should teach
our children to observe the golden rule, to
do to others as we wish them to do to us.
Alluded to the coming of the Savior and the
preparation necessary; thought we should be 
moderate in all things and set a good example
for others to follow.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
singing, “We thank Thee O God for a Prophet.”
Benediction by Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson.
				E. HOWARD, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMEN’S POLITICAL CLUBS.

	There are a good many women’s clubs in
the city instituted for various purposes, but,
perhaps, the most practical is the Political 
Club, or society for political study, as the
members call it. It started as an auxiliary to
the New York Suffrage League, and although 
they have never separated themselves from the
league, they choose to consider that they are 
no longer an auxiliary. This club meets every 
Tuesday afternoon at the home of Miss 
Thomas, 32 West, Twenty sixth street, and
any lady may become a member by paying 50
cents a year. The object of the club is to
teach women how to talk—an art in which
they need no instruction, some misogynist
would say. But it is to teach them parliamen-
tary rules, how to speak in public and to pre- 
pare them for the rights of suffrage, by giving
them instruction in various matters with which
every voter should be familiar. The city gov 
ernment was the first topic dealt with, after
that the different administrations were studied,
and for the last four weeks the ladies have
been handling the subject of finance.—New
York Star.


LETTER FROM SAMOA.
AUNUII, SAMOAN ISLANDS,
	Sunday, January 21st, 1889.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I received your interesting and ever welcome
papers of September and October, and can
truthfully say that I took more real pleasure
in reading the contents of the same, than I
ever experiened in reading the most interesting
book; allow me to thank you very much for
your kindness.
	I once heard a young missionary say, that
while on his mission, news, or in fact anything
from home, afforded him much pleasure and
was of great interest to him.
	We often realize that feeling where we are;
opening a new mission, far from our beauti-
ful mountain home, our dear relatives and
friends, among an uncivilized people; still we
have much to be thankful for; we are meeting
with success in our field of labor, the harvest
seems ripe, and it fills our hearts with joy and
satisfaction to find it so. Although at present
we are not doing as much as might be expected;
on account of the country being in a revolution-
ary state, and the fact that, as yet, we have
not mastered the language.
	We hope, that before long, the governmental
affairs of these islands will be in a more settled
condition; so that the minds of the people will
be open to receive something besides, “wars
and rumors of war.”
	We have a nice frame house built American
style, it is the only one of that style on this
island. The native houses are built with an
oval roof, supported by posts about four feet
apart. The space between the floor and roof,
which is from four to five feet, is left open, ex-
cept in case of storm. At such times shutters,
made of matting tied to the roof, can be let
down instantly around the entire house. The
floor consists of coral pebbles, covered with
mats. There is never but one room in a house;
small ropes are stretched across the room, a
little higher than one’s head; over which is a 
"siapo" or native cloth. This is rolled up in
the morning, and let down in the evening,
forming sleeping apartments, and at the same
time protecting the sleeper from the mosquitoes,
which are very numerous at all times, in this
warm climate.
	These people are not a progressive people,
the hot climate naturally causes them to lead
a lazy, indolent life; and as their daily food
grows without much labor, and their clothing
costs very little [because there is very little of
it] they do not have to do much manual labor.
	The Christian ministers have been working
among this people some fifty years, so we are
informed. Of course they have done consider-
able good, in their way; but the Lord, through
his servants, has to do the work over again,
because it was not done properly. By-the-by
a member of the London Missionary Society—
Mr. Clark—called to see us soon after our
arrival. He inquired if we expected to organize
a branch of our Church here. We answered
that we assuredly did, that we had traveled
over five thousand miles for that purpose. He
replied, and I have come over ten thousand
miles to stop you. Outside of his religious
views Mr. C--- seems quite a gentleman.
	This is the place where women are respected,
and have their rights. The men gather the
fuel, make the fires, cook all the food, and set
it out for their wives. In fact, the women do
very little but braid mats and fans, at which
they are experts. A few days ago, one of the
Samoan men told us that American men were
no good, they were bad for letting their wives
do the cooking. We told him the American
man had to work all day to get something  for
their wives to cook and wear. He became
quite indignant and said, Samoan men work
[Column 2]
too, still they do the cooking. We told him
he slept most of the day. They work from
about sun rise until eleven a. m., then sleep
until the cool of the evening. There are
many sick and we are kept quite busy admin-
istering to their wants, and relieving them of
their pain as much as possible. We find that
patience is a virtue, that it is good under all
circumstances, and as disciples of a patient
Savior, we strive to cultivate it. We find
this people kind hearted, but very childish,
and we have to exercise great patience with
them. I hope I have not wearied you, I realize
that I cannot put my thoughts together as
nicely as some; but we all have to make a 
beginning. 
				LOUIE CALDER LEE.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Mary Louise Booth, editor of Harper’s
Bazar, died at her residence, No. 101 Fifty-
ninth Street, New York, on the 5th inst, at 5
p.m. The immediate cause of her death was
pleurisy and obstruction of the lungs.
	Miss Booth was born April 19, 1831, at
Millville, now Yaphank, on the east end of
Long Island, where six generations earlier her
ancestor, John Booth, bought Shelter Island
from the Indians for 100 yards of calico. Her
father was a school teacher, and she acquired
under his care a remarkably fine education,
being one of the best French scholars in the
country. She did not remember learning to
speak or read French. She had read through
the Bible and Plutarch’s “Lives” before she
was five, mastered Racine in the original when
she was seven, and began to study Latin with
her father. She obtained her early education
at the district school, of which her father was
the teacher; afterward she passed through
several academies and seminaries of Long
Island. In 1844, her father removed to
Williamsburg, now East Brooklyn, as principal
of a public school. She became a teacher, but
her health failed and she relinquished the
position. She contributed tales and sketches
to various journals and magazines. While
yet in her teens she compiled "The Marble
Workers' Manual" and "The Clockmakers'
Manual"—books of a dry, masculine type, still
regarded as standard works. She rendered
rapidly into English the works of Eugene
Sue, Mery, Cousin, Marmier, Dumas and
Edmond About. While scarcely more than a
girl, she wrote the history of New York, in
two volumes, eliciting from Washington Irving
a letter of warm encouragement. A new edi-
tion appeared in 1880.
	During the Rebellion she did notable service
for the Union by translating works of noted
foreigners. In 1861 she got the advance sheets
of Gasparin's "Uprising of a Great People."
and rushed to Scribner's. "Yes," said the
astute caterer, "but the war will be over in a
month, and we can't get it out as soon as that."
She persisted. “If you will give me the copy
in a week, I’ll try it,” he said. She went
home, worked twenty hours out of every
twenty-four; in less than a week the copy was
all in hand, and in a fortnight the work was
out. It made a tremendous sensation, and did
much to rouse the North. Sumner and Lincoln
sent her letters of thanks. Thus she was en-
listed for the fight. She translated the works
of Cochin, Laboulaye, Martin, Comte du Mon-
talembert, Dupanloup, etc., from advance
sheets, which those authors sent to her.
Sumner wrote that Cochin’s words were "more
valuable to the cause than the Numidian
cavalry to Hannibal." She translated Labou-
laye's "Fairy Tales," and fifteen or twenty
other volumes, and when the Harpers started
their Bazar, in 1867, she naturally became its
editor. She devoted herself with character-


istic energy and industry to the condu t of
that journal, and it was due largely to her
efforts that it became an immediate and con-
tinued success. In business matters she was
keenly direct and business like, but in society
she was singularly graceful and winning, and
her Saturday evening reunions were always
attended by people prominent in the literary
world. Her amiable and illustrious character
and career will be to other women an inspira-
tion and a prophecy.—Woman's Journal.
		H. B. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ERNESTINE ROSE.

	This celebrated woman of whom we have
heard so much and known so little, is still
living in England, and the Woman's Penuy
Paper published there, recently gave a very
interesting account of her, from which we
make a few brief extracts. This venerable
champion of the cause of woman's emancipa-
tion, certainly deserves the gratitude and
honor of the women of America, for the
noble efforts she has made in behalf of better
laws and better conditions
	"Ernestine Rose was born in 1810, and thus
is now seventy-eight years old. Her great
life work is over, and she is waiting, in suffer-
ing and infirmity, to be buried in England
by the side of her husband who died six years
ago.
	" 'Our lives were as one,' she said; 'he re-
joiced in my work, and gladly furnished the
means for my journeys and lectures.' And
then she showed me his portrait, which was
hanging near her chair. I ventured to inquire
what had led her in her youth to think of
the emancipation of woman, for I knew she
was the daughter of a Jewish Rabbi living
in Poland, and I wondered how her light had
come to her.
	" 'At an early age,' she began reading the
Hebrew Scriptures, and met with difficulties
of belief at every step; when she requested
explanations, she was told, 'little girls must
not ask questions,' she could not see why 'a
little girl' should not have the same right as a
little boy to ask questions."
	Sixty years ago she began lecturing, and
has "spoken all over the States in behalf of
human rights in general, and woman's rights
in particular." "Although very infirm in body,
her face bears the stamp of noble and vigorous
intellect. Her features have strength and
dignity, and her large dark eyes seem to have
lost little of their fire."
	"The life of this wonderful woman is full
of interest. At the age of fourteen she re-
nounced her belief in the Bible, as it had
been interpreted to her by Rabbinical teachers,
and the religion of her father, and this caused
her great trouble and persecution. At the
age of sixteen she lost her mother. A year
after she was involved in a law suit, in which
she pleaded her own cause and won it; but
left the property with her father, declaring
that she cared nothing for it, but only for jus-
tice. and that her inheritance might not fall
into mercenary hands. She then traveled in
various countries in Europe, witnessing and
taking part in important affairs. She came
to England, made the acquaintance of Robert
Owen, and warmly espoused his principles.
In 1836 she married William E. Rose, and
went with him to reside in New York. Soon
after her arrival she began her fifty years
of reform work, speaking for anti-slavery,
religious liberty and woman's rights. She
sent her first petition to the New York Legis-
lature to give married women the right to
hold property in 1836, to which after a great
deal of trouble, she obtained five signatures!
And she continued petitioning till 1849, when
the law was enacted. Many times she ad-

[Column 2]

dressed the New York Legislature, a privilege
of American women which we do not yet enjoy
here. In spite of hardships and expense
(for she never made a charge or took a collec-
tion) she traveled in summer and winter, in
highways and byways, whenever there was an
opportunity to work, and always bad good
audiences and attentive listners. In America
she is ranked with Frances Wright, Harriet
Martineau and Lucretia Mott; American women
say they cannot estimate how much of the free-
dom they now enjoy they owe to this Polish woman
'Those who sat with her on the platform will
remember her matchless powers as a speaker,
and how safe they all felt while she had the
floor, that neither in manner, sentiment, argu-
ment nor repartee, would she in any way com-
promise the dignity of the occasion. As a
speaker she was pointed, logical and impas-
sioned. She not only dealt in abstract prin-
ciples clearly, but in their application touched
the deepest emotions of the human soul.'
	"One of her strongest characteristics was
the fearlessness and scorn of compromise with
which she advocated her principles."


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Argument, as usually managed, is the worst
sort of conversation; as it is generally, in books,
the worst sort of reading.—Swift.
	The shortest and surest way to live with
honor in the world, is to be in reality what we
would appear to be; and if we observe, we shall
find that all humane virtues increase and
strengthen themselves by the practice and ex-
perience of them.—Socrates.
	We put a halo about the people of the past,
but I think if the times demanded them it
would be found we have now living in the year
1889, fifty Martin Luthers, fifty George Wash-
ingtons, fifty Lady Huntingtons, fifty Elizabeth
Frys.—Talmage.
	I never had any faith in luck at all, except
that I believe good luck will carry a man over
a ditch if he jumps well, and will put a bit of
bacon into his pot if he looks after his garden
and keeps a pig. Luck generally comes to
those who look after it; and my notion is, it
taps once in a life-time, at every one's door,
but if industry does not open it, away it goes.
—Spurgeon.


OBITUARY.

	Died, in Oak Creek, February 27th, 1889, Elizabeth
Lovell, wife of the late John Lovell, born in England,
March 10th, 1806.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	We, the sisters of the Relief Society unanimously adopt
the following Resolutions to the memory of Sister Elizabeth
Lovell.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from our midst by the hand of death, our beloved sister
and friend; therefore be it,
	Resolved, that we recognize in the death of our sister,
the loss of a friend, and former treasurer of the Relief
Society.
	Resolved, That we esteem her goodness, patience and
uncomplaining endurance, as an example worthy of imita-
tion by the sisters of the Society.
	Resolved, that these Resolutions be spread on the
record of the Relief Society, and that we condole with
those called to mourn the loss of as good and kind a
friend as Sister Lowell.

	Rest in peace, dear Sister Lovell,
		Now your earthly labor's done
	You can join in sweet communion
		With the Father and the Son,
	You are worthy of their presence
		For you lived a noble life,
	Kind and faithful as a mother
		Ever faithful as a wife.

			MARY M. LYMAN, Secretary, R. S.


Training School for Nurses

     On the fifteenth of May, the Second Term of Dr.
Hughes' Training School for Nurses begins, a class
 of twelve (12) students completing their first term of
three months on the fourth of May. This is the
first Training School for Nurses established in
Utah, and the instruction given embraces the best
methods of teaching of the Eastern Schools, whose
systems have been thoroughly investigated by the
teacher. The purpose of this school is to give a
wider knowledge of waiting upon the sick, and all
the branches pertaining to nursing will be thorough-
ly discussed in the successive terms. The second
term will be held in Dr. Hughes' new residence, on
First West Street. Students desiring to enter, should 
make application as early as possible, so that ar- 
rangements can be made for securing text books. 
	TUITION,       -	  -         -   $25.00.
     Special arrangements can be made for Obstetrical
teaching. Address: 
M. P. Hughes,
P. O. Box 575.                               Salt Lake City, Utah.

WANTED.
Gentlemen and Ladies of good address and 
education to enter a commercial business,
where promotion and salary at three dollars 
per day is guaranteed, small security required
"or bonds," Address for further particulars,
		M. GLASSFORD,
			354 E. Brigham Street,
				Salt Lake City, Utah. 

     DRS. SHIPP'S
Class in Obstetrics and Nursing.
     DRS. E. R. and M. C. SHIPP
     Will commence another class in OBSTETRICS,
on Monday, April 15th, 1889. By request they
will also teach a separate class for Nurses.
     For particulars apply to Dr. E. R. Shipp, 16
Main Street, or Maggie C. Shipp, 30 South First
West Street. 

R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY. 
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
   Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	         112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

     DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
      Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
      Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1889.	NO. 22.


BE PATIENT,

Oh! "what can we do"? 'tis a question
	The children of sorrow repeat,
When the trust that to love is most vital,
	No longer with strength is replete;
When the lack of exalted perfection
	In dear ones too plainly is seen,
When life looks indeed like a failure—
	The threads so entangled have been.
'Tis hard when endurance seems wasted,
	And the heart for a recompense yearns,
When instead of substantial affection—	
	A shadow is all it discerns.
How many bright visions have vanished
	Like snow 'neath the sun's scorching ray?
How many discouraged and weary—
	Deplore shatter'd idols to-day?
Poor mourners' ye needs must be patient;
	But wherefore be bow'd to the sod?
Cease to glorify fallible mortals
	And learn to depend upon God !

Oh! what can we do? plead the parents
	Heart-wounded by daughters and sons—
Disconsolate fathers and mothers,
	Who mourn for their prodigal ones;
Could ye do, (Oh, ye bow'd and afflicted)
	Any more than you've willingly done?
'Tis a pity, from fountains the clearest,
	Some streamlets are soil'd as they run.
Alas ! there are subtle temptations;
	Mere tinsel, oft' glitters as gold;
Fierce Wolves—wait around in Sheep's clothing,
	To lead foolish lambs from the fold.
Yet, what can we do for these weak ones—
	But warn them, and ceaselessly pray,
For the angels of Mercy to guard them
	From evil, by night and by day?
And all the day long like "Our Father,"
	To the penitent "hold out our hands;"
Is it needful by harshness to sever—
	The ties that should bind us as bands?

If the whirlwinds of folly have injured
	A part of our family tree—
If a bough stripped of freshness and beauty
	Is even unsightly to see—
Though it mates not the blossoming branches,
	Be patient ! for aught that we know—
The sap from the trunk, may restore it,
	And strong as the rest it might grow.
But oh! when we fear that forever,
	Our own will be blighted and bare,
God only, can soothingly answer,
	The wailings of utter despair.

Ah! truly, what terrible heart-aches—
	The thoughtless, the reckless can bring;
Can deluge the household with sorrow,
	And sharp as a serpent can sting
The friends, who have trusted and loved them,
	The friends who would sooner have died—
E'er one of their number had parted
	With honor, and requisite pride.

Alas ! for the lack of compassion—
	For hearts that in silence must sigh;
The evil, for evil are watching,
	And all that is wrong they espy,
The finger of malice too often
	Is pointed with triumph and scorn,
At those who, more blameless are bleeding,
	Pierced through with ingratitude's thorn.
Some, forget, that the Lord has thus spoken:
	Whosoe'er shall calamity see—
And make it a cause for rejoicing,
	By calamity troubled shall be.

And what can we do but, be patient?
	Though stricken like Jacob of old,
When the patriarch's pride, even Joseph,
	By his brethren was hated and sold,

[Column 2]

Ah ! little they cared, that with anguish
	Their father's grey head was bow'd down;
And little they listened to conscience,
	Or feared the Omnipotent's frown.
But good out of evil oft' cometh,
	As even to Joseph, the youth,
For nought would he barter his honor,
	His trust was in God and in Truth.
Did shame cling at all to his garments
	Though his brethren were guilty of crime?
The worthy can woo consolation,
	And wait compensation's own time.

Perchance, 'twould suppress sweet compassion,
	And needlessly pamper our pride;
If the current of life all around us,
	Should smoothly and gracefully glide.
Can they pity the sorely afflicted
	Who never were tempted and toss'd?
Oh, how could we sense a bereavement—
	If nothing we ever had lost ?
Be patient ! "Ye heavily laden,"
	Be hopeful, 'twill lighten your care;
Be thankful, "the back fits the burden,"
	Be glad, there is comfort in prayer.
The strongest have need of God's guidance
	To "overcome evil, with good;"
The weakest can win His approval
	Who said, "She hath done what she could."

		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE,
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]

[For the Exponent.]
	SOME OF THE BEST AUTHORS.

II
	In my last I made a couple of selections
from Mrs. Hemans, a poet of whom the Eng-
lish people are justly proud; nor do I find in
rambling among other poets of her sex (and
indeed, but few of the opposite sex) many who
desire to be ranked above her. She is the
sweetest, truest, purest expositor of the guile-
less human heart; her own we may say uncon-
scious, interpreter of a beautiful sinless life.
While her elegance of diction is unexcelled;
and the purity of her conceptions unrivaled.
She is not sentimental, but exhibits the strength
and beauty of inherent truth. She may be-
going out of fashion in these fast and practical
times, but so are nearly all the old poets; and
as true poetry is beauty, and beauty is truth,
so we will some day come back to our lost love
for "truth will prevail."
	We shall grow tired of our superficalities,
and find that true happiness, that bright gem
for which philosophers of all ages have delved,
lies not in fashion, but in the beautiful Nature
which God hath wrought. Nowhere is nature
more ideal and true, than in the pure depths
of a guileless heart, and nowhere shall we
find this beauty more perfectly interpreted
than in some of the poets of the olden school.
	Mrs. Francis S. Osgood occurs to our mind
as an American poet of genius, who was born
in Boston in 1812. Who has not been cap-
tivated by her sweet poem Labor ?

	"Labor is rest—from the sorrows that greet us,
	Rest from all petty vexations that meet us;
	Rest from the sin promptings that ever entreat us;
	Rest from world sirens that lure us to ill;
		Work—and pure slumbers shall wait on thy pillow.
		Work—thou shalt ride over Care's coming billows;
		Lie down wearied 'neath Woe's weeping willow,
	Work with a stout heart and resolute will!

	Labor is wealth; in the sea the pearl groweth,
	Rich the Queen's robe from the frail cacoon floweth.

[Column 2]

	From the fine acorn the sfrong forest bloweth,
		Temple and statue the marble blocks hide.

	Work for some good, be it ever so slowly;
	Cherish some flower, be it ever so lowly.		
	Labor! all labor is noble and holy,
		Let thy great deeds be thy prayer to thy God."

	Where can we find a poem more truly poeti- 
cal than that written by her entitled "To The
Spirit of Poetry." Let us cull a few of its
lines:

	Thou that dost veil the fairest flower with glory,
		Spirit of light, and lovliness and truth!
	Thou that did'st tell me a sweet fairy story.
		Of the dim future, in my wistful youth.

	Thou that came'st to me in my dreaming childhood,
		Shaping the changeful clouds to pagents rare;
	Peopling the smiling vale, and shaded wildwood
		With airy beings, faint, yet strangely fair;
	Telling me all the sea-born breeze was saying
		While it went whispering through the willing leaves.
	Bidding me listen to the light rain, playing
		Its pleasant tune about the household, eve's.

	Tell me not Time, whose wing my brow hath shaded,
		Has withered spring's sweet bloom within my heart;
	Ah no ! the rose of love is yet unfaded,
		Though hope and joy, its sister flowers, depart."

	But Mrs. Osgood has already gone "out of
style," although a comparatively recent
writer; though the writer of several volumes, I
have never yet seen one of her works adver-
tised. She died in 1850.
	Adelaide Procter, the daughter of a poet,
was herself a poet of renown. She was born
in London in 1825, and died in 1864. She did
not write voluminously, but many of her
pieces are true and pretty. Perhaps none is
better known now than "Rise! For the day is
Passing." "One by One" is very sweet and
well known.
	Her genius was not so great as many others,
but she was a true and noble womau; who de-
voted her whole life to doing good. Her
poetry is well written and displays the work-
ings of a benevolent high toned mind.
		BIRDIE CLYDE.


NEW ENGLAND GIRLS.

SOME INTERESTING STATISTICS GIVEN BY
	A LADY WHO HAS MADE A STUDY
			OF THE SUBJECT.

	It has often been asked what becomes of the
surplus of the female over the male popula-
tion of some of the states, especially of Mas-
sachusetts and Connecticut and perhaps some
of the other "down east" commonwealths.
An estimable lady by the name of Miss
Rebecca Jones, who herself belongs to that
number, and who was a school teacher for
nearly twenty years in a small New England
town, and who is now visiting friends in
Brooklyn, gave some interesting statistics
bearing upon this point to the writer of this
article.  She said:
	"I have kept a record of the girls who have
graduated from the high school of my native
village, where I have been a school teacher
since 1871, what they have done and what has
become of them."
	She gave the figures for the classes of the
years 1871 to 1876—from eighteen to eleven
years ago—and strange figures for any marry-
ing and giving in marriage community they
are. Continuing, she said:


"The average age of the female graduate from
a typical New England school is between six-
teen and seventeen years. Hence it will ap-
pear that the women of whom this list has
been made, ranging to-day between twenty-
nine and thirty-four years old, have done the
greater part of all the 'settling in life' that
they are likely to do. Out of a total of ninety-
nine graduates there were twenty-seven mar-
riages, eleven deaths and sixty-one are still
single. Strange as it might seem, the eleven
deaths were all caused by consumption. There
have been two cases of insanity, both of the
twenty-seven married group. The largest
number of children of any is three. Three of
the girls went to college after leaving the high
school, all of whom are married.
	"Of the unmarried sixty-one, twenty-one
follow a very usual feminine calling—that of
schoolma'm! One is at Hampton, Va., teach-
ing the Indians; the other twenty are in
country schools in or near their homes. Three
set type; one reads proof; one is head dress-
maker in a large establishment in New York
city; four are dressmakers on their own hook;
one is practicing medicine; three are music
teachers; fifteen are stitchers and buttonhole
makers in shoe shops, and the rest are home
bodies.
	"Just what has brought about such a pre-
ponderance of spinsterhood it is not altogether
easy to say. Some people have contended that
it did not exist, but statistics prove to the con-
trary. Such people have explained the great
surplus of women in New England on the sup-
position that most of them are widows, made
so by the hazardous occupation of the men
along the eastern coast. Widows there are in
plenty, but this sixty-one of my record cer-
tainly never married.
	"Probably most of them never had an oppor-
tunity to marry. There are few marriageable
young men at the present time to be found in
most of the small New England towns. The
serene quiet of this most lethargic rural sec-
tion of the country does not suit the active
spirit of young men of the day. They go
away before they are old enough to marry, and
the chances are that they don't come back
again.
	"If they do return they are impressed with
the lack of money in New England, outside of
the cities, by the length of time since the
houses have been painted, and the amount of
calculation required before he can find a place
where he can satisfactorily spend a dollar.
They do not stay long enough to admire the
hardy thrift that can wring a comfortable
support from the stony soil where a New
Yorker would starve, and 'the girls they left
behind them' cannot compare, so they seem to
think, for beauty of dress, fascinating coquetry
or small talk of society with the blandishments
of the city girls, who have insensibly become
their standard of admiration.
	"These things considered, it is fortunate for
the spinster that she is fast learning to think
it a natural and not altogether unpleasant
state of affairs to be what she is. They do not
look an unhappy lot, and New England is
learning to be tender of and appreciate them.
She does not call them 'old maids,' and the
fiction of their youth is kept up till they die.
One may hear of the 'Fisher girls,' the 'Smith
girls,' and so on for weeks before the truth
dawns that the 'girls' are well past the half cen-
tury milestone of life. They never married and
no one was ever cruel enough to mark out any
line beyond which they ceased to be young.
They are self-respecting and universally res-
pected.
	"There are New England towns great num-
bers, where the best educated and best bred
Yankee girl, of the best colonial families, can
go into the shoe shop and work there for years

[Column 2]

after she has ceased to be a girl, save by
courtesy, and still read the classics and move
in, perhaps lead, the most aristocratic society
of the town."—New York Mail and Express.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	What a comfort to be seated, where we are
 sure we shall not lose a word of the eloquent,
soul-cheering words that are uttered at these
meetings. As we look round over the vast as-
semblage, and think with compassion of the
company who will sit with their heads bent
forward, and their ears strained to catch the in-
spired words, as they fall from the lips of one
who perchance, they longed and prayed to see
again in those assemblies, I can't but exclaim
in my heart—O! for a Brigham Young to
reason again with mothers who will persist in
bringing babes to drown with their precious
voices, the words which many have traveled so
far to hear. Now I'm not a crusty old maid
who dreads the sight of a child, and perhaps
my love for them is one reason why I wish
more earnestly for some one to show mothers
the wrong they do the sweet babes,as well as the
thousands whom they deprive of the feast
which they came to enjoy.
	I have thought the tired look on the faces of
both mothers and babes, would surely discour-
age them in bringing them again; but alas!
meeting after meeting, year after year, mothers
will persist in bringing, even into the center of
this vast building, children, whom they must
know will prevent themselves, as well as others
from hearing; but I think I hear you say: "do
not mothers need the encouraging words which
they may chance to catch between the cries of
their babes?" I answer if they do not, I don't
know who does. I am a mother myself; and
if I can't change with some one and leave my
little ones in good hands I will get my confer-
ence from the papers or at smaller meetings.
	I don't suppose my words will take effect on
the multitude, that is why I wished so heartily
for a Brigham Young.
	All honor too to the feeble voices who are
still able to instruct hundreds in a smaller
building; but if their owners could see the
drooping of the features, and realize the sink-
ing of the souls of the multitude, as they strive
to sit quietly and watch their motions while
their words are inaudible, and then to see the
kindling of the features and imagine the light-
ness of spirit when they see one who has a
strong, powerful voice arise to speak; and who,
but for the noise of children, would make all in
this vast building hear, they would surely cut
their remarks short and leave the main part of
the preaching to those whose voices can be
heard. I have been looking around for those
ushers who invite people to put their news-
papers in their pockets, and wondering why it
is worse to occupy the hour or more, we have
to sit here to secure a good seat, in reading the
news, than it is to spend it in chatting, or
scribbling as I have been doing.
		AN OBSERVER.
	Tabernacle April 8th, 1889.


[Column 1]

WOMEN OF SAMOA.

	The women still love to dress in the natural
products of the native bush. Around their
throats they wind necklaces formed of a dry
scarlet berry, or shells sewed upon a strip of
cloth. Sometimes a fringe made from the rib
bones of a fish is attached to this necklace, and
often a spiral boar’s tusk forms a handsome
though barbaric ornament. Like their civil-
ized sisters the Samoan belles will endure any
amount of pain and discomfort in order to be in
the fashion, but, unlike them, they enjoy leap
year privileges all the time and exercise the
right of choice, for time or for eternity, with

[Column 2]

perfect freedom from a suspicion of unmaiden-
liness.
	The Samoan women, as a rule, are good
looking, but every village boasts its "beauty."
"Tampo" is the Samoan name given to the
village queen. Generally she is the ruling
chief's own daughter, or one adopted by him.
She is at all times a girl of high rank in the
place itself, or in that of her parentage. From
the first day of her installment to the day of
her departure, marriage, elopement, or dethrone-
ment for bad behavior (which in quite recent
times was effected with a club), she is virtually
the queen of the place. It is she who receives
strangers on arrival in her town, makes kava
for them, and personally sees to their comfort
and entertainment. Never, from one year's
end to another, is she permitted, to be out of
sight of her attendants. When abroad she is
invariably accompanied by as many of her
youthful companions as are available for the
service. They follow her in single file where-
ever she goes. She heads all processions, and
visits and takes the leading part in all "swas,"
or native dances.
	Her attire on gala days is of the gayest de-
scription that the town can afford; and every-
thing is ungrudgingly sacrificed that can add
to the glorification of her personal appearance.
It is she, on these occasions, who has mainly
to uphold the prestige of the town. It is only
when dressing for any ceremony that she ap-
pears to have no will of her own. On such
occasions, a long time before the commence-
ment of the ceremonial, the old women take
entire possession of her. On them devolves
the exercise of the mysteries of the Samoan
boudoir. Everything is done for the proud
damsel, who stands patiently suffering any
amount of coercion, one tithe of which she
would not permit for a second were it not part
of her duty as the beauty of the town. She
is first taken in hand by two or three of her
attendants, who briskly shampoo her all over
with sweet scented oil until her warm colored
skin shines like satin. Another will energetic-
ally brush her jet black locks, and afterward
plait or otherwise arrange them in the manner
that the combined wisdom of the old people,
assisted by the suggestions of twenty or thirty
of her youthful companions, may dictate.
She will then be ready to entertain "the stran-
ger" and prepare for him the kava.
	Above all things the native women excel in
the art of dancing and posturing. The most
popular dance among them is the "Siva,"
which is performed by four or five maidens to
the accompaniment of a tuneless song and
drumming on the tom-tom. It consists of
posturing and movements of the body and
hands, which are made in unison and in time
with the music. Some of the figures are ex-
ecuted while standing erect upon the feet, but
in most of them the dancers sit cross-legged
upon strips of matting spread upon the ground.
The postures are many and varied. Some-
times the right hand rests upon the neigh-
bor's left shoulder, and left hand upon the
dancer's knee, and sometimes this motion is
reversed. One position is with the right hand
spread upon the ground in front, and the fingers
of the left hand touching the biceps of the
dancer's right arm. Another is a more
thoughtful attitude. The right hand supports
the left elbow, while the left cheek rests upon
the index finger of the left hand. Of all the
graceful Samoan dancers none can compare
with the daughter of Patua, one of Metaafa's
most prominent chieftains. Her movements
are so exquisitely graceful and full of such
dreamlike motion that Europeans and natives
alike have combined in naming her "The
Dream."—Sacramento (Cal.) Report.


A girl's club for the study of domestic
economy has been formed in St. Louis.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN CANNOT GONERN.

And why shouldn't women govern ?
	History furnishes examples
Of illustrious female rulers—
	Any schoolboy'll give you samples,
There are Thomyris and Dido,
	Down Time's corridors so musty
With Semiramis a-marching,
	And their names are not yet dusty!

When was England's glory greater,
	When her record e'er more splendid
Than when "Good Queen Bess" was "boss" there,
	And before her gladly bended
Noble warriors, statesmen, poets—
	Names immortal in Westminster—
When earth's mightiest, William Shakespeare,
	Was	the subject of a spinster ?

		MARY NORTAN BRADFORD.


[Column 1]

IMPROMPTU LINES.
INSCRIBED TO
MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM S. CLARK.  
ON THE OCCASION OF THEIR GOLDEN WEDDING.  

Out on the brink of long years we pause,
	To echoing tread of distant day.
Thrilled with mysterious subtle cause,
	No human wisdom can e'er gainsay.

While o'er a chasm of five decades,
	Memory beckons with lamp aglow.
But who can fathom, or who can guage,
	Histories hidden in depths below?

Conflicts and victories, lost or won.
	Opportunities slighted, improved,
Burdens long carried, or work undone,
	Varying changes of ill or good.

Bright golden hours that swiftly flew,
	Time's precious jewels, recklessly strown.
Rejoicings, greetings, and sad adieus,
	Visions of beauty, and hopes forlorn!

We'll trust infinite wisdom alone,
	To read the record of years aright,
Thus far this merciful care is shown.
	Thro' morning noon-tide, to gray-haired night.

Now o'er time's chasm on FANCY'S wing,
	We roam again youth's fields of delight,
In bud and blossom of life's early spring,
	In rapturous love our pledges plight.

The years roll back like a misty dream,
	The pleasures of youth are ours once more. 
We muse again on the same sweet theme,
	Greet the same faces we loved of yore.

Blissful existence mem'ry doth hold,
	Firm health and courage, youth's strength and stay
She gives us back in measure full told,
	Voices, kind greetings, music's sweet lay.

As light breaks o'er the fallen snow,
	Cheering late travelers on their way,
So MEMORY, with her lamp aglow,
	Gilds over the pathway of decay.

And from this our "Golden Wedding" day,
	In humble faith we will bide our time,
Until called from earthly scenes away,
	Into life more perfect and sublime.

		L. M. HEWLINGS.
	Mach 5th, 1889.


THE POETS WORKSHOP.

	The idea of a poet suggests beauty and
loveliness. We read of the poets dream, the
poets reverie, and his imaginings, until we
create in our own minds an ideal picture of
the poet and his surroundings. We think of
him as seated with pencil in hand and in
elegant negligee, dashing off line after line of
exquisite sentiment, or historic lore in rhyme,
that will live long after he has passed away,
without any apparent effort, while he smiles
blandly and is at peace with all mankind.
There are persons who will ask one to write

[Column 2]

a poem with as much assurance as they would
ask a mechanic to plane a board, but in the
one case the carpenter would expect his wages,
whereas the poet is expected to give his services
gratis, and sometimes look upon it as a com-
pliment to be invited to write. These are the
people who have not the least idea what posi-
tive drudgery there is in being a writer.
The author, or the correspondent, is expected
to write when all others are out for pleasure;
there is no cessation or vacation for him, it is
an endless round, and if he positively refuses,
why then he is looked upon as unobliging.
He is invited here and there because he writes
those sort of affairs up, until he gets the im-
pression that he is never asked on his own
account, but simply because he has the faculty
of writing in a pleasant style. Probably the
poet is expected to do more work without re-
muneration than any other person. "O, the
rhymes will come," and "it is easy for him,"
and "I'm sure if I could write I wouldn't re-
fuse." These are only one or two of the
numerous comments made about poets.
	But suppose we take a look into one of these
dens of the poets, ordinary poets, not Tennyson
or Whittier, who have arrived at the dignity
of a mansion, whose star of fortune has risen
to the highest point in the horizon and is illum-
inated with a halo of light in which appear
clusters of stars less brilliant, that reflect the
light of the leading, guiding star; not one of
these, but some one just trying to earn a bare
subsistence by the use of the pen. Gifted he
may be, but without fortune to aid him, or in-
fluential patronage to give him prestige. We
are apt to think of the poet writing pastoral
pieces in the midst of sunny fields, where flocks
graze and sleek cattle feed among the clover
in the verdant meadows, while sparkling
streams of crystal waters bubble near, and
merry birds warble their sweetest notes in the
groves hard by. All this is very pretty, but
the poet sees it in imagination only, most likely
while he sits by his midnight lamp and pries
over musty old papers and books.
	Let us take a peep at a poet's work, in an
attic or a basement, one whose mind soars aloft
into the aerial realms of fancy, and who roams
at will through the elysian fields that gild his
day-dreams and makes him seem above the
"common herd." In one corner is a chest or
trunk half-open perhaps; you see part of a
wardrobe; rolls of manuscript and letters tied
with cords of every color, or scraps of faded
ribbon, a bureau with the drawers all half-
open and in disorder, two or three tables piled
with papers in the direst confusion imaginable,
but on one corner, a tea tray with soiled nap-
kins, cup and saucer, part of a loaf of bread,
a piece of cheese, and if we might be per-
mitted to tell it, a raw onion, and oftener still a
black bottle very significant in appearance.
Late iu the night when all the lights burn low,
the streets and lanes are dark, and the stars
keep watch in the midnight sky the poet pens
his richest, most harmonious lays; or the cor-
respondent, no longer tormented and inter-
rupted by the calls of friends anxious to make
his acquaintance, or some one desirous of a
notice from his able pen, begins the work so
long delayed, and the cocks are crowing, and
the sun tinging the eastern sky with the
splendor and radiance of the new born day,
ere he lays down his pen and finds rest in that
dream-land where his poetic fancy has been so
fondly straying. No wonder he is restless and
nervous, sensitive and irritable, his mind con-
stantly wrought to the highest pitch of extreme
sensibility.
	Now we have taken a look at the man who
writes, let us for a moment look in upon a 
poet-woman; imagination almost invariably
pictures to the mind's eye what the woman is
who writes the kind of articles we love to
read, as we sit by the cosy fireside in the winter

[Column 3]

evenings, or repeat over and over in the pen-
sive, summer twilight. We think of her as
lovely in its proudest sense, gentle, amiable
and courteous to all, sweet-mannered, a lady
in every respect, always becomingly dressed,
and neat in appearance, dainty, even; fond of
children and inclined to be devotional, almost
without fault at all, and blind to the failings
of others. Her home exquisite in all its ar-
rangements; her husband, if she be so fortunate
as to possess one, always proud and happy.
Now let us consider the poets we have met, or
the writers we have known. Among them are
some pretty and sweet, perhaps a trifle inclined
to jealousy, and not very aimable in their own
homes.  How can they be, they are not think-
ing of what to eat, or how to dress, or alas!
of the husband's wordrobe; and often when
they try to darn his socks they are flitting in
imagination among the soft, white, fleecy clouds,
and yet they are only commonplace to look at,
sometimes ugly in face and feature, but then
we only see the outward, the beauty is within,
and only makes itself manifest by soul-stirring
sentences, so delightfully arranged, that al-
though written in a garret, an attic, a dirty
kitchen, or a dingy basement, they light up a
thousand homes, and make gladness in human
hearts enough to compensate for lack of beauty
in form, or feature.
	Few lady writers have been beautiful, even
in youth, many passingly so, but to excel in
loveliness only a very few; of those who have
lived recently we can think of some who were
noted for their excessive plainness. The story
goes that a lady who was much given to scrib-
bling and whose powers were the admiration of
all the country round, and whose husband
withal was very proud of her, was one day
stoutly reproved by him for neglecting the
little ones, who were very noisy and trouble-
some. While baby, not yet a year old, lay in
the cradle crying for mamma, one boy had spilt
the ink, slapped his sister, and another had
broken the window, while the mother sat
writing on and on, as if unconscious of all
surroundings; at last the irate parent and hus-
band appeared upon the scene, and in dicta-
torial terms protested, tossing up her papers
and exciting her angry passions; finally, wo-
man-like, she began to cry, and refused to be
comforted, but amid her sobs, she managed to
make him understand, she had just finished a
touching little poem on domestic felicity, or the
pleasures of home. Suffice it to say he was
convinced against his will, that she appreciated
her home when he perused the poem, and never
afterwards was known to rebel, for she won
him over to her way of thinking, and all be-
cause she was a genius. But joking aside, to
have the desire, the longing to write, the intense
fascination, to be able to skim through the
clouds of fancy and weave a golden web of fine
spun threads, of which each one is like a
jewel radiantly set, is something no one ever
can comprehend, save one of these same fanci-
ful, poetical scribblers, who live in a world of
their own creation, and only come down from
the towering heights of fancy, when they are
hungry, cold or wretched. Such is the poet's
workshop, not what it really is, but what it
seems to him.
		AUNT EM.


The Governor of Tennessee, on the 26th inst.,
signed a bill making women eligible to the
office of County Superintendent of Educa-
tion.
	Mas.  Zerelda G. Wallace says: "Mr.
Bellamy's new book, 'Looking Backward,' is
the greatest book of its kind of the century,
and its effect upon the solution of the wage
and labor question will, I believe, be as power-
ful for good as was 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' upon
the kindred question of human slavery."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 15, 1889.


[Column 1]

FIRST GENERAL CONFERENCE OF THE
RELIEF SOCIETY.

	(The first general conference of the Relief So-
ciety was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
Saturday evening April 6th, 1889)  Besides
about fifteen representatives of the various Stakes
the following ladies were upon the stand. Prest-
Zina D. H. Young; Counselors Jane S. Richards
and Bathsheba W. Smith; M. I. Horne, Sarah M.
Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, Romania B. Pratt,
and Presendia L. Kimball. (President Zina D. 
H. Young presiding;) congregation sang
"O, My Father Thou that dwellest," prayer
by Presinda L. Kimball; singing "Praise to the 
man who communed with Jehovah."
	Prest. Zina Young said: "My sisters, upon this
occasion I hope you will give me your faith and
prayers. As I look upon the sisters around me, I
realize we miss our beloved Sister Eliza, who on all
such occasions was with us. In the providence of
the Lord shewas taken from us. She mingles
with those above; we revere her memory. As this
is our first meeting of this kind I hope we can
unite our hearts as one that the Lord will bless us
in so coming together. May everything be agree-
able that takes place here this evening."
	Romania B. Pratt, the assistant secretary, then
read the totals of the general statistical reports,
and the names of the Stake presidents of the
Relief Society. On account of existing circum-
stances Prest. Zina Young had written what she
wished to say, and it having been approved by 
Prest. Woodruff, Mrs, Wells then read the paper.
PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
	The Relief Society, under whose auspices we
have met together here to-night, to receive in-
struction, and advice in our several duties, was
first organized nearly half a century ago, by the
Prophet Joseph Smith; after the pattern of the
Holy Priesthood, and under its direction, to dis-
pense temporal blessings to the poor and needy:
and to give encouragement to the weak, and re-
strain the erring ones, and for the better develop-
ment, and exercise of woman's sympathies, and
charities, that she might have opportunity to at-
tain spiritual strength, and power for the accom-
plishment of greater good in the work of the re-
demption of the human family.
	We should be diligent in all the duties of life,
as mothers and wives, and as members ot the
Church, remembering to attend the meetings of
the Saints, including our Fast-day meetings, and
pay willing offerings to the poor, and our dona-
tions to the Temple; and with whatever belongs,
especially to the mothers, observe the law of
Tithing that the blessing promised may follow,
and that the little children may be taught this
important principle by example and educated in the
path of duty, which is the path of safety. Teach

[Second 2]

them to keep the "Word of Wisdom," and to be
temperate in all things; avoiding all evil habits
and pernicious practises, that they may have
strong bodies, and be entitled to the promise that
follows obedience to this commandment.
	Let us be careful to speak with wisdom before
our little ones, avoiding fault-finding, and slang
phrases, and cultivate the higher attributes of
our nature, that will tend to elevate, refine and
purify the heart, and make the home the centre of
attraction, where the spirit of love, peace and
unity will dwell, and that sweet charity that
thinketh no evil will ever abide; that we might
always be possessed of that heavenly principle
embodied in the song "Nay speak no ill."
	We should take the utmost pains to teach the
children of Zion to be honest, virtuous, upright
and punctual in all their duties; also to be indus-
trious and keep the Sabbath day holy; not to be
rigid or too severe, but as far as possible make all
duties pleasurable. Mothers should never speak
a word detrimental to the father's best interest
before the children, for they are close observers.
Sow good seeds in their young and tender minds,
and always prefer principle to policy, thus you will
lay up treasures in heaven.
	Our sisters who have been called to preside in
a Stake capacity, over several branches of the
Relief Society, should plead for wisdom from
above to direct their efforts, that the greatest
possible good may be accomplished. They
should visit each branch society in the Stake at
least once a year, and oftener if circumstances
will permit. Where sisters can do so, it would be
desirable and we think profitable, to visit each
other's organizations and become acquainted; it
will tend to union and harmony, promote confi-
dence, and strengthen the chords that bind us to-
gether, for there is more difference in our manner
of speech, than in the motives of our hearts.
	If the President of the society cannot be pre-
sent to preside, it is her duty to see that one of
her counselors attends to take charge of the meet-
ing, for the success of an organization depends
very much upon the efficiency and promptitude of
its officers. When a vote is required one of the
Counselors should make the motion, and after it
has received a second, the President shonld pre-
sent the motion, and call for the vote. President
Joseph Smith's instructions to the Relief Society
were, that the meetings should be conducted in a
parliamentary manner.
	President Young, in great wisdom we believe,
established the custom of holding quarterly con-
ferences, for the more perfect unity of interest in
the Relief Society, and President Woodruff ad-
vises us to continue in this respect as we have
been doing in the past. We should also keep
correct minutes of our meetings, that we may 
have a complete record, and then with very little
trouble exact reports can be made to the General
Conference.
	I trust the sisters will not neglect or grow
weary in the duty required of them in storing
up wheat. If it needs changing to preserve it,
the Presidency advise, in the case of loaning it,
the giving of written security, by the Bishop,
for the full amount, and something added to
allow for shrinkage, that the loan may be a safe
business transaction, and that all interested may
be satisfied.
	When Relief Society Conferences are to be
held, the Presidency of the Stake and the Bishops
should be informed of the time, and invited to
attend the meetings, that harmony and union
may exist, and strength and encouragement be
given to the diligent sisters, and that others see-
ing their good works, might be induced to come
to meeting, and enjoy the same good spirit and
feeling, that pervades the hearts of those who
meet often one with another, to be instructed in
their duties, and to gain spiritual strength and
wisdom for the various ylcissitudies of life.

[Column 3]

	It is the privilege of the sisters, who are faith-
ful in the discharge of their duties, and have re-
ceived their endowments and blessings in the house
of the Lord, to administer to their sisters, and
to the little ones, in times of sickness, in meek-
ness and humility, ever being careful to ask in
the name of Jesus, and to give God the glory.
	Do not find fault with the Providences of God,
it will not better our condition and only make
our burdens heavier to bear; but rather be
patient through all the trials of life, and speak
not against the Lord's anointed.
	It is our duty to be self-sustaining, and to foster
and encourage home industries, and home manu-
factures, and patronize those institutions that have
been established for the best interests of Zion;—
the co-operative stores; and be careful not to use
the means we have been blessed with, to build up
those, who are seeking to destroy and overthrow
the work of God, and to plant discord, strife and
dissension in our midst.
	The silk culture is one of the branches of home
industry, that demands our earnest attention. I
have never yet doubted, but, that it would event-
ually become a fruitful source of revenue to this
country. In the first sermon that I heard Brigham
Young preach in this valley, he remarked "there
is silk in these elements," and I have heard a
number of silk weavers say, "Utah silk was the
best fibred silk, they had ever seen." Sisters do
not be discouraged in any of the duties we have
undertaken to perform; I am aware we have many
responsibilities resting upon us, and also realize,
that we all have great need to be diligent and
prayerful. The Deseret Hospital is one of the insti-
tutions that needs to be sustained, in order that we
may have a place where the sick and the afflicted
among our people, may go when it is necessary,
and receive the medical and surgical care, nursing
and attention suited to their condition; and where
they can have the Elders of the Church to ad-
minister in the sacred ordinances of the holy
priesthood. We should not forget, or neglect our
duty to this charitable institution; keep up your
monthly donations for the Society, and continue
to be members of the Association, and remember
"he that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord
and He will repay."
	We should use our influence, too for the estab-
lishment and maintenance of educational institu-
tions, in which our children and young people,
may be taught the true principles of the everlast-
ing Gospel; and discourage any tendency to out-
side influences, calculated to lead them into doubt
or unbelief. In all things possible, let us en-
deavor to cultivate our home talent and stimulate
our sisters to read, and to write, that they may be
intelligent wives and mothers; read good books,
especially the Bible, Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants. The EXPONENT, is at
present, the only paper we have where the voice
of woman is sent forth especially, to instruct us in
our duties, and encourage the brave and deter-
mined ones to persevere in the midst of difficulties,
and also to give expression to the views and
opinions of the women of Zion on subjects of vital
importance. And we recommend that the sisters
subscribe for it, and read it, that they may be
posted upon the condition, growth and progress of
the various organizations of the women in Zion,
and elsewhere; and become familiar with the
efforts being put forth, for the uplifting, and
further advancement of all womankind; and of
the changes made from ttme to time in the direc-
tion of progress.
	Sisters, let us be as one grand phalanx and
stand for the right; let us be humble and firm,
honor truth, and be valiant in sustaining it, not
presuming, but trust-worthy in all things. Have
we not shouldered the cross of the world's scorn,
and braved its anathema with more valor, than
the warrior the cannon's fury? Death with him,
and then all is over, but we endure to live


[Column 1]

﻿eternally. Purity, love and integrity, let these
virtues live in our hearts; then the sunshine of a
loving Father's smile will be ours. Do not doubt
the goodness of God or the truth of the work in
which we are engaged; but learn obedience, it is
better than sacrifice; follow our file leaders and
fear not.
	May we do a work acceptable to our Heavenly
Father, and that will meet the approbation of our
brethren, who are called upon to endure for the
truth’s sake, what the Ancients did, when seeking
to establish righteous principles to benefit
humanity. May we as women of Zion, ever know
and honor our true position, and continue to grow
in grace, and abound in good works, until He
whose right it is to reign shall come.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards then said: "I trust
my beloved sisters, I may have an interest in your
faith and prayers for they avail much. I feel
many times that it is the greatest pleasure we
have—the privilege of praying—for no one can
rob us of this. The instructions from Sister Young
are such as we ought to adopt. I for one feel
like accepting them. We miss Sister Snow, and
although she encouraged us saying "Don't get
faint, go ahead," Sister Young now fills her place
and gives the same advice.
	I was thinking how befitting the words of
Sister Young in regard to the Hospital were. If
we do not have to go there, there are others with-
out homes coming a long distance, who find care
and attention in this place for the sick. The
greater willingness of the sisters, daily, betokens
an increase in our charity. The charity we want
is that which is manifested in kindness and for-
bearance towards one another. We frequently
do little things which try each other, and it is
then we should exercise our charity. Especially
should we be forgiving towards the young;
they have a long life before them, and if
in spending a few moments frequently with them
we probably can teach them to avoid mistakes we
have made, let us do so. Let us seek for the
spirit that characterized our Savior; in Him was
perfect kindness.
	I desire to say a word in regard to the EXPO-
NENT. In it, sisters, we can learn a great deal in
regard to our daily duties. It has been edited
with great patience by Sister Wells. Do we ac-
knowledge it as we ought ? I believe we have
been a little careless in this regard." The
speaker invoked the blessing of God upon the
congregation.
	President Zina Young stated she was anxious
to hear from those representatives who had come
a great distance.
	President Anna Ivins, president of Relief
Society of St. George Stake represented the or-
ganization of the same, stating that although the
country was hard, they possessed the necessaries
of life if not the luxuries. "The attendance in the
twenty four wards of the Stake is small in com-
parison with yours in this section. It takes a
month for me to visit the wards."
	Counselor Martha Hammond of San Juan Stake
stated that in attending conference in San Juan
they had to travel over a hundred miles, neverthe-
less the sisters were true and faithful in attending.
The speaker realized that if we were blessed as
we expected, the settlements would soon grow
closer, thus easing matters and enabling the First
Presidency of the R. S., to visit them.
	President Hinckely from Bannock Stake said they
had fifteen ward branches. "The attendance with
some is regular with others not so. We need very
much the visits of the sisters of the presidency.
The speaker expressed great joy in receiving such
good instructions as were imparted in the meeting.
	Emery Stake was represented by President
Annie U. Larsen who stated that she in company
with several others had recently visited the seven
branches in that Stake and found them in fairly
good order. They had grain on hand. There

[Column 2]

could not be found any destitute among their
portion of the church. In several instances the
Relief Society had assisted missionaries.
	Counselor B. W. Smith expressed great joy in
meeting with the sisters as they were assembled.
"When the Relief Society was first organized
as I well remember, there were but few, but those
few had a good spirit. I can hardly realize it to
have grown so much. We should set an example
before every one worthy to be followed, being
punctual, diligent and charitable. We should
cultivate the Spirit of the Lord and thus avoid be-
ing led astray."
	The General and Stake authorities of the
Relief Society were then presented to be sustained
by vote by Sister Sarah Kimball, the vote was
unanimous.
	The roll of stakes was called and responses
made as follows: Bannock, Bear Lake, Box
Elder, Davis, Emery, Juab, Kanab, Millard,
Oneida, Salt Lake, St. George, San Pete, Sum-
mit, Weber, Morgan, (presidents.) Beaver,
Parowan, Panguitch, San Juan, (counselors.)
	(Sister M. I. Home then spoke, saying she con-
sidered it a great privilege to meet together,where
by the blessing of God correct principles could
be advanced and we learn to become more per-
fect. She realized that Sister Eliza's mantle had
fallen on Sister Zina just as Elijah's desended
upon Elisha. Sister Eliza had been with us long,
and we felt her absence, and there was another
associated with us formerly whom we missed,
Mother Whitney, who had so often in our meet-
ings sung in the gift of tongues in the language
spoken in the Garden of Eden and blest us all
and lifted us for the time above the cares of the
world, and we cherish their memory in our hearts,
their loving words and wise counsel can never be
forgotten. The reward for our labors is not to
be obtained in this life but awaits us at the gates
of Heaven. The speaker bore her testimony to
the fact that, in the face of the seemingly most
insurmountable difficulties it was the duty of the
sisters to press on in their good and noble work.
These difficulties appear when our minds are
clouded with unstable thoughts, but if we but
think, we can see the munificence of God's bless-
ings on every hand. The Lord is our friend and
helper and in trusting in Him are we aided.
	The Kingdom of God is a kingdom of order.
Joseph Smith's instructions in regard to the con-
ducting of our meetings were, that parliamentary
rules should be observed. Always transact your
business first. Then bear your testimonies. The
Secretary should be very particular in taking
minutes, not necessarily long, but complete. The
Secretary and Treasurer just before a conference
should meet and compare notes, making their re-
ports perfect.
	President Young invoked the blessings of God
upon the congregation, after which, the meeting
adjourned for six months. Congregation sang on
page 107 "Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing."
Benediction pronounced by Sister Harriet Snow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The minutes of the Woman Suffrage Meeting
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, on Thurs-
day April 11th, came too late for this issue, but
will appear in our next.
	The General Conference of the Church held in
the Tabernacle in this City April 6th, 1889 was
probably the largest Conference ever held since
the organization of the Church. It was an event
of very great importance and will never be for-
gotten by those who were present especially the
meeting on Sunday afternoon when the various
quorums of the priesthood seated according to
their order, and all the members of the Church
voted for the reorganization of the First Presi-

[Column 2]

dency and to sustain  all other officers in their
several positions and callings. The First Presi-
dency as sustained by the Conference are Wilford
Woodruff President, George Q. Cannon, First
and Joseph F. Smith, Second Counselors.
	The Annual meeting of the 8th Ward Primary
Association was held March 19th in the meet-
ing house, Mrs. Jane Cowan presiding. Visitors
present were Mrs. Louie Felt President of the
Central Board of the Primary, Mrs. Lillie
Freeze her First Counselor, and Mrs. Ellen
C. Clawson and Lydia Ann Wells of the Stake
Board, also Mrs. E. B. Wells and Elizabeth
Howard. The house was nearly filled and the
exercises were of a very edifying character besides
being well rendered. A class of little ones re-
eited  "The Floral Alphabet," which was an interest-
ing feature of the occasion. The children all per-
formed their parts in a creditable manner. Re-
marks calculated to inspire faith and stimulate to
good works were made by Mrs. E. B. Fletcher and
Mrs. C. Palmer, and also by Bishop Sheets and
Elder John Needham. A tempting collation was
spread for all; the children had their picnic in an
adjoining room where they made merry to their
hearts content in feasting.
	Seven of Drs. Shipp students in obstetrics
graduated March 30th, and received their Di-
plomas from the examining committee, and they
were also blessed and set apart for their work as
practitioners among the people, at the Historian's
Office preparatory to leaving for their homes.
Their names and places of residence are as fol-
lows: Miss Emma Hillstead, S. L. City, Miss Mary
Sawyer, American Fork, Utah Co., Mrs. Parthenia
A. Holt, Hoytsville, Summit Co., Mrs. Christina
Peterson, Scipio, Millard Co., Mrs. Mary Sorenson, 
Teton Bingham. Co., Idaho Mrs. Louisa Gibbs,
Paradise, Cache Co., Mrs. Libbie Bybee, Hooper-
ville, Weber Co. There was an interesting pro-
gramme for the evening's entertainment in which
recitations were given, songs were sung, instru-
mental music on the piano, and speaking by
several of the brethren and sisters who were
present. Dr. Milford B. Shipp, President
Zina D. H. Young, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, Mrs. E.
B. Wells, President A. M. Cannon, Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze and others. Congratulations were ex-
pressed and good advice given to the fresh grad-
uates. Ice cream and other delicate refreshments
were served and the evening passed off pleasantly.
	The friends of Mr. and Mrs. George Alder of
this city offered their congratulations on the
twenty-fifth anniversary of their marriage on Mon
day evening April 8th, at their residence on South
Temple Street at which time the happy couple
celebrated their Silver wedding. It was also the
forty-fifth anniversary of the marriage of Mrs.
Alder's father and mother, who were present, and
received their share of the congratulations and
good wishes of the company of relatives and dear
friends, assembled to do honor on the happy
occasion. The bride looked charming and as
happy as though it was really the wedding day and
the sons and daughters were kept busy enter-
taining the guests. The parlors were brilliantly
lighted and handsomely decorated, and everything
betokened joy and festivity. Miss Margie Dwyer
rendered in her happy stlye some instumentalt
music on the piano, and Messrs. Alder, Barrat
and Dwyer, sang one of their favorite pieces.
Miss Dean Caine also favored the company with
one of her choice selections in song. Refresh-
ments in rich abundance, with ice cream and
wedding cake were tastefully served during the
evening and all went merry as a marriage bell.
The usual supply of wedding gifts from particular
friends were received, and there seemed nothing
wanting to add to the happiness of either host or
hostess or their sssembled guests. May their
future life be serene and happy, and their ex-
periences ever unite them still more closely to-
gether and their children rise up and call them
blessed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REFLECTIONS IN FASTDAY MEETING.

	My dear Sisters, especially those whose whole
souls are centered in the interests, and redemp-
tion of Zion; I am perfectly satisfied in my
mind that there are many at the present time, that
are like minded unto myself, whose burden of
their prayer is the redemption of Zion, it seems to
be the theme and topic of our Tabernacle and
Ward meetings, and it is a generally acknowledged
belief, that, that event is not far distant. But it is
very possible that even among the saints, there
may be some to whom this prayer for Zion's re-
demption may become a matter of habit, like unto
the professing Christians of to-day; praying daily
for God's Kingdom to come, without ever once
seriously asking themselves the question, do I un-
derstand what I am asking for, and am I doing my
part towards bringing it about? Well if this is the
situation that we many of us are found in to-day,
it is high time that we were aroused out of our slum-
ber, lest that day should come upon us, as has been
foretold, like a thief in the night; therefore with
a view to this end, and an eye single to the glory
of God, (though I feel myself one of the least in
His Kingdom.) I feel led as a matter of duty to
write the reflections of my mind on this great and
important subject, namely the redemption of
Zion.
	It has for some time been the most attracting
sound that met my ear, so when the opening
prayer was offered at the fastday meeting, March
7th, 1889, in which a petition was offered, for the
time to be hastened when Zion should become a
power in the midst of the earth, it caused many re-
flections to arise in my mind. It seemed to
cleave unto my mind with such force that I could
not shake it off, and the more I looked into it, the
more real it seemed to be, that small as the chosen
few of the members of God's Kingdom set up in
these last days appear to be, compared to the
nations and kingdoms of the whole earth, it is
nevertheless true, that Zion will yet become a
power in the midst of the earth; hence, the
question arose in my mind, but how long will it
take to bring that about under present existing
circumstances? and especially with the spirit of
Babylon increasing so fast in our midst; for it
seems as if instead of Zion purifying herself for
that glorious time, the saints are daily manifest-
ing an increased desire for the things of the world
and the pleasures and vanities thereof, instead of
seeking after the things of the Kingdom of God.
	Such were the reflections of my mind, as
testimony upon testimony was added, more or
less bearing on that theme or subject, until a
brother arose and spoke in tongues, and I felt at
the commencement of his testimony, that there
was a mighty power of the spirit of God in the
place, which seized my whole frame, and just as
quick as lightning, the veil was withdrawn from
my eyes, and as the tongue was acknowledged
though uninterpreted, to be on the redemption of
Zion, I saw it right close at hand just as soon as
the saints would wake up to a sense of their situ-
ation, as in the light and sight of God, and turn
round and forsake the ways of the world, and do
His will and keep His laws and commandments
with all their heart; just so sure was he waiting
ready to stretch forth his mighty arm to deliver
them from their enemies; and also with attending
the Relief Society meeting in the afternoon, and
having the privilege of listening to the wise
counsel and instructions of Sister Higbee from
Salt Lake City, who so plainly and powerfully laid
before us, the follies and abominable ways that the
daughters of Zion had fallen into, which in the
sight of God, have been a great burden on my
mind ever since I came to the land of Zion.
	This caused me to reflect, and to say to myself,
would to God that I could do anything toward
bringing about a better state of things? and the
answer to the question came to me in this manner,

[Column 2]

I will ask all my sisters that are earnestly plead-
ing for and waiting for the redemption of Zion, to
oin with me in pleading with God our Eternal
Father that he may so inspire the hearts of His
servants, that have the leadership of His Church
and Kingdom, with such a measure of His spirit
that they may be led to see and realize the pride
and vanity that exists in His Church, in the light
that He sees it, and that they may be led to do as
is spoken of in the word of God, to one of the
Ancient Prophets, namely, "to lift up their
voices, and cry aloud and spare not, and show
Israel or Zion her transgressions, and His people
their sins. And I feel as sure as I live, that just
as soon as we as a people are led to see ourselves
in the light of truth and the spirit of God enlight-
ening us, and turn round and do His will, and
walk in His ways, will that be fulfilled, spoken of
in 102 Psalm and 13 verse, namely, "Thon shalt
arise and have mercy upon Zion, for the time to
favor her, yea, the set time is come." So as I
had suffered myself to be held back from testify-
ing of the light that was given unto me, I felt
prompted to write the feelings of my mind, in
hopes that it may do some good towards the up-
building and rolling forth of the work of God;
realizing that quenching the workings of His
spirit, gives Satan more power over us for the
future. I would not have ventured to dare to take
this upon me, feeling my littleness and insignifi-
cance in the Kingdom of God, but was encour-
aged by remembering the instance found in the
1st chapter of St. John, where Andrew after hav-
ing found the Saviour, and believing that he was
indeed the Christ, was anxious after his brother
Simon Peter, and it states, "he sought him and
brought him to Jesus," and in that act he took one
that became the most mighty and valiant in His
service. So in hopes that in like manner, though
this come out of weakness, it may be received by
some of the same spirit and power as the Apostle
Peter, that it may be carried forth to the honor
and glory of God; and that we my dear sisters,
may be led to cease not our supplications unto
God our Eternal Father, and keep not silence be-
fore Him, until He makes Zion a praise and a
power in the midst of the earth.
	Your humble sister in the cause of truth,
		M. A. C.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Y. L. M.
I. A., was held in the Provo meeting house, at
2 and 7 p.m., with President Zina Lyons pre-
siding. The afternoon was occupied in reading
the semi-annual report of the associations, and
hearing reports from the various wards show-
ing the majority in a flourishing condition.
	Territoral President Elmira S. Taylor felt
proud of the progress made, and interest
manifested in the association, and instructed
the presidents in regard to the programs.
	Sister Annie K. Smoot, spoke of her early
experience in the Church, and the circum-
stances that caused her to join; also of the evil
resulting from bad associations.
	In the evening, after a few opening remarks
by Counselor Grace Smith, Stake president,
Zina Lyons instructed the congregation in re-
gard to sorrounding circumstances; advising
them to be examplary in all their actious.
Thought they could find more pleasure in the
performance of their religout duties than any
other way.
	Bishop H. H. Cluff thought the young ladies
were of Holy lineage and needed to watch and
pray in order to be kept in the right path that
they might gain the glory promised to the
faithful, which would cause them to sacrifice
earthly things which could not be understood
in any other way, and knew of no pleasure as

[Column 2]

satisfactory as that derived through its work-
ings.
	Brother D. John spoke of the noble mission
of woman, and the future happiness in store
for the faithful daughters of Zion; and con-
sequences resulting from evil associations,
	Presidhnt E. S. Taylor advised all to have
pure thoughts, and desiers to lead lives of
honor. Many had come among us for what
they call a refining purpose, instituting schools
of learning in our midst, and proving they
are not followers of the meek and lowly Jesus.
They are as restless as the tides of the ocean
because of the pleasure they are seeking which
is not as lasting and enjoyable as that experi-
enced through our most holy religion. Desired
the young ladies to verse themselves on the
scriptures in order to have a weapon that they
might defend themselves, God being their
helper. Counseled them in regard to choosing
a companion; not allowing themselves to give
their affections until they know of God what
was right; and to select one that would lead
them onward and upward in God’s kingdom.
Closed by bearing a firm testimony to the
truth of the work.
	An unusual portion of the Holy Spirit was
enjoyed during our conference, and the interest
ef the young people is increasing in the work
of Improvement.
		ZINA LYONS, President.
		EVLYN BILLINGS, Secretary.

UINTAH STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion, convened in the Ashly
Ward meetinghouse, March 3, 1889, President
Sarah Pope presiding. Siuging "Come all ye
Saints that dwell on earth," prayer by Brother
J. Hatch. Singing "Praise ye the Lord."
Minutes of previous conference were read and
approved. The reports of the different Socie-
ties were then read.
	President Sarah Pope made a few opening
remarks; asked an interest in the faith and
prayers of those present. Spoke of their visit
through the Stake; said there were some tried
with riches and some with poverty; spoke of
the need of charity, for there are those among
us that cannot help themselves; said if we done
the best we could, we would not be perfect;
we should try and overcome evil as much as
possible. Prayed the Lord to bless us through
this conference.
	Sister A. K. Bartlette asked an interest in
the faith and prayers of the people; bore a
faithful testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
Spoke on the resurrection of our Savior and
the mission placed on woman to perform.
Thought all should be very careful how they
partake of the sacred emblem of the Lord's
Supper; gave the sisters some good instructions
to which all listened with intense interest.
	Brother J. Hatch made a few very appro-
priate remarks which were listened to very
attentively.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.tn. Singing
"Let those who would be Saints indeed,"
benediction by Brother I. J. Clark.
	Afternoon session. Singing "Afflicted Saints
to Christ draw near," prayer by S. R. Bennion.
Singing "Mortals awake with angels join."
Sacrament was administered by the Ashley
Ward Priesthood.
	Brother B. S. Collett then arose to address
the congregation; desired an interest in the
faith and prayers of the Saints. "We have
met to-day in the capacity of a Relief Society
conference. We find that after Joseph Smith
had organized the Church, he felt as though
there were something ladking, and therefore
organized the Relief Society." Gave the
sisters of the different wards some good in
structions in regard to their duties. He had
ever taken an interest in the young and rising
generation, and gave some good counsel to


[Column 1]

the same. He had received a great testimony
of the truth of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and gave much more
advice, occupying a great portion of the
afternoon.
	President Bennion made a few closing re-
marks, which were very interesting to all.
Conference adjourned until the second Monday
in September. Singing. Benediction by
President Sarah Pope.
		ADDIE LONGHURST, Secretary.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
     The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake convened in the
tabernacle on March 12th, at 10 o'clock a. m.
	President Harriet Snow presiding: after the
opening exercises President Harriet Snow said:
"Sister Zina Young sent her love to all, but
could not be present with us, Sister Richards
is expected with the first train." Aunt Zina
"prayed that we may have a Pentecost. If we
exercise faith for the speakers, that the Lord
may speak to us through them, we may be en-
couraged and fed."
	Statistical and financial reports from 15
different branches were read by Secretary Mary
E. Snow. Treasurer's report read by Sister
Fannie Graehl.
	Sister Richards and Sister Brown from
Ogden arrived.
	President Hubbard from Willard: "I re-
joice in the society of the saints, in the prin-
ciples of the holy gospel, we know our depend-
ence on the Lord, let us be true to each other,
true to our religion and God."
	President Perry from Three Mile Creek:
"we live in a great day, if there is anything we
love more than our Father in heaven, it be-
comes our God; and He has said: "Thou
shalt have no other God." Let us strive to set
a good example and be willing to make sacri-
fices for our religion's sake."
	President Jane Richards: "I love to meet
with my sisters, I regret I did not hear your re-
ports. This is a great work, we learn many
things, although they may seem small, we need
the spirit of God, we are nothing without it.
I think the one who speaks with the most
humility, charity and love is the best speaker.
How blest and favored we are of the Lord; our
enemies are in the dark; many will yet see
their error, that time will come when we will
feel thankful that we passed patiently through
persecution. I have been 49 years in this
church but I never saw the time that I dared
doubt the principles of the Gospel." Spoke of
the death of her first child, how President
Brigham Young taught her to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord and give up her child in
faith.
	President Mary Jansen, Third Ward: "trials
are blessing in disguise we can better compre-
hend it after, than at the time we pass through
them.  I rejoice when I see old sisters still
faithful and not tired."
	Adjourned till 2 o'clock. Singing: "How
will the saints rejoice to tell," benediction by
Counselor Olivia Widerborg.
	Afternoon session. Singing: "May we know
the joyful sound," prayer by Counselor
Susannah T. Booth. Singing: "We are not
ashamed to own our God," roll called. Con-
densed report read by the secretary.
	Emilia D. Madsen felt that even in our
sympathies and in doing good, we can improve,
we must be thoughtful and considerate. I
consider the teachers position the most delicate,
but in blessing others, they themselves are
blest.
	Susannah Facer: "It is necessary for us to
be intelligent and filled with light, there are
many things we need to learn and become
wiser."
	Sister Hattie Brown: "I feel to be one with

[Column 2]

my sisters, I have no doubt in this work, never
had. It is a grand blessing to be organized as
a Relief Society. We all have to be tried but
not always in the same manner, therefore we
must have charity, we cannot live too faithful
too prayerful, the Lord is merciful, He knows
the desire of our hearts, I wish to be honest in
all my acts."
	Sister Harding: "I know this is the work
of the Lord, we should live so we might merit
the approbation of the Lord."
	President Harriet Snow: "The more spiritual
food we get, the more capable we are of receiv-
ing it. We never should allow ourselves to
harbor feelings against any one. Let us live
humble and prayerful, that we may rejoice in
the principles of our religion."
	President Jane Richards: Spoke of the
Hospital, it is hard to get along, they need
means and encouragement, told some of the
reasons why it is not in a flourishing condi-
tion. Explained why it is necessary for us to
organize the Suffrage Association. "How little
we know, I like to get that spiritual light, that
I may always be prompted correctly."
	Counselor Adolph Madsen: "I hope the
members do not expect too much of the officers
but exercise charity, remember they are called,
they have not sought an office themselves, if I
am a bishop, should I feel I am a little better
than the members? it would be wrong, I
should feel I am a servant to my brothers and
sisters, I presume you feel the same in your
offices, judging from the remarks I have heard.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing: "Oh, my Father thou that dwellest."
Benediction by Bishop Hansen.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Secretary.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Y. L. M. I. A. held in the Assembly Hall
March 15th, 1889, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze pre-
siding. Opened by singing "Who are these
arrayed in white," prayer by Mrs. E. Howard,
singing "When shall we meet Thee." Minutes
of morning session of previous conference read
and approved. Written reports were read from
the 3-4-6-7-8-10-11-14-15-17 wards.
	Mrs. Freeze was pleased with the reports,
especially the increase of testimonies, would
like to have more manuscript papers edited and
as far as possible have them original. "We all
have come to gain a blessing, we shall not be
left without light, the Holy Ghost is the
greatest instructor, we are in possession of this,
we have had this gift sealed upon us and by
united faith we will receive blessings. The
foundation is to know this work is true, but it
is necessary for all to work."
	President Zina D. H. Young: "Obedience is
better than sacrifice" "and I arise this morning
to exercise the Holy Ghost and receive the
blessings following this act. The spirit of our
Heavenly Father is intelligence, we should be
in possession of it at all times, use it in all our
home duties.
	"It is to-day with us not yesterday nor to-
morrow, but to do our duty to-day. By over-
coming our selfishness we will have pleasant
feelings toward each other." Gave some ex-
cellent instruction on the nature of our con-
versation with each other, how our influence is
felt in future generations even beyond the veil.
"There is a power in closing our eyes during
prayer, also the response at the close should be
general. Prayed we might be humble and
faithful."
	Reports were read from the 19, Farmers, Mill
Creek, South Cottonwood, South Jordan, Herri-
man, Taylorsville, Draper wards.
	Mrs. Howard: asked all with faithful
hearts to ask of our Heavenly Father His
spirit, "by united prayer we will receive the
blessing. Many are looking for something new.
We do not yet live as we should that which

[Column 3]

we have received." Urged the practice of
punctuality. "It is the practical part of our
religion I desire to speak of. Good behavior in
houses of worship should be observed, when
a speaker arises to speak, think we are being
instructed by the spirit of the Lord, cease
whispering, remain in your seats till services
are closed. Politeness is another thing we
should practice, the pleasure it brings in re-
ceiving polite attention from each other." Had
thought of having printed the constitution of
the United States and Declaration of Inde-
pendence and placed where our young ladies
could study them, and understand our political
situation, be prepared to be wives that can
stand side by side with our husbands at all
times. Learn to be grateful for the blessings
you are in possession of, read good books, study
that which will be for your good, overcome
frivolity and vanity." Prayed that the spirit
of the Lord would be with us.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp: "if we come for com-
fort and blessings, and are united in our faith
and prayers, the spirit will inspire such things
to be said as are for our good. Our souls
need food, and feel strengthened after attend-
ing these meetings." Testified of the manifesti-
tations in the Manti Temple. "Our greatest
sorrow should be if we have grieved the spirit
of the Lord. Live so we can listen to the still
small voice and follow its whisperings." Spoke of
the duties of a wife and preparing for the same,
prayed our influence might be felt for good.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougal desired what she said
to be influenced by the spirit of the Lord.
Young ladies should do their work themselves
and serve the Lord in their youth. Spoke of
the influence we wield at home and in our as-
sociations with each other. "Do not devote so
much time to novel reading it destroys the
memory and is ruinous. The object of our as-
sociations is to teach us the principles of our
religion. Learn to be polite and polished."
Prayed we might realize our positions as
daughters of Zion.
	Adjourned till 2 o'clock; singing "Consider
the lilies. Benediction by Mary P. Young.
     Afternoon session. Opened by singing.
Prayer by Dr. R. B. Pratt, singing. Roll
called showing representatives from 20 associa-
tions. Minutes of afternoon session of previous
conference read and accepted.
	President Freeze said: "she desired the as-
sistance of Sisters Jane Freeze and Della
Eardley to aid in the work of visiting Associa-
tions. They were unanimously accepted by
the conference.
	Counselor Mary P. Young said: "It does my
heart good to see the members present; I be-
lieve there is a general waking up of the young
in all their meetings, which is very encourag-
ing. If we do not improve it is because we
turn a heedless ear to the many good teach-
ings we receive. We have good books and
good counsel with us continually and the time
will come when every thing we learn will serve
us." She closed by bearing a strong testimony,
of her knowledge that this is the true Church
of Christ.
	Mrs. Maria Holt said she desired to live
to see the Latter-day Saints grow and increase;
to see them always strive to do good. Said she
could see with the eye of faith that these young
ladies would be more mighty than their mothers
had been; and they should cultivate faith for
much is expected of them. The glorious spirit
of God makes us at all times happy. Con-
cluded her remarks by saying: "My desire is
that we may watch our footsteps well and pre-
pare our minds for the greater things that are
to come. We must be humble, faithful and
true unto the cause of truth, I pray God to
bless us that the earth may be better for our
living."
	Mrs. Jane Freeze desired the mother
to visit the associations and see wha


their daughters were doing; "they will become
more interested for such visits; teach them to
respond when called upon to take part in the
programme, and in this way they will become
more edified."
	Miss Edith Samson thought everything was
made easier by the Spirit of God: "and if the
young will only listen to the promptings of
God's spriit they will not go astray."
	Mrs. Clara S. Clarlyle said that through her
inability to attend meetings her mind had be-
come spiritually dwarfed: "we should not give
up to enjoyment at the expense of our meet-
ings but should strive to have the spirit of the
Holy Ghost with us at all times for which
spirit we should pray and live for always."
	Dr. R. B. Pratt said she was pleased to
bear her testimony to the truth of the Gospel:
"every young lady can say she believes this to
be the work of God, on a basis that is firm and
reasonable and by such a course a true knowl-
edge will come to her, and by such a course
the spirit of God does not become grieved;
we cannot understand the things of God ex-
cept by His spirit.
	Bishop Thorn said he remembered when he
was not favorably impressed with the idea of
women preaching but his mind had changed
and felt the work they had done was import-
ant. Bore testimony to the truth of the re-
marks he heard in the meeting. Prayed that
the blessings of God would forward the cause
of the work we are engaged in: "many great
events are transpiring and greater things are
yet to come. I can comprehend the work as
it is now rolling on. We will have many trials
but all will yet be well."
	Brother W. B. Dougal had observed the
good results of this work in the past. He
observed a great dearth of testimony bearing
on the part of the young and knew that the
only sure foundation was to obtain a testimony
for ourselves, which enlightens the mind for
the teachings of the servants of God: "These
teachings without the true spirit are sometimes
considered tyrannical by the young. A knowl-
edge of the truth would also reduce in number
the union of our young people with disbe-
lievers and should receive much consideration."
	President A. M. Cannon said the remarks
he had heard in this meeting were good and
would aid our cause. "That Mormon creed
'mind your own business' speaks volumes and
should receive consideration." He referred to
the subject of marriage saying "man could not
exist in a perfect state alone for man without
the woman is not in the Lord." Urged upon
the congregation the necessity of obtaining a
testimony, for nothing could dwarf a man's
efforts so effectually as an infidel wife. "God
has called us to be subject to His divine law, if
we do so we will be rewarded.  So may God
glorify and make us immortal if we do His
holy will."
	President Cannon, Bishop Thorn, and
Brothers Dougal and Curtis then set apart
Sisters Mary P. Young as first counselor to
Mary A. Freeze president of these organiza-
tions of this Stake: Sisters Maggie C. Shipp,
Edith Samson, Maria Holt, Clara S. Carlyle
and Jane Freeze as assistants; Elizabeth Smith
Secretary and Romania B. Pratt as Treasurer.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
singing, "Guide us O Thou great Jehovah."
Prayer by President A. M. Cannon.
		E. SMITH, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE UNION.
	The corresponding secretary of the Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association has taken
a vote of the members of the Association, by
mail, on the new constitution proposed for the
National American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion, and the vote is favorable, by a large
majority. This practically concludes the


Union. The next meeting will be held at
Washington under the name of the National-
American W. S. A., and the call for it will be
signed by the general officers of both associa- 
tions. Until the next meeting, the present
officers of both associations will hold over.
	Woman’s Journal.	H. B. B.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.
	On the 28th day of March, the sisters of
Pleasant Green Relief Society wended their
way with baskets filled with the bounties of
earth,to spend a few sociable hours with one of
their co-laborers, Sister Nancy Deardon, Second
Counselor in the Society, who has been afflicted
for the last year and a half so that she could
not leave her home; and our good sisters think-
ing their presence would cheer and buoy her
up all came out enmasse for a few hours; and all
cast in their mite and presented her with a
handsome easy chair. Elder Samuel G.
Spencer composed a few verses for her in be-
half of the sisters, underneath them were en-
rolled the names of the members of the Society
these were put in a handsome frame and were
read during the entertainment. The sisters
also gave her a small sum of money. We had
a pleasant time and all felt well repaid and we
left Sister Nancy feeling that she was not en-
tirely forgotten.
			ALVIRA L. HIRST, President,
			FANNY H. JENKINS, Secretary.


OBITUARIES.
	It is with feelings of sadness we announce the death of
Sister Sarah Holmes, who passed peacefully from mortality
at her residence in St.Charles Idaho, February 26th, 1889.
	She had been connected with the Church for many years,
and was familiar with the trying scenes which so many of
the Saints have endured. She has for a number of years
resided in St. Charles, and since 1883 has filled the position
of Counselor to the President of the Primary Associations
of Bear Lake Stake, which she has done nobly and well.
	Notwithstanding she was advanced in years she was
never known to shirk any duty relative to her calling.
She was a peaceful unoffending woman, a faithful Saint,
and her precepts and examples will long be remembered.

Upright and honorable, chaste and refined,
Frugal and wise, thou wert good to mankind.
Brave thou hast been in defence of the right,
Seeking continually wisdom and light.
Friend of the motherless, who needed thy care
Teaching them always of sin to beware;
Trying to teach Zion's children to stand
True to each principle God should command.	
Striving to shield our dear children from sin.
By pointing the way where the victory they'd win.
How often when duty stared thee in the face,
Though thy body was weak, thou wert found in thy place;
And though storms might be raging and winds blowing high,
If appointments were made thou wert sure to be nigh;
But now thou hast passed from thine earth-friends away
To mingle with others in Heaven’s bright day.
And we feel thou hast finished thy mission on earth,
And gone to that home which was thine before birth;
Gone to meet the dear friends, thou didst love here so well,
Forever in peace with the righteous to dwell.
										AMY.

	Sister Rachel Davenport died at her residence  in
Iron County, Utah, Feb. 25th, 1889. She has been
a sufferer from Asthma and Dropsy for about eleven years,
and has borne her afflictions with patience; was always
cheerful, and had a kind word, and good advice to give
everyone, and was a strong believer in all the principles
of the Gospel. She was born April 6th, 1854, at Stockfort,
Lanchshire, England. She was the daughter of Thomas
and Mary Ann Wamby Pass, aged 34 years 10 months and
19 days.
	Her parents joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in the old country. She left there when
but eight years old, and emigrated to Utah with Brother
Willivm H. Dame, who was on a mission in that part of
the country; her parents emigrated some years afterwards,
but she remained in his family; Sister Louisa Dame watched


over her as mother. She was always a good, faithful and
obedient child.
	In the fall of 1872 she was married in the Salt Lake
Endowment house to James B. Davenport, and has since
been a faithful wife and mother. She was a member, of 
our Relief Society, and was willing to do all that laid in
her power for the advancement of the work. She always
manifested in her labors that meek and unselfish disposition,
characteristic of a true Saint of God.
	She leaves a husband, three children, and a great num-
ber of relatives and friends who miss her sadly.
					ELIZA BARTON, President.
					ANNIE M. TOPHAM, Secretary.


Training School for Nurses
     On the fifteenth of May, the Second Term of Dr.
Hughes’ Training School for Nurses begins, a class
of twelve (12) students completing their first term of
three months on the fourth of May. This is the
first Training School for Nurses established in
Utah, and the instruction given embraces the best
methods of teaching of the Eastern Schools, whose
systems have been thoroughly investigated by the
teacher. The purpose of this school is to give a
wider knowledge of waiting upon the sick, and all
the branches pertaining to nursing will be thorough- 
ly discussed in the successive terms. The second
term will be held in Dr. Hughes’ new residence, on
First West Street. Students desiring to enter, should
make application as early as possible, so that ar-
rangements can be made for securing text books. 
	TUITION,	-	-	-	$25.00.
     Special arrangements can be made for Obstetrical
teaching. Address:
M. P. Hughes,
P. O. Box 575.				Salt Lake City, Utah.

WANTED.
     Gentlemen and Ladies of good address and
education to enter a commercial business,
where promotion and salary at three dollars
per day is guaranteed, small security required
“or bonds." Address for further particulars,
			M. GLASSFORD,
				354 E. Brigham Street,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS.
     Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In- 
fant’s Shoes.	 
		    112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
     Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
     Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 17.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1889.  No. 23.


EMMA TOONE.

And, is she dead?  'Tis true indeed she's dead
To this cold world of misery and woe,
Yet, living in a sphere that's bright
And glorious, and hard to gain
Except by those, who true to God and right
Have earned a title to that blest abode,
	Like she has done.

And, now she's gone, we would not call her back
Again, to suffer grief and pain,
But thankful feel, that she has been released
To dwell in that bright realm
Where God and angels are,
And there to await the Ressurrection Day
	Where Jesus reigns.

Zion's Home Monthly.  WM. WILLIS.


THE DAUGHTERS OF ZION.

A daughter of Zion, that beautiful name!
	Pray to whom does this title apply?
Does it mean some fair lady of wealth and renown
	That is honored by each passer by?

Does she live in a palace in some foreign land,
	Or in some magnificent castle?
With its lakes and its parks and a retinue grand
	Of maidens and servants and vassals.

O no! she lives not in palace or castle;
	Her few honors are scatterd I ween;
She is one of the humblest children of God,
	Yet her name she'd not change with a queen.

Her people are lowly despised of all nations!
	And the Savior Himself we are told,
Was mocked and derided and nailed to a tree,
	For gathering the sheep to the Fold.

Her Station is humble, but her destiny's grand;
	If she walks in the pathway of duty,
No palace, or castle in the balmiest land,
	Shall equal her haven of beauty.

She lives in a land reserved throughout ages,
	For a people that God could rely on;
To establish His kingdom and battle for truth;
	And He named it the land of Zion.

And there you will find on its fine lofty peaks,
	An ensign unfurled to each nation;
Inviting all people to come and join hands,
	And help in the work of salvation. 

And the land shall be choice, above all other lands;
	When Jesus shall come in His glory
There'll be nothing therein to hurt or destroy
	The hills and the vales shall be holy.

Then Zion's fair daughters be watchful and prudent,
	Shun the wiles and allurements of sin;
Remember the tempter's abroad in the land,
	Endeavoring your favor to win.

Let truth be your motto and virtue your aim;
	And show by precept and example;
That you're willing to work for the kingdom of God,—
	The room for your talent is ample. 

And prove to the world you are worthy to bear,
	This fair name with which God has blessed you,
By doing His will and enduring the trials,
	With which He in wisdom will test you.
										R. M. F.


[Column One]
     [For the EXPONENT.]
        SOME OF THE BEST AUTHORS.
				III
     Mrs. Browning, another talented English 
lady, occurs next to my mind. She was a 
beautiful writer but more masculine in her 
style than the former named writers, and is al-

[Column Two]
﻿together more peculiar and individual. We
may meet “disciples'’ of Mrs. Hemans, of
Adelaide Procter, of Byron, Moore, Shake-
speare or almost any one else but it would be
hard to find an imitator of Elizabeth Barrett
Browning. “Aurora Leigh” is considered her
finest poem as it is also her lengthiest. It is in-
deed beautiful in many of its parts and then
again so abstract as to be hard to understand.
She deals with the philosophy of human life in
a masterly manner and is a grand example of
the reasoning power of woman’s mind coupled
with the fine feeling and tender affection of the
feminine heart.
     “Lady Geraldine’s Courtship” is a beautiful
poem. “Mother and Poet,” “The Cry of the
Human,” “Romance of the Swan’s Nest,” “The
Cry of the Children,” “He Giveth His Beloved
Sleep,” are well known in this country. “The
Four-fold Aspect,” “The Death of Felicia
Hemans,” “The Lost Bower,” “A Drama of
Exile,” “The Virgin Mary to the Child Jesus,”
“The Poet and the Bird,” “The Child Asleep”
and many others are very beautiful. Mrs.
Browning was born in London 1809, and died
at Florence in 1861. She was the wife of the
celebrated poet Robert Browning. The fol-
lowing is an extract from “The Four-fold
Aspect:”

Pray, pray thou who also weepest,
	And the drops will slacken so;
Weep, weep; and the watch thou keepest
	With a quicker count will go.

Think: the shadow on the dial
	For the nature most undone, 
Marks the passing of the trial,
	Proves the presence of the sun:

Look, look up in starry passion,
	To the throne above the Spheres,—
Learn: the spirit's gravitation
	Still must differ from the tear’s.

Hope: with all the strength thou usest
	In embracing thy despair:
Love: the earthly love thou losest
	Shall return to thee more fair.

Work: make clear the forest-tangles
	Of the wildest stranger-land:	
Trust: the blessed deathly angels
	Whisper, “Sabbath hours at hand!”

By the heart's wound when most gory,
	By the longest agony,
Smile!—Behold in sudden glory
	The TRANSFIGURED smiles on thee!

     And ye lifted up your head, and it seemed
as if He said:

"My Beloved, is it so?
Have ye tasted of my woe?		
Of my heaven ye shall not fail!—
He stands brightly where the shade is,
With the keys of Death and Hades,
And there ends the mournful tale:—
So hopefully ye think upon the Dead. 
The Best Thing in the World.
What,s the best thing in the world?
June-rose by May-dew impearled;
Sweet south-wind that means no rain;
Truth, not cruel to a friend;.
Pleasure not in haste to end;
Beauty not self-decked and carted
Till its pride is over-plain; 
Light that never makes you wink;
Memory, that gives no pain;
Love, when, so, you’re loved again.
What’s the best, thing in the world?
—Something out of it I think.
					BIRDIE CLYDE


THE HOME OF CHILDHOOD. 

	"How dear to this heart are the scenes of my childhood 
	   When fond recollection presents them to view
	The orchard, the meadow, the deep tangled wildwood.  
	   And every loved spot that my infancy knew."  

	How true are these words of the poet, 
Wordsworth.  Many can testify that no place
was ever so dear as the home of childhood.  
How eminently proper that the home should 
be the seat of contentment, of affection and of 
true happiness, such as will purify and elevate 
the attributes, and through  these the after life
of the child, nurtured within its walls.  Home 
should ever be shadowed by the wings of love.  
Peace should be the good angel that stands at 
the right hand of the goddess who presides at 
the homestead.  No matter how plain, how 
simple its appointments, if order and harmony 
exist, there is a charm like a talisman that 
abides forever after, with the man or woman, 
and is like a beacon on the golden hills that 
loom up in the distance, and blend with the 
azure of the heavens illuminating the horizon, 
and radiating to the extreme point, causing 
all between to be tinged with the roseate hue 
thus reflected from one point to the other.  

		"Our early days—how often back 
		We turn on life's bewildering track 
		To where, o'er hill and valley plays 
		The sunlight of our early days." 

	No matter how insignificant the fact may 
seem, it is nevertheless a tangible one that a 
happy disposition, a cheerful temperament, in-
stinctively impress others, without any volition 
or will force.  Then how essential that home 
should be filled with an atmosphere of cheer-
fulness.  Not that excess of boisterous mirth 
that always lapses into the very opposite on 
natural principles, but preserve a degree of 
good nature, calm, placid and serene that will 
modify any inequality or incompatibility of 
temper, and restrain the over-abundant force 
of those inclined to recklessness or disobedience.  
There are so many phases of human character 
that need guiding and governing in the home, 
that no one, be he sage or philosopher, can 
mark out the regular routine of action to be 
pursued.  The Bible says each one after his 
kind, but we all know, who have studied 
character, that each individual that comes 
into the world, has some distinct originality 
that distinguishes him from the others; con-
sequently, we see how difficult it is to deal 
justly with all, if we judge from our own 
standard, and must recognize the propriety of 
the Savior's words, "judge not, that ye be not 
judged."  How complicated and magnificent
seems the work of the Creator in making this 
diversity, this variety in the human soul.  It 
is almost beyond our comprehension.  We 
only know such is the case, but we know not 
why, nor how these things are so.  
	But lest I grow abstrusely metaphysical, 
and get far beyond my depth, I will leave 
these mathematical problems and geometrical 
truths, and go back to the home of childhood.  
Ah, me, if we but had better homes all over 
the world, and fewer places of public amuse-
ment and recreation, it seems to me the genera-
tion might be benefited.  However, as I am 
neither prince, potentate, no, nor even a mem-
ber of the legislature, or of an assembly of 
any kind, I have no power to help establish 
laws that would ultimately result in the more 
happy conditions of home life; therefore, I


[Column One]
can only use an influence with my pen, for the
awakening of thought on the subject of homes,
and the moral and spiritual effect of their
surroundings and associations. I know it is a
proverb that “home is home, be it ever so
homely;” but it will bear much qualifying.
The spot we call home may be unattractive in
many respects, but there must be something
that hallows it, or we could not cherish it in
our heart of hearts as the dearest place of all.
Youth is beauty in one sense, and pleasures
are greatly enhanced by the very vigor and
charm that hangs like a crown of glory over
the heads of the young, and reflects its bright-
ness on every object. It is the same in every
land and clime, and among all civilized na-
tions of the earth, whether we go to Italy or
Arabia, home is home, and the more refined
and sensitive the individual, the more delicately
and elaborately are the affections interwoven
with the external objects that are in and around
the home itself. It may be the lilac bush, a
rose tree or a honey-suckle, or all these and
more, but imperceptibly to those around us
forever lingers the memories that can never
die, of the places and attractions of one’s
childhood hours. One of the sweetest of poets
(and poets know how to read the heart pretty
well) writes of the home of his childhood. 

"I've wandered on thro' many a clime where flowers
	of beauty grew,
Where all was blissful to the heart and lovely to the
	view—
I’ve seen them in their twilight pride, and in their
	dress of morn,
But none appeared so sweet to me as the spot where
	I was born."

     The heart clings so affectionately to the ob-
jects that have entwined themselves around its
tendrils in early life, that no after attachments
of the same nature ever take so firm a hold.
First impressions are always strongest, they lay
the foundation for all future life, and should
be as perfect as possible.
     The sort of Bohemian life many well-to-do
people live nowadays is injurious in the ex
treme to children. Living in lodgings, in
hotels, here and there, with no settled home
and no place the child can ever look back to as
a true home, is a great mistake. It may do
for those who have no family. If that class
of people like to be unsettled, and free from
care and responsibility, there is only them-
selves to be considered, but when children are
born to them, the subject becomes serious. By
all means, if parents would raise a family of
good, obedient children, and expect to have
them grow up useful members of society, good
citizens, and an honor to their country and
their God, then let them see to it that the
home of their childhood is neat, cheerful,
beautiful, and orderly as possible. Let no
contention or quarreling be countenanced, and
let the regulations of the home life be such as
will conduce to the well-being of all the in-
mates. Industry is one essential principle.
Each child should do some regular work daily,
and all be so carefully arranged that no one
need feel his burden heavier than it should be.
Labor is not degrading, but elevating, when it
is well done; the silly idea that domestic occu-
pations are menial should be discarded, among
us as a people certainly. To be able to do all
that is necessary in the way of housekeeping,
not omitting any detail, from the cellar to
the garret, is almost indispensable in the edu-
cation of one who expects to be a wife and a
mother. These are the women whose homes
are desirable places of restfulness. The new-
fangled notion of boarding is an egregious
error; if we would have our children grow up
under proper influences. 
     In these respects Utah is pursuing the prop-
er methods. I am aware it is said that “in
Utah there are no homes,” but in the face of

[Column Two]
all that has been said or written on the subject,
I am bold to assert that the Territory of Utah
abounds in happy homes. Homes where
prayer and praise ascend, homes where peace
and content pervade the atmosphere; homes
where all that is purest and best is taught, and
principles of right instilled and engrafted into
the hearts of the little ones so firmly that
nothing can ever erase wholly from the soul.
Traverse this Territory over and see the happy
homes. Humble and lowly they may be, but,
morning and evening, the hymn of gratitude
and prayer of thanksgiving to God is offered
up. Listen to the daily teachings; they are
such as will tend to elevate human character,
and to make genuine men and women, true to
themselves, to their own convictions, to the
Constitution of the United States, and the
principles of liberty that are dearer to the
heart of an American than anything else on
earth. What is life without freedom? It is
out of such homes a race of men and women
will grow up that America will yet be proud
to claim.
     And again we may say that the home of
one’s childhood is where the first seeds of good
or evil are sown that eventually bring forth
fruit, sweet or bitter, as the case may be. O
how grandly essential, then, that these homes,
these nurseries of the human soul, should be
of that character that will give healthy tone
to the living elements embodied in the soul,
and impress them with the genius of nobility,
honor, and true heroism! Our young mothers
should take into consideration everything that
will tend to refine and ennoble the generations
yet unborn. Beautify and adorn the home
outside and inside, but first of all get a per-
manent home. Ancestral halls are famed in
history. Why may this generation not plant
them. Our people are the “old settlers.”
They made the country what it is, planted
the trees and embellished the places with
shrubbery, vines and flowers. They are
building Temples, and structures that will re-
main for generations to come. Then why not
beautiful homes? Homes that the children of
to-day can look back upon with as much love,
as great pride and enthusiasm, and as much
attachment to, as do any of the people in
older countries who cherish the tender senti-
ment of “home sweet home.”
     The way in which this city was laid out is a
self-evident fact that Brigham Young’s idea
of homes for the people was a correct one.
Each lot had sufficient room for a little garden,
where trees, and flowers, and shrubbery might
be cultivated as well as vegetables for table
use. I well remember how much more home-
like the city looked while the gardens re-
mained. But though all may not have gardens,
the home may be made attractive in various
other ways. A few pictures, a little pains
taken to make the furniture look bright and
new, and above everything else rooms kept
neat and tidy. Plenty of sunshine and fresh
air make the house wholesome and the in-
mates better natured. Let the children enjoy
the parlor as well as the grown people.
Never shut the children out from any place
because it is too good for them; they will be
more refined and cultivated if they are taught
how to handle things that are valuable and
pretty, than if they are always denied the
pleasure. Childhood’s hours pass quickly
enough and the cares and perplexities of
life bring about many changes in one’s feelings
and circumstances, therefore it seems wise and
prudent to fortify our children by a generous
supply of good nature and help them to
cultivate all the higher and nobler attributes
of the mind.
		"Gather the rosebuds while ye may,
		   Old time is still a-flying.
		And that same flower that blooms to-day
		   To-morrow shall be dying."


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. 
EDITOR EXPONENT. 
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Cassia Stake was held at Cassia,
March 22d, 1889.  Present on the stand Pre-
sident Louisa Haight and Counselor Elizabeth
Tuttle; presidents of the different branch or-
ganizations, also of the Stake presidency Bro.
H. D. Haight and Counselor Moroni Pickett,
and Robert Wilson, patriarch.
	Conference opened by singing and prayer.
Statistical and financial reports were read,
showing the branches to be in fair condition,
also each president verbally reported, that the
sisters were striving to do their best.
	President Louisa Haight said: “the sisters
have their own salvation to work out and
should have opportunities of performing their
duties.”
	Bishop Taylor of Elba, spoke at some
length on the training of children.
	Counselor Elizabeth Tuttle bore her testi-
mony, and made a few remarks.
	During the afternoon session the conference
was addressed by Brother Moroni Pickett who
spoke of kindness and love in training our
children, and various other interesting subjects.
	Sister Durfee, President of primary at Almo,
advised the young people to make the best of
their opportunities.
	Sister Janet Whittle bore her testimony.
	Sister Annie Bird spoke of the way in which
women everywhere are coming to the front.
“It is a noble thing to be a mother in Israel;
we should esteem the name Latter-day Saint.”
	Brother Robert Wilson spoke at some length
said “a sister with the desire of God in her
heart is a helpmeet indeed; sisters can do
much by prompting their husbands in their
duties, husbands should also prompt their
wives.  Mothers need advancement, for they
have the care and training of the young
children from their infancy."
	Brother Orson Bates spoke upon the burdens
of wifehood, and how a considerate husband
may lighten the same; said if children see no
mean actions they would know none.
	Sister Adelaide Brim of Albion, said a kind
word to the sick was easy to give and was
often the greatest help.  "We should appreci-
ate the privilege of meeting together while we
have it.
	President H. D. Haight spoke upon hus-
bands acknowledging the equality, and consid-
ering the wishes of their wives.
	Closing remarks by President L. Haight.
Adjourned to meet at Elba in three months.
			   LOUISA PICKETT, Secretary.


Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett is said to be
dramatizing her story of “Little St. Elizabeth.”

	There are sixty women among the 16,000
dentists of the United States.

	Jean Ingelow writes in her conservatory
with flowers to the right and flowers to the
left.

	In Detroit, 2,700 women registered to vote
for school directors, and they have elected a
woman to the school board.

	The California Legislature has passed a bill
permitting women to vote for school trustees.
A bill giving full municipal suffrage to women
was defeated in the Senate by a close vote, 15
to 18.

	In British Columbia, where single women
and widows have had municipal suffrage for
many years, a proposition was lately brought
before the local Parliament to make them
eligible to municipal offices. It was defeated
by one vote—6 to 5.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


YEARNINGS.
BY MARY F. SCHUYLER.

If from the fickle hand of fate ’twere mine
To choose a rare and priceless gift, ’twould be
The voice of poetry, whose sweetest strains
Are not the work of skillful hands alone;
Like those of some grand instrument, which keeps
Its purest tones within its gorgeous shell
To charm the favored few.

					Oh, I would sing 
A tender, soothing strain to each sad heart,
Speak words of consolation through my pen— 
Words that will live, cheer, comfort, and sustain
Those to whom sorrow brings no recompense.
Though often radiant Hope comes very near,
Then spreads her snowy wings and soars away
To gladden hearts that seldom know a care.

I would not sing in that majestic strain
Which grandly soars above the common heights,
But I would keep that low, sweet monotone
With which the mother soothes her weary child;
Write words of sympathy that move the heart
To glad responses—make its tendrils reach
Out toward human loves and human joys,
Widen the life that has grown cramped and stern
From constant sorrow.

					This	is all I crave:
To live in other hearts through kindly words
Written or spoken for another’s need;
To know that I have lightened others cares,
Cleared pathways through life’s sharp and piercing thorns
For young and tender feet; steered some frail bark
Around the hidden shoals that would have wrecked
Its dainty life. What higher fame than this?
Each day, each hour my heart appeals to me:
"Write! work for others; let thine helpful words
Run like a golden thread through tarnished lives;
Start in the burdened heart this glad refrain:
'Go sin no more, the Master loveth thee.”
								Chicago Ledger.


[Column One]
AUNT POLLY'S LETTER.

	DEAR AUNT POLLY:
	It seems friendly and easy to sit down and
chat with you a while, but if I were asked to
sit down and write a piece for our EXPONENT I
fear I should not feel  to steal the necessary
time to think and write one; so if Aunt Em
finds enough in this semi-personal letter to
save it from the waste basket fate, you shall
hear now a few of our pilikias.
	"Going home!" Joyful words with a sweet
mellow sound filled with the odors of apples and
plums, tinged brightly with the blush of apple-
blossoms and after-time autumn leaves, and
echoing faintly with the voices of far away
and long absent friends, what words of melody
they are: Going home.
	Meanwhile, you Aunt Polly can guess what
is going on at this end of the line. Shirts,
skirts, pants and panteletts for four dear little
pairs of legs, garments, socks, and paluli’s for
the pater families, (by-the-by I have made
four white paluli’s for my husband this fall),
besides a dress and sundries for mamma and
grandma.
	Grandma tends the two babies, does the
front room work, and sews all day, all day.
Mamma and Lule divide up the kitchen as best
they may, mamma hurrying to sew, sew, sew,
that the work of four weeks may be crowded
into two. Baby’s advent this winter prevented
any sewing being done until the last little
while. You can imagine how a great part of
the winter has been spent—counting the
months; six, five, four, three, then weeks, and
now even the days are numbered and measured.
Can you enter in our busy homes and hear
the half sad, half merry clatter about ways
and means, where we shall stop, and when we
shall arrive. And then the last hours—the
last time at the mill, at the sea, at the meeting-
house, at Laie—and we are gone.

[Column Two]
	Ferns are to be cared for and obtained;
mosses to be dried and pressed; our few com-
mon shells cleaned and prepared. What a
tedious weary job this pressing, drying, and
preserving is, is it not? Only we who have
tried it know anything about it. You know
our friends at home (we have often said here
to one another) think it such a simple matter;
you walk upon the seashore and gather in
your apron all the shells and mosses and coral
you care to, and come home and pack them
up; or you step out your back door and gather
from the surrounding rocks and trees any sort
of ferns or moss you may like or desire.
Shall I repeat the real facts in this to you who
know them so well? No, unnecessary it would
be. So we will leave the society vague, delici-
ously uncertain veil of romantic fancy over
the mystic scene which the words "Sandwich
Islands" calls to every eye, and only when
alone together shall we compare experiences,
and exchange ideas about our Hawiian
Mission.
	I long ardently to see my children, friends
and home again, and yet to know that within
another week I shall have bid good-bye forever
to Laie with its cool sea breezes, its grassy
slopes, and above all, the ever restless, lovely
sea, whose brow, now calm and jewel-crowned,
anon furrowed with grey and sullen foam-
tipped billows—it makes me feel sad, or as the
natives call it kaumaha.
	One grows to love the place, and feel a love
for these poor dark benighted people, dreading
to leave them forever.
	Aunt Polly, I hope to see you with many
in Zion, till then, farewell.
						HOMESPUN.
	P. S.	We are just starting to the sea for
one of our last sea baths, oh, that we could
take the sea home with us. Don't you wish
you were going along? Can you swim?
								H.


[Column One]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		    MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society of this Stake of Zion
was organized in a stake capacity on the 16,
of June 1888. Officers as follows: Lucinda
Hoskins, President, Mary Stewart and Eliza-
beth Zundell, Counselors, Eliza A. Hall,
Secretary. We hold our conferences quarterly
and change the place of meeting, sometimes
holding conference in Malad City and some-
times in Portage.
	August 17, 1888, we held a Relief Society
conference in Portage. Present on the stand
Stake officers, President Oliver G. Hoskins,
Counselors Abraham Zundell and William H.
Gibbs; also the Stake officers of the Relief
Society, Mrs. Lucinda Hoskins presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “Glorious things
of Thee are spoken.” Prayer by Brother
Jesse Dredge, singing “Great is the Lord.”
Reports as follows: Malad, President Annie
Sawyer; Samaria, President Mary D. Davis;
Portage, President Jane Harris; St. John,
President Elvira Harrison. President O. G.
Hoskins addressed  the meeting; exhorted the
sisters to live their religion, and be true to
their integrity, attending to all their duties,
and gave good advice on several different sub-
jects.
	President Lucinda Hoskins made a few
closing remarks: urged the sisters to diligence
in looking after the poor, and advised them
to be humble and prayerful at all times.
After singing, beuediction was pronouneed by
Brother William Johns. Conference adjourned
for three months.
			   ELIZA A. HALL, Secretary.

		 ST. JOHN'S STAKE.
The conference of the Relief Society of this

[Column Two]
Stake was held at St. John’s March 8th, 1889,
commencing at 10 a.m., and occupying two
hours. There were present on the stand Prest.
E. L. S. Udall and her first counselor Frances
White, the second counselor being detained at
home on occount of sickness, President David
K. Udall and other leading brethren and
sisters. The attendance was good, President
Udall presiding. The congregation sang
“Come let us anew our journey pursue,”
prayer was offered by Bishop Willard Farr,
continued with singing; the reports were read,
officers presented and unanimously sustained
by the assembly, after which President Udall
made some opening remarks on the duties of
the sisters expressing joy at the privilege of
meeting with them. Sister Mary E. Freeman,
president of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Stake
gave a very interesting address on “woman’s
mission” showing the necessity of becoming
intelligent, economizing time and having order
in everything etc. Presidents Ellen Greer,
Phebe A. McNeil and Emma B. Coleman re-
orted briefly the condition of the Relief
Society in their respective wards as prosperous
and spoke of the necessity of studying the
laws of health; training of children; thought
that example was better than precept. “They
should be trained up free from the traditions
of the world that they may be shining lights
in the kingdom of God.” President E. L. S.
Udall read from the WOMAN'S EXPONENT “A
New Years Address” by President Zina D. H.
Young, and afterwards referred to it in an in-
teresting manner. Counselor E. N. Freeman
thought the remarks made this morning
equally applicable to man and woman, said to
him they were very interesting. Spoke in an
impressive manner on order and systematizing
our labors; said that the key to success is a
place for everything and everything in its
place.
	President David Udall endorsed the remarks
of former speakers, and felt in his heart to
say God bless the sisters. Spoke in his usual
earnest impressive manner on various subjects
of interest among which was the necessity of
using more graham flour, it being in his opinion
essential to good health. Urged the sisters to
encourage their husbands in the planting of
shade and fruit trees. Conference was then
adjourned for six months, the congregation
sang “The Spirit of God like a fire is burning”
benediction by patriarch James Richey.
		      MARY E. B. FARR Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.

     Missouri has just granted school suffrage to
women.
     The Arkansas Legislature has voted to
admit girls to the State University.
     Marietta Holley, "Josiah Allen's wife," has 
another  book ready for the press.
     Grand celebration in New York yesterday
April 30, anniversary of the inauguration one
hundred years ago.
     Mrs. Elizabeth Stuart Phelps-Ward, with
her husband,, Dr. Ward, is at her old home 
in Andover on a visit to her father.  Her
winter at the South has greatly improved her
health.
     A reception was given at the Kindergarten
for the Blind, Jamaica Plains, Mass., April 9.
Addresses were made by Rev. Phillips Brooks,
Hon. Leverett Saltonstall, and Rev. George A.
Gordon.
     Ramabai has opened her school.  By the
counsel of her advisory board in India, it has
been established in the Back Bay district of
Bombay instead of at Poonah.  Her reception
among her own people has thus far been cordial
and encouraging. EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms: 
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to 
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,						MAY 1, 1889.


ORGAN RECITAL.

	A grand free musical entertainment of a very
high order was given in the large Tabernacle in
this city on the evening of Monday April 15th, for
which careful preparation had been previously
made.  Bishop W. B. Preston presided, and
Bishop O. F. Whitney offered the opening prayer.
Prof. Daynes opened with a solo on the great 
organ, and rendered in his very best style, the
"Pilgrims Song of Hope."  Moroni J. Thomas
sang "Nazareth" (bass solo,) Prof. Radcliffe gave
with thrilling effect "Bach's Tocata and Fague,"
and supplemented it with Batiste's grand offertoire.
The great organ never poured forth more soul
stirring and sympathetic notes than on this mo-
mentous occasion when ten thousand people were
intently listening spell-bound, as it were, under 
the tremor of its most powerful and charming
symphony. Prof. Kent on the clarionette and Prof.
Radcliffe on the organ performed with almost
magic skill and in delightful harmony a larghetto
from Mozart's Quintette which was highly appre-
ciated.  Prof. Daynes then gave "William Tell"
which elicited for him vociferous storms of ap-
plause. Willard Weihe the favorite violinist of
Utah, next came forward and gave a cavatina by
Raff, and his instrument gave expression and re-
sponse to the most sensitive and exalted feelings
of the human soul; after repeated tempests of ap-
plause he gave as an encore "Away down upon
the Swanee River," the audience were almost wild
with enthusiasm, Prof. Radcliffe gave in his lofty
style of rendering Weber's overture to Des Freis-
chutz."  This closed the first part of the programme.
The second part was as grand in style and as suc-
cessful in rendition as the first and after a couple
of organ solos and Beech's Triumphal March,
there was a vocal quartette by Messrs. Easton,
Whitney, Goddard and Spencer, the song was
that tender and beautiful one "When the swallows
homeward fly," the gentlemen were so enthusias-
tically applauded, that they could not resist and
sang as an encore "Soldiers farewell,"  in the
same exquisite voice and manner.  Afterwards
followed instrumental solos from Prof. Radcliffe 
and Minor and Costa's sublime march of triumph
"Naaman," then Prof.  Kent accompanied by
Weihe's orchestra, again thrilled the immense
audience with their divine melody; Miss Bessie
Dean warmly welcomed, sang in her exquisitely
happy style an air from Rossini's "Stabat Mater."
Prof. Radcliffe rendered the aria "Evening Star"
from Tanhauser and also "Wely's March."  The
closing part by the Tabernacle Choir organ and
orchestra was a most sublime effort suited to such 
an occasion, Handel's Hallelujah Chorus from
the oratorio of the Messiah.  Apostle H. J. Grant
pronounced the benediction and the large and at-
tentive congregation who had intently listened for
more than three hours was dismissed.  The pub-


lic are certainly greatly indebted for a very fine 
musical treat, to the Tabernacle Choir and the 
committee of arrangements Messrs.  E. Beesley,
J. J, Daynes, and C, R. Savage.  The concert was
repeated on Friday evening as a sort of ovation to
the Denver excursionists on their visit to this
city.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We have given considerable space to the
speeches made at the Woman Suffrage Meeting
in the Assembly Hall in this City on the 11th, of
April, as it was a meeting of considerable import-
ance; the other speeches by Dr. Hughes, Mrs.
Stanford, Hon. C. W. Penrose, Pres. Geo. Q.
Cannon, and Mrs. Nellie Webber, will be given in
full as reported, in our next issue.
	Mrs. Susie Y. Gates, "Homespun," is on her
way home from the Sandwich Islands whither she
accompanied her husband, Elder Jacob Gates
Jun., three years ago or more, when he was called
to labor there as a Missionary.  Her husband and
her mother Mrs. Lucy B. Young, are also return-
ing home.  They are crossing in a sailing vessel a
new experience for Homespun, of which we shall
doubtless hear an interesting recital after her ar-
rival.
	"SENTIMENTS" from Mrs. Farnsworth President
of the Beaver County W. S. A., published in our
editorial columns, should have been read at the
Suffrage meeting on the 11th, but the time was
fully occupied in speeches from those present,
consequently the address was handed to the edi-
tor that it might have publicity through the paper,
as it certainly deserves on its merits; Mrs. Farns-
worth has taken hold of the work with energy, and
has manifested ability and efficiency worthy of
commendation, as also has Mrs. C. E. Bean Presi-
dent of Sevier County W. S. A.
	The safe passage across the briny deep of the
seven hundred passengers and crew of the ill-
fated Danmark is a cause for universal rejoicing 
and thanksgiving to our Father in heaven by all
who feel for others' woes. The Lord was mind-
ful of them in their calamity, and they must as-
suredly look upon it as little less than a miracle
that they were preserved from a watery grave, by
the timely arrival of the good ship Missouri, and
its noble hearted Commander, who so quickly re-
sponded to their necessities and made all speed
for port that none should perish.
	Thursday, the 18th of April, the Primary
Association of the Eighteenth Ward was reorgan-
ized; Bishop O. F. Whitney and his counselors 
Robert Patrick and William Barton officia-
ting in company with some of the
sisters who had been invited to assist.
Vilate C. Young was appointed President, and
Cornelia H. Clayton and Lavinia Morris, Coun-
selors; Fannie Young, Secretary, and Gertie
Young, assistant secretary, and Chariton Jacobs,
Jr., treasurer.  The names of 115 members were
enrolled. The bishop and his counselors blessed
and set apart the President and her Counselors.
Suitable remarks were made by Sisters E. C.
Clawson, C. C. Cobb, L. A. Wells, M. I. Horne,
and E. B. Wells.
	We announce with much pleasure the visit of
Mrs. Fannie B. Warde the charming newspaper
correspondent and traveler and her daughter to
this city.  Mrs. Warde is gentle and fascinating
in manner and is an easy and versatile conversa-
tionalist.  She visited the City ten or twelve years
ago at which time she met Gen. H. S. Eldredge
and others who showed her some courtesy of
which she has cherished a pleasing remembrance.
Mrs. Warde seems entirely free from prejudice 
on the Mormon question, and manifests consider-
able interest in the subject as touching the condi-
tion of women under the enforcement of the Ed-
[Column 2]
mund's Law.  It is refreshing in view of the mis
representations so widely circulated against Mor-
mon women, to find now and then one who is
willing to believe the facts as they exist, and
listen to the recital of their side of the story from
their own standpoint. We heartily wish Mrs.
Warde a pleasant journey home and success in
her literary work; she is about to bring out two
new books on Mexico, and knowing something of
her talents as a writer, we have no doubt they will
prove beneficial to the public, and we trust also a
financial benefit to the author.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore of Boston, paid a fly-
ing visit to Salt Lake recently, coming with the 
Raymond excursion from the West and arriving
here on Saturday morning, April 20th.  On Sun-
day evening April 21st, Mrs. Livermore delivered
an Easter sermon entitled "Has the Night of
Death no Morning."  The subject being a suit-
able one for Easter Sunday.  She is a magnetic
speaker, a woman of brilliant oratorical power;
fluent in language, she pours forth her thoughts
and feelings seemingly without the least effort.
In appearance she is what might appropriately be
called a magnificent woman; has a splendid
physique, a clear, far-reaching and well-modu-
lated voice.  The officers of the Utah Woman
Suffrage Association hadf decorated the stands in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall profusely and hand-
somely with flowers, in honor of the occasion;
Mrs. Livermore being, as they are well aware,
one of the most noted public lecturers and
speakers on the American platform.
	The newspaper comments upon "the pen and 
paper fighting at Long Range" between the
distinguished writers Ella Wheeler Wilcox and
Gertrude L. Atherton is rather ridiculous, and in
view of the literary reputation of the two ladies
unfortunate if not lamentable.  Women of more
than ordinary minds and attainments should be
above differing on the subject of personal at-
tractions.  Mrs. A. writes: "Ella Wheeler Wilcox
is a little mouse colored woman who needs con-
spicuous dress to be noticed.  Her only good
feature is a sensitive mouth.  She is very thin 
and in a dim light looks quite young."  Mrs. W. 
replies in defiance: "Had I revealed myself as
freely in full dress when you called, as you re-
vealed yourself when I called, your meager
charms of body might have been abashed before
my more generous ones, and my mouse-colored
tints as you must know could easily become a 
lovely golden, by calling in the aid of a hair
bleacher.  The day I last saw you in the cruel
light of the stationer's shop in your morning attire
I noticed with surprise that your former delicate
complextion looked sallow and shriveled.  It gave
me an absolute pang of "regret." Is it not ridicu-
lous thus to fling at each other, in view of the
sentiments advocated in their writings?  It would
be far more fitting to "regret" such littleness as the
sparring of these two, than the complexion or its
comments.


SENTIMENTS.
	Addressed to the Ladies of S. L. City:
   Esteemed Sisters: For we are sisters in the
common cause which increases thought, broadens
and illuminates feeling, in the souls of true, brave,
liberal womanhood, in this great Latter Day Work
termed Woman’s Suffrage. In the creating and
establishing of woman’s claims, natural and law-
ful, in the developing of her qualifications as a
capable, responsible being, every lady who has
this object at heart, we regard as sisters in very
deed!
	I should have been most happy if I could have
been present on this occasion, but circumstances
unavoidable prevented my doing so, still, my good
wishes and sincere desires are for the success and
ultimate victory of our cause. Beaver County has


[Column 1]
a band of earnest, sympathetic co-laborers, whom
we trust may prove worthy of identification with
those of other counties in connection with the
Metropolitan at Salt Lake City. We do not
simply wish to hold the name and possess the title
of a branch association, but will aim to live and
work as a competent, efficient auxiliary to our
Utah's body whole. Our Territory possesses a
broad field in which we all may labor—advance
and become successful if we so desire.	
	This new phase in the duties of some of our
ladies seems strange, almost impracticable, yet,
this will soon pass away, ere long it will become
just as natural and proper to see them acting in a
political cause as an educational, social, or do-
mestic one. God has a mighty mission in reserve
for woman, I regard this as the beginning of a new
era. A broader, a more enlightened day has
dawned. Mothers will now have opportunity to
enlarge intellectual sight, to improve mental abil-
ity, to cultivate and encourage substantial origin-
ality, increase the study of history, philosophy,
science and politics, instead of devoting so much
time to romance, fashion and the demand which
society in all circles now-a-days clamors for in-
cessantly. Woman when placed in a position will
have to from necessity, fill it with credit and dig-
nity, or else stand in the back-ground while her
friends proceed. Nothing is more requisite in the
organization of women than energy, self-reliance,
integrity and perseverance. 
	Good reading is cheap and abundant. If we 
systematize our home duties; have good execu-
tive ability as mothers and house-keepers; teach
our domestics order, tidiness, and promptness, in
habits and work, we ourselves being practical as
well as theoretical women, properly instruct our
children, having them trained to their various
duties, etc., there is no reason why wives and
mothers cannot advance in the scale of intelli-
gence, in the science of civil government along
with their husbands. The obligations which
citizens owe their country every lady should un-
derstand before she takes upon herself the sacred
relationship of wife. Well informed women have
read (or should read) and appreciate the Declara-
tion of American Independence, the Constitution
of the great Republic of the United States. The
principles are pure, noble, broad and grandly
demonstrated in these Heaven-inspired Docu-
ments.
	"Napoleon once asked Madame De Stael what
he could do to most promote the happiness of
France. Her reply is full of political wisdom,
she said: 'Educate and instruct the mothers of
the French people, for mothers are indeed the 
affectionate and effective teachers of the human
race." 
	The homes of a country are the strength of a
nation. The morals, manners, temperance and
conduct of children are as much, if not more, un-
der the influence, discipline and guidance of
mothers as fathers, at least from babyhood until
man or womanhood is attained, therefore the
natural rights of woman require enfranchisement,
if from no other standpoint it is necessary;
mothers cannot teach their children what they
themselves do not know! Politics if utilized
properly would mutually benefit men and women.
Intelligence is power; wilful ignorance, certain
debasement and degeneracy.
	We are proud of our Utah, for she has proven
herself a pioneer in very deed! not only in the
Woman's Suffrage movement but in many others.
She laid the first connecting link between the
Great East and Far West, made travel safe and
emigration sure. I feel akin to her soil, hav-
ing been born at Lehi on the border of Utah Lake,
which point of land, (my birthplace) is now sub-
merged in water. We her citizens, her daughters,
yet hope to show to the world our integrity of
heart, our strength of character; the very ele-
ments of our Territory are beneficial to this end.

[Column 2]
The majestic mountains, high promontories, grand
wild scenery, broad prairies, rich grain and graz-
ing fields, great lakes, beautiful rivers, luxuriant
groves and forests, vast mineral resources, ele-
gant, commodious, and well-appointed homes,
public and private edifices for schools and other
purposes, are all stimulants to woman and indica-
tive of elevation in thought, life, and character.
As was the case in former days of Switzerland
with her brave citizens, who were partakers of
that spirit which in high altitudes is so natural;
they longed for freedom and the right to govern
themselves, which privilege they permanently
gained at the sacrifice of life, property, and after
patient suffering and waiting.
	In reading history, ancient and modern, by 
studying the walks, reputations, and principles of
great,good men, we find they can never be traced
to mothers who were wicked or of inferior endow-
ments, and the reverse in cases like Herod, Nero,
and many others. Phrenology teaches us that
children as a rule inherit their strength from their
fathers, and their intellects from their mothers.
Allowing this to be true, then ladies, how vitally
important that mothers should be not only good
in principle, noble at heart, but brilliant in under-
standing, intelligent in gaining knowledge, and
wise as students in learning the laws of social and
civil government.
	In our free God given America, where for a
hundred and thirteen years has been provided a
home for the oppressed of all nations, and an
asylum for the fugitives of every clime; a land
made holy from having been cemented by the
blood of many noble martyrs, fallen heroes, dear
to the hearts of her countrymen, over which our
flag the emblem of American patriotism still
waves! A great Republic formed of states and
territories whose loyal citizens reverence and de-
fend! A government (which is superior to any
on earth) sacredly enshrined in the breasts of
every freeborn son and daughter; yet this govern-
ment denies woman the right of franchise!
	Ladies, let us work, pray, and live with a motive
in view; study, advance, and protest to regain our
liberties, to re-establish ourselves; unite heart,
voice and influence with those of our sister states
and territories, in petitioning Congress for redress
for free and universal suffrage.
				Sincerely,
						J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.
	Beaver City, Utah, April 2nd, 1889.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WHITE APRON.

[Column 1]
	It is very pretty, more than that—artistic often—
no matter which way it is made out of the endless
variety of styles, and is certainly a great favorite,
but every time I look at a new one, I think a few
thoughts.
	Wherefore all these tucks and trimmings that
require such careful laundrying?	These cost
several times more than the apron itself.  O! you
made those lovely crochet, novelty braid, point
lace, and ric rac laces yourself ? Very creditable
to your artistic tastes, ingenuity and industry to
be sure, but for common every day afternoon
wear, quite an expensive luxury after all. Who
was doing the many different portions of house-
work, sewing, mending, etc., while the daughter's
pretty fingers plied so busily among the intricacies
of that pattern?  I know that apron required
several days labor in the making, and you have a
variety of pretty aprons not to be out matched by
the other girls.  That is what each girl prides
her self upon, I judge.  I know it is fascinating
work, haven't I bent for years over one kind and
another—drawn work, or Portuguse lace we call
it, then darned net lace, of which the beautiful
Oriental lace is now a cheap substitute, besides
every other kind done by needles and hooks that
I could find to learn;  and now when I want to

[Column 2]
read so many good things, my eyes say, "You
might but you wore us out long time ago, with
your thimble in hand."  Dear girls needle work
will wear out, but the treasured store of knowl-
edge gained from study or reading, is imperish-
able and is a bank account to be drawn upon all
your  future life to the full amount invested.
The question is so important yet almost simple;
if you have the time for but one investment of
your mind, which will pay you best in the end,
fancy work or knowledge  ?
	Well, if you must do a little of this fascinating
work, make something for your neck and wrists,
and so elevate your handiwork to where it will
receive its best encomiums, for it can never look
to so good advantage elsewhere.  But the prettiest
lace you ever made or can, will not qualify yon to
enter cultivated society here or hereafter, if you
cannot more than match it with the adornment of
a cultivated mind and heart.  Knowledge is the
most powerful charm and key to future advan-
tages. "But in case I have time for both indul-
gence and study?" asks Miss Fortunatus. Why,
such odds never balance evenly, one will surely
out-balance the other, and which is worth the
most?  But to look at it in another way, what can
be said so much in favor of the pretty white
apron for general wear ? If Jenny is going to
hunt eggs in the barn of what use is that pretty
white article insertioned and satin bowed ?
Who would think of gathering fruit or nuts in
such an one, and  as to picking up chips for the
kitchen fire at mother's request,  the very apron
itself says, 'I can't."  If three year Tommy falls
down, and tears and dirt com-mingle woe-fully
adown his rosy cheeks, bless him, they won't get
wiped away by that starched and decorated
article;  (aren't handkerchiefs generally missing
on such unexpected occasions?)  No white apron
ever wiped away the blood from a freshly pierced
finger in a nectar strung blackberry bush,  or
soothed the blessed toe that, disdaining a pro-
tecting shoe, happened inadvertently upon a
hidden snag in the tempting newly ploughed
ground, oh, no!  When the first butterfly, rashly
incautious, challenges pursuit, and little Annie
forgetful of parental admonitions follows breath-
lessly its zig zag course, until a currant  bush
standing squarely in the way nearly arrests her
progress, what is the consequence  ? Delicate
fabric torn diagonally and unpatchably,  the
ruined remains of lace that cannot be matched,
and dire remembrance of a sister's loving labor,
lost, lost; and the doubtfully balanced chances
of punishment or forgiveness.  Poor little girl,
a strong gingham would better have suited her
play hours.  Just now she would willingly change
places with the washwoman's children that play
all they want to, in clothes that ain't too nice.
When earliest weeds come out in fresh attire
(like servant maids that wear their best on work-
days, lest their position be recognized too readily,)
and tempt the little flori-culturists to hunt for
wild larkspurs, blue-bells and other treasures
that die as soon as transplanted, are they carried
home in the big sister's white apron ? No ma'am,
and No  sir.  Sister Jane looks down at her
lovely apron whereon  little girls in Kate Green-
away hats, and little boys with large trouser seats
and fishing  poles, are distinctly outlined in
cardinal red, and Jimmy and Johnny compre-
hending the situation instantly, proffer their hats
to hold the balls of dirt and precious plants and
go  home bare headed in a vagrant March wind
that has just come along, to complain next morn-
ing of stiff necks, and a slight lump in either
throat.
	Whoever sees carpets gathered up in a fancy
white apron, or a group of socks, stockings and
different colored balls established on the same
ground work ? They would not correspond
harmoniously with the swiss muslin insertioned
above the hem,  with embroidered butterflies


chasing each other over spaces bridged by sky
blue satin ribbon.
	These pretty aprons are well enough occasion-
ally, but show me a good old grandma, mending
for the feet she loves, and a nice blue and white
check apron holds them all, scissors every colored
yarn for all sizes, from Dan's chubby legs to
baby's fine yarn stockings.  And that apron of
grandma's is as clean as can be, and wasn't
laundried by a Chinaman, or sprinkled for the
ironing through that heathen's teeth; or in a
steam laundry with Mr. and Mrs. Everybody's
linen; and it was as ample as grandma's propor-
tions(and they try to match her heart) and I'd
like to know what better apron you could find.
It has corners large enough to bring up and cover
Benny's eyes, while he curls up in her lap to take
an afternoon dose, and he submits to grandma's
apron when he would resent a handkerchief or a
veil in the same office, as an affront.
	Then there's Mary, "a model girl," grandma
says, and Pa and Ma smile an endorsement to
this sentiment, who wears about her forenoon
work an apron like grandma's, only made to suit
the difference in figure, but how neat and sensi-
ble it looks.  Mary has others, nice enough for
just such a blessed home comfort of a girl as
she is.
	Aunt Jane wears a black silk apron that only
needs a brushing when she lays aside her sewing,
and once in a long while a sponging with some
mysterious application, and then it is as good
looking as ever.
	Aunt Jane and I are opposed to the everlasting
white apron, that is, at our age, our style of
dress, the fuss, the bother etc., etc.  We speak
plainly to each other on this vital subject,privately,
you understand, not wishing to even hint anything
openly, that might offend a single dear soul, but
we don't wear them.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	P.S.
	May inquires the meaning of obtaining goods
under false pretenses.  Aunt Jane explains and
May still looks dubious.  It comes out however
that she has been considering how Adelbert El
Roy Jones when escorting Miss Brownlon to an
ice cream saloon, always obsequiously asked her
preference for "lemon or vanilla?" with the air of
a noble Count.  It seems that lately in response to
some requirement of Mrs. A. El Roy Jones, he
amazedly and sternly inquired "haven't you got
flour and potatoes ? what more do you want ?"
May thinks this a parallell case I fear.
								A.J.C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING.
	The meeting of the Utah Woman Suffrage
Association at the Assembly Hall on Thursday
April 11th, was well attended, and the proceed-
ings were highly interesting.  In the absence
of the President, Mrs. Margaret T. Caine, who
was unable to attend, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
presided, and performed the duty ably and
with becoming dignity.  A number of promi-
nent ladies occupied the stand.
	After the preliminary exercises, including
prayer by the Chaplain, Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, the minutes of the preceding meeting and
the names of the members were read by the
Secretary, Cornelia H. Clayton, and some
amendments to the by-laws and other executive
business were submitted and voted upon.  The
meeting was then addressed by
			MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
who deplored the injustice of depriving the wo-
men of Utah of the right of suffrage which they
had exercised for many years without abusing
it.  The mothers of the United States had
always been found side by side with the men in

[Column 2]
their battles for independence, justice and
right.  Who implanted within the breast of
her children the desire for a great and free
government?  The mother.  We look for the
great government of the United States to again
confer upon us the God-given right of suffrage,
because by and with it we will be enabled to do
vast good to the world.  For this we expect to
contend; we expect to reach out our hands to
the women of America, and say we are one
with you in this grand struggle.
		MRS. IDA F. GIBBS,
	I have always been an advocate of woman
suffrage, which I consider a God-given right.
Taxation and representation should always go
together.  The rights of women are eternally
paramount with those of men.  I heard a
young lady not long ago say she would attend
our meetings if they were not so dry and unin-
teresting.  She is a poor woman who will villify
her own sex.  She referred to the great and
glorious labors of the leading suffragists of
America.  At one time in the world's history
women were merely slaves, but gradually they
are gaining their way, and each year sees an
increased number espouse the cause of suffrage,
which ere long shall triumph.  They talk
about the patience of men.  Why, one day's
experience of the average man with the duties
of a wife with a growing family would drive
him into a lunatic asylum.  The more we do
for ourselves, the more the opposite sex respect
us.  I have heard it said that woman was too
good and pure to enter politics; that she would
rapidly be degraded.  I do not think so.  Pol-
itics cannot degrade woman, but woman can
elevate and purify politics.  There is every-
thing to gain and nothing to lose in the cause
in which we are engaged.  I do not believe
that it is necessary for a woman to neglect her
household because she believes in woman suf-
frage.  The question of woman suffrage does
not hinge upon the query as to whether the
majority of women want it or not.  The ques-
tion simply is, whether the right to vote is use-
ful or beneficial.  If it is so to men, it certainly
should be to women.
	The following address was then delivered by
		BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY:
	"I have consented to appear here to-day with
considerable reluctance; not because I was un-
willing to add my mite for the advancement of
a worthy cause, but because I feel painfully
my inefficiency to speak in such a cause.  It is
one to which I have given but little thought
and attention, owing mainly, no doubt, to pre-
occupation in other matters.  If I am thank-
ful for one thing, however, it is that I was born
with a heart free, to a great extent, from
bigotry.  It seems more natural for me to be-
lieve than to doubt, and, believing in woman
suffrage, I never could understand why she
should be denied that privilege, or the enjoy-
ment of any right to which she is justly en-
titled.  I never could see those great and in-
surmountable barriers which many imagine to
intervene between her and the rights which she
justly claims.  Woman is the other half of
man; he is not complete without her.  They
are brother and sister, offspring of the same
heavenly Parentage, and should go hand in
hand in every righteous effort, in every worthy
cause.  It was because I recognized justice and
consistency in her claim for the franchise, that
I never felt called upon to oppose it, while, as
I have said, preoccupation in other matters has
prevented my becoming as active a champion
of her cause as I otherwise might have been.
	Woman is typical of two things in which I
place great faith and confidence, namely; the
Earth upon which we dwell, our mortal
mother, from whom we derive physical nourish-
ment, and the Church of Christ, our spiritual
mother, who ministers to our higher necessities,

[Column 3]
Earth gives us our mortal bodies, which must
return to her bosom from whence they were
taken, and after that, by means of the resur-
rection, she gives them to us again in a new
birth, purified, immortal and eternal, and we
become the children of the Church of Christ in
everlasting glory.  As earth will be glorified
and the Church exalted, so woman will be
glorified and exalted, through obedience and
faithfulness, to the presence of the Highest. 
Woman is the gate-way by which we enter this
world, just as Christ, our Lord, is the gate-way
to the glories that lie beyond.  We cannot
afford to ignore her to whom God has given so
great a mission.  I believe that if the history
of the world—of which we have but a frag-
ment—were entirely told, we would find that
woman has typified in all her experiences the
experience of the Church of God in all ages.
The Church in this dispensation will never be
thrown down or given to another people.
Neither will the cause of woman fail, as at other
times; nevermore will she be trampled on, led
captive,or sold into slavery.  The hour of martyr-
dom for both is past; the day of their triumph
and victory has dawned.
	But there is order in all things that are
divine.  God is not the author of confusion.
"Order is heaven's first law," the poet says, but
we believe that obedience is heaven's first law,
and that order is the result of obedience to
righteous rule.  There must be a head, and in
the same sense that Christ is the head of the
Church, man is the head of the woman. So
says Paul.  Now, this being the case, the ad-
vancement of one means the advancement of
the other, and the degradation of either is the
degradation of both.  Exalt the head and
abase the body and separation ensues; decapi-
tation takes place, and disruption and death
are the result.  What a spectacle a human
body would present with its head swinging in
mid-aid, while the trunk,arms and legs remained
walking below!  No, we cannot exalt man and
degrade woman.  Christ is glorified when his
Church is exalted, and man is lifted up, or
cast down, according as woman is elevated or
depressed.
	But woman should not be idolized, or
worshiped as a deity.  It would seem that
many in modern times were actuated by a de-
sire to make amends in this respect for the
shortcomings of their ancestors.  Hence they
worship woman, or pretend to worship her, and
where but yesterday she was treated as a
slave, to-day she reigns a queen "with hearts
and passions prostrate at her feet."  One ex-
treme is as wrong as the other.  If man is
king, woman is queen; no more, no less.  They
reign together, side by side.  And when we
reach heaven, where God our Father rules the
universe, we will find Him seated on His
throne, a King, and our Mother at His side, a
Queen; not under His feet, nor above His
head.  Earthly things foreshow, or should fore-
show, things heavenly.
	I have often marveled at the inconsistency
of human nature, even in some of its highest
aspects.  We seem unwilling to extend to
others the same rights which we claim for our-
selves.  The Puritans of England fought for
freedom to worship God, and cut off the head
of a tyrant king to file a lasting protest against
oppression, and yet came here and established
a religious despotism, persecuting those who
differed from their peculiar views.  Nor did it
end there.  To-day the poets and patriots of
New England, who have sung and fought for
freedom for whites and blacks in former years,
seem oblivious to deeds of outrage and tyranny
committed right here in Utah.  They seem
unable or unwilling to look beyond their own
state boundary lines.  They will sing
eloquently of the rights of the black man; they
have girded their weapons of war and fought,
bled and died for the liberation of the negro


[Column 1]﻿
slave, but when the rights of the Mormons are
assailed, or the red men are the victims of
wrong, their harps are mute; their muses find
no utterance, their poetic and patriotic souls
fail to respond. Listen while I quote to you
the burning words of one of their living
masters of the lyre.

		"Men! whose boast it is that ye
		Come of fathers brave and free,
		If there breathe on earth a slave,
		Are ye truly free and brave?
		If ye do not feel the chain,
		When it works a brother's pain,
		Are ye not base slaves indeed,
		Slaves unworthy to be freed?

		Women! who shall one day bear
		Sons to breathe New England air,
		If ye hear, without a blush,
		Deeds to make the roused blood rush
		Like red lava through your veins,
		For your sisters now in chains,—
		Answer! are ye fit to be
		Mothers of the brave and free?

		Is true Freedom but to break
		Fetters for our own dear sake,
		And, with leathern hearts, forget
		That we owe mankind a debt?
		No! true freedom is to share
		All the chains our brothers wear,
		And, with heart and hand, to be
		Earnest to make others free!

		They are slaves who fear to speak
		For the fallen and the weak;
		They are slaves who will not choose
		Hatred, scoffing, and abuse,
		Rather than in silence shrink
		From the truth they needs must think;
		They are slaves who dare not be
		In the right with two or three."

	This for the cause of the black man, the
negro slave of the south. But I have heard
no poet sing thus eloquently for the down-
trodden people of Utah, nor for the rights of
the red man, oppressed and trampled on. Why
is it? Is it because they foresaw that the freed
negro would have a vote, and that the Indian
would not? Great heaven! has it come to this,
that poets and patriots can only string their
lyres and unsheathe their swords for votes?—
to secure a party election? I marvel at their
silence in these times. Again, why is it that
notable women, champions of liberty and
standard-bearers of thought, can come into our
midst and survey, unmoved and uncompassion-
ate, the woes and sorrows of their Mormon
sisters, left husbandless and unprotected by the
exile or imprisonment of their companions, or
thrown into dungeons themselves, for the sake
of conscience, and the freedom to worship God
in a land of religious liberty? How can a
Julia Ward Howe and an Emily Faithful,
women whose names are written high on the
scroll of fame, justify their souls in coming here
to see things for themselves, but, instead of
piercing beneath the social crust and telling
what they might have seen and heard, giving
a hasty glance at the surface of things, believ-
ing all the tales told them by the people's
enemies, and going away to repeat to the world
the stale slanders of local falsifiers?
	But I know to some extent what ought to be,
if it does not agree entirely with that which is.
I know that all men are the children of God;
the sons and daughters of one common Paren-
tage; and that we cannot prove our love for
Him unless we love each other and labor
zealously and devotedly for the general wel-
fare. May God speed the day when justice will
be done to all, of every creed and clime, of
every race, sex and condition; when bigotry
and prejudice will melt away like mist before
the morning sun, and the light of freedom,
peace and righteousness universally prevail.

[Column 2]
"For mankind are one in spirit, and an impulse bears
	along
Round the earth's electric circle the swift flash of right or
	wrong;
Whether conscious or unconscious, yet humanity’s vast
	frame,
Through its ocean-sundered fibres, feels the gush of joy or
	shame;
In the gain or loss of one race all the rest have equal
	claim."

	An excellent speech was then made by the
Delegate to the National Suffrage Convention
at Washington, D. C.,
		MRS. EMILY S. RICHARES.
	Many people suppose that the movement for
Woman's Suffrage was inaugarated by certain
strong minded women, because they desired to
usurp the prerogatives of men in govermental
affairs, and that the mere desire of that class
of women to vote is all that is now embraced
in the subject. Such an idea is not only in-
correct but unjust. The question of Woman's
Suffrage is the natural outgrowth of the agita-
tion of Woman's rights, which was commenced
in this country more than fifty years ago, and
which had been going on nearly a score of
years, when Elizabeth Cady Stanton startled her
associates in the Seneca Falls Convention of
1848, with her memorable resolution in favor
of the elective franchise for women. And
while the issue now seems to be upon the ques-
tion of suffrage, there is still lying behind it
that grand idea the elevation of women and the
equality of the sexes.
	In order to clearly understand the suffrage
movement as it now presents itself to us, we
must bear in mind the causes which led to its
inception, and remember the conditions of wo-
men which it sought to change. We will then
see that its adherents desire it as a means, by
which to obtain the civil and political rights
and privileges that belong to women, as well as
men, rather than as a means of gratifying any
personal desire or ambition for prominence in
public life; although the latter has been
charged by many as the real motive for agitat-
ing the question. The facts do not sustain this
charge.
	The following resolution, declaring for Wo-
men's rights, which was unanimously adopted
by the Convention of 1848, gives a fair idea of
the position of its adherents:
	"Resolved, that being invested by the
Creator with the same capabilities and the same
consciousness of responsibility for their exer-
cise, it is demonstrably the right and duty of
Woman, equally with Man, to promote every
righteous cause by every righteous means, and
especially in regard to the great subjects of
morals and religion, it is self-evidently her
right to participate with her brother in teach-
ing them both in private and in public, by
writing, speaking, and by any instrumental-
ities proper to be used, and in any assemblies
proper to be held; and this being a self evident
truth, growing out of the divinely implanted
principles of human nature, any custom or
authority adverse to it, whether modern or
wearing the hoary sanction of antiquity, is to
be regarded as a self evident falsehood and at
war with mankind."
	No fair minded person could object, either
then or now, to the sentiments expressed in
that resolution. but when Mrs. Stanton won for
herself the honor of having initiated the move-
ment for Woman's Suffrage, by presenting to
the same convention her resolution on franchise,
it caused much discussion and was only carried
by a small minority, although only its senti-
ment, and not its terms, was open to criticism.
It read as follows:
	"Resolved that it is the duty of the women
of this country to secure to themselves their
sacred right to the elective franchise."
	The anti-Slavery movements that took place

[Column 3]
during the early part of the present century,
seem to have had a potential influence in start-
ing agitation of the question of Woman's rights,
and it is claimed that the arbitrary exclusion
of Lucretia Mott and her American colleagues
from the "World's Anti-Slavery Convention,"
held at London in 1840, was the immediate
cause for calling a "Woman's rights Conven-
tion" in America, and the inaugaration of the
great work that has since been prosecuted here
for the emancipation of women.
	Lucretia Mott had already spoken in her na-
tive land against the enthraldom of her sex.
She frankly admitted "all the differences that
the Creator had made in the relation of man
and woman" and disclaimed any desire to dis-
turb this relation, but she insisted that the civil,
social and religious disabilities of woman were
such as "to impede her progress, enervate her
mind and paralyse her powers;" thus preventing
her from becoming a "true woman" and a
"moral responsible being." Angelina Grimke,
Abby Kelly and others had enunciated similar
views in different parts of our nation.
	To fully appreciate and justify the striking
words of these noble women, we must pause for
a moment and briefly consider a few of the
disabilities to which our sex were then subject.
An eminent legal author, writing on this sub-
ject says, that the theory of the common law,
which then prevailed with regard to women,
was "a slavish one and a disgrace to any civil-
ized nation;" that "with regard to political
rights, women formed a positive exception to
the general doctrine of equality," and that
language describing their condition, if "applied
to males, would be the exact definition of
political slavery;" that the legal theory made
"the husband and wife one person, and that
person the husband," while there was "scarcely
a legal act of any description" that woman was
competent to perform.
	This is indeed strong language but the facts
justified its use. The Women of America who
to-day enjoy the legal right, without let or
hindrance of any one, to aquire, hold, and
dispose of property, real and personal, without
limit or restriction as to kind or value, can
hardly realize the abject condition of their
sisters, who were disqualified by law from even
holding the legal titles to the homes in which
they dwelt, and whose entire estates, including
the very clothes they wore and the food they
ate, belonged absolutely to their husbands, al-
though it might have been earned, by the
weary toil of their own hands and heads.
	That women are fully capable of filling the
positions of editors, reporters, lawyers, doctors,
merchants, clerks, cashiers, telegraph and tele-
phone operators, typewriters, artists, musicians,
printers, photographers, and scores of other like
professions and callings, has been fully demon-
strated by experience. Many instances are of
record where they have shown equal skill with
men, and greater endurance in the trying
duties of literary and journalistic pursuits, as
well as in professional life. This was notably
the case with women reporters during the last
national political campaign. Many of them
did more work than men, and that too without
stimulants of any kind, while the men resorted
to strong drinks and other stimulants to enable
them to endure the strain of incessant work.
	When we think of the changes that have
been wrought in the few short years since
women were first admitted into the positions I
have named, and others which might be men-
tioned, we are prone to lose sight of the power-
ful agencies that have been at work, during all
these years, breaking down the inexorable laws
and customs of ages, which held woman in their
cruel grasp and prevented her from becoming,
in all the walks of life, the intellectual, moral
and social companion of man.
	How often do we stop to think that this is
the noble work in which the advocates of Wo-


[Column 1]
man's rights and Woman's suffrage have been
so ardently engaged, and who of us can tell how
much of the progress that has been made in
that direction is due to the patient labors of
such women as Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Belva A. Lock-
wood, Lucy Stone, Laura O. Chant, Isabella
Beecher Hooker, Frances E. Willard, Mary A;
Livermore, Julia Ward Howe, Matilda Joslyn
Gage, Elizabeth Lisle Saxon, and scores of 
others who have devoted their lives to the
amelioration of the condition of women? Years
ago they received as encouragement from the
world, derision and scorn, but now the wreath
of laurel and the victor's crown are beginning
to fall upon the furrowed brows of these hon-
ored champions of their sex.
	Still the work of redemption has only just
begun. While the professions and higher
walks of life are open to women of ability, who
can avail themselves of such advantages, their
less favored sisters, the seamstress, the factory
girl, and others similarly situated, are still
struggling to free themselves from the terrors
of that inhuman custom, which prevents them  
from getting the same remuneration for their
labor as that realized by men for the same
work; and thousands of women are now wear-
ing away their lives, (in this great land which
has been consecrated to liberty,) by unremitt-
ing toil, for which many of them receive less
than a quarter of a dollar for a day's work of
nearly eighteen hours; and out of this mis-
erable pittance some of them have to support
their children as well as themselves. Is it not
worthy the best efforts of the best women to
remedy this great evil, and, by enabling
women to get just compensation for the work
they do, abolish much of the suffering that now
exists and obviate many of the necessities that
lead to sin and crime? Such a work must be
worthy of Divine favor, and it lies at the very
foundation of the Woman's Suffrage movement.
	Then the evils of intemperance must be over-
come. The amount of sorrow, suffering
and sin that this demon has entailed upon the 
human race is beyond computation or accurate
estimation. Happy homes have been invaded
and domestic felicity ruthlessly destroyed.
Where peace and plenty were wont to abound,
poverty and strife now take up their abode.
Dutiful wives have become miserable outcasts,
and innocent children have been driven into
dens of vice. No tongue can tell, nor pen de-
pict the misery that drink has wrought. It is
the peculiar work of woman that is destined to 
vanquish the insatiable monster and free her
sex from its most deadly enemy. The great
temperance work that has already been done,
in different parts of the Union, under the direc-
tion of such noble women as Frances Willard, 
Susan B. Anthony and their associates, com-
mands the admiration of the world and fully
justifies the prediction of ultimate triumph.
	The National Woman's Suffrage Association
is the most prominent, as well as the most com-
prehensive organization of women in the land.
While its ostensible object, as indicated by its
name, is to secure the elective franchise for
women, its ultimate purpose is to effect the dis-
enthrallment of woman in all the walks of life,
and every branch of woman's work has the 
hearty sympathy and support of this Associa-
tion. For many years past it has held its
 annual conventions, composed of Delegates
from the different States and Territories, at the
National Capital, and, of late years, United
States Senators, and Congressmen, and others
of National repute, have taken part in their
meetings. Last year an "International Council
of Women" was held at Washington, D. C.,
under the auspices of this Association, at which
were represented nearly every State and Terri-
in the Union, as well as the leading countries
of Europe and other parts of the civilized
world. The Council lasted a week; its pro-

[Column 2]
ceedings are published in a large volume, which
gives a comprehensive and almost marvelous
account of woman's work. Although some-
what familiar with the subject I was not only
delighted but surprised at the varied and 
mammoth proportions of the cause. 
By means of auxiliary associations through-
out the country, such as the one recently organ-
ized in this Territory, the National is able to
carry on systematic work in all the different
departments. When the temperance cause
needs strength, in Kansas or elsewhere, able 
and efficient women are sent from different
parts of the land to wage the warfare there, and
when the labor move needs help in the East,
valiant women are assigned to that department;
and so the good work goes on with quiet but
irresistible momentum.
	Since the National has been holding its con-
ventions at Washington, much work has been
done before Committees of Congress, as well as
with individual members. Several important
hearings have been had, at which the subject
of suffrage has been discussed, and lively de-
bates have taken place in the Senate and 
House of Representatives on this question. At
first it was difficult to find champions for the
cause in either branch of the National Legisla-
ture, but since Senators Blair and Palmer
made their powerful appeals for Woman's Suf-
frage, the number of adherents to the cause has
materially increased and, were it not for the
 stern opposition of Southern Senators—which
is founded on the fact that the enfranchisement
of women means, to the south, an increase of
the colored vote, and consequent negro rule—
the relief sought for could have been obtained
before now.
	While the general work has been going on,
Utah has not been neglected by the National
Association. On several occasions leading suf-
frage women have appeared before Committees
of Congress and protested in the strongest
terms against the taking away of our franchise.
Mrs. Lockwood and Miss Anthony are deserv-
ing of particular mention in this connection,
and their efforts were ably seconded by other
eloquent, warm-hearted women. Having been
present on some of these occasions, I can speak
feelingly of the work that has been done, and 
reverently of the noble women who did it. My
soul has often breathed the prayer: "God
bless and reward them for all they have done
and said for us."
	The woman suffragists are represented by
many talented writers and eloquent speakers.
Their newspapers and periodicals are ably con-
ducted and wield a power for good in the 
land. On the lecture platform and in the
pulpit are heard words of burning eloquence
and poetic pathos from women's lips; and had
I the time, it would afford me pleasure to pay
my humble tribute to some of these distinguised
women, but I must forebear. My purpose in
this brief address has been to show that there
is something really meritorious in the Woman's
Suffrage movement, and that by promoting it,
we do not necessarily depart from woman's
true sphere in life, nor make her usurp man's
prerogatives. Men and women can and should
work together, for the amelioration of the race,
and should share with each other the
responsibilities, as well as the pleasures of 
life.
	Let us use our strength and influence for the
advancement of this noble work, for "woman's
rights are human rights." Let us remember
that however great our own reluctance to
occupy political positions, there are those of
our sex whose lives and honor depend upon
their possession of political power. Let us
not put obstacles in their way, by declaring
that we have all the rights we want, but rather
let us individually petition the powers that be
to grant them deliverance from their oppres-
sions. In doing this we will not try to create

[Column 3]
for man a rival, a superior, or a head, but we
will try to make woman what our beneficient
Creator designed that she should be, the com-
panion, the sister, and the helpmeet of man.  
			(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Celebration of the one hundredth anniver-
sary of the inauguration of Prest. Geo. Wash-
ington in the Tabernacle, this city, April 30,
Lieut. R. W. Young, orator of the day.


Training School for Nurses

	On the fifteenth of May, the Second Term of Dr.
Hughes’ Training School for Nurses begins, a class
of twelve (12) students completing their first term of
three months on the fourth of May. This is the
first Training School for Nurses established in
Utah, and the instruction given embraces the best
methods of teaching of the Eastern Schools, whose
systems have been thoroughly investigated by the
teacher. The purpose of this school is to give a
wider knowledge of waiting upon the sick, and all
the branches pertaining to nursing will be thorough-
ly discussed in the successive terms. The second
term will be held in Dr. Hughes’ new residence, on
First West Street. Students desiring to enter, should
make application as early as possible, so that ar-
rangements can be made for securing text books.
	TUITION,	-	-	-	$25.00.
	Special arrangements can be made for Obstetrical
teaching. Address:
				M. P. Hughes,
P. O. Box 575.				Salt Lake City, Utah.

			    WANTED.
	Gentlemen and Ladies of good address and
education to enter a commercial business,
where promotion and salary at three dollars
per day is guaranteed, small security required
“or bonds.” Address for further particulars,
			M. GLASSFORD,
				354 E. Brigham Street,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
			
R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY .GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 17.                   SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1889.                 No. 24.


NELLIE'S CHILD 
We have brought one more dear Jennie,
	To share your quiet rest;
A habe, whose lips but yesterday 
	Were warm on its mother's breast.

But lo! the world's grey reaper,
	In the silent midnight came 
And folded the babe in his mantle;
	And tenderly breathed her name,

To the ever watchful angels,
	As one too fair and sweet,
To battle with earth's temptations,
	Too fragile its storms to meet.

So he hushed her to rest on his bosom,
	And folded the small white hands,
And kissed her lips, as her spirit passed 
	To the waiting angel bands.

Oh! Weep for the mother's anguish,
	Weep, weep, for the father's pain;
As he laid the beautiful lifeless clay, 
	In her outstreched arms again. 
		
For the sounds of that sobbing midnight,
	Though years may come and go,
Will never pass from that darkened home,
	Or the hearts that loved her so. 

No pearl in its case of velvet,
	No flower, just snatched away 
From the parent vine, was ever so fair,
	As the babe we mourn to-day.

So we brought her to you, dear Jennie,
	To the silent city that lies 
Out under the sunlit heavens,
	Out under the starry skies.
		
With its still white stones, like fingers,
	Pointing ever one untrod way,
Pointing up, through the western shadows.
	Pointing up, through the dawn-light grey.

Where, under the arch of the rainbow,
	And the pitiful falling rain,
We laid you to rest from labor,
	We hid you away from pain.

When we covered you up with blessings 
	For the deeds that your hands had done,
And hallowed your last sweet slumber,
	With the love that your life had won. 

And twice, since we brought you hither,
	With sorrowful hearts and sore,
We have come to thy sacred dwelling,
	And stood by an open door.

Once with your own loved child, and now,
	With the babe of your eldest born;
And the doors are closed to be ope'd no more,
	Till the last great, glorious morn.

So we leave them with you, dear Jennie,
	In the silent city, that lies
Out under the starry heavens,
	Out under the sunlit skies,

With the still white fingers pointing,
	From the dust that our teet hath trod,
To the broad blue path that leadeth,
	To the home of your rest with God.
								MILLICENT.
Zenos, A. I. April, 1889.


[Column 1]
THE VOW OF WASHINGTON.
	The following is a copy of Whittier's poem, read at the 
Washington Centennial Celebration in New York on
[Column 2]
﻿Tuesday last by Clarence M. Bowen, Secretary of the
Centennial Committee:

	The sword was sheathed; in April's sun 
	Lay green the fields by freedom won;
And severed sections, weary of debates,
Joined hands at last and were United States.

	O city sitting by the sea !
	How proud the day that dawned on thee,
When the new era, long desired, began,
And, in its need, the hour had found the man! 

	One thought the cannon salvos spoke;
	The resonant bell-tower's vibrant stroke,
The voiceful streets, the plaudit-echoing halls,
And prayer and hymn borne heavenward from 
		St. Paul's!

	How felt the land in every part 
	The strong throb of a nation's heart,
As its great leader gave, with reverent awe,
His pledge to Union, Liberty and Law! 

	That pledge the heavens above him heard,
	That vow the sleep of centuries stirred;
In world-wide wonder listening people bent,
Their gaze on Freedom's great experiment.

	Could it succeed ? Of honor sold 
	And hopes deceived all history told.
Above the wrecks that strewed the mournful past,
Was the long dream of ages true at last? 

	Thank God! the people's choice was just,
	The one man equal to his trust,
Wise beyond lore, and without weakness good,
Calm in the strength of flawless rectitude !

	His rule of justice, order, peace,
	Made possible the world's release;
Taught prince and serf that power is but a trust,
And rule, alone, which serves the ruled, is just;

	That Freedom generous is, but strong 
	In hate of fraud and selfish wrong,
Pretense that turns her holy truths to lies 
And lawless license masking in her guise. 
 
	Land of his love ! with one glad voice 
	Let thy great sisterhood rejoice;
A century's suns o'er thee have risen and set,
And, God be praised, we are one nation yet.

	And still, we trust, the years to be 
	Shall prove his hope was destiny.
Leaving our flag with all its added stars
Unrent by faction and unstained by wars.
 
	Lo ! where with patient toil he nursed 
	And trained the new-set plant at first,
The widening branches of a stately tree,
Stretch from the sunrise to the sunset sea.
 
	Aud in its broad and sheltering shade,
	Sitting with none to make afraid,
Were we now silent, through each mighty limb,
The winds of heaven would sing the praise of him.

	Our first and best!—his ashes lie
	Beneath his own Virginian sky.
Forgive, forget, O true and just and brave,
The storm that swept above thy sacred grave ! 

	For, ever in the awful strife 
	And dark hours of the nation's life;
Through the fierce tumult pierced his warning word,
Their father's voice his erring children heard ! 

	The change for which he prayed and sought
	In that sharp agony was wrought;
No partial interest draws its alien line 
'Twixt North and South; the cypress and the pine !

	One people now, all doubt beyond,
	His name shall be our Union bond;
We lift our hands to Heaven, and here and now,
Take on our lips the old Centennial vow.
[Column 3]
	For rule and trust must needs be ours;
	Chooser and chosen both are powers
Equal in service as in rights; the claim
Of Duty rests on each and all the same.

	Then let the sovereign millions where
	Our banner floats in sun and air,
From the warm palm lands to Alaska's cold,
Repeat with us the pledge a century old !

Oak Knoll, Danvers, Mass.


KISSING. 	
	To kiss according to Webster means "to
salute with the lips.” And the pleasure derived
there from depends entirely upon the relation-
ship, existing between the kisser and the kissed.
If the souls meet, a thrill of joy and pleasure
permeates the whole system; but if the object
kissed be not a human being, the effect can
not possibly be the same, though the impres-
sion produced may be just as powerful,—forin-
stance when the Idolater kisses his Idol, a re-
ligious sensation comes over him—all his better
nature is aroused, and the baser and more
selfish part of his composition remains in the
back ground. He lives only for his God, and
at that moment, any or every earthly posses-
sion would be sacrificed to further any purpose
believed to be desired by the Idol he worships.
While in such moods the Priests of the dark
ages, used to exert their influence, to lead the
people, and gained control of the earth, so great
their exertions, and so patient their toil.
	When a fond mother takes her babe upon
her knee, she feels all the enrapture of mater-
nal affection, as she presses kiss after kiss upon
the tiny forehead of the little one who nestles
close to the one person, in all the world, whom
it loves. Such pure unadulterated love exists
nowhere else in all humanity. —
	Though the next is the expression (through
the lips) of that deep and all powerful love,
which a noble man bears toward a noble wo-
man, and without which no woman is safe in
becoming a wife—Wicked and unprincipled
men are incapable of such a deep feeling love,
and what the soul does not feel the lips can not
portray.
	Again there is the kiss of deceit, such as
a false friend would administer, the same that
Judas gave his Master in the betrayal—and
the sympathetic kiss given by a parent to a
suffering child, or a living friend to one who
has passed to the other side. In such kisses
the heart speaks, there is love and tenderness
iu the touch of the lips, and sometimes great
relief is realized from penned up grief by
bringing tears to the eyes, which have before
refused to be moistened.
	But if the lips are the most sensitive, the
most impressive, and the most delicately con-
structed organs in the whole body;—how easily
disease can be communicated from the sick or
dead, even from heir-looms, to the devoted
friend or relative, who tries to sooth pain, or
whose reverence of God and Ancestors
prompts him to press his lips to the frequently
handled “Holy Bible” or to any of the many
articles left him by his fore fathers.
	After the same manner can the most dreaded
disease, known to mortal man, be transmitted
from father to son, and from sister to sister;
when it was designed by the Almighty that
only those who should abuse their natural gifts
should suffer from so great a punishment. X.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS
		      BEAVER P. A.
	The 10th anniversary of the Beaver Primary
Association was held March 23d, 1889, con-
sisting of a sumptuous dinner, and a programme
for the aged people; all those of seventy years
and upward were invited, and at 1 o'clock p.m.
the aged were seen wending their way to the
First Ward assembly hall, where a table
spread with the good things of the earth
awaited them; the blessing was pronounced by
Patriarch Johnathan Crosby; after which meet-
ing commenced. President Mary A. Lolton
presiding. Singing, "Beautiful Zion." prayer
by Bishop J. X. Smith. Singing. "Beautiful
Day." Minutes of the previous meeting were
read and approved. The programme was as
follows:
	Roy Sheppard recited "The golden keys,"
Carrie Bird sang. Lucy Jones recited "Good
resolutions." An essay on "Let us be useful,"
was read by Jane Grimshaw. Esther Clay-
borne sang. May Cox recited. Willie Ash
sang. Lillie Stoney recited "The dead doll."
A song was rendered by Willie Ash Wilford,
and Frank Burnett. Ella Pitts recited, A
dialogue was rendered by Cassie O'Donnell
and Nora Baker. Vina White recited "Be
kind to the aged." Lydia Hutchings and
Cassie O'Donnell rendered a duett. Sister
Jane Gillis made a few remarks; Counselor
Mary Fernley sang.
	Counselor Agnes Hutchings spoke a short
time, gave some excellent instructions to the
children. Meeting adjourned for one year
singing "O, come children, come," benediction
by Patriarch Daniel Tyler.
			MARY A. LOLTON, President.
			KATIE SMITH, Secretary-

	    SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARX.
	The quarterly conference of the Primary
Associations of the Salt Lake Stake, was held
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Saturday,
March 16, 1889 at 10 a.m., Counselor Camilla
Cobb presiding. Meeting opened by singing
"Gladly meeting." Prayer by Sister E. How-
ard. Singing, "Good morning," by Mr. Evan
Stephens Primary class; minutes of previous
conference were read and accepted. Recita-
tion by a little boy from the 3d, Ward;
dialogue, two girls from the same ward.
Roscoe. Eardley sang a song. Reports were
then read from the Primaries of the 3,4,5, and
7th wards. Duett by two girls of the 5th,
ward, "Buy my flowers." Reports read from
the 8,10. and 14th wards. Recitation by a
little girl from the 9th ward. "The children
are praying for me," was sung by little Miss
Bowring; reports from the 16,17,20, and 21st
wards.
	Sister E. B. Wells addressed the children;
regretted there were not more boys attending
our primary. Told the children about the Or-
phan Asylum, and that they should be mindful
every day of their blessings in Zion; urged
them to cultivate Faith; related a story illus-
trating her remarks upon the principle of
Faith. Also ureged them to be obedient to 
their parents and to those who preside in their
associations.
	A little boy of the 8th ward sang a song,
also annie Sorenson of the 9th ward sang, and
two girls of the 10, ward sang "Why did they
dig mamma's grave so deep." Reports read
from the 13,15, and Sugar House wards. Song
by a little girl of the 12th ward.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young praised the child-
ren's exercises; wished the Presidents to hand
in the names and ages of the children who
took part in the conference. Asked the child-
ren to repeat after her in chorus:
	'Tis education forms the common mind,
	Just as the twig is bent, the tree's inclined.
Johnnie Merrill and Master Fox each recited
[Column 2]
very nicely. A dialogue was given by five
girls of the 16th ward. Questions were an-
swered by four girls and two boys of the 17th
ward. More reports were read making nineteen
in all. Essay, Master Woodruff of the 21st
ward. Willie Stevens and a little girl of
Union Ward each recited.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze spoke a few minutes
to the children on order and "The word of
Wisdom." Sister E. Howard made a few in-
teresting remarks. Counselor Camilla Cobb
spoke a few words, and adjourned the con-
ference for three months; singing "Good
night," prayer by Counselor Lydia Ann Wells.
					BESSIE DEAN Sec.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Our Relief Society conference was held
March 22d, at the Mess Hall commencing at
1 p. m., President S. M. Pomeroy presiding,
President C. I. Robson and counselors and
other brethren were present; opened by sing-
ing and prayer. President S. M, Pomeroy,
desired the faith and prayes of the brethren
and sisters present, to sustain her in her new
position, presumed we should all miss the kind
face of our former President Sister E. S. Mc-
Donald and none more than herself; prayed
that our hearts might be unitedly raised in
prayer to God, for blessings upon this con
ference, that all who may speak may be
filled with His Spirit.
	Roll of officers called showing a full at-
tendance; minutes of previous conference read
and approyed. Presidents of the several
branches gave verbal reports, showing a
marked improvement among the sisters, espec-
ially in the attendance of meetings. Sister
E.G. McDonald having arrived by the Mesa
stage, was listened to with pleasure while she
addressed the meeting a short time: was happy
to be in our midst again; had enjoyed her
visit while away. Spoke briefly concerning
the prospects of our people who had gathered
to Mexico; thought their hardest trials were
over and their prospects were good for the
future. Thought the authorities there were
friends to our people; they had enver shed the
blood of the Saints or persecuted them; they
were kindly disposed, thought that would be a
place of refuge for the Saints. Spoke of the
principle of Charity. "Our trials cause us to
draw near unto the Lord; we should avoid the
spirit of selfishness, in giving and aiding each
other we are blessed." Spoke of the influence
of the evil one, who is continually laying
snares to entrap those who is continually laying
snares to entrap those who are the hightest, or
who are doing the most good.
	S. M. Pomeroy was pleased Sister McDonald
was with us but regretted it would be for such
a short time. Was gratified with the reports
from the different branches, they were cer-
tainly encouraging. Had visited in company
with her counselors the several places in the
Stake, and cold testify to the truth of the
reports. Spoke of the Indian mission, where
some of our sisters are laboring so faithfully
to benefit and redeem them from their degraded
state; "we should assist them with our faith and
prayers, and not stop there, but donate liberally
to the support of these faithful brethren and
sisters. We should exercise the spirit of
Charity towards each other, avoid slander,
and the spirit of ridicule, which is pernicious
in its effects, and is explained by a famous
German critic as the wit of an ignorant or
stupid person; it is indulged in thoughtlessly
by some just for fun, but somebody is always
hurt." She desired to honor the position she
was placed in, and work in harmony with
the authority of the Stake. The statistical
and financial reports were read and the Relief
society officers sustained.
	Counselor Henry Rogers was glad to see the
growth of the Society; felt that the kingdom
of God was growing; referred to the duties of
[Column 3]
a Teacher. It is no trifling thing to be an
officer in these organizations; let each one re-
alize the responsibility resting upon them and
at the same time be joyful."
	President Charles Robson had listened with
pleasure to the remarks that had been made:
had yet to attend a meeting of the Latter-day
Saints where there was not good instructions;
“it is left with us to carry them out. It is our
duty to live by every word of God unto us.
Whilst the wife is given as an helpmeet, if she
exercises her powers rightfully, she becomes
the larger half.” Felt to bless the sisters and
honor them in their calling as a Relief Society.
Made many more interesting remarks which
were timely and to the point.
	Counselor Sarah Russell spoke briefly: felt
that life was too short to indulge in ill-feelings
towards each other.  "We can assist others in
many ways with words of sympathy and love.”
	Brother Charles Allen spoke a short time, in
a very interesting and encouraging manner;
felt the sisters were doing a good work among
the Saints; and gaye many good instructions to
mothers in Israel. Brother A. F. Stewart and
Oscar Stewart each bore testimony of the
good work being done by the sisters.
	Sister E. G. McDonald wished to make a
few remarks in regard to out new President;
urged the sisters rtq sustain her in her posi- 
tion; bore testimony to her faithfulness as
president of the Teachers and Stake secretary.
The Teachers had heen faithful in their duties,
and the success of the Society was mainly due
to their faithfulness. Their meetings were
among the best she had attended; also bore
testimony to the faithfulness and diligence of
her former counselor Sisters E. Morris and
Sarah Russell, felt this was a duty she owed
them. Thanked the sisters for the faith and
confidence they had eyer shown her.
	President S.M. Pomeroy made closing re-
marks. Felt to thank Sister McDonald for
her kindly interest in her behalf. Felt desir-
ous of doing her duty regardless of fear or
criticism. Thanked the brethren for their
good instructions in regard to our duties, felt
it obligatory (upon us to treasure them up and
put them in practice in our lives.
	Sister Addie Passie was apppointed repre-
sent the Maricopa Stake Relief Society at the
conference to be held in Salt Lake City in
April. The President also recommended the
sisters of the Stake to subscribe for the EX-
PONENT. Conference adjourned for three
months. Singing. Benediction by H. Rogers.
			SUSAN WILCOX, Secretary.


Miss Mary A. Brigham, of Brooklyn, the
new president of Mount Holyoke Seminary
and College, is an alumna of that institution,
and a native of Westboro', Mass. She has
taught at Mount Holyoke and at Ingham Uni-
versity, Leroy, N. Y., besides in Brooklyn, and
has been offered a professorship at Smith
College and the presidency of Wellesley.
	Cases of infection that could be accounted
for in no other way, have been explained by
the fingers as a vehicle.  In handling money,
especially of paper, door knobs, banisters, car
straps, and a hundred things that every one
must frequently touch, there are chances in-
numerable of picking up germs of typhoid,
scarlatina, diphtheria, smallpox, &c. Yet
some persons actually put such things in their
mouths, if not too large! Before eating, or
touching that which is to be eaten, the hands
should be immediately  and scrupulously
washed. We hear much about general clean-
linness as "next to godliness." It may be
added that here, in particular, it is also ahead
of health and safety. The Jews made no mis-
take in that "except they washed they ate not."
It was a sanitary ordinance as well as an ordi-
nance of decency.			Sanitary Era.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SISTER MARTHA.
Dear, patient, suffering one, how very small;
Aught I can do to aid thee, if at all.
One glim'ring ray of light I may extend
To cheer thy loneliness, My Mother's Friend.

My mother loved thee, ere I knew the worth
Of friendship, such as her's and thine, on earth;
She's found that home, of peace and rest so sweet,
Where thou wilt soon, herself and others greet.

The lips of innocence thy name shall bear
Unto the Father; and in guileless prayer,
Tell Him how longingly thy soul doth wait,
Eager to enter the Eternal Gate.

And it shall be, when shades of evening fall,
Thine ears shall hear sweet Seraph voices call,
Bidding thee welcome to the heavenly place,
'Neath the approving smiles of God's dear face.

Peace, peace, oh weary heart! And from this hour,
Be lifted far above each darkening power.
Though things of earth, thine eyes no more behold,
Within thy soul, shall heavenly light unfold. 

The time no longer shall seem long to thee,
Henceforth thy spirit shall be glad and free;
And soon—yea, very soon shall waft away,
From night of gloom, into Celestial day.

To thy poor eyes, all sightless many a year,
How doubly glorious will that light appear;
Which shall reveal, in beauty, and in truth,
Faces and forms, which thou hast loved in youth.

How near, to me, that world of spirits seems!
How oft dear friends, from thence, return in dreams.
Oh, sister Martha, to my parents there,
Wilt thou, for me, a message kindly bear?

Tell them, I'm striving to be meek and pure,
Like them, life's crosses bravely to endure;
That I would tarry till my boys are men,
And help them learn God's holy will and then—

Well, I'll not state what I may then desire,
I'll only ask that God will me inspire,
That all my ways may be his ways for me;
Please tell them this my constant aim shall be.

A few more days for thee—then will be drawn
Aside the veil—from us thou wilt be gone;
Gone to thy loved ones, to thy sure reward;
Dear Sister Martha, Praise, oh, praise the Lord.
								LULA.
April 15th, 1889.


THE POET’S SEASON.
	It has been said, and truly, that Spring is
the poet’s season.  There is a peculiar fresh-
ness in the earth, and in the air, which pene-
trates, as it were, to the very centre of all in-
animate things, and causes the blades of grass
to shoot upward, the leaf and the floweret to
burst forth.  The soul, which is higher than
any of these forms of beauty, must in conform-
ity with creative forces be in sympathy with
all these, especially the soul of the poet, that is
ever more or less en rapport with nature.  The
poet feels this beauty without, this overflowing
of nature’s fountains, and the same impulse is
intensified in him, because the higher order of
his creation demands expression.  In the
Spring the birds carol their sweetest music,
warble forth their most charming melodies;
they sing for joy that new life has sprung up.
The poet Thomson, in his "Season," beseeches
the birds for melody:

	"Lend me your song, ye nightingales!  Oh pour
	The mazy running soul of melody 
	Into my varied verse, while I deduce
	From the first note the hollow cuckoo sings
	The symphony of Spring."

	There is so much music in Springtime that it
is little wonder one tries to catch the inspira-
tion, and utilize some of the rich material to
embellish life in its sober work-a-day phases.

[Column 2]
How beautiful the power of the keenly sensi-
tive, gifted soul who can gather up the sun-
beams, the dewdrops, the music of wood and
glen, in flowing fountain or in song of birds,
and apply its essence and its sweetness to rhyme
and rhythm, and thus carry the pleasures of
Spring into the homes of the people, who, while
they are employed in the various occupations
of life, can nevertheless enjoy the sentiments
others have expressed, and in unison with the
poet exclaim, “These are my own thoughts and
aspirations.” As the chemist extracts and
condenses the strength of the elements of sub-
stances, and uses them for the various purposes
to which they are necessary for man, in food
and medicine, so the poet adds to the richness
of the inner life, the metaphysical, elevating its
tone and giving grace and beauty to the mind
and heart.
	It is not alone the birds who feel the in-
fluence of Spring, but the young lambs skip
and gambol, the calves frolic as though con-
scious of the delights of nature everywhere ap-
parent to man.  Indeed, all the greatest efforts
of nature seem to have culminated through in-
nate forces and assumed tangible forms, or to
have wakened after the long rest of Winter
into newness of life.  The affections are
stronger, too, or at least we so comprehend it,
at this season of bud and bloom, and Tennyson
tells us,in that oft quoted stanza from Locksley
Hall:

"In the Spring a fuller crimson comes upon the robin's
	breast;
In the Spring the wanton lapwing gets himself another
	crest;
In the Spring a livelier iris changes on the burnish'd
	dove;
In the Spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to
	thoughts of love."

	All the pulses of nature are quickened and
the corresponding human pulses likewise, when
the body is in good condition.  Lowell says:

	"What we call nature, all outside ourselves,
	Is but our own conceit of what we see,
	Our own reaction upon what we feel—
	I find my own complexion everywhere."

	Coleridge has said, too:

		"We receive but what we give, 
And in our life alone doth nature live.
Ours is the wedding garment, ours the shroud."

	We might go on quoting the opinions of the
poets on this inexhaustible subject, which has
been so much talked of and still remains more
or less of a mystery, but suffice it to say, the
poet is an interpreter of the beautiful in nature,
but the scientist covers the entirety, for he an-
alyzes nature; and instead of giving us, as the
poet does, its music and beauty inspirationally,
he gives quality and utility, and styles himself
the true interpreter of nature’s forces. 
	Having skimmed over a little of the ground,
and dwelt upon birdnotes and melody, we next
consider the flowers in this connection. 	
	The flowers of Spring are as necessary to in-
spire the poet as are the songs of birds, or
the babble of brooks; and flowers are not only
one of the elements of poetry, but also symbols
of love.  Music, flowers, poetry and love are
very nearly related.  Who can faithfully de-
lineate the effect of flowers upon the senses.
They speak to us forcibly in a silent language
none fully understand, but all interpret in a
measure.  They feast the eye gratefully, and
their fragrance is exhilarating to every sense
we possess.  To enumerate the varieties and
delights of flowers would be impossible, we all
have some favorites, and we all comprehend
what a wilderness this earth would be without
them.  Mary Howitt expresses our own
thought, as true poets ever do, when she
says;

[Column 3]
	"God might have made the earth bring forth
	    Enough for great and small,
	The oak tree and the cedar tree,
	    Without a flower at all;	
	He might have made enough—enough
	    For every want of ours,
	For luxury, medicine and toil,
	    And yet have made no flowers."

	From time immemorial flowers have been
associated with love and tenderness, indeed,
tenderness is a part of love, for what we love
most we are most tender of.  Whatever appeals
to the heart fosters and strengthens the affec-
tions.  It is perhaps because the Spring is the
season when flowers are freshest, and birds sing
sweetest, and skies are bluest, that love is
strongest.  And one’s own heart is so full of
the tender passion that one wonders what the
birds say to each other, and what the flowers
think, and the poet sings of their secrets in
strains like these:

	"I wonder what the Clover thinks,	
	Intimate friend of Bob-o-links,	
	Lover of Daisies slim and white,
	Waltzer with Buttercups at night,

	Oh, who knows what the Clover thinks 
	No one unless the Bob-o-links!"

	Who would sing such a song except one in
love, yes, in love with nature?  And who that
has felt the divine sentiment in its purity and
intensity does not know that to be in love
glorifies all beauty?  In Eastern lands, where
love is said to be most intense, there flowers
abound and fruits are most luxuriant.  Flowers
in the fields and meadows feast the eye of the
traveler and inspire the pen of the poet, but
flowers in and about the home are indications
of beauty in life and character.  Their influ-
ence is always good and brightening.  The
lowliest cottage is handsomely adorned when
flowers are blooming round it, and graceful
vines trail o’er its doorways or its portico.
Even, those who pass by respect its inmates
more, and to the indwellers these simple adorn-
ments are often of more value in adding to
their happiness and enjoyment than the ele-
gancies and splendor of the rich.
	Nature herself is rich in embellishment, if
we will but dispose her varied gifts becom-
ingly.  At all seasons of the year the poet may
find himself in harmony with nature, but the
Spring has many advantages, many charms to
beguile the poet into musical, mazy rhythm.
Therefore we should be lenient with even the
humblest aspirant who sips at the perennial
fount of poesy, remembering that all are weak
compared to the great Author of that nature
to which we are indebted for our subjects
Undoubtedly Spring is the poet’s season, for it
is then God’s goodness strikes us most forcibly,
and the poet must drink freely from the pure
fount of knowledge, and  all intelligence
comes from Him, and He is love.
							AUNT EM.


The Woman’s Congress will meet in Denver,
Col., next October. The following speakers
will take part:
	Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney; “Civil Marriage,”
Laura Linton: “Women in Science,” Helen S.
Shedd: “Women in Affairs,” Mrs. Hazard:
"Crime and Its Punishment,” Speakers of last
year: “Immigration,” Mrs. Stevenson: “Child
Life Among Zunis,” Symposium; “Employ-
ment of Prisoners,” Maria P. Bray: “House-
keeping as a Profession,” Miss Ripley: “The
Sacrifice of Education to Examinations,” Dr.
Smith: “Common-Sense in the Nursery,” Mrs.
Myers: “What Authors Influence the Mind of
Youth To-day,” and Mrs. H. L. T. Wolcott
“Horticulture.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER: WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	MAY 15, 1889.


[Column 1]﻿
WASHINGTON’S INAUGURATION.
	On the 30th, of April a century ago in the city
of New York a ceremony took place which has
just now been commemorated throughout the
United States in a fitting manner after the lapse
of a hundred years. The inauguration of George
Washington the first president of the Great Re-
public is an event of such importance that the
nation can well afford to celebrate with charac-
teristic observances the hundredth anniversary.
“First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts
of his countrymen,” was this great General, hero
and President. After all these long years his
name is everywhere spoken with tenderness and
reverence.
	An interesting and memorable centennial cele-
bration of the anniversary of the first inauguration
is indeed a just and honorable tribute to the mem-
ory of this illustrious General patriot and states-
man, and awakens in the hearts of the people an
appreciation of the blessings that have come down
to them as a heritage from the efforts and labors
of those heroic men whom God inspired to es-
tablish religious liberty and freedom upon this
goodly land, America.
	New York City was very different then from
what it is to-day. The ceremonials of the time
were however very grand and elaborate, and the
display was on a magnificent scale. The formal
official ceremony took place in the Senate
Chamber of the Federal State House, which
looked out upon Broad Street.
	“The windows and the roofs of the houses were
crowded and in the streets the throng was so
dense that it seemed as if one might literally walk
on the heads of the people. The balcony of the
hall was in full view of this assembled multitude.
In the centre of it was placed a table with a rich
covering of red velvet and upon this on a crimson
velvet cushion lay a large and elegant Bible.”
	General Washington’s “entrance on the
balcony was announced by universal shouts of joy
and welcome. His appearance was most solemn
and dignified. Advancing to the front of the
balcony he laid his hand on his heart bowed
several times, and then retired to an arm-chair
near the table. The populace appeared to under-
stand that the scene had overcome him and were
at once hushed in profound silence. After a few
moments Washington arose and came forward,
Chancellor Livingston read the oath according to
the form prescribed by the Constitution, and
Washington repeated it resting his hand upon the
table. Mr. Otis the Secretary of the Senate, then
took the Bible and raised it to the lips of Wash-
ington, who stooped and kissed the book. At
this moment a signal was given by raising a flag
upon the cupola of the hall for a general discharge
of the artillery of the Battery. All the bells in
the city rang out a peal of joy, and the assembled

[Column 2]
multitude sent forth a universal shout: The Presi-
dent again bowed to the people and then retired
from a scene such as the proudest monarch never
enjoyed."
	The ball which was to have been given on the
evening of Inauguration Day was postponed until
May 5th, 1789. Of the ladies who were present on
that occasion much has been said and written and
the subject has been revived during the last few
weeks, and the dresses and jewels worn by them
as well as their illustrious names received due
prominence. The ball was given in the Assembly
Rooms which were in a large wooden building
standing upon the site of the Old City Hall or at
115. Broadway where the Barrell building now is.
About three hundred were present and it is said
Washington danced in the cotillion and in the
minuet at this ball.
	The general centennial celebration of the in-
auguration of George Washington took place in
New York on the 30th of April last, although in
all parts of the United States there were services
and ceremonials and it was observed everywhere
as a National holiday. Utah was not an exception
to the general rule. In the large Tabernacle in
Salt Lake City, also in Ogden and in Provo, there
were suitable services, speeches and music. The
orator of the day in Salt Lake City was Lieut. R.
W. Young a grandson of Brigham Young. In
Provo Bishop O. F. Whitney delivered the ora-
torial address. Both these young gentlemen
acquitted themselves admirably and delighted the
assembled populace. In Salt Lake City the Hon.
Geo. Q. Cannon made a thrilling patriotic speech;
we should be glad to publish in full the speeches
made on the occasion but that is not practicable.
The daily newspapers give full reports of the
wonderful proceedings, parades, speeches and
music, in all the cities and towns throughout the
country. Hereafter we may give some sketches
of the proceedings in New York City.


WEDDING BELLS.
"Hail !  Wedded love, 
Perpetual fountain of domestic sweets."  
	On Tuesday at half past 8 a. m., the 30th, of
April 1889, a marriage ceremony was solemnized
at the residence of Major W. W. Woods, in
Murray, Idaho, the aged Father Joset of the "Old
Mission,” officiating.  In this marriage the writer
has a particular interest, the bride being her
grand-daughter Verona May Woods, who only a
few months ago left the city with her parents who
moved from here to Northern Idaho.  The young
lady was for some time an employee of this office
and her face was familiar to those, who are in the
habit of frequenting it from time to time. The
bridegroom is Mr. Barry N. Hillard, of Murray,
formerly of San Francisco.  The young couple
started the morning of their marriage on their
wedding tour coming direct to this City where
Mrs. Hillard has many relatives and friends.
They were met at the depot on their arrival the
evening of May 2d. by a party of ladies, with a
warm welcome—greetings and congratulations
and a profusion of flowers.  They remained here
only a few days, the time being fully occupied with
visits and calls.  They left on the morning of May
7th, for Chicago where they will spend a few days
in sight-seeing returning home via the Northern
Pacific R.R. taking in St. Paul’s and Minneaopolis
enroute.  May every blessing possible rest upon
the newly wedded pair and the richness of love’s
fruition crown their lives.
	“But happy they!  the happiest of their kind!
	Whom gentle stars unite, and in one fate
	Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings blend.”


A SAD BEREAVEMENT.
	Only a few months ago we published the death
of the wife of Heber M. Wells, and now it be-


comes again our painful duty to record the sad
death of his little son, Manning Beatie Wells, who
departed this life May, 10th, at half past five p m.
His death was peaceful and wholly free from pain,
sinking as though falling into a profound slumber,
the immediate cause being partial paralysis of the
throat.  He was, no doubt, ushered into the pre-
sence of angels," who rejoiced at his coming, 
though unseen to those who waited by his bedside
with sobs and moans.
	For the father, in his lonliness, so suddenly be-
reft, the most intense sympathy is felt.  But he
has the consolation of the promises of the Gospel
to trust in, and two other little children who need
his loving care and constant attention.

	They are not lost!  They are within the door
		That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing--
	With angels bright--and loved ones gone before,
	In the Redeemer's presence evermore, 
		And God himself, their Lord, and Judge and
			King."

	Manning was born in this City August, 1884,
and was a most sensitive and interesting child.
Fondly attached to his mother, he seems to have 
longed for her ever since her death in October
last.  His last words to his agonized father who
sat by his dying bed, breathed more than whis-
pered, were, "Papa, I'm going home!" strikingly
significant and prophetic were those parting
words.  Who shall say that this little child had
not an intuition of the joy of meeting his be-
loved mother; and that just upon the verge of
that "better land," he paused to breathe this
farewell to the beloved one he was leaving 
behind.

	"Better than earthly presence, e'en the dearest,
		Is the great blessing that our partings bring;
	For in the loneliest moments, God is nearest, 
		And from our sorrows heavenly comforts spring, 
			If God be with us."

	The funeral was held at the residence on Sun-
day, May 12, at 12 m., Bishop O. F. Whitney pre-
siding.  The speakers were Bishop Whitney,
Elder John Nicholson, and Apostle H. J. Grant.
The singing was almost heavenly; and the casket
in which lay the form of the little one was literally
buried with flowers, tokens of love from those 
who mourned.  At the grave the scene was pitiful
but all that could be done, to comfort the father
and relatives, seemed to have been accomplished.
The grave was dedicated by Apostle H. J. Grant,
and the choir sang "Rest on the hillside."


SILVER WEDDING.
	Quite a large party of friends of Mrs. Emily H.
Woodmansee assembled at her residence in this
City on the evening of May 7th, to offer their con-
gratulations on the anniversary of her wedding
day twenty-five years previous, and to express
their esteem for one who has contributed so much
to home literature in Utah.  For more than thirty
years Mrs. Woodmansee has written from time
to time, poems that have voiced the sentiments of
the “Mormon” people, and which invariably con-
tain the true ring of the pure metal.  Many choice
gifts of silver articles were brought as small
tokens of friendship and the appreciation of her
labors.  The house was handsomely decorated
with flowers and brilliantly lighted for the occa-
sion.  One thing detracted somewhat from the
enjoyment of the affair; it was the absence of one
of the principal parties in the contract twenty-five
years ago—Mr. Woodmansee himself-—however
the guests were “on pleasure bent,” and there
was much feasting and merriment.  Several fine
singers rendered favorite melodies and simple
ballads awakening sweet and tender memories,
among them were Mrs. Maggie Romney once a
popular songstress, but whom we seldom hear


now-a-days, also Miss Fanny Graehl, Miss Nettie
Raliegh and Miss Gladys Woodmansee—and we
must not neglect to mention in this connection
Mr. C. W. Stayner and Mr. C. R. Savage, The
principal feature of the entertainment, however,
was a poem written by Mrs. Woodmansee and
read by her during the evening as a welcome to
her guests.
		A WORD OF WELCOME.
				———
ADDRESSED TO AN ASSEMBLAGE OF FRIENDS.
				———
	Welcome ! welcome, friends and guests—
		To the best my house can give;
	I am honored, pleased and blessed, 
		Your kind notice to receive.
			Near and dear ye are forsooth
			In the bonds of love and truth.

	From the utmost ends of earth,
		From the kin we call'd our own;
	From the lands that gave us birth,
		Came we here for truth alone;
			Heaven hath made us rich amends.
			Heaven hath sent us sterling friends.

	"In the mountain of the Lord,
		Where resplendent Temples rise,
	Where Jehovah's law and word
		  Goeth forth" to make us wise;
			Where congenial spirits meet,
			Social bliss is most complete.

	High and low, the pure of heart
		On an equal platform stand;
	Wherefore should we drift apart,
		"Be ye one" 'tis Christ's command,
			Pride of riches, pride of race
			Is, in Zion, out of place.


	False distinctions mar the age,
		Haughty souls contempt inspire; 
	Goodness ! is God's standard guage,
		Yet, will modest worth mount higher.
			Children of the King of Kings,
			Be not slaves to friv'lous things.


	Subtle foes our homes surround—
		Waiting on their prey to spring;
	Honest friends are captive bound—
		Close together should we cling.
		 	Link'd by love, both hand and heart—
			Each to each can strength impart.


	Though we drain Life's mingled cup,
		Joys we have beyond compare.
	"Saints of Latter-days" look up !
		Days await us bright and fair.
			Tribulation, loss and pain,
			Yet shall yield us endless gain.

	'Neath this roof, to-night, my friends,
		May you some enjoyment see;
	Cordially my heart extends—
		Unto each a welcome free.
			Welcome, welcome, great and small,
			Welcome, welcome one and all.
					EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
				———
	THE next number of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
June 1, will commence Volume 18, and after care-
ful consideration, we have decided to place this
little home publication within the reach of every
family in Zion, by reducing the price of the sub-
scription, instead of improving the appearance of
the paper.  The price for the coming volume will
be one dollar per year to all subscribers, except
to those living in this city whose paper is sent by
post and that will be 25 cents extra for postage
and also on all foreign papers.
	The regular meeting of the Woman Suffrage
Association of Utah was held in the Social hall
Thursday, May 9, 1889.  Owing to the indisposi-
tion of the President, Mrs. Caine, the chair was
occupied by Mrs. P. J. Riter. Miscellaneous
business having been completed, the following
programme was carried out: Mrs. M. Y. Dougall


read a sketch of Mrs. Mary A. Livermore which
contained a great many exemplary features; as
she was not only a model wife and housekeeper,
but also a lady of superior intellectual ability.
Hon. A. Miner favored the association with an in-
teresting speech upon the object and advancement
of the suffragists.  Miss Viola Pratt, in her
charming manner, favored the assemblage with a
solo entitled "Last Night," which was highly ap-
preciated.  The time having fully expired, a
speech from the Beaver Suffrage association, to be
read by Mrs. Nellie Little, was postponed until
the next meeting.  The association then adjourned
for one month.
	The ladies of Nephi met in the tabernacle at 2
p. m. May 11th, for the purpose of organizing a
Woman Suffrage association.  The meeting was
called to order by Mrs. Mary Pitchforth.  Mrs. 
Pitchforth was nominated chairman of the meet-
ing and Mrs. M. E. Teasdale secretary.  Singing by
the choir:  prayer by Mrs. S. A. Andrews. The
secretary then read the call.  The following
officers were elected:  President, Miss L. A.
Schofield; first vice-president, Mrs. E. B. Bryan; 
second vice-president, Mrs. M. E. Neff; third
vice-president, Mrs. M. A. Cazier; secretary, Miss
Lou Udall; corresponding secretary, Mrs. Annie
Atkin; treasurer, Mrs. L. A, Hartley; executive
board, chairman, Mrs. M. A. Grover; Mrs. M. E
Whitmore, Mrs. Mary Wright, Miss Emma
Adams, Mrs. Ella Jones, Mrs. S. E. Abbott, and
Mrs. Julia Paxman, members of the board.  The 
constitution was then read and adopted. Speeches
were made on woman suffrage by the follow-
ing named ladies and gentleman:  Miss L. A.
Schofield, Mrs. M. Pitchforth, Mr. F. W. Chappell,
Mr. W. H. Jones, Mr. J. W. Paxman and Mr.
Charles Sperry.  The Payson brass band
rendered sweet music at intervals.  The meeting
was well attended by the ladies of Nephi, and a
very pleasant and profitable time was spent.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN OGDEN.

	An official call having been previously issued,
signed by influential women of Ogden, for a 
meeting of suffragists to be held in the Ogden
tabernacle, Monday, April 1, 1889,  accordingly,
in response, there was a large number of ladies
in attendance.  The meeting was called to order
by Mrs. H. C. Brown.  Mrs.  Emily S. Richards,
having been appointed chairman of the Executive
committee for Utah, at the last Annual Conven-
tion of the N. W. S. A. in Washington D. C.
April, 1888, was nominated chairman, protem, of
the meeting.
	The chairman then stated that the first business
in order was to elect a Secretary protem.  Mrs.
Mattie A.  Cannon was elected to that position.
	Meeting opened by singing, "Know this that
every soul is free."  Prayer by the chaplain, Mrs.
Sarah Richards.
	Mrs. Ellen Hamer moved that the chairman
appoint a committee on Constitution and By-laws.
The chair appointed, Emily M. Shirtliff, Ruthinda 
Monch, and Mamie Richards.  While the com-
mittee retired, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, by request,
stated briefly, the object of the meeting.
	Mrs.  Shirtliff being ready to report, read the
By-laws, and upon motion, they were adopted as
read.  The chairman stated: "It is in
order to adjourn for ten minutes, so that
those who wish to become members may have the
privelege of signing the Constitution and becom-
ing members, by paying the initiation fee of
50 cts.
	Ten minutes being up, the house was called to
order by the chairman, who stated the next busi-
ness in order was the election of the permanent 
officers of the Association.
	Mrs. Ella Woodmansee moved that the chair

[Column 2]
appoint a committee to nominate permanent offi-
cers.  The chair then appointed Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, Mrs. H. C. Brown and Mrs. Sarah
Herrick as the committee.
	The following ladies were appointed.  Eliza-
beth Y. Stanford, President; Mamie Richards,
first vice-president; Charlotte Driver, second vice-
president;  Ellen Pingree, secretary;  Aggie
Herrick, assistant secretary; Maggie Chambers
corresponding secretary;  Ella Woodmansee,
treasurer.
	Executive committee—Chairman; Rose Canfield
—Marian Burton—Ellen Hamer—Sarah Bel-
nap—Rose Scowcroft—Belle Littlefield—Nellie
S. Thomas;—Harriet Nye.
	Mrs. A. E. Monch addressed the association
upon the topic of Woman Suffrage.  "Many men
believe that a woman's knowledge should be
limited to the home circle; but when we have
other knowledge, such as an understanding of
Civil Government and kindred subjects, we im-
prove our humble cottages, our home life.  An
eminent writer says: "Show me the mothers of a
nation and I will tell you its character."  The
lady closed with the hope of trying to encourage 
all in the noble cause.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards responded when called
upon, and expressed herself as being very much
interested in this great question.  Did not see
why we should not have the franchise.  The
ladies should be well posted in politics, and able
to hold many public positions as well as men,
and therefore wished to encourage her co-lobor-
ers to regain their votes if possible.
	President E. Y. Stanford was nominated as a
Delegate to attend the Convention held in Salt
Lake City April 9th.  For a short time President
E. Y. Stanford spoke by request.  "Woman has
charge of the rising generation, and for this
reason she should feel interested in the question
of Woman Suffrage and everything that tends to
enlightenment.  Woman's opinions and rights
should be respected; especially, when considered
that it is to benefit the human race, not only in
government, but in every place where her influence
extends, and she should have the largest liberty
to gain intelligence, and to exercise it in promot,
ing the greatest good."  The Association ad-
journed for one month.  Prayer by the chaplain-
Mrs. Sarah Richards.
 			ELLEN PINGREE, Secretary.

	The monthly meeting of the Woman Suffrage
Association of Ogden was held in the County
Court House, May 2d, '89.
	The Association was called to order by Presi-
dent E. Y. Stanford.  Prayer by the chaplain E.
H. Nye, "Glee" by the choir under the leadership 
of Prof. L. D. Edwards.
	An address by Mrs. L. D. Alder, which con-
tained many excellent ideas, relating to the posi-
tion of woman political societies, and was so in-
teresting, that the strictest attention was de-
manded.  The lady came from Salt Lake by in-
vitation of the officers of the Association, and
her address was very much appreciated.
	Mrs. Maria L. Newman of Ogden also made an
excellent address which proved to be instructive
as well as entertaining.
	A delightful song was rendered in sweetest
style by Flora Purdy, accompanied by Prof. L. D.
Edwards.
	Mr. Joseph Stanford kindly consented to speak
for a short time.  He gave many excellent views
upon woman's privileges, encouraged the ladies to
strive to regain their rights.  Referred to Glad-
stone who always counseled with his companion,
and to Lord Palmeston whose wife was a constant
help to him acting as his secretary.  Made happy
allusions to the respect in which great men had
held their wives and taken their advice and sug-
gestions in their high career as statesmen and


politicans, conversing with them upon all subjects
relative to politics and government, as well as
other matters of importance.  There are many
positions in public life to which women are
admirably adapted.  School teaching and the
training of the young is a legitimate field for
women to occupy.  And for which women are more
especially adapted.
	Many other things were referred to by the
speaker that were excellent.  A vote of thanks
was given to all who assisted in carrying out the 
programme.  The names of new members were
read by the secretary.  Glee by the choir; meet-
ing  adjourned for one month.  Prayer by the 
chaplain.  
				ELLEN PINGREE, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	  WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING.
			[CONTINUED]
	A well written address was then delivered
by
		DR. MARTHA P. HUGHES.
	To make men and women nobler, or purer,
or more intelligent, is the object of every
worthy enterprise, political and social, and
without such an aim, every undertaking should 
fail. That such has been the endeavor of the
earnest workers in the field we are now investi-
gating is beyond a doubt in my mind. It is
remarked by one of our modern thinkers,
"that it is not enough to be prompted by a
good motive or be inspired with a zealous de-
sire for the welfare of men and women, for
often honest enthusiasm and conscientious
finaticism have been the exponents of ruinous
schemes and fearful woes, neither is it sufficient
to simply find the instruments for the work of
progress and reform, there must be a combina-
tion of motive and work, a blending of in-
tellect and emotion, a strong desire with a firm 
hand, a righteous purpose with competent skill
to accomplish any permanent good, or to carry
to success any needed reform."
	In the woman's suffrage movements of recent
times there has been exhibited nearly every con-
ceivable combination of motive and instru-
mentality, and the success attending the labors
of philanthropists who have been engaged in
this work of reform has been in many ways
equally vacillating, complicated and discon-
nected, yet out of the work of the last forty
years, those interested in woman's advance-
ment, can find much to encourage and repay
them, and woman to-day has attained a posi-
tion legal and social far above that she held
half a century ago. The women of to-day have
obtained from men their much desired and
much deserved liberty. In these times the
standards of value have been readjusted, and
whereas once physical force and reckless cour-
age, were held in the highest and almost exclu-
sive esteem of mankind, now the jewels of wis-
dom, purity, culture, beauty, love and skill
have a value, that outweigh and can purchase
that brute force once so priceless. Once to be 
born a female. was to become a plaything and
a slave, to-day in the best and most powerful
circles, woman is the peer of the noblest man.
	There was a time when women possessed
none of the rights which they have to day, and
the increasing respect, which the law-makers
are showing them, marks with its various gradu-
ations the advancement of civilization and
Christianity. The regard which men have for
culture, refinement and purity is measured by
their love of women.  "The grade of a man's
mind, and moral attainments, can be safely es-
timated by the respect he shows his lady
friends." To feel the value of true woman-
hood, and to appreciate its delicacy, requires a 
nice and acute intellectual power. Brutes 
never feel it. Barbarous or half civilized men
never recognize it.

[Column 2]
	"The laws of a land are the best indices of
the people's acquirements, and are throughout
all history, the standard by which we judge of 
national advancement in civilization and
morals. We have but little reason to be
ashamed of our judicical standard today, for
the most impartial minds admit that our legal
practice is more just and reasonable in its deal-
ing with women, than that of any nation, or of
any time mentioned in history. There is much
however remaining for great minds to do, and
for the masses to accept, before either male or
female citizens can be said to enjoy perfect free-
dom and perfect equality. Certain it is how-
ever that never has the code of any people
given to woman such extraordinary privileges,
as have been bestowed by the judicial decisions 
and statute laws of our land."
	With the exception of the right to vote and
hold certain political offices, there are no rights
given to unmarried men which unmarried wo-
men do not possess. But it is this right to vote
that we as women of Utah are now contending
for. Having once enjoyed the elective fran-
chise, and having had it taken away from us
without cause, we are justified in appealing to
the nation to regain that which rightly belongs 
to us. That the privilege of voting, and the
holding of political offices by women is going
to do all that the zealous advocates of woman's
suffrage now claim is doubtful in my mind, still
there are no justifiable grounds on which these 
privileges should be withheld from them.
	All men and women are created free and 
equal. All are morally responsible for their
own wrongs. "The difference in their natures is
not a difference in value; but in the kind of 
merit. He has qualities which she has not, she
possesses traits and genius he does not; they
differ from each other and yet, in their worth
to the world, and to God, they are equal with
each other."
	Every human being of sound and matured
judgment should be personally responsible for
his or her own criminal conduct. Sex merely
should not debar any person from public office
or emolument if a constituency be found desir-
ious of his or her service.
	"No privileged class either of sex, wealth, or
descent should be allowed to arise or exist, all
persons should have the legal right to be the
equal of every other, if they can." After wo-
men have attained equal rights in every respect
before the law, that men now enjoy, and it is
only a matter of time when this will be the
case, there will doubtless then be some
drunken, brutal husbands, some parsimonious
and contemptible heads of families, fraud and
wrong doing, aching heads and aching hearts,
perhaps as many as now, but the skirts of the
law will be clean, and will no longer be com-
pelled to bear the blame; and woman will then
stand where she rightfully belongs, on an equal
platform with man before the law.
	"Nature, civilization, Christianity and the
chivalry of the law, as it comes to us from 
Knights of English fendal ages, all combine to
impress upon us, the moral and religious pre-
cept that women should have more rights be-
fore the law than men." But we simply ask for
equal recognition, still I am forced to feel that
many of the hardships that women endure,
arise more from custom and fashion, than from
disabilities before the law.
	"Woman as much as man is the architect of
her own fortunes. There are yet many realms
of silence to be made vocal, many scientific
truths to be discovered, many arts to be per-
fected which require the hands and the minds
of woman. She must feel her new responsibil-
ities." She must begin as nearly all great men
have begun, and give herself to the acquisition
of wisdom and skill, and her very opposition
and difficulties will be gain. Woman must throw
off her bondage to fashion, her submission to

[Column 3]
folly, and desire for frivolities. She must de-
feat the enticements of pleasure, the flatteries
and censures of men. It is a shame, even a
crime under divine laws for a woman to lace
herself into clothing, which makes a consump-
tive suicide of herself, and deteriorates the
physical being of her offspring. It is folly for
a woman who has leisure, to spend her hours
in idle gossip, in reading trashy novels, in fash-
ionable cold-hearted calls after the custom of
the world, instead of storing her mind with
useful knowledge, or instead of visiting the
sick, teaching the young, or assisting in the 
support of herself and others. 
	"All prejudices, all notions of propriety, tend
to genius and culture, a well disciplined mind
and a generous heart will look the Lion Opin-
ion in the eye and move on! He will quail be-
fore her and will assail her no more."
	May the day be hastened when we will not
only have our rights, but also know them, and
knowing dare maintain.
	The next speaker called upon was the
President of the Woman's Suffrage Association
of Ogden,
		      MRS. STANFORD
	She did not understand that the ladies of
this organization claimed equal political posi-
tions with men. They did not ask for the
offices which men only were fitted to fill. They
claimed the right of voting—the right to select
men who are to make the laws which both
sexes are required to obey. Women desired
that such men should be honorable, upright
and truth-loving. She contended that woman
ought to be acquainted with political as well as
other affairs, and that the world would be
better for her knowledge of and participation 
in them.
		HON. C. W. PENROSE
was called upon and he explained that the
right to vote and the right to hold office were 
not identical. For many years the women of
Utah exercised the former, but not the latter.
He was in favor of making no discrimination
against woman on the statute books. There
were offices which women might be able to fill
with ability and profit to themselves and the
public; there were others for which they were not
adapted. The good sense of the voters should
determine this. There were men who were
not fitted for office, but this did not debar them
from voting. He mentioned favorably a num-
ber of the leading ladies in the National Wo-
man Suffrage movement, and said he believed
they were inspired to work for the elevation of
their sex. There was one mistake they made,
and that was in demanding as a natural right
that which had been decided to be but a politi-
cal privilege. Citizenship and the suffrage
were distinct and separate. Every person born
in the United States is a citizen thereof. A
wife, daughter or widow of a citizen, even if of 
foreign birth, is a citizen. Citizenship comes
by birth or naturalization; the right to vote is
conferred by law. A woman has as much in-
herent right to vote as a man, but it is not in
either. The Legislature prescribes the quali-
fications of voters. If voting was an inherent
right, one would have a right to vote as soon as
born. The legal qualifications for voting
differed in different States and countries.
Another mistake made by some so called
“strong-minded” women suffragists was in be-
rating "the monster man" from whom they ex-
pected to obtain the elective franchise. This 
was not good policy, to say the least. A great 
obstacle in the way was the fact that most of 
the women were either opposed or indifferent
to woman suffrage. The work before the asso-
ciation was to spread information and convert
their own sex. When the women of the United
States unite to demand the elective franchise
they will get it. He considered a mistake was


[Column 1]
﻿made in trying for an amendment to the
national Constitution. The suffrage was a 
matter for each State to regulate and if one
State could be captured for woman suffrage
others would follow and eventually all would
come into line. Man and woman should be to-
gether in all things. The male and female ele-
ments were found in all nature and they were
so designed by the Creator in the beginning
and redeemed and exalted men and women
were to have dominion together for all the ages
of eternity. 
	HON. GEORGE Q. CANNON
having entered the building was requested to
address the meeting. He said: I take great
interest in every question that effects men and
women. I have always believed that if there
should be any qualifications for suffrage, sex
should not enter.  Women should have the
right to vote equal with men. I have seen
very many ignorant men exercise the right of
suffrage when they knew as little about the
questions involved as an animal, and at the
same time intelligent women were deprived of
that right. I think this a great injustice. Pro-
hibition is one of the issues of the times. The
question of intemperance, to whom does it ap-
peal most strongly, who is most interested?
The woman, naturally. It has a deeper inter-
est for woman than any one else. Woman's
voice in this and other affairs would doubtless
have a most excellent effect. I do not think
that because a woman was allowed to vote she
would necessarily be called into service in the
army or navy.
	There are those who argue this way, but I
think this is begging the question. I believe
that there are offices that woman could fill, and
many that she would not want to fill. For in-
stance, I do not imagine that a woman would
make a good constable to arrest men, or a
sheriff, to hang men. I believe the right of
suffrage would broaden the minds of the women
of this country. I have never seen any effects
in connection with woman suffrage to deplore.
The speaker referred to the good work per-
formed by able women for their sex and to the
voluntary defense of the people of Utah by
several notable ladies in Washington. He
closed by saying: I pray God to bless you in
this movement. Do not allow division or
jealousy to arise in your midst, but show to all
that you are laboring unitedly for the ad-
vancement of a great cause.
	MRS. NELLIE WEBBER.
	At the close of the present meeting an op-
portunity will be offered to all ladies who have 
not yet joined the Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion of Utah, to enroll their names with the
secretary.
	Fully believing that "in union is strength,"
we have associated ourselves with the National
Woman's Suffrage Association, so that we may
more effectively prosecute the aim and end we
have in view, namely, the enfranchisement of
woman and placing her upon a higher plane
politically than she occupies to-day. To be-
come an auxillary of the national association
we are required to pay a fee of 25 cents each.
For the first fifty enrolled members we are en-
titled to three delegates, and for each addi-
tional twenty-five members an additional dele-
gate. Our enrollment should be as large ss 
possible, because we not only want to show to
our eastern sisters that we are in real earnest
and have the cause of woman's political ad-
vancement at heart, but it gives us greater in-
fluence in the councils of the national associa-
tion, at the last meeting of which we had two
delegates to represent us, and I am pleased to 
say that our cause was most ably and satis-
factorily presented.
	For the benefit of the associations now being

[Column 2]
formed throughout the Territory, who may per-
chance adopt our present by-laws, I will say
that after having worked under them for three
months, we find that they need amending. This 
was under consideration at our last executive
session, and we hope soon to complete and pub-
lish an amended and more perfect set.
	In placing our initiation fee at 25 cents we
were laboring under a misunderstanding as to
the amount per member to be paid to the
national association. Now we learn that in-
stead of its being 25 per cent of our fee it is 25
cents per member, and as the matter now
stands our treasury is empty of funds. But
to increase the fee now would be an injustice to
incoming members, so it has been decided to
allow the present charge for membership to re-
main to the end of the year, when the fee will 
be increased. 
	Associations wishing to become auxiliary to
us can do so upon application and payment of
10 cents for each member enrolled by them.
	For the government of our meetings and ex-
ecutive sessions we have adopted "Roberts'
Rules of Order" and recommend them to all
new organizations. 
	Ladies' should take an interest in this matter
and aid us to place woman side by side politi-
cally with her husband and brother. Our
fathers contended that "taxation without repre-
sentation" was a wrong, and if it were so a hun-
dred years ago, it is no less so today. There
are many women in this Territory who pay
taxes and yet have no voice in the selection of 
public officers through whose hands this money 
is disbursed. I am satisfied that when women
hold the franchise universally we shall not only
have a better administration of public affairs,
but greater economy in all public expenditures;
and I therefore urge upon the ladies to come
forward at once and enroll their names in the
great cause for which we are struggling.
	A vote of thanks was given to the speakers
and the meeting was adjourned subject to the
call of the Secretary; to be published in the 
papers. Several ladies’ came forward and en-
rolled their names as members. The movement
is worthy the support of the women of Utah
and we hope to hear of branch associations all
over the Territory.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	
	The Queen of Greece is a clever painter.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton will spend the 
summer at Hampstead, Long Island, N. Y. 
	Julia Ward Howe's 70th birthday will be 
celebrated May, 27, in Boston. 
	Mrs. Olive Wright, of Colorado, has patented
a filter, which renders hard water soft, and
may be used on any kitchen stove.
	The Woman's News is now published in its 
own office, printed on its own type, managed,
controlled, and all the work done by women. 
	Mrs. Clara B. Colby and Mrs. Laura De
Force Gordon are in Washington Territory,
at work for woman suffrage.
	The Pennsylvania Senate has voted an ap-
propriation of $10,000 to the Woman's Hospi-
tal. 
	On April 25, the Woman's Press Associa-
tion of Washington, paid their respects to Mrs.
Harrison. 
	The Women's Penny Paper, of London, has
begun the publication of a serial story by 
Mabel Collins, dealing with a mother's right to 
her child, and entitled "A Mother's freedom:"
	Two hundred girls are now being educated
in the medical schools of India, and Madras

[Column 2]
has already supplied six fully qualified lady 
doctors for the northern part of the country.
	Among the literary women who favor crema-
tion are Grace Greenwood, Ella Wheeler
Wilcox, Marietta Holley (Josiah Allen's wife)
Rose Terry Cooke, Kate Field, Cella Thaxter'
and Rebecca Harding Davis.
	Governor Hovey, of Indiana, recently ap-
proved of the Commissions of Willametta 
Mench, Minnie Young, Minnie Mobley and 
Anna Gilgour as Notaries Public for the town 
of Columbus, Ind. 
	At Galesburg, Ill., the Council meeting was 
attended by women, ministers and teachers of 
the public schools.  Petitions were presented 
by Knox and Lombard Colleges, and speeches
were made by women urging the Council not 
to grant dramshop licenses. 
	The first annual meeting of the Association
for the Advancement of Household Science
was held in the Chapel of Pardue Univer-
sity, LaFayette, Indiana, on the evenings of 
May 14th and 15th, 1889.  The object of the 
Association is to consider advanced methods of 
housekeeping and the improvement of the
home.
	The petition of John G. Whittier, Mary A. 
Livermore, William Lloyd Garrison, Julia 
Ward Howe, Lucy Stone, Henry B. Black-
well and others for the incorporation of the 
Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Association,
was admitted in the Massachusetts Legisla-
ture, May 1, under a suspension of the rules 
moved by Mr. McCall of Winchester. 
	Women are taught that their highest duty 
is to marry and bear children, yet laws are
framed to punish its fulfillment as a crime.
The minister of railways in Belgium has just 
issued an edict that all married women who 
are mothers, even if their children are grown
up, shall resign their posts in the telegraph
service.—Woman's Standard.
	Miss A. A. Crisp, a professional nurse, in 
charge of a hospital in New Zealand, and who 
had received royal decorations for her service 
in South Africa, Egypt and Turkey, was 
married recently to one of the doctors of the 
hospital, and wore as her wedding costume the 
uniform of her profession.  Nineteen nurses
also in uniform were her bridesmaids. 
	The New England Women's Press Associa-
tion held a business meeting last Wednesday at 
the Parker House, in Boston, the president,
Mrs. Sallie Joy White, in the chair.  Mrs. M.
Elizabeth Green, editor of the Quincy (Mass.)
Patriot, and Miss Louise Imogen Guiney, were 
elected members.  A "high tea" will be served 
to members and friends at the Parker House 
at the next meeting.
	It is late to mention the fact, but one so note-
worthy should not be forgotten, that it was a 
notable gathering of women which took place
in New York in March, when sixty delegates 
representing various women's clubs throughout 
the country, responded to the invitation of 
"Sorosis" to meet with it and form a Confedera-
tion of Woman's Clubs.  Mrs. May Wright 
Sewall spoke on the occasion, of the National 
Council of Women.  There is something 
significant in the present tendency of progres-
sive women, to draw closer together, through 
co-operative work and sympathy unions,
unions within unions, a concentrated yet ever 
widening circle of circles, which can scarcely 
fail to be a strong bulwark of civilization, and 
at the same time moving onward, like a solid 
phalanx, which few obsticles can withstand.—
Woman's News.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister—Last Sunday morning, the 7th inst.,
Sister Emma P. Toone died at her residence in this ward.
For the past six months her health has been very delicate,
but until the last five weeks she has not been wholly con-
fined to her bed; although at times during her illness, her
sufferings have been very intense, yet the cause of her de-
mise may be truthfully styled, General Debility.  In 
labors of love and devotion to the work of salvation for
mankind, her spirit was still willing, but the fleshy taber-
nacle was worn out.  Sister Toone would have been
seventy years old, had she lived until the 26th inst. Ever
since the organization of the Relief Society in 1868,
Sister Toone, until her death, has been a most efficient
and faithful laborer as a Teacher, and for many years has
presided over the quorum of teachers in the 20th ward
branch of the society.  For ten years she has also labored
with indefatigable zeal and most loving tenderness for the 
welfare of the children in the ward in the capacity of the
President of the Primary.
	At her funeral, held in the ward meeting house,
and very largely attended, several of the brethren testified
of the purity of her life, and the wisdom and energy which
characterized all her works; faithful in all things as
a wife and mother, and also as a benefactor to humanity in
the truest sense of the word.  Among the speakers were
Bishop John Sharp, President Francis, of Morgan Stake
and Bishop George Romney, who presided at the funeral.
	For several years Sister Toone's birthday has been cele
brated by many of her friends, who would congregat
about her, with tokens of loving appreciation and es-
teem on that anniversary.
	The following lines were written for and presented to
her on one of those occasions, it being her sixty-third
birthday.

			TO SISTER EMMA P. TOONE.

	Only the ones who are faithful in sorrow,
		Ever can gain the position you hold;
	Earth's richest mines could not purchase or borrow
		Thy fadeless honors, thy treasures untold.

	Here are thy children, and grand children round thee
		T call thee their savior, and say thou art blest;
	Here too, are ties which the Gospel hath found thee,
		Affection and friendship the purest and best.

	Better than all is the sweet, Holy Spirit,
		Which the great Father, alone, can bestow,
	Thou hast sought, thou hast welcomed, and right-
		fully bear it,
	Tenderly teaching thee which way to go.

	Thon hast been steadfast, and nothing could move
		thee;
		Through keenest sorrow thy portion hath been,
	Father hath chastened thee, only to prove thee,
		Cleansing thy soul from all darkness and sin.

	Patient and contrite, submissive and humble
		Doing for others, to bless and to cheer.
	Those who walk constantly thus, will not stumble;
		Dear faithful one, thou hast nothing to fear.

	Over thy sorrows, long buried, yet tearfully,
		Hearts full of sympathy lovingly yearn;
	E'en while we wish for this birthday most cheefully,
		Many a grateful and blessed return.

	If you are happy and honored in seeing,
		Each smiling face which this greeting extends,
	We, too, are honored and happy in being
		Worthy to stand as your sisters and friends.

	Still looking forth, for a brighter tomorrow,
		Which the grand future will shortly unfold—
	Only the ones who are faithful in sorrow,
		Ever can gain the position you hold.

	In the glad morn of the First Resurrection,
		In beauty's freshness, oh, glorious boon;
	Greeted by children, by friends and connections,
		'Mong the sanctified faithful will stand
			Sister Toone.

	The words of this poem express some of the sentiments
given by the brethren who spoke at the funeral, and will
meet a response from all hearts who have known the sub-
ject of this sketch.  Sister Toone was a native of Here-
fordshire, and embraced the Gospel in Warwickshire,
England, in December, 1849.
					LULA GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]﻿	 
			OBITUARIES.

	Died Feb. 27th, 1889, at her residence at St. Charles,
Bear Lake County; Sarah Ingersol Holmes. Deceased
was born Sept., 16th, 1816, at Gloucester, Essex County,
Mass., her father’s name was Isaac Harvey, mother’s name
Dorcas Curtice.
	Sister Holmes crossed the plains in 1853 and went
through to California, stayed there one year then went back
East where she stayed till 1862; in that year she came back
to the Valley and settled at Farmington, Davis County,
She was well known as the Stake President of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake. She was the president of the
Relief Society of Farmington for a number of years pre-
vious. Since her residence at St. Charles, she has been
connected with the Relief Society and Primary of that
Stake, 
	Sister Holmes retained her faculties, until the last, her
son Brother Leonard Floyd, of St. Charles brought her
remains, according to her own request, to be buried be-
side those of her husband in the cemetery of Farmington.
The funeral services were held at the meeting house which
was crowded with her friends, President W. R. Smith,
Anson Call, Bishop Secrist, Elder J. T. Smith, Sisters
Mary S. Clark, Hortensia Leonard and Aurelia Rogers
made remarks on the life and conduct of the deceased.
	She was one of the noblest of women, of her it might be
said "Faithful and true in all things” she lived and died a
saint in the hope of a part in the first resurection. 
	 									COM.

	Died, at Vermillion, Sevier Co., U. T., March 7th, 1889,
Augusta Amelia, beloved wife of Niels Anderson.
	She was born July 3rd, 1845, in Sweden. Was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints July
30th, 1867, emigrated to Utah in 1865. She married Niels
Anderson Feb., 17th, 1866, entering into the principle of
Celestial Marriage. She was a firm believer and advocate
of all the principles pertaining to the New and Everlasting
Covenant. She held the office of President of the Y. L. M.
I. A., of this ward, until compelled by ill-health to resign.
Since the organization of the Relief Society she has been
an active member, and her many acts of kindness have en-
deared her to all.	
	She leaves an aged husband and six children besides
numerous relatives and friends to mourn her departure.
	 			PAULINE L. DASTRUP, Sec., R. S.
	Vermillion, April 17th, 1889.

	We feel it our duty to acquaint you with the death of
two of our beloved sisters, here in Monroe. Sister Mary
Griffiths, wife of David Griffiths, died March 1st, of
punemonia at this place.
	She was born at Little Lever Lancashire, England, Feb.
9, 1811. She leaves a husband, two sons, and two
daughters, and several grand children to mourn her loss.
	Sister Griffiths has been a faithful member of the Relief
Society since its organization: she was also faithful in all
the duties of a true Latter-day Saint, and rejoiced in the 
enjoyment of the blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ,
always trying to do right, and to be humble before the
Lord.
	She has done some work in the Temple, and felt to
praise God for His goodness and mercy. She has also
fulfilled a glorious mission among our sisters, and will long
be remembered by many.

	At Monroe, March 29th, '89, Sister Charlotte Doxford
born April 10, 1813, County of Durham, England. She
was the wife of Joseph F. Doxford. Sister Doxford's last
sickness was dropsy, and for upwards of three months be-
fore her death, she has suffered at times quite severely, yet 
always trusting in the Lord, and depending upon his
goodness and mercy. She has been a true and faithful
mother in Israel, and leaves a husband, two sons and two
daughters, and many grand children to mourn her loss.
	She has gone through many of the hardships encountered
in settling new countries, but was always ready to do all she
could wherever her help was required. She selected the
hymns to be sung at her funeral, which were sung ac-
cording to her request.
	The funeral services of both these sisters, were held at
the meeting house, where the sisters of the Relief Society
had draped the stand and arch over the coffin with white,
and had flowers suitable for such solemn occasions.

		May they rest in peace until the resurrection, 
		When all the faithful will receive their reward.

	Our Relief Society is in a prosperous condition; the
sisters are taking quite an interest in our monthly testimony

[Column 2]
meetings. We have also started weekly meetings again;
they are very well attended. Our teachers are alive to
their duties. 
		Respectfully your sisters in the Gospel, 
				CLARINDA WASHBURN, President.
				MARY SWINDLE, Secretary.


Training School for Nurses
	On the first of June, the Second Term of Dr.
Hughes’ Training School for Nurses begins, a class
of twelve (12) students completing their first term of
three months on the fourth of May. This is the
first Training School for Nurses established in
Utah, and the instruction given embraces the best
methods of teaching of the Eastern Schools, whose
systems have been thoroughly investigated by the
teacher. The purpose of this school is to give a 
wider knowledge of waiting upon the sick, and all
the branches pertaining to nursing will be thorough-
ly discussed in the successive terms. The second
term will be held in Dr. Hughes’ new residence, on
First West Street. Students desiring to enter, should
make application as early as possible, so that ar-
rangements can be made for securing text books.
	TUITION,	-	-	-	$25.00
	Special arrangements can be made for Obstetrical 
teaching.  Address:
			M. P.  Hughes,
P.O. Box 575. 				Salt Lake City, Utah.

SCAMMELL’S
Universal Treasure House
Of Useful Knowledge
Should be purchased by all who wish a
complete work on practical information for
every day use.
	Earnest workers wanted to canvass for it by
the general agent.
			H. A. Hess,
				123 First East Street,
						Salt Lake City.

R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBROIDERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:  
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

