LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

     The ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Saturday, Feb. 21st, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horn presiding. Singing, "How firm a founda-
tion," etc. Prayer by Coun. S. M. Kimball.
Singing, "Come, come ye Saints," etc. Minutes
of previous meeting read and accepted.
Minutes of Y. L. of the 4th and 20th wards, and
P. A. of the 21st, 4th, 5th, 15th, 11th, and 3rd 
wards were read.
     Prest. Horne spoke of the reports, and thought
that seeing so many present was an indication
that there was a desire among the people to do
right. Said the Saints were passing through
peculiar circumstances at present, and it was
good that the Saints could meet and worship
God and enjoy His Holy Spirit; and continued:
“For many years we have received counsel to
avoid trading with our enemies; I regret that we
have not always obeyed this wise counsel, for
we can now see that we have been preparing a
whip for our own backs. We should ask our-
selves, are we living our religion and keeping
God's commandments as we should do? We
want to be firm, for the time will come when
we will have to stand on our own faith.” Made
other good remarks, and spoke affectionately of
Sister Eliza, who then addressed the congrega-
tion.
     Sister E. R. S. S., after expressing her pleasure
in meeting with the sisters once more, gave a
brief account of the way in  which she had pas-
sed the winter, and encouraged the sisters to be
prayerful and faithful in the performance of
every duty and God would overrule everything
for the good of the true Latter-day Saint. His
Saints are dear to Him, and He will care for
them. "I feel proud of those brethren who are
imprisoned for the sake of their religion, for
they have shown themselves to be true and
brave. The principle of plural marriage is as
sacred to-day as ever it was, and I am proud of
those who have courage enough to obey it. If
we are such a people as God loves we will not
shrink or cower if every nation should rise up
against us; for He loves the noble and brave
and the righteous.” She then related a dream
concerning the ship of Zion, and earnestly ex-
horted the sisters to be firm and faithful, and
closed by praying God to bless all who desired
to do right.
     Sister E. S. Taylor made some preliminary
remarks, thought our persecutions were doing
us good and waking us up to a better sense of
our duty. Thought the Lord had a purpose in
permitting these trials to come upon His Saints,
and may we each be able to say, "Thy will be
done,"  is my prayer.
     Coun. S. M. Kimbal and Coun. B. W. Smith,
each mad a few remarks, expressing their ap-
preciation of the meeting and their desire to do
right, and Prest. Horne made a few closing re-


marks, and related a dream she had several
years ago, which foretold the Saints would have
persecution if they lived faithful.
	Sister Ellen C. Glawson gave notice of the of-
ficers meeting of the Primary Association, and
the meeting adjourned for two weeks.  Singing,
"Now let us rejoice,"  etc.  Benediction by Mrs.
Rachel R. Grant.
	
	The ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Room, Saturday, Marth 7th, at 2 p.m., Mrs. M
Isabella Horne presiding.  Singing, "The time
is nigh," etc.  Prayer by Mrs. Hannah T. King
Singing, "Sweet is the work, my God, my
King"  Minutes of previous meeting read and
adopted.  Minutes of the Y. L.  from the 10th, 20th,
19th 17th, and of the P. A. from the 6th, 15th, 
12th, 10th, 11th, 16th and 4th wards.
	Prest. Horne, in her opening remarks, said
she had a note from Sister Hines, who was
prayed for in our last meeting; she says she re-
ceived immediate relief, and wishes to thank us
for it.  "It is a great privilege to be instrumen-
tal in healing the sick. Thought our prayers
would avail much if we were as good as we
knew how to be; was thankful that there was
an awakening among the Saints to a sense of
their duty.  "The Lord is pleased with us when
we meet together and speak of his goodness and
try to sustain each other in our trials and afflic
tions. Let us recollect the incidents of Brother
Burton's trial some years ago, in which the
hand of the Lord was so plainly manifest."
Prest Horne then expressed a desire to have the
sisters bear their testimony, and felt they would
have a good time together. 
	Mrs. H. T. King endorsed the remarks of
Prest. Horne, and spoke of prayer meetings,
thought they would be a great benefit to the
Saints; referred to the blessings arising from
prayer.
	Mrs. Watmough bore a strong testimony, and
exhorted the sisters to be faithful.
	Sisters Norman, Fowler and several others
bore faithful testimonies. Prest. Horne made
aa few closing remarks and gave notice of the 
Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion, which would be held Friday,
March 21st, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. at that place;
also of the Primary Conference, March 22nd, at
10 a.m., and the Y. L. M. I. A. the same after-
noon at 2 p.m.  Singing, Doxology.  Benedic-
tion by Coun. S. M. Kimball.


