CORRESPONDENCE.
RICHMOND, Feb. 10, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
    Many times have I resolved on writing a few
lines about our Relief Soriety, but as procras-
tination is the thief of time so it has been
my bane in this regard.  Not because we have
no regard for our valuable paper, in which are
so many good things, all tending to the one


great object, as helps to build up the kingdom,
manifestatious of God’s goodness to His people,
strengtheners of our faith in His holy com-
mandments, knowing, learning that when He
says as thy day thy strength shall be, ’tis not
said in vain; every day, nay, every hour, He
shews forth to His people, if they will lean on
Him in the hour of distress, He is there, and
that for to bless, comfort and cheer. The
communications we read in our paper all tend
to make our hearts glad, knowing that our
God is no respecter of persons, but all who
will learn of His ways and walk in His paths
shall partake of His loving care.
	I will relate one circumstance of my life:
Soon after I joined the Church in England, be-
ing the only one of my family that had joined,
afterwards my aunt and mother yielded obedi-
ence to the truth, I was the only girl of a fam-
ily of boys, who were very much put out at
my joining the Latter-day Saints.  Polygamy
was not taught then.  I heard that it was to
be taught the next week, it was a great shock
to me, for I felt it was opposed to my feelings
and how could I face my brothers at such a
time. The members of the Church talked to
me,but 'twas to no purpose; they at last told me
to ask the Lord and He would give me a tes-
timony.  Very earnestly I prayed that if the
doctrine was true He would convince me of it,
for I could not fight within and without.  In
two hours from that time the knowledge was
given to me that it was true.  That was over
thirty years ago, I have never doubted that
principle, but came to Zion and lived in it,and
had my varied experience; ’twas true then, ’tis
still true, and God will fight our battles if we
live near unto Him.  He has promised that
He will make the wrath of man to praise His
holy name; the rest He will restrain.
	Let us lift up our hearts  continually in
prayer that God will hasten the time when
righteousness shall reign and wickedness cease.
God bless all Israel.
	Yours truly in the covenant,
					B M. B.
P. S. Our Relief Society as a whole is
doing well.  Our president and her aids strive
to co-operate together for the best good of the
whole, if any suffer it is because they do not
make their wants known.  Our reports were
considered satisfactory.  We are having rather
dull times here; cash very scarce, but we are
striving for our course, to be upward and on-
ward.


﻿On Tuesday, Feb. 24th, the chair laid before
the United States Senate a memorial from the
Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Association
praying that Congress may take steps to pro-
hibit the disfranchisement of citizens of the
United States on account of sex.


