	UTAH STAKE PRIMARY.
	Synopsis of the minutes of the business meet-
ing and conference of Primary Association of
Utah Stake, held in Provo City, Feb. 26th,
1885:
	The officers by invitation convened in the
4th Ward Society House at 10 o’clock a.m,
Prest. Annie K. Smoot presiding. Singing,
“Lord; we come before Thee now,”etc.; Prayer
by Sister Harriet Goodman; Singing, "I'll
praise my Maker while  I've breath" Roll
called and 22 wards and districts responded.
The financial report of the stake was then
read.
	Mrs. Annie K. Smoot was happy to meet
with so many of the sisters; made some very in-
structive and interesting remarks.
	Verbal reports were given by the officers of
the different associations.	 
	Prest. Louie Felt from Salt Lake City being
present gave some good counsel, and encour-
aged the sisters in the good work in which they
were engaged.
	Meeting was then adjourned until half past
one p.m. Benediction by Sister Sarah Roberts.
We then partook of lunch, which was provid-
ed by the officers of Provo. 
	Meeting adjourned to the Provo Tabernacle
for conference, Prest. Annie K. Smoot presid-
ing. Singing by the children, "A happy band
of children;" Prayer by Prest. David John;
Singing, "Am I a soldier of the cross." Prest.
John then put the names of the stake officers
before the meeting and they were voted in as
follows: Annie K. Smoot, President; Eliza-
beth Taylor and Sarah E. Cluff, Counselors;
Mary Stewart, Secretary; Grace Smith, Asst.
Sec.; Delia Maeser, Treasurer.	
	Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved. Programme was carried out with
songs, recitations, dialogues, etc., by the chil-
dren.
	Prest. Louie Felt made some very good re-
marks; told the children to try and learn some-
thing new every day. Closed by asking God
to bless all.
	Counselors E. Taylor and S. E. Cluff ex-
pressed their pleasure in meeting with Primary
Associations.
	Prest. Annie K. Smoot thought the time
had been well spent; endorsed the remarks of
the sisters; prayed God to bless all the children
and all those interested in the Primary Asso-
ciations.
	Meeting adjourned for six months; Singing,
"Good night Chrous;" Benediction by Sister
Mary Duke.
	MARY STEWART, Sec.,
	GRACE SMITH, Asst. Sec.

