BORN AGAIN.

	We learn from our Savior's remarks to Nico-
demus, upon the importance of baptism. As
written, John iii; 6-7, Jesus said to him, "That
which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that
which is born of the spirit is spirit." 7th verse:
"Marvel not that I say unto thee, ye must be
born again."
	Looking at the subject in the true sense of the
word, how readily we can understand the reason
that the human family, in their natural state,
cannot comprehend the designs and purposes of
our Great Law-giver, the Savior of the world.
We can understand what tender care an infant
must have who has been born into this world—
without this care its faculties could not be
properly developed; but with it how soon you
see the fruits of your labor. Even while it is
fed upon milk it is susceptible of joy and sorrow.
At an early date it will laugh; and is always
ready to cry if hurt in the least. But with love
and tender care it will grow like a thrifty plant,
and eventually become like a sturdy oak of the
forest.
	Now, if that which is born of the flesh can
arrive at the perfection of manhood in so short 
a time, what might that which is born of spirit
do, providing it had the same tender care. I
often think this life seems to be a school. Our
Father sent us here:  we knew nothing when we
arrived. Our first lessons were gained from ob-
servation, and lovingly we were taught to lisp
the name of our parents, until we could not bear
to let them leave us, save as our attention was
taken by some other object. This shows how
ready we are to learn our lessons from objects,
and especially those that gratify and please the 
eye.
	We soon learn that we are surrounded by two


nfluences or teachers.  Now, since that which
is born of the flesh is flesh, and that born of the
spirit is spirit, what will be the result?  Well,
since all are born of the flesh, this being accom-
plished, what is the next lesson.  One teacher
tells us this is a fallen world and there are many
dangers to meet.  The wisest course to pursue
is to listen to those who by age and experience
have become acquanted with its dangerous pit-
falls and calamities.  We tremble to learn this.
The other teacher says this is a delightful world,
and the best thing is to enjoy it and throw aside
all fear.  This is quite pleasant news, and per-
haps we summon up the courage to try it.  Well,
now we learn our lessons by experience--it is not
necessary to tell how.  One class of society learn 
that to be truly happy you must be truly good.
This will lift and qualify you to fill places of 
trust, both in this world and the next, for our
term of school will soon close, and our Father
will call us home to give an account of how we
have improved and what advantage we have
gained while a sojourner here.
     We are also told that there has been a teacher
here, even the Son of God, who left rules, which,
if we live by them, will save us from ruin and
disgrace, and prepare us to come again into our
Father's presence.
     The other teacher says these rules are the
most dangerous of all, because He became a 
sacrifice for sin, and He requires all who listen
to Him to make sacrifices also.  Yes, to those
who love the world, and cannot get enough of
this world's goods, it would be a great sacrifice
to love their neighbors as themselves, "and do
good to those who hate, and to pray for those
who dispitefully use and persecute you."  No,
they could not do it, because it is only those
who are born of water and the spirit who can
have faith in these words.
     The question arises:  Now, after being born of
water and the spirit, how can we nourish and
cherish, or in other words, develop this spirit
until we are perfected by its influence?  The
Savior said:  "If ye keep my words as I have
kept my Father's words, ye shall be heirs and
joint heirs with Jesus Christ."
     St. John says, in his first epistle, iii; 20[-]30,
"Beloved:  now we are the sons of God, and it
doth not yet appear what we shall be; but we
know that when He shall appear we shall be 
like Him, for we shall see Him as He is; and
every man that hath this hope in him purifieth
himself, even as He is pure."
     How thankful we should be that the Lord has
again sent a prophet to prepare His way before
Him, even as John the Baptist was sent to pre-
pare His way the first time He made His ap-
pearance upon this earth.  But in His tender
mercy He sent again to show us that no one did
see or know what we were in the sight of God
our Father.  Truly we had the written word of
God, but who understood it, or kept His laws
perfectly, as they must be kept, to be ready to
meet the Savior when He comes again to earth?
Yes, there must and will be such a people, for
Jesus said, "My sheep know my voice and will
follow me."  The Lord said unto Moses, Leviti-
cus xix; 2, "Speak unto all the congregation of 
the children of Israel, and say unto them: ye
shall be holy, for I, the Lord your God, am
holy."  And Peter says in His first epistle, i;
15-16, "But as He which has called you is holy
in all manner of conversation, because it is
written, be ye holy, for I am holy."  And the
savior says, Matthew v; 48, "Be ye perfect,
even as your Father which is in heaven is per-
fect."
     Do you ask why all those sayings?  Remem-
ber St. John's epistle shows:  if ye are not holy
as He is holy and perfect, ye will not be like

[column 2]
Him, for no one can enjoy His glory without
possessing His perfections and holiness.
     This is the object and aim of our people, as
taught us by the prophet, yet we are called to
make sacrifices from time to time.  This proves
what spirit we cultivate, for we cannot serve
two masters; in trying to do this how many
stumble and fall.  The Savior said, Matthew
vi; 24, "No man can serve two masters: for
either he will hate the one and love the other;
or else he will hold to the one and despise the
other.  Ye cannot serve God and mammon."
Those are the words of the Son of God.  Our
Father sent them to be taught to all who would
listen and obey.  A free will offering to all.
None are compelled to come, for the Savior and
our Father, too, knows full well that those who
will not come to learn of them to-day will even-
tually, either in this world or the next, if they
do not commit the unpardonable sin, see their
error and come and be saved by the plan of re-
demption.  Jesus says after the destroyer has
killed the body this is all that he can do.  He
has no power to lead astray any longer.
     Is it not then most beneficial to study and
practice the rules our Father sent us to live by?
They are as essential as the four fundamental
rules of arithmetic, which, if we know, we can
solve all the problems in the book by the four
fundamental rules.  The same are the rules of
life given by the Savior--they will enable us to 
solve the mystery of godliness.
     Besides this He gives His Spirit to such,
which is the true riches; or the love with which
He loved the world.  The same love with which 
a mother loves her infant child--I mean a good
mother; for all are not good.  Some think it too
much of a task to be taxed with such a burden.
Such cannot know the height and depth of true
affection.
     These are our lessons; but the world say that
Mormon religion is only a farce, gotten up by
Joseph Smith to lead the people astray.  I would
ask, when will the world wake up to reason and
sound sense?
     I would here add, that with this spirit (which
our Savior taught Nicademus that he must pos-
sess before he was fit for the kingdom) we can
even live in plural marriage; because we feel a
confidence in our associates that they cultivate
its pure principles, and are saying to the tempt-
er, "Get behind me, Satan, for I am living for
true principles, as taugth by Jesus our Savior."
With this spirit it is not the same thing at all
which it would be without; with this spirit we
are truly happy under all circumstances, know-
ing this term of school is short at best, and we
are determined to do our best while we sojourn
here.  We feel the smile of an alwise Providence
rests upon us, and we shall hear Him say, "Well
done good and faithful servant," etc.  But let
the tempter come in and listen to him for an
hour and you are filled with hatred and disgust,
and sometimes with revenge, and ask, "Is this
the bottomless pit?"  If there is such a place.
If there is I think we make it when we do not
obey the God of heaven.  By doing this we 
learn the good and the evil, as our mother Eve
designed we should.  The evil is always appar-
ent; let us, then learn something of the good
before we are called home to give an account of
how we spent our time upon this earth.  Do
not be like the boy who, upon being asked what
he was doing in school, replied, "I wait for school
to be out.
     Look at those whose education and refine-
ment taught them to ignore the laws of God as
given in the Garden of Eden, because it brought
them on a level with the animals.  To-day the 
French nation will give a reward to those
who raise families.  Did not God our Father
foresee all this, and much more which will

[column 3]
come to pass in the own due time of the Lord?
I do not think our Government could afford to
give permiums to those who raise families here,
should they feel inclined to do so.  I motion
they give them to those parents who take par-
ticular pains to teach their children purity of
heart, uprightness, integrity and truth.  When
this is taugth, both by precept and example,
there is an effect produced which will show itself
either in this world or the next, for we must live
for both.
     Let us then be of that number who, when his
Lord cometh, shall be found watching, is the
prayer of 
Your sister in the Gospel,
MARY ELLEN KIMBALL.
Feb. 22, 1885.


