	UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of Utah Stake, held in the meeting
house. Provo City, February 27th, 1885, Presi-
dent Mary John presiding. Counselors Rhodo
Lyman and Emily G. Cluff were present, alsa
Sisters E. R. S. Smith and Lucy W. Kimball.
Opened with singing and prayer, reading of
minutes of former conference, and also statisti-
cal and financial reports of the county.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith the first speaker, said
she was pleased to behold the faces of the sis-
ters of Utah County; was interested in hearing
the reports. The labors of the sisters are as-
tonishing. and the amount of money they han-
dle. We are persecuted, but we are not
alarmed; we have been through persecution be-
fore; we are used to it. There is no justice for
us. Satan is trying to destroy the government
of God from off the earth; he knows his time
is short. We are in a school, being educated 
for the presence of the Lord. We need to ex-


amine ourselves, to see if we are obeying all
the commands of God.  If we wish to be
crowned we must be faithful.  I had rather
my life would be taken than deny one princi-
ple of our faith.  I feel to bless you, for you
are blessed.
  After singing, and benediction by Sister Ly-
man, conference adjourned till 2 p.m.
  Afternoon.  Conference opened with the
usual exercises of singing and prayer.
  Sister Emily G. Cluff made a few remarks,
and was followed by Sister L. W. Kimball,
who said she would much rather listen than
speak, but felt to respond to every call.  If we
did not know that God was at the helm we
would feel discouraged.  I feel the loss of our
beloved president, Ma Smoot, her genial smile,
her kiss of welcome.  But the Lord is just as
able to endow Sister John, and she has borne
the burden alone for a long time.  I pray the
Lord to bless each and every one with His
Spirit.
  Sisters Tanner and Bringhurst followed with
remarks appropriate for the occasion, and they
were followed by Mother Duke, saying, it is a
pleasure, my sisters, to behold your faces once
more; my soul rejoices.  Spoke of attending
the young people's conference; said the Lord
was working with them.  Reviewed our posi-
tion at Nauvoo, of the grief of the saints at
the death of the Prophet and Patriarch; of our
being driven from our homes, but said we
were in the hands of our Father; they can only
kill the body.  This may be the last time that
I shall meet with you, but if so, all is right. I
am in the hands of Father.
 Sister Snow Smith said, When we arise to
speak we need not say we feel weak, it is nat-
ural; we should not boast of our strength.
These Societies will be glorious.  We stand as
helpmeets to the Priesthood.  What sort of
people should we be?  At the head of all wo-
mankind; it is enough to humble us to the
earth.  I feel as though I wanted to bow at
the feet of the Savior.  I feel to mourn over a
sister that goes astray, and I ask God to shield
me from every spirit except the Spirit of God.
The hand of the Lord is apparent in these per-
secutions and He will overrule them for our
good; our greatest trials often become our
greatest blessings.  Let us pray without ceas-
ing, we can lift up our hearts to Him in prayer
while at work.  We want to educate our chil-
dren spiritually, mentally and morally, that
they may become men and women of God, etc.
  Sister Lyman made a few remarks, then Br.
John said, I can truly say that I have been
pleased with the remarks of our aged sisters.
Said we should never cease to learn, but keep
on progressing.  Let us keep our covenants.
We do not know how long the Lord will suffer
this cloud to hang over us; but there is light
beyond the clouds.  The city of Enoch was
composed of those of one heart and mind, and
we cannot be like them until we are more uni-
ted.  The devil is raging because we are trying
to build up the kingdom of God.  Be firm; we
will not give up one principle of our faith. We
are in the hands of our Father.
  Choir sang, "How firm a foundation, ye
saints of the Lord."  Conference adjourned
for three months.  Benediction by Prest.
David John.
