A PRAYER FOR ZION.
Here on this humble mount, my God, to Thee
In humble, fervent prayer we bow the knee
To plead for Zion, bending ’neath the rod
In bondage on Thine own and freedom's sod.

The storm-clouds now doth spread this fair land o’er,
And lightning flash around from shore to shore;
In this dark hour we come, our God and friend,
To Thee, Thou canst with tempests, blessings blend.

We know the gold must be well purified;
We know the tares together Thou wilt bind.
O, give us now Thy Spirit’s strengthening power,
That we may truly stand the trial hour.

Forgive the follies of each passing day,
And help us now to put all sin away,
That nearer we may come, our God, to Thee,
Praying the time is near when Zion shall be free,

Her sons go forth from out the prison wall,
Proclaiming peace and liberty to all,
Bearing glad tidings of the Joys to come,
When all Thy chosen ones are gathered home.

Now for our leaders do we pray to Thee,
Even Thine own anointed, chosen Three
O, may their lives be precious in Thy sight,
For faithful do they stand for Thee and right.

They are tried and proven, even seven times;
They have testified of Thee in many climes:
Now in this hour, O Father, guard them well,
And from ten thousand hearts glad praise shall swell.

For Thine Apostles, messengers of life
To nations withering in sin and strife,
Yearning to save would they but heed the voice
Of truth and in Thy love rejoice.

Their words more precious far than glittering gold,
The hearts they touch not, must indeed be cold,
Where’er, their lot be cast on sea or land,
May they e’er have Thy power and guiding hand.

We pray for all now scorned for Thee and Thine
Appointed laws, most sacred and divine;
Be Thou their help in every time of need,
And with the bread of life Thy children feed.

Oh, may our prayer, O God, to Thee ascend,
And with the voices of the angels blend;
And may “Thy Kingdom come, Thy will be done,”
When Christ and all Thy saints shall be as one.
									HOPE.
Tempe, Feb. 24, 1885.


