THE TWO FAMILIES
	First, the Patriarchal father returns home
from work, or a long absence, and finds his
family well, happy and glad to meet him; he is
also happy, receiving their kind welcomings
home.  Now we will see them at the dinner
table-mothers father and children all surround-
ing the table with smilling faces;  he willingly
acknowledging the claims of all alike and
providing for each one equally, and loving each
child with the same fatherly love.  What harm
is there in this?
	Now think of a Gentile family, such as I have
positively known.  Think first of a bright home
of a newly married couple.  Two or three years
of happiness, love and enjoyment pass away;
a loving wife, always trusting in her husband's
love and faithfulness to her, always believing
and trusting every word that her husband
speaks, disdaining the very thoughts of any-
thing distrustful of him.  Time wears on.  Now
there comes troubles and trials one after another.
First he is absent in the evenings.  She waits
long for him.  Many lonely hours are spent
waiting for him.  When he returns and is asked,


"Why are you so late?" he answer, "Nothing
at all, dear, but I was detained on business"
	Time [---] passed on.  She still believes his
words to be true.  Night after night it is the
same until she gets weary of waiting in vain;
when suddenly it is whispered round of suspi-
cions that something was not right T[---]
reaches her ear.  She cannot; she will not be-
lieve her husband is false, until sorrow, remorse
and shame enters her home.  Finally the door
ball is rung; a young lady enters bearing a child
in her arms, and asking for mercy and shelter,
claiming this man, her husband, as the child's
father. Then the wife that has been so loving,
so kind and so good falls back in despair and
grief, her heart overflowing until she can con-
tain it no longer.  She calls to her husband to
find out the truth and he must acknowledge
his wrong. There is a broken-hearted wife, a
disgraced maiden and a desolate home.
     Looking at the two pictures, one keeping the
law of God as Abraham, Isaac and Jacob did,
the other transgressing all law, and plunging a
trusting wife and unsuspecting maiden into ut-
terdespair, himself a disgrace to allmanhood,
and percahnce the cause of[--]untimely death
to one [---] of those whose hearts [--]
broken [---]


[Column 1]
LAW—WHAT IS LAW AND WHAT
