	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

	Continued.
	“I pray God in the name of Jesus that you
all may be kept in the faith unto the end, let
your sufferings be what they may; it is better in
the eyes of the Lord that you should die than
that you should give up the land of Zion, the
inheritance which you have purchased with
your monies; for every man that giveth not up
his inheritance, though he should die, yet when
the Lord shall come he shall stand upon it, and
with Job in his flesh he shall see God.  There-
fore this is my counsel, that you retain your
lands, even unto the uttermost, and seek, re-
dress of your enemies, etc.  And pray to God

[Column 2]
day and night to return you in peace and
safety to the lands of your inheritances.  And
when the judge fails you, appeal unto the
executive; and when the executive fails you,
appeal unto the President; and when the Presi-
dents fails you, and all laws fail you, and all
things else fail you but God above, and you
continue to weary Him with your importun- 
ings, as the poor woman did the unjust judge, 
He will not fail to execute judgment upon
your enemies and to avenge His own elect that
cry unto Him day and night.
	“Behold, He will not fail you!  He will
come with ten thousand of His saints and all
of His adversaries shall be destroyed with the
breath of His lips!  All those who keep their
inheritances, notwithstanding they should be
beaten and driven, shall be likened unto the
wise virgins who took oil in their lamps. But
all those who are unbelieving and fearful will
be likened unto the foolish virgins who took
no oil in their lamps: and when they shall re-
turn and say unto the saints give us of your
lands, behold, there will be no room found for
them.
	“Now hear the prayer of your unworthy
brother in the new and everlasting covenant:  O
my God!  Thou who hast called and chosen a
few, through Thy weak instruments, by com-
mandment, and sent them to Missouri, a place
which Thou didst call Zion, and commanded
Thy servants to consecrate it unto Thyself for
a place of refuge and safety for the gathering
of Thy saints, to be built up a holy city unto
Thyself; and as Thou hast said that no other
place should be appointed like unto this; there-
fore, I ask Thee, in the name of Jesus Christ,
to return Thy people unto their houses, and
their inheritance, to enjoy the fruits of their
labors; that all the waste places may be built
up; that all the enemies of Thy people, who
will not repent and turn unto Thee, be de-
stroyed from off the face of the land; and let
a house be built and established unto Thy
name; and let all the losses that Thy people
have sustained be rewarded unto them, even
more than fourfold, that the herders of Zion
be enlarged forever, and let her be established
no more to be thrown down; and let all Thy
saints when they are scattered like sheep and
are persecuted, flee unto Zion and be estab-
lished in the midst of her, and let her be or-
ganized according to the laws, and let this
prayer ever be recorded before Thy face.  Give
Thy Holy Spirit unto my brethren unto whom
I write; send Thy angels to guard them, and
when they turn their faces toward Zion and
bow before Thee and pray, may their sins never
come up before Thy face, neither have place in
the book of Thy remembrance, and may they
depart from all their iniquities.  Provide food
for them as Thou dost for the raven; provide
clothing for their nakedness, and houses that
they may dwell therein give unto them friends
in abundance, and let their names be recorded
in the Lamb’s Book of Life eternally before
Thy face. Amen.
	“Finally, brethren, the grace of our Lord
Jesus Christ be with you all until His coming
and Kingdom. Amen.
	“JOSEPH SMITH, Jun.” 
	The following is an extract from a letter
written from Clay Co., Missouri, Dec. 15, 1833,
by Elder Phelps to the Prophet:
	“The situation of the saints as scattered is
dubious and affords a gloomy prospect.  No
regular order can be enforced nor any usual
discipline kept.  Among the wicked world, yea, 
the most wicked part of it, some commit one
sin and some another, (I speak of the rebel-
lious;for there are saints that are as immovable
as the everlasting hills)  and what can be done?
We are in Clay, Ray, Lafayette, Jackson,Van
Buren Counties, and cannot hear from each
other oftener than we do from you.  I know it
was right that we should be driven out of the

[Column 3]
land of Zion that the rebellious might be sent
away.  But, brethren, if the Lord will, I should
like to know what the honest in heart shall do?
Our clothes are worn out, we want the neces-
saries of life, and shall we lease, buy, or other-
wise obtain land where we are to till that we
may raise enough to eat?  Such is the common
language of the honest, for they want to do
the will of God.
	“I am sensible that we shall not live again
in Zion till God or the President rules out the
mob.		
	“The Governor is willing to restore u[-] but
as the Constitution gives him no power to
guard us when back, we are not willing to go.
The mob swear if we come we shall die!  If
from what has been done in Zion, we, or the
most of us have got to be persecuted from city
to city, from synagogue to synagogue we want
to know it!  for there are among us some that
would rather earn eternal life on such condi-
tions than lose it; but we hope for better things
and shall wait patiently for the word of the
Lord. Our people fare very well, and when
they are discreet little or no persecution is
felt."
	On the 16th of Dec. 1833, the Prophet
Joseph Smith received the following revelation
concerning Zion: “Verily, I say unto you con-
cerning your brethren who have beep afflicted
and persecuted,and cast out of the land of their
inheritance, I, the Lord, have suffered the afflic-
tion to come upon them wherewith they have
been afflicted, in consequence of their trans-
gressions; yet I will own them and they shall
be mine in that day when I shall come to make
up my jewels.  Therefore, they must need be
chastened and tried, even as Abraham, who
was commanded to offer up his only son; for all
those who will not endure chastening, but deny
me, cannot be sanctified.
	“Behold, I say unto you, there were jarrings
and contentions, and envyings, and strife, and
lustful and covetons desires among them; there-
fore by these things they polluted thieir inheri-
tances.  They were slow to hearken unto the
voice of the Lord their God; therefore the Lord
their God is slow to hearken unto their prayers
to answer them in the day of their trouble.  In
the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my
counsel, but in the day of their trouble, of ne-
cessity, they feel after me.	
	“Verily, I say unto you, notwithstariding
their sins my bowels are filled with compassion
toward them.  I will not utterly cast them off,
and in the day of wrath I will remember mer-
cy.  I have sworn and the decree hath gone
forth by a former commandment which I have
given unto you, that I would let fall the sword
of my indignation in behalf my of people;  and
even as I have said it shall come to pass.  My
indignation is soon to be poured out without
measure upon all nations, and this will I do
when the cup of their iniquity is full.  And in
that day all who are found upon the watch-
tower, or in other words, all my Israel, shall be
saved.  And they that have been scattered
shall be gathered, and all they who have given
their lives for my sake shall be crowned.
	“Therefore let your hearts be comforted con-
cerning Zion, for all flesh is in my hands; be
still, and know that I am God.  Zion shall
riot be moved out of her place, notwithstand-
ing her children are scattered, they shall re-
turn And come to their inheritance, they and
their children, with songs of everlasting joy,
to build up the waste places of Zion; and all
these things that the Prophets might be ful-
filled.


Mary Somerville lived to be ninety-two, and
Caroline Herschel to be ninety eight. Astro-
nomical studies do not seem to impair the 
health of women. May Maria Mitchel live
 o be as old as her illustrious predecessors!


