	MORGAN STAKE.
	The Semi-annual Conference of the Relief
Society of Morgan Stake of Zion convened at
the South Morgan school house Jan. 21st,1885,
Mrs. Lydia Rich presiding. Service commenced
by singing, "Sweet is the work, my God, etc.;"
prayer by  Mrs. Ann Fry; singing, “Now let us
rejoice in the day of salvation.” Minutes of
previous conference read and accepted, also
statistical and financial reports of the eight or
nine branches of Morgan Stake, which showed
that the good sisters of Morgan have not slack-
ened in their efforts to do good and provide
for the wants of the needy.
	Coun. Martha Tonks spoke of the duties of
the R. S., and the necessity of all being con-
stantly on their guard les[-] they be overcome by
temptation. Admonished mothers to be punc-

[Column 3]
tual in sending their children to their meet-
ings.
	Mrs. Susannah Heiner, Prest of Y. L. M. I.
A., and Mrs. H. M. Thackeray bore testimony
to the truth of the Gospel and made some ex-
cellent remarks.
	Morning session closed by singing “Praise to
the man, etc.', Benediction by Prest. Sarah
Florence.	
	At 2 p.m. the conference again convened.
Opened by singing, "Great God attend while
Zion sings;" prayer by Prest. Fannie Taggar:;
singing, “May we who know the joyful sound.”
Prests. of branches then gave verbal reports of
their societies, after which Prest. W. G. Smith
made some very interesting and encouraging
remarks; spoke of the great blessings the Lord
has to bestow upon His saints if they will only
prepare themselves to receive them, he thought
the Lord was now blessing us all He could con-
sistently.
	Prest. Rich said she was much pleased with
the remarks made, and also the reports given.
Said there were many very good faithful sisters
here in this stake who are always at their
meetings, she always saw them when visiting
the branches and they were always on hand to
do all the good they could; she felt that the
Lord would bless and reward them for their
faithfulness. Urged the sisters to diligence
and punctuality in attending meetings and
other duties. Said it seems as though the
Lord blesses and multiplies the little means
donated to the Relief Society and they always
have somethiug to do good with, and so it will
always be if we are faithful. She felt to re-
member and sympathize with her sisters who
are so much tried in consequence of the per-
secutions of our enemies. Exhorted her sisters
to sustain each other and the Priesthood, teach
their children the principles of the Gospel, and
be saints at the fireside as well as elsewhere. 
	Mrs. Harriet Welsh, Prest. of Primary,made
some interesting remarks upon the duties of
wives and mothers, and the necessity of being
faithful; urged the sisters to send their children
to Primary meetings; said the associations were
organized to assist mothers in bringing up their
children.
	Mrs. H. C. Smith said that although there
had been great improvements made by the sec-
taries in getting up their statistical and finan-
cial reports, there was still room for improve-
ment, and thought it very important to have
them correct. Said this life is a school in
which we may learn by our own and each
others’exper[-]ence; bore testimony to the truth
of the work in which we are engaged, and
urged the sisters not to be discouraged in well-
doing but continue faithful to the end.
	Choir sang "Lord, dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing” Conference adjourned for three months.
benediction by Coun. M. A. Simmons. 

