TO THE YOUNG GIRLS.

	I love particularly to address myself to the
young girls, the sweet, fair daughters of Zion.
I wish to ask you, my young sisters, whether
you realize fully the blessings that surround
you and the importance of your mission here
upon the earth.
	Many of you have arrived at the age that
most girls are when they begin to think of
marrying, and many of you, without doubt,
have thought much on this subject, and serious-
ly, too; it is your duty to think about it.
	Marriage is one of the most important steps
a woman has to take in life, and she should
not seek to enter into this covenant without
first seeking the aid of her Heavenly Father
to guide her in her choice of a husband. More
than those of any other people in the world
should the women of Zion seek for the guid-
ance of their Father in this all-important step.
	You are the daughters of those who have
covenanted with the Lord to help to build up
His Church in righteousness, and you are heirs
by right to every privilege the Gospel of Christ
gives to man; and one of the sweetest and most
glorious blessings given us is the privilege we
have of being led by His Holy Spirit in all
that we do.
	We are told by the ancient prophet that at
the time of the coming of the Savior, it would
be with the people as it was in the days of
Noah, they would be marrying and giving
themselves in marriage. Now, the people for
generations have been doing this thing, which
is a sin before the Lord, or the prophet would
not have included it among the sins he names
that men would be committing in the latter
days.
	Then we want to be careful that we do not
give ourselves in marriage, for our Heavenly
Father, you see, forbids us to do this thing.
He is the one who should give His children in
marriage, and He will do this if we seek Him
for this favor.
	We are here to do our Father's work, to
raise up a people for Him especially; then how
necessary that He should dictate us in these
matters, and how necessary it is that we come
before Him and in humility ask His guidance
in this all-important step, the choice of a com-
panion, as well as in every other act of our
lives.
	We are our Father's, and our work is His.
The spirits that are entrusted to our care as
children, are His; they are only given to our
charge for a season; we are entrusted with the
noble mission of giving them bodies that they
may enter the school of experience on this
earth, and as they are wholly our Father's, how
proper and how right it seems that He should
direct through what lineage they should be
born.
	These are trying times for those who are de-
sirous to assist in building up the Church of
God by practicing the heavenly order of mar-
riage, and only those who have the Spirit of
the Lord to guide them will be able to stand
the test. In these times we should draw nigh
unto God with humbleness of heart if we would
have His guidance and protection; when we
know we have His approbation, then in equal
strength can we meet the attacks of the enemy
of righteousness.
	The Lord has called upon all who desire sal-
vation to come out from the midst of Babylon
and withdraw themselves from the ungodly and
the contaminations of the wicked. He com-
manded them to gather to these Rocky Moun-
tains that they might escape the plagues that
would fall upon the wicked and corrupt na-
tions. Another object also He had in view in
bringing His people to this asylum-- it was
that they, untrammeled by the traditions and
evils that envelop the world in a cloud of dark-
ness, might learn of His laws and be taught
His ways. Here they are taught how to purify
their hearts, their minds, and their bodies; the
latter He requires them to make pure that
they may be able to produce tabernacles that
will be fit receptacles for those noble spirits
which are to form a branch that will in
strength and purity be able to cope with Satan
and bear off God's Kingdom in righteousness.
	As I said, my young sisters, you are the
daughters of those who have obeyed this com-
mand to gather to these mountains; those who
have not only covenanted with the Lord to do
His will, but have fulfilled these covenants.
The Lord has now set to work to raise up that
righteous branch spoken of in the Book of
Mormon, therefore He has commanded His
people, and you are destined to become the
mothers of this great race of which I have just
spoken; therefore it is of the utmost importance
that you be guided by the Spirit of God in the
choice of one who shall be the father of the
bodies in which these spirits are tabernacled.
	Satan, anticipating the design of the Al-
mighty in this great work, has sought to frus-
trate these designs--he stalks abroad in the
nations, planting the seeds of evil in every
spot in the soil of human nature that will re-
ceive it; he says to man, "prostitute the woman,
destroy your manhood, seek for gold and riches
out of the earth and invest it in armies and
navies, and raise a carnival of blood and death,
invent infernal machines to hasten the depop-
ulation of the world." And man has listened
to his teachings. To the woman he said, "de-
stroy your offspring, make barren the fruitful-
ness of your womb, that thus coming forth
from the spirit world may cease; lay your vir-
tue at the feet of man and assist him in help-
ing me in this great scheme of mine," which
is to prevent the birth of those mighty spirits
which are to come forth in this dispensation to
enlist in the great struggle between truth and
error.
	Such great power has Satan over the hearts
of the people, that all and more than I have
mentioned of evil has been done. Woman
has destroyed and is destroying her offspring,
even before it is permitted to take its first
breath in this world; she has cast aside her
virtue and prostrated herself before the man;
and he, apparently, has lost sight of the exalt-
ed pillar upon which woman should sit, and he
smiles upon her debasement and descends to
bask in the pleasure of sin with the wanton
and the harlot. The power of Satan has such
possession of his soul that he cares nothing for
posterity, he avoids the responsibility that a
family would bring upon him and is deter-
mined to not marry while woman will yield
to him a satisfaction of the desires with which
Satan fills his heart; he cares nothing for her
honor and integrity, he would much rather
make her a prostitute than make her a wife;
or if he marries her he would rather prevail
upon the wife to prevent the birth of children
than be at the expense of supporting them.
	Has the Lord forgotten His children? Has
He no remedy for this prevailing evil? Will
His pure eyes look upon the degradation of
His daughters by those who boast that they
bear His image, yet have forsaken Him and
are ashamed of His laws and turned from them
and taken sides with him who is the prince of
evil, and not extend to them the hand that is
continually stretched  toward His own? I
think not. Among the sons of men are yet a
few, and they are indeed a very few compared
with the multitude of a nation, from whom a
love of righteousness has not departed, and
who still respect the virtue of woman and
honor the marriage rite by fulfilling the design
of the Almighty in bringing man and woman
upon this earth.
	With these few but tried and faithful ser-
vants He is doing a mighty work in the na-
tions, and through the principles given for
their guidance woman may arise and shake 
herself from the dust and cast off the
chains by which she is bound and stand in
honored equality with man, and by no other
means under heaven can she do it.
	The Lord has given unto these servants of
His a commandment to marry, honor, and pro-


tect those of His daughters who are desirous
to be freed from the bondage of sin, and by
them to raise up a people unto Him who will
fear and serve Him; and these noble women of
Zion who subscribe to these laws are destined
to become the mothers of this mighty and no
ble race; they will be the mothers of rulers,
governors, judges and law-givers, for out of
Zion will go the law-givers and-rulers to-gov
ern the nations.
	The emissaries of Satan have for years been
trying to decoy the women of Zion from this
work; they cry out “shame” to them because
they endure the "degradation” of polygamy,
and try to make them believe there is danger
in it; when persuasion fails they try to force
them from it, they take from them their liber-
ty, they drag them into court and there they
insult them with impunity; they throw their
husband's and sons, those men who are stand-
ing forth in mighty strength in the defense of
the rights of women by marrying them into
jail, and they are so zealous in this heinous la-
bor that they are tearing down the government
to deprive them of the right to do this thing
But will they do it? No; not while woman
values her chastity and desires to lead a pure
life they will never do away with the principle
of plurality of wives. While we remain pure
in our worship the Lord will pr[-]tect us in this
practice and no more will He permit the'cha
tity of women to be trodden down. 
	The time will come when not only will the
name of Joseph Smith be honored and revered
by the women of the nations for establishing
and putting into practice this principle for
their salvation, but also the names of those no-
ble women who were the early advocates of it
and laid aside their traditions and love of the
world to adopt and put it into practice for the
sake of their race and for the rearing of a pep-
ple for God, be had in honored remembrance,
and they will be known throughout all timp as
benefactors of their kind. 
	The time has come when the women of Zion
should live near to their God and depend en-
tirely upon Him for their strength and guid-
ance. Satan is determined that they shall hot
live and act in favor of this work of the Al-
mlghly if he can prevent it, and lie will try
every plan to hinder, them from assisting in
rearing this people of God. It is the glorious
privilege of every woman in Israel to have the
guidance of her Heavenly Father and His
Spirit to strengthen her at all times; with this
sweet comforter she is able to pass through
every earthly trial,and though she may be the
first wife of a man, or a second, or even the
tenth wife,if she knows that God not only sanc-
tions her marriage with that man,but has actu-
ally appointed or chosen him to be her hus-
band, a prison bed cannot seem hard, or the
insolence of courts make her falter, but she
will be able to bear these persecutions bravely,
because she knows that God is her friend and
that she is doing rights                           Mc.


