	EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE managers of the Deseret Hospital wish
to express their gratitude to S. P. Teasdel Esq.,
the genial and gentlemanly proprietor of the
Eagle House in this city, for a pair of handsome
lace curtains and thirty-three yards of carpet,
donated to that institution. Possibly there are
others who may follow this good example, re-
membering that the liberal man deviseth liberal
things and by his liberality he shall live, and
also "he that giveth to the poor lendeth to the
Lord."
	WE attended the Relief Society Conference in
the Ogden Tabernacle, Thursday, March 12th,
Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding, aided by her
Counselor, H. C. Brown. On the stand were
Prest. Eliza R. S. Smith, Coun. Middleton, of
Weber Stake, and several Bishops and Presi-
dents of the branches of Relief Society in that
county. There was a good attendance, and the
reports from the several wards were good, show-
ing each society to be in a flourishing condition.
The address of Sister Eliza in the morning was
something to be remembered, both for the excel-
lent instruction it contained and the powerful
manner in which it was delivered. Minutes of
the Conference will appear in our next.
	ON Saturday, March 7th, a number of ladies,
intimate friends of Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, met
at her residence in the 13th Ward, it being the
anniversary of the lady's birthday. The time
was spent in social converse, supper being an-
nounced at six p.m., when the guests repaired
to the residence of Apostle H. J. Grant, where a
sumptuous repast had been prepared for the oc-
casion. The table was handsomely set out, and
the viands were delicious. Mrs. Lucy Grant,
the amiable hostess, and her sisters, Mrs. Julia
Woolley, with Miss Maggies Ivins assisting,
waited upon the ladies in the most charming
manner, and everyone seemed to thoroughly en-
joy themselves. About ten o'clock the party
broke up. Many good wishes were expressed
for the lady, who is a great favorite with her
friends. May she live to enjoy many more
years of prosperity and happiness.
	ON Tuesday evenings, March 10th, we had the
pleasure of attending, by invitation, the Young
Ladies' Meeting in the 20th Ward, Mrs. Lula
Greene Richards presiding; her Counselors, Mrs.
Annie G. Sharp and Mrs. Elizabeth Stayner
were also present. After singing prayer was of-
fered by Elder Wm. Willis. Then singing again.
Minutes of previous meeting were read and ap-
proved, after which the roll was called by the
secretary, and many of the young ladies re-
sponded with a proverb or passage from Scrip-
ture, which was quite interesting. The pro-
gramme, which had been prepared for the even-

[Column 2]
ing consisted of songs, organ solo, readings and
recitations, all well rendered by the members.
Afterwards the meeting was addressed by Sisters
M. I. Horne, E. R. S. Smith, E. B. Wells and
L. G. Richards. Coun. E. Stayner then asked
the young ladies who had kept the resolution
given at the last meeting to rise up; quite a
large number responded. President Richards
proposed as all had not kept it to have the same
resolution for the next meeting, which was de-
cided upon. The resolution was to be punctual
at the hour of meeting. Programme for next
meeting was read and meeting adjourned, and
after singing the benediction was pronounced by
Miss Celia Sharp.
	AT three o'clock on Monday, March 9th, a
group of ladies met at the residence of Apostle
Wilford Woodruff in honor of his wife, Sister
Phebe C. Woodruff, who, on the 8th of March,
attained to the age of 78 years. Sister Woodruff
had recently resigned her position as President
of the teachers of the Relief Society of the 15th
Ward, and the officers and members of that or-
ganization, wishing to recognize their apprecia-
tion of her valuable services, while she had
officiated in that capacity, tendered to her this
surprise, and presented her with a large and ele-
gant album. The afternoon was spent in the
most happy manner in social conversation and
remarks from several of the ladies including
Sister Woodruff herself, and her venerable sis-
ter, Sister Foss, who is now eighty-four years
old; Sister Woodruff is now seventy-eight and
bears her honors well. She is a new England
woman, from the State of Maine, one of the old
Puritan stock that "wears well", and may live
many more years. We ardently hope she may
live until she is satisfied with life and has filled
her mission here, and is prepared to enter into
the fulness of rest prepared for the faithful
Saints of God.


