	THE NEW ADMINISTRATION.

	The event that ushered in the Democratic
President is now passed; the nation awaited it
with anxious expectancy, many fearing that
after all there would be disturbance or disap-
pointment, but neither transpired, and Presi-
dent Cleveland was duly inagurated on the 4th
of March, and is now installed at the White
House with all due ceremony and state. What
sort of  administration it will be is yet to be
proven. The Democratic party are fully confident
that the government of this great nation will
be safe in his hands, that he is wise, judicious
and clever, and the wheels of state will soon
roll evenly along, and the country grow more
prosperous under the new administration.
	It may be so, and one cannot help hoping
against hope, that the Democrats are right in
their calculations, but the unsettled condition
of all nations at the present time certainly tends
to weaken confidence in the validity of any one
government, however propitious the outward
seeming may appear. There was no rejoicing
here on the day of the election, notwithstaning
the rumors circulating around to the effect that
there was quite a hurrah among the "Mormons,"
everybody seemed quite equal to the momentous
occasion and went on with their work as though
it was an every day affair.
	The republican party, much as they despise
the Democratic principles, are quite exultant
because President Cleveland mentioned in his
message to the people of these United States
that polygamy should be repressed. Let them
rejoice, the Saints can well afford it; they are
not looking for favors from either party, and
therefore cannot be greatly disappointed. It was
without any help or aid from the United States
government that the "Mormons" planted the
flag of their country in the vales of the Rocky
Mountains; they drove their own teams, made
their own roads and bridges, and pioneered their
own way through with poverty and privation
staring them in the face.
	They have made these mountain fastnesses
habitable, and the stranger, whether Jew or
Gentile, has been entertained within their gates.
Presuming upon the freedom extended to all, of
whatever creed or nationality, wicked and de-
signing men have sought to establish themselves
in the midst of an innocent and unoffending
people, and have, by political chicanery and in-
trigue, made a stepping stone of honest citizens
to lift themselves to place and power. The du-
plicity and cunning of these office seekers who
have gained a temporary advantage over the
upright and diligent laborer is too thin to cover
their wicked designs, and it cannot much longer
be hidden; but the people of Utah can afford to
wait, positive of the result that will follow. And
notwithstanding all the dark clouds that now
obscure the horizon and cast their gloomy

[Column 2]
shadows over these peaceful and happy vales,
making the situation appear melancholy and
forbidding at the present time, it will only be of
short duration, for so sure as there is a God in
heaven, He will make manifest His power in
the deliverance of His people from the snares
that are now laid to eatrap them, and Israel will
be freed from bondage and the clouds will roll
by and be lost in thin air, and the people will
rejoice and the waste places will continue to
grow fertile and Zion will extend her borders,
and her strength will increase, and no power on
earth can hinder its development.
	The nations of the earth are already strug-
gling with difficulties that will eventually bring
still more serious trouble, and the United States
government will, undoubtedly, yet be glad to call
upon the Rocky Mountain boys to come to its
assistance, and will be proud of those brave and
honest young men whom the masses of the
people now professedly despise.


[Column 1]
