IS IT FOR?

	Law is a code of statutes drawn up and com-
piled judiciously and harmoniously to discrimi-
nate between good and evil, right and wrong;
to punish an offender if he or she has done
wrong, or committed an evil deed.  It was
never intended to wreak its vengeance on a
peacable citizen, who is pursuing a straight-
forward course, attending to his daily avoca-
tions of life, no disturber of the peace, temper-
ate, honest, upright in his dealings, and one
who is working for the public good, and re-
spected by his friends.  Has such a one no
right to dwell peacabley in his own dwelling by
his own fireside?  No right to walk abroad to
attend to the duties that devolve upon him to
maintain and support his family?  Was law
made to dog his footsteps to watch his home
and thrust him into prison?  Has the judici-
ary a right to enact such a law, and send men,
biased in their minds, to administer it, and that,
too, from a distance?  Are they competent to
judge of matters they have had no associa-
tion with, who seek not the welfare of their 
fellow creature, who judges not his merits, or
cares for his worth in the advancement of pub-
lic good? 
	All this his neighbor knows, and has to see
him shackled, and his usefulness brought to a
standstill, because his enemy, a "great-mighty-
republican-dollar-man, has a little authority
invested in him to transact business away from
home—one short month and then his career
comes to an end and he sinks into insignifi-
cance. 
	If this is republicanism I never want its as-
sociations, neither do I want to come in con-
tact with its unjust laws.  My progenitors
made good and wholesome laws, which said
that Congress should make no law to control
our religious rights.  Now these republican
men come here to Utah and dare to tell her en-
lightened people that if they believe what is in
the Bible they cannot have the right of fran-
chise; if our name is registered, if we are ever
so moral, virtuous, and good citizens, and if we
were born in America, and all our ancestors
before us, if we believe the word of God, they
shall not let us have any rights to their law—
one-sided only to condemn—which they have
made expressly for the poor ignorant, cast-off,
brow-beaten believers in the eternal truths,
written for our edification and salvation, which

[Column 2]
we have had the stamina to investigate, and
came out from the dogmas that are now extant
in the civilized world.
	"Now, if you Mormons will be infidels, as
we are, believe in a God that can't see what
you do, and mystify what the true and living
God has said about His servants, the prophets
and His apostles, and the Savior of the world,
then you can be justified by our Republican
law."
	This is Scripture; for all the law is fulfilled
in one word, even in this:  "Thou shalt love
thy neighbor as thyself."  I do not think these
holy (?) men would like to have the same
treatment as they are dealing out to us, if so
let some one go into their homes with a little
galvanized law in their pockets and pick and
pry into their family secrets and accuse them
of crime and call their children bastards.
	We want a local government.  Utah has
wise men, tried and proven.  We solicit no 
distant usurper to set us to rights, by bringing
us into bandage.  We are free born as well as
themselves, and will contend for our rights and
justice.  We have political and religious rights,
and we have been sustained in them by our
own local officers;we do not want men from
abroad to mind our business; we have been
taught to mind it ourselves, and we are quite
competent.  I should think if this people
kne how to locate a great Territory like this,
which has opened up so large an inland traffic,
bringing in resources to the government from
lands that would have lain dormant, and also
mineral wealth, they certainly are competent
of manipulating their own governmental af-
fairs.  Uncle Sam ought to be thankful to this
people, for no other people under the sun would
have settled here;  neither could we if we had
not been sustained and preserved by the out-
stretched arm of the Almighty, and He will
continue His preserving care until His king-
dom is established for ever, and He reigns tri-
umphantly.
	A great hue and cry is raised about bigamy
and polygamy away out here in Utah—a term
I never heard used until the Gentile courts set
here to try such cases.  I consider when a man
marries a wife she is his rightful and lawful
wife.  They twain become one flesh; if he
marries more than one they all  become his
own flesh and blood, and their offspring are
legitimate.  The marriage ceremony is the
same.  They enter into a solemn contract and
are under obligations to each other.
	The Latter-day Saints marry for time and 
all eternity, and that, too, by divine authority
from God;  He commanded them to do so; to
raise up a righteous seed unto Himself.  He
had spirits in reserve to enter tabernacles,
whose parents had not defiled themselves, who
had kept themselves from all others.  Such
are the men that have entered into this order
of marriage, and such are the women.  A small
percentage of the men of this Church have a 
plurality of wives, and they are those, many of
them, who were married men, who had never
cohabited with any other women but their own
lawful wives, virtuous, upright and honorable
to the very letter, and up to the present time
they would have clung to one wife only, had
they not know it was a divine command.
They acted under a religious conviction, and
had to stem the tide of civilized usage and
custom, which they could never have had the
courage to do without that knowledge that 
comes to God's people by revelation.
	There is a great responsibility resting upon
those who enter this order of marriage; they
must lead holy lives, be prayerful and circum-
spect, set good examples before their offspring
that they may become good, honorable men
and women, that they may walk in that
straight and narrow path that leads to eternal 
life, "For broad is the path that leads to des-


truction, and many there be that go in there-
at."
The monogamists of this community are
virtuous men; they cohabit with no other
women but their own wedded wives; but if they
believe what is written in the Bible about
Abraham and the Patriarchs having more
wives than one, they cannot set as jurors or
hold public office.  But God the Eternal
Father will appoint them judges to judge this
nation of their ungodly deeds, even as He ap-
pointed His servants the former day saints, to
judge.  I Cor. vi 2-3 "Do ye not know that
 the Saints shall judge the world, and if the 
world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy
to judge the smallest matter?"
"Know ye not that we shall judge angels?
how much more things that pertain to this
life?"
     So, you see that judges will be chosen from
the Lord's people, and not from those who
work iniquity.
     St. Luke xi; 52.  "Woe, unto you lawyers!
for ye have taken away the key of knowledge:
ye enetered not in yourselves, and them that
were netering in ye hindered."
     And in that day  they will begin to say,
"Have we not tried to bring to justice these
Latter-day Saints for breaking man-made
laws?  Have we not laid them under heavy bonds
and cast them into prison?  Have we not done
good to the community at large by making a 
stagnation of business? Inasmuch as we were
paid by Government and nothing came out of
our own pockets, we felt to do Uncle Same a 
great favor by spending a few thousand dol-
lars out of the treasury; if we let this people
alone they will become powerful in the land;
their industry must be checked; they are too
progressive, and they have a tendency to stand
at the head and lead out, by clinging to their
country and its laws; they are addicted to Bible
research and no others can confute the, they
believe all that is written therein is for learn-
ing and profit, which we cannot believe nor
countenance; they believe in its literal fulfill-
ment; which we spiritualize; they believe in the
true and living God, that can speak now as
formally, and we do here declare that he has
neither body, parts, nor passions, therefore, He
cannot hear nor speak, and yet He is one per-
son, the Father, Son and Holy Ghost.  Now,
this strange and outlandish people have dared
to differ from us and all other sects and people
throughout Christendom, and we will punish
them for it, as we did the prophets before them.
Mary Ann Merrill Pratt.


