MAN'S KNOCK?"

The postman! Oh, the postman!
Name that long has blest the world,
Carrying hopes, and fears, and sorrows,
	Carrying scrolls to be unfurled;

Carrying secrets dear and sacred,
	Carrying whisper'd love and joy,
And alas, some 'whelming sorrow
Crushing in its base alloy.

"Men of letters" surely are ye
Bearing white-winged doves to all,
You are truly sent to bless us - 
Welcome, welcome is your "call."

Yes, I bless you, "men of letters,"
Knowing you are sent to bless,
I know none that are your betters
In relieving deep distress.

In bestowing daily pleasure,
	In dispensing joy below
In this nether world of ours,
	On your way rejoicing go.

Money is a meagre tribute
For the labors you dispense,
Heart-felt thanks we offer to you,
	Gratitude your recompense.

Yes, we bless you, "men of letters,"
For the healthy joy you bring;
We know none who are your betters
For the sunshine which you fling.

O'er the mother who in absence
Yearns to hear "about" her son-
For the token love dispenses
Through you to the treasured one.

Public benefactors are ye,
	True as needle to the pole.
Blessings on ye, "men of letters,"
Noble is your daily role.
						HANNAH T. KING.
March 7th, 1885.


[Column 1]
	HOME. 

	Home is the nursery of innocence and con-
tentment. All hearts beat in unison, and
contentment prevails. Father and mother are
happily mated, enjoying each other's pleasures
and sharing each other's sorrows. Both enjoy
the society of their children; they are pleased
and happy to see any improvement in their 
education, from baby Allie up to sturdy John. 
When father is away all miss him and are
anxiously awaiting his return. Hear the ex-
clamations of joy when the announcement is 
made, "Papa has come home!" or more com-
monly, "Here is papa!" All are anxious to 
greet him first and tell him every little inci-
dent that has happened during his absence. 
All these manifestations show in what degree
of love and respect he is held in his own home. 
So it is when mamma is away and returned, and
also with each of the children. Happy is the
home when all of its members are thus situat-
ted. 
	How we should strive to make home the
most pleasant place in the world; where per-

[Column 2]
fect confidence reigns; where all may come and
tell their joys and make known their sorrows, 
being sure to receive the sympathy and advice
so much needed in our journey through life.
	Fathers, talk to your wives and children; let 
them know you are their friend. Mothers, 
make your children your confidents, so they 
will, in return, make you theirs. Children, 
confide in your parents; take heed to their ad-
vice, for truer friends you will never find; no 
one will ever be more interested in your wel-
fare than they are. Honor, respect and love
them; thank God your Heavenly Father that
you were permitted to have such noble parent-
age as you have. 
	Men and women are worthy to be called of 
God in this day, to help to establish His king-
dom upon the earth for the last time; men and
women of much integrity to boldly stand forth, 
amid all the oppression and persecution, and
serve God in helping to establish the principles
of life and salvation where wickedness and sin
have so long held sway. Respect yourselves, 
as sons and daughters of God, born in the holy 
Priesthood, with power given to you to go forth
and proclaim the glad tidings of great joy to 
all the nations of the earth. Be willing instru-
ments in the hands of God in bringing the pure
in heart to a knowledge of the Gospel. You
should all rejoice in this knowledge. The more
persecution and opposition you receive the 
stronger your faith should be in the divinity
of the Gospel. 
	Home is the starting point for every man and 
woman on the earth. There we are born, learn
to walk, talk, then to take cognizance of things
near around, and then, as our abilities grow 
stronger, we learn to do small things, then sent
to school to learn the fundamental rules for 
forming an education as we journey through 
life, etc., etc. 
	Children are just like small plants springing
from the ground; the more they are cultivated
and kept in the proper shape the straighter 
and more useful they will become. They are 
pliable, while young, just like the plant, hence
the necessity of early training and strict obe-
dience to parents. "As the twig is bent, so will 
the tree grow."
	Home should be made a place so desirable
that the children will be contented and their
minds employed in something useful, or at ease. 
Music in a home has a great attraction for
children, as well as older people. It is an ele-
vating element of education; it draws out the
mind, softens the heart and gives loftier de-
sires to all. It seems to place us as near to 
heaven as anything earthly can. It is inspir-
ing in its nature, when it is of an elevated kind. 
It has a great tendency to cheer and soothe our 
souls; it makes us contented with our lot in life; 
it is comforting at all times and heavenly in 
its nature, hence it should be cultivated in the
homes of the Saints. When we go to church
on the Sabbath day and hear the solemn hymn, 
the heavenly tones of the organ, the many and 
sweet voices of the singers, how they thrill our
hearts—bring such contentment to our souls, as 
nothing else can, and prepare our hearts and 
minds for the inspired words of God, as they
fall from the lips of those who are appointed 
to feed the soul on this holy day. 
	Our home, or the home where we are raised
is very apt to be a model of the homes of our
children, and for this reason we should wish
our homes to be pleasant and agreeable. Pa-
rents, in the ideas of their children, are per-
fect. This is the court of justice to which they 
bring their difficulties to be settled. It is not 
a trifling thing to decide in justice to all. Wis-
dom and consideration should be used in such 
decisions, and thus early plant the principles
of right and justice in their minds. Solomon
said, "Train a child in the way it should go, 
and it will not depart from it."

[Column 3]
This is a model of our Mormon homes in 
Utah. This is the doctrine I have been 
taught from my earliest recollection. I was 
born and raised in Utah of Mormon parentage. 
I know but little of the world outside of our 
Church. I know the Saints are sincere in their 
religion, and will serve God rather than man, 
come weal or come woe. Our trust is in Him
whom we serve. 
	D. E. DUDLEY. 
Clifton, Idaho, Feb. 14th, 1885.


