[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | February | Issue: 7 | Title: A TRIP TO ENGLAND. | Author: LITTLE SISTER]

		A TRIP TO ENGLAND.
			(Concluded.)
	Leaving Guernsey for Southampton,
thence to London to visit my husband’s
relatives, not having heard of them for
some time, we had a little hunting to do;
however we found a niece in Angerly
Road, Upper Norwood, Surrey, near the
Crystal Palace. They were both suprised
and overjoyed on seeing us, and we had
to stay there and partake of their hospital-
ity, then they took us to Poplar, where
my husband found a sister and a brother,
who treated us equally well, and two
more sisters in Gravesend. Here, as at
the other places, we had to rest awhile.
Our sister and her husband took us some-
where every day. One of the grandest
sights was the Resherville gardens. Every
night there are performers acting, but the
illuminations were so grand and flowers so
artistically arranged, it is claimed these
are the most beautiful gardens in the
world. I think it was in 1904 that the
Duchess of Albany was invited to visit
these gardens. The gardener had so
planted the flowers in their variety of
colors in such a way as to read, “Wel-
come to the Duchess of Albany.” It is
needless to say that she was highly de-
lighted. Then we went to Mill Park. I
thought what a nice place for a picnic.

[Column 2]
St. George’s Church is here at Graves-
end, where Pocahontas was buried; you
know she came to England and embraced
Christianity, and married Thomas Wolfe.
She was received by Queen Anne, wife of
James the first. A small monument
erected to her memory is here, bearing
the date March 26, 1617. Well the sights
are too numerous to give in detail, and
then there are the chalk mines. I do not
wish to tire the readers of the Exponent
so we will leave our friends at Gravesend
for a while and take the train for Chat-
ham, where we have another brother
and nephews.
	Here exists a little band of Saints, very
small; the first we saw was Elder Orlando
Bateman and Elder Jno. Saville his part-
ner. They were holding afternoon meet-
ing at 136 High St. at Brother Abery’s
house, though they had just commenced
to hire a school hall, where we took our
brother-in-law and nephews to hear our
Elders preach. When I saw and heard
these young men standing in the hall ex-
plaining the principles of the Gospel, I
thought how proud their mothers would
be if they could only peep in just then.
The congregation was composed mostly
of children, but the seed sown in these
young minds may sprout, and who knows
what the harvest will be after many
days.
	While visiting our brother and family
at this place, we visited the hospital.
This hospital is a sample of many in Eng-
land. This building was erected and en-
dowed by a generous donation, then after-
wards is kept up by the working men’s
subscriptions which they pay as regularly
and as systematically as they receive their
wages, and for every guinea they sub-
scribe they are privileged to give a recom-
mend to one inside patient or two outside
patients, for one treatment. These rec-
ommends are sometimes given to non-
residents and to those who are out of
work or cannot afford to pay for advice
that they may receive either surgical aid
or medicine. Before leaving Chatham our
brother Harry and wife took us to
Rochester Park and church yard, there
we saw some lovely flowers and shrubs.
While we were passing the Rochester
Cathedral it was evident that an official
marriage ceremony was about to take
place, as the gentlemen were all dressed
in full uniform and they did look grand.
While here at Chatham, or close by, we
walked down to see the Jezreelite tower,
or temple. This building is constructed
of iron and brick and was designed by its
founder to shelter the lady of the faithful
when the world was to come to an end.
But the work did not progress beyond
the fifth floor, after 44,000 pounds had
been expended, the finances came to an
end and the structure was seized by the
contractors under the order of the court;
the last we heard of it was that it had
been turned into a warehouse.
	Then we run up to Gravesend to take a
peep at the good folks, then go on to Pop-
lar, called at a photographer’s art gallery,
had quite a conversation with him; he
belonged to a physical culture society, did
not drink stimulants nor tea or coffee.
When some people up here refuse these
beverages they are told, “Well, you must
be very religious.” A young man living
in Teton Basin, and who staid all night
at our place, once said his mother was
very religious, she would not drink tea or
coffee, I told him here were infi-


[Column 1]
dels and people not professing any relig-
ion who will not touch these drinks sim-
ply because they found them to be hurt-
ful to the body. Some quit drinking them
by taking advice from their physicians
and when the Lord inspires his servants to
tell us they are not good, certainly we
ought to believe them.
	When you are at Poplar and you are
walking from East India Duke Road to-
wards Manchester Road you meet a num-
ber of people about 5 o’clock or a little
later coming from work. They are near-
ly all girls and women who work in fac-
tories. There is a match factory here and
a rope factory and others. We will not
tire our readers about all we see in Poplar,
we will leave Poplar and visit a niece in
West Kensington, West London, but be-
fore getting there we must not forget the
tube at Poplar and Subway our sister and
her husband took us through the tube or
subway. This is a very long tunnel dug
and built up with brick in arched shape
under the River Thames; you can hardly
believe when you are walking in these
tunnels that the river is flowing above
you; but I fancy some one is asking how
do you get down in these tunnels? Well
they let you down by an elevator, called
a lift in England; when you get to the
other end of the tunnel you find another
lift, this time you are lifted up instead of
being let down. Our brother, Thomas
Miskin lives here at Poplar, he and his
family were very entertaining, we spent
several evenings listening to their music
and singing.
	Well we will not go to Crisp Street
Market tonight; we will take a train or
underground train, which is run by elec-
tricity, they call these trains an American
invention and while we are visiting our
niece in West Kensington we go in this
underground train to Museum Station
then we go to the British Museum. It
will take too long to tell all we saw there
and we did not see half. We were three
days however at the reading room: you
have to get a recommend to go to the
reading room, and what a large room, so
spacious, so great, so complete, hundreds
go there and sit from day to day reading
and writing with no fear of being dis-
turbed. Another day we went to West
Kensington’s natural history Museum
where we saw all kinds of stuffed animals,
some wonderfully large, others very, very
small. We spent all day looking at many
curiosities, and then we did not see near
all there was. However another time we
went to Madame Trossou’s waxworks, how
real, how true like mankind this work of
art indicates nature. Then we go to the
big wheel, you can get a beautiful view of
the city in the wheel which is so large
you can scarcely feel the motion. Then
there are all the sights of Earl’s Court,
the diver with his diving suit, shows how
men can dive under the sea for lost treas-
ures then there is the flying machine
boats, I could not be persuaded to take a
ride up there, too high up in the world
for me; then the giddiness I would exper-

[Column 2]
ience when the boats go so swift, round
and round, up in the air. No thank you,
I will not accept a ride up there, I noticed
thercountenances of those who came
down was anything but pleasant, and I
never knew any one to take a second ride
up there, one was quite enough in a life-
time.
	Sunday comes and we take the train
and visit headquarters, 37 Farleigh Road,
Stoke Newnington, London. At the first
of the month we find quite a number of
noble young men gathered, perhaps to re-
port and receive instructions. Brother
Hoops, who is presiding, introduces us to
Brother Young; this young man is a
grandson of that great prophet who led
the Saints up to this Rocky Mountain
country, showed the people how to exist
and work in such a way that they would
not starve in this new country, taught
them how they could live happily with
the blessings of the Lord. We were also
introduced to one of President Joseph F.
Smith’s sons, who was there on a mission,
Brother Booth and many others whose
names I cannot recall just now. We
went with them to Finsbury Hall to thei
Sunday night meeting, where we had the
pleasure of hearing Sister Nannie Tout
sing, as also her sisters and father. The
Holy Spirit was there manifested. the
same Gospel preached as at home. May
the Lord bless these missionaries, I know
He will.
	Next day we run back to Poplar to con-
tinue with our genealogical work. When
Saturday comes our sister and her hus-
band take us to Crisp Street Market, here
are stands inside and outside, where you
can buy anything and everything to keep
house with and furnish a good table: fresh
fish, all kinds of fresh meats and mer-
chandise of every description, and if you
wish to go on further, you will find your-
self in Petticoat Lane. Most of the vend-
ers here are Jews and nearly all of them
women. People say they are tricky, and
if the story I heard is true, they must be,
These second hand goods very likely are
clothes pawned by people out of work;
some sell them for drink, others when
they gamble too heavy are obliged to part
with these things to save themselves from
starving or to pay their rent.
	Well we are getting ready to return
home hunting through Woolwich and
Greenwich for genealogy, also visiting the
Miskins at 1100, who, though not closely
related, treated us very kindly.
	I believe the time is coming when we
as a people will be better understood and
therefore will be treated better; but I sup-
pose there will always be misunderstand-
ings even amongst ourselves. I will just
mention a little instance. A sister went
to Salt Lake to do work in the temple
and visit relatives, and happened to ex-
press a wish to see an Elder and his wife,
whom she had known before coming to
the mountains, another sister volunteered
to drive her up to see these friends. But
time passed and when she was near ready
to return home she reminded the sister of

[Column 3]
her promise, when a niece exclaimed,
“You people out in the world fall in love
with our Elders sometimes.” She was
rather taken back at this remark, and
thought perhaps her motive was misunder-
stood, so she returned home without tak-
ing this visit to the lady missionary to
whom she had felt drawn towards for her
lady-like ways, her dignified appearance,
and quiet disposition; but she thought,
“Never mind, that will not prevent us
from appreciating those who brought us
the Gospel, we will always revere, not
only one but all who point to us the way
to eternal life.
	Now we are home again taking up
the duties of every day life. The prom-
ises that were given us in our parting
blessing, that we would allay prejudice
and return home in better health, have
been verified.
			LITTLE SISTER.
		(Concluded.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


