The Gospel to the Lamanites
The following letter was written by Mrs. Lucy Wright Snow to an Indian princess, who visited Royal Oak high school in Michigan, one day last spring. We feel sure our readers will be interested in the letter. We are especially glad to be able to publish it this year, as this is a Book of Mormon year, because of the recent centenary of the appearance of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Dear Princess Neawanna:?
I was indeed disappointed that you were so suddenly called to Grand Rapids on the eve of your coming to our home. I had invited a party of Royal Oak's best educators to be present to hear you speak on the subject most dear to your heart?"The American Indian"?but my faith is that you will return to Detroit and that we shall have another opportunity to speak of the record of your people which I possess.
I take delight in confirming your testimony that you are not of the lost tribes by the following quotation from the record: "For behold, I shall speak unto the Jews and they shall write it; [the Bible which contains the record of the Jews] and I shall also speak unto the Nephites and they shall write it; [the Nephite record contains the record of your people] and I shall speak unto the other tribes of the house of Israel which I have led away, and they shall write it; and I shall also speak unto all nations of the earth and they shall write it."
I will also quote from the record concerning your lineage as follows: "Wherefore, for this cause hath the Lord God promised unto me [Nephi] that these things which I write shall be kept and preserved, and handed down unto thy seed, from generation to generation that the promise may be fulfilled unto Joseph, that his seed should never perish so long as the earth should stand." (This Joseph was none other than he who was sold into Egypt, and we are of his seed.)
Your people were given a promise that they should never become extinct as follows: "Nevertheless thou beholdest that the Gentiles [the United States] who have gone forth out of captivity, and have been lifted up by the power of God above all other nations upon the face of the land which is choice above all other lands, which is the land that the Lord God hath covenanted with thy father, that his seed should have the land of their inheritance, wherefore thou seest that the Lord God will not suffer that the Gentiles will utterly destroy the mixture of thy seed which are among thy brethren, neither will he suffer that the Gentiles shall destroy the seed of thy brethren." (The Indians.)
Dear Princess, I am pleased that our acquaintance was made possible by your coming to the Royal Oak's high school and that my daughter felt impelled to make an appointment for us and that you also were inspired with a desire to meet me, and when you told me that you were doing the educational work you are engaged in simply because you felt impelled and inspired to do it I felt sure that the truths which I have written should be in your possession, and they will indeed enhance your scope of vision in your chosen work, in behalf of your people, and because you have expressed a desire to see the record, I invite you to come to me if possible and I will give it to you myself, or if this is impossible, let me know and I shall send it to you. Meanwhile, be encouraged in your work, pray to the Great Spirit you know, who is the Lord God, for further enlightenment and he will bless you for your faith and effort.
Guide Lessons for April
LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in April)
THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR
A. The Tares.
The Text: "The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed good seed in his field: but while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way. But when the blade was sprung up, and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also. So the servants of the householder came and said unto him, Sir, didst not thou sow good seed in thy field? From whence then hath it tares? He said unto them, An enemy hath done this. The servants said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? But he said Nay; lest while ye gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them. Let both grow together until the harvest; and in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them: but gather the wheat into my barn." (Matthew 13:24-30.)
The Explanation: Again, as with the other parables of the Savior, even the disciples were not sure as to the meaning of the tares, so they sought information from the author, whose explanation is recorded in Matthew 13:37-43.
Some Great Lessons Taught: (a) That through the lack of wide-awakeness in good men who should guard against the introduction of evil, the servants of satan get a foothold in the kingdom. (b) That the untimely expulsion of evil-doers may do more damage than good, because of the social and other ties which interlace their lives with the lives of the good. (c) That there will come a day when conditions will be ripe for a safe and effectual elimination of the evil-doer, and the salvation of the righteous: the former bound together for destruction, the angels of consistency and justice fastening them together with bands of selfishness and sin and casting them into the flames of a conscience that burns as long as there is a recognized end to feed it.
Special Application: I am the Tare as far as I share The fruits of satan's temptation; I am the Wheat as fast as I meet Requirements for Jesus' salvation.
I must not sleep, but watch must keep, Lest the enemy sow in my heart The doubt and the sin that canker within, And leave me from heaven apart.
I must forbear to judge when and where Vengeance shall fall on the earth; Just cling to the rod, Leave the issue with God, Who'll save according to worth.
B. The Mustard Seed.
The Text: "The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and sowed in his field: which indeed is the least of all seeds: but when it is grown, it is the greatest among herbs, and becometh a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof." (Matt. 13:31-32; Mark 4:30-32; Luke 13:18-19.)
The Purposes: This parable had at least three objectives: First, to correct the idea prevalent among the Jews that the kingdom was to come to them as a sudden manifestation of superhuman deliverance and exaltation to power. Second, to teach that the kingdom of heaven on earth is a growth from a Divine planting. Third, to proclaim that the Christ-life with small and derided beginning would become the triumphant life.
Why He chose the mustard plant for a center of interest: "We are all familiar with the mustard-plant of our own country. It is not the smallest, nor indeed the largest, of our herbs or shrubs; still, its proportions are comparatively diminutive; it is nothing like a
tree. The Savior here is referring his hearers, - not to the plant with which we are acquainted, but to the khordal, or Salvadora persica?the same as the khayal found in the Himalayas. This, though small in germ, does grow into a tree in which birds do nestle. And its seeds resemble those of our mustard in taste. It is noticed by travelers as growing abundantly on the shores of that very lake from which Jesus was teaching. And its seed is used in the Talmud as an image of extreme littleness; small as a mustard-seed' was a common saying. And yet the tree was noted as large. "There was a stalk of mustard in Sichem (writes one) -whence sprang three branches, one of which was large enough to cover the shed of a potter.' 'There was a stem of mustard (writes another) in my field, into which I used to climb, as men climb into a fig tree.' 'I have seen it,' says Dr. Thomson, 'on the rich plain of Akkar as tall as the horse and his rider.' " 4. The Application: (a) Historical: The little babe in the manger, a stpposed carpenter's son, now the greatest character of the world's history. Shortest of religious laws, "Love the