Make Use of the Rocks Ezra J. Poulsen DN this day of high prices it is well to remember that rocks are still cheap. If they are not already around under your feet, you will find plenty of them in some neighboring creek bottom or ledge. And they are abundantly useful around the home. If you are handy enough to use a trowel and mix a little cement mortar, you should not have any trouble finding plenty of projects for using rocks. They do well to line a small water ditch, both for artistic effect and for the conservation of moisture. They make the best of retaining walls, bird baths, flagstone walks, and foundations for small buildings. Perhaps the rear fence has fallen into discard, with the posts broken off and the wires sagging, with the result that the climbing roses and Virginia creeper are literally crawling out into the alley in search of something on which to drape their foliage. Here, a neat stone wall would create a miracle of durability and beauty. If you are a trifle hesitant about your ability to undertake such a task, just keep in mind a few basic rules, then remember the vines will cover up the wall, anyway. So a wall may be the very place for your first effort. Make sure you have a durable rooting, deep enough to be below the frost line, and wide enough to give the wall the rigidity necessary to withstand any of the ordinary forces of nature without crackPage 466 ing or sagging. The width of the footing may be about two feet, and the depth an equal distance from the surface, with the actual thickness of the footing from eight to twelve inches. The footing should be level and so completely tied together by cement as to constitute a solid slab. Then, with trowel and mortar, using also a line and plumb bob, you are ready to do the actual building of the wall. One of the most interesting projects to undertake without a high degree of skill in masonry, is laying a flagstone courtyard or patio. This might well unite the house with an outdoor fireplace, the latter also to be built with the same design and materials. This undertaking may expand into an outdoor living room, with rustic furniture and, if possible, a huge flagstone table properly mounted on a solid base. The fireplace naturally becomes the center of many outdoor activi- 'ties, such as marshmallow roasts and picnics. With the table handy, it is always easy to serve a complete meal if desired. If the wings of the fireplace are designed to be hollow, they make excellent storage places for wood and, by covering the top of the wings also with smooth slabs of rocks, you get extra table space for pans and dishes. Your flagstone yard, built in this way, should be sloped sufficiently to make drainage swift and complete. And, after the very first tones ate to be §°0d cement The floor the air. Will be Tugged but durable laid. Use Plenty of © end is not yet. Yoy wil] § ftom lettuce to need bottles Of oil an vinegar él€en and Ted Peppers, Apartment Cle was g time When Considered dwellers can have herbs, gtown in ive oil a ust. At was before OWer pots, if heeds be. 941. Now | have |] Imagination is all Important In Salad Making, that and like 'NY good salad oll. Yep n knowing the when I larly goog salfundamenta] skills. O Ce you have ad, Olive Oil, the Mastered the art of mix; n be bought. é'cens and * FOr Vinegar, there js Only your their ACCESsOries, you can make eq Iscretion, Foremost | Put a goog - lunch and dinner a thing of say Tagon-flavored vinegar, When | delight, Can get it, | use a French one, but Let your 'Magination rio¢ IN salad here is domestic brand foy on Materials. Lettuce heads th list, MOst eye | Whether jt 1, he j eM combined for single dressing and bean 'Prouts, y ung chard, found the Tesult p Casing, and cabbage, not the least of hich ur condiment Shelf shoulg be is the delicate seen Chinese Cab. 4) age. Mustard, Pepper ( freshly g é'eens, there Possible ), Cayenne Nay care for salts, such as garlic Oked, string ans onion, an SO on My St advice cauliflower segments, nd artichoke howeve l€arts.