Introduction Briant Jacobs S Robert Louis Stevenson teminded us as children: The world is so full of a number of things, I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings. One of these happiest "things" of life is to share with others that which we have found to be good. For us the best in life is to share the best; this, in part, we are about to do. And if, in bringing this literature to you sisters, you maintain some fraction of the joy we feel in assisting you in this magnificant task, our desires shall not have been in vain. Now, a word about method. There are many trails through this rich wood; how you get within doesn't matter so much as that you do. If, in grazing this lush slope, we suggest that you eat only the tangy huckleberry, while in your own meanderings you have found some delicate grasses or aromatic mountain flowers—don't _ hesitate. On this range, bewilderment comes not from sparsity of feed, but from the very richness and variety of choice. Because a year's Relief Society course in literature is less than eight hours, sometimes we might appear to be in a hurry. Don't let us hurry you. Should we suggest you read four authors in an hour and, in discussing the first selection, you succeed rather well in making him come alive to your group until their faces glow as does yours—don't stop abruptly and feel you must hurry on to discuss the other three. Literature lives through creating and sharing a few intense experiences. Once you have caught some of the power, the beauty, the individuality of an author because you have been successful in enabling him to speak for himself with a part of his original force and freshness, you have accomplished something singularly worthwhile. But now it is time we begin—together. Lesson 1—Early English Literature Briant Jacobs For Tuesday, October 18, 1949 THE thrill of discovering an arrowhead beneath a sagebrush or a stone includes within itself these questions: Who last held this flint in his palm, as now it rests in mine? Who was he? How did he talk, and laugh? What, for him, was joy, or greatness, or fear? In what did he believe? Whatever sunken hulls or weapons, whatever cliff dwellings or castles the past has kindly preserved,