EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SOME delicious large ripe fruits have graced the
table of the editorial sanctum of the EXPONENT, 
recently; for which we tender grateful thanks to
Sisters Sutherland and Richards. 
	IMPROVED BLANKS for the Young Ladies' 
Associations are now ready and for sale at the
Deseret News Office in this City.  It is to be hoped
the Associations will obtain these new blanks for
current reports and thus make all reports uniform. 
	THE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE of the Relief
Society of this Stake of Zion, will be held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on Thursday,
Septembea 16th, at 10 a. m., and 2 p. m. The
President, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, would like to
see a good representation from each Ward in this
county. All those interested in the labors of these
benevolent organizations are cordially invited to
attend the meetings. 
	ON Friday, the Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake
will hold their Conference, in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, occupying the whole of
the day; and on Saturday, the Conference of the
Primary Associations of this Stake will be held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall.  Presidents of the
respective Associations should notify the children 
and parents, that there may be a good representa-
tion.


ON WEDNESDAY, August 18th, the P. A. of the 
Twentieth Ward held an annual meeting in the
ward house, Mrs. Mary Davis presiding. The
children rendered their exercises very creditaby.
Many visitors were present, among whom were
Sisters Ellen C. Clawson, Prest. P. A., this Stake
of Zion, and Lydia Ann Wells, her Counselor, 
Sister Emma Toone, Prest. P. A. of Twentieth
Ward, and Sister Presendia L. Kimball and Dr.
Ellen B. Ferguson, who each made brief remarks
suitable to the occasion. 
	UTAH'S Delegate to Congress, the Hon. John
T, Caine, returned to his home in this city, Sun-
day evening, returned to his home in this city, Sun-
day evening, August 29th, accompanied by his
wife and daughters Misses Florence and Martie
Caine. We congratulate Mr. Caine on the suc-
cessful efforts he has succeded in making to ward
off adverse legislation. We realize to some ex-
tent how arduous his labors have been, and trust
that here at home he may have the opportunity of
recruiting his strength and preparing himself for
the winter campaign. Mr. Caine deserves great
credit for his indefatigable labors and the vigilance
with which he has watched and guarded the inter-
ests of the Territory he has the honor to repre-
sent. We join with their many friends in welcom-
ing Mr. and Mrs. Caine and daughters to their
lovely mountain home, and trust they may fully
enjoy the short vacation here among their old 
friends and true.
	AUGUST 9th. ult., we had the pleasure of visit-
ing Union Ward in company with Sisters Pre-
sendia L. Kimball and M. Isabella Horne. It
was the occasion of the annual meeting of the
Relief Society of that place. We breakfasted on
our way at Sister M. A. Smarts, who, by the by, is
the Secretary of the Society, and a very ener-
getic and efficient one as well an active worker in
other directions in benevolent duties. Meeting
was held in the new ward meeting house, Mrs
Elizabeth Richards presiding. After the usual
exercises and the reading of the minutes of the
last annual meeting, the financial report of the
Society was read, and was highly creditable. The
President is in very feeble health, and both the
President and her Counselor are quite advanced in
years; yet by their works of benevolence they are
an illustrious example to the younger women.
	Sister Kimball addressed the congregation in
her usual tender and motherly manner, and spoke
eloquently of the work in the Logan Temple, and
particularly in reference to the work for the dead.
Sister Horne dwelt earnestly upon the duties of
the mothers in their homes, and also upon the
work of the sisters in the different labors and
organizations, and encouraged them to persevere
in well-doing, Remarks were made by others, and
altogether the meetings both in the forenoon and
afternoon were very interesting, and a good spirit
prevailed. Probably the Secretary may send
minutes of the meeting for publication.


