SISTER ELIZA M. LYMAN, A FORMER WIFE OF
	THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, PASSES
			FROM THIS LIFE. 
					PROVO, March 8th, 1886. 
Editor Deseret News: 
	Many of your readers will be pained to learn of
the death of Sister Eliza M. Lyman, who departed
this life on the morning of the 2d, inst., at Oak
City, Millard County, U. T.  She was the eldest
daughter of Edward and Lydia Partridge, and
was born April 20th, 1820, at Painesville, Geauga
County, Ohio.  Her parents joined the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when she was
quite young.  This action changed the prospects
of her whole life.  From having been in easy cir-
cumstances before, her subsequent life was to be
one of privation and self sacrifice. Becoming


identified with the Saints in her youth, she was
early imbued with a love for the principles of the
Gospel and a reverence for truth and honesty. 
Having to suffer the privations incident to the
persecutions endured by the Saints in Missouri
and Illinois, she was deprived of those advan-
tages of education generally considered necessary 
to qualify a young woman to appear to advantage
in company; at the same time her inherent quali-
ties of modesty and good sense, coupled with a
studious disposition, enabled her to surmount ob-
stacles and gain sufficient book learning to become
a teacher, and she was able to appear to advan-
tage in the best society.  With no ostentation she
was generally self-possessed under all circum-
stances. 
	Although having filled honorable positions in
connection with the benevolent institutions among
the Saints, her life labor has been most appreci-
ated by her intimate friends and relatives. 
	She was one of the first to receive the doctrine
of celestial marriage, being taught that principle
by the Prophet Joseph Smith, to whom she was
married in 1843, by Apostle Heber C. Kimball. 
In those days it required considerable self-sacri-
fice as well as faith to enter into that order.  After
the death of the Prophet, Sister Eliza was married
to Apostle Amasa Lyman by whom she had five
children; three of them are now living.  Her son
Platte D. Lyman, was born in a wagon on the
Platte River, near Fort Laramie, while journeying
to the valleys of the mountains, the parents hav-
ing been driven out by mob violence with the rest
of the Saints from Nauvoo. 
	She accompanied her son P. D. Lyman, to San 
Juan, where he was sent to take charge of a com-
pany of settlers, having to make a road through
an almost impassable country in the winter time. 
The suffering and anxiety consequent upon that
journey, and the residence in the San Juan coun-
try where her son Joseph A. was shot in the knee
by a horse thief and lay helpless between life and
death for about a year; being surrounded by In-
dians, Utes on the one side and Navajos on the
other, no doubt served to break down a constitu-
tion by no means robust. 
	Upon the release of her son from the Presidency
of the San Juan Stake, she returned to her old
home in Oak City, where she appeared to feel un-
usually contended. Although enjoying the society
of the Saints and always rejoicing in the princi-
ples of the Gospel, her lot in life has not been an
easy one; but it has been one of self-sacrifice
almost from infancy, and she was never happier
than when ministering to the comforts of others. 
	If honesty of purpose and integrity to the prin-
ciples of the Gospel will insure a crown of celes-
tial glory, Sister Eliza will certainly receive one. 
