AN IDEAL HOME.

	I believe there is to be found in the homes
of the Latter-day Saints more purity, virtue
love, affection and a greater exercise of all the
divine principles, than can be found in the
homes of any other people on earth. And yet,
my observation has led me to believe that some
of our homes are not by any means what they
should be.
	As long as sin is allowed to exist at home,
there is no hope of raising society to that high
standard of perfection that is talked and writ-
ten upon by so many,—"home, home, sweet,
sweet home." It should be the heart's dearest
sanctuary. Every member of its holy circle
should lend his or her influence to make it an
Eden, a refuge from sin,and the contaminating
influences that abound in the world.
	Without the combined efforts of the family
it cannot be made what it should be. But the

[Column 2]

greatest responsibility rests upon the mother.
To her is given the sacred charge. God has
entrusted her to perform that sacred labor—
the molding of minds. We may praise her
in truth, for her tenderness, affection, devotion
and unbounded love for her offspring, and yet
she often fails to do her duty by them, simply
because she does not know what it is. Most
mothers realize to some extent the weight of
the responsibilities resting upon them, but
many do not sense it one tenth part as much
as they should; home and family ties should
not be neglected for anything else this world
affords. If mothers knew the glory, joy and
satisfaction they will receive if they train the
precious souls entrusted to their care in a way
that will enable them to gain eternal life and
a full salvation, they would indeed be en-
couraged. They would not look around for an
occupation that would bring brighter glories;
for them there is no nobler work. Let woman
understand her domestic duties and perform
them well, and she calls down the blessings of
heaven; but she too often fails to comprehend
the object of her creation. Girls, too many of
them, marry without giving the responsibilities
of their future lives a single thought, suppos-
ing all women capable of filling the offices of
married life. They are apt to think it re-
quires but little knowledge and an inferior in-
tellect to perform such duties; but every mother
should be highly educated and refined. She
should seek for knowledge from the best of
books, and adopt the best plans she can learn
of for the welfare of the little realm called
home, over which she is queen. Her most
anxious care and increasing watchfulness is
called forth while her children are young, for
impressions made then are lasting, and the
little tender ones, before their minds are some-
what matured or developed, are incapable of
taking care of themselves, and should not be
trusted from the mother's side, unless she
knows the company they are in, and knows it
to be fit for her child to mingle with, for it
will certainly influence them either for good or
for evil.
	Now is the time for all those elevating and
ennobling principles to be instilled into their
pure minds. And when they are older your
careful training will begin to show itself in the
way of the devoted love of a sister to her
brother, a brother's protecting care for a sister,
sisters clinging to each other in love and affec-
tion, brothers preferring the charms of home
to those offered elsewhere.
	In my ideal home, the home I believe it is
possible for all true parents and children to
make for themselves, I see no bad examples
set by the father, such as rough, uncouth ac-
tions and language, a violation of the word of
wisdom, Sabbath breaking, or profanity, but I
see a character who seems to understand that
he should be a light, a guiding star, whose
luster must not be dimmed by evil deeds, but
made brighter by noble ones, shedding forth
shining rays, and lighting the path of those
whom God has entrusted to his protection.
The mother is gentle, yet firm, kind, yet not
too indulgent, but ever loving and self-sacrific-
ing to those dear ones who form a part of her
very existence.
	The younger children, whose hearts know
nothing but happiness, look up to the older
ones in confidence, following their worthy ex-
amples and emulating their goodness. All

[Column 3]

have been taught to be industrious, cleanly
and orderly, to control their passions, lest they
do or say something that would wound the
hearts of those it is their destiny to live and
associate with daily.
	I know just such homes, and there is a spirit
of peace and contentment felt there that truly
reminds one of that home called heaven, which
I believe the inmates of my ideal home will
reach.	M. A. T.
	Smithfield, August 11, 1886.


