EDITOR EXPONENT
	DEAR SISTER:—I will try to give you a few
of my thoughts and ideas upon Mrs. A. F.
Newman’s petition. I shall not attempt to de-
scribe my feelings while reading it; perhaps
they can better be imagined; by the majority
of my sisters who have read the article, than
described by me, for I am sure it can not be
read by any lover of truth or fair dealing, or
one at all acquainted with the situation, with
any thing less than, feelings of amazement and
indignation. She respectfully represents that
on the 6th of March, 1886, two thousand Mor-
mon women assembled in mass meeting in 
Salt Lake City, to protest against the invasion 
of their rights by Federal interference, etc.
Quoting a preamble and resolutions, she adds
"These resolutions are the expression of Mor-
mon sentiment." In this I am sure she tells 
the truth, for I am firmly convinced that to 
the two thousand women that attended the 
mass meeting might be added the names of 
many thousands more who were not there, but 
whose hearts and sympathies were with them 
on that day, and responede to the sentiments 
there expressed. 
	In speaking of President Brigham Young, 
in connection with this matter, she says,
"The wily deceiver then evoulted from his
narrow soul, the magnanimous scheme of en-
franchising the women." Now, if my memory 
does not fail me, it was from the "narrow 
souls" of our Gentile friends that this mag-
nanimous scheme was evolved. They
clamored for the right of franchise to be con-
ferred upon the Mormon women, that by their 
votes they might free themselves from priestly 
bondage; but for some unaccountable reason
the Mormon women don't want to get out of 
bondage "worth a cent," to use a slang phrase.
They, like the balance of mankind generally,
rather like their friends better than their ene-
mies, and for that reason they vote for their 
friends; moreover they believe they have the 
right and the sense to know who their friends
are better than their enemies can tell them.
She says, "The civil polity of Utah Territory
is unrepublican; it was framed by a people 
anti-American in sentiment and hostile in pur-
pose; a people unfamiliar with the genius of 
republican institutions, fresh from the despot-
isms of the old world." 
	Now, I had thought that our leaders, (who,
according to Mrs. Newman, are the real law-
makers,) were, with very few exceptions,native
born Americans, and loved and revered her 
institutions, and were taught that that sacred 
instrument, the Constiution was a God given 
instrument, and whose fathers had fought, bled, 
and some of them died in defense of the 
same. 
	I have been educated (and my father has 
for many years been one of those who helped 
to make and administer the local laws) in the 
belief that this American Governmnet is the 
most liberal, grand and glorious government 
under the whole heavens. Why, does it not 
open its doors to the oppressed of all nations? 
And we claim the righ to differ in our opinions 
from some other people, if we cannot see that 
a small parcel of ignorant, ungodly, bigoted 
fanatics, called Federal officials and their Echo's
constitute the U.S. Government. True, they 
are its representatives, but if I had more faith 
in them I should have less in the government.
She further says, quoting Mrs, Steuhouse,
"I have often seen one solitary man driving 
into the city a whole wagon load of women, of 
all ages and sizes. They were going to the 
polls, and their votes would be one." Well, she 
might, if she watched for it, see the same sight 
in every ward in the city. The brethren get 
out their teams and carry the aged and infirm 
to the polls, and let the men and the robust

[Column 2]
 women walk, as they are perfectly willing to 
do, if they are in the line of their duty; and 
there is no law that I know of against a man 
carrying women of all sizes and ages; from 
twenty one years up as high as we can count.
She did not say there were any children.
"Again and again has it been charged in the
public prints of Utah, by eye witnesses, and 
unrefuted by the Mormon Church, that the 
genealogies of the dead, the unborn and de-
ceased had been represented at the ballot box,"
Some of the "public prints" in Utah will 
charge the Mormon people with anything, no 
matter how ridiculous, and otherwise, sane peo-
ple will roll it under their tongues as a sweet
morsel. As to the "Mormon" Church" refut-
ing such slanders, it is here on other business,
and I think, with the help of God, is abundant-
ly able to carry it on. Why, I feel somewhat 
lowered myself in undertaking to notice them;
and if I did not think there were some honor-
able people left left in the world, I would not 
do so. 
	I have not noticed all the falsehoods which
are embodied in her "petition," for I expect 
this article is already lengthy enough to tre-
pass on space that might be occupied by those 
who are better posted on this matter than my-
self; but I do feel like adding my protest to 
that of my sisters, (as I was not in Salt Lake 
 City at the time of holding the mass meeting,)
against being deprived of the right of fan-
chise, which we have exercised for many years,
and which we have never abused; I also pro-
test against the outrageous, infamous false-
hoods which are sent out broadcast to the 
world from this city, concerning the condition 
of Mormon women, by those who know better. 
I would say to such falsifers, for your own, if 
not for humanity's sake, pause! If you can-
not do good, cease to do evil and persecute an 
innocent people, before the wrath and indigna-
tion of an offended God, who takes care of His 
people, overtakes you to your utter destruction,
except you repent. When the cries of the 
wives and the little ones of those whom you 
have caused to be hunted, persecuted, exiled 
and imprisoned for conscience' sake, shall as-
cend to the ears of Him "who heareth even 
the ravens when they cry," and who has said,
"Not a hair of our head shall fall to the 
ground unnoticed," and do not the wrongs of 
the many fair daughters of our common father,
God, cry aloud from every city in the Union 
for vengeance on their seducers from the path 
of virtue? Aye, and the tears of broken 
hearted wives, who cannot trust their husbands
and God-will hear the cries of His daughters 
and avenge their wrongs. And in my humble 
opinion it would better become those ladies 
who are seeking to get legislation against the 
people of God, to go home and do all that lies 
in their power to ameliorate the condition of 
suffering humanity around thier own doorsteps. 
We were happy until they came among us,and 
we will be happy when they leave, or learn 
the Mormon creed, "Mind your own business." 
	RUTH.
Salt Lalt City, Aug. 10, 1886.


