	STILL WE WILL PROTEST. 

	The enemies of the Latter-day Saints will
persist in keeping them continually in the at-
titude of defense. We are not an aggressive
people; most gladly would we walk in the
quiet paths of peace and improvement, but
the attacks constantly made upon our people, 
practices and religious institutions compels us
to defend them against the most bitter and un-
just assaults from all quarters. 
	Were we really the vile and abominable peo-
ple that our enemies would have us appear—
why is not the truth, plain, indisputable truth, 
sufficient to arouse a nation's hatred without
the everlasting resort to the manufacture of
malicious lies by the wholesale. The women
of Utah had not recovered from the shock of
disgust and indignation occasioned by reading
a living abomination, called by Mrs. Angie F. 
Newman of Nebraska, "A petition to Congress
to deprive the women of Utah of the right of
franchise," in which she displays the most in-
tense hatred and ignorance of the subject
which she essays to handle with such eloquence
—her charges are a burning insult to thousands
of her sex, as intelligent, virtuous and noble
women as ever graced this fair earth, and for 
the second time I felt it my duty to refute her
malicious misrepresentations, but ere I began 
the task. the visit of the G. A. R. to Salt Lake
City, and some of the speeches made at the
Pavilion has furnished other demands for the
women of Zion to defend themselves against
another volley of cruel indignities and vile 
insults, proving that the efforts of such works 
as Mrs. Newman's have not been in vain, and 
the most unjust prejudice has found fruitful
soil in the hearts of ignorant and thoughtless
people who apparently have been made willing
victims of falsehood and deception. That
people at a distance should be deceived by so
many false and unscrupulous teachers, is not
amazing, but that such people as fill the ranks
of the G. A. R., professing the principles of
Christianity, and representing the patriotism of
this great nation should come here to the capi-
tol of our Territory and display their ill-gotten 
information and entire ignorance of the people
and situation is truly marvelous. 
	They talked about liberating the "slaves," 
the women—" Mormon" women, of course. 
Until the "Mormon" women acknowledge this
position and assume the attitude of slaves, 
pleading deliverance, such sentiments are a
gross insult to our womanhood, and we de-
cidedly resent it. We have not been trained to
ignobly submit to insult from man, having
always been treated with the greatest respect 
and deference by the brotherhood of this
Church, and we will not quietly submit to in-


[Column 1]
dignities offered under the guise of patriotic
gallantry.
	I was born on the once barren soil of Salt
Lake City, a child of freedom, proud of my
birth right, trained to freedom of thought,
freedom of speech and liberty of action con-
sistent with the rights of others. Some of my
earliest recollections are of the celebrations of
Independence day, when I learned to love the
Stars and Stripes and honor the Constitution,
which guaranteed to all "life, liberty and the 
pursuit of happiness, and to every creed the 
right to worship God according to the dictates
of conscience." These ideas are indelibly
stamped upon my soul, and I emphatically
deny ever being taught disloyalty to the govern-
ment of the United States.
	And from the principles of the Gospel as
taught by Jesus Christ in former days and
again established on earth through Joseph
Smith in this dispensation, I have received ex-
tended views on the rights and privileges of
woman, and I know that the Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter-day Saints proclaims the
greatest freedom and broadest charity for
woman. She is regarded as man's equal, and
his duty to protect, honor and cherish her is
clearly defined.
	Let those who would learn of the true status
of woman in this Church, throw away all no-
tions obtained from the ravings of anti-Mor-
mon zealots. Let reason govern all your in-
vestigations, and make a memoranda of a few
facts, furnished by the people upon whose
cause you are to sit in judgment.
	The women of this Church are charged with
being slaves. In face of the fact that she has
an equal vote in all ecclesiastical affairs, which
prevents the possibility of tyranny from the
Church, she still holds the right of suffrage
(despite the determined efforts of our pre-
tended emancipators to wrest it from us,) and
as the ballot is secret, political despotism is a 
myth. Again, women have perfect freedom
of speech, and are thoroughly organized and
trained in public speaking. I don't think
there is a community on earth where women
have greater privileges in this respect.  Then
she has full liberty of the press; the columns
of every newspaper are at her service, and
women even publish a paper, in which every
woman is urged to express her views and senti-
ments on all subjects.
	Women have on several occasions embraced
the privilege of holding mass meetings, when
thousands of women throughout the Territory
have assembled and emphatically protested
against the wrong, injustice and oppression—
not of men holding the priesthood, or any
Church measure, but against the national de-
fenders and protectors of women (?) They
have drawn up memorials, framed protests and
sent intelligent, educated ladies to represent
them at the capitol of the nation, besides sign-
ing petitions in the usual order, with 50,000
signatures. Are these the acts and privileges
of slaves? Let common sense answer. I will
go farther, and state that we have other rights,
which the Gospel and the Constitution have
conferred upon us. Each woman has the
right to the love, care and protection of the
husband of her choice, embracing the right to
fulfill the first great law of her being, to be-
come an honorable wife and mother. Where
is there a community of women more blest?
We have the right to hold land in our own
title, and pay taxes on it, too, but not as many
others, without representation. We have the
right to accept any proposal of marriage, also the
perfect right to refuse, and girls are not driven
to Zion like dumb brutes and married by the
dozen to men in authority. Nothing but fic-
tion will sustain such statements.
	Mrs. Nichols, of the Relief Corps, invited
the oppressed women of Utah to come to New 
York and they should receive help, for there she

[Column 2]
had every right that any woman ought to have;
personally speaking perhaps she has, but can
she say this truthfully of thousands of her
sex? We know she cannot. Many of the
Saints have been rescued from the bondage,
grinding poverty and sins of New York and
other American cities, and they know that
their present condition is infinitely improved
in these pleasant vales; besides, we are a read-
ing community. Were the statistics of New
York never published we might have a little
better opinion of society there. They record
30,000 prostitutes, and as many so-called "sur-
plus women"—(a libel on the economy of her
Creator.)
	By the time Mrs. Nichols and her philan-
thropic sisters have reclaimed and provided
for all there, and the thousands of homeless,
neglected, half-starved and over-worked child-
ren besides, she may consistently come to the
rescue of "Mormon" women. In the meantime
we will enjoy our perfect freedom, our happy
homes, noble husbands, our bright, healthy,
well-cared-for children, and pray for deliver-
ance from outside tyranny and oppression.
					A PLURAL WIFE.
	Aug. 9, 1886.


