HERE AND THERE.

	These are times fraught with the deepest inter-
est to the Latter-day Saints.  Every day furnishes
some fresh incident worthy of record in the annals
of their history.  Surely the Lord is hastening
his work in his time, for one event crowds so
quickly upon another that it is scarcely possible
to give each separate occurrence its proper
place in the hurry and bustle of chronicling things
as they transpire.  The newspaper reporter mnst
be more than ordinarily active to keep up with the
chapter of accidents and matters of a similar
character that transpire daily in the midst of this
moderate-sized inland city.  When we look around
over the United States and elsewhere abroad, and
consider the condition of the world and the won-
derful events transpiring from time to time, of
which we only learn a few; what then?  Every
person who believes in the prophecies of the Holy
Scripture must be more or less gravely impressed
by the “signs of the times,” and feel that there is
a power at work among the nations, above the
comprehension of finite beings. Latter-day Saints
know, or ought to know something about what
these marvelous and wonderful events portend,
and knowing and understanding as they do, should
seek continually for the Spirit of the Lord to be
with them, that they may be able to stand in the
day of trial, the test of integrity that will be re-
quired of each one, who has entered into holy
covenants to keep the commandments of God.
     It is not a time for vanity, folly or nonsense, and
yet how careless and indifferent many are in their
daily walk and conversation.  It is not expected
that young people will be restricted from healthful
amusements, or reasonable enjoyment; this peo-
ple have always sought to fnrnish places of recrea-
tion where the young folks could meet together in
theatres, parties, concerts, etc., and partake of all
innocent pastimes such as are good for the body
and the mind.  Parents have met with children
and children with parents, and good order has
been preserved and prayers offered, and the good
spirit that Saints cultivate when they are following
in the paths of duty and of righteousness, always
sheds its benign influence upon such social gather-
ings.  Excess in pleasure-seeking will inevitably
lead to dangerous results sooner or later; and
where there is a tendency to over-indulgence, the
wisest course would be to stop and let one’s rea-
son and judgment have time to act; the mind may
become so accustomed to excitement that when
over-wrought it refuses to be passive, and the
spirit of unrest takes possession of the person
and great unhappiness is often the consequence.
Young people frequently grow reckless with too
much pleasure and do and say things that are not
consistent, and without thought, not having had
perhaps in many instances proper training, that
under another influence they would not be per-
suaded to do upon any account.  They tire, so to
speak, of everything that is tame, and complain
of ennui, when wholesome exercise in the way of
actual work is what they most need, and would
be the best antidote for restlessness.

[column 2]
	It seems strange that Latter-day Saints should be
"lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God;" but it
is the spirit of the world, and it has obtained a foot-
hold here in Zion that this people would once have 
thought impossible.  It is high time some restrain-
ing influence should be brought to bear, to awaken
the young people to their true condition and their
own best interests.  After all, what is there in this
excess of pleasure that can give solid enjoyment
or permanent satisfaction.  It is vain and empty, 
it can never satisfy the cravings of the immortal
soul, nor even a laudable ambition.  It is a power-
ful evil influence to lead away and destroy those
who are capable of better things.  In many in-
stances upon record, one finds those on whom the
Creator had bestowed great gifts have allowed
 themselves to become entangled in the vortex of
fashion, and have yielded to temptation, and in an
evil hour have fallen a prey to the destroyer.
Sometimes through taking "a convivial glass," as
it is called, men have finally succumbed to a mor-
bid appetite, until they were lost to the proprieties
of life and even decency, and their existence has
became a burden.
     It does seem inconsistent that at a time when
persecution is being waged against the Latter-day
Saints, and the whole world arrayed against them, 
as it were, that such a spirit of pleasure-seeking
should have gained ground among the young, and
even many whose years and experience should
have given them greater wisdom.  After all it does
not happify; ask any one of those who have gone
through the whole giddy round of dazzling pleas-
ures, and have plunged deepest into the mazy
labyrinths of the world's most fascinating enjoy-
ments, and they will tell you that after years of 
vain searches after happiness, with shattered
nerves and broken health they have sought to
drown trouble in the unknown, mystic river,
Lethe, but all their plans and devices have failed.
Happiness in this life is not the highest good to 
be attained, and if one seeks for that even, they
must seek it in doing good to others; there is no
such thing as isolated happiness.  The consecra-
tion of life to some positive work, with the assur-
ance of its being in the line of duty, affords more
true, genuine happiness than the pursuit of dreamy
pleasure ever could.  Life is full of opportunities
for noble work, work for humanity, and the friv-
olous pastimes with which many fritter away the 
best years allotted to them on earth, is in many
cases a source of unceasing regret in after life.
     To moralize, however, was not our object, but to
enter an earnest, emphatic protest against so much
extravagant folly and excessive gaiety as prevails
at the present time, here and there among this
people.  The simplicity of the primitive days in 
these valleys, when carding, spinning, and color-
ing were daily vocations, and when homespun was
good enough for Sunday wear, or social parties,
would be far preferable and better for the health
and permanent happiness of the young, than the
habits many are now pursuing.  It is not a time
for extravagance, or great demonstrations of joy;
there is, on the contrary, particular need to econo-
mize and carefully husband the slender means at
hand and waste not in riotous living, that which
has been given to the Saints to enjoy.  Prosperity
in worldly matters ought not to make this people
forgetful of God, or irreverent in keeping His laws.
The Sabbath day should be kept holy if His bless-
ing is expected.  Moderation in all things should
be the motto of the Latter-day Saints.
     There are plenty of innocent recreations
for  the  body  and  the  mind,  and  they
are always within the reach of the young
people of Zion, and they have no need to min-
gle with an element that is opposite in its nature,
and would lead them downward; they should
beware of all such.  They should keep good com-
pany, and avoid evil influences as they would a 
loathsome disease, for it is far more to be dreaded.
Hearken to the counsel of those who are their

[column 3]
teachers and guides, and remember, that "obedi-
ence is better than sacrifice."  It is easy to wander
into by and forbidden paths, but hard to retrace
one's footsteps, and one seldom gets help to re-
turn, though allurements lay thick around when
following the delusive and gilded bait of pleasure;
whose votaries are ever ready to tempt the inex-
perienced and unsophisticated.  Never get an idea
that you must go here and there in search of hap-
piness.  It is more often found at home than
abroad.  The best friends you can possibly have,
and the truest,  are those who have watched
over you from earliest childhood.  Father and
mother are the ones whose counsel should be
heeded.  The disregard of parental government
and control, has been a prolific source of evil, and
there is an inclination among the young in the
present day to assert their rights and maintain the
dignity of "Young America."  It is a pity that,
Latterday Saints should indulge in such ideas;
but "'tis true and more's the pity true it is," and
moreover such sentiments are not in harmony with
the spirit of the Gospel.
     Melancholy, which is often the cause of this
mad pursuit of pleasure, is quite frequently caused
by idleness and luxury.  Occupation is the rem-
edy, work and love of work is a protection against
many evils.  It is said by Samuel Smiles of one
of the greatest men, "work might almost be said
to form a part of his religion."  In this Church it 
might be truly said our work should be a part of 
our religion.  Work, "is the best discipline of
character, for it involves the exercise of diligence,
attention, self-denial, judgment, tact, knowledge of 
and sympathy with others.  Such a discipline is
 productive of happiness."
     These are times to be appreciated in other ways
than pleasure-seeking; the days the old prophets
and patriarchs "looked forward to and sought, but
never found." There is and must necessarily be
important work to be done, and missions to fill
that will require almost superhuman faith and
heroism.  And how can this labor be accom-
plished unless by men and women of indomitable
energy, and sublime characters.  Not those who 
pander to popularity, and spend their time in the
vain search for happiness, and are moral cowards;
but are men and women of action, who have the
courage of their convictions, and who fortify
themselves with the cultivation of those attributes
that give strength and vigor to all their energies, 
physical, moral, and spiritual.


