EDITOR EXPONENT:

	DEAR SISTER:—It is many years since we
reported our ward. We are in the tops of the
mountains enjoying the spirit of our religion
undisturbed by the outside world, and while
we enjoy this, we are not ignorant of the doings
of other places. We are well posted through
the columns of our little EXPONENT, which is
always a welcome visitor. Would it were
more widely circulated among our friends out-
side, as well as home.
	When we read of Mrs. Newman's extrava-
ganzas we feel, as ladies in Utah, if we had the
power to echo through the land, we would tell
the opposite, for we know the statements there-
in are false. We have lived in the world, and
have resided in Utah for over twenty years,
and can say that nowhere do children cry less
for bread. Women are not the down-trodden
creatures there spoken of; our organizations


are so beautifully arranged that no one need
suffer. Although fathers and brothers are im-
prisoned their families are provided for and
their children educated. True we do not have
many fine buildings with grand names written
upon them, but our poor are kindly cared for
at their homes. It takes a close observer to
investigate the institutions of the Latter-day
Saints. A few flying visits do not see them as
they are, but they must live here to see how 
our sisters work for them to sustain them with
their means. It is those who have passed 
through trying circumstances that can econo-
mize. I feel for the poor. Our people are
happy if they could be let alone; but there
must needs be an opposite to all things; we do
not fear, for we know God is on our side. We
are thankful that we have so many faithful sis-
ters, who can so ably defend our rights and 
the principles of our holy religion.
	We had a visit from our Stake Presidency,
Sister Jane S. Richards, Sister Hattie Brown
and Sister Emily Shurtliff, which made our
hearts glad. The comforting counsel they
gave the sisters will long be remembered. We
feel to say, "God bless them!" for we know they
have passed through many sorrows.
	Our Society is in a good condition financial-
ly, and we try to keep plenty of wheat on
hand, according to counsel, in case of want.
Our sisters sustain home manufacture first rate
Their persons are adorned pretty well with the
work of their own hands. We desire to live
according to the spirit of the times, so we can
be prepared for every emergency.
	We do not wish to impose upon your time
and space, but ask God to bless and give you
wisdom, and those who labor with you, that
our little paper may reach many honest
hearts, is the constant prayer of,
		Your sisters in the Gospel of Christ,
					ELIZA A. TRACY, Prest.
					EMMA BURROWS, Sec.
			BANNOCK STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Y. L. M. I.
A. was held in Rexburg Hall, the evening of 
August 21st, 1886. On the stand were Prest.
Bybee, Coun. May A. Ricks, Serretta Pool,
Sarah A. Barnes, Lizzie Roberts, Lizzie Rig-
by and the Secretary, Mary Alice Anderson,
also a number of the brethren.
	Conference opened by singing. Prayer was
offered by Prest R. S. Bybee. Singing. The
reports from the different branches were favor-
able.
	Coun. May A. Ricks spoke very encourag-
ingly to the young ladies, and gave some
excellent advice. Exhorted them to attend to
their meetings and secret prayers, and each
get a testimony for herself; also to avoid jeal-
ousy and backbiting, or they could not retain
the Spirit of God, be kind and gentle toward
each other, and avoid hurting each other's 
feelings unnecessarily. Asked the Lord to
bless all the young ladies in Bannock Stake
and help them to keep the commandments of
God.
	Sarah A. Barnes was pleased to see so many
of the  young girls present; earnestly advised 
them to study the Church works, and get a 
testimony for themselves. "We all have our
own salvation to work ont; no one can work it
out for us. We cannot expect a salvation, or 
to be exalted in the presence of our Heaven-
ly Father without we live for it. We should
not be content to live in idleness, but we
should have an aim in view and that should
be to be exalted in our Fathers' presence; and
what is there more lovely than to see a young
lady that is noble, pure and good and trying
to serve God. We should study and reflect,
for we can never be saved in our ignorance,
asked the Lord to help us do right."
	Serretta Pool gave the girls some excellent
advice, counseled the young girls to be neat

[column 2]
and lady-like in their appearance and actions,
also to use good language. Spoke in very
strong terms against banged hair, said we want
our young girls to be elevating and intelligent. 
When I see a girl wear bangs I think there is
something lacking; she is too light minded,
and earnestly advised the young girls to at-
tend to their meetings, if you do you
will make better girls, better wives,
better mothers. Improvement should be
our aim. We should obey and re-
spect those that are placed over us. We
should prepare ourselves to meet the Savior
for we can then make no excuse, it will be too
late, and don't talk about your brothers and
sisters even if you think they do deserve it.
	Brother Troup spoke a short time encourag-
ing the young to study good books and live so
they could discern right from wrong and good
from evil, and live every day so you will not
have to grieve over your past life. Exhorted the
young to keep the "word of wisdom," come
life or death.	Coun. J. Morris spoke very encouragingly 
to the young men, and young women and gave
them a key: Honor and obey those that are
placed over you, if all that were put in office
would magnify their calling, we would have
better reports. 
	Lizzy Roberts and Lizzy Rigby bore a
strong testimony to the truth of this work en-
couraged the girls to attend to their meetings.
Pres. R. L. Bybee in his remarks said you
have heard some excellent advice and counsel
try and remember it and put it in practice; you
should store your minds with useful knowledge,
said there is too much ignorance among the
young people. You should study and fit 
yourselves for future usefulness, for you can-
not be saved in ignorance. Conference ad-
journed for three months. Singing. "Great is
the Lord." Benediction by H. Pool.
		SUSIE P. LAWSON Prest.
		MARY A. RICKS Act. Prest.
		MARY ALICE ANDERSON, Act. Sec.
				BANNOCK STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Re-
lief Society was held in Rexburg
Hall. Aug. 11th 1886. On the stand.
were Mrs. Temperance Hinckely, Mrs. S. A.
Gunnel, Mrs. E. Paul, Mrs. A Rigby, and the
Secretary Mrs. S. A. Barnes. After Singing
and prayer and roll called minutes of the 
last conference were read and accepted.
	Rexburg Ward reported by President Ann
Rigby, Salem Ward by President M. Ward,
Lyman Ward by President Butler, Teton
Ward by President M. Donaldson, Parker
Ward by President P. Mason, Wilford Ward
President Brower, Lewisville Ward, President
Jardine, Rigby Ward, President A. Robbins,
Cleaveland Ward, President A. Browning,
Eagle Rock, President M. J. Hawkley.
	President Hinckley made some closing re-
marks. Singing "The Spirit of God like a 
fire is burning." Benediction by Coun. S. A.
Gunnel.
	Afternoon session: After the opening ex-
ercises Prest. Hinckley addressed the sisters
upon their duties in the Society. and the
training of children. Exhorted the mothers
to keep their children in at night and not let
their daughters go to railroad towns to work,
thought that a calico dress and a pure heart,
free from guile, was far preferable to the finest
apparel obtained at the sacrifice of virtue and
honor, and spoke in a forcible manner of the
necessity of cleanliness in the homes of the
Latter-day Saints; encouraged the sisters to
lay up grain for a day of famine.
	Coun. S. A. Gunnel said they had been
around and visited every place in the stake,
thought there was room for improvement, bore
a strong testimony to the truth of this work.
Every principle of this Gospel is true; we

[column 3]
should practice all, realized we were a blest 
people, exhorted the sisters to attend to their 
family and secret prayers, for prayer is the
key to the Kingdom of heaven.
	Mrs. S. A. Barnes exhorted the mothers to
spend more of their time in the educating of 
their children that God had blessed them with,
"for the Lord will hold us responsible if we
neglect the teaching of our children, for none
can be saved or exalted in ignorance. We
should all have an aim in view, and work to
the same."
	Mrs. Emma Paul encouraged all to pay
their tithing and be blessed. Exhorted all to
be prayerful and humble, for if one principle
is true all are true. We should all be true to
our covenants, true to each other, and true to
our God; thought we had heard some excellent
advice and counsel, hoped we would put the
same in practice in our daily life.
	Miss Ann Rigby bore a strong testimony to
the truth of the work we are engaged in, also
gave some excellent advice and counsel.
	Mrs. Martha Ward spoke very forcibly on
different subjects; exhorted the mothers to look
after, and take care of their daughters; asked
the Lord to bless all with a portion of his holy
spirit.
	Brother Troup thought we had had a first
rate time, felt well; encouraged the sisters to
press forward in the good work we are engaged
in.
	Closing remarks by May A. Ricks. Con-
ference adjourned for three months. Singing,
"Let Zion in her beauty rise." Benediction
by Mrs. Lizzie Roberts.
		MRS. TEMPERANCE HINCKLEY, Prest.
