MY DEAR BOYS:
	I am truly thankful for the kind letters you
have sent me, and should have answered them
before, but father has seemed to have had
every minute of his time occupied. I get no
help from any one but your younger brother,
and he has not been strong for two weeks past.
I much wish he was with you a while.
	I am pleased to hear so good an account of
you from your mother; it is more to father to
hear that you are good boys, than to hear you
owned all the horses and cattle in Idaho or
Utah. I trust you are sample boys for telling
the truth, not using bad language, and for
kind, respectful obedience to your mother.
You know a person never builds a good house
to stand firm unless he puts a good foundation
in to start on.
	You boys are laying your foundations now
every day, and are forming habits that will
bring prosperity or misfortune as long as you
live—a person, for instance, if a story teller, it
hurts him for his whole life, or he gets the
habit of dropping his tools just where he uses
them, instead of having a place where he puts 
them when he has done using them, and know-
ing just where to put his hand upon them, night

[column 2]
or day. Many a man and his family have 
gone in poverty through a long worrying life
on account of this bad habit.
	Your Aunt Jerusalem has done as much
labor since I knew her in hunting for things as
all her other labor, and the worry has been 
worse than the work. I trust your mother has
educated you in regard to this. It is a $5,000
fortune to each of you to start life with. I 
want you boys to appreciate your chances in
life and be proud of them. If you reach
twenty-one years with thoroughly good habits,
with such morals as please God, you are rich
even if you don't own a dollar.
	Ranch men are often wicked—the last men
who ought to be so—God could send them a
thousand dollar colt as easy as a twenty-five
dollar one. My great desire is that my boys
may please God, and have His help in the
earth. Never do a thing you think to be
wrong. If you don't exactly know, don't do 
it. So will you give your conscience, or the
Spirit of God encouragement, and cherish it to
continue its help to you. Recollect that you
are children of God, literally, possessing in
miniature every attribute that is in Him, every
thing to enable you to become like Him. Let
your first highest ambition be to please Him
and develop these attributes by works of honor
and righteousness. Recollect, this world and
all in it are His, that of yourselves you cannot
even create a thought, and let humility, and
not pride, characterise your intercourse with
all people. The cheek, so glaringly the capital
of many men and women of this age, can
never push one's fortune to such solid and sure
fruition as God's blessing on the humble and
contrite spirit.
	From the reading of this letter resolve to
cherish, comfort and be obedient to your
mother, cheerfully, as a pleasure, as reflecting
more honor and blessing on you than her; do
this and I promise you prosperity in the earth.
Be "honor bright" to all your playmates; let
them feel that when "Hallie" and Hebe""
give their word it is as good as so much gold
in hand.
	Be saving, pains taking, and seek in your 
young years for the gift of salvation to dwell
in you as a gift, not only for yourselves, but
for your associates, that enlightened by it, your
eyes may see, and your ears hear evil before it
strikes you. Be slow to destroy anything;
teach your souls to save and build up; in every
prayer you make ask God for wisdom; never
 fail to offer thanks and show gratitude for the 
good you have; bear much before you com-
plain even a little; never cherish a complain-
ing spirit; always, everywhere in life, if you
open your hearts to look at the world as it is,
you will see that you have very much to be
thankful for.
	My dear boys, I did not think to write you
so long a letter, but I trust it will find place
in your souls, and that when we are permitted 
to meet again I shall have great joy.
			Your affectionate father.
	July 4th, 1886.


