			IN THE COUNTRY. 

	The twenty fourth of July, 1886, was pleas-
antly celebrated by the people of the Teasdale
Ward. The meeting house was beautifully
decorated with pictures and mottoes, and with
wreaths and bouquets of flowers. Over the
stand was the photopraph of the late President
Brigham Young, and on either side were
arranged the pictures of the Salt Lake and St.
George Temples. An arch of vegetables,
fruits and flowers was placed beneath the
pictures with these words inscribed: "We
have met to-day to celebrate the anniversary
of the day the pioneers, with President Young
at the head, first entered Salt Lake Valley.
For thirty-nine years God has blest and pros-
pered His people in these valleys. Let none
forget to praise His high and holy name."
	Salutes were fired at day break by Captain
Lewis Adams and company. The flags, the
glorious stars and stripes, were raised at sun-
rise and floated gracefully on the air.
	At 10 a.m. the people assembled at the
meeting house to celebrate a day that will ever
live in the hearts of the people of Utah. The
choir sang, "Hark! Listen to the trumpeters," 
etc. Prayer was offered by the Chaplain.
Choir sang, "O my Father, Thou that dwellest," 
etc. The programme was then read by the
Marshal, David C. Adams, and was rendered
as follows: Interesting remarks by the orator
of the day, F. F. Noyes, Miss Mary E. Stewart.
Bishop George Coleman and others. Recita-
tions, songs, toasts, etc., were then rendered,
giving credit to all those who took part in
them. The choir then sang, "Hark! ye mor-
tals. Hist! be still. Benediction by the Chap-
lain. 
	At 1 o'clock p.m. tables  were spread and a
bouteous repast partaken of, and all enjoyed
the feast. At 3 p.m. dancing commenced for
the children, and at 7 p.m. dancing for the
adults. All retired with joyful hearts for the
peace enjoyed.
	Everything looks prosperous here, and the
people are rejoicing over the bounteous harvest
now at hand. Praying for the success of your
valuable paper, I remain, 
	Your sister in the cause of truth,
