			SUFFRAGE.

	The September Atlantic contains a sweeping
indictment of "The Saloon in Politics," by
George Frederic Parsons. He asserts that
"the saloon has abolished party politics in our
largest cities, and that to-day in every such 
city the local government is vested in neither
party, but is in the hands of the saloon itself. 
Nominally, the government may be Demo-
cratic or Republican, but actually it is in com-
mission by a band of venal politicians who
have no convictions or principles, who
trade and swap opportunities for plunder with
each other who act as agents for the so-called
party leaders, but who acknowledge allegiance
only to the saloon."
	Our political situation is defined to be a
government controlled by 135,000 saloons and
8,000 wholesale liquor dealers, which absorbs
annually from seven to nine hundred million
dollars. These saloons, it is said, "have
fastened on us a shameful corruption, have
brutalized every institution, and have per-
verted and spoiled the democratic system,"
The sole remedy is declared to be the exten-
sion of suffrage to women. Mr. Parsons adds:—
	"Many men of sound capacity have won-
dered why the idea of woman suffrage has not 
made more progress in this country. The
usual explanation has been that the measure
is incompatible with 'practical politics,' and a
variety of minor objections have been raised
as that women 'know nothing of public ques-
tions,' that they are 'wanting in judgement,'
and so forth. When the fearful mess that men
have made of politics is impartially considered
it can scarcely be maintained soberly that
women, however inexperienced, could do much


[Column 1]
worse. It is, indeed, hardly possible to con-
ceive of worse being done by any kind of 
creatures. But there are obviously some things
now done by men which women could be
trusted not to do. For example, we may be
quite sure that they would not squander five
hundred million dollars a year in strong drink,
and then coolly ignore this extravagance, and
threaten to revolutionize the country on the
ground that they were not receiving their fair
share of the wealth they produced. They
would not, we may be confident, strike for
eight hours a day while permitting their hus-
bands to work sixteen. They would not, at
the week's end, spend seven-eighths of their
wages in the saloon,and then beat their hungry
and naked children instead of feeding and
clothing them. But when one thinks of the
suffering and misery which the saloon inflicts
upon women, the opposition it exhibits to
woman suffrage is perfectly intelligible. There
is nothing so cruel, nothing so brutal, nothing
so uncivilized, in American politics to-day, as
the dominance of the spirit which refuses a
voice in the government to that sex upon 
whose virtues, piety, and long suffering every
worthy hope of the nation depends. But the
difficulties of refusing this measure of justice
this logical and inevitable extension of the
democratic principle, become greater with
every tentative effort in the direction of a
broader suffrage. The proposition can no
longer be rejected on the ground that it is un-
tried. It has been tried, and wherever it has
had a fair trial it has produced satisfacroty re-
sults. Naturally, woman suffrage is hostile to
the saloon, whether in or out of politics. It is
to woman the serpent of Scripture. The an-
tagonism is fundamental. radical, inevitable. 
Woman stands for all the elevating influences
in this stage of existence. The home, the
family, the church, the school, all derive from 
her their best qualities, their highest capabili-
ties. The saloon stands for all that is retro-
gressive, destructive, debasing, vile and evil. 
It ruins the home, breaks up the family, un-
dermines religion,nullifies educational agencies,
checks intellectual and moral growth, fosters
brutality, coarseness, immorality, and dis-
honesty. Yet man, enlightened and civilized
as he thinks himself, cannot be persuaded to
trust his helpmate with even a share of the
government whose present abuses weigh so
heavily upon her; cannot believe that the
judgement and clear-sightedness which, if he
is candid and prudent, he is glad to avail him-
self of in private life would produce as bene-
ficient results when applied to the general con-
erns.
	“In this perversity the average man takes a
course eminently calculated to maintain the
supremacy of the saloon in politics. He shuts
himself out from the only zealous help he is
certain of. He deprives himself of the one
ally who is pledged, by nature as by condition,
to eternal war upon the rum power. It is 
scarecely necessary to point out that, if women
could vote, the saloon as an active force in
politics would speedily disappear. Therefore, 
we may be certain that so long as the saloon
holds the reins of power it will oppose all its
energies to the extension of the suffrage. This
is not, however,an additional argument against
the saloon. It is simply one of the conditions
of its existence." 
	If, as is asserted, the saloons really "stand
for all that is retrogressive, destructive, de-
basing, vile and evil," the question arises, Is it 
right to license them? The weakness of the
"anti-saloon" movement consists in the fact
that these establishments are licensed by the
State. Being authorized by law to manufac-
ture and sell, the dealers have a right to de-
mand recognition and respect. Mr. Partons
well says: 
	"The saloon having been permitted to attain 

[Column 2]
its present strength, having been recognized
as a perfectly legitimate institution, it has a
right to fight for its life, and it would certain-
ly do so, whether or not such a right could be
demonstrated. The point to be emphasized is
that the American people are themselves
mainly accountable, and that, while they may
take action to remove what has become a
gigantic abuse, they are not justified in de-
nouncing those who have profited by it as
though they acted throughout with popular 
sanction and scarcely tacit popular approval," 
	If this article has any practical significance, 
it advocates prohibition of the saloons, with
woman suffrage as a necessary means of mak-
ing the prohibition effective. We ourselves
advocate women suffrage on the higher ground 
of political justice and personal right. But
none the less we welcome this new and
progressive attitude of the Atlantic Mouthly.
So far as we . know, it is the first plea for
woman suffrage that has ever appeared in its
columns. We welcome the "new departure." 
—Woman's Journal 
					H. B. B.


