	NOTES AND NEWS. 
	
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar, writing from Bir-
mingham, Eng., to the Inter-Ocean, expresses
great satisfaction in the English middle-classes.
She gives a vivid description of the degraded
position of the women and children in the
manufacturing districts. 

	A regulation as old as the French Academy
of Sciences has just been broken in Paris.
Women have hitherto been excluded from the
sittings of the Academy, but at the meeting of
June 28 the interdiction was raised in favor of
Mlle. Sophie Kowlewska, Professor of Mathe-
matics at the University of Stockholm, and
daughter of the eminent paleontologist. Ad-
miral Jurien de la Graviere, who presided,
welcomed her in graceful terms, and said that
her presence should be a cause of pride and
pleasure, not only to the mathematicians pres-
ent,but to the whole Academy. As she entered,
all the members rose to salute her.  She took

[Column 2]
her place between Gen. Fave and M. Chevreul.
—Scientific American.

	Miss Elizabeth H. Denio, Professor of Ger-
man and Lecturer on the History of Art at
Wellesley College, has made a fine German
translation of Ramona, by “H. H.” The
translation is published in Leipzie, and is
done intelligently, and with a keener apprecia-
tion of the author’s delicate vein than could
be hoped for from a translator less favorably
placed.

	The Twelfth Parliament of Queen Victoria
which opened on Thursday, August 5th, is
likely to prove even more friendly to the cause
of women, than that which closed its brief
space of existence last June. The first thing
of note is that for the first time in the history
of the Women’s Suffrage Movement, its friends
number an actual majoriy in the House
amounting to 344: equivalent to a majority of
14. The next point for encouragement is the
marked diminution from defeat, retirement, or
other causes, of the opponents of the measure,
only about 136 having been returned, the
opinions of the remainder are still unknown,
and it may be confidently hoped that many
additional friends will be secured. 
   At the opening of the last Parliament, the
number of known friends was 314, and the
second reading of the Women’s Suffrage Bill
was carried without a division.  We may,
therefore, hope for a still greater measure of
success during next session.	
   On August 5th, the day when Parliament
opened, a deputation from the principal Com-
mittees waited on Mr. Woodall with a request
that he would re-introduce the Parliamentary
Franchise (extension to women) Bill in the
ensuing session.—Ex.

	A Lady LL. D.—The President of Smith
College Northampton, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
has just forwarded to Miss Amelia B. Edwards,
the gratifying intelligence that his college has
conferred on her the honorary degree of LL.
D., adding that this is the first occasion on
which an American college has conferred that
degree on a woman.  We may add that it is
the first time that any woman in Her Majes-
ty’s dominions has received the distinction.
	The Royal Irish University, which last year
conferred the honorary degree of Doctor of
Music on the Princess of Wales, set a preced-
ent for conferring an honorary degree on a
lady.  But if we would seek a precedent for the
special degree of the Doctor of Laws, we shall
have to go back to the days when the Univer-
sity of Bologna admitted ladies as professors
of the learned sciences in the 13th and 14th
centuries.
	We heartily congratulate Miss Edwards on
this recognition of her services to learning.
Miss Edwards’ name is doubtless familiar to
many of our readers as the author of “Bar-
bara’s History,” "A Thousand Miles up the
Nile,” and many other writings; but it may be
less generally known that she is the indefat-
igable secretary of the Egyptian Exploration
Fund, a member of the British Archaeological
Society, and of the Society for Promoting Hel-
lenic Studies.  Miss Edwards is also a Vice-
President of the West of England Society for
Women’s suffrage.—Ex.


Patents have been issued to women during 
the week ending August 3, 1886, as follows:
	Louisa Cappiani, New York, N. Y. Sheet-
music case. 
	Ellen Dillon, Sioux City, Iowa, Flat-iron 
Heater.
	Ella N, Gaillard,New York, N. Y., Musical 
Watch. 
	Mary J. Holt, San Francisco, Cal., Portable 
Book-holder. 
	Fanny K. Marsh, Bloomsburg, Pa., Dust-pan


