REORGANIZATION.

	On Wednesday, August 18th, a special meet-
ing of the Relief Society of Big Cottonwood 
Ward was held in the Ward meeting house,
commencing at 10 a. m., Mrs. Elizabeth How-
ard presiding. The morning session was de-
voted to speaking and giving general instruc-
tion. Prayer was offered by Sister E. Boyes; 
brief addresses were made by Sisters E. B.
Wells, E. S. Taylor, H. M. Whitney, M. Isa-
bella Horne and Elizabeth Howard. Benedic-
tion was pronounced by Sister Annette Chris-
tenson. At the afternoon session, Bishop D.
B. Brinton and Counselor Milo H. Andrus
and several others were present. Mrs. M. I.
Horne, President of the Relief Society of Salt


Lake Stake, presided over the meeting. Prayer
was offered by the Bishop. The first business
was the resignation of the President, Mrs. E.
Howard, who stated that her reasons for re-
signing the position were, that other cares and
duties required her attention and kept her
absent a considerable portion of her time, and
she felt it was not consistent for her to occupy 
a place, which had necessarily to be filled
almost wholly by one of her counselors, and
therefore she wished to resign; she had con-
sulted with the Bishop, who in consideration of
the circumstances had consented to accept her
resignation. Her resignation was then formally
accepted by the society, evidently with regret.
The Bishop nominated Mrs. Emily Stevenson
to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Elizabeth Boyes and
Mrs. Mary Anderson were chosen as her coun-
selors; Mrs. Hannah Stevenson was appointed
secretary and Mrs. Elizabeth Andrus treas-
urer. This completed the organization, and all
the officers were sustained by unanimous vote;
after which the former members of the Society
were voted in, and several new members came
forward and had their names enrolled and
were also accepted by vote. The Bishop, with
his Counselor and Elder Quist, set the Presi-
dent and other officers apart for the respective
office each had been called to fill. Very timely
and encouraging remarks were made by the 
Bishop, who seemed to fully appreciate the
labors of the sisters in the Ward. Suitable
instruction and motherly advice was also given
by President Horne, who had assisted the
Bishop in organizing, also by her Counselor,
E. S. Taylor.
	Brief remarks were made by the new Presi-
dent and an appointment given out for the
regular meeting, after which Counselor Milo
H. Andrus spoke for a short time, touching 
very feelingly upon the teachings of the moth-
ers. Singing, "Lord dismiss us with Thy 
blessing," etc. Prayer by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	The meetings were very interesting through-
out and a good feeling prevailed.


