[Vol45 | March 1958 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: From | Author: Brackett]
[From Shirt to Slips Hazel Brackett]

I don't know how he'll make out now that his mother's gone.... But youll probably understand him more than anyone else could." There was sympathy in the man's voice, and as Phyllis walked back to her room, she knew that she would be drawn to this orphan boy by the heartache that bound them both. BYU! Joe Bennett was not an easy boy to reach, he was out of school much of the time, and, when he came, he spent most of his day gazing out of the window. Often at recess he would cross to the cemetery to sit by a grave that seemed to be his only possession. Night after night he had to stay after school to complete his work, but he showed no resentment, only simple resignation to what must be. More than once Phyllis had tried to talk to him, to break through the high, tight wall around his lonely, little world, to show him that she was his friend, but she had not succeeded. Although he was never rude, he answered questions, but remained always non-committal. Then one day in November when RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 the hills stood brown and bare beneath a lead gray sky, Phyllis had a strange experience. It had been a hard day at school. She had moved like an automaton, mechanically doing her work while her heart was torn with memories. A wedding anniversary should be spent with one you love. All day long she had relived her wonderful days with Hugh, remembering little intimate things — the way he had said "Hi, honey" and the way he had tried to damp the wave out of his hair — the smile wrinkles around his eyes a dozen different things. Promptly at four o'clock she had left the schoolhouse, the old yearning to get away strong within her. Overhead wild geese, in a patterned formation, winged southward. Her eyes followed them __ pensively. Hugh's, too, had been the wide expanse of sky, the whir of wings that had laughed at her earth-born fears. She quickened her steps. Pll ride, she thought, fast and far, I won't remember. She was getting into her car when she saw him — a lone boy in the cemetery. Joe — he hadn't been to school today. Without a second thought, she closed the car door and walked across the yard to the cemetery gate. Chrysanthemums, bronze and white, carefully arranged in a fruit bottle were on Joe's mother's grave. "It's her birthday," he explained when Phyllis commented on their beauty. "We missed you at school," she said, sitting down on the dead brown grass beside him. "But I know how special days are. It's that kind of a day for me, too, Joe. It's my third wedding anniversary." ONE DAY IN SPRING "Oh." The boy turned questioning eyes to her, he did not know. With an effort she kept her voice steady. "My husband was a test pilot, he was killed last spring in a plane crash." Quick sympathy filled Joe's eyes. "Gee, Mrs. Saunders, I'm awfully sorry. I guess we feel alike—you and I." And suddenly then he was crying — hard, racking sobs. 'They tore Phyllis apart. She put her arm around him and, when the tears had subsided, she spoke gently, praying for the right words. éSJOE, you and I know the same kind of loneliness. But we have to remember that those who have died are only away. One day we will be reunited with them." Abruptly the fair head was raised, and the reddened eyes were filled with a strange wonder. "You mean,' he said slowly, "you mean I will see my mother again?" "Joe!" Phyllis looked at the boy in amazement. It was incredulous. No wonder his grief was so overwhelming. Where were they who should have taught him? What had Mr. Hales said — they had no religious affiliations. "Joe, didn't anyone ever tell you —at the funeral, or your grandpa?" The boy shook his head, "Grandpa only said the dead are dead, and there's no use worryin' about it." Grandpa — what must he be like? Mr. Hales had said, peculiar. Probably doing his duty by Joe, living only for here and now. But how unjust to leave a boy alone, groping in the darkness. "Joe, listen to me, you will see your mother again. Death is some- 189 thing like winter and spring," she spoke gently. "Look at the trees now — brown and bare, but when spring comes what will happen? Life will return, the sap will flow again, and they will leaf out and bloom. "It's something like the resurrection, and it will come to everyone who ever dies. Your mother will live again, as surely as the blossoms return." And while the shadows lengthened, the teacher talked to her student, but she was more than a teacher of everyday subjects, for her words were food for his starved soul. Quietly she told him of God and of the Master who had given his life that we might live. In the light of her understanding, the boy found words to release the tension, to her he opened the door of his tight little world. Darkness had fallen when they drove to Joe's grandpa's house. A shabby, forgotten structure, it stood on a lonesome road behind a hill. The light from two small, curtainless windows pierced the gloom like cat's eyes. As they neared the house, Joe seemed to draw within himself. When the car stopped he got out quickly, and with a_ brief "Thank you," he ran up the path without a backward glance. Driving back toward her own home, Phyllis pondered on the little drama in the cemetery. Had she helped Joe? He had listened and even talked of himself, but how quickly he had withdrawn again. I[f she had helped him, she wasn't sure, but within her own heart was a quiet peace. Had the telling of things she knew, the oral repeating of truths for her own hearing, 190 given her a needed peace?