[Vol45 | March 1958 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: The Red | Author: Duckett]
[The Red Cross and Its Field of Service O. C. Duckett]

And because this was a summer shelter, she had not considered it concern enough to trade alfalfa or cheese for window glass. Instead, a thin, white cloth dipped in hot tallow and tacked directly to the logs let in the light and kept out the wind. The door originally covered a granary opening, but she recruited it for five years, just time enough to accomplish her purpose. In winter, pine slabs were nailed over the small apertures in the walls and the sad little hut was left to buffetings of rain, hail, and sleet. In spring, with the earliest possible chance of wading through mud to its door, these boards were removed Page 166 from the cabin and shunted under the bunk, there to await the planned purpose when the next six months had rolled by. The door faced east, in the approved Navajo fashion, though quite by coincidence; for she was a Welsh gentlewoman. But easterly, she could look up a canyon slashed from iron red hills. Or, at least, follow the course of its inconsequential stream to the first turn. That eastern door was her only yielding to leisure in the whole determined project. Women and children were forbidden to set foot in that canyon. Only armed men, stalking beside logging wagons, ever entered its portals. Indians, in retreat from emigrant trains, claimed its water, its wood, its protecting precipices. But, she thought, if the cabin door faces that way I can at least dream of going up. In flood season the turbulent, treacherous waters of Little Creek» belittled man's strength to subdue it. 'Then it was that the wash became more deeply cut and the boulders moved majestically a few more feet down canyon. Little Salt Lake on the western edge of the valley gratefully received the roily moisture; if there was too much, some leaked over its shallow banks. It glistened as the sun hid behind the Gap and left for the great desert beyond. In stark contrast, at other seasons, came the falling of the water, even lower in the wash, now singing in the carrot-colored sand long before INHERIT THE EARTH reaching the little lake. White children, as they viewed the wash, soon followed the timeless example of the Navajo and Ute children, who never, never even walked through the cool, shady, deep, and sandy bottoms of the wash. It was a fearsome sight, in flash flood, that wall of liquid adobe, solid in its advancing perpendicular front, held in position as by a transparent veil. The ejected water on its descent was the remembered warning to shun the depths of the wash even without a cloud in the sky! HIS, then, was the setting for a solitary vigil whose benefits reached through seventy seasons of harvest: the paint-brush colored hills, the wash to the north, the door to the east, patched quilt on the bunk — these made tolerable a peculiar phase of living prescribed by law. There were other courses to follow, but this woman simply could not bring herself to accept the ideas. For instance, four claimants occasionally built a cabin and dug a ditch for water and cultivated the soil. 'Their cabin was placed so each corner rested on a corner of a quarter section of land. At great intervals an entry man slept in the communal cabin. 'The homesteads were really homelands, they said, and the owners who lived in the nearby communities had a right to do as they pleased. Other arrangements were often agreed upon. One man filed on a claim for several neighbors, proved up on it, then for a fee, gave the others their shares. Two difficulties stood in the way of this widowed homesteader from 167 participating in either plan. First, she did not consider these courses quite right. If the law said you file on it, it didn't mean mass filing, and if a cabin was occupied, it should be consistently inhabited. For her climate, the spring and summer half of the year were less difficult. Second, just where could she possibly get ten dollars a year for five years to pay another claimant for seeing to details of which she was quite capable? The ten dollars to pay the government agent for recording her homestead was a major financial burden as it was. In any case, her little boys would help her make the improvements. During the first three years the soil must be cleared of sage, must be under cultivation with some variety of crops, and a pole and post fence four and a half feet high built to protect those crops from loose amimals. Her course, then, was to have her own cabin, sleep in it by herself, and manage somehow to raise the money for the filing fee. Independence and perseverance seldom have a parallel. Of the improvements, said the law, a fence came first. Have you seen a giant sage whose trunk and roots seemed first cousin to the cedar? One finds it in the Southwest. An area of maturing ls reached where the size of one has diminished to meet the stubborn growth of the other. And when they unite to become a fence, a most remarkable resemblance occurs. 'The horizontal cedar logs interlocked with their fellows down the line, and held securely at their joining by posts set deep in the earth, these make a homesteader's 168 fence.