[Vol45 | March 1958 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Coles]
[POETRY Repeat in Silence — Frontispiece Eva Willes Wangsgaard 145 Let There Be Silence Miranda Snow Walton 154 Woodland Cathedral Caroline Eyring Miner 156 Another Spring Dorothy J. Roberts 163 Clothesline in Spring Helen H. Winn 171 A Pink Shawl Mabel Jones Gabbott 175 Unlimited Alice Whitson Norton 180 Spring Show Pansye H. Powell 181 Urban Spring Alice Morrey Bailey 183 Ideals Grace Ingles Frost 186 Fog Christie Lund Coles]
nize and  direct  it,  but.  Brethren,  do 
you  think  that  men  could  properly 
look  after  all  the  needs  of  the  multi- 
tude including  the  wants  of  chil- 
dren and  women?" 
The  bishopric  chuckled  a  little 
and  one  said;  "Now,  Sister  Jones, 
we  know  full  well  that  when  there 
is  hard  and  specialized  work  of  that 
kind  to  do,  the  sisters  do  it." 
OISTER  Jones  was  quite  serious 
and  asked:  "Don't  you  think 
that  there  must  have  been  women 
to  investigate  needs,  to  look  after 
women  and  children  and  widows  in 
their  affliction,  and,  if  so,  don't  you 
think  they  could  do  it  better  if 
organized?  It  wouldn't  matter 
much  what  the  name  was  but  'Re- 
lief Society'  is  a  good  name.  And 
James  says: 
Pure  religion  and  undefiled  before  God 
and  the  Father  is  this,  To  visit  the  father- 
less and  widows  in  their  affliction  .  .  . 
(James  1:27). 
"Now,  don't  you  think  that  the 
sisters  would  naturally  be  employed 
to  do  much  of  that?  James  again 
says: 
What  doth  it  profit,  my  brethren, 
though  a  man  say  he  hath  faith,  and  have 
not  works?  can  faith  save  him?  If  a 
brother  or  sister  be  naked,  and  destitute 
of  daily  food,  And  one  of  you  say  unto 
them.  Depart  in  peace,  be  ye  warmed 
and  filled;  notwithstanding  ye  give  them 
not  those  things  which  are  needful  to  the 
body;  what  doth  it  profit?  (James 
2:14-16) . 
"Isn't  this  the  work  of  the  sisters 
also?" 
"We're  interested.  Sister  Jones. 
Go  on,"  the  bishopric  said  as  they 
relaxed  a  bit  in  their  chairs.  She 
continued: 
"Then,  there  is  the  case  of  the 
lovely  lady  Tabitha,  one  of  the  dis- 
ciples who  lived  at  Joppa,  which 
seems  to  have  been  a  stronghold  for 
the  faith.  Perhaps  there  was  a 
strong  branch  there.  And  there  were 
groups   also   at    nearby    Saron   and

RELIEF  SOCIETIES  IN  PRIMITIVE  TIMES? 
153 
Lydda  (Acts  9).  Tabitha  was  also 
called  Dorcas,  and  she  was  known 
for  her  'good  works  and  almsdeeds 
which  she  did/  The  disciples  at 
Joppa  were  nionrning  deeply  when 
the  sweet,  public-spirited  woman 
passed  away.  I'hey  prepared  the 
body  for  burial  by  washing  and  laid 
it  out  in  state  in  an  upper  room. 
There  was  much  weeping  while  two 
messengers  hurried  to  Lydda  to  in- 
duce the  great  apostle  Peter  to  come 
to  them.  When  Peter  came,  he 
went  alone  into  the  death  chamber, 
knelt,  and  prayed  and  by  his  Priest- 
hood said  to  Dorcas,  Tabitha, 
arise.'  She  opened  her  eyes,  sat  up, 
took  the  outstretched  hand  of  the 
Church  leader,  and  was  presented 
by  him  to  all  the  saints.  They  were 
awe-stricken.  Now,  Brethren,  this 
woman  was  no  ordinary  person.  She 
was  known  to  all  as  a  public  figure. 
She  was  benevolent.  She  made 
clothes,  for  with  great  sorrow  they 
had  laid  out  before  Peter  'the  coats 
and  garments  which  Dorcas  made.' 
The  joy  was  universal  when  she  was 
returned  to  them. 
^^'gRETHREN,  there  must  have 
been  many  women  among  the 
disciples  at  Joppa,  and  wouldn't 
they  have  been  organized?  And 
doesn't  this  incident  reveal  Relief 
Society  work?" 
'Tou've  been  thinking  about  and 
preparing  for  your  work  a  great  deal. 
Sister  Jones,  since  you  were  called. 
We  commend  you  for  your  devo- 
tion." 
'Tes,  Brethren,  I  am  eager  to 
serve  well.  In  order  to  do  so  I  want 
to  learn  all  I  can  about  the  work. 
Of  course,  I  could  be  wrong,"  con- 
tinued the  new  woman  leader.  "But 
it  sounds  to  me  as  if  the  apostle 
Peter  might  have  been  addressing  a 
Relief  Society  conference  or  per- 
haps a  quarterly  conference,  when 
he  said: 
Likewise,  ye  wives,  be  in  subjection  to 
your  own  husbands;  that,  if  any  obey  not 
the  word,  they  also  may  without  the 
word  be  won  by  the  conversation  of  the 
wives; 
While  they  behold  your  chaste  conver- 
sation coupled  with  fear. 
Whose  adorning  let  it  not  be  that  out- 
ward adorning  of  plaiting  the  hair,  and  of 
wearing  of  gold,  or  of  putting  on  of 
apparel; 
But  let  it  be  the  hidden  man  of  the 
heart,  in  that  which  is  not  corruptible, 
even  the  ornament  of  a  meek  and  quiet 
spirit,  which  is  in  the  sight  of  God  of 
great  price. 
For  after  this  manner  in  the  old  time 
the  holy  women  also,  who  trusted  in  God, 
adorned  themselves,  being  in  subjection 
unto  their  own  husbands: 
Even  as  Sara  obeyed  Abraham,  calling 
him  lord:  whose  daughters  ye  are,  as  long 
as  ye  do  well,  and  are  not  afraid  with 
any  amazement  (I  Peter  3:1-6). 
''Am  I  completely  wrong,  Breth- 
ren?" asked  the  Relief  Society 
President.  ''Have  I  speculated  too 
much?" 
"Your  observations  have  been 
most  interesting.  Sister  Jones," 
Bishop  Smith  answered.  "I  do  not 
know  if  the  early  Church  had  a 
Relief  Society,  but  I  am  sure  that 
it  needed  one.  I  read  the  objectives 
of  the  organization  as  mentioned  by 
the  Prophet  Joseph  as  he  organized 
the  first  group  in  this  dispensation 
as  a  call  to  all  women  to  be  chaste, 
pure,  and  virtuous;  righteous  but 
not  self-righteous;  to  be  tolerant, 
forbearing    and    forgiving    even    to

154 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH   1958 
the  490th  time;  devotion,  but  not 
a  zeal  running  to  fanaticism.  The 
Prophet  says  to  women  to  be  still, 
be  prudent,  repent,  reform,  put  a 
double  watch  over  the  tongue,  an 
unruly  member  which  oppresses,  in- 
jures, and  destroys. 
'The  women  of  the  association 
formed  by  the  Prophet  were  to 
bring  the  guilty  to  repentance  but 
never  to  repeat  even  truthful  guilt 
in  the  open  where  it  could  hurt. 
They  were  to  'rather  spare  ten 
iniquitous  among  you,  than  con- 
demn one  innocent  one.'  They 
should  be  full  of  tenderness,  kind- 
ness, sympathy,  and  let  their  mercy 
run  hand  in  hand  with  reproof;  to 
'feed   the   sheep,   and   not   destroy 
them'  and  save  souls,  bringing  them 
unto  Christ  (D.H.C.  V,  19  ff.). 
And  if  the  organization  was  to 
function  as  it  seems  to  have  done, 
there  must  have  been  auxiliary 
organizations  to  assist  the  brethren 
to  carry  on  the  work.  Whether 
there  were  formal  organizations  of 
sisters  or  not,  undoubtedly  they 
were  called  and  taught  to  do  the 
work  now  given  Relief  Society 
sisters. 
The  Bishop  blessed  Sister  Jones 
for  her  devotion  and  interest.  "We 
appreciate  your  willingness  to  serve, 
Sister  Jones.  We  predict  a  brilliant 
leadership  from  you  and  much  prog- 
ress with  the  organization  while  you 
are  in  leadership/' 
oLet  cJhere   uje  Siu ence 
Miranda  Snow  Walton 
Let  earth  be  silent,  let  the  trumpet  die; 
The  screaming  chaos  of  the  highways  rend 
The  ether;  from  above  the  jarring  cry 
Of  roaring  jets  and  sonic  booms  descend. 
The  raucous  coughing  of  deep-throated  mills 
Merges  with  divers  engines'  droning  beat. 
Clamor  invades  the  cities,  blasts  the  hills; 
Let  mighty  silence  walk  with  quiet  feet. 
Confusion  rules  the  council-halls  of  state, 
Each  nation's  agent  shouting  to  be  heard; 
T'he  babble  of  the  blatant  potentate 
Strangles  the  wiser  statesman's  quiet  word. 
Oh,  world,  confused  and  sick,  just  for  this  day 
Let  sacred  stillness  surge  within  your  breast; 
Let  manmade  eagles  fold  their  wings  in  rest. 
Let  quiet  meditation  bring  the  peace  you  seek. 
For  God  is  in  his  holy  temple  and  would  speak.
