[Vol45 | March 1958 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Fiction | Title: One Day | Author: Young]
[One Day in Spring Sylvia Probst Young]

They are fortified in their marking of boundaries by the everencroaching sage. What pioneer boy has not spent his strength to help clear the land of sage and wondered at its determined grasp of the earth with powerful hold. Then, as the seasons brought him wisdom, he saw new sage advance on his land, stop its march at his pole fence and, in the protective cover, stay its course and remain to defend the fields. From that point on, the living sage was one with hewn posts and poles. 'They became mutually supporting to protect the tilled and seeded soil. 'The railsage fence became part of the pioneer picture; quite in harmony as a landmark for generations. And if the soil had an Indian paint-brush tint, as for the widowed homesteader, the artistry of mother nature splashed her pale pinks higher and higher through the growing branches of the sage and the peeling bark of the posts. A tinge of Navajo sandstone blended the whole into the valley's vermilion. In that water-color study of sage, cedar, and adobe tints, the details became so stained by this dye that a pink hue marked the color of the colony; a study in blended canyon coral. (Obviously, the name of the settlement should have been Red Creek, in American — which it was or Paragonah, in Indian — which it was. ) HIS fence, then, was the improvement the first year. As for living on the acres to fulfill the law, she had early considered bringing one of her half-dozen children each night to share the hours. But the unrest brought by deciding RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 which one, allotting the duties at home, and the general reluctance of little ones to walk two miles, altogether proved not worth the arrangement. That first early spring, she had driven a cart out to the hut, but both horse and cart needed more attention than she had strength to - spend. 'The wheels, the shoes, the road, the roving animal—elusive to catch and perversive to harness— these details she could not tolerate in this dusk-to-dawn schedule. Solitary, the schedule became; neither chick nor child, cart nor horse. She had depended on shank's ponies before — a thousand miles that trek had been — and she could summon them for this part of her plan. Thus, on foot, a wilderness wanderer, kithless for hours, she got the quarter section free! Two things bothered this homesteader — a coral breast pin, and little Sam. One could not say her course was changed by either, but they were a constant concern nevertheless. We'll start with Sammie, her youngest, aged five. He was sickly, or rather on the frail side, and this leaving him every night for six months was perhaps her biggest sacrifice for free land. The older children were patient and loving to him, and did all she asked of them. 'The thirteen-yearold girl taught herself to sleep so lightly that she could arise and cover little Sammie, always a_ restless sleeper. Half awake, shivering in summer's midnight cool, she would hasten to tuck his quilt about him lest both of them become too wide awake to snuggle back to sleep. Early in the game, to save getting INHERIT THE EARTH up, she placed his trundle bed next to her big bed. A portion of the small bed she pushed under the side of her own. Or rather, the trundle was only two-thirds pulled out into the room. In this manner, by lying on her stomach and dropping her outside arm over the edge of her mattress, she could grasp Sam's quilt, pat his head, and both would be content. The homesteader knew of this arrangement on her daughter's part. It was so cozy and comforting to both children that they continued the plan on into the second six months when the mother was at home all night to take the watch care, UT this was not the worst worry about little Sam. 'The unrest came when he keenly yearned for his mother and cried after her as she left for the log house each sundown. He would stand in the doorway and call and cry and plead and stretch out his arms and wipe his tears with his sleeve. His mother would come back again and again to comfort him, more firmly each trip, more inwardly impatient to start out before dusk set itself too deeply. How torn in resolution she was to give up this promise of free earth and stay with little Sam forever. Often he stealthily followed her, hiding first behind the porch posts, lurking near the lilac bushes, and finally, gaining the gate. While her back was turned he would climb over the gate and crouch behind some bushes at the lot's corner. Some evenings he contrived to get as far as the giant sage which lined the hollow next north, and, occa- 169 sionally, sprinted over the bridge and made it to the cottonwoods lining the ditch bank. If he was not caught at these last hazards, he sneaked to the pole fence which guarded the nearest fields and, by climbing under, would shadow his mother as she thoughtfully trod the road. But few were the times he got this far undetected. Sammie well believed his mother had eyes in the back of her head, so sharply did she discern him trailing her. Upon discovering him, she would vary her words in despair, impatience, weary resignation, or by loving encirclement of arms. After a few trials of letting him go all the way, she knew no exceptions could be made. No Sammie, no Jane, no Hebe; just by herself, solitarily plodding. But persistently little Sammie would follow, sometimes quietly, more often calling, "Mother, take me with you!"" Then hand in hand they would turn back home. She would tuck him in bed, prayerfully. She would turn down the lane, resolutely. "Mother, Mother, take me with you," his voice would come back again and again. But the mother had turned into the house. Unforgotten was this call across half the world. But such remembrance neither slowed her step nor turned her back from a resolution to smooth the way for little Sam. Rather, it became as a spur. Perhaps just once, when two thousand miles had been paced to the bunk in the lucern field, she faltered. It was the day Hebe took the wagon for a cord of wood up Little Creek. 'The top logs rolled 170 off the load and pinned him to a boulder, and then the team trotted on down the canyon and finally came home without the lad. 'That was the crisis in a series of mishaps. The horses, patient at the bars, gave no clue as to the destiny of the youthful logger. The homesteader threw a shawl over her head, cinched a light saddle around the belly of Pockets, and whipped her up the slopes to the hills, on over Billy's Hill, and was prepared to race clear to Panguitch. This flight, a flash flood in reverse, has had few equals. By the time the mother pried the logs off her boy, the mounted posse from town swept up the draw, and wondered at a mother in the strength of extremity! The hopeful flock said to themselves, this is the night Mother will stay home! But how they misjudged their woman! In fact, her step seemed more elastic than for months. Sam's cries were silenced by a serene light in her eyes. She whispered to him, "I never thought I'd ever get up Little Creek! And I wasn't even afraid!" - ANP. What is the coral breast pin doing in the homestead vigil? As we said in the beginning, there were two things that worried her from her thirty-fifth to fortieth year. Sammie was one, and a piece of royal jewelry was the other. The point was, the pin no longer was anyone's property, and that was what harassed her. It was lost. It was lost down the lane to the log house. This novelty was the only keepsake she ever owned that was not "hard come by." It was not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 even a gift — but had fallen like a bird from heaven at her feet. It had happened at the only parade she had ever watched. At fourteen, in Wales, she once journeyed from Merthyr to Cardiff to see the Prince of Wales go by! That is, they felt duty bound to see him; but it was his astonishing mother, — Victoria, who had commanded their attention. 'The coal cart which carried them down the banks of the tiver to the sea was quite properly left at the edge of the town, and they had formed a sort of parade of their own Merthyr folks as they entered the stream of converging masses. All to see what a prince and a queen looked like! Viewed on memory's screen, the music was too loud, the throng too large, and the parade too short. Only the soft Welsh songs of her townspeople as they drove home had remained to give peace to her excited heart. For beneath her chin, reposing in the shadows of two pink satin bows, was a coral pin which had dropped to her feet from a carriage in the Queen's parade. She had snatched it quickly, thinking at first it was meant for her; then fearing it was not, all in an instant, she clutched it more tightly. She had waved it on high, ran along shouting for a carriage to stop; but, somehow, one had only soldiers in it, sitting rigidly, eyes unswerving. Some lady for the queen surely would want it. She backed up to where her father was already concerned for her whereabouts. Conscientious to the core, they left name and town at the Government House; but inquiries never came. Finally, her father said, "Wear it, it is yours." INHERIT THE EARTH She did wear it, pink bows and all, until they frayed to thin streamers of silken webs and were left on a large sagebrush as she crossed the Rocky Mountains of North America. The coral, resting in its gold setting of two carved hands clasping to hold it aloft, was the color of her smiling lips. A dozen years of pleasure had gleamed from its polished surfaces— brides had proudly worn it — a sick child had pinned it on her flannel gown to help her get well — scores of Sunday afternoons had_ been more genteel for its glistening on linsey-woolsey — then a youth came courting a younger sister. She begged for it, just this once, to look nice on a walk in the moonlight down the lane. It was not on that dress when the walk was over — down the lane. The valiant homesteader, sometimes by moon's gleam, peered at her feet, sort of looking for that coral pin. But only a phantom parade rushed by, only a vague tint of crimson could be observed in the dust... For sometimes Navajo sandstone chipped by flash floods in Little Creek Wash would make one halt and remember coral, and gold, and pink satin bows. THE law coldly, clearly, said: ",.. Person who is of the age 171 of twenty-one years, or who is the head of a family... And has declared his intention to become a citizen of the U. S. To enter on and take possession of 160 acres of any of the public lands not otherwise appropriated, and by cultivating the same for the term of five years, and paying ten dollars, will, upon compliance with these conditions, be entitled to a patent for the same." Finally, the law was satisfied: nearly four thousand miles,: nine hundred nights... And the one hundred sixty acres were hers. Yes, it said so quite legally over the signature of the Governor of the Territory. That spot of earth sustained her children through childhood, youth, love. When her youngest, that little Sam, needed cash for an education to go out and make something of himself, she sold a parcel of the beloved land to aid him. He was the fourth son to leave the hearth for greater paths; each sustained by her homestead acquired without cost — or so said the land agent. One spring, from afar came a small package — Sam's name in the upper corner. In it was a coral breast pin, made to order from a childhood memory — carved hands of gold — pink satin bows — all as in a Welsh parade for the Queen. A single line was penned: "Mother, take me with you!" >_< Clothesline in Spring Helen H. Winn The summering of days is mood returning To know the wind, to open wide the doors To string bright clothes in a necklace on the morning, To gather them in a diadem of stars. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" A NEW GRANARY AND HALL: A substantial and commodious granary has recently been erected by the Beaver Relief Society, which will enable them to continue the good work of gathering and storing grain for many years to come without being cramped for storage room. The building is of a beautiful magnesium rock and is about fifty feet long by twenty feet wide and a sixteen foot ceiling, and is divided into two rooms.... Last year the wheat was transferred from the old building, the grist mill and other places where the Society had been under the necessity of storing it, to the new granary, approximately one thousand bushels.... —Mary F. White, Sec. QUEEN MARGHERITA: Queen Margherita of Italy has made herself responsible for the execution of a plan to build an observatory on the summit of Monte Rosa, at a height of 4,560 meters. The work on it has already been begun. The queen, who is an enthusiastic mountaineer, is in the habit of spending several weeks each year at the summit of Monte Rosa. 'The observatory will be higher than that on Mount Blanc, and the highest in Europe. —News Note THE YOUNGER GENERATION: We must all recognize the importance of the adhesion to any work of those whose powers are fresh and unworn, and whose share of life will probably stretch through the coming years long after the grass grows green over the graves where the holders of the place and power of today will be silent and impotent for further service. There is a charm in the springtime of life that we all feel and own. Especially is this true of public work. 'Tenderly do we regard the young people who seem ready to lend their growing strength to the causes and efforts that we have carried on for long years — to catch up the banner that we feel must drop from our wearied grasp, and who do not fear to at once take their course, though it be up the Hill Difficulty. —Fditorial -THE SOUVENIRS Oftimes have we been welcomed Into your pleasant home, Where rays of lovely sunshine Upon our hearts would come. You've been kind unto the orphan, You've clothed and fed the poor, And for your acts of kindness God bless you evermore. —Nancy Allred AN INTERESTING PARTY: At the elegant residence of Mrs. Priscilla Jennings on Thursday February 10, there was a delightful gathering of old friends and acquaintances. The presence of Presidents Woodruff, George QO. Cannon and Lorenzo Snow gave an inspiration to the party and added greatly to the spiritual enjoyment. President Woodruff spoke a few minutes.... His words were full of intense feeling and were as a warning voice to all Israel to take heed to counsel and cherish the gospel as revealed in the latter days. —News Note Page 172 OMEN control well over sixty per cent of the personal expenditures of money in the United States. There are 4,455,000 women stockholders in our country. 'They considerably outnumber men_ as shareholders in many large corporations—the United States Steel for one. 'Their holdings are valued at one hundred billion dollars. 'They have another fifty-five billion in savings accounts and _ thirty-three billion in Government bonds. RS. ALMA GOLDSTEIN, a microbiologist with Abbot Laboratories, is credited with the discovery of a new antibiotic, ristocetin, which has proved almost one hundred per cent effective in treating bacterial endocarditis, an infectious inflammation of the heart which almost invariably used to kill its victims. Mrs. Goldstein isolated the drug from a sample of soil which came from the Garden of the Gods in Colorado. M®s MARGARET SPANTON, twenty-eight-year-old woman, does a thriving business selling on commission used industrial equipment—iso-ton cranes for instance. Finding the desired product may require two or three months' searching in various parts of the country.