[Vol45 | March 1958 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Spafford]
EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 

45 March 1958

 Seed ly Sheep: HEN Jesus showed himself to his disciples at the Sea of Tiberias, following his resurrection, the disciples had been fishing through the might. They had caught nothing, but when the morning came Jesus, who stocd on the shore, told them to cast in the net on the right side of the ship. They cast, therefore, and drew the net to land full of fishes. 'Then Jesus commanded them to bring the fishes they had caught and dine with him.. When they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep (John 21:15-16). Fven the second time the Savior said to Simon Peter, "Feed my sheep." This admonition of the Savior to Peter might well be applied to visiting teachers whose calling it is to go forth among the sisters of the Church in their homes and minister to their spiritual and temporal needs. Visiting teaching typifies the concern of Relief Society for the well-being of our Father's children. It is a means whereby we may, in very deed, feed his sheep, not alone those who seek us but those whom we must seek. Page 174 Visiting teaching was born over one hundred fourteen years ago of dire need on the part of the saints living in Nauvoo. People were joining the Church one of a family and two of a city and coming to Nauvoo. Many were lonely and homesick in their new and strange surroundings. 'he winter was a hard one; there was sickness and poverty among the people. The saints had to keep close together and rely upon one another for spiritual and temporal aid, those who had, giving to those who had not. Visiting teaching was Relief Society's answer to the needs of the people in that trying pioneer day. Today, the circumstances under which Latter-day Saints live have greatly changed; however, the need for visiting teaching has in no way diminished. Human _ nature has not changed, nor have human needs. So confused and disturbed is the world today, and so insecure and frustrated are many people, that one almost wonders if the.. Eed for the service of visiting teacherc is not greater, perhaps, than at any time heretofore. 'There are among us those who have drifted away or grown indifferent to the teachings and ideals of the Church. 'There are those who are discouraged and whose faith is weak. 'There are those who are longing for a friendly hand and an understanding heart. There are those who are in need of EDITORIAL a guiding word of truth. There are those who are in sorrow; and, although we are living in a day of abundance, there are still those who need to be fed and clothed. Homes today are in jeopardy. Insidious, destructive influences are abroad. Yet this is a day when homes need to be stronger than ever before to give youth the kind of training and faith that will help them to appreciate the purposefulness of life and equip them to meet it with courage and wisdom. It would seem that the times call for a rededication on the part of visiting teachers to the important assignment which is theirs. It is a time when they could well afford to labor with renewed zeal to make the lives of those whom they visit richer, more fruitful and sweet, and to fortify the homes against undesirable and destructive influences. The importance of the work of the visiting teachers today calls upon them to look to themselves, that 175 they may grow in spiritual strength and perception so as to sense needs and have the inspiration to meet them. If there is a kind word that should be spoken, may they speak it. If there is a soul that needs encouragement, may they give it. If there is a temporal need that cannot be met alone, may it be revealed to them. If there is need for a testimony to be borne, may they bear it. May they bear in mind always that the woman on whom they are calling is, in very deed, their sister and a daughter of our Heavenly Father. 'Therefore, any need, great or small, physical or spiritual, immediate or future, which she may have, is their concern and should enlist their willing helpfulness. Visiting teaching strikes at the very heart of sisterhood. It is an answer of Relief Society to the commandment of our Heavenly Father, "feed my sheep." —B. S. S. ~-<@-o A Pink Shawl Mabel Jones Gabbott Knit for me a shaw] of pink, Pale threads and deeper in loop and link, To wear when I am sad. Catch in one stitch a primrose blush, And somewhere the tone of the rose-throated thrush; Oh, let the center mirror the dawn When the day is new and night just gone, And lost the dreams we had. Edge it with white-pink of apple bloom, And touch of peach blossom if there is room, Blend the fringe from the budding rose To the dusky glow that a sunset knows; And I shall walk by the water's brink Warmed by your love and my shawl of pink, And evermore be glad. Yotes. TO THE FIELD Organizations and Reorganizations of Stake and Plission Relicf Societies for 1057 ORGANIZATIONS Stakes Formerly Part of Appointed President Date Appointed Albuquerque Western States Electa P. Hilton October 27, 1957 Mission Atlanta Southern States Virgie Mae Shuman May 5, 1957 Mission Great Falls Midvale Missoula Monument Park West Murray South North Seattle San Luis Obispo West Central States Mission East Jordan Stake West Central States Mission Monument Park Stake Murray Stake Seattle Stake Santa Barbara Stake Mary Hansen Celeste Millerberg Lillie Cowley Emma S. Longson Grace Utley Luella Bean Janet Maughan May 16, 1957 June 30, 1957 May 16, 1957 October 8, 1957 May 22, 1957 June 1, 1957 September 22, 1957 San Mateo Palo Alto Stake Beryl Warner September 25, 1957 Santa Ana Orange County Stake Mariom A. WoodDecember 8, 1957 house Virginia Central Atlantic Lucille Blackmon June 30, 1957 States Mission West Orem Orem Stake Ella Lee November 17, 1957 STAKE DISORGANIZED Stake Released President Date Released Moon Lake Anona O. Miles November 10, 1957 REORGANIZATIONS Stakes Released President Appointed President Date Appointed Bear River Cora L. Nielson Vida E. Manning ~— April 28, 1957 Benson Mabel H. Pond Norma C. Bodily June 30, 1957 Big Horn Helena D. Belnap Pauline Stevens February 10, 1957 Blaine Donna Lou Thorne Louise Price November 15, 1957 Cedar Claire Jones Alberta D. Morris May 12, 1957 Chicago Elizabeth Kaiser Margaret Weaver July 8, 1957 Covina Lucille C. Hales Lyle H. Facer November 10, 1957 Davis Edna R. France Nora C. Duncan June 23, 1957 Duchesne Faye E. Merkley Anona O. Miles November 10, 1957 East Jordan Celeste D. Millerberg Norma Winn June 30, 1957 East Ogden Belva J. Peterson Mary Stirk March 31, 1957 East Sharon Jane B. Larsen Elizabeth C. April 27, 1957 Hayward Fresno Blanche O. C. Martha B. Richards November 2, 1957 Phillips Garfield Gwen H.