[Vol45 | March 1958 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Williams]
[The Winds of March Helen S. Williams]

Cornstarch (pia 1 tsp. Vanilla p P Mix together very well the mashed bananas and cornstarch, Then add the sugar and vanilla and mix thoroughly. Put poi mixture in a bow! Or pan to fit inside a large pan on top of the stove or better yet, inside a well cooker. Place about two inches of water in the bottom of the large pan, place a rack in the bottom of the pan and set the bow! Or pan of poi on top. Cover with waxed paper and steam for thirty minutes. Place Pol in serving bowl, make a well in the center, and pour coconut milk over the poi. Serves six. -—_- Spring Show Pansye II. Powell Nature's preparing a special treat, Free for the eyes of all to mect— Someday soon in the early spring The tulips' annual opening! Page 181 ff the Shumb Ys Green C. W. McCullough AN'S life history began in a garden. Down through the ages since, people have gardened from necessity for food. It is only in most recent times that gardening has been recognized as a hobby, where a garden is made for sheer pleasure and self-satisfaction. But whether for pleasure or necessity, the instincts of a gardener are in us all. Not that we always follow our deep inborn tendencies. In the case of gardening, the trend is definitely away from admitting to such a heritage. As populations move away from rural areas toward urban congestions, fewer and fewer answer the intimate call of the soil and the mystic challenge of growing things. But the instinct for the intimate participation in seedtime and_harvest, the love of the soil, still cling to a great host of the knights and ladies of the rake and the hoe. As their number, relative to the overall population, decreases, the fraternity becomes more selective, more skilled, until the ranks are increasingly made up of those who garden primarily for pleasure. And because they love the soil, seed, and the wonders of plant growth so deeply, nature responds in a special way to their care, until the world says to them, "They have a green thumb." Because of gardening primarily for pleasure, the question of profit or loss seldom is the most important factor in today's planning. The profits the gardeners seek are often in the coin of satisfaction, health, exercise, pride. They glory in havPage 182 ing their tables laden with rightfrom-the-garden, vitamin-rich dishes —and so often the tables of their neighbors, as well. A successful gardener is invariably vague as to the actual cost of his prize cabbage or the biggest pumpkin at the fair, just as the true sportsman closes his eyes to the real cost of a basket of