[Vol45 | March 1958 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: In | Author: Young]
Gn Mlemoriam Elder Thomas & McKay (October 29, 1875—January 15, 1958) Elder Clifford E. Young Assistant to the Council of the Twelve McKAY ELDER THOMAS E. N the passing of Elder 'Thomas E. McKay, one of the Assistants to the Quorum of the Twelve, the Church has lost a valiant witness of the truth, and the State a valued, loyal citizen. Brother McKay was the son of David and Jeannette Evans McKay and was born in Huntsville, Utah, October 29, 1875. His parents were converts to the Church, his father having come from Scotland, his mother from Wales. He was a brother of our beloved President David O. McKay and between these two there was an affectionate bond comparable to that of Jonathan and David of old. Brother McKay often paid affectionate tribute to his parents. 'They were pioneers in the Ogden Valley and stalwarts in the Church. The son, Thomas, having come from such excellent parents reflected throughout his life their integrity and strength of character. He served as a missionary, stake president, twice President of the Swiss-German Mission, and acting president of the European Mission during World War II. At the April Conference in 1941, he was called to be one of the Assistants to the Quorum of the Twelve. In his ministry throughout the Church, Brother McKay was loved and respected by all who had the privilege of knowing him and feeling a love and confidence in the work of the Lord which he reflected in his everyday life. He was firm in his counsel for the truth, but had a kindly manner so that the most sensitive took no exceptions to his reproofs. He was one who reproved with sharpness when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, then showed forth an increase of love toward him whom he had perchance reproved. His faithfulness was stronger than the cords of death, and he was full of charity towards all men. In very deed virtue garnished his thoughts unceasingly. (See D&C 121:43, 45.) Brother McKay never spoke unPage 155 156 kindly of anyone. He was strong in his convictions, religiously and politically, but withal, did not question the motives of those who did not agree with him. In his public service integrity was his watchword, always loyal and true to the trust the people imposed in him. He gave long and faihful service to the State. To his family he was a loving, devoted husband and father. His wife and children were constantly in his thoughts. His love and devotion to Sister McKay will ever be a source of inspiration to all who were fortunate enough to come in the intimacy of his family circle. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 Jesus taught us not only the way of life—the abundant life, with all the virtues that make life so sweet, but also the way of death; that death is not the end, but the beginning of a new life; that there is in reality no death of the spirit; that we take up over there, "behind the veil," where we leave off here. I pay loving tribute to this great man. We who knew Brother McKay will miss him, but his life, his integrity, his devotion to every trust will ever be a source of inspiration to all of us. In his passing there was released from this life a great soul, o--P-- Woodland Cathedral Caroline Eyring Miner White aspen pillars push against the sky, And emerald laces make a shady bower Against the fiery dome of heaven, that high Above shows blue and gold like summer flower Sun-drenched. I tread on carpet green and lush And kneel where golden sunlight hallows all. My altar is a rock where moss lies plush. Here zephyrs whisper and here sweet birds call In heavenly choir. 'This music, soft and sweet As tolling church bells in the setting sun, Comforts my weary soul and makes complete A symphony with singing brook. 'Then One To whom I pray here in this woodland fair Comes whispering peace in answer to my prayer. Shird Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Wee Pine Knot Edna H. Day ARGARET Davenport stooped to retrieve the morning paper from the front steps where the boy had flung it, and carried it into the kitchen. Jim was finishing the last of his hot cakes. It would soon be time for him to leave for the law office where he worked and hoped someday to be a partner. "Want to see it for a minute?" she asked. "You have time." Jim looked at the headlines, turned to the sports for a_ brief perusal, and then glanced quickly at the ever-growing columns of Houses for Sale. It had become a game with them, a_ just-for-fun morning diversion. "Listen to this one,' he said, turning the paper inside-out and folding it so he could see it more easily. 'hen he read a new one, beginning, For Sale, by Owner. "Sounds like a honey." He glanced expectantly at Margaret, who was clearing the table and stacking the dishes in the sink. "Has a dishwasher, too." "And a counter-top stove, and a wall-oven, and all the latest gadgets. Let's buy it." She always played the game, but lately her tone had been a bit wishful. The home which they were buying was a remodeled older house. It was adequate for their present needs, she supposed, but it was anyGLE LOE EDNA H. DAY thing but glamorous. Not like Jack's and Phil's, certainly, nor Bob's and Jean's new split-level, nor the ranch-type beauty which Jim's boss had just built in the exclusive Lloyd Park addition. "Tm afraid we made a mistake when we bought an old house, Mrs. Davenport," he said, "but it looks as though we're stuck with it." 'This, too, was a part of the game. "See you tonight," it said, as he drew her close and planted a kiss on her soft lips. Jim could still thrill her with his parting embrace six years after their honeymoon. He never gave her a quick peck directPage 157 158 ed somewhere near her mouth in the preoccupied fashion of some husbands. His parting caress was always the same sweet ceremony it had been in the beginning. "Bye, daddy," chorused the fouryear-old twins, Jane and Jamie, standing, pajama-clad, in the door of their room. "See you," Jim called, as he dashed for the bus, just rounding the corner. "Come get your breakfast, you two,' Margaret called. "And then out to your sandbox. I have to wash." She couldn't help thinking how nice it would be to toss the clothes into an automatic washer and go on with her work. Drying clothes in the lovely old back yard wasn't too bad in the summer, but a drier, too,' would be a mighty handy appliance in the wintertime. MARGCARED gathered clean sheets from the cupboard in the hall. Its shelves were unhandy, and the knobs were old-fashioned. She contrasted it with the plain beauty of the ones in the Long's new place which had doors concealed in the lovely wood paneling. She carried two pairs of sheets into the children's room and _proceeded to make their twin beds. It won't be long, she thought, until another bedroom will be a must. Her washing out of the way, Margaret cleaned the bright living room. It was pleasant and comfortable, but she couldn't help thinking that wall-to-wall carpeting would be much easier to clean than the rug surrounded by polished floor, and she had always wanted a fireplace. I've really got off to a bad start. I suppose we should stop our silly game, she thought ruefully. Both RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 of us are beginning to look at this place with a jaundiced eye. Determinedly she put extravagant thoughts out of her mind for the remainder of the day. "Come, get ready for dinner," Margaret called to Jamie and Jane, playing in their plastic wading pool. "Daddy will be here any minute 2? Now. But when Jim came he was not alone. "Met Dell as I was leaving the office, and we decided to take a look at our place and see what he thinks he could sell it for. Not that we want to sell it, Dell understands that," he added somewhat sheepishly, "but it's nice to know how much it is worth if we ever did want to sell it." While dinner became cold, she and Dell and Jim toured the place.