[Vol45 | March 1958 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Fiction | Title: Lunch | Author: Carroll]
ounch At Grandmas Elsie C. Carroll 667 JELLO, Mother. I have to go downtown this morning. Will it be all right if Luanne comes to your place for lunch?" "Why, of course. You know how happy I always am to have her." "I know. But please don't fuss as you usually do. Just a sandwich and a glass of milk is really all she needs." "Don't fuss!'" Of course I'd fuss. Having a guest for lunch always gives me a little tingle of excitement, even when—no, especially when the guest is my little eightyear-old granddaughter. I went to the kitchen and opened the refrigerator and cupboard doors. What should it be today? Not cream of chicken soup. She had that and an apple tart last time her mother left her. A lamb patty. There was just enough cold lamb. Or maybe I should make it into a little pie. I turned the oven on. What if it was extravagant to bake just one tiny pie! The heat would make the kitchen warm and cozy. Raw carrots. Her mother was always worrying how to get her to eat more vegetables. I'd shred them. In cold water it would take but a moment to make them into pretty curls. They'd make a pretty nest in the little green glass boat she loved. Would raisins do for eggs? No, I'd open the jar of seedless grapes Sister Jenkins brought in last week. Sandwiches—I could use the heart and star-shaped cookie cutters and spread them with cheese and slightly brown them in the oven. Dessert? There must be dessert. It would take only a jiffy to make a tapioca pudding—and the top of a bottle of milk would whip—and a maraschino cherry on anything made a party dish for her. I got the little folding table from the closet-—the one her mother used to have, and put a pretty place mat on it. All was ready when she came. "Oh, Grandma! It's a party!'' Stars were in her eyes. While she ate she told me what they'd done in school and what a pretty dress her teacher had. When she was almost through, she clapped her hands when she saw me reach for the painted candy box with my special "company goodies." "May I pick the one I want?" "Don't fuss!" It didn't seem like fussing. I tried to analyze the feeling of warm happiness in my heart just having that little girl eating her lunch in my kitchen. It seems our reactions to any experience are complex. I vaguely felt that this one, simple as it was, had a little bit of the past, and a little bit of what I half-consciously hoped would be the future fused with the present. I was remembering another little girl having lunch in a grandma's clean, log-cabin kitchen. That grandma, in her checked gingham apron with cross-stitch roses running across the bottom, and a tiny white tatted collar on her black dress, was reaching up to a special shelf in her homemade cupboard, which held a few glasses of bright currant jelly, kept for sickness and very special occasions. I was remembering how carefully she dipped out three spoonfuls of the delicacy and put them on a tiny treasured antique plate and set it beside two slices of crusty, fresh salt-rising bread and a mug of cold, creamy milk for the little girl-guest to eat. And vaguely fusing with that memory was a sort of longing that in some musty future day, perhaps another grandmother would be preparing lunch for another little gitl with stars in her eyes, and that she would look back happily upon this moment.