		THE CHILDLESS HOME.

	Many newly-married people consider
childlessness a peculiarly fortunate circum-
stance. It relieves them from many cares,
annoyances and vexations. It abolishes the
nurse, sleepless nights, good Mrs. Winslow,
and the cradle. It gives opportunity for 
parties, balls, the opera, and sundry trips to
the mountains and sea-shore, which would
be exceedingly inconvenient if a little trou-
ble-maker had to be taken along or left be-
hind. There is nobody to litter the floors,
turn the show-articles upside down, and
make confusion generally; and there are no
sobs nor squalls, which those may call "mu-
sic" who have an ear for such sounds, which
our childless people have not. And then,
the landlords are so civil when they are
told, "No children;" that is the "open sesa-
me" to any desirable suite of apartments or
love of a cottage. Indeed, many of our
newly-married folks look upon no children
as the universal panacea for the ills of life,
and the infallible recipe for connubial, and
indeed all other happiness.
	But after a while the brightest and most
engaging couples tire of receptions, theaters,
concerts, and the like. The appetite for ex-
citement becomes sated. The relish for ar-
tificial enjoyments gets cloyed. The desire
for comfort and quiet takes the place of the
feverish craving for active pleasures. To
sit down at home over an entertaining book;
to break the monotony of an evening by a
pleasant chit chat, a few touches of music,
or an amusing game; to be warned off to
bed by velvet-footed dreams, stealing over
the senses and filling the fancy with drowsy
delights—these things invariably come in
time. And then comes a yearning for some-
thing the heart has not, a looking for what
the room does not contain, a feeling after
what no provision has been made for. But
the cradle does not come. The aversion to
care, infantile cries, and confusions of all
sorts, has become chronic; but little Two
Shoes is a tyrant, and wherever he sets up
his small despotism, insists that the "laws
of disorder" shall prevail. The desire for
somebody to pet, and play with, and dote
upon grows to a hunger, which, alas, does
not feed itself, and only gives way to the
more painful need of that sympathy, affec-
tion, friendship, solace and support which
none but a child can supply. There may be
wealth; yet who but a child shall keep at
bay that great brood of vultures and cormo-
rants which peck remorselessly at the life of
whoever has a purse? There may be social
position, and even fame; but how empty and
barren are all honors that must dissolve with
the breath of their wearer? The home may
be a palace; but its splendid halls will be
cold and cheerless as the forecourt of a sep-
ulchre, if they are not made the portals of
heaven by the prattle, the merry laugh, and
innocent hilarity of children, through whom
the Divine Paternity bestows perrennial
youth, and hope, and earthly immortality
upon parents here.
	Of all cheerless, unnatural places in the
world, a childless home is quite the most
uncomfortable. There is something oppres-
sive in its vacancy. Its stillness is stifling.
the heart faints and cries for what is not
there. The home into which the great
Father has once placed one of His little ones,
for however short a stay, is transformed by
that visitation, and can never lose the charm
of that mysterious coming, nor the light
that streamed through the door of the noise-
less departure. That door is open, and no
hand can shut it; and just on the other side
the unseen child engages in gambols, or is
busied with tasks, which it needs but a lit-

[Column 2]
tle imagination, blended with faith for a
parent's heart, to bear. No home can ever
be the same again into which one immortal
being rose to conscious life, and saw a heav-
en of love in a mother's eyes. Birth is the
great sacrament. But the home that has
had no such baptism, cold, dull and dreary
is it at the best, with none of the poetry of
life in it, no legends of angels trailing about
it, and no star shining over it to indicate
that it is favored of Heaven.—Golden Age.


