HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	Grandmother's Gingerbread.—Cup and a half of
molasses, cup rich sour cream, teaspoonful salara
-tus, tablespoonful ginger, mix a little stiff.
	German toast.—To one egg, beaten well, add one
cup sweet milk or cream, season with a little salt
and pepper. Cut in slices. stale bread, and dip in
the milk to moisten, and fry in butter on a griddle.
This we think is an extra nice dish for breakfast.
	Good Johnny Cake.—Beat up one egg eith one-
third of a cup of sugar, add one tablespoonful of
melted butter, and one pint of sweet milk, two
and a half cups of meal, half cup of flour, rea-spoonful of cream-of-tartar and half teaspoonful of
soda.
	Sponge Gingerbread.—One cup of sour milk,
one cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter, two
eggs, one-half teaspoonful of salaratus, one table-
spoonful of ginger, flour to make it thick as pound
cake. Put the butter, molasses and ginger together
and make them quite warm, then add the milk,
flour and salaratus and bake as soon as possible.
	Sponge Cake.—The following recepie for sponge
cake is pronounced excellent: Ten eggs; the same
weight of sugar and one half the weight of flour.
The grated rind and juice of one lemon. Beat
yolks and sugar to a cream; then stir in gradually
and very gently the flour, and the whites of the
eggs, well beaten; add lemon.
	Doughnuts.—One teacupful of sugar, one tea-
cupful of sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of
soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one tea-
spoonful of sweet cream or lump of butter the size
of a hickory nut and spice to taste, roll thin and
cut with a round tin, making a hole in the center
with a thimble; fry until a light brown.
	Breakfast Cake.—In absence of potatoes; or, to
be eaten with butter while warm. Equal parts
sifted corn meal and flour; stir or sift in carefully
while dry one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Dis-
solve in milk (sufficient to mix, and form a batter
that will pour easily into baking tins), one level
teaspoonful each of carbonate of soda and salt;
sweeten to taste. Lastly, add one or two (accord-
ing to supply) well-beaten eggs to one cake, and
bake in a quick oven to a nice brown. Do not
scald and spoil your meal.
	How to Cook Oatmeal.—First, be sure to get new,
fresh oatmeal, as if it becomes damp or old it is
bitter. Put one quart of water into a tinned stew
pan; salt sufficient to be palatable; stir in carefully,
so as not to have it lumpy, three or four handfuls of
oatmeal. Put it over the fire and stir continually
until it has swollen all it will, using care not to
have it burn on the bottom. When it has swollen
all is will, add more water, and then put the stew
pan into a kettle of hot water and leave it cooking
several hours—the longer the better, as the longer
it is cooked the softer and more jelly-like it becomes.
Having the stew pan in another kettle of hot water
prevents its burning on the bottom, and you are re-
lieved from constant stirring, It is good with
milk, syrup, or sweetened milk; or even with but-ter alone.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.
	CATARRH AND LIVER REMEDY:—"Boston
Myra" can cure the catarrh by a daily use of
raw onions as an article of food; at the same
time, use a snuff made of white sugar, laun-
dry starch, and burned alum, pulverized
and mixed in equal quantities—to be used
the same as other snuff.
	For the liver complaint, avoid coffer, to-
bacco, tea, liquors, and  narcotics of all kinds;
use mild doses of Ayer's pills; eat at regular
hours; diet, rice, baked potatoes, beefsteak
and chickens; avoid pork and pork fat; eat
graham of corn bread. Milk once a dat is
good.—"Rural New Yorker."
	SEDATIVES FOR CHILDREN.—The Popu-
lar Science Monthly gives this warning on
the important matter of using sedatives for
little ones: One of the great danger at-
tending the use of the various sedatives em-
ployed in the nursery is that they tend to
produce the opium habit. These quack
medicines owe their soothing and quieting
effects to the action of opium, and the in-
fant is by them given a morbid appetite for
narcotic stimulants. The offering for sale of
such nostrums should be prohibited, as tend-
ing to the physical and moral deterioration
of the race. In India mothers give to their
infants sugar pills containing opium, and the
result is a languid, sensual race of hopeless
debauchees. In the United States the poi-
sonous dose is administered under another
name, but the consequence will probably be
the same."
	RAW TURNIPS.—Some one writes the
Herald of Health:—"I have always let my
children eat as many raw turnips as they
like. I heard a city woman say the other day
they were not healthy, and I believe they
don't hurt anybody. Will you please settle
the dispute for us?" The editor answers:—
"Generally children are fond of raw turnips,
of the flat, white, strap-leafed variety, if ta-
ken fresh from the field before very old and
tough. If they are scraped with a knife they
will not harm healthy, active children.
If simply chewed they are not easily digest-
ed. As a rule, country children have better
appetites and stronger powers of digestion
than city children. They get more fresh
air and exercise. There is more waste and
more want, hence the same rule will not ap-
ply to both classes.
	HARD AND SOFT WATER.—There is a no-
tion quite prevalent in the minds of the peo-
ple that the drinkin of hard water is inju-
rious to health, and most physicians have
warned people to as far as possible avoid the
practice. But Dr. Letherby, an English
physician, who has devoted much time to
investigating the subject, finds as the result
of his observations, that hard water is not
only clearer, colder, and more free from air,
and more agreeable to the taste than soft,
but that it is less liable to the absorption of
organic matter and to the sustenance of the
life of zygmotic organisms, or to exert sol-
vent properties upon salts of ireon or upon
leaden conducting pipes. And he claims
that the lime-salts exert a beneficial influ-
ence. It is asserted that a practical test of
the truth of this new theory is to be had in
the case of the residens of mountainous
districts, where the water is almost invaria-
bly hard and where the inhabitants exhibit
the best physical development. He claims
that water containing six grains of carbonate
of lime to the gallon is suitable for use in all
household purposes, for such water offers
the necessary amount of carbonate of lime
for the support of life in the simplest and
[Column 2]
	A CORSESPONDENT of the Boston Journal
writes:—Paralysis is becoming a prime dis-
ease. It is not confined to the fleshy, the
plethoric, nor to to the aged. The fast life
of our business young men tell on them. It
is a very common thing to see men of thirty
and thirty-five bald-headed, feeble-gaited,
and walking about with canes, their under-
pinning kncocked out with other signs of
premature age. These signs of early weak-
ness develop in paralysis. Sudden deaths
from this cause are very common. Several
have occured in railroad trains; the vibra-
tion seeming to predispose persons to the
disease. Not long since a gentleman died in
one of our churches. He was interested in
a case of discipline. He made a report to
the church on the case, sat down, laid his
head on the back of the seat and instantly
expired. In another case a man not accus-
tomed to public speaking arose to relate his
religious experience. He was so excited
that he could scarecly speak. In the midst
of his remarks he was seized with paralysis,
and carried to his home. Our young men
will have to tone down their style of living
if they amount to anything.


