			DIVERSIONS.

	A WOMAN is generally more economical
than a man, because her "waist is small-
er.
	A CALIFORNIA compositor made an edi-
tor say about a contemporary that it stood
"in the front rank of inferior journals."
	MRS. Partington reading of the strike of
the wire drawers, remarked: "Ah, me!
what new fangled things won't they wear
next.
	AN Irishman returned from his travels
gallantly compared his landlady to Vesuvi-
us, because "she was a fine old crater."
	"THE honeymoon is well enough," said a
prudent belle "but what I want to see be-
yond that is the promise of a fine harvest-
moon.
	AS to the familiar problem—What is
home without a mother?—a Brooklyn boy
says that it is a very pleasant place provided
she leaves the key of the pantry behind
her.
	"PAPA, are you growing taller all the
time?" "No, my child; why do you ask"
"'Cause the top of your head is poking 
through your hair.
	THE name "Kalakaua," King of the
Sandwich Islands, is pronounced Kollow-
kow-ah but some pronounce it Calico, and
others Kill-a-crow.
	WE are told that the smallest hair throws
a shadow. Of course it does, it throws a
shadow over your appetite when you find
it in your victuals.
	THERE is still another point in favor of
narrow-gauge railroads. When the locomo-
tive runs over a man two-thirds of the
body is left in good shape for identification.
	IN summing up the household necessa-
ries, a young husband asked, "Now what
portion are you to find?" "I'll find the
fault" replied the animated wife.
	ALBANI never speaks aloud on the days
preceding the nights when she is adver-
tized to sing, and in various other respects
she is highly calculated to make some man
happy in the domestic circle.
	PEDAGOGUE:—First little boy, what is
your name?" Little boy—"Jule." Peda-
gogue—"Oh, no; your name is Julius.
Second little boy, what is yours?" Second
little boy—"My name is Billious."
	A DALLAS man is so extremely verdant
as to advertise for a lost umbrella—inno-
cently supposing it was taken by mistake.
Such faith in human nature is inexpress-
ively touching considering the state of the
weather.
	A LADY went into a carpet store recently
and pointing out a carpet asked the proprie-
tor what it was. "Brussels," says the pro-
prietor. "Brussels," quoth the lady, pass-
ing her hand over it, "Seems to me the
brustles don't stick up much."
	"BOY," said a traveler to a disobedient
youth whom he encountered, "don't you
hear your father speaking to to you?" "Oh,
y-a-a-s," replied the youth. "But I don't
mind what he says. Mother don't neither,
and twixt she and I, we'ev about got the
dog so he don't.
	IN one of the Cape Cod towns, a young
scholar, the first day at school, was asked
her name by the teacher, and replied. Her
father's name was the next question, and
she did not know his first name. The

[Column 2]
teacher then asked her, "What does your
mother call him?" "You Jackass!" said
the child.
	YOUNG lady picks up the morning paper
and reads advertisement: "A splendid assort-
ment of ladies' corsets just opened at"—She
throws the paper down in disgust. "Yes
they must have been a splended assortment
of ladies that would go down there to have
their corsets opened! They ought to be
sent to prison, they and the rascals too!"
Excuse young lady, she was at a party last
night, and it didn't close till four.


