FACTS AND FIGURES.

	CONNECTICUT ranks third in the United
States as a silk manufacturing State, having
twenty-five silk factories with a capital of
$3,450,000.
	MASSACHUSETTS is soon to have a reform-
atory prison for women, all the officers of
which, excepting the Superintendent, Trea-
surer and Steward, are to be women.
	A VEIN has been discovered in the main
shaft of the Sherman Mine, at Caribou, Cal.;
of brittle silver, intermingled with pure
sulphate of silver, that will pay $20,000 a
ton.
	EX-GOV. Boutwell, of Massachusetts, has
been making very careful experiments as to
what it costs to raise corn in that State. On
his best soil it costs sixty-eight cents per
bushel, but on heavy and harder soil to till
it would cost one-third more, or $1.00.
	IN the early days in the American colo-
nies men who owned a plow had a strong
team and went about the country plowing
for farmers as they do at this day with ditch-
ing machines. Then it took one man to
drive, one to hold the plow, and one to bear
on the beam.
	ALABAMA iron is shipped to Charleston
and thence to England. Upon this change
of affairs the Montgomery "Advertiser" re-
marks: "This is reversing the tide. It was
but a few years ago that England supplied
the Western world with iron. Henceforth
the mistress of the sea' must look up to us
for the all-important commodity."
	THE Toledo "Journal" thus sums the mat-
ter up: "If the ballot can be rightfully
withheld from woman, it can be from the
poor man. If from the poor man, then also
from the uneducated man. If from the un-
educated man, then also from the common
people. If from the common people, then
also from the aristocratic classes. If from
the aristocratic classes, then the king does
indeed rule by divine right, and republics
are the biggest humbugs of the age."
	THE New York "Times" makes an elabor-
ate review of the labor market, its condi-
tions and prospects, and concludes therefrom
that trades are not so languishing as at this
time in several past years. The number of
unskilled laborers is large, as is always the
case. Working women are found to have
as dull prospects before them as any class,
and for these the consideration of the chari-
tably disposed is bespoken. Altogether the
situation is considered far from discourag-
ing.


AN ingenious little culinary implement
was lately shown in Paris at the Exposition
of Gastronomic Products—a novel gridiron
and baking oven all in one. It consists of
an oblong quadrangular sheetiron box, open
at the top and at one end, and standing on
four feet. The top has a netting of iron
wire stretched over it, and on this glowing
charcoal is placed. A gridiron slides in at
the open end under the fire. The juices and
melted fats of the meat, poultry, fish, etc.,
drop into a pan beneath the gridiron, and
no disagreeable odors of burning grease are
given out. No ashes sift through the wire
network on the meet below, unless the fire
is stirred. When it becomes necessary to
meddle with the fire, the gridiron is to
be removed for a moment and then re-
placed. The heat of the fire may at the
same time be employed for the purpose of
boiling water in a pot or kettle, set upon
some sort of stand over the fire.


