		SALT LAKE CITY. JAN. 15, 1875.


[Column 1]
		SPLINTERS.
			LOCAL.
	Some people imagined an earthquake was
shaking the western portion of this city,
about noon last Monday. The shock was oc-
casioned by the explosion of a large boiler
......C. W. Stayner makes the "Nose" a mat-
ter of much interest in his lecture on that
subject, which was ably delivered in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms on the evening
of the 11th inst......Sleigh-riding has been
participated in to a considerable extent by
the beaux and belles of this city since the
fall of snow which closely followed the hol-
idays......There was a heavy snowslide in
Little Cottonwood kanyon on the 11th inst.
......The Board of Directors of the Deseret
Agricultural and Manufacturing Society,
held their first meeting for the year 1875,
last Wednesday......A branch of industry
new to this city has lately been commenced,
that of artificial stone making. The arti-
cle produced is natural in appearance and
apparently durable....A new and commo-
dious school house was lately finished and
dedicated at Mill Creek, being the third
school house completed in that district
within two years.
			PERSONAL. 
	Kalakaua receives so much attention he
is becoming aristocratic in his feelings and
begins to put on airs.....Grant has fears of
pulmonary affection in the Louisiana Leg-
islative Assembly if too much talk is in-
dulged in, so he sends military force to set-
tle their differences for them.... Grace
Greenwood's mother died recently.......
Prince George of Russia has chosen subject
matter from the Old Testament upon which
he is writing a drama......John P. Foley
has retired from the position of editor of
the "National Republican," at Washington,
which he held for several years......Senator
Ferry of Connecticut has been so seriously
ill at Washington as to render it necessary
for him to return home.
			CASUAL.
	"New Lampedo," a British ship was
lately burned at sea. The crew were saved
......At Shannon, Miss., a man named Rich-
ard Barnum, his wife and two children
were burned to death in a recent fire......
A fire on Sunday destroyed one hundred
and twenty-five thousand dollars worth of
property at Batesville, Ind.......Three chil-
dren in Trenton, N. J., were drowned last
week, having ventured on thin ice. Their
family names were Collins, Boget and Ste-
vens......The metal works in Watertown,
Mass., belonging to Mr. Blodgett, were re-
cently destroyed by fire......In Wyoming,
eight persons were lately killed by an ex-
plosion in a coal mine...An eminent Eng-
lish geologist, Sir Charles Lyell, fell down
stairs and sustained serious injuries, but is
recovering.....Wide spread inundation and
distress has been caused in China from the
event of the Yellow river’s changing its
course near its mouth....England had two
railway collisions with fatal results in one
week lately......One of the wealthiest firms
of Yeddo, Japan, known as Onoo & Co., has
failed.......A $20,000 tannery has been
burned in Delhi, Ont.......Eight or ten build-
ings in Clinton, Ohio, were destroyed by
fire the last week in December.......Three
teams and four men were drowned in the
river at Omaha on the 12th inst.
			POLITICAL 
	The Republican: version of the late diffi-
culties in the Louisiana Legislature has
been sent to Congress.....Strange acts of
cruelty and illegality are reported by a con-

[Column 2]
gressional investigating committee in Miss-
issippi....Political parties all over the
country denounce the action of the Presi-
dent in sending military force into the
Louisiana Legislature as a means of settling
their disturbnaces....Abuse of power
among men holding authority is complained
of by the people in almost every State and
Territory, the protestations continually in-
creasing.


