RETRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION.

	In attempting to speak in behalf of our
Young Ladies' Society, I will endeavor to
portray the feelings of all. Should I, per-
chance, say aught they can not approve, I
trust it will be overlooked.
	My subject shall be what we have been in
the past and what we wish to be in the fu-
ture.
	Let memory carry us back say five or ten
years, or as long as we can remember, and
it will readily be seen how often we have
missed the mark. How and for what has
been spent, a great portion of our past life.
We have been too careless, too idle, too in-
different in regard to everything that might
have proved a lasting benefit had we shown
ourselves more attentive. In stolid igno-
rance of the great and important duties as-
signed us by the Author of our existence,
we have let pass the months and years with- 
out even a struggle to gain the knowledge
now so much coveted.
	How many hours have been wasted. How
many days allowed to sink into oblivion, in
which much might have been added to our
store of information. As it is, it can only
be said they are lost days, lost hours to us,
for in them no good was accomplished. Bet-
ter far better that we had never lived them
than to have to say God gave us time to
learn but we would not and squandered it
not thinking nor caring why he gave that
precious time. Can it not be understood
that we will be held accountable for this
useless waste of life?
	In the future, we wish to become great,
good and noble. Not to gain the admiration
of worldly-minded beings, but of God who
never respects the unworthy. The aim is
to spread sunshine and not shade. To help
those who are in need, not merely to pity
them. To promote the welfare of all man-
kind, with disinterested and truly unselfish
motives, thus securing happiness for our-
selves while making others happy.
	Many do not seem to understand the good
to be derived from meeting together and ex-
changing ideas with each other. Nor do
they comprehend retrenchment in its true
sense, and it may be well to say a few words
on this subject. We are organized in a re-
trenchment or mutual improvement society,
it matters not by which we are called. Such

[Column 2]
ested, if it is properly carried on. We do
a society cannot fail to benefit those inter-
not wish to be too strict all at once, lest we
frighten our young friends away at the on-
set. And it is our belief that when fully
entered into, the spirit of our high and holy
calling as daughters of a Heavenly Parent,
the wisdom we then possess will teach us
what to wear and how to wear it. By Heav-
en-born authority we have been forbidden
to follow the foolish and downward leading
fashions of Babylon, and it is according to
our professions to appear in neat and plain
attire. Still we are equally obliged to for-
sake many other things, to give envy and
avarice no place in our hearts, shun every
appearance of evil and not barter our souls
for the fading things of life, but cling to the
principles of right and justice. Thus ren-
dering ourselves worthy the society of the
good on earth, and to dwell with God and
His angels in the world to come.


[Column 1]
		﻿WOMAN'S RECORD
	CHARLOTTE Cushman has cancelled her
San Francisco engagement.
	MISS Carrie Clark, daughter of Henry S.
Clark, lately deceased, has been appointed
express agent in Northampton, Mass.
	THE Empress of Prussia wore in Paris a
crimson velvet cloak lined with rare Russian
sable, and worth twenty thousand dollars.
	Miss Wilson recently realized $6,400 by a
performance in St. Petersburg for the bene-
fit of some families who were made, home-
less by a fire.
	MRS. Annie Mixsell of Orange, N. J., has
accepted an engagement as soprano in Dr.
Conkling's choir, New York, at a salary of
$1,000 per annum.
	MRS. Elizabeth Haldeman, mother of W.
N. Haldeman, one of the proprietors of the
Courier-Journal, died at Louisville, Dec. 27,
in her 84th year.
	THE real name of "Susan Coolidge," a
pleasant Eastern writer for children's peru-
sal, is Miss Sarah C. Woolsey, and she is a
niece of ex-President Woolsey, of Yale Col-
lege.
	MRS. Rousby, a young woman even more
beautiful and more given to wardrobes and
jewelry than Mrs, Scott-Sidons or Adelaide
Neilson, has arrived from England to star it
on the American stage.
	MISS Nancy Monell, of St. Johns, gradua-
ted at a medical institute in New York, and
is now Superintendent of a large hospital at
Lucknow, India, at a salary of $5,000 per
year, and all expenses paid.
	MISS Lipscombe has just been appointed
by the English Registrar-General to the office
of Registrar in one of the sub-districts at
Worcester. This is the first time this office
has been given to a woman in England.
	MRS. Senator Schurz, a woman who is
better informed, and, therefore, more en-
thusiastic on this subject than almost any
person in this country, ardently desires to
be enfranchised. She believes it criminal
in men to refuse it.

[Column 2]
	MRS. D. Chamberlain, an old resident of
Westborough, Mass., was one of the original
band of missionaries that went to the Hawa-
iian Islands fifty-five years ago, when the in-
habitants were savages. Mrs. Chamberlain
is in her eighty-eighth year, and she retains
her mental faculties to a remarkable degree.
She speaks the Hawaiian tongue fluently.
An inivtation to visit Westborough has been
extended to the King Kalakaua to meet this
aged lady.
	MARIE Antoinette was the originator of
the "claque" at Paris. On the occasion of the
first performance of "Alceste," by Gluck,
who was highly esteemed by the queen,
Marie Antoinette, in order to secure the suc-
cess of the opera, distributed a large num-
ber of courtiers all over the theater among
the public, with the order to applaud in pro-
per places. The managers of the opera
house found this mode of securing success
very practicable, and organized a duly paid
band of claques for the purpose.	MISS Jennie Worthington of New Orleans,
principal of the High School, protested ear-
nestly against the expulsion of her colored
scholars. She declared her inability to face
her scholars and do so mean a thing, saying,
"How can I order that bright-eyed little fel-
low never to return to this school?" pointing
to an intelligent looking boy of twelve years
of age, who was one of her smartest and
best scholars. The superintendent relieved
her of the embarrassment. The little fel-
low, with tears in his eyes, begged to re-
main. Again and again he walked back to
his seat, hugged his books tightly, and wept
as if his little heart would break.


