R. S. REPORTS

	On the 7th inst. the Relief Society of the
Eighth War held their annual meeting—
which should, properly have been held on
the 23rd of December, but was postponed
on account of sickness among the officers.
	There were present besides the usual at-
tendance of members of the Society, Bp.
Sheets and Counselor Brockbank; also Sis-
ters E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne, Z. D. Young,
P. Woodruff, and L. Greene Richards. Af-
ter the usual preliminaries of opening and
the reading of the annual reports—which
were very satisfactory—the meeting was ad-
dressed by each one of the above named
bretheren and sisters. President Mrs. Mary
A. Leaver then arose and said that although
the afternoon was far spent, and the time
had been occupied in a manner most grati-
fying to herself and instructive and inter-
esting, she was sure, to all present, she
wished to add a few words in favor of her
sisters in the Ward, and for their encour-
agement. She had found those associated
with her in the Society, always on hand to
do whatever duty required, for which she
felt to thank them. She also felt thankful
that they had a Bishop who was willing to
counsel with them, and render assistance by
way of advice or whatever was needed.
The sisters had mostly come to see the ne-
cessity of retrenching in many ways. She
saw no new hats or bonnets worn among
them this winter; they were wearing
their old ones, some of them had been
trimmed up and made over, but were not
new. This she considered creditable to the
Society. An Industrial Society had been
partially organized in the Ward, they were
soon to hold another meeting to complete
the organization; after which they intended
to produce and prepare for use, everything
as far as possible, which they should con-
sume. After thanking the cisitor for
meeting with the Society and giving in-
structions and encouragement, Sister Leab-
er concluded her remarks, the choir sang
"Beautiful Home," meeting adjourned and
was dismissed with prayer by Bishop
Sheets.


[Column 1]
