A GOOD MOTHER.

	Sometimes one hears of a good wife and
mother, that “she’s a regular home body.”
The phrase is simple, but what a world of en-
nobling qualities it indicates, and what a uni-
verse of frivolity it excludes! The matronly
home body is indeed “Heaven’s best gift to
man.” Dashing ladies, whose mission it is to
set the fashions, won’t you look in upon your
gentle sister as she sits in her well ordered nur-
sery, making her children happy with her pre-
sence? Note how she adjusts their little diffi-
culties, and admonishes, encourages, instructs
or amuses them as may be. Do you think any
nurse maid could produce such harmony in
their little circle? Is she not an enchantress?
Verily, yes, and her charm is “Love stronger
than death” for those sweet faces, where you
may see her smiles or frowns (though she sel-
dom has occasion to frown) reflected in glee and
sorrow, like sunlight and cloud shadow in a
quiet pool. What she is, she will teach her
daughters to be; and blessed are the sons who
have such a mother.


﻿MRS. J. A. Judd a well known milliner
of Norwalk, Ct., was found dying from th e
effects of laudanum, on a bed in her store,
and a note on a stand; gave a reason for the
act, that she had been ‘'troubled without
measure, during a life of many years.”
She was observed to be very low spirited on
Saturday, and she is supposed to have ta-
ken the dose some time during Sunday
night. The store was not opened on Mon-
day, and it was not till Tuesday night that
she died. She was formerly the wife of
Rev. Dr. Orrin B. Judd of Norwalk, but
got a divorce from him, after a long suit,
which exhausted her means, and these
troubles, together with the fact that the
custody of their three children was given
to the husband, were a part of the burden
of her life. She was 52 years old.


Under the new constitution the married
women of Illinois enjoy many special priv-
ileges not allowed them in other States, ex-
cepting Michigan and Nevada. They can
sue or be sued in their own names, have
custody of children when deserted by their
husbands; can make examples of their re-
fractory lords in the courts; can manage
their husbands’ property absolutely if they
remain out of the State a year, or get into
the penitentiary; can direct any business
independently except in a case of partner-
ship, which she cannot enter without her
husband’s consent: and can possess, acquire
and sell real estate as freely as though she
were one of the “lords of creation.” The
wife is not liable for debts incurred by the
husband before marriage, and only in ex-
ceptional cases for those contracted after-
wards; neither are her earnings to be
touched by her husband or his creditors.


THE manufacturers of glass bottles claim
for their business the unenviable distinction
of being at present the dullest and most un-
remunerative of all branches of manufac-
tures.


