	BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

					"The keen spirit
	Seizes the prompt occasion,—makes the thoughts
	Start into instant action and at once
	Plans and performs, resolves and executes."
	Every faculty we possess is capable of be-
ing cultivated to a greater or less extent,
according to our own energy, perseverance
and indefatigable efforts. We may talk of
circumstances, opportunities and resources,
but observation and experience will testify
to a certainty that in most instances, it is,
and always has been, those who have had
the least opportunity, most untoward cir-
cumstances and fewest resources, who have
attained the greatest celebrity. How many,
even in a very limited sphere can we recall
to mind, who have had the most brilliant
prospects opened before them, with every-
thing seemingly favorable to highest de-
velopments of character and intellect, that
have allowed themselves to live in a sort of
thoughtless inaction, carried along perhaps
on the shoulders of influence, with scarcely
an idea of their own, or power to call forth
at the proper moment, a single thought
worthy the consideration of others.
	The usual term applied to successful peo-
ple is, that they had genius. They may,
or may not have had, any extraordinary
gift or talent. Granting they had, what
would it do for them, without cultivation?
If they were incapable of self-improvement,
and happened to be born in poverty, which
is most generally the case with geniuses,
they might live and die, as many do no
doubt, unknown and unappreciated; and
who would be the wiser or the better for it,
or what benefit would ever accrue to the 
world from it? They would not be half so
commendable or worthy of admiration, nor
fill the measure of their creation nearly so
well as the persons possessed of sound com-
mon sense and a good amount of persever-
ance, are able to perform up-hill work, know-
ing that they must depend upon what they
can make themselves, independent of her-
editary, or inherent genius, influence, or
position.
	Perhaps some of our readers may think
this is a subject, fit only for the "sterner sex;"
but in this day and age, the advance of in-
telligence has become so unlimited, that
women are considered capable of improve-
ment to the same extent as their "fellow-
men," and if so, why not of self-improve-
ment? The writer of these lines is anxious
to see the women of Utah embrace the idea
of self-improvement; and would say to them
all, through these columns, whether your
circumstances are favorable or otherwise,
whether you are rich or poor, learned or ig-
norant, you ARE capable of self-improve-
ment.
	I have had occasion recently to call upon
many of the poor who are crowded into
back-streets and alleys, into garrets and
basements, and all sorts of out-of-the-way
places; and it has set me thinking seriously.
What can be done to benefit their condition
materially? The answer comes to me
clearly and forcibly, teach them self-im-
provement. If it is possible to arouse with-
in them a wish, or desire to improve them-
selves and their circumstances in life, we
ought to make a prodigious effort.
	That our city should not become like the
cities of Babylon has been our ambition;
but if we do not mind we will soon have
some of the scum and filth and degradation,

[Column 2]
which abound to such an alarming extent
in the cities of the East.
	There has never been an organization
more conducive to self-improvement, or
more suggestive of ways and means to ele-
vate and develop woman, than the “Re-
trenchment Association.” Every woman
through this channel, has an opportunity for
self-improvement; and if some of our young
ladies whose time hangs so heavily upon
their hands that they are obliged to read
“yellow-covered literature,” and choke
down every sort of trash, that the press fur-
nishes in this “enlightened nineteenth cen-
tury,” would come out to these meetings,
and if they themselves are so thoroughly
accomplished, that there is no occasion for
self-improvement, exert a little of this
power of knowledge in developing others,
they would do great credit to themselves
and materially benefit society. The idea of
any ones saying, they can’t do any good, is
only equivalent to admitting they are too
idle, or too selfish; every woman can do
some good to herself and others by making
an exertion. We hear a great deal about
opportunities, but we can make our own op-
portunities in many instances, if we will;
and it will assuredly reflect greater credit
on us, than to wait for a chance, or other
people to make them for us.
	I could tell you of a woman who had no
opportunities (and less than none if possi-
ble,) to obtain knowledge; who was left an
orphan and had to struggle against all sorts
of adverse circumstances. She did not
possess any apparent genius, nor was she
beautiful enough to attract the attention of
any “good fairy;” but she had energy, per-
severance and determination; she was in-
dustrious and untiring in her efforts for self-
improvement. She came to me a little girl
in Winter-Quarters where there were no
advantages favorable to education, and
asked me to help her with some sums; I
never saw her before, but I have known her
ever since; and I can say truthfully that she
is a self-made woman. To-day she is capa-
ble of conversing upon almost any solid sub-
ject, and all the general topics of the day;
besides having a home of her own provid-
ing. How many girls are there in Utah,
capable of developing into women of mind,
of character, and of taking an active and
efficient part in the business of practical
life?
	Girls don’t be afraid of the term "strong-
minded," for of such there is certainly a ne-
cessity; the stronger you are in mind and body
the better for you, and exceedingly better
for the next generation. If you want noble
women, make yourselves such by your own
merits; do not wait for any other person to
bring you forward; study self-improvement,
in mind, in manners, in temper and disposi-
tion. No matter how old we are, while we
retain our faculties, we are susceptible of
self-improvement. I was talking to a very
old lady not long since, who told me she
had improved herself wonderfully in the
last few years. Said she, “I used to be rude
and abrupt to people, bitter in my feelings,
and of a sour temper. No one could please
me; but since I have become too old for hard
work, I have been cultivating myself, and I
am not like the same woman.” 
	Well, let us commence now, and not wait,
and lend to each other a helping hand in
the work of self-improvement.
	Salt Lake City Jan 12th, 1875.


By a vote of the faculty of Harvard 300
marks of censure will be sufficient this year
to prevent seniors from getting their degree,
and 200 marks will give a special probation.


