		"WOMAN'S RIGHTS."

	Do I believe in woman's rights? Yes,
I believe in them in many ways besides that
of voting. But in the first place, I solemnly
protest against womans being judged, con-
demned and punished according to the laws
that she has had no hand in making. In-
deed I think there is great need of a revo-
lution in the sentiments of both men and wo-
men as well as laws. We frequently read in
the newspapers of the day, of one man run-
ing away with another man's wife. In a late
case of this kind, after a few weeks of sin-
ful pleasure, the runaways got sick of their
folly and returned to their families. In the
evening the returned gentleman was seen
riding out with his wife. His friends con-
gratulated him on his return, and pittied
him "poor fellow," for being led away by
that bad, bold woman. It was not his fault,
and his wife ought to be proud of such a
nice honorable man for her husband, if she
was a virtuous woman. But how was it
with the woman whom he had seduced
away from her home? Was she taken back
to her family? No! She was not fit for the
companionship of innocent babes, and the
bosom of her noble husband. Oh dear!—
no! He would get a divorce and turn her
out to infamy and a life of shame. For now,
who would befriend her? She was only a
woman; therefore she had no right to ex-
pect any mercy.
	True, the law of Moses provided for such
cases as the above, that the guilty parties
should be stoned to death. I should have
no objection to such a law now, as long as they
were to stone the man as well as the woman.
But it seems that eighteen hundred years ago
the world was as bad as it is now. For then
they brought a woman before Jesus saying,
Master, this woman was caught in the act of
adultry; what shall he done with her? What
sayest thou? And Jesus said to them, "he
that is without sin among you, let him first
cast a stone at her." And they which heard
it, being convicted by their own conscien-
ces, went out one by one beginning at the
eldest unto the last, and Jesus was left alone
and the woman standing in the midst.
When Jesus saw that the woman was left
alone, he said unto her, "woman hath no man
condemned thee?" And she said "No man,
Lord." And he said "Neither do I con-
demn thee; go and sin no more."
	I remember some years ago while riding
home with some neighbors after an after-
noon conference, some remarks were made
about President Young's teachings in re-
gard to the treatment of the Elders to their
wives. The driver of the wagon who was
an Elder, said, "Do you think I would ever
ask forgiveness of a woman! I answered
him, "If you should do your wife an injury,
would you not rather ask her forgivness,
than let the feeling created by the wrong
she had suffered rankle in her breast against
you? “No! never would I stoop so low as
to ask forgiveness of any woman!"
	I presume many if not all, who read this
article, have heard similar expressions from
similar ignorant men. Now I would ask,
what is there in man that he should consid-
er himself so much better than his better-
half! If he sprang from the Deity, did not
woman also? If he is made of mettle like
that the Gods are made of, is not woman
made of the same? If he came from his
Father's loins, and was nurtured upon his
Mother's lap, what other place did his sis-
ter come from that she should be accounted
so inferior to him? If the Lord had a pur-
pose in creating the male part of humanity,
had he not equally as good a purpose in cre-
ating the female part also? Or did He make

[Column2]
her simply to bear the faults of man?
	I know we are taught that Eve was the
first to sin. Well, she was simply more
progressive than Adam. She did not want
to live in the beautiful garden for ever, and
be nobody—not able even to make her own
aprons.						E. N. B.
	Ogden.


