OUR NUMERALS.

	A correspondent asks, "What is the ori-
gin of our present nine figures, 1, 2, 3, etc.?
I am aware they are Arabic, but how came
they to assume their present form? What
gave the figures 8 and 7, for instance, their
peculiar forms? 3 and 5 are alike, with the
tops turned different ways; 6 and 9 are the
same only reversed. If you can give your
readers any light on this somewhat recon-
dite topic, they would be obliged."
	Recently laborious researches have devel-
oped the fact that the numerals now in use
are not of Arabic origin. They are to be
reckoned among the ingenious inventions of
the Brahmins of India, and date back to
some undetermined period before the Chris-
tian era. An obscurity which scholars have
thus far been unable to clear up envelops the
inquiry as to the time they first became
known to the Arabs and were introduced
into Europe. It is supposed by the most
learned writers on the subject that the Arabs
obtained their knowledge of the characters
through the Persians, who were conquered
by them in 636, and adopted their religion
and one of their dialects. The so-called
Arabic figures resemble the Persic charac-
ters, which are those in popular use through-
out India. Trustworthy authorities fix the
period at which the Arabs acquired the nu-
merals as late as the middle of the thirteenth
century. Others believe the figures, called
"Gobar" by the Arabs, were brought to Bag-
dad during the reign of Al-Mansor (760) or
his immediate successors, and certainly not
later than the time of Al-Mamum, and
thence were carried to Spain during the end
of the tenth or beginning of the eleventh
century.
	A knowledge of the so-called Arabic fig-
ures was soon communicated to the learned
men of Europe. The astronomers of France
and Germany seem to have first employed
them in the fourteenth century, in compos-
ing calendars, which were sent to the vari-
ous religious houses. By this means the
characters were generally diffused through
Europe. One of the oldest authentic dates
in the Arabic numerals is that of 1375, which
was written by Petrarch in a copy of St.
Augustine. The college accounts in the
English universities were generally kept in
the Roman numerals until the beginning of
the sixteenth century. The Arabic charac-
ters were not used in the parish registers
before 1600. The oldest date met with in
Scotland is that of 1490, which occurs in the
rent-roll of the Diocese of St. Andrew's.
	The forms of several of the figures have
undergone considerable change since their
first introduction into Europe. In the old-
est manuscripts the figures 4, 5 and 7 are
most unlike the present characters. The 4
consists of a loop with the ends pointing
down; the 5 has some likeness to the figure
9; and the 7 is simply an inverted V. In
the dates used by Caxton in the year 1480,
the 4 has assumed its present shape, but the
5 and 7 are still very unlike the same char-
acters of to-day. There is no reason assigned
for these changes, which appear to have
been gradual, and the result of choice rather
than introduction. Nor have we ever met
with any attempt to attach an especial sig-
nificance to the forms of the numerals. If
there be a symbolism hidden in their mold
it has yet to be unveiled.—Chicago Tribune.


﻿IN boring for water on the farm of Mr.
Hugenin, in the vicinity of Sheridan, Ill.,
after going through one hundred feet of
solid rock, a vein of coal five feet in depth 
was struck.


