CHOOSING A SCHOOL.

	As no people experience so many vicissitudes
in a generation as the Americans, none stand
in greater need of a universal and practical ed-
ucation. Fortune is so extremely fickle in
this western world, where the onrushing tide
of humanity is subject to a thousand influ-
ences, where speculation is rife, extravagance
is on the increase, and impatience is the ruling
passion of the hour, men and women need to
be prepared for any fate. And to this end they
must possess that knowledge which will prove
of use in the hour of trial. Whatever may
have been the condition of women in other
ages and lands, in the United States of to-day
the exigences of the hour are such that a prac-
tical education for them can no longer be safe-
ly ignored. Girls need something more sub-
stantial than the accomplishments, sentiment,
and poetry, with which to go out into life and
fight its battles. If all women were Lady An-
gelinas and Baroness Bountifuls, with inherit-
ed establishments and adequate incomes, then
piano playing, waltzing, a smattering of French
and a course of moral philosophy and English
literature might suffice to float through life.
But even among such a class we should expect
to see much foolishness, perhaps absolute wick-
edness, vanity, extravagance, and butterfly ex-
istence ill becoming a human being. No mat-
ter how proud a position a woman may occupy
in America to-day, as the wife of a President or
Senator, as the daughter of a merchant of
wealth, or a great banker, to-morrow she ex-
periences reverses which require all her forti-
tude to meet, and possibly demand mental or
physical exertion on her part to secure the nec-
essaries of life. Instances like these are innu-
merable in our history, while the large class of
women who are not born to wealth, and have
little prospect of getting on in the world, stand
in equal need of knowing how to do something
which shall bring a price; how to accomplish
that which shall render them independent, and
be of use to others. Realizing these conditions,
parents, who, at this season of the year; are
seeking the best schools in which to place their
daughters, will naturally choose where there is
a judicious mingling of the practical with the
ornamental. Many schools and colleges for
ladies now give instruction in scientific and
practical matters, laying the foundations of an
education upon which a successful and shelter-
ing superstructure can be reared afterward.
Every fond father loves to see his daughter
beautiful, rosy-cheeked, sweet-voiced, healthy,
delicate-handed, interesting and accomplished;
he should also, wish to see her sensible, self-
sustained, wise and provided with the best ar-
mor he can give her for warding off the stings
and arrows of an outrageous fortune.—Ex.


SEVEN hundred female telegraphists are
employed in the central London Post Office.
Their wages vary from 14s. to 16s. a week.


