HOME AFFAIRS.

	People residing in the Southern settle-
ments of Utah county will enjoy the conve-
nience of passenger trains running daily on the
Utah Southern Railroad, between this city and
Payson, on and after the 20th inst.
	KING KALAKAUA the Hawaiian sovereign, it
is expected will soon be in our midst on his re-
turn west. The city council has instructed
Mayor Wells to invite his majesty to visit and
accept the hospitalities of the city.
	THE MUSICAL association, which comprises
the best musical talent in the city, we under-
stand has in preparation the "Oratorio of the
Messiah;" one of the finest productions of that
great German master of harmony, George Fred-
erick Handel.
	A NEGRO woman in Ophir, called Fanny
Payne, was recently arrested for the shooting
of another woman by the name of Bennett.
The ball was extracted, and Mrs. Bennett was
likely to recover at last accounts.
	BECAUSE SLEIGH riding is a healthful, lively
and exhilerating amusement, we do not see
the necessity of horses being driven to death
in executing their part of it. Yet such has
been the case in several instances in this city
during the past two weeks; which is, to use the
mildest term, shameful.
	Mr. James Dwyer has favored us with Jan-
uary numbers of the “Popular Science Month-
ly,” “Scribners Monthly," the “Atlantic
Monthly" and "Harper's New Monthly Maga-
zine." These books contain some excellent
reading, and can be obtained, any one, or all of
them, at Dwyer's Book Store, Main Street.
	The subject of closing balls and parties by
midnight has been under discussion in some of
the counsel meetings in this city. We suggest
to our young lady friends, the propriety of giv-
ing their escorts to understand that eleven or
twelve o'clock is their time for retiring from
such places of entertainment; thus lending
their influence to assist in a good cause.
	A gentleman of Santaquin pays us a pleas-
ant compliment. He writes, enclosing sub-


scription money, and says: "Although I am
an old bachelor, I delight in reading your ex-
cellent paper, and would go without a new hat
rather than do without it. It is brim full of
good common sense reading; wish every body
would take it." We return thanks, and think
our bachelor friend deserves to become the hus-
band of some good, loving, faithful fair one.
	THE SAINTS at St. George celebrated New
Year's day by meeting in a general grand gath
ering for religious worship. They were ad
dressed by President Geo. A. Smith and others
and extracts from various works were read, in
cluding writings by Col. Thomas L. Kane and
Captain Codman, relating to the Mormons.
President Young sent greetings and blessings
to the people, and desired a continuation of the
prayers of the Saints that his health might
continue to improve.


[Column 1]
ETIQUETTE OF THE. REPUBLICAN
			COURT. 
[From the American Historical Record.]
	When Washington was inaugurated the
first President of the United States, he
found it necessary to establish and fix rules
concerning the reception of visitors, in or-
der to have time to attend to his official du-
ties properly. The precedents of monar-
chy might not be followed with consistency,
but at the same time there were good rea-
sons, for the chief magistrate assuming a
certain degree of dignity and reserve on all
occasions. The rules that should govern
the Republican court had, therefore, to be
made without a precedent. Accordingly
Washington addressed a note to Colonel Al-
exander Hamilton,telling him that it was his
wish to adopt some system as, without over-
stepping the bounds of Republican simplic-
ity, would best maintain the dignity of the
office and secure the President such a com-
mand of his time as was necessary to a
proper performance of his official duties,
and asking Hamilton to make suggestions.
This he did about a week after the inaugu-
ration, and to Colonel Humphreys, a former
aid-de-camp to Washington, and who had
then recently been Secretary of the Ameri-
can Legation at Paris, was left the arrange-
ment of the details of etiquette. It was de-
cided that the President should not return
visits; that formal invitations to dinner
should be given only to official characters
and distinguished strangers, and that vis-
its of mere courtesy should be confined to
the afternoon of Tuesday in each week.
Washington was compelled, at times, to set-
tle instantly a point connected with official
etiquette, himself. In his diary of Sunday
the 15th of November, 1789, he wrote: “Re-
ceived aninvitation to attend the funeral, of
Mrs. Bosevelt, (the wife of a Senator of
this [New York] State) but declined com-
plying with—first because the propriety of
accepting any invitation of this sort ap-
peared questionable—and secondly (though
to do it in this instance might not be im-
proper) because it might be difficult to dis-
criminate in cases that might hereafter hap-
pen.” This separation of the President’s
public life from that of a public citizen dur-
ing his administration, has been kept up
until within the last few years.
	After the arrival of Mrs. Washington at
or near the close of May (1789), it was ar-
ranged that she, too, should have a weekly
reception. Accordingly the drawing-room
of the presidential mansion was open from 8
till 10 o’clock every Friday evening for
visits to Mrs. Washington, at which her
husband was usually present until 9 o’clock,
when he not only retired from the room but

[Column2]
to his bed, that being his accustomed hour
for retiring at his home at Mt. Vernon. At
Mrs. Washington’s reception was generally
seen the cultivated portion of society—per-
sons (and their families) connected, with the
Government, and all whose social positions
entitled them to recognition in refined cir-
cles. On such occasions all were required
to appear in full dress.	
	The President soon adopted the rule of
giving a dinner party every Wednesday, to
members of Congress and of his Cabinet,
Embassadors and other eminent persons,
who were always formally invited by
card.
	Sometimes he would have few and some-
times many at these dinner parties; and
frequently the secretaries or ministers only
would be invited for the purpose of discuss-
ing cabinet questions over a bottle of wine.
Mrs. Cushing, wife of Judge William Cush-
ing, of the Supreme Court, who adminis-
tered the oath of office to Washington at his
second inauguration, wrote from Philadel-
phia on the 2d of April, 1795:—“We dined
to-day with the President and Mrs. Wash-
ington, in company with Mr. and Mrs. Ham-
mond,the Chevalier and Madame Frore,(who
is truly an elegant woman) Don Philip Jau-
dennes and his lady, Mr. and Mrs. Van
Breckel, Mr. and Mrs. Randolph, Mr. and
Mrs. Walcott, Mr. and Mrs. Pinckney, Mr.
and Mrs. Coxe, Madame Frere and Mad-
ame Jaudennes were brilliant with dia-
monds." Hammond was the British Min-
ister; Van Berckel was the Minister from
Holland; the Chevalier Frere was the rep-
resentative of Portugal, and Jaudennes was
the Spanish Minister.
	Washington gave a farewell dinner on
the eve of retirement from public life, on
which occasion he sent out his invitation
cards for the last time. “To-morrow,” he
wrote to Gen. Knox on the 2d of March,
1797, “at dinner, I shall, as a servant of the
public,take my leave of the President elect,
of the foreign characters, the heads of de-
partments, etc.” To that dinner as many
were invited as could be seated at the table-
The late venerable Bishop White of Penn-
sylvania was present. "During the din-
ner,” he afterwards wrote to a friend,
“much hilarity prevailed; but on the re-
moval of the cloth it was put an end to by
the President—certainly without design.
Having filled his glass, he addressed the
company with a smiling countenance, say-
ing ladies and gentlemen, this is the last
time I shall drink your health as a public
man. I do it with sincerity, wishing you
all possible happiness.' There was an end
to all pleasantry.” It is said that tears suf-
fused the cheeks of several who were pres-
ent, especially some of the ladies, who had
become much attached to the President and
Mrs. Washington.


The good boy at present is almost extinct.
There are many boys who are very good while
they are sick, when attending funerals, and when
sleceping. But at other times! Well—The bad
boy is a fellow who will bear watching. When
he does wrong he should be corporally rebuked,
with a good dose of Solomon's birch tonic. One
of these bad boys has been trying to find a virtu-
ous stage-driver. His test is to hit the driver in
the head with a turnip or potato; then if he swears,
he is a bad man—if not, he is very virtuous. The
same boy has tested fifty-six drivers, and found
but one virtuous man. The man was dumb.


DURING the month of November three
hundred and sixty-four new Granges were
organized in the United States.


