IS IT FAIR?

	We were on the way to Sunday school last
Sabbath, when the sound of infant voices at-
tracted our attention. One voice was that of a
little girl speaking between sobs, in a grieved
and angry tone.
	"You did too! you pushed me over, and I'll
tell mother!" she said.
	Sure enough, she had been pushed and caused
to slip down, by a domineering little brother,
because they both wanted to take charge of a
younger member of the family, which accom-
panied them. And there was the little miss
with her stockings all muddy, her apron mussed
and worst of all, her delicate feelings wounded
by the rude conduct of her brother.
	O man! we thought, the spirit manifested by
this burly urchin is but a fac-simile of that
which you, in your great want of discernment,
so universally extend to your sisters.
	No wonder the cry has been sounded, "Wo-
man arouse thee!" On every hand has she been
thrust aside when she has sought to gain a posi-
tion or accomplish a work of which her stern
brother has accounted her unworthy or incapa-
ble. There was quite as much justice shown in
the act of that arrogant child, when he pushed
his sister down in the mud, as is generally rep-
resented in the acts of men toward their strug-
gling sisters.
	These thoughts were not awakened through
pain of immediate or personal injuries. It is
but just for us to say that, so far as individual
experience extends, we have never met with
other than encouraging treatment from our
lordly friends in attempting self-advancement
or the accomplishment of any good whatever.
In fact, to be not only gentlemanly and oblig-
ing in every true sense of the word, but also co-
adjutant in every instance wherein woman
seeks the genuine welfare or promotion of any
worthy person or cause, is one thing that the
true Morman man holds to be a duty. And we
have no occasion to complain of the nonper-
formance of that duty on the part of any gen-
tleman upon our list of friends.
	If every woman in the United States could
thus speak truthfully, there would be no neces-
sity for Woman Suffrage meetings being held
all over the country. Instead of spending pre-
cious time to establish the great truth that wo-
man's voice as well as man's should be heard
in all matters of public interest, in as much as
she must abide the laws which are made for the
public benefit, these women might be employed
in gardening or teaching school, or any other
good and useful pursuit. But the people do not
comprehend it, hence the delay and expense of
time and strength.
	But any man of good sense would say that
in the case of the Sunday School children which
we have exemplified, the brother acted unkind-
ly and unfairly. We say, not more ungener-
ously or unjustly than do those men who would
deny their sisters any legitimate right.


