A SPLENDID DESCRIPTION.

	On a certain occasion one Paul Denton, a
Methodist preacher in Texas, advertised a bar-
becue, with better liquor than is usually fur-
nished. When the people had assembled, a
desperado in the crowd cried out:
	"Mr. Paul Denton, your reverence has lied.
You promised not only a good barbecue, but
better liquor. Where's the liquor?"
	“There!” answered the missionary, in tones
of thunder, and pointing his long, bony finger
at the matchless double spring gushing up in
two strong columns with a sound like a shout
of joy from the bosom of the earth. "There!"
he repeated, with a look terrible as lightning,
while his enemy fairly trembled at his feet;
"there is the liquor which the God Eternal
brews for all his children. Not in the simmer-
ing still, over smoky fires choked with poison-
ous gases, and surrounded with the stench of
sickening odors and corruption, doth your
Father in Heaven prepare the precious essence
of life—pure cold water. But in the glade and
grassy dell; where the deer wander and the
child loves to play, there God brews it; and
down in the deepest valleys, where the foun-
tain murmurs and the rills sing; and high up
on the mountain tops, where the granite
glitters like gold in the sun, where the storms
crash; and out on the wild, wild sea, where
the hurricane howls music, and the big waves
roar chorus; sweeping in the march of God—
there he brews it—the beverage of life, health-
giving water. And everywhere it is a thing of
beauty—gleaming in the dew-drop, singing in
the summer rain, shining in the ice gems, till
they seem turned to living jewels, spreading a
golden veil over the setting sun, or a white
gauze around the midnight moon; sporting in
the cataract, sleeping in the glazier, dancing
in the hail shower, folding its bright curtains
softly around the wintry world, and weaving
the many-colored iris, the seraph's zone of the
air; whose warp is in the rain-drops of the
earth, and whose woof is in the sunbeams of
Heaven, all checkered over with the celestial
flowers of the mystic hand of refraction—that
blessed, life-water. No poison bubbles on its
brink; its foam brings not madness and mur-
der; no blood stains its liquid glass, pale widows
and starving children weep not burning tears
in its depths! Speak out, my friend—would
you exchange it for the demon's drink, al-
cohol?"
	A shout like the roar of the tempest answer-
ed—"No!"


