			THE LAW."

	Love, the holy influence it sheds, and the
power and energy it lends are the sacred charms
which make the joys and pleasures of life so
sweet, its cares, perplexities and bitter griefs
endurable. Love is the soul creator of every
pure delight. What makes the smiling infant
in its mother's arms so innocently happy, but
the power of love which encircles it? Such
unmistakable tokens of deep, decided and un-
selfish affection as are constantly lavished upon
"the baby," by all around it, would undoubt-
edly serve to render most satisfactory the lives
of men and women. What other earthly bliss
can equal that which accompanies the sweet
assurance of love reciprocated? And, indeed,
there can be no other sorrow so consummate as
that which comes with a knowledge of the
hopeless loss of love from one beloved.
	If there is a pitiable thing in all the Lord's
creation, it is the being who exists without
love.
	"You are a naughty girl, and I don't love
you!" were the actual words—thoughtless,
cruel, false words of a mother to her four year
old daughter, whose offense was merely the
continued asking of questions about the pies
which were being made, after she had been told
to be still. A few moments had passed when
the child was discovered, sinking down in a cor-
ner of the room and sobbing as though her little
heart was breaking. When questioned con-
cerning her troubles, her answer came with a
passionate burst of grief—“My mother don’t
love me!” Did ever mortal lips give utterance
to a more touching expression? No wonder the
tried and tired heart of the mother grew sud-
denly sore and penitent.
	Remember mothers, when perchance your
own hearts are starving for that great essential
stimulus, love, that the undeveloped minds and
hearts of your little ones are most impressive
and sensitive. And as you pray God to supply
your wants, withhold not from your children
the sweet portion of bounteous love.
	When husbands and wives love each other as
they should do, when parents love their chil-
dren according to the pattern set by the great
Elohim, and brothers and sisters, relatives,
friends and neighbors love as they have all been
commanded of God; then will universal peace


reign, eternal happiness be established, and the
Law fulfilled.


