VOL. 11	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1883.	No. 16


HELEN AND VIRGINIA. 

My friend, when once you asked of me
My reason for the truth I bear,
I answered briefly, for my gift
Is not in language as with men
Accustomed through their lives to share
Conflicts in pulpit or by pen. 

And so unsatisfied, I turn
To answer further one who seems
Inclined impartially to hear
The weaker side, and to receive
Such truth therein she may discern
As by our Church taught and believed.

It has been argued, theories,
However plausible to view,
Fail when brought into daily life,
And our's requirements and restraints
Are, while its precepts we pursue,
Beyond the strength of even Saints.

And that 'tis better far to keep
The "golden rule" on every hand,
Leaving the rest to our dear Lord,
Avoiding thus all cause of strife,
Attaining so through all our land
An onward march of peaceful life.

For us who know we have been called
To rise and work, not sit and wait,
Such well meant counsel does not fit
Our cause and time on this world's stage;
The field is wide, the hour is late,
And none must loiter who engage.

For in the kingdom there's a place,
A name and work for every one,
According to the talent lent
By the great Master over all,
Who notes the humblest service done
In answer to His holy call.

So if I answer you by way
Of narrative culled from the lives
Of those whom I have known for years,
Accept the picture, you will see
Of "Mormon" maidens, mothers, wives,
In proof of what we claim to be.

Not seed of promise, bud or bloom,
Taken with hopes and anxious fears,
Lest it prove thorned and barren tree,
And life's long labor spent in vain;
This is the fruit, after long years,
The fruit we've wrought in faith to gain.

Not that we lacked the "corner stone,"
Whereby to build, or rule to guide;
Each spirit knew by inward sight
The system's truth, its course and goal;
And gathered close or scattered wide.
Labored as one harmonious whole.

If in this garden you should find
Fruit all unworthy of its name,
Remember, e'en in Eden grew
A thing of evil, bringing sin,
Where all was pure; nor choose to blame
All, for the few tares found therein.

This is our work: to root from earth
Evils that have for ages spread;
And not by words alone, by works
That shall be felt the whole world through,
Till vanquished sin with bending head
Yields unto Truth the honor due.

And who will do this mighty work?
Not men of war in war's array,
But gentler ones who armor bear
Against all selfishness of heart;
Of these I weave my rhyme to-day—
Women who bear an honored part.

				AUGUSTA JOYCE C[-]OC[-]ERON.


[Column 1]
﻿DESULTORY MEMORIES.

	Every reflective person has times of medita-
tion. These may occur from some event that
transpires, or peculiar frame of mind in part
unaccountable, or from certain surroundings.
Floods of remembrances rush in as it were un-
bidden, and burst asunder the barriers time
has thrown up between us and the scenes of
earlier life; all at once rivers of thought flow
over the soul and almost bury the present for
the time being, so absorbing, is the emotion,
carrying us back to other days. Vividly the
galleries in memory's hall stand out in bold re-
lief, and we recognise here and there the
familiar faces and forms of those we loved,
and recall the associations connected with them
which had been almost forgotten, in the whirl-
pool of busy everyday life, that swallows up
so completely our thoughts and energies, while
actively engaged in the occpations that bring
us in close contact with the people among whom
we live. It is right to a certain extent to be
thus engaged in the present, and in looking
forward to the future; and yet it is well to
pause now and then in retrospective reverie
for the mind needs rest and recreation.
	The present demands attention, the future
is calling for action. These are facts with
which we are all acquainted, but to revel occa-
sionally in the realms of the past, is oft-times
like sweet music heard in dreams, that thrills
the senses when we awaken, and imparts pleas-
urable sensations, that word scan never express.
There is a pathos in memory hallowed and
sanctified, that is always elevating; and to be
able to call up from within, pictures
taken from incidents that actually transpired,
is better than to create air castles for the fu-
ture, that are not possible of fulfillment. If
you ask me why? I answer because it cultivates
the heart. Only those who are capable of in-
tense affection, the highest enjoyment, or the
keenest suffering, can fully appreciate what it
is to traverse memory's halls and search out
the beauty of that which has departed.
	To cultivate the graces of human life and
bring into exercise the finest faculties we pos-
sess, is to breathe a higher atmosphere, which
will develop the broadest phase of character,
that will search out the truth and the light,
and find a mantle of charity to cover the weak-
nesses of those less favored with conditions to
promote advancement. It is from women more
especially that this refinement of culture is ex-
pected. Her gentleness, her amiability, her
intuition are all aids and helps in softening,
subduing and polishing the manners, the cus-
toms and the hearts of the masses of the peo-
ple in the world we inhabit.
	No festival or entertainment is ever perfect
without woman's help; it is her prerogative to
embellish, adorn and beautify, and in all the
pictures memory portrays, she is ever a promi-
nent feature. The mother, the sister, the
friend, the one who could enter into all the
griefs of our childhood, was a woman. Yet
she is not perfect in and of herself, but associa-
ted with man, the two forming one perfect
whole, how complete do wo find the arrange-
ment of the divine Creator.
	The departure of the old year and the usher-
ing in of the new, is apt to awaken some of
those tender phases of feeling that are spoken
of as sentimentality, often in a careless manner;
but there is always a lesson in these recur-
rences, and there are those who mark such

[Column 2]
days as epochs in their lives. It matters not
what calls forth tenderness, it is always a bless-
ing. To be indifferent and callous to all things,
is to mar instead of make character; not that
we should always be carried away by our
excess of sysmpathy, or deceive ourselves with
superabundance of fine feeling without judg-
ment, or principle; but to be kind, gentle, ten-
der and considerate, and educate the heart and
affections epually with the head and hands.
	It is well to reason and to be practical, it is
commendable to dig deep for scientific know-
ledge, but there must be a balance of spiritual
force and human affection or we should have a
race of sages and savantes,without that love and
reverence that purifies and sanctifies joys and
sorrows, and draws mankind closer together in
bonds of universal brotherhood. Then let us
keep up the old-time customs that encourage
coming together and exchanging courtesies and
kindnesses, that our children may look back to
the holidays and annual festivities with as
much pleasure and satisfaction, as we do now
to the good old times when we were young and
all things seemed gilded with brightest hopes
in rainbow hues. How fondly we recall child-
hood's memories; the old homestead, the mea-
dows and groves, the singing birds, the swal-
low's twitter, the lark's high note, the mourn-
ful whippoorwill; the speckled trout in the
little brook near the old home, that sailed
along the babbling water. Was anything ever
so tasty as these little fish? the berries with
which our fingers were often stained, and the
autumn nuts, gathered in the dear old woods
and stowed away in the attics and garrets, to
be brought out in the winter evenings when
the work was all put aside and we ate apples,
cracked nuts, and, sometimes, though perhaps
we ought not to tell it, the old folks drank sweet
cider. Can we ever forget these creature com-
forts? No! Neither should we, they help
make up the sum of human happiness, and we
are better, if not wiser, for such pastimes and
enjoyments around the fireside with those, who
love us and can appreciate our feelings. To
eat together cements friendship—and the cus-
tom of inviting our friends to partake our
hospitality in the good old-fashioned way,
without too much style and ceremony, should
not be cast aside for new-fangled notions of
formal calls and fashionable dinner parties.
								AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I have taken much interest in questions
asked by Mrs. Scott, and she seems to me a
dear friend, although I have never seen her
face or heard her voice. I see from her letters
that her mind has been exercised in many
instances the same as my own was once.
I have been waiting to learn what the sisters
who answer would say to her, for they some-
times express my feelings better than I can do
myself. She asks what the Commissioners did?
Well, I consider they did well. They did what
the Lord permitted, and as his hand is over all
his works, we have nothing to fear, but trust
implicitly in Him. Those men and women that
were not allowed to vote because they had ac-
cepted the doctrine of plural marriage, know,
that they are excused because of having ac-
cepted a higher law. Yet we had four thous-
and votes more than the previous year. They
were more honorable than the Governor, be-


cause they gave the certificate to the person
who had the largest number of votes. Was
not this honorable? Should we not praise the
bridge which carries us safe over? They would
have done more had they known that this was
the work of God our Father. They shall have
my prayers that they may at some future day
know this to be a fact. I fancy I see Mrs.
Scott and her family, sitting around the table
seeking intelligence; one of them reading the
problem of life. How important, because this
is a duty we owe to ourselves and our Maker.
I wish Mrs. Scott could read Mr. Charles W.
Penrose's remarks upon this subject. I thought
of her last evening while listening to the re-
marks of Prof. T. B. Lewis, the able Superin-
tendent of all the schools in this county. He
was speaking of the importance of informing
our minds upon subjects pertaining to this
earth, because the Creator of heaven and earth
was the Father of all our spirits. He thought
a son was not dutiful if he neglected to make
himself acquainted with the works of his
father. Yet said, our education would not pro-
cure salvation, but our characters would. He
related a conversation with the brother of a
young man who had been on a mission, who said
his brother when in England, wrote very en-
thusiastic letters, full of light and intelligence,
but since he returned home, became darkened
in his mind and "now has no religion in him."
To illustrate this, Prof. Lewis likened it to a
man who went up stream to visit a person who
lived five miles at the head of the stream.
Said the man rowed the boat until he came
just near the house, when he became tired and
threw down his oars, saying, "I am so near I
will rest, I shall soon be there." But the cur-
rent took him back even beyond the starting
point. He then showed that application was
necessary to success. He also compared it to
the study of music. What great attainments
are made by application to that study? To
prepare for a concert, how often it is necessary
to practice in order to become proficient.
Argueing that those who had recieved the gift
of the good Spirit, had obtained it by seeking
diligently and applying their whole soul to the
rules that our Savior has given us to live by.
When we do this, great are the results. Yes,
the Scripture says, they who keep those laws
as he the Savior kept them, shall be heirs and
joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Not only so,
but possess a joy and peace the world can
neither give or take from them. Those who
adhere to the principles he taught, have the light
which St. John speaks of as being the true
light, which lighteth every man who cometh
into the world. With this light, how clear, how
plainly we can see and comprehend all that we
touch and handle. We will not fail to be suc-
cessful, for we are constantly improving. The
Savior said it would be like a well of water
springing up into everlasting life. This is our
experience. If Mrs. Scott will try it in the
sincerity of her heart, her experience will be
the same. The Savior was called faithful and
true. If we attain to perfection, we must be
like Him.			M. E. KIMBALL.


122	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OUR TRIALS.

	The Lord says He will have a tried people,
and if it is his desire, and he permits us to be
tried, it proves it is for our good. We are to
be tried to see if we are able to stand the temp-
tations of the evil one; our Savior was temp-
ted, but he said, "get thee behind me, Satan,"
and if we are in the line of our duty, we also
will have power given us to rebuke the evil
one in the name of Jesus, that name which,
when uttered, will cause, as the poet exclaims,
"the devils to fear and flee away." But as we
must he tried in order to be God's children we
must pass through perhaps bodily affliction,
and how many of us under such circumstances

[Column 2]
have felt to exclaim, "It has been good for me
to be afflicted;" then is the time we more es-
pecially are free from the cares of life, and
although our bodies perhaps are suffering great
pain and weakness, our minds are strong, our
spirits buoyant, and we hold sweet communion
with our Father, his spirit whispers comfort
and peace, and fills our hearts with joy unutter-
able, and full of glory, so that we have cause
for gratitude, and praise God that we have
been afflicted; we realize that some of the dross
has been consumed and we are enabled to go
on our way rejoicing. But some persons will
say, I am so tried, I cannot, and will sometimes
go so far as to say they will not bear it. Stop,
my dear sisters, before you utter these words,
and reflect for one moment where these thoughts
come from, and from what source they spring.
	We are told the heart is deceitful, and des-
perately wicked, and so long as we feel in that
state of mind, we dare venture to say there is
something of that kind burning within. What
is it you cannot bear? May be it is the very
thing the Lord intends to purify and bless you
with, perhaps it may be the principle of plural
marriage, which, when practised in purity and
righteousness, will ennoble woman in this life,
and eventually exalt her in the Celestial King-
dom of our Father and God.
	Shall we, as women of Zion, we who have
embraced the everlasting Gospel, and have
tested of the good things of the kingdom,
perhaps enjoyed some of the gifts therein, shall
we lift our puny arm against the Almighty,
or any of the principles which have been re-
vealed! nay verily! Let us not be guilty of
such an act, but let us rather rejoice to have
husbands worthy of more than one wife, and if
we will do so, our Father in heaven will be well
pleased with us, and we will have more joy
than our hearts had ever conceived of.
	Again, some who have come to Zion have
left good homes and every worldly comfort.
What induced them to do so? was it for the
Gospel's sake, or had they any other motive in
view? If the former, they will be satisfied
when they arrive here. They may be tried in
many, various ways, but they are blest, and
their way is opened. On the contrary, if we
come with other motives than to serve God,
keep his commandments, and help build up
Zion, we shall get discouraged and dissatisfied,
and say things are not what they were repre-
sented to be, then commence to be dissatisfied
with everything, and everybody, and especially
with those who preside over the Church, which,
by the bye, is the first step to apostacy; then
our minds become dark, and eventually such
persons will leave the Church. Such are they
who cannot stand the trials, and are neces-
sarily not of those whom the Lord will have;
and inasmuch as they are not willing to be sub-
ject to his laws, will have to be subject to him
whom they list to obey, who will verily prove
to be a hard master and give poor pay. Then
in consideration of these things, let us endeavor
each day, to "prove all things, and hold fast
that which is good," and patiently endure all
the Lord sees fit we should pass through. Let
us pray for strength to enable us to do God's
righteous will, and all his laws obey; Seek
him with all our might, we then will know,
and prove what is true. We must our trials all
pass through to gain celestial glory, and we
will then realize 'twas good we had "Our
Trials."
	LEHI, 1883.				E. R, C.


﻿PRIMARY FAIR.

	A Primary Fair was held in Snowflake, Dec.
20th, 1882, under the auspices of the President,
Sister Emma S. Smith and Counselors, and
the President of the Relief Society, Sister M.
J. West.
	The fair was opened at 10 a. m. by


singing and prayer. There was a general
attendance of the people from Snowflake
and Taylor. The children showed con-
siderable energy and skill in preparing
articles for the occasion. One little boy
eight years old, made and painted a garden
rake, a little boy, nine, made a harrow, a little
girl, four, made a quilt block, a little girl, five,
a sweetcake, a little boy, seven, an ox yoke, a
little girl, nine, a basket covered with beads,
a little boy, eleven, made and painted an
armed rocking chair, he also made the paint
brush that he used; a little girl, five, covered a
cross with shells, and made a wreath of flowers,
a little boy, eleven, made a spring wagon with
cover and spring seat, a girl, eleven, braided
straw for a hat, a girl, fourteen, cut and made
her father a coat; nine pairs of stockings were
made by girls from eight to twelve years old.
	The Primary girls also pieced blocks for
both sides of a quilt, set it together, carded the
wool, and quilted most of it. They had bread
and a variety of cakes and pies; ornaments of
cardboard, wool flowers, cushions, crochet work
and embroidery, besides many other articles
that were very creditable. The boys also had
many articles very creditable,
	The afternoon was spent in recitations from
cards of our faith, speaking pieces and singing
songs. Closed by complimentary speeches
from President Jesse N. Smith and Bishop
Hunt.
			ELLEN J. LARSON, Secretary.


﻿THE GRANDEUR OF WOMAN.

	When you want to get the grandest idea of
a queen, you do not think of Catherine of
Russia, or of Anne of England, or of Marie
Theresa of Germany; but when you want to
get your grandest idea of a queen, you think
of the plain woman who sat opposite your
father at the table, or walked with him arm-in-
arm down life's pathway; sometimes to the
thanksgiving banquet, sometimes to the grave,
but always together, soothing your petty griefs,
correcting your childish waywardness, joining
in your infantile sports, listening to your even-
ing prayers, toiling for you at needle or at the
spinning wheel, and on cold nights, wrapping
you up snug and warm. And then, at last, on
that day when she lay in the back room dying,
and you saw her take those thin hands, with
which she had toiled for you so long, and put
them together in a dying prayer that commend-
ed you to the God whom she had taught you to
trust—oh she was the queen! The chariots of
God went down to fetch her; and as she went
in, all heaven rose up. You cannot think of
her now without a rush of tenderness that stirs
the deep foundation of your soul, and you feel
as much a child again as when you cried on
her lap; and if you could bring her back again
to speak just once more your name as tenderly
as she used to speak it, you would be willing to
throw yourself on the ground and kiss the sod
that covers her, crying: "Mother! mother!"
Ah, she was the queen! To make one such
woman as I have described, how many thous-
ands would you want of those people who go
in the round of fashion and dissipation, dis-
tressing their body until in their monstrosities
they seem to outdo the dromedary and hippo-
potamus; going as far toward disgraceful ap-
parel as they dare go, so as not to be arrested
by the police, their behavior a sorrow to the
good and a caricature to the vicious, and an
insult to that God who made them women and
not gorgons; and tramping on down through a
frivolous, dissipated life to temporal and
eternal damnation.—Frank Leslie's Sunday
Magazine.


"One soweth and another reapeth," is a ver-
ity that applies to evil as well as good.—
George Eliot.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 123


A SERMON IN RHYME.

SELECTED.

If you have a friend worth loving,
	Love him. Yes, and let him know
That you love him, ere life’s evening
	Tinge his brow with sunset glow.
Why should good words ne'er be said 
Of a friend—till he is dead.

If you hear a song that thrills you,
	Sung by any child of song,
Praise it. Do not let the singer
	Wait deserved praises long.
Why should one who thrills your heart
Lack the joy you may impart?

If you hear a prayer that moves you
	By its humble, pleading tone,
[---] Do not let the seeker
	Bow before his God alone.
Why should not your brother share
The strength of "two or three" in prayer?

If you see the hot tears falling
From a sorrowing brother's eyes,
Share them. And, by sharing,
Own your kindship with the skies.
Why should any one be glad
When a brother's heart is sad?

If a silvery laugh is rippling
Through the sunshine on his face,
Share it. 'Tis te wise man's saying--
For both grief and joy a place.
There's health and goodness in the mirth
In which an honest laugh has birth.

If your work is made more easy
By a friendly helping hand,
Say so. Speak out brave and truly,
Ere the darkness veil the land. 
Should a brother workman dear
Falter for a word of cheer.

Scatter thus your seeds of kindness 
All enriching as you go;
Leave them. Trust the Harvest Giver,
He will make each seed to grow;
So until its happy end,
Your life shall never lack a friend.


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.
PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

	It is a singular fact, and one that any
thoughtful person cannot avoid noticing, that
many of the men and women who first em-
braced the Gospel in this dispensation, were the
direct descendants of those who fled from per-
secution in the old world, to find an asylum in
the new, where they could worship God accord-
ing to the dictates of their own consciences.
And how similar has been the history of this
people to that of the Pilgrim fathers and
mothers. Among this number is the lady who
forms the subject of this sketch. Her gene-
ological record on the father's side (Huntington
was her family name), has been traced to
Simon Huntington, the Puritan immigrant
who sailed from England in 1833, but died at
sea, leaving a widow,Margaret Huntington and
cthree sons. Of Mrs. Kimball's illustrious and
estors was Samuel Huntington, one of the
signers of the Declaration of Independence,
Governor of Connecticut, and President of
the Continental Congress. Wm. Hunting-
ton, grandfather of Mrs. Kimball, and
nephew of Samuel Huntington, was born
in Tolland, Connecticut, and served in the
army through the Revolutionary war. He
moved to New Hampshire in 1784, and
there Mrs. Kimball's father, Wm. Hunt-
ington, was born; he also served in the war
with Great Britain in 1812. In 1804, the
Huntington's removed to Watertown, New
York, and there Presendia Lathrop was born,
also her sister Zina D., whose biography we
published last year in the EXPONENT. These

[Column 2]
two women are descended from a race of patri-
ots, and it is not strange that a generous share
of heroism has descended to them, and that it
very strongly marks the character of the fami-
ly. The Huntington families are intermarried
with the Lathrops, from whom Presendia was
named, and this family was also among
the early New England settlers, one of
whom was the Reverend Samuel Lathrop,
who, for non-conformity, being a preacher
in the First Congregational Church in
London, was imprisoned for two years, and
on being released in 1634, came to America
and was the first minister of Scituate,
Massachusetts.
	Mrs. Kimball's mother was Zina Baker
whose father was one of the first physicians in
New Hampshire, and whose mother descended
from the Dymock's of Sir Edward Dymock,
Queen Elizabeth's champion. Presendia was
the fourth child of her parents, and was born
in Watertown, Jefferson Co., N. Y., September
10, 1810. Mrs. Kimball is said to be the exact
counterpart of the Eliza Huntington whose
likeness is in the book, the record of the Hunt-
ington's, as a type of the race. Sister Presendia
is a woman to see once is to remember always.
She reminds one of the dames of the olden
times, large, tall, grand and majestic in figure,
dignified in manner, yet withal, so womanly
and sympathetic that she seems the embodi-
ment of the motherly element to a degree that
would embrace all who come under her influ-
ence. Truly she may, in every sense of the
word, be termed a mother in Israel in very
deed. Her life has been exceptionally event-
ful. It is impossible to give in a brief sketch
like this even a tithe of her wonderful experi-
ences, but a few items will convey to the reader
something of the life of this good woman, so
rich in faith, so full of integrity to the Gospel,
and will perhaps be beneficial to others, and show
of what material have been the women who
have been foremost in helping to establish the
principles that have called forth so much com-
ment throughout the civilized world. It takes
women of more than ordinary stamina to en-
dure all the stigma, reproach and calumny
that is sure to follow the introduction of any
new ideas, even though they may be for the
progression and advancement of the human
race here and hereafter. The father and
mother of Sister Presendia both became mem-
bers of the Church at a very early date, they
had been Presbyterians of the strictest kind.
	The Huntington's with their family, contrary
to the wishes of their relatives and friends,
shortly after embracing the Gospel as taught
by the Prophet Jeseph, removed to Kirtland,
Ohio, where the saints were gathering together
and assisted in building the Temple in that
place, which is still standing as a testimony to
all the faithful labors of the people of God,
in erecting Temples to the Most High in the
face of the bitterest persecutions. At the time
of the gathering to Missouri, Father and
Mother Hnntington went up to Jackson
County, and shared in the hardships and perils
of that eventful epoch in the history of the
Church. The hardships endured there by
these veterans are too dreadful to contemplate,
and eventually both of them laid down their
lives in consequence of the privations and per-
secutions to which they had been so cruelly
subjected. Faithful and true to the very last
hour of their lives, were these noble saints of
the Most High; descended from those who had
battled for freedom from oppression and nobly
earned the title of freemen for themselves and
their posterity; yet for the self-same reason,
their religious faith compelled them to pass
through the same series of trying ordeals, un-
til death came to their relief. Who shall an-
swer for the noble lives thus sacrificed? Is
there not an avenger of the innocent and suf-
fering of the Saints? Yet these things trans-

[Column 3]
pired under the broad spread folds of the flag
of liberty, freedom to all, religious liberty to
every creed and color. Consider too this was
not on account of the practice of plural mar-
riage, there could be no such excuse then, for
the principle had not yet been revealed.

To be Continued.


N. W. S. A., WASHINGTON, D. C.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
true to the principles they profess, have re-
solved to use their influence to defeat Cassidy's
Bill introduced into the Congress of the United
States, with the object of annulling the act of
the Utah Legislature of 1870, in passing the
bill granting suffrage to the women of this
Territory. At a preliminary meeting held in
the Riggs House Parlors, Washington, D. C.,
Saturday evening, Dec. 30, the following reso-
lution was adopted:
	"Resolved, That the bill introduced into the
House of Representatives by the Hon. G. W.
Cassidy, of Nevada, to deprive the women of
Utah of the ballot is a retrograde movement,
and aimed at the perpetual disfranchisement
of all women, notwithstanding his assertions
to the contrary, as women who are polygamists
cannot vote there now; and that we will
use whatever power we possess to defeat that
measure."
	Another resolution was adopted at the same
meeting in reference to the cruel and wicked
persecution of Mrs. Helen M, Gougar, editor
of "Our Herald," a woman's paper published
and very ably conducted by that estimable
lady, who on account of her bold and fearless
speaking and writing against wickedness and
crime has been most cruelly slandered. Mrs.
Gougar has brought suit for slander against
the men who so basely traduced her character.
The following is the resolution:
	"Resolved, That the Washington branch of the
National Woman's Suffrage Association extend
to Mrs. Helen M. Gougar their moral support
in her suit, now pending against calumny and
detraction, the weapons only of cowards; and
that we consider her cause the cause of all
women."
	We heartily endorse the sentiment expressed
in the resolution, and hope Mrs. Gougar may
come off triumphant in the suit now pending.
Mrs. G. says in her paper of Dec. 9:
	"The slanderer and his attorney have raked
around among our former servant girls and
sewing women; have searched hotel registers to
find our "character" but they have studiously
avoided calling in the hundreds of Christian
homes where we have been hospitably enter-
tained from time to time."
	With all the wicked and vile things that
have been circulated about the suffrage work-
ers, this is the first instance we have heard of
when suit has been brought, and the ladies who
believe in "equality of women before the law,"
will watch the proceedings of the court in this
matter with anxiety and intense interest. Mrs.
G. is a handsome woman, a fine figure, most
pleasing address, brilliant writer and a great
favorite on the platform. A woman to be
loved and respected.


On the whole, it is good, it is absolutely
needful, for one to be humbled and prostrated,
and thrown among the pots from time to time.
Life is a school; we are perverse scholars to
the last, and require the rod.—Thomas Carlyle.

	At the last meeting of the "Woman's Liter-
ary Club" of Indianapolis, an exceedingly
well-prepared paper upon the life and charac-
ter of Margaret Fuller was read by Mrs. May
Wright Sewall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	.	.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $3.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 15, 1883.


[Column 1]

EDITOR'S CHAT.

	THE prejudice which set in so heavily against
Utah and the Mormons, about four years ago,
seems to be giving way a little. Perhaps it has
nearly spent its fury. A spirit of inquiry or
partly curiosity as well, has been incited through
the dreadful extravaganzas that Dame Rumor
has circulated to help overthrow "Mormonism."
There are many intelligent people asking ques-
tions by letters "of the Mormons" themselves,
concerning the practical workings of plura
marriage, its effect upon society, its domestic
embarassments, its physiological and hygeinic
value. Religion—some of these querists do not
care for, they have no faith in it as an abstract
idea, but the sanctity of marriage as a divine
right, belonging as much to woman as to man
to regulate, many believe and claim. It is a
question which is bound to excite special atten-
tion in the world of mankind ere many years
have elapsed—and one which women well know,
cannot be adjusted until the ballot is in their
own hands. But a truce to all this, it is a sub-
ject so complicated, that volumes might be
written upon it without elucidating all its points,
but at present, we have not time or space to
elaborate upon this matter. The anomalous
condition of women, under the peculiar circum-
stances with which this people are environed
round, when one takes into consideration the
Edmunds law in its full force upon men as well
as women, must of itself be an interesting study
to those looking on and disinterested. And it is
not a matter of astonishment after all, that the
question should come from various quarters,
"What will be the action of the Mormons to-
wards the Commissioners?" "How will the
Mormon people regard the Edmunds law?" and
a long list of similar interrogations.
	Notwithstanding the disfranchisement of all
men and women who were even suspected of
having been at any time, living in plural mar-
riage relations, the majority of votes for the can-
didate of the People's Party was very large; and
forsooth to correct this great mistake, which has
been made in allowing men and women to vote
for a candidate who was in every way worthy
the confidence of his constituents—it is found
absolutely necessary now to make another still
more desperate attempt to wrest the ballot from
the hands of the women of Utah. This time,
by urging Congress to annul the act of the Utah
Legislature of 1870, granting suffrage to women.
In doing this, men feel they are perfectly justi-
fied, as Congress has never conferred upon
woman, anywhere, the right to vote. But even
this should they accomplish their design, will
not give the Liberals the balance of power they 
desire, in order to control the public treasuries of
the Territory, and place the People's Party at
the mercy of these mercenary, plotting, schem-
ing federal officials and carpet-baggers. Even
could this fest be accomplished, there will still

[Column 2]
be men enough to outvote the Liberals; for
another year will give Utah more voters—
young men, who will have just attained their
majority, and each succeeding year will add new
recruits of these mountain boys to the list.
	It may not be so easy a matter after all to get
Congress to pass the Cassidy bill—for there are 
leading women in the nation, who feel this in-
volves a point of law, which may work disas-
trously against all women, should Congress thus
decide against women of Utah. It does seem
strange, after all that has been published con-
cerning the election, and the discrimination
against those who were even suspected of ever
having lived in the plural order of marriage,
that there should be an impression that these
plural wives were allowed to vote; making this
one of the pleas for the passage of the Cassidy
bill. The annuling of that act of the Utah
Legislature would bring upon Congress the in-
dignation of all suffrage workers in America and
across the water. Not that members of Congress
who favor it would fear or care, but it would be
a blow that would tell far and near.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. Zina D. H. Young has been invited to
attend the N. W. S. A. Convention to be held
in Lincoln Hall, Washington, D. C., the 23d,
24th and 25th of the present month.

	The Salt Lake Stake Conference was held in
the Assembly Hall, Jan. 6 and 7, and was very
numerously attended. Very impressive dis-
courses were delivered by Prest. John Taylor,
Counselor Joseph F. Smith, and the Presidency
of this Stake of Zion, and it was a time of spirit-
ual refreshing to the Saints.

	IT will be seen by Dr. Ferguson's advertise-
ment that she has removed to the Twelfth
Ward, where she has an office adjoining her
dwelling, and will be glad to receive those who
may be desirous of securing her services as a
physician or surgeon. She has a class in obstet-
rics now well advanced, and would be glad to
teach more in the much needed profession, or in
the art of nursing.

	WE are informed by letter from Mrs. Sarah
M. Dell, Beaver, Utah, that Mrs. Lucy Smith
Milliken, youngest sister of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and widow of Arthur Milliken, died on
the 9th of December last, her husband died
about eight months previous to her decease.
Lucy Smith, afterwards Milliken, was well-
known to the Saints in the early days of the
Church, and she was also greatly beloved for her
many excellent womanly qualities and graces of
character.

	THE Eighteenth Ward Chapel was dedicated
on Sunday evening, Jan. 14th. The services
were conducted by Elder Robert Patrick, First
Counselor to Bishop Orson F. Whitney, who is
absent upon a mission in Europe. President
John Taylor and President Joseph F. Smith
each addressed the assembly. Counselors D.
O. Calder and Joseph E. Taylor of the Presi-
dency of this Stake of Zion were also present.
President Joe. F. Smith offered the dedicatory
prayer. Elder H. G. Whitney had charge of the
singing. The benediction was pronounced by
President Joseph E. Taylor. The building was
crowded with people. The chapel is a credit to
the people of the ward; it is beautiful in design
and handsomely finished.

	THE entertainment given New Year's night
by the Primary Association of the Eleventh
Ward of this city, under the able management
of Mrs. Louie Felt, was a very creditable affair.
The singing by a hundred and twenty-five
children was well done, and evinced skill and

[Column 2]
perseverance on the part of those who trained
them for the occasion. The selection of songs,
recitations aad dialogues were choice and well
rendered, many of the little ones being quite
young. "The "Sleeping Beauty" was finely
presented, the children being well up in their
parts, and their costumes tasteful and pretty.
The entertainment cleared $41.00, which was
donated to the Deseret Hospital Fund, for the
benefit of that institution.

	ON Sunday evening, December 31, we were
agreeably surprised by receiving a call from Mr.
and Mrs. Henry Marion Howe, of Boston. We
regretted exceedingly that urgent business com-
pelled them to leave the city Monday morning,
so that there was very little opportunity for them
to ascertain facts from observation. Mr. Howe
is the son of the celebrated Mrs. Julia Ward
Howe, poet, lecturer and journalist, belongs to
the staff of editors of the Woman's Journal, pub-
lished in Boston. She is very popular as a
speaker, in America and Europe, and is an
ardent suffragist and strong supporter of the en-
franchisement of all women.

	ON the 21st of January, the venerable pioneer
lady, Eliza R. S. Smith, poetess of Zion, and
widow of the Prophet Joseph, will reach the
great age of seventy-nine years, with faculties
bright and active, physical health excellent, still
wielding her pen ably in defense of the truth,
visiting the sick, comforting the sorrowing, and
ministering in holy places: she has nobly earned
the title "Mother in Israel." Side by side with
Sister Eliza is another pioneer woman in the
glorious work, Sister Zina; for years these two
women have been closely associated, and their
names are linked together tenderly among the
Saints. Sister Zina D. H. Young will be sixty-
two years old on the 31st day of the present
month. Sister Eliza and Sister Zina, are house-
hold words in Utah, and long may they be asso-
ciated together and work for the elevation of
woman and the establishment of Christ's king-
dom upon the earth.

	ON Friday, Jan. 12, there was a special meet-
ing of the Relief Society of Mill Creek Ward
in the Meeting House, commencing at 10 a.m.
There was an excellent attendance of the peo-
ple in that vicinity, and several sisters from the
city, were present by invitation. Sisters Eliza
R. S. Smith, Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella
Horne, Helen Mar. Whitney, Sarah M. Kimball
and Maria W. Wilcox, also Sister Elizabeth
Howard from Big Cottonwood. At intermission,
a sumptuous repast was served in the vestry,
and the time was spent in social enjoyment.
There was an afternoon session at 2 p.m., which
gave ample time for the transaction of business
and for all who desired, to have an opportunity
of speaking. Addresses were made by each of
the ladies mentioned, also by several of the local
sisters, and a goodly time of refreshing was en-
joyed. Such meetings promote good feelings
and encourage those who labor in benevolent
work to persevere in well doing.

	THE Unity Club, recently organized in this
city for improvement and charitable purposes,
has given two evening entertainments in the
Twelfth Ward Assembly Rooms, each time to
crowded and appreciative audiences. The first
was given the evening of Jan.4, and was an un-
qualified success. The demand for its repetition
was so great that the Club finally decided to re-
produce it, with some few changes in the pro-
gramme. Those who figured on the boards in
the several parts, deserve praise for the credit-
able manner in which they acquitted themselves.
Miss Ada Dwyer, in her rendering of Lady
Macbeth in the sleep walking scene, surpassed
the expectations of her most ardent admirers, and
showed her[-]elf quite at home in the character.


Miss Adams as Isabel at the deathbed of her
boy, evinced thorough training and adaptability.
The singing of Mesdemoiselles Agnes Olsen,
Prissie Jennings and Louie Wells, was charm-
ing, and the piano accompaniments by Daynes,
as well as his opening piece, were, of course, per-
fect. Mesdames Wells and Thatcher delighted
the lovers of music with the fine execution of
choice pieces, and the tableaux gave the finish-
ing touch to the artistic programme. The best
among these was "Cornelia, the mother of the
Gracchi," which was beautifully represented; and
"Lady Jane Grey," which was also well taken;
"The Good Old days of Yore" was very character-
istic, and was well presented. The committee
of young ladies have shown good taste as well as
executive ability, and their success is indeed
well earned, for they worked earnestly and with
untiring energy, and they certainly deserve
great credit. Bishop H. B. Clawson, who is
perfectly at home in matters pertaining to the
stage, both on the platform and behind the
scenes, rendered the committee the most
efficient aid, and the benefit of his advice and
skill, helped much to make the affair not only a
success, but a pleasure to all who attended.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 125


FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

BERN, Switzerland,
		Dec. 26, 1882.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	The Swiss and German mission yesterday
evening concluded a well attended and instruc-
tive conference, during which, among statistical
and financial reports from all parts of the mis-
sion respecting the branches, the work of preach-
ing the Gospel, the emigration of the Saints, the
Sunday schools, etc., a very creditable report
was given concerning the Women's Relief So-
ciety existing in the city of Bern. The sisters
had their meeting yesterday at 2 o'clock, the
hall being densely crowded with brethren and
sisters from various parts of Switzerland, and it
was really a most excellent gathering, the ladies
presiding, speaking, bearing powerful and im-
pressive testimonies, and conducting the whole
business of the meeting in a manner instructive
and edifying to all who enjoy the Spirit of God
and who are able to appreciate its presence, Ac-
cording to the report there read, it appears that
the society was organized by Prest. P. F. Goss,
on the 30th of June, 1882, with a president, two
counselors, a secretary, nine visiting teachers
and twenty-three members, a total member-
ship of thirty-six. Since the organization four-
teen meetings had been held, all visits in the
various circuits had been industriously and regu-
larly made, and, one may be sure, great good
had been done in the way of instructing and en-
couraging those who perhaps were in need or in
sorrow. It had been decided that the Sunday
School children give a Christmas entertainment,
and this took place Saturday evening, the 23d.
The matter of preparation was given into the
hands of the sisters, in connection with the
Sunday School officers, and they had nicely
decorated the room with evergreens, flowers,
wreaths, ribbons, and all the little attractions
which women alone know how to create, while
in one corner of the room was a Christmas tree,
brilliantly lighted. At the conclusion of the
exercises, suitable presents were distributed to
the youthful performers, the sisters' contribution
to this fund being to the value of 49.85 francs.
The many visitors to the conference have been
apportioned among the resident members of the
Church by the sisters of this society, and have
been provided with all that was necessary to
make them feel comfortable and at home—in a
word, much of the success of the conference is
due to the exertions of these sisters. It is


thought that the society is entitled to credit for
its labors, and ought to be recognized and re-
ported at home; therefore to the EXPONENT, as
the organ of such organizations in all the world,
the foregoing is respectfully submitted.
	The officers, as they now exist, are: Sister
Magdalena Rohrer, President; Sister Elizabeth
Hachen and Magdalena Rothlisberger, Counsel-
ors; and Sister Rosa Muller, Secretary. In be-
half of the latter, as she cannot write English,
I have prepared, by request of Prest. Goss, the
above items, which were selected from her
report.			Respectfully,
						JNO. Q. CANNON.


LECTURE ON TEMPERANCE.

	At Morgan City, on the evening of January
9th, Mr. William O. Clark, of California, de-
livered one of his pathetic lectures on temper-
ance, in this place to an attentive audience,
holding them spellbound, as it were, by his elo-
quent and touching address. After occupying
an hour and a half, the speaker asked all who
would make a resolve not to take any strong
drink for one year, to raise the right hand, when
all, or nearly all hands were raised. It being
a free lecture, a hearty vote of thanks was ten-
dered Mr. Clark for his interesting entertain-
ment of the evening. Doubtless much good
will be the result of his sincere labors.
								C. A. N.


[Column 1]
MISSIONARY LETTER.

VALLEY VIEW, Smythe Co.,
		Virginia, Jan. 2, 1883.

DEAR SISTER HELEN:

	According to promise, I will endeavor to give
you a short history of my travels and experi-
ence since I left home. I had quite a lonesome
journey, traveling all the way alone, 2,400
miles. I arrived in Chattanooga about 11 p.m.,
and I assure you I felt like one of the lost sheep,
but I managed to find a hotel. The next morn-
ing, I started out to find some one that I knew,
but it was similar to hunting for a needle in a
hay stack, but, nevertheless, I found the needle
in the shape of Bro. A. H. Snow, son of
Apostle Lorenzo Snow. I don't know when I
ever was as pleased to see any one aaJ was him;
he was there attending to Elder John Morgan's
business. We started out the next merning to
see the sights; we went to the top of Cameron
Hill on the west side of the city, from this
point you can get a view of the whole country
around. The city water works were beneath us,
the water is forced from the Tennessee River up
to the top of this hill, by a steam pump, into a
reservoir, and then is carried throughout the
city in mains. East of the city is Missionary
Ridge, where one of the bloodiest battles of the
late war was fought, also, to the south is Look-
out Mountain, where another great battle was
fought; the timber was literally cut to pieces on
this mountain; it is a very high point, there is at
present on the top, a hotel for the accomodotion
of visitors. We next visited the National Ceme-
tery, east of the city; this is a beautiful place;
there are 14,000 soldiers buried there; it is
sodded down to lawn grass all over; the graves
are laid out in sections in circles, so many graves
to a section, the graves of those that are un-
known surrounded by those that are known; each
grave being surmounted with a marble slab.
The entrance to these grounds is through an iron
gate, the gate being hung to two large stone
pillars, about 16 feet high, surmounted by a
beautiful HEAD PIECE, inscribed with the date
of its erection. There is also an acadamized
road leading to this city. It is quite a large city

[Column 2]
some 30,000 inhabitants, but there are about two-
thirds of them negroes. So much for Chat-
tanooga. I stopped at that place four days,
when Brother Morgan arrived from Mississippi;
he then set me apart to travel in Virginia, I left
on the night of the 8th of November for my
destination. I was here alone for a month,
before my traveling companion came, he had
been to Pennsylvania visiting his folks, I think
you and Uncle Horace are acquainted with him,
Brother Howard Coray, he often speaks of you;
we were together some time when another Elder,
Brother Soule came, so I am to travel with him,
leaving Brother Coray to move around as he sees
fit, being too old to do much walking this winter.
It is a very hard country to travel in, it being
very mountainous. I have done considerable
traveling and fireside talk since I have been
here. I have spoken in public twice; my desire
is to fill a good and honorable mission, and I
feel to put my trust in God, knowing that he is
able to accomplish all things, and I know if a
man is honorable and contrite in his spirit, he
will be able to overcome all obstacles, and that
friends will be raised up to him on the right and
on the left. I have verified this wherever I
have met friends. Brother Coray and I have
been able to get into society where no other
Elder had been; among men that were most
bitter in their prejudices six months ago. They
are very wealthy people, and they have given
us standing invitations to stop with them, I ap-
preciate this, and acknowledge the hand of God
in it. Brother Smith, in bleasing me, told me
that I should follow in the footsteps of my father,
and that I should never lack for friends, and
should be able to accomplish a good mission, pro-
viding I would keep the word of wisdom, and
keep unspotted from the world, which counsel I
have faith enough to follow with the help of my
Heavenly Father. Well, dear sister, I will
close for the present, with love to your family,
Uncle Horace and Aunt Mary and family, not
forgetting yourself.
		From your affectionate Brother,
					NEWEL W. KIMBALL.

	P. S.—I have seen a notice in the EXPONENT
sent me by Aunt Em, of a pamphlet written by
you, which I would like to have if you would
send it to me. Give me your faith and prayers.
God bless you all, is the prayer of your brother,
								N. W. K.


MILLENNIAL STAR.

	THE Christmas number of "The Latter-day
Saints Millennial Star" closed the forty-fourth
volume of that valuable journal. It is the old-
est paper except one published in Liverpool.
This paper is edited and published at the present
time by Apostle John Henry Smith, now Presi-
dent of the European mission, though the
practical work of preparing it for the press, is in
the hands of Elder O. F. Whitney, and his
poetical ability is apparent even in his editorials.
He closes a most interesting editorial on Christ-
mas in this poetic strain:
	"Let smiles wrethe every face with gladness.
Let happiness, like a well, rise up from every
honest heart, and rippling laughter, like a sunny
stream, flow merrily forth from the lip that
speaks no evil. Let pleasure wait on purity,
and festivity go hand in hand with temperance.
Let faith, hope and charity—the white-winged
graces of the Christian gospel—encircle each
festive board, and hover over every family
hearth. Let kindness and brotherly love be
mutual mediator and monarch over all. Let
poverty praise generous wealth, and generous
wealth remember poverty. Let the song of the
jubilant be tuned by chastity and the laughter
of innocence be tempered by the inward prayer


of thanksgiving. And while Joy and gladness
abound, and thanksgiving and melody resound
from every heart and home, let every tongue
tacitly utter and every soul silently respond,"
"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth,
peace, good will toward men!"
	The value of this paper to the Saints In
Europe, cannot be estimated, and as a record of
the British mission, it has been very essential
indeed. May it continue to increase in popu-
larity and prosperity, until all the honest in
heart from all nations are gathered under the
Gospel banner, and there will be no more need
of the Elders In foreign fields of labor.


126	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Died, in Hooper City, Weber County, Utah, November
19, 1882, Adelaide Johnson, daughter of Theodore and
Sarah P. Cook Johnson.
Deceased was born in Salt Lake City, March 30, 1866,
and was in her 17th year at the time of her demise. She
was a faithful member of the Y. L. M. I.A., and loved
and respected by all who knew her. She leaves a de-
voted mother and brother, with many relatives and dear
friends, to mourn her loss. She was a kind and obedi-
ent daughter, and her last words were to comfort her
mother.
	Hooper.			JESSIE MANNING,
								Sec. Y. L. M. I. A.

Addie now is sweetly sleeping;
	In the tomb she's laid to rest,
But her spirit watch is keeping,
	For she dwells among the blest.

Though her body now is resting
	Free from weary pain and care,
She rejoices in bright mansions
	With the just and righteous there.

Then cheer up and cease your weeping,
	She has reached that "happy shore,"
Where no grief or sickness enters,
	And there's rest forevermore.

Hooper,							JULIA BAKER.


[Column 1]
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the seventeenth Quarterly Con-
ference of the Relief Societies of Utah Co.,
held in Provo City, December, 1882.
	Present on the stand. President Margaret
T. Smoot, Counselor M. A. Cluff, Secretary,
etc., visitors from Salt Lake City—Sisters
M. I Horne and E. Howard; a few brethren
of the Priesthood also present. Meeting
opened by singing, prayer and singing.
Minutes of former conference read and ap-
proved.
	President M. I. Smoot said our prayers have
been answered, and we are permitted to meet
again beneath this consecrated roof, while
many who have been wont to meet with us
have been called away to another state of ex-
istence. We have sisters with us to-day from
Salt Lake City, and we will dispatch our busi-
ness so as to hear from them, and give way this
afternoon for the funeral of Mother Needham,
who has gone from our midst; a faithful Lat-
ter-day Saint, and a faithful worker in the
Relief Society. I feel to ask the Lord to bless
and pour out his Spirit upon us all.
	Sister Horne said, the time has come that our
prophets have foretold that would try men's
souls. The Lord is working with the nations
and the adversary is stirring them up to destroy
us. I would say to my sisters, live your re-
ligion, draw nigh unto your God, and He will
help us, let us use the weapon of prayer, let us
fast and pray and hold sweet communion with
the Lord. One of our sisters has been sent to
the penitentiary because she would not testify
against herself and husband. I honor her for
it; our enemies are trying to overthrow us,

[Column 2]
but I know that God rules and will fight our
battles for us if we are faithful and trust Him.
The teachers of the Relief Societies should
pray for the Spirit of God, and never go out
without askiug for his help, that they may en-
courage those they visit. I pray that we may
not be weary in well doing, but gain a seat in
the Celestial Kingdom.
	Sister Howard said, the Lord requires im-
plicit obedience, and if we live our religion, we
will be right. We know what we shall have to
pass through; let us so live that we shall be able
to stand the tests; we must be more on an equal-
ity. Let us not spend so much in dress and
trimmings; let us improve our minds. We
want to come up in the morning of the resur-
rection; we do not want our bodies to lay for
years in the grouud. Let us love one another
till our hearts are full of love.
	Sister Smoot said, we all appreciate Sister
Anna Gallifant for her integrity and courage,
and feel to give her a vote of thanks, which
was responded to unanimously.
	Brother H. H. Cluff said: Sisters, this is
my first meeting with you in conference since
my return from the Sandwich Islands. I have
been pleased at what I have heard in relation
to the teachers of the Relief Societies visiting
in their districts; they can accomplish a great
deal of good in that way, more so than those
that preside over them; they can talk plainer
to the sisters than in the public meetings. The
sisters that live humbly before the Lord, can-
not help doing good, but let not your right
hand know what your left hand doeth.
	Sister Smoot said, we will adjourn and meet
together again this evening. Singing. Bene-
diction.

	Evening Session.—Conference convened at
half-past six; after singing and prayer, the
time was occupied by Sisters Horne and How-
ard instructing the sisters on a variety of sub-
jects all pertaining to our eternal welfaire; ex-
horted the mothers to train their children early
in all good works, teach them to pray, to be
upright and honest, teach them faith in God,
and also to remember the Sabbath day to keep
it holy. Said, we want to become intelligent,
and we must cultivate the talents God has
given us.
	President Smoot followed the sisters with a
few remarks, saying I have been called upon to
make a few remarks to the matrons in Zion.
The teachings you have had are sound, especi-
ally in regard to the training of our children
by the mothers. Among our getting, get wis-
dom, learn to govern your children, the great
secret is union in families; we must learn how
to obtain eternal lives; spoke of the lack of
confidence in God. We must live for eternal
life if we ever gain it. The Kingdom of God
is onward and upward, and we will receive
what we earn. Spoke against Sabbath break-
ing and various other subjects of interest.
	Sister Cluff endorsed what had been said,
and exhorted the sisters to faithfulness and
diligence in their religion.
	Singing. Conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction.
			CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.

TOOELE STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. of Tooele
Stake was held at Grantsville, Saturday and
Sunday, December 9th and 10, commencing at
10 a.m. on Saturday, Mrs. Mary A. Hunter
presiding, Counselor Jane Eastham being
present also. From Salt Lake City, Mrs. M.
I. Horne and H. M. Whitney. There were
also in attendance Apostles F. M. Lyman
and H. J. Grant, and Elder B. S. Young. The
meeting opened with the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, minutes of previous con-

[Column 3]
ference were read and accepted, and Sisters
Hunter, Horne and Whitney each addressed
the people a few minutes, giving good instruc-
tion and counsel to the sisters. Afternoon was
occupied by the Primary Associations, most of
the time being spent in exercises by the chil-
dren. The songs, dialogues and recitations
were well chosen and creditably rendered, and
after the programme was completed, Sisters
Horne and Whitney gave some good advice to
the little folks.
	Evening session was the Young Ladies Con-
ference, and much good counsel and encourage-
ment was given by the sisters to the young
people. Apostle F. M. Lyman exhorted the
parents to be kind to the children, make home
desirable, and not cast off their children, but
try to make their home the best place on earth,
for if even one is lost, there will be a vacant
place, and bring sorrow and trouble into our
family.
	Sunday morning the Sabbath School con-
vened, and the sisters from Salt Lake attended,
made some remarks and questioned the chil-
dren, the little ones replying promptly and sat-
isfactorily. Afternoon meeting, after the sac-
rament was administered, Apostle H. J. Grant
was the first speaker, he spoke considerable
upon the training of children, the necessity of
keeping a promise made to them, in order to
set a good example and preserve their confi-
dence, etc. Apostle F. M. Lyman spoke upon
duties of parents and of children to each other,
and upon celestial marriage and the word of
wisdom, and when closing his remarks, im-
plored the blessings of God upon all who were
trying to do right.
	Conference adjourned until March, to be held
in Tooele.
							ANN TATE,
				Cor. Sec. R. S., Tooele Stake.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Primary Association of Ephraim City,
held a fair in the Relief Society Hall on the
2d and 3d of November, 1882. representing
the taste and talent of the little ones from
four years of age to fourteen years. The hall
was lined with bed quilts, rugs, embroidered
and crochet tablecovers, framed pictures of
hair flowers, also of flowers of Berlin wool on
velvet, and a variety of handsome wall pockets.
One table was covered with such things as
breakfast shawls, hoods, stockings, baby shoes,
pillow lace, edging, embroidery, mats, cushions,
shell box, etc. Another table, some pastry and
good bread. On the boys' side was one sailing
vessel, the word WELCOME carved on wood,
rakes, rollers, wagon and harrows; also some
fine beets and other vegetables. No prizes
were given, but we hope the favor of this re-
port in the EXPONENT will help to encourage
the little ones. In the evening, a meeting was
held in the meetinghouse; after the children
had filled the programme, Prest. H. Madsen,
of Gunnison, and her Counselor, addressed the
meetimg, also Sister Greer, President of Manti
P. A. The leading authorities were all pres-
ent. Much satisfaction was given, and much
praise is due to the officers of each ward for
their earnest perseverance, and also to the
children.
				EMMA J. WILLIAMS,
				AUGUSTA STEVENS,
							Presidents,
				C. THORPE, Secretary.

ROCKVILLE, KANE CO.

	We are situated in the tops of the mountains,
as it were, where the Lord has called us to labor;
but notwithstanding our isolation, we can claim
the blessings of our Father in heaven, and he
is just as willing to own us, as he is our more
favored sisters who live near the great lights
that our Father has placed on the earth to
guide his people.


We hold our meetings semi-monthly, and in
our testimony meetings the spirit of the Lord
is poured out abundantly upon the sisters in
the gift of tongues, prophecy, and interpreta-
tion; they are a source of great pleasure to us.
We are called to part with our president,
who is preparing to start for Arizona. The
teachers of the society resolved to give her a
party to express our appreciation of her labors
as president. The schoolhouse was tastefully
decorated for the occasion, under the auspices
of the teachers.
	The society met on the evening of Jan. 3d,
1883, and as the husbands and brothers of the
members were present also, for we desire to
share our joys and sorrows with them, four
large tables were provided, on which was a
most luxurious feast, and even these would not
contain it all Owing to the adroit manage-
ment of our energetic teachers, and the unity
which exists among our sisters, our president
was entirely unconscious of the whole pro-
ceeding, until she, with her husband arrived
at the door, where Bishop C. N. Smith and
his wife "Aunt Lizzie" had escorted them.
After order was restored, Sister Kezia Hall,
manager of the proceedings, addressed Presi-
dent Eleanor C. Morris in a few chosen words,
stating the object of the meeting. After sup-
per, the company was entertained with music,
songs, recitations and remarks from the sisters
and brethren. Sister Amy T. Draper, in be-
half of the teachers, presented a beautiful
album to the president, whose heart was too
full to allow her sentiments to be expressed in
words. Counselor Lizzie C. Smith and
Margaret Brundage, expressed their regret at
losing so faithful a president, also followed by
our esteemed and faithful nurse, Mary Stocks;
after which, the following named teachers
spoke: Marilla T. Allred, Amanda M. Stout,
Sarah Farnes, Clerinda Langston, Henrietta
Stout, Ast. Sec., also Harriet Millet, President
of Shonesburg Society, and Ursulla Gifford,
President of Springdale Society, also Sister
Kezia Hall, of Rockville. Remarks were
made by the following brethren: H. B. Mor-
ris, Bishop C. N. Smith, Counselors James P.
Terry and Wm. Brundage, also C. M. Jen-
nings, Supt. Sunday School. Our worthy
Bishop presented our president with a beauti-
fully bound book of Doctrine and Covenants
as a token of his sincere regard, when she
responded in her quiet way. Sister Kezia
Hall announced that our programme was ex-
hausted, and gave the meeting into the hands
of the Bishop with a request that he or any-
one else could suggest something in which all
could be interested or instructed he expressed
his inability to do so, except a hearty hand-
shaking and God bless you to be given the de-
parting ones. After spending a most enjoyable
evening, in which a spirit of peace and union
prevailed, all felt satisfied and benefitted
with the evening's enjoyment.
		HENRIETTA STOUT, Ast. Sec. R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 127


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS REFLECTIONS.

	This morning as I sit in my warm and cozy
parlor thinking over our numerous blessings
and the goodness of our Heavenly Father in all
the years that have passed and wishing that
every one was equally favored with myself;
though not possessing the treasures of Mammon
or any worldly grandeur, I am truly thankful,
and that I have learned the worthlessness of
these things when not put to the right use,
and for the experience which has taught me
what true riches consist of. Among the
greatest of my blessings is in having gained
this knowledge, and how those greater and
lasting riches are to he obtained. "Better is a
handful with quietness than both the hands full
with travail and vexation of spirit." I have

[Column 2]
many earthly comforts and even luxuries which
I have sorely known the want of in days that
are past, but now in my declining years, I
have many things to cheer me—dwelling
within the bosom of my family and surrounded
by many tried and true friends.
	I was just feeling a little sad at the thought,
of my absent son and thinking if he with wife
and little ones could be with us to-day, our
cup would be overflowing, when who should
open the door but my husband’s oldest
daughter of the other branch, saying with a
bright smile, "Aunt Helen, I did not forget
you," and at the same time, handing me the
tokens of her remembrance aecompanied with
a kiss and the following note: "To Aunt
Helen, with love and best wishes for a happy
Christmas, from Ella," which be assured, were
more highly appreciated for being of her own
skilful handiwork. Other tokens of remem-
brance have been interchanged, but the above
incident will serve our purpose as a text from
which to preach a short Christmas sermon.
This has been her practice from the time that
I ceased dressing dolls and assisting "Santa
Claus" in preparing packages to fill the
numerous pairs of big and little stockings after
the owners had retired, that all might feel joy-
ous together on the long anxiously and looked
for Christmas morning. A delightful means
is this, when attainable, of conveying to one
another our love and kindly feelings, which
upon this day of all others should predomi-
nate, being the anniversary of the morning
that gave birth to Christ the Savior of all
mankind, who, history tells us, was born in a
manger and never had any home. "Foxes have
holes and birds of the air have nests, said
Jesus, but the Son of Man hath not where to
lay his head." We read that "wealth maketh
friends, but the poor is separated from his
neighbor." But it is the poor who can lay claim
to the promise of our Savior. We have no
paupers among us, which seemed to be a sur-
prise to the Commissioners, one of them asking
if we had hidden them away.
	We have the comfort of knowing that the
poor in our diflerent wards are looked after by
the Bishops and our Ladies Relief Societies,
and that they are never forgotten upon the
holidays. All who are able have donated
to make their hearts glad upon this Christmas
day. Not our people alone, but they have
been, remembered by merchants and other
charitable disposed persons outside of our
Church. But do we mothers realize the re-
sponsibilities that are devolving upon us, and
the solemn charge which our Father has com-
mitted into our care and management?

"For the hand that rocks the cradle,
Is the hand that rules the world."

	And oh! what a responsibility and what a
warfare with the various and conflicting pow-
ers that come in opposition to the good—influ-
ences which seem almost unavoidable, are
thrown around our children, and like a whirl-
pool, seem ready to swallow them up. We
have seen the efiects of it and the sorrows of
the disobedient, who have refused, to take
counsel, and have gone their own way, thereby
bringing irreparable ruin upon themselves and
the most heartrending anguish to the hearts of
their loving parents and friends, whose wise
counsel and reproofs they have wilfully disre-
garded. Among the most grievous sins is the
disrespect and irreverence paid to the authority
of the Supreme Being. Little consideration
is paid to the Sabbath day by scores who pro-
fess, or wish to he considered Latter-day Saints,
and how many of the children of Zion are
guilty of this sin ageinst God our Heavenly
Father, upon whom we are dependent; for all
that we enjoy, even for the smallest breath of
life, which He, in an instant, could extinguish
if He saw fit. Is it not a little strange that

[Column 3]
we can not afford to stop and devote one day
to Him out of seven, which He has com-
manded and said that we should keep Holy.
He left open no loop holes for us to find ex-
cuses for our indulgence in vain amusements,
or working to make preparations for them in
the coming week, as we see frequently done in
our midst. Those of more mature years, who
lead out, should set a different example to the
younger, instead of making a wrong use of the
Sabbath day; which many appear to think, un-
avoidable, but I protest against this idea, for
He makes no requirements that are impossible
for His children to fulfil. On this day we
should go to the house of worship, not with
long faces, but with a glad heart and a cheerful
countenance. All our vain thoughts and fool-
ish desires should give way to duty upon that
day, and if we can not restrain ourselves, but
will continue to diregard His wishes, then He
will surely disregard ours in a day to come, for
"As ye have sown, so shall ye reap " But to
the willing and obedient, He will say:

"Ye blessed of my Father, come, ye just,
Enter the joy eternal of your Lord;
Receive yonr crowns, ascend, and sit with Me,
At God’s right hand, in glory evermore."

	Our children should be examples instead of
stumbling blocks to the weak, and we should
all be united in working for the good and ele-
vation of mankind.
	Those modern scribes and pharisees whose
blindness has led them to believe the "Mor-
mons" and especially the ones who have ac-
cepted and obeyed the higher laws of God to be
only the ignorant dupes of a few cunning and
scheming men, devoid of all refinement in their
homes and surroundings, and all those sweet
and holy emotions which are so necessary to
true happiness are ill prepared to pass judg-
ment upon a whole people. For the Latter-
day Saints are trying in their every day walks
to become Saints and useful citizens, minding
their own business, exercising their faculties,
and improving and bringing into use, all the
talents which the Lord has lent them, for this
He requires at the hands of all, to fit and pre-
pare us for those higher walks of life in that
celestial and exalted state, where freed from
the pains and infirmities, which all flesh is heir
to here, we can continue on in our labors of
love, enjoying an eternity of unmolested and
unbroken happiness, in the midst of that glory
which we (in obedience to revelation, having
acted as saviors to the living as well as the
dead, to meet those promises made by our elder
brother Jesus Christ, to our Father, before the
foundation of this world, for the salvation and
exaltation of man) have helped to increase—
for He has promised that we shall become
heirs to God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ,
and as the Prophet Joseph said, "when he
(Jesus) gets his kingdom he will present it to
his Father, so that God may obtain kingdom
upon kingdom, and it will exalt him in glory.
He will then take a higher exaltation, and the
Savior will take his place and thereby become
exalted himself, so that Jesus treads in the
ways of his Father, and inherits what God
did before, and God is thus glorified and ex-
alted in the salvation and exaltation of all His
children." These are some of God’s simple
but grand and eternal truths,which come down
to the understanding even of a little child.
"Every way of a man is right in his own eyes;
but the Lord pondereth the heart." If the
honest portion of the world could, but know
the desires and aims of this people, called
Mormons, and comprehend, even in a small
degree, the high and holy calling to which we
have been called, and have a taste of that
Spirit which illuminates our whole being when
walking in obedience to the commandments of
the Almighty, they would never entertain such
erroneous ideas, and there would be no such


[Column 1]
wicked and foolish accusations raised against
so innocent and law abiding a people.
	Polygamy has been called the "Mormons'
pet theory." If such is the case, it has only
become so by the immense interest which the
world appear to take in it, and the unmerciful
attacks made upon it by those who are entirely
ignorant of the principle, and of the motives
which prompted us to accept it. The unprin-
cipled course which they are pursuing towards
us, compels us to stand in its defence, and they
have taken the wrong step to cool our zeal; we
refer them to the history of past ages for proofs
whether or no we speak truly. There was far
more danger of its dying a natural death,
when all went smoothly. But supposing this
part of our religion was done away with, would
it meet the ends aimed at by these pretended
reformers? No. The ones who are living in
polygamy have been excluded from the polls
by the Commissioners, but it seems to have
brought them no nearer to the solution of the
"problem" than they were before. There is
certainly no mystery in this patriarchal order
of marriage, being Bible doctrine. We are
more than willing that our record should be
placed side by side with theirs. Nothing could
please us better than to have this opportunity
of drawing comparisons, between our lives and
those of the pious souls who seem so pained
over the marriage relations of a few "Mor-
mons" in Utah. But the facts, when simmered
down, are contained in this little sentence:
They cannot handle the "Mormon" funds. The
signs and awful judgments which we see are
being poured out upon the proud and wicked
nations, show that their cup is full and running
over, and it is for us to see that we are not
found upon their side. For they trust in their
own strength, Goliath like, "But our confidence
is in the Almighty God, who, at a beck, can
cast down both them that come against us, and
also all the world."
	Let the mothers and the daughters of Zion
who have entered into this high and holy
order of marriage, be true to themselves and
to their covenants, for if they have done it
with pure motives, they will surely experience
the divine interposition of the of the Almighty in
their behalf, and he will avert the blow; for
hath he not many times delivered us out of
great troubles?
	Let us remember that the prayers of the
righteous availeth much. We read of the
faith of women anciently. There was Susan-
nah, who cried with a loud voice, and the Lord
heard her and raised up the spirit of Daniel,
who stood up in the midst of the people, who
had condemned her to die, and said, "Are ye
such fools, ye sons of Israel, that without ex-
amination or knowledge of the truth ye have
condemned a daughter of Israel? To those
who are planning against us and "have
prounced false judgment and condemned the
innocent and let the guilty go free," it will be
said, "Thou hast also lied against thine own
head, for the angel of God waiteth with the
sword that he may destroy you."
	Let us beware of the tongue of slander, and
that we do not bear false witness against our
neighbor. "Though I have the gift of prophecy,
and understand all mysteries, and all knowl-
edge, and though I have all faith, so that I
could remove mountains and have not charity,
I am nothing;"
	The Latter-day Saints need not look for
peace, for have we not been told that we were
to be tried in the furnace; and the extent of it,
I think we have scarcely begun yet to feel,
and those who have entered into the sacred
and holy order of matrimony thoughtlessly or
treated it as a trifling matter, would do well to
repent and seek unto the Lord until they ob-
tain a testimony for themselves, and not pro-
rastinate the day, for "slothfulness casteth into
deep sleep, and an idle soul shall suffer hun-

[Column 2]
ger." "To do justice and judgment is more
acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice."
	Now as the old year is dying out, and we
are about to commence a new one, let us turn
over another leaf, and begin by forming some
new resolutions, and instead of continuing in the
narrow gauge; step out upon a grander and a
broader scale where the Lord has designed to
place us, and we will be better able to meet
the repeated attacks from our enemies who
are striving to make inroads among us, and
are making their unrighteous and unlawful as-
saults upon our rights and our religion. We
who have been called the weaker vessels are
now being brought to the front and let us show
by our earnest works whether or no we are
made of the right material, that can stand
the burning, thereby proving ourselves an
honor to our Maker.
				HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


128	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The tricycle is rapidly becoming popular
among English ladies, and is considered an ex-
hilerating, healthy and fashionable pastime.

	The Crown Princess of Germany has be-
come patroness of a new institution in Berlin
for the training of married women and girls
as nurses in private families.

	Happy is the man who can bring the very
atmosphere of heaven with him whenever he
approaches us!—who acts upon our spirits as
the May breezes act upon the first shoots of
the tulip and the violet! He is a bountiful
giver. He confers on us light; he beams good-
ness into our souls; he teaches us patience; he
showers on us brotherly kindness; he illustrates
for us faith; he exhibits the true beauty of
meekness; he sheds hope by his very presence;
and his unflinching bravery has often been an
inspiration of valor to our failing hearts.
Next to Christ Himself, there is no blessing to
the community like a Christ-like Christian.—
Dr. T. L. Cuyler.

	JUDGE BIDDLE'S OPINION.—Judge Horace
P. Biddle, of the Indiana Supreme Bench,
says: "In a perfect government every human
being that belongs to it should be represented
without distinction of age, sex, nationality,
color, or condition. The legal status of every
member of the state should be the same, leav-
ing each individual to establish his own mental,
moral, social, religious, pecuniary, or any other
personal status, according to his desire, ability
and merit under the law. Whenever any per-
son is mentally too weak from infancy, age,
idiocy, lunacy, or any other cause, to exercise
the right of suffrage, it should be done for him
by his parents, guardian or whoever has the
legal right over his person and property. Such
a government may not be practicable now, per-
haps never can be, but the tendency of all the
free governments of the earth at the present
time is in that direction; and it is the duty of
every government to approximate such a
standard, and as rapidly as the condition of
its people will safely allow."

	Not a thousand years ago, an enormously
wealthy banker of the Hebrew persuasion,
travelling from Munich to Vienna by rail, at
length condescended to enter into conversation
with a carriage companion, and finally went so
far as to say, "You seem to be a good sort of a
fellow and a gentleman. Look here, I am go-
ing to Vienna to see my daughter, who is mar-
ried there, is awfully rich, and keeps a tip-top
house. I will introduce you to her." The
pleasant stranger thanked him and mentioned
that by a curious coincidence he, too, was trav-
elling to Vienna to see his daughter. "Your
daughter, indeed!" said the Jew banker, with


considerable arrogance, "and pray who may
she be?" "The Empress of Austria," was the
calm reply. The stranger was the Duke M[--]
imilian of Bavaria, father of the present E[-]
press of Austria and the ex-Queen of Naple[--]
accompanied by his aide-de-camp. The utter
collapse of the millionaire can be imagined.-
Ex.


KNITTING FACTORY
On 1st W. St., Bet. 21 and 31 W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infan[-]
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twel[-]
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Reside[--]

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIE[-]
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4th East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEAS[-]
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS,
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yams,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc, [--]

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 12[-]
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITT[--]

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and [---]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞Address, David James, Box 306, Salt lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER[--]
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, 79, First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY


Pres. John Taylor

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

