VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1882.	NO. 7.


[Column 1]
MISREPRESENTATION.

	"For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but
against princi palities, against powers, against the rulers
of the darkness of this world, against wickedness in
high places."
	"Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with
truth, and having on the breast plate of righteousness."
7th ch. of Ephesians 12 and 14 verses."

"The wounds of a friend (said the preacher)
	Are better than kisses untrue,"
But what of the many who smite us,
	With nought that is kindly in view.

There are mortals so mean and malicious,
	Who exclusively traffic in lies;
And some both inventive and vicious,
	Out of NOTHING can evil devise.

Both inside and outside, "the kingdom,"
	Detractors, their betters decry;
Yet be sure, there is triumph in patience,
	And wisdom knows when to reply.

All kinds of reproach, from all quarters,
	Must "the Saints" as their heritage take;
Must expect to be doubted and slandered,
	"And hated for righteousness sake."

"Our names are cast out" should that try us?
	Nay I for truth, with tradition must clash,
One! higher than even the highest—
	Will bring our redemption to pass.

And oh! to be worthy the favor—
	Of Him! who alone is supreme,
Outweighs the good name, the distinction,
	That many do highly esteem.

Of light! God hath open'd the portals,
	"The ensign! foretold is unfurled;
The truth! is restored unto mortals;
	The Gospel is preach'd to the world.

Though the world e'en reject and disdain it
	Though delusion ! delusion, they cry—
The Saints with their lives must sustain it,
	Must proclaim that God's kingdom is nigh.

The cry, "Lo! the Bridegroom is coming,"
	Must be sounded and heard far and near;
O'er the nations fierce judgments are looming,
	And our skirts of their blood must be clear.

And this to all kindreds and people—
	Of his purpose we testify still,
Whose empire shall widen and flourish,
	Till the universe bows to his will.

Oh! ye Saints, for our hopes of salvation,
	We're called much to do, much to dare;
And the cross of misrepresentation—
	We must patiently, willingly bear.

Account it as nothing, for falsehood
	Is surely the least of the tests,
That "the Prince of perdition" and darkness,
	Applies to the purest and best.

Shall we slight our commission appointed ?
	Shall we shrink from invectives and scorn?
Truth's messengers call'd and anointed,
	Must ne'er be afraid or forlorn,

Consider, how Christ was rejected,
	How his own was against Him array'd
He but spoke as his Father directed,
	And death was the price that He paid.

Consider the base contradictions—
	That the former-day Saints all endur'd
Yet what were their fiercest affictions.
	Compared to the blessings secur'd.

We must needs from integrity borrow—
		Support' and we'll yet have amends—
	[----]e Falsehoods of foes, and worse sorrow,
		[----]al by some we call'd friends.

[Column 2]
Our God is a bountiful giver.
	And to all who endure to be tried -
His "peace shall flow in like a river"
	And blessings shall come with the tide,
			EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City.


﻿THE FEAR OF THE LORD.
				-----
	Fear of the Lord is a reverential awe for
our Creator.  A veneration issuing from the
heart of every being, who acknowledges his
God. Wisely did one of the prophets remark
“The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wis-
dom.”  Corroborating this statement, we have
only to retrospect on hagiology, and recall the
incontrovertible success of God-fearing men,
from the time of our Savior, until the present.
Knowledge, like a stream, must have a foun-
tain-head.  Have scientists by chance-work dis-
covered the astounding facts we now see de-
veloped, which, giving impetus to advancement,
have brought man to his present standard?
Who could have implanted in the minds of
our world renowned inventors, that indefatig-
able ambition for the accomplishment of some
aim, but a God? With his consent only has
mortal man been permitted to control electric-
ity sufficiently to girt our globe with means of
communication; which is but one of the exist-
ing facts, proving the “march of intellect,”
which Atheists claim is the natural develop-
ment of the mind.
	Overthrowing this selfish theory, and sub-
stantiating the fact that God has, through in-
spiration, endowed men with capabilities, we
need only refer to the Pyramids of Egypt,
bearing astronomical truths, which to-day defy
science deciphering.  God’s ways differ widely
from the narrow, contracted devices of man;
hence the most illiterate, if humble and virtu-
ous, are often chosen as instruments to work
mighty miracles; for proof of this we need not
go beyond the pales of our Church.  Self-con-
ceit is an obstacle, rather than a stimulus, to
advancement!  Dependency upon a Divine
Being must precede all efforts, if success is de-
sired. How fallen would be a community,
from whom the fear of the Lord had been ob-
literated! Selfishness, sensuality, and crime
would  trample, defy, nay—extinguish, all
human laws.  Principle, duty, virtue and
peace would vanish like dew before the sun,
and return in like manner to the God that
gave them.
	Free from the piercing eye of Heaven, and
aided by the mantle of night, the blackest
crimes could be perpetrated, and remain mys-
teries; with no avenger for the unfortunate,
and perfect safety for the diabolical fiend,
whose desires satiated, could gaze with malig-
nant satisfaction on his dead victim, and gloat
in the secret of his fortune with no fear of
being brought to justice, either on this earth,
or at the eternal bar of God.  Reflect, O ye,
who fear not the Lord!  What a deplorable
condition would be yours did ye out-number
the faithful!  Warning take from the fate of
those disregarding their Creator in the days of
Noah; like "chaff" before the wind,” were they
swept off the face of the earth; the righteous
alone remaining to chant the sad requiem over
their fellow-men who, through their disobedi-
ence, received the just dues of an insulted God.
Our heart’s blood chills when we contemplate
his great power!  Man’s miniature wisdom
sinks into insignificancy when compared to
the universal knowledge and workings of
Heaven’s inmates.  Surely God’s omnipotent,
merciful gaze has protected us from infidelity;
for to-day we still find the majority of en-
lightened mankind are Christians, willing to
acknowledge a Superior Ruler, and give Him
the praise for their great achievements.
	Every person has a mission to perform, and if
he is prayerful and honors his Maker, the effects
of that mission will be gratifying to his inner
soul, even if ’tis only to improve self.  Some de-
clare their incompetency to advance one idea;
we wrong ourselves when we utter such a state-
ment; we show ingratitude to God whose likeness
we bear; we make him a partial Being, and com-
plainingly blame any other rather than our-
selves.  Lurking deep in the mind of every
intelligent individual are ideas, germs—which
(if cultivated) would benefit not only the pos-
sessor, but advance others.  The delicate,
modest violet, which in its simplicity chooses
rather the mellowed rays of the sun, and bash-
fully bows its head from the gaze of its com-
panions, when plucked and tastefully arranged
to blend with adjacent colors, adds to the
beauty of the bouquet, as much as the bold,
glaring poppy whose only mission seemingly
is to store up the color rays of “old Sol” and
radiate them regardless of taste. The soft,
velvet-like turf, mantling the bare earth,
assists in the landscape, and does its part to-
wards making the painting grand, beautiful
and picturesque, as much as does the majestic,
towering pine whose nature demands it to rear
its proud head, and rank with the foremost in
the scale of stateliness and beauty. Contrast
seems God’s aim. Why then murmur if our
capabilities appear inferior.  All possess some
special faculty, which is our prerogative to
ameliorate. Cast your mite, let it be ever so
molecular in your mind, God was the sower,
and like the grain of sand, it will count one in
the formation of a strand; or like the dew-drop
it sparkles and forms one crystal on the tender
vine.
					JENNIE HARRIS.
	Beaver.


NOTES AND NEWS.
The Woman’s Congress will hold its tenth
annual meeting in the City Hall, Portland,
Me., October 11th, 12th, and 13th.
The Friend of Women is a monthly magazine
recently started in Moscow, Russia. It is con-
ducted exclusively by women.
A woman dentist at Quebec has been de-
nounced by the press for pursuing an un-
womanly avocation, and the clergy of two
parishes have prohibited their people from
having anything to do with her.
“America’s salvation lies, under God, in
America’s women. It is precisely because I
desire to conserve our glorious past that I
plant myself on the platform of woman suff-
rage.”—[G. N. Boardman.	
The next Legislature will have to “submit”
the woman suffrage amendment and in 1884
the women will vote in this State, and don’t
you forget it. That amendment will carry by
100,000 majority. Politicians will do well to
begin electioneering the ladies—Iowa Leader


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.
		By Helen Mar Whitney.
	"At the next meeting President Joseph Smith
was present and addressed the young gentle-
men and ladies for some time. He expressed
his gratitude to Elder Kimball in the strong-
est terms, for having commenced and carried
on in so masterly a manner the good and
glorious work he had undertaken. He said
it would be the means of doing a great deal
of good, and of benefiting his young friends
more than they were aware of: that the grati-
tude of all good men, and of the young people
whom he had so much benefited, would follow
him through life; and “when gray hairs
should his temples adorn ” he could look back
with pleasure upon the winter of 1843, when
he was engaged in promoting the cause of
benevolence, and preparing his young friends
for the glorious career which awaited them.
He said that he stood before them with more
embarrasment, than he would before kings,
nobles and great men of the earth, for he
knew the crimes of which they were guilty,
and knew precisely how to address them; but
his young friends, before whom he now stood,
were guilty of none of these crimes, and he
hardly knew what to say. He said he had
never in his life seen such a large company of
young people assembled together, pay such
strict attention, listen with such profound
silence and keep such good order as the assem-
bly now before him. He praised their good
conduct, and taught them how to behave in
all places, explained to them their duty, and
advised them to organize themselves into a
society for the relief of the poor. As a com-
mencement to their benevolent efforts, he offered
a petition from an English brother by the
name of Modesly, who was lame, and who
wished them to build him a house that he
might have a home among the saints: he had
gathered together a few materials for this pur-
pose, but was unable to use them; and, relying
upon the active benevolence of the young
people of Nauvoo, he sends in his petition
that you may act upon it as you deem proper.
He advised them to choose a commitee to col-
lect funds for this purpose, and perform this
charitable work as soon as the weather became
suitable. He gave them much good advice,
to guide their conduct through life and pre-
pare them for a glorious eternity.
 “He said he was very much pleased with the
course Elder Kimball had taken, and hoped he
would continue his meetings and that the
young people would follow his teachings. A
meeting was appointed for the young men to
take these things into consideration: but owing
to the appointment not being generally circu-
lated, many young gentlemen were not present.
The meeting was however called to order; Wm.
Cutler was chosen president, and Marcellus L.
Bates clerk, Andrew Cahoon, C. V. Spencer
and Stephen Perry were appointed as a com-
mittee to draft a constitution for the govern-
ment of the society. After hearing several
speeches the meeting adjourned to the evening
of the 28th of March.
“At the next public meeting we were ad-
dressed by Elders Kimball and Roundy, and
as usual, received much good instruction.
Elder Kimball advised us to choose our wisest
young men as officers of the society, and ap-
point a commitee to wait upon the young
ladies, as well as gentlemen, and obtain their
subscription; for, said he, ‘they are as full of
benevolence, and as ready to assist in relieving
fthe poor, as are the young gentlemen.’ He
also advised that no one be excluded from the
society, of whatever sect or denomination he
might be; but give every one an opportunity
of doing all the good in their power. On this
evening the storm was raging tremendously,
and the cold north wind was blowing in a
most searching manner; yet, contrary to the
expectations of every one, the house was al-
most filled, not only with young men and boys,
but with the tender, lovely and beautiful
females of our city. They seemed determined
to brave every extremity of the weather,
rather than be absent from the place where
they received such good instructions.
 This showed the good effects which had al-
ready been produced by these meetings, and
cheered on the spirits of him who had just
commenced them, and had since been their
chief promoter. Instead of the young people
spending their evenings at parties, balls, etc.,
they would now leave all, and attend to their
meetings. Instead of hearing about this party
and that party, this dance and that dance, in
different parts of the city, their name was
scarcely mentioned, and the Young People’s
Meetings became the cheif topic of conversa-
tion.
“Pursuant to adjournment, the young men
convened together on the 21st of March. The
minutes of the last meeting were read and
approved, and the same officers appointed to
preside as on the former evening. The report
of the commitee was then called for, which
was as follows:
Whereas, The young gentlemen and ladies,
citizens of the city of Nauvoo, are desirous of
aiding and ameliorating the condition of the
poor and of carrying out the principles of
charity and benevolence, as taught in the holy
scriptures, thereof be it,
Resolved, That we form ourselves into a so-
ciety to be styled the “Young Gentlemen and
Ladies Relief Society of Nauvoo,” and that
we be governed by the' following articles, to
wit:
	1st. There shall annually be elected by the
society, on the last Tuesday in March, a presi-
dent, vice president, treasurer and secretary.
2nd. It shall be the duty of the president to
preside over all meetings of the society.
3d. It shall be the duty of the vice president
to preside over all meetings in the absence of
the president.
It shall be the duty of the treasurer to re-
ceive all funds of the society, and to keep a
correct record of all the receipts and disburse-
ments, also from whom received, and to whose
benefit appropriated, and make a report of the
same, as often as required by the society.
4th. It shall furthermore be the duty of the
said treasurer, before entering into office, to
give bonds to the amount of one thousand
dollars to the society, for the faithful discharge
of all duties incumbent upon 	him, which shall
be lodged in the hands of the Trustee in Trust.
5th. It shall be the duty of the secretary to
keep a record of all the proceedings of the
society.
	6th. There shall annually be chosen a com-
mittee of vigilance, consisting of five persons,
whose duties it shall be to search out the poor
of our city, and make known to the society the
wants of those whom they, in their judgment,
shall consider most deserving of our assistance.
	7th. The society shall meet on the last
Tuesday in each month, at 6 o'clock P. M.
	8th. A special meeting of the society can be
called by a petition of twelve of the members,
to the secretary, whose duty it shall be to give
notice of the same, by posting up a written
notice in at least three of the most public
places in the city, at least three days previous
to said meeting.
 9th. This constitution shall be lodged in the
hands of the secretary, whose duty it shall be
to present it at each meeting of the society,
and receive the names of all persons wishing
to become members, under thirty years of age,
who can sustain a good moral character, and
who are willing to support this constitution.
10th. Any person being a member of this
society, and being found guilty of any djsor-
derly conduct, or refusing to comply with the
rules of the society, can be expelled at any
regular meeting of the same, by a vote of the
majority of the members present.
1th. In the event of a removal, by death,
or prolonged absence of either of the officers,
it shall be the prerogative of the society to ap-
point another m his stead.
12th. This constitution shall be subject to
an amendment at any regular meeting of.the
society, by the voice of two-thirds of the mem-
bers present.”
“This report was unanimously adopted, and
the meeting then proceeded to choose their
officers. William Walker was chosen presi-
dent, William Cutler, vice president; Lorin
Walker, treasurer, and James M. Monroe,
secretary. Stephen Perry, Marcellus L. Bates,
R. A. Aired, William H. Kimball, and Gar-
ret Ivans were appointed as a commitee of vigi-
lenco. Alter some discussion the meeting ad-
journed until the next Tuesday evening.”
“At the next public meeting, the large and
crowded assembly were addressed at consider-
able length, by Elders Jedediah M. Grant, Brig-
ham Young and Heber C. Kimball. The ad-
dresses were very interesting and highly in-
structive, as the breathless silence and deep at-
tention of the audience attested.
“This is, in short, a history of this society,
which bids fair to be one of the most useful
and benevolent societies in the Union. Through-
out all of the meetings, the profound silence
and the best of order was kept up continually.
If the youth throughout our land would fol-
low this good example and form themselves in-
to such societies, there would be much less sin,
iniquity, misery and degradation among the
young people than there is at the present day;
there would not be as many suffering poor,
neither would there be as much immorality
among the people. But on the contrary,
peace, good order, happiness, cheerfulness and
plenty would reign in the land, the Lord
would look down from his holy habitation and
smile upon us and bless us all.”
I. M. Monroe, Secy.
To be Continued.


THE AMERICAN WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCI-
ATION will hold its Thirteenth Annual Meet-
ing, in Omaha, Nebraska, at the Baptist Church,
September, 12 and 13, beginning its sessions on
Tuesday, Sept. 12 at 12 and at 7:30 P. M. All
friends of Woman Suffrage who are in sym-
pathy with the principles and methods of the
Association, are respectfully invited to attend.
	Auxiliary State and local societies are en-
titled to send delegates equal in number to
the congressional delegations of their respec-
tive states and territories. Where vacancies
occur, they may be supplied by alternates from
these localities, in attendance at the conven-
tion. All members of the Association have a
right to take part in the discussions.
	The Woman Suffrage Constitutional Amend-
ment now pending in Nebraska gives the
present occasion special interest and import-
ance. Some of the speakers in attendance
will remain and take part in the campaign. A
full attendance of suffragists is earnestly re-
quested.
	Every auxiliary State and local society is
invited to send a report of its work, and to
propose plans of action. Efforts will be made
to secure reduced railroad and hotel fares; also
hospitality at Omaha during the convention,
of which notice will be given hereafter in the
WOMAN'S JOURNAL.
	By order of the Executive Committe,
		ERASMUS M. CORRELL, Pres.
		LUCY STONE, Chair. Ex. Com.
		HENRY B. BLACKWELL, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 51


LINES.

	Suggested by a discourse delivered in the Tabernacle,
Salt Lake City, Aug. 13th, 1882 by a young missionary,
Matthias Cowley.

"The cares of the world" the demands of existence,
	Encumber so many, who mean to be true;
If we seek not the Lord, and his promised assistance
	We keep not the end of our calling in view.

How many grow cold, yea, their "first love" is frozen;
	So lost to the light, they perceive not a ray,
"How many are call'd, but how few are the chosen—,
	How strait is the gate, and how narrow the way."

Yet "the seed" was all good by "the sower" implanted,
	But so much of it fell on such profitless soil;
Oh! not unto all is stability granted,
	And seemingly vain is "the husband-man's toil.

Ah! no, not in vain, not in vain, doth he labor,
	If he turns but one soul from his errors away;
For such, he shall even be counted a Savior,
	And shall hide many sins, at the great judgment day.

"And they, who to righteousness turn or win many,
	Who work in "the vineyard" with zeal and with
		might,
Though the last ones employed, shall be well as any *
And shall shine as the stars in the firmament bright.

May our young men and maidens, "the children of Zion"
	Be fill'd with the zeal that the Gospel inspires;
May they all love the light, and be bold as a lion—
	For the truth, e'en the faith of their mothers and sires;
That the Lord may have labor'rs indeed to rely on—
	Who will vigilant be, till their life lease expires.

May they seek to be wise—to obtain understanding,
	Yea, covet the knowledge, our God doth bestow,
That the Lord speaking through them—attention com-
		manding—
	The hearts of their hearers within them shall glow,
Oh could we but see ALL our youths' thus expanding,
	What peace and what pleasure their parents would
	know.
						EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	Salt Lake City Aug. 14th, 1882.
*	Math. 20th ch, 9th and following verses.


A FRAGMENT.

HONORA TO HER BABE.
I won thee down by the gates of death,
	And must I go again,
To win by test of a deeper woe
	His smile and praise as then?
My arms were weary with thy dear weight,
	When his might have rested mine,
They were wound around a stranger's torm,
	Instead, sweet babe, of thine.
Kisses that would have quieted thee,
	On a wanton's lips he pressed,
And thou hast a poisoned sorrow drained
	From thy poor mother's breast.
I am faint my love, am weak, but no--
	Thy mother must not fall,
But mount the watch-tower of her soul
	Along this gloomy wall.
O, guardian angels! reach thy hands
	And help these feet to climb,
Up from this venomed poisoned marsh,
	To height and breath sublime.
Away from these venomed eyes that shine
	With light like baleful star,
To freer heights where grander sould,
	Lion and eagle are.
My lips are faint, my love, for food,
	The gold his hands denied,
Is lavished free in tempting fruits
	When she is by his side.
Upon her bosom the flaunting flower
	No tender grace doth bear,
Nor odor sweet to reveal for her
	A spirit fine and rare.
Rather is she like berries ripe,
	Or wine that gloweth red,
That tempt the hands and lips to take,
	And rule the thoughtless head.


Not like a flower that climbing lifts, 
	Its chalice to the sky,
But like a vine that tangling spreads
	Where'er his pathway lie.

And like the vine, so, neath the feet
	Trampled at last to be--
While I above like withered branch
	Droop from thy parent tree.

And yet as oft from withered branch
	The weak a staff may make--
So thou my love doth rest on me
	The while my heart doth break.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
July, 1882.


A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
Continued.
After the return of the Horne family from
Parowan, and the husband’s return from Dixie,
prosperity seemed to dawn upon them propit-
ously, and their home was indeed a happy one.
Boys and girls just merging into manhood and
womanhood attracted attention to the house,
and the young people of the Ward, and indeed
of the City, were fond of spending their even-
ings at the home of these young folks; the
children were all of them singers too, and
musically as well as socially inclined, which
generally makes homes more attractive, not
only to the inmates but to friends and acquaint-
ances.
 There is nothing more delightful, than a
house full of cultivated, young people, es-
pecially, those who sing and play, and are
somewhat accomplished. Large  families
where all is orderly and each one takes pleas-
ure in the other’s happiness are the most’charm-
ing homes. Such a one was Mrs. Horne’s;
peace, contentment and quiet brooded over the
habitation and like the woman mentioned in
Proverbs, “She openeth her mouth with wis-
dom and in her tongue is the law of kindness,”
“She looketh well to the ways of her house-
hold, and eateth not the bread of idleness.”
Mrs. Horne is not only industrious herself
but she has trained her children in habits of
industry and punctuality that will recommend
them in every situation in life, whether public
or private.
Mrs. Horne’s eldest son Henry was married
July 24th, 1860, to Miss Mary Ann Crismon.
This was quite an important event, being the
first marriage in so large a family. It was a
union in every way desirable to all parties con-
cerned and has proved to be a happy one. At
resent and for some years past, Henry Horne
as resided with his family in Paris, Idaho,
where he is highly respected.
On the 5th of April 1861, Mrs. Horne’s
fifteenth child was borne, a daughter, and was
named Clara Ella. The mother’s health had
been quite delicate for some time, and she was
ill prepared to endure any additional hardship
or trial, but about two weeks after the birth of
the babe Mr. Horne was called a second time
to go to the Missouri river to meet accompany
of Saints. This was a severe trial, with such
a large family, to be left with all the respon-
sibility of the household and a young babe to
take care of. But Mrs. Horne trusted in the
help of a higher than an earthly power or she
could not have risen above the heavy burdens
she was called upon from time to time to en-
dure. The little Clara was rather a delicate
child and required much care and attention.
In the month of May she was taken very ill
and it seemed beyond the power of human aid
to save her; she was so low at one time that
she ceased to breathe and it was thought she
was dead, but through mighty faith and active
nursing she was restored to life and health.
Again in the fall of the same year the babe,
Clara, had whooping cough which, to all
human appearance, threatened to destroy her
life, yet through careful nursing, faith and ad-
ministration according to the order of the
Gospel she was saved, and is to-day a healthy,
promising young woman, with the highest
possibilities of attainment in view.
 Marriages are always interesting events, and
in large households, where there are several
young people, they are generally merry making
times,—seasons to look back upon with pleas-
ure in years afterwards; so it has been in the
Horne family. The eldest daughter was married
the 15th of April 1862, to Edward M. Webb;
just twenty years ago now. They reside at
the present time in Deseret, Utah, and have
several children. The next rather important
event in the family was the mission of Joseph
Smith Horne to Europe in May 1865. His des-
tination was Switzerland. Mrs. Horne,although
a tender and affectionate mother, rejoiced that
her son was counted worthy to be called to
preach the everlasting Gospel in foreign lands,
and labor in the vineyard of his Lord and
master, and her prayers were fervent in his be-
half that he might fill the mission honorably,
laboring faithfully to convince the honest in
heart. Her prayers were answered. He went
forth in the fear of the Lord, a stranger in a
strange land, without the knowledge of the
language spoken in that country. He first
studied the German language and succeeded so
well,that in a short time he was able to preach
a little, and gradually gained so complete a
knowledge of German that he accomplished a
good work, remaining away three years and a
half. November 10th, 1867, Mrs. Horne’s
second daughter Leonora Taylor was married
to George B. Spencer, son of Elder Orson
Spencer. Ten days after their marriage the
young couple left Salt Lake City to go South
and assist in colonizing on the Muddy,—-a mis-
sion that many of the Latter-day Saints have
reason to remember. It was one of the many
difficult and laborious missions that the Saints
have had to endure in the settlement of the
desolate, barren, desert lands, in Utah. This
wedding tour was entirely different to the
fashionable trips taken nowadays. Indeed it
is scarcely possible for the young people of
Utah to appreciate what the fathers and moth-
ers, grandfathers and grandmothers have done,
and the hardships they have endured to make
these happy homes and surroundings that the
children enjoy at the present time. Mr. and
Mrs. Spencer have had several children and
have five now living. They reside in Paris,
Idaho at present—Mrs. Leonora Spencer gives
promise of being a strong-minded woman, like
her mother; is already very active in all ben-
evolent work, and has decided principles of
her own.
	The 20th of September 1868, Richard S.
Horne was married to Elizabeth Price, and on
the 18th of November of the same year Joseph
who had returned home in August from his
mission was also married; Lydia Ann Weiler,
daughter of Bishop Weiler of the third ward,
Salt Lake City, was the happy young bride.
Soon after their marriage they went to live at
Gunnison, Joseph having been called to pre-
side as Bishop over that place. He was quite
a young man to fill such a responsible position,
but he was in every way worthy the honor, and
manifested by his course the ability and enter-
prise so requisite in the performance of the
duties of a Bishop, and  father of a ward.
Mrs. Horne had then five children married
and all living so far from home that she could
not see them without taking a journey of a few
days, and at that time traveling about the
country was all done with teams.
To be Continued.


52	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 1, 1882.


THE UTAH COMMISSION.
 The Commissioners appointed by Pres. Arthur
to fix up affairs in Utah, arrived here on Friday
evening August 18. Several prominent gentle-
men of this city and vicinity went to Ogden to
meet them. They manifested a friendly feeling
towards the people, and everything passed off
pleasantly. On Saturday evening a public re-
ception was given in the Walker Opera House,
under the nuspices of Gov. Murray. A large
number of citizens both gentlemen and ladies
attended, and were introduced to the Commis-
sioners. Gov. Ramsay, Ex. Senator Paddock
Mr. Carlton, Mr. Pettigrew and Mr. Godfrey,
are the gentlemen who form the commission.
They are all from the Western States, but we
venture to say they knew comparatively little of 
Utah and its people, save what the newspapers
give. What course they will take to enforce the
Edmund's law, does not yet appear, but It will
require great wisdom, caution and judgement of
a superior quality to discriminate; and then
again there are so many interpretations of the
law itself by the lawyers, that it would really
seem as though the Edmunds bill was a second
edition of the problem, that it was designed to
explain or to do away with. As a sequel to a novel
often plunges the reader deeper into mystery
than the story itself, so it is likely to be in this
case. There is an old saying "who shall decido
when doctors disagree?” In this instance it
would be appropriate to say “who shall decide
when” congressmen “disagree?” Instead of eluci-
dating clearly to the understanding of interested
parties, Congress adds to the catalogue of unex-
plainable statutes by authorizing the Governor to
make appointments to fill vacancies that have
never existed. This puzzles the Governor and
his aids, and has, so we have been informed,
caused him to grow very serious and contem-
plative. It is an unfortunate dilemma to soy
the least of it, and looks very much as if every-
thing dono to facilitate the enforcement of the
Edmund’s law, only complicated the difficulties
to be encountered or placed another obstacle In
the way to hinder or retard the movement un-
der consideration.
 It appears the Commissioners since arriving
here have made good use of their time, and have
shown a desire to adjust matters according to
the laws and statues of Utah. After deliberat-
ing together for two days, and thoroughly ex-
amining the law in regard to elections, the fol-
lowing resolutions were adopted and furnished
for publication.
“Whereas, it is provided by the revised Stat-
utes of the United States (see. 1862) that every
territory shall have the right to send a delegate
to the house of representatives of the United
States; and as it is further provided (sec. 25)
that such election shall be held in ail the terri-
tories of the United States on the Tuesday after
the first Monday in Novembar 1882, therefore,
Resolved, That in order to prepare for such
election in the territory of Utah on the day so
established, the Commission will proceed forth-
with to appoint registration officers to revise the
lists now on file in the office of the clerk of each
of the several counties in the territory in the
manner required by law.”
This step to hold an election is legitimate and
gives the people some confidence in the fairness
of the proceedings of the commission. The re-
vision of the registration lists will be rather a
delicate matter, but one of great interest, and
will require caution as well as ability. One thing
is certain, that the people of Utah are quick of
perception and not easily deceived,they will soon
understand the true state of affairs, and whether
the law is to be administered in justice and equ-
ity, tempered with that quality, that seasons
Justice, or whether bitterness and prejudice are
a part of the element which controls those who
are to be actively engaged in carrying out the
wishes of the Congress of the United States. It
is the earnest wish of every true Latter-day
Saint that these Commissioners should investi-
gate for themselves, and not depend upon Dame
Rumor, and act as wise dispensers of the law
and as those who love their fellow-men.


[Column 1]
DESERET HOSPITAL CONCERT.

	The Concert in the Tabernacle, Thursday
evening August 10, was quite a brilliant affair.
The building was illuminated with eight electric
lights, the effect being most intensely beautiful.
Everything had been arranged in perfect order,
so there was no jar or confusion, and all worked
harmoniously. Pres. Angus M. Cannon offered
prayer, and also made a few remarks to the audi-
ence, expressing a desire that there should be no
loud laughter or boisterous applause, no clapping
of hands or stamping of feet, on account of its
being a place of divine worship. The orchestra
under the management of Prof. C. J. Thomas
played some of their choice music in the best
manner. The children trained by Mr. Evan
Stevens, did their part wonderfully well, their
fresh young voices ringing out full and clear in
rich strains of melody. Bro. Stevens has had
great patience and tact to accomplish so much in
so short a time, and deserves the thanks and
gratitude of the public he is serving so faithfully.
The Tabernacle choir in charge of Prof. Beesley,
rendered their part of the performance excel-
lently well; the selection from the "Messiah"
"He shall feed his flock," was admirably ex-
ecuted. The "Harvest Moon" by the choir was
another charming feature of the entertainment.
The Mendelssohn Club, added greatly to the en-
joyment of the evening, their songs being well
chosen and harmoniously given.
	The songs given by Miss Nellie Druce, Miss
Laura Nebeker and Miss Agnes Olsen, were
highly appreciated; all these young ladies are
talented singers, and great favorites of the peo-
ple. Mr. H. Gardner appeared in a song, which
delighted the audience, and Mr. E. Stevens
sung in character "The Old Maid" or "I'm 95."
He has a wonderful voice and it rang out on the
very highest notes clear as a bell. The song was
a comic one as its title indicates and a little ebul-
lition of enthusiastic appreciation was given, in
as quiet a way as was possible in a crowded
assembly. The Concert being in a place dedi-
cated to sacred worship, no loud applause could
be permitted. The evening's entertainment
closed with a benediction by Elder George
Goddard, one of the executive committee of ar-
rangements.
	The Officers of the Deseret Hospital Associa-
tion desire to return their thanks and gratitude
to all the musicians, singers and children, who so
kindly proffered their services for the benefit of
the Hospital enterprise, and trust they will

[Column 2]
never regret using their time and talent in this
humane direction. Great credit is due to the
musical committee for their assiduity and faith-
fulness in making the performance so creditable
in every respect. And while we desire to be
just to all, we should not forget Mr. Joseph
Daynes, who accompanied the choir on the large
organ and who added to the enjoyment by his
fine organ solo.
	Financially the Concert was not so successful
as some of the committee had anticipated, the
whole of the proceeds only amounting to $848,
70,—expenditures $118,65, leaving $780,05. Of
this cash $598,45 orders $131.60. Included in
this amount was a donation from one of our
brethren of $50,00—who styled himself "a friend
to the enterprise."
	The question is frequently asked by those not
familiar with the work of establishing the Hos-
pital. "Have you many patients in the building
yet?" In order that the public may have some
idea of what is going on in the incipient stages
of the opening, we will publish the report of the
medical board for the month of July, which only
commenced with the 8th. of that month end-
ing with the 31st.

	Medical report of the Deseret Hospital for the
month of July 1882. Paitents received into the
Hospital 7. Died 1. Discharged none. Remain-
ing 6. Out patients prescribed for by the house-
surgeon 3. Operation-ovariotomy. Visits by
the visiting board Dr. S. B. Young 31—Dr. W.
F. Anderson, 5, prescriptions and treatment by
the house surgeon 57 [signed] E. B. Ferguson,
House Surgeon.


HOME AFFAIRRS.
	The sisters who are putting up fruit, jelly and
so forth, would center a favor upon the sick and
afflicted if they would put up a few cans extra
for the Deseret Hospital.
	We return our sincere thanks to the officers of
the American Woman’s Suffrage Assaciation for
the very kind and cordial invitation extended to
us, likewise our dear friend Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, who has also received a special invita-
tion to attend the Convention, to be held in
Omaha Sept, 12 and 13. We publish elsewhere
the official announcement.
	We have been requested to remind the sisters
who preside in each of the branch Societies, in
this Stake of Zion, that it will be necessary to
furnish a six months report in good time, for the
coming Conference to be held on Friday the
22d of September, in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms. Secretaries ehould be particularly
prompt in this matter. Each Society should be
represented by the President if possible, or if not
by one of her Counselors or Secretary.
Presiden[-]s of Relief Society Y. L. M. I. A.
and P. A. who preside In the several Stakes of
Zion will please romembor that full semi-annual
reports of these organizations in their respective
Stakes should be forwarded to the Secretary of
the central board early enough to be incorpor-
ated into tbe general report, which is due at
Pres. John Taylor’s office ten days previous to
the coming October Conference. Secretaries
are hereby notified to forward said reports of
Relief Society to Sarah M. Kimball, Salt Lake
City. Y. L. M. I. A. to Louie Wells, Care
Woman’s Exponent. P. A. to Lillie Freeze,
Salt Lake City.
On Thursday August 17, Hon. George Q. Can-
non returned from Washington, whither he
went last fall, as the duly elected delegate to the
Congress of the United States. A party [ink stain on edge of page]
gentlemen and ladies from this city met hi[-] [ink stain on edge of page]
Ogden, according him the honor du[-] to his [ink stain on edge of page]


ition as the people's representative. However
as is well known all over the country, Mr. Can-
non was refused his seat in the House, and Utah
left without representation. The people were
thus deprived of their just rights as citizens of a
great and growing Republic. It is a matter of
deep regret to all lovers of justice and fairness
that such occurrences should take place, especial-
ly when no accusation could be sustained against
him, except on account of his religion; Pres.
Cannon is highly respected in Washington as we
have good reason to know, his record is clear
there without a blot. The people of Utah
hold him in the highest estimation, and he will
live in the hearts of thousands of honest men
and women forever, notwithstanding the decis-
ion of Congress. He was accompanied home by
Bro. John Irvine whose letters from Washing-
ton to the Deseret News have given its readers
Congressional items, in such an intelligent and
agreeable style.
	Meeting at Farmer's Ward S. L. Co. Tuesday
Aug. 22d, 1882, called to organize a Primary
Association, Bishop Louis Mousley present, also
Elder Willard Snow, Superintendent of the
Sunday School of the Ward. The Bishop re-
quested Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith to take
charge of the meeting and organize. Children
sang "We thank thee, O God for a prophet."
Prayer by Mrs. M. I. Horne, sung "O, my
Father" etc. Sister Eliza then made some re-
marks to the children, and the following officers
were nominated and sustained. Mrs. Sarah A.
Cannon, President; Mrs. Reba B. Pratt and
Miss Mamie Alice Cannon, Counselors; Miss
Clara Woodruff, Secretary; Master Hugh Can-
non, Assistant Secretary and Master Joseph S.
Mousley, Treasurer. Thirty-six names were en-
rolled as members. Sister Eliza gave some ex-
cellent instruction to the children and Sisters
E. C. Clawson, E. S. Taylor, M. I. Horne and
E. B. Wells each occupied a few moments in
addressing the children. Sung "Praise ye the
Lord," benediction by the Bishop.
	At noon the ladies repaired to the residence of
Mrs. Emma Woodruff, where a delicious dinner
was served. At two p. m. there was a special
meeting of the Relief Society, Mrs. Emma
Woodruff presiding. After singing and prayer,
minutes were read, and the meeting was ad-
dressed by Sisters M. I. Horne, Helen Mar
Whitney, E. S. Taylor, R. R. Grant, E. B.
Wells and Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith. Many
interesting subjects were alluded to and ideas
thrown out and suggestions made, calculated to
do much good if put in practise.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿PRIMARY SPEAKER.
"Recitations for the Primary Associations in
Poetry, Dialogues and Prose,” by Eliza R. Snow
Smith, is now ready for sale. The long talked
of book prepared for the children of Zion, by one
who has published so much for them, and as-
sisted so ably in organizations for their spiritual
cultivation and progress, is now completed, and
we think will meet the approbation of the public.
It contains 200 pages, and the author says is
"Adapted to the capacities of members from the
ages of ten to fifteen years.” The first page con-
tains “A Few Hints To Presiding Officers.”
The selections have been judiciously and care-
fully made, and the original pieces as well, are in
perfect keeping with the faith and teaching of
the Latter-day Saint.
 This work has been greatly needed in the As-
sociations, and we trust the presiding sisters
will avail themselves of the first opportunity to
bring it into use in all the various settle-
ments. The Book can be procured at the Des-
eret Kewa Office, and at the Office of WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. Price 25 cts.


THE PRESENT CRUSADE.

DEAR EDITOR:--If you will allow me a small
space in your paper, I would like to express a
few of my thoughs on the present crusade
against us as a people.
	I joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in my native land (England) before
polygamy was heard of, yet, we were persecuted
then, as now, because we believed Joseph Smith
was a prophet, and that he had received revela-
tion from heaven. Our dearest friends turned
against us, and  all were bitter in denouncing
that great delusion. If we should discard poly-
gamy from our faith to morrow they would find
some plea against us.  We said we would go to
America, where we could enjoy liberty of con-
science, and be protected under the broad folds
of the American flag and the liberal Constitution
framed by noble men inspired as we believe by
heaven. Now I feel humiliated and ashamed
for our friends across the water, to read of the
Bills passed by Congress against us.
	Oh! members of Congress and rulers of the
nation, for your own sakes and that of your
families, pause well, and consider ere you as-
sume the grave responsibility of separating
wives from their husbands, and children from
their parents, and breaking up our happy homes
in these peaceful vales.  "Let them cast the
beam from their own eyes," cleanse their own
platter and see who among them is prepared to
cast the first stone.  But it is only here in Utah
that sin and wickedness exists, all they do is
justified.  It is too true, there is much among
ua that is grievous and sinful, but who have we
to thank for introducing temptations and bad
examples to lead our youth, away from the paths
of virtue and temperance? Many have been led
away but the majority have a germ within them
though latent and they would, if called upon,
rise up and defend their religion, and resent the
abuse heaped upon the heads of their aged
parents.
	Are we fearful and discouraged? Not in the
least, persecution does us good; we are rather
used to it.  Former persecutions are not obliter-
ated from our memories, besides, it prevents us
from getting into that deplorable state of neither
hot nor cold, of whom the Lord says He "will
spew them out of his mouth."
	In him we trust, and he will never desert his
faithful people.			E. BENTLY.


TO THE Y. L. M. I. A.—CACHE STAKE.
 Dear Sisters: As we wish all the Y.L.M
I.A. in the Stake to work as uniformly as pos-
sible, we deem it necessary to make the follow-
ing suggestions. We wish to be represented in
the Annual Fair this fall. Therefore desire you
to hold meetings at least once in two weeks, for,
the purpose of making articles of fancy work,
as the members of your association, have talent
and taste for making. Such as fine needle work
of all kinds, artificial flowers, in was, cloth, tar
latan, zephyr, and hair, also crotchet work, nett-
ing and knitting; embroidery in silk and cotton.
The best articles to be selected and sent to the
Fair, where they can be sold, thereby creating a
fund to defray the expenses of your Society. If
not sold, held subject to your order. Hold your
regular meetings once a week; encourage a more
thorough reading of our Church works. We
would like toseeall of the columns of the Blanks,
filled ont more fully than the present ones.
**We require one dollar from every associ-
ation In our Stake to be sent to the secretary
(Ally Martineau) to defray the expenditures of
the Central Board for stationery, stamps, etc.
We wish the President, or at least one of her
Counselors, to be present at our Confer-


ence, to be held In Logan on the 20th of May,
to give a verbal report of her Association. We
let you know this early that you may have time
to make your arrangements. When any of your
members are called upon for reading an essay,
or to look up Bible references, to sing a song, to
speak, or write upon any subject, do not allow
them to think they can refuse, but impress it
upon them, that it is their duty to respond to
every call that is made upon them, from time to
time. Use your influence to have them testify
to the great blessings, that we enjoy as a people,
and also to the truth of the Gospel of Christ.
Cultivate a disposition to bear with each other
in taking a part in the meetings. Strengthen
and encourage, rather than criticise the efforts
that are made by your members to discharge
the duties which may be required of them. En-
courage cleanliness in person, and neatness in
dress. When you cannot be present at your
meetings have your Counselors conduct them,
if they cannot attend, appoint some one to take
charge. Your meetings must be kept up regular-
ly. Use chaste and refined language in all your
conversation. Discountenance back-biting or
evil speaking. Strive to obtain the spirit of the
Lord, which will lead you into all truth and
virtue. Continue your meetings until other-
wise notified. May the blessings of the Lord
attend your efforts to improve in all good works,
is ever the prayer of your co-laborers in the
cause of Mutual Improvement.
Your Sisters In the Gospel. 
(Signed)		HARRIET A. PRESTON,
			IDA IONE COOK,
			KINNIE B. CAINE.
				Stake Presidency.
Logan, March 29th, 1882.


﻿OBITUARY.

	With regret we record the death of Elizabeth
beloved wife of Samuel H. Bennion, and
daughter of Adam and Jennet Sharp, who died
at Vernon, Tooele County July 27th, 1882.
Sister Bennion was born Nov. 24th 1853 in Salt
Lake City, was a good, faithful, and energetic
Latter-day Saint; and held the office of Secre-
tary in the Relief Society of Vernon. Her
death has cast a deep gloom over our little settle-
ment, for she was esteemed and beloved by us
all. She was the mother of one son and three
daughters, surviving the birth of the third only
ten hours, mother and babe were laid away to
rest in the same coffin. She leaves a husband
and two little girls and many friends to mourn
her untimely end. May God comfort the
bereaved.
	"I am so tired, so tired"
	God heard the piteous cry
	In yonder courts on high,
	Gave thee the rest desired
	Though stricken hearts in angush weep
	"He giveth his beloved sleep."
							E. A. B.


LOA FREEMONT RELIEF SOCIETY.

	A reorganization of the Relief Society of Loa
Freemont Ward, Plute Co. in the Sevier Stake
of Zion, was effected June 23, 1882 by Bishop E.
H. Blackburn and Counselors. The following
officers were elected and sustained. President
Mrs. Alice Darton, Counselors Mrs. Mary Eliot
and V. L. Blackburn, Secretary Sarah J. Black-
burn, Assistant Secretary Hannah Blackburn,
Treasurer, Maria Young, Assistant Treasurer
Persis Young; Presiding Teacher, Nancy Black-
burn.
	The Society is in good working order, with
an efficient quorum of teachers, and such aids as
are needed to carry on the work, and accomplish
much good. The sisters in this Ward are de-


sirous of doing good and uniting with those en-
gaged in advancing the higher interests of the
Latter-day Saints.
		SARAH J. BLACKBURN, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

FIRST WARD PRIMARY.

	Meeting of the First Ward Primary Associ-
ation held in the schoolhouse August 8th, 1882.
After the usual opening exercises over eight
dollars was awarded as prizes to the members,
who had articles on exhibition at the late Prim-
ary Fair. Miss Anna Van Tassel was also
given a lovely pair of vases as sweep stakes
prize, she having had the most articles on ex-
hibition on the girls' side. George Hill re-
ceived a neat pocket book for having the most
on the boys' side. Secretary Julia A. Young
was presented with a lovely Autograph Album
as a token of appreciation for her faithful
labor. President A. M. B. Fletcher presented
Counselor Mary W. Musser with a handsome
vase and bouquet of artificial flowers, both
made by herself. Some who had not earned,
consequently did not receive prizes. All of
the means taken in at the Fair was given to
the children. The President and Counselors
thinking it best to encourage them, thinking
so small a sum would do more good that way
than any other. The President advised the
children to spend their money in getting ma-
terial to make up, so that they would be better
prepared in case of another Fair.
				JULIA A. YOUNG, Secretary.

RICHMOND, Y. L. M. I. A.

	Editor Exponent: A meeting for the re-
organization of our Association, was held on
the 15th of Feb. 1882. Bishop Wm. L. Skid-
more presiding. The following officers were
chosen and set apart: Miss Alice J. Thompson,
President; Mrs. Harriet H. Fisher, first Coun.;
Miss Maggie W. Thompson, second Coun.;
Miss Rhoda L. Merrill, Secretary; Mrs Maggie
C. Hobson, assistant Secretary and Miss Car-
oline Isaacson, Treasurer. We have seventy
names enrolled; and have held about twenty
testimonial meetings. We are holding work-
ing meetings two hours, once a week now.
	We have paid the donations required of us
by the Deseret Hospital Association, since the
notice was received, and will endeavor to do
what is required of us in the future. As sisters
in the Gospel, we are trying to do the best we
can. May the blessings of the Lord attend
your labors.
			I remain your sister.
				MAGGIE C. HOBSON,
							Asst. Sec'y.

SLATERVILLE.

	Dear Editor: The Primary Association of
Slaterville was organized November 15th, 1880.
Bishop John A. Alred, Sisters Jane S. Rich-
ards, Josephine West and several others from
Ogdon were present. Ann Holley was chosen
President, Phebe Singleton and Mary Kasy,
Counselors and Sarah, Stevens Secretary; fifty-
three names enrolled. We hold our meetings
once a week, the children take a great interest
in their meetings. Last winter the measles
made a great deal of sickness among us, and
one of our Primary members, a bright boy of
six years, George E. Knight and his baby
brother died from its effects; and while we
mourn with the bereaved parents, we feel that
death has been here and stolen away a flower
from our midst; but we hope to live so that we
may meet again where death will never part
us from those we love so dearly.
	We held our third conference June 19th.
Bishop John A. Alred and Counselors present.

[Column 2]
E. R. Snow Smith and Zina D. H.
Yonng, Jane S. Richards and several others
were on the stand. The children rendered
their exercises well, and received great credit
for good order and beautiful singing. "Sister
Eliza" speaking in tongues blest them and
Zina D. H. Young gave the interpretation.
It was a day long to be remembered. The
sisters met with the Relief Society in the after-
noon and gave much good instruction, which
I think we shall not forget. The next day,
June 20th, we celebrated the seventy seventh
birthday of our Relief Society President.
There were present about fifty of her children,
grand children, and great grand children and
a number of friends. At 4 o'clock the Primary
children, assembled with musicians to play
the violin; after a recitation and songs an ad-
dress to Sister Field was given in verse, and a
motto presented, bearing these words "No
Cross, No Crown." The children and grown
people then joined in dancing till nearly sun-
down; we then bid her good night in concert,
and left her to the enjoyment of the society of
her family and friends.
	We enclose you the address to President
Field, because it was composed conjointly by
one of our young ladies and one of our Pri-
mary girls. She desires an interest in the
prayers of all faithful saints. We pray for
success to all your endeavors in the advance-
ment of the cause of Zion. The EXPONENT
is ever a welcome visitor with us.
						ANN HOLLEY.
						PHEBE SINGLTON.

FAIR VIEW.

	Editor Exponent: The Relief Society of
Fair View held their fourteenth annual meet-
ing July 14th, 1882. Prest. M. A. Pritchett
presiding. After the usual exercises, reading
of minutes and reports, the officers were pre-
sented and sustained. Good and encouraging
remarks were made by Bros. C. K. Hanson,
Archibald Anderson and others of the breth-
ren. The afternoon was spent in songs, recit-
ations etc., and ended with a picnic. There
was a party given in the evening at which all
enjoyed themselves.
	Our Financial Report for the last year is as
follows: receipts cash, $202.50. Property $103.
68. Wheat, 212 bushels. Disbursed Temple
$99.84. Poor, $20.00. Missionaries, $16.90.
On hand in Coop store, $241.00. Cash $3.75.
Property, $22.56. Cash for factory $133.00.
Wheat, 764 bushels. There has also been
about forty dollars worth of cheese made by
the Society which has mostly been sold for
	wheat.
Wishing success to your valuable paper and
to the good cause, we remain
		Your Sisters in the Gospel.
			MARY A. PRITCHETT, Prest.
			LOIS A. WILSON. Cor. Secy.

EAST BOUNTIFUL.

	Report of Primary Fair held at East Boun-
tiful, July the 11th, 12th and 13th, under the
direction of Mrs. Ann Dustin, President, with
her assistants. Many things were on exhibition
that were useful and ornamental. One pair of
stockings knit by a little girl nine years old.
Two cushions made of velvet and satin, one of
unraveled yarn. One chemise made by a little
girl twelve years old, one quilt made by a little
girl seven years old; three balls of carpet-rags
sewed by a little girl; two quilts pieced by two
girls, ages eleven and thirteen,and a number of
quilts pieced by others; a number of blocks
pieced by very small girls; a number of pieces
of lace; two petticoats nicely embroidered; one
pair of garters knit by a little girl, and em-
broidered pillowslips; a number of wool mats
and home knit curtains; a fine beaded necklace
made by a girl eleven years old; a very pretty

[Column 3]
case of wax flowers; a home-made basket with
specimens from Soda Springs; a nice bunch of
wool flowers; one beautiful case of wool flowers
in a frame; one case worked on velvet; one box
of wool flowers handsomely made by a little
girl; twenty-five tidies; fifteen mottoes beauti-
fully worked; one worked well by a little girl
six years old; quite a number of cornucopias
and hanging baskets; ornamental match boxes;
pictures framed by little girls; a horse and two
cats cut out of cloth by a little girl; some very
fine bread made and baked by a little girl; one
cake nicely made and ornamented; also bottled
fruit, raspberries aad rhubarb; two maps of the
United States by a girl age fourteen years, and
one of the Western States by a girl eight years
old. The boys' department consisted of two
wheel-barrows, one large and one small; a
medium sized rake; a shovel; plow; a cultiv-
ator and one shovel; one knife and fork; one
rolling pin, and potato masher; one map of
South America drawn and painted by a boy
ten years old; hard words spelled and printed
by a boy eight years old; some vegetables
raised by the little boys, also some fruit. The
house was tastefully decorated with ever-greens
and vases of flowers and smoke-tree.
	Sister Porter, President of Centerville Pri-
mary, and Counselor, with a number of Pri-
mary children, came to visit the FAIR, and
President Hatch with her Counselor and some
of their Primary children came to visit us
and we had a very interesting time.
			ANN DUSTIN, President.
			SARAH DAVIS, Asst. Secretary.


ARABI PASHA.
It appears, from an account given by an
Arab lady, as related to a Cairene correspond-
ent, that his name is Ahmed el Arabi, the
latter being “an appellative by which he is
known among his fellows because of his descent
from the Arabs in contradistinction to the
Egyptians.” He was educated to the laws, but
longed for more active life.
“He left the mosque of el-Azharand entered
the army of the Khedive of Egypt. At this
time the nation of the Pranks called the Me-
likans were in war against their black tillers
of the soil, who refused to plow and sow and
plant cotton for their Melikan masters; for
which reason, said Husnah, cotton rose great-
ly in price throughout Egypt, and El-Uraby
grew rich by the cotton raised on his estate
near el-Wijh, which he had received from his
father. Uraby was not greatly favored by the
then Khedive of Egypt, Ismael Pasha. He
did not rise above the rank of a major. His
ambition had led him on three different occa-
sions to endeavor to obtain the rank of bey or
colonel. But Khedive Ismael had replied to
the general advocating the cause of Uraby's
promotion, with the words, ‘If I create him a
colonel, he will create a revolt in the regiment
under his command in less than six months.'
“But the foreordained purposes of God could,
not be defeated, not even by a mighty khedive,
Ismael was deposed by our master the sultan
and soon after Tewfik, his son, came to be ruler
of the Egyptian regions; he bestowed upon
Arabi the rank and title of bey. He is now a
soldier and scholar, learned in the arts of war,
and well grounded in the doctrines of our di-
vine faith. He is beloved of the army as a
bold and fearless warrior, and has the good
wishes of the religious body of law doctors,
for they are sure that he will use his worldly
sword for the honor and glory of God, and to
the great good of the Arab Moslem world,
even as is denoted by his name, Ahmad el-
Uraby; that is, I, praise God, I,the descendant
of the true Arab.”—Ex.


When you give to others, give cheerf[----]
There is no blessing from an unwilling offe[---]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿FROM MESA CITY.

	Our esteemed President, Elder Mc'Donald,
having recently returned from an extended
trip to Utah, our Relief Society extended to
him as a fitting tribute to his worthy labors a
public welcome. A party was given in the
school-house, the room beautifully decorated
for the occasion with handsome pictures, mot-
toes and evergreens. "Welcome," in large letters
was placed at the head of the Hall. An ad-
dress of welcome was given after which the
song "Home Again" was delightfully rendered
by the members of the choir, which was fol-
lowed by several choice pieces of music inter-
spersed with dancing and a short speech by Br.
Bunless and Prest. Mc'Donald. The President
was very much gratified at the kindly feelings
expressed towards himself and family. Thus
passed one of the most pleasant reunions that
has ever been experienced in our prosperous
little settlement on the Mesa.
					S. M. POMEROY.
	August 2. 1882.


﻿THE CAUSE IN KENTUCKY.

	Mrs. Lizzie D. Fyler, writing of the gains
in Kentucky, says:
	At the close of the convention of the Amer-
ican Woman Suffrage Association, at  Louis-
ville, the first society in Kentucky was formed.
Although but a few months old, it has already
become a power for good, as the following bills
which were before the State Legislature will
show.
	1. A property rights bill, giving married
women the right to own real and personal pro-
perty obtained by descent, gift, purchase, or
her own earnings; and to manage, sell, convey
and dispose of the same, by will or otherwise,
to the extent, and in the manner permitted the
husband in property belonging to him. To
give to the wife the same interest in the lands
of the deceased husband that the husband
now has in the lands of the deceased wife, and
permitting a married woman to sue and make
contracts the same as an unmarried woman.
	2. A bill to confer upon the wife equal right
to her infant children's person and property
with the husband.
	3. A bill to anthorize the employment of
women physicians in the Insane Asylum, and
as members of boards of visitors in all charit-
able and penal institutions where women com-
pose part of their inmates.
	4. A bill granting the right to practice law
in the courts of the State, subject to no other
requirements than men.
	5. A bill requiring that women be paid the
same wages as men for the same work in pub-
lic institutions.
	6. A bill conferring upon women the fran-
chise in presidential and municipal affairs.
	That these bills have been well received, and
the property rights bill adopted, adds another
evidence of the truth of the argument that
however kind may be man's intention toward
woman he can never deal justly by her until
she is allowed a voice in making the laws to
which she must submit.
	No one doubts the chivalry of the gentle-
men of Kentucky, and yet upon their statute
books the old barbaric English laws for women
have remained unmodified, until women con-
verted to the new creed of "universal free-
dom," have in the name of justice demanded
that, as representatives of the nineteenth cen-
tury, they should no longer be bound by a
code of laws, cruel and unjust even in the
[----]ess of the sixteenth century which gave
	While we rejoice over the good accomplished
[----] few months by the brave daughters of
[----]cky, we are led back forty years to a


Believe me to be your sister in the Gospel
of Christ.
				SARAH A. FULLMER.
	Castle Dale Emery Co.	Aug. 9 1882.


GLORY AND BEAUTY.

	In addition, to the much quoted phrase, that
order is heaven's first law, by a rough glance
at the trees and flowers, we may conclude that
beauty is also much appreciated there, but
when we examine the latter more closely, and
see how delicately and perfectly they are
formed, and beautifully colored, the fact is
forcibly impressed on our minds.
	It may also be corroborated by perusing
God's instructions to Moses, in reference to the
garments of Aaron and his sons, to be worn
while in the Priest's office. The Lord said,
“and thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron,
thy brother, for glory and for beauty. And
thou shalt speak unto all that are wise hearted,
whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom,
that they may make Aaron's garments to con-
secrate him." Following we find what mater-
ials were to be used viz. gold, blue, purple,
scarlet, and fine linen; afterwards how they
should be made, the ephod was to be made of
all the foregoing materials with 'cunning work'
the breast plate of judgment was to be made
with 'cunning work' and the twelve stones that
were set in it, bearing the names of the Twelve
Tribes were precious and beautiful as the
diamond, emerald, sapphire, agate, amethyst,
etc., and they were to be set in gold. The
chain was to be of pure gold, of wreathen
work. Aaron's coat was to be embroidered,
and the girdle of needle-work, while the bonnets
were to be made "for glory and for beauty."
	In the 31st chap. of Exodus we read, "And
the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, 'See I have
called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, *  *
and I have filled him with the Spirit of God,
in wisdom, and in understanding, and in know-
ledge, and in all manner of workmanship. To
devise cunning works, to work in gold, and in
silver, and in brass. And in cutting of stones,
to set them, and in carving of timber, to work
in all manner of workmanship, * *  * and
in the hearts of all that are wise-hearted I have
put wisdom, that they may make all that I have
commanded thee."
	Thus we see how particular God was to give
the instructions, and qualify men to carry them
out, even to them that were wise-hearted He
gave more wisdom.
	He also gave precise instructions regarding
the Tabernacle the children of Israel built, and
Solomon's Temple. In the age He gave Joseph
Smith directions regarding the Kirtland and
other Temples. The tables containing the ten
commandments were made by God, "and the
writing was the writing of God, graven upon the
tables." From that we must infer that He is
sometimes engaged differently to what the
majority of people believe.  He “planted a
garden” and made coats of skins for Adam and
Eve, and gave the pattern for Noah's ark, thus, 
Parley P. Pratt says, introducing the art of 
ship-building. He also gave many directions
to the Jaredites and the people of Lehi.
	From the foregoing we see, He has been en-
gaged in some of the pursuits in which thous-
ands are employed at the present time.
	Being unchangable He could not deviate
from his admiration of glory and beauty, so,
should not we cultivate in our own, a most
prominent trait of his character and have every
thing connected with his service in accordance
with his will for "Where two or three are
gathered together in my name, there am I in
the midst of them," in short have everything
connected with it executed and arranged "for
glory and for beauty.
					ANN FELLOWS.


A VOICE FROM THE MOUNTAINS.
DEAR EDITOR—Having juat read some of
your valuable papers, and thinking perhaps
you would be interested in the welfare of your
sisters in this far-off country; I take the liberty
of addressing a few lines to you: allow me in
the first place to congratulate you on the able
manner in which the paper is conducted.
 I am truly delighted at the progress my
sisters are making in the great work of the last
days, in the defence of righteousness and true
principles upon the earth.  I am living in a
new country, with no Relief Society, or any of
the Associations for the improvement of the
young, yet we enjoy the Spirit of God, and we
feel one with our more favored sisters. We
are blessed with a healthy climate, with the
pure mountain air to strengthen us; we have
for the most part, a good people who are striv-
ing to live their religion; we have a great work
to do, to combat the evil influences from the
outside element, that are seeking to draw away
our young.  We have a Sunday School that is
doing pretty well, but we need a great deal of
good sound teaching, amongst our children,
hence the necessity of organizations among the
sisters to help along the work of our Heavenly
Father, and help establish more fully the order
of the kingdom of heaven in these waste places
of Zion’s land. We read with much interest
the papers, and are led to exclaim Oh, man,
vain man! that undertakes to measure arms
with God” to circumscribe the path of Deity!
“to stamp out” what God has instituted for the
exaltation of the human family, and for the
advancement of the children of men in the
kingdom of God.  I am a plural wife,  have
lived in that order of marriage for 20 years,
have a family of 12 children, all born under
the patriarchal order of marriage, and feel an
interest in the present contest.  Senator
Calkins in his speech in the house says,“Plura
wives must be forsaken, polygamy must yield.”
What! break up such family ties? Scatter such
families broadcast in the land, children that
have been born under the “stars and stripes”
in a free country; born under the only true
marriage law on the earth, proclaim them out-
casts?  No! the Lord will deal with such men
as dare say  these things, we fear them not.
The Lord sent an angel unto Joseph Smith,
commanding him to inaugurate the patriachal
system of marriage, and who dare say “it shall
be stamped out?” The Lord holds the helm,
and He will allow our enemies to go so far, and
no farther;  they are fighting against God.
He will order all things for the good of his
people inasmuch as they keep his command-
ments, and live up to the light of the Gospel,
the Saints need not fear, only for themselves
lest they should stumble, then let the wicked
proceed with their nefarions work; but let us
look well to ourselves, and keep the spirit of
meekness and prayer, that love and kindness,
and long suffering may abide with us.  Let us
seek unto the Lord for strength and wisdom, to
guide us in the ways of truth and righteousness,
let us as a band of sisters help to sustain our
brethren in the noble work of elevating the
human family, until they shall be fit to enter
into the presence of our God.  Let us do our
duty towards our children as mothers in Israel,
teaching them to honor their God, to honor the
priesthood, to honor the principles under which
they were born, and every principle revealed
for the exaltation of the children of men.  We
are living in the last days, when it will not do
for us to “stand still and see the salvation of
the Lord” but we must put forth our might
and influence to combat the power of the ad-
versary, that is seeking to destroy our children.
Then let us lift up our voices and defend our
religion and the principles of righteousness,
“and freedom to worship God according to
the dictates of our own consciences,"


time when the pioneers in woman's emancip-
ation dared to assert their individuality, and
demanded the rightd of human beings. The
church which had so long held woman in bond-
age, arose in her might and denounced the
new movement as the work of the evil one, and
ordered the brave women who saw a vision,
they saw not, back to their household drudgery,
to ignorance and darkness,  "their God-given
sphere."  A power higher than man's had
called them to a great work, and from that
neither threats nor terrors should drive them.
In forty years how has that work progressed!
Instead of the house-hold drudge, ignorant of
the laws of life and health, we have the wise
and thoughtful mother with her babe clothed
and fed with an enlightened regard for health,
and no longer with a blind devotion to
beauty.
 To these forty years of labor the women of
to-day owe the victories which are so surely
hastening on the time when our beloved coun-
try shall become in truth the "land of the free,"
as it has ever been the "home of the brave.'
-- Woman's Journal.


﻿W O M A N ’ S   E X P O N E N T.


ART DECORATIVE.

	"About no bit of modern decoration is there
such a glamour of romance as that associated
with the silver-mounted drinking-horn, hung
amid mock shields and battle trophies.  Even
in an ordinary dining-room, in spite of incon-
gruous surroundings, it carries one back to the
rude ages when its graceful prototype, jeweled
and banded with metal, and surrounded by
the mighty weapons of the Norman chief, re-
flected from shining faces the glow and life
of the ruddy, leaping flames of banquet torch-
es.  But to come back to the present, there
seems to be a renaissance of horn decoration.
Not only are the antlers of the moose, the
reindeer and caribou in request; but the long,
beautifully curved and glossy horns of the wild
steers of the far West, South America, Italy
and Spain.  the horns of the last two coun-
tries are very long, finely curved, and, like the
American, exquisite in coloring, showing mot-
tlings and cloudings of sea-green fading to
amber; brown melting into pearly grey, which,
in turn, deepens to vivid black at the extreme
tips.  These horns have, from fineness of tex-
ture, a natural gloss,  which enhanced by art,
becomes fine polish.
	"Mounted in pairs, in some cases with the
polished hoof of the steer, which also shows
lovely coloring between the horns, they make
beautiful decorations to hang over dining-room
enterances or mantels.  They should spring
from panels of bronzed metal, or oak dark in
color; a light, modern flowered wall-paper
would form an incongruous setting for su.ch a
decoration, or for the graceful antlers of the
stag.
 “The American steer horns, for their lesser
length, are more suitable for decorations such
as drinking-horns, tankards, powder-flasks and
flower-holders. These can be purchased in
various sizes, ready polished, tipped and furn-
ished with chains to hang by, and at reason-
able prices.  The horns of our domestic steer,
when fine ones can be selected, are capable of
receiving a fine polish.  These and the horns
of the wild Western and Southern steers are
bought up largely for manufacturing purposes,
but may be obtained by ordering from some
wholesale dealer, taxidermist,  naturalist,  or
from an abattoir.  Steer horns being composed
largely of albumen and gelationous substances,
may be easily softened by heat and twined
into various forms,  therefore easily lend-
ing themselves to decoration. Beautiful
cups and tankards may be made from
horns.”—Art Interchange.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Many a rich man makes a poor husband,
and many a poor girl makes the richest wife.--
The Great West.

	Train a child to understand or feel a prin-
ciple and  apply it, not merely to remember 
and obey a rule.--F. B. Perkins.

	"I propose to do all I can for the enlarge-
ment of woman's rights, while I am Governor
of Indiana."--[Governor Porter.

	"Governor St. John, of Kansas, says he hopes
women will soon have the right to vote for
those who are to govern them."

	"I go for all sharing the privileges of the
government who assist in bearing its burdens,
by no means excluding women."--[Abraham 
Lincolon. 

	Mrs. Scott-Siddons is quoted as having said:
"An American servant will tie on her veil in a
natty, graceful way that an English duchess
knows nothing about."

	"A man cannot argue against woman suf-
frage five minutes without repudiating the
principles upon which this government is
founded."--[U. S. Senator Hoar.

	The Quiz, a sprightly weekly published in
Philadelphia, is entirely under the control of
women.   Mrs. Mary Hall it its business mana-
ger and Mrs. Florence O. Duncan editor-in-
chief.

	Governor Baker recently said to the gradu-
ating class of the Indianapolis Female College.
"Young Ladies, prepare yourselves for the
duties of full citizenship because it is in the in-
evitable, whether you desire it or not."--Ex.

	That is not wisdom, it is not piety, it is not
reverence for venerable things, it is stagnation,
it is timidity,  often it it mental indolence,
sometimes it is refines but intense selfishness,
which holds a preacher still in ancient ruts of
ministration, through fear of ministering to
unnatural excitements.  We had better do
some things wrong than to do nothing,--Austin
Phelps.

	The heart will tell its own tale; under some
circumstances the heart will have its own way;
it is useless to tell the heart that no good can
come of this or that--the heart finds good in
unexpected places, and draws honey from
flowers that have not been suspected of bear-
ing honey by any naturalist or herbalist. There
is a time when sorrow becomes sweetness;
such is the mystery and such  graciousness
of life, that loss turns itself into a sort of
gain,—Joseph Parker.
The majority in the House of Lords (132)
who threw out the bill to legalise marriage with
a deceased wife's sister was made up of 8 dukes,
5 marquises, 35 earls, 7 viscounts, 17 bishops
(including the Archbishop of York), and 60
peers who sit as barons.  The minority (128)
included the Prince of Wales, the Duke of
Edinburgh, and the Duke of Albany, 9 dukes,
3 marquises, 29 earls, 8 viscounts, and 76 peers
sitting as barons.  No member of the episcopal
bench supported the bill.  The Archbishop of
Canterbury was among the absentees.  The
dukes who voted for the bill were Hamilton,
Cleveland, Portland, St.  Albans, Sutherland,
Westminster, Roxburghe, Athole, and Leinster,
and the marquises Abergavenny,  Aylesbury,
and Northampton.  The Dukes who opposed
the measure were Buckimgham and Chandos,
Leeds, Marlborough, Norfolk, Northumberland,
Rutland, Buccleuch, and Argyll, and the mar-
quises Bath, Bristol Hertford, Huntly, and
Saltsbury. All the Roman Catholic peers
present declared themselves "not content."


Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
OFFICE IN GODEE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.  Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, Bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the 
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S.P. TEASDEL.

Z.C.M.I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake CIty and vicinty will find the LARGEST and 
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS,  SHOES  &  SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
ob-in the West. Your Orders are Soli---
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN  AND  SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store,
Speical Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE,  THROAT  AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C. 
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, -
Constitution BUlding; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		 Brown Yarns, 	Cotton Batting,
Flannels, 	White Yarns, 		Wool Batting,
Shawls, 		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys, 		Cassimers, 		Washboards,
Jeans, 		Tweeds, 			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 12-
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly resonded to.
Address, David James, Box 300, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, &79 First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the RIghts of the Women of all Nations,
