Vol. 11.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1882.			No. 5.


DREAMING AND WAKING.

Little maiden why that pouting?
	Why that teardrop? Why that sigh?
	Why that struggling? Why that doubting?
	Why the flashing of thine eye?

	Why sad thoughts and [---] fearing, 
		To beset thy youthful heart?
	How amidst a world so cheering,
		Can you live from joy apart?

	Now sweet maiden if thou'rt listening,
		I will give to thee a key,
	That will ope the gates all glistening
		Of a bright futurity.

	Seek thou first, through Father's blessing,
		His pure spirit-to control
	Every impulse of thy being--
		All tho feelings of thy soul.

[---]
	In every word, and act, and feeling,
		Seek for guidance from above,
	For He loves in light revealling
		To bestow on us His love.

	Let [---] thought as well as acting
		Be for good and usefulness;
	Of thyself be most exacting,
		'Twill [---] most happiness.

	[--]il not at others f[-]llings,
		Close thine eyes to others [---];
	For we know not half the w[---]ings[-]
		Hidden [---] life's sacred vaults.

	Mortals see but pride and vaunting,
		Wrongfully our motives mould;
	None but God can know the promptings
		Of the human, wavering soul.

	Be not prone to idle dreaming,
		Building castles in the air,
	Though the walls with stars are gleaming,
		you can never climb the stair.

	For the error in thy building,
		No bright painting can [-]tone;
	It is all a brilliant gilding,
		[-]But without foundation stone!

	If you heed not kindly warning,
		You will taste the bitter woe[-]
	Of awakening some bright morning,
		With your castle fallen low.

	Seek thou then the boon of working,
		Labor bringeth more than gold;
	In thy duties never shirking,
		You will find a joy untold.

	Seek with kind and gentle b[--]ring
		Deeds of comfort to bestow;
	Others' griefs and sorrows sharing,
		Others joys to make and know;

	Be thou faithful, just, unswerving,
		In the path of truth and right;
	God our Father ever serving,
		With a sterling will and might.

	Then you'll feel a joy abounding,
		That no mortal pen may tell,
	All through life the words resounding--
		Father trusting--all is well!

	Gentle maiden, thoughtful standing;
		With the great unknown before,
	New ideas of life expanding--
		Flooding thought and being o'er.

	Take these words of loving greeting,
		And the blessings in[---],
	They are lasting, never [---],
		Keep them o'er in heart and mind[-]
Salt Lake City, May 18th, 1881.                             E.R.S[-]


[Column 1]

A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.

MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

Continued.

	As soon as possible after arriving in a new
and desolate country, such as this was when
we first came here, Mr. and Mrs. Horne, who
have ever been energetic and industrious,
made themselves a nice little home in the 14th
ward of this city, and from that time until the
present have retained the homestead, adding
to the house and improving it, and the grounds,
as circumstances permitted. There their chil-
dren have grown up to manhood and to
womanhood, and others have been born to
them under the same roof. From that home,
sacred to love and duty, sons and daughters
have married and gone out to homes of their
own, and to fill honorable places and positions
in the Church; full of faith and integrity to
the Gospel whose principles they have been
taught in early life, and in the spirit of which
they have been nurtured and reared. Henry,
Joseph and Richard have been called upon
missions to preach the Gospel, and have faith-
fully performed the work. The girls are char-
acteristic for self-reliance, energy of character,
industry and perseverance; Mrs. Horne's chil-
dren have all received a good common educa-
tion and some have excelled in mental attain-
ments. Mrs. Horne is proverbially a true
mother; she has not only taught her children
admirable traits of character, but she has ex-
cellent family government and discipline, and
her children have formed regular habits that
will be of more value than gold or silver with-
out them. Mrs. Horne has not been without
trials in her married life, although she has
perhaps had none of those great changes that
cut deeper into a woman's life than a two-
edged sword. Whatever ordeals she has
passed through have been such as the Gospel
brought, or those which all share in sickness
and death. Plural marriage was to her a
principle of the Gospel given for the elevation
and exaltation of the human family. Her
belief in divine revelation, her great reverence
for every principle taught by the Prophet Jo-
seph, has helped her to receive truth, however
much it came in contact with her own personal
feelings and traditions. In speaking of her
first knowledge of the order of celestial mar-
riage, she says she has had strong testimony
for herself that it is of the Lord. The follow-
ing is from her pen:
	"I felt that it was my husband's duty to
obey this principle, yet I knew it would prove
a great trial to me. I prayed to the Lord con-
tinually that He would give me strength to
bear all things which it was his pleasure to
bring upon me. One night, while my husband
was away on an exploring expedition to the
southern part of Utah, in the winter of 1851,
while I was on my knees praying to the Lord,
a heavenly messenger suddenly appeared at my
bedside. He was clothed in a beautiful white
robe, with a girdle around his waist. I can
never forget the heavenly influence I felt
around me while he spoke to me on the subject
of celestial marriage. He told me that I had
to pass through severe trials and afflictions, but,
said this holy being, 'bear it all patiently; for
it will exalt you, and you will shine brightly
in the kingdom of God.' He then left me. I

[Column 2]

felt perfectly happy and contented the next
day; the house was so full of the holy influ-
ence that this messenger left behind him."
	From this time Mrs. Horne became more
than willing to enter into this holy order of
marriage by giving her husband other wives.
In due time this relation was entered into by
mutual consent of all parties concerned. Mrs.
Horne has borne herself nobly in all the dif-
ferent phases of plural domestic relations and
conditions, and to-day will testify that the ex-
perience gained in this higher school of life,
the necessity of self-sacrifice, is most refining
and elevating in its nature. There are no
nobler women on the face of the earth than
those who live in this order of marriage,
which is condemned by the outside world.
	On the 13th of August another daughter
was born to Mrs. Horne, which she named
Julia Maria. At this time there were more
comforts to be obtained for the sick, and the
circumstances of the Saints were greatly im-
proved, but there is one trial after another for
those who are working out their salvation, and
when Mrs. Horne's babe was only two weeks
old her husband was called on a mission to the
Missouri River to assist in the emigrating of a
company of Latter-day Saints. The wife and
mother, with a little family of six children,
was left entirely alone. Yet notwithstanding
her household cares and a young babe, Mrs.
Horne spent considerable time among the sick
and poor in her own neighborhood. She has
always devoted much time and ability to the
interests of others, giving counsel, attending
upon the sick, comforting the mourner, and in
all those offices of friendship and sisterly love
that are so beautiful in woman. Mr. Horne
returned with the company after a few months'
absence, finding his affairs in as good condition
as though a man had superintended every de-
tail of his business.
	Mrs. Horne had another, a second, pair of
twins born on the 9th of November, 1853; she
named them John Parley and Mary Isabella.
The little girl died with whooping cough at the
age of four months. On the 9th of Decem-
ber, 1855, the third pair of twins were born,
both girls. They were called Pamela Eliza
and Cornelia Harriet. The last two made four
little ones born within two years and one
month. The mother lay hovering between
life and death for several hours after the birth
of these twin daughters, and although she ral-
lied and slowly recovered, it was a long time
before she was able to attend to her household
duties.
	After she had partially recovered, during
the time of her convalescence, her thoughts
were much of heavenly things, and her mind
drawn out in gratitude to God for the preser-
vation of her life, as she was desirous of rear-
ing her family in the fear of the Lord. While
pondering upon the goodness of God upon one
occasion, she was impressed to write her feel-
ings, and gave vent in a sweet and tender little
poem upon the birth of her twins, which might
be appropriately entitled, "A Mother's Wel-
come." Mrs. Horne is inclined to the poetical,
especially in a spiritual sense. She has the
gift of tongues, and often under the inspiration
of the Holy Spirit breaks forth in singing, in
lofty strains of praise and even prophecy;
which, when interpreted, breathe the true spirit
of poesy. Her themes in song are always ex-
alted ones, and partake of the sublime.
	To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SPEECH OF DR. MARIA ZAKRZE-
				WEKA.

AT WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE FESTIVAL, BOSTON.

		WOMAN IN MEDICINE.

	It is now thirty-three years since the first
diploma as  doctor of medicine was given to a
woman, Elizabeth Blackwell having conceived
the idea of competing with men in the care of
the sick as a physician, succeeding after some
years of struggle, in being admitted into a reg-
ular medical college for men, in Geneva, New
York from which she graduated in 1849:
	Through the favor of some prominent phys-
icians, she had opportunity for practical obser-
vation in Europe, and in 1851 she returned
and settled in New York. In 1853 I arrived
in America, having similar views and plans,
and soon became connected with her move-
ment; thus I can claim to be one of the pio-
neer physicians of America.
	Dr. Blackwell's course excited great interest
all over the world, and in Philadelphia a Med-
ical School for Women was started at once;
that is thirty-two years ago. It received aid
cheifly from the Quakers, who also a few years
later started a hospital.
	The New York Infirmary for Indigent
Women was chartered by Dr. Blackwell twen-
ty-nine years ago, and has opened since a good
medical college for women.
	The Chicago Hospital (Medical School for
Women subsequently added) is sixteen years
old.
	The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
opened its doors to women medical students
about ten years ago. In some of the other
States, also, the medical schools now admit
women.
	From America, the movement has extended
to Europe, and the medical schools of the Uni-
versity of Zurich, of Paris, and lately of Lon-
don and of Dublin, graduate women students
on the same terms as men. Thus opportunities
to test the willingness of women to study, and
their capacity for practice in this branch of
science, are increasing everywhere. Still oppo-
sition awaits those engaged in the profession,
both as teachers and practitioners - the pioneer
work is not yet done - and I can only express
the wish that an opposition may continue to
exist for at least sixty years longer.
	It is only by overcoming obstacles, by pene-
trating and removing difficulties, that this re-
form will prove itself to be grounded on a
solid foundation in the very nature of woman,
and will lose its social phenomenal character,
All womankind ought to congratulate them-
selves, that the help given by men has not
been more general;  that what has thus far been
accomplished, has been chiefly done by women
in opposition to men.
	If women shall succeed in holding their po-
sition, as practitioners and scientists, for the
next fifty years, as they have done for the past
thirty-three  years, then it will be proved that
it lies in a woman's nature, just as much as in
a man's to educate whatever faculties, to de-
velop whatever talents she may be endowed
with. For all I demand as the right of woman
is free play for doing what is in her nature to
do; and if she feels she cannot apply herself to
anything else but the study and practice of
medicine, all I ask is plenty of opportunity to
fit herself through education, for that purpose,
and afterwards a chance to try her capacity as
practitioner.
	So far, women have developed well in every
branch of medical science, and compete with
men in general practice, in obstetrics, and in
surgery- We can show you as excellent
women surgeons as there are men surgeons, and
we are beginning to have also good writers as

[Column 2]
well as women scientists, both here in America
and in England.
	Therefore, let us proudly say the women
physicians are among the best practical woman's
rights women. [Applause.]


MODERN ELECTRICITY.

	We read in the morning papers of Tuesday
the telegraphic news that "Admiral Semour
opened fire upon the forts at Alexandria at 9
o'clock this morning," which, calculating the
difference in time, was actually put to press by
every morning paper in every city in this
country in two hours after the bombardment
commenced.
	The transmission of the first message over
the wires between Baltimore and Washington
was an achievement so wonderful that it was
heralded around the globe. The laying of the
first cable across the Atlantic, in 1858, laughed
at and derided by wise men as impracticable
and impossible, was accomplished. And after
our Chief Magistrate and the Queen of Eng-
land had exchanged congratulations over the
great achievement, the cable parted, and there
were sad faces, and croakers said, "I told you
so." But those who were engaged in the en-
terprise did not lose courage; the broken ends
were recovered from the ocean's bed and re-
united, and, to-day, the laying of a cable across
the oceans and the seas excites a simple news-
paper paragraph of a dozen lines. Now the
whole habitable globe is linked together by a
network of wires; revolutionizing trade, com-
merce, exchange and all our methods of doing
business. Instead of waiting nine or ten
months for an answer to the letter to our cor-
respondent in Calcutta, we converse with him
almost as easy as with the customers in our
stores and countingrooms.
	Webster, in that magnificent passage descrip-
tive of the power of England, said, "A power
which has dotted over the surface of the whole
globe with her possessions and military ports,
whose morning drumbeat following the sun and
keeping company with the hours, circles the
earth with one continuous and unbroken strain
of the martial airs of England."
	Not only does her "drumbeat follow the sun
and keep company with the hours," but, to-
day, the long roll that calls her battalions to
the field on the plains of India, or her sailors
to their guns before the forts of Alexandria,
has hardly ceased before its vibrations are
heard the world around, and every newspaper
in the land heralds on its bulletins the details
of the fight before the smoke of battle has
passed away. And all this has been accom-
plished in less than a quarter of a century, ac-
tually within a single decade from the laying
of the first cable. Who will venture to pre-
dict what the next twenty-five years shall re-
veal in the application of this wonderful, mys-
terious, unseen and incomprehensible power?—J.
C. P., in The Watchman, Boston.


A girl who can put a square patch on a pair
of pantaloons may not be so accomplished as
one who can work on a green worsted dog on a
yellow ground, but she is of more real value in
the community.
What a blessing to the household is a merry,
cheerful woman- one whose spirits are not af-
fected by wet days and little disappointments,
and whose milk of human kindness does not
sour in the sunshine of human prosperity.
Such a woman, in the darkest hours, brightens
the house like a piece of sunshiny weather.
The children go to school with a sense of some-
thing great to be achieved; husband goes out
into, the world in a conqueror's spirit. No mat-
ter how he is annoyed abroad, at home he is
sure to find rest.


NOTES AND NEWS.
Iowa and Kansas are doing good and effec-
tive work for the enfranchisement of woman.
"Woman suffrage work in Nebraska has
awakened such a positive interest in all parts
of the State that it looks as though they 
would succeed in giving to woman equal politi-
cal rights.
A mass meeting of woman suffragists of
Ohio will be held in the Murphy Tabernacle,
Third Street, Columbus, O., on Wednesday,
August 2d, for the purpose of organizing the
Woman Suffrage Association of Ohio, which
is auxiliary to the American.
A husband advertised in the Sheffield "Daily
Telegraph," England, that he, Thomas A---, 
would no longer be answerable for the debts
incurred by his wife. The wife retorted: "This
is to certify that I, Elizabeth A----, am able
to pay my own depts, now that I have got shut
of Tommy."
It is said that Queen Victoria at Balmoral
recieves about fourty telegrams in a day. She
sits up until one o' clock in the morning,
reading them and writing, and at eight
o'clock resumes her daily duties. The Queen
is never idle; her example for industry might
well be imitated by those in the ordinary walks
of life. 
Victor Hugo has a daughter, Adele, in a pri-
vate insane asylum near Paris. She is about
50 years old and is said to resemble the por-
trait of Madame Hugo, by Johnnot. She is
very proud of her father's fame, and repeats his
poems from memory. The story of her misfor-
tune is, she married a young naval officer with-
out the consent of her father; he deserted her
and left her penniless and without proof of the
legality of her marriage.
Women should understand that no beauty
has any charms but the inward one of the
mind, and that a gracefulness in the manners
is much more engaging than that of their per-
sons; that meekness and modesty are the true
and lasting ornaments; for she that has these is
qualified as she ought to be for the manage-
ment of a family, for the education of her chil-
dren, for an affection for her husband, and
submitting to a prudent way of living. These
only are the charms that render wives amiable,
and give them the best title to respect.
In his lecture recently delievered in New
York, in connection with the silk exhibition,
Mr. Herman Rocke pointed out the possibilites
of silk culture in this country. Before the lec-
ture the guests visited the tables covered with
silk worms in all stages of life, from the egg to
the butterfly, while a Japanese boy was reeling
off the silk from the cocoon, and the weaving
process was going on at the loom. Since the
opening of the exhibition there has been added
a large number of the various kinds of worms,
and the hall has been decorated with Japanese
pictures representing the silk culture in that
country. The object of the exhibition, the lec-
turer said, was to show what could be done in
silk culture in this country. The vast sums of
money leaving this country could all be kept
here. There were mulberry trees enough that
would give food to the worms sufficently to
produce all the silk needed. It was easy work,
the speaker added, for the children to take
part in, by feeding and watching over the
worms. He said that France was able, in a 
large degree, to pay her great dept incurred in
the Fran co-Prussian war, through the part the
children took in the silk culture. In conclu-
sion, he predicted a large growth in silkworm
culture and silk manufacturing in this country
within a few years. - Scranton Republican.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TOO LATE.

She lay in her lonely coffin, 
	With her wasted fingers pressed
Over the fair, full roses,
	They had placed upon her breast;
And the head that ached no longer,
	And the pitiful haggard face.
They had pillowed with gleaming satin, 
 	Had shaded with costly lace.
Then I said—and my heart was heavy, 
	Recalling her life forlorn—
"Let none lay a rose on my bosom
	Who have planted my life with thorn!"

They mourned her in softest whispers,
	They moved with a reverent tread;
Who never had loved the living, 
	So honored they the dead. 
"What glamour vailed your senses!
	O cheated heart!" I cried;
"Come back and claim largess of love
	From the mourners at your side!"
Then I said, and my heart grew bitter,
	Remember her loveless life.
"Let none say 'peace to my ashes'
	Who filled my days with strife!"

What! when dust returns to dust, 
	When the soul goes back to God, 
When pain, nor delight nor passion
	Is felt by this earthly clod—
Is that a time for tears,
	For pity, for charity,
When life has been bitter and lonelyl
	And love was a hollow lie?
Once it had been like manna, 
	All that her spirit craved;
Had sated her hungry longing—
	Once it had helped and saved.
But now, when no gentle ministries
	Her pulesless heart can move, 
Come not with fond caresses—
	Oh, mock not the dead with love!

For I know when her soul was starving, 
	These, in their righteous pride,
Like the arrogant Priest and Levite, 
	Passed by on the other side;
But when the toll of the death bell
	Smote on their startled ears, 
The hypocrites wails of anguish
	Outnumbered the true heart's tears.
Alas! if the tender kindness
	Spent on the coffined dead,
Were lavished upon them living, 
	How sweetly their lives had sped!

		JUNE L., in "Woman's Journal."


"A FEW MORE FACTS."
			-------
	All intelligent people will agree with Scrip-
ture that it is but fair to judge a tree by its
fruits.  Now I claim that polygamy brings
forth fruit of the very choicest kind.  I was
born and reared in this order, and am peculi-
arly proud of my parentage; would not ex-
change with the daughters of Queen Victoria.
Most writers on this subject claim that poly-
gamy must in time yield to higher civilization.
How very absurd to be sure.  Did not our pa-
rents come from the very heart of civilization.
but a very few years ago?  And are they not
among the noblest and most intelligent of the
world?  And did not this order of marriage
shock and astonish them quite as much as the
Christian world now profess to be shocked?
Certainly, and it came in contact with their
tradition, education, and every selfish feeling of
their natures.  And more, they were compelled
to endure the scorn of the world, and of their
nearest and dearest friends.  But did they insti-
tute it?  Did they seek it?  Did they desire it?
No, of course not.  Common sense will answer
that question.  God, our Creator, positively
commanded it; and what could they do?  The
trial was so great that many would have pre-
ferred death, and would no doubt never have
received it had not God in His mercy shown it
to them individually by His power, for He
knew the honesty of their hearts in doubting, 
and had respect unto their integrity.  A great
many felt like this:  We know it was practiced
by the ancient saints; but, oh! do not require
this sacrifice of us.  But God strengthened
them, and made them understand His glorious
purpose in establishing it; how He could by
this holy order people the world with a right-
eous seed and purify and improve the present
state of mankind; and how, through this chan-
nel, those waiting in the spirit land might be
brought forth, and population need not de-
crease as the world would have it, but increase
on a grand scale through virtuous and God-
fearing parents; for none but the highly-intel-
ligent and noble-minded can make a success of
plural marriage.  It requires firmness, piety,
faith, hope and charity to a very great degree;
and when they talk about degrading, I wonder
and smile at their ignorance, and totally fail to
see one degrading feature in it.  Why, it is the
very essence of purity. 
	Now I will let you take a peep into my
neighbor's affairs, that is, the polygamic ones.
Here is Mrs. W. on my right; she is the second
wife, has a lovely and comofortable home, and
a large fine family of ten, ranging from two to
twenty-three in age; also one belonging to ano-
ther wife (deceased), which she has reared as
her own.  They are truly a happy family, and
a very good lot of boys and girls. The first
wife comes frequently to visit them, and I have
often witnessed their meeting, unobserved; 'tis
a hearty kiss and clasp of the hand, and all
the children flock around for the affectionate
greeting they are sure to get from "Auntie."
She has told me she always sent for her when
sickness came among them, "for she is such a
good nurse, you know, and so kind."  I called
Sunday afternoon, and was delightfully enter-
tained with sweet music and singing by the
older girls.  All except the two youngest at-
tend school, and are in every way loved and
cherished by a kind father, and almost the
same as two good mothers.  The first wife has
also a very nice family.
	Here is Mrs. S. on my left; she is plural
wife; has a family of twelve, four of them be-
long to a former wife who died.  She is such a 
pleasant, good woman, and does not appear
very miserable, I am sure; on the contrary, I 
don't know of a happier woman.  She has a
most lovely home, her lawn and gardens would
command the admiration of any one.  Her
family are taught strict economy and industry,
as is the case with most of us, else how could
we subsist in the barren country, especially
where there are so many in family.  These are
the kind of boys and girls who will bless any
community and adorn society anywhere.
	Now, I am one of a family of thirty chil-
dren; was reared with my brothers and sisters
under the kind care of a most affectionate
father and loving and intelligent mothers.  We
were taught it was wrong to utter one impure
word.  We were called around in a family
circle to sacred prayer every morning and
evening.  We love each other as dearly as own
brothers and sisters.  My brothers, ten in
number, are large, fine-looking, noble men, an
honor to their father and a pride to their
mothers, and strictly temperate, not one excep-
tion.  The girls are also average and make
excellent mothers, and one and all to-day advo-
cate plural marriage after all this "dreadful
experience."  Strange, isn't it?  Well, this is
some of the fruits of polygamy, and I might
cite to many more facts of the same kind, but
will conclude by stating my unflinching belief
that this, the kingdom of God, will soon tri-
umph over every other, and "woe, woe to all
who will not humble themselves" and receive
and obey the simple but glorious plan of salva-
tion and eternal life, ere it is too late.
							CHARITY.


TESTIMONY OF MARGARET WEST.

IN PRESENCE OF JESSE N. SMITH, SAMUEL H.
ROGERS, SMITH D. ROGERS AND OTHERS.

We were living in Nauvoo when I first
heard that it was right for men to have two 
wives. I never thought then of their having 
more than two; it looked an awful thing to
me, and I said that I would not believe it was
right, if an angel from heaven should tell me
so, And agian, I said that if I should hear
the Almightly tell an engle to come and tell
me it was right, I would not believe it. I knew
very well what I thought. I thought it would
only be to try my virtue, as Abraham's faith
was tried, when he was told to offer his son as a
sacrifice, and I thought the Lord would love me
better if I refused to believe in such a heinous
thing, for the Lord loves virtuous women.
	I was very busy at that time, for we were
preparing to go to the wilderness (that was
what we called it then). I do not think I had
at that time heard of the valleys of the moun-
tains, but we termed it going to the wilderness.
My daughters and I were very busy, parching 
corn, stewing squash for drying, and weaving
cloth. In all my preparations I did not have
time to go round and get the news of the day,
but Sister Thompson and Sister Carmichael
used to come and tell me what the folks were
talking about, and who of the brethren had
taken another wife. I told them not be be-
lieve a word of it for I knew the authorities
of the Church would put it down. They would
say, "You may look out, for your husband is
sure to get another." Sister Carmichael said,
"If it is so, I know William (her husband) will
take another wife, for he will do anything the
authorities tell him is right." "But," she ad-
ded, "I will go down and talk with Sister Mur-
ray about it." Sister Murray was Bro. Young's
sister. In a few days she came again, having 
in the meantime seen Sister Murray, and asked
if it was true that the brethren were taking
more wives,  to which Sister Murray had replied
that it was too true. When I heard this, I 
was perplexed; I didn not have much to say. I 
felt very serious over it, and made it a matter
of prayer.
	On the Sunday morning following, after my
husband and I were ready to go to meeting, we 
walked out through our gate, and he said, "Let
us call in at John's (his brother's); perhaps 
some of them will go to the meeting." As we
passed through the gate, all creation was
opened in vision to my view, as it seemed to me;
we were as the grass of the field. I can see
now how it looked as it ran off in the distance.
Then I saw plurality of wives, the celestial or-
der of marriage, open to my view, and knew it 
was right, and a virtuous principle, and per-
taining to the everlasting Gospel of Jesus.
Then I saw the authorities of the Church, and
what they had suffered to establish this peculiar
doctrine. It was a grand point in the Gospel,
and had to be established in this generation;
there was no getting around it, it had to come
forth. When I saw the labors of the brethren,
and their toils and sufferings, my heart was
pained for them, and I loved and pitied them.
I was no longer an opposer of  these things, but
pondered them in my heart. I realized the
beauty and glory and exaltation connected
with this heavenly principle; it was grand and
glorious, and I felt rapt in joy. I repented
of my former unbelief, and went forth and was
baptized for the remission of my sins in that
respect, though at that time I did not confess
to any person what the sin was, for the remis-
sion of which I was baptized.


It is not calling your neighbors' names that
settles a question.- Disrael.﻿


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Emmeline B. Wells,  -  -	Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, S3. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, Lower West Hoorn ol the Council
House, 8onth Temple Street. Business hours from
0 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to 
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY,  AUGUST 1, 1882.


﻿DESERET HOSPITAL.
The dedication services of the Deseret Hospi-
tal were held at the building on Fifth East
Street, in this city, Monday, July 17th, at
11 o’clock a.m. Of the First Presidency of
the Church John Taylor and Joseph F. Smith,
were present, also President Wilford Woodruff
and Apostle F. D. Richards. Presidency of
Salt Lake Stake, Angus M. Cannon and Joseph
E. Taylor, Mayor of the city, Wm. Jennings,
Elders C. W. Penrose, L. John Nuttall, and
Joseph Horne. The President and officers of
the institution, also physicians in charge, mat-
ron and others. Dr. Seymour B. Young read
the programme of the services. Professor C. J.
Thomas had charge of the music. Prayer by
President Woodruff, and after singing and prayer
Dr. Young read the circular and appeal.
	President John Taylor said his sympathies
were extended to the ladies in their labors of
love for the establishment of this hospital,
where the sick of the Lord’s people could be at-
tended and have the benefit of the ordinances
of the Church as well as skilful treatment.
Accidents were numerous in these troublous
times and sickness prevalent. It was right that
we should have a place where the sick could be
efficiently tended. Several of the ladies pres-
ent had acquired a knowledge of those princi-
ples which were needful in proper attention to
the sick, which he was pleased to recognize, for
it was in accord with our religion to acquire all
useful information to deal with disease, and
physicians should not be bound by rigid rules,
but act as directed by the Lord, because there
were so many phases of the same diseases and
so much difference in the constitutions of man-
kind. At the same time we were commanded
of the Lord to “seek out of the best books words
of wisdom,” and to seek knowledge by learning.
Yet we must not forget to call in the aid of
faith, but while we acquire all the intelligence
possible to be attained, at the same time we must
exercise faith that the blessings of the Lord
might be upon our efforts. The officers of the
Association and all connected with it, had his
best wishes, and he felt that they would have
the blessing and favor of God. They should not
neglect to avail themselves of all possible sour-
ces of knowledge, but seek for it in every direc-
tion. He closed by blessing the officers, physi-
cians and attendants, and all connected with
the hospital.
	President Joseph F. Smith endorsed the re-
marks of President Taylor. This was a step
quite necessary to be taken. It was in the in-
-terest of the afflicted and the poor. He would
have been pleased if the institution could have
been started in a better place. It was but a
small beginning,  yet it was better than none at
all, and he expressed the hope that success
would attend it, and that perfect union, har-
mony and good feeling would prevail among all
who had the conduct of its affairs, so that the
good spirit of the Lord might be with them,
and that while they exercised all the skill that
was possible, they might be so sensitive to the
whisperings of the spirit of the Lord that they
would be able to obtain the power of God for the
benefit of the sick, and that they might be
guided in the channel of the best success. He
believed that the Latter-day Saints, had the
right to obtain the blessing and direction of the
Lord In all their affairs, and especially in such
labors as those for the benefit of the afflicted;
He invoked the blessing of the Lord upon the
efforts of the institution, its officers and all who
should receive the benefits thereof.
	Apostle F. D. Richards offered the dedicatory
prayer,
	President W. Woodruff coincided with what
had been said, and congratulated the sisters
upon the progress of another labor of love con-
nected with the Relief Society. That society,
like other features of the Church and Kingdom
of God, was organized to stay. He endorsed
with all his heart the principles enunciated of
looking to the Lord. We needed salvation.
Men’s ideas of medicine changed materially.
The course of practice pursued when he was a
boy would not be followed now. He related inci-
dents in illustrations of this, and showed the
necessity of the guidance of the Almighty in
the treatment of the sick. he was thankful
that we would now have a place for the treat-
ment of the afflicted, where the Elders could
walk in and freely administer the ordinance for
the healing of the sick, and he felt that this
institution would grow and increase and ac-
complish the purpose desired.
	President Angus M. Cannon was gratified
that the Sisters had been led to take the course
which had resulted in the establishment of this
hospital. They had been very faithful in their
efforts in that Relief Society which was estab-
lished by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Here was
a place where the afflicted of the Lord’s people
could be watched over in a proper way and
could be administered to by the good Samari-
tans. God had set His hand to establish Zion
in its beauty and power, and he felt that this
beginning would be looked back to as the germ
of something much greater, which would re-
flect credit upon all engaged in it. He trusted
that some extensive grounds would soon be ob-
tained. He related an incident in his experi-
ence, showing the necessity and blesssing of
reliance upon the Lord for healing of the sick.
he hoped the Institution would be sustained by
the faith and means of the people. 
	Mayor Wm. Jennings considered that this
hospital was needed in this Territory. The
Elders had done a good work. We had become
a large community, and people of all classes
were among us, also many who were afflicted
from various causes. In some of the isolated
places of the Territory there was lack of medi-
cal skill, and here was a place to which cases
might be brought for treatment which they
could not obtain where they lived. Here the
sick could be treated in a way that they could
not be among persons not of our faith. He
hoped the ladies would keep in view, as he be-
lieved they would, the fact that this hospital
was not for speculation but for relief. He hoped
this building would prove large enough for many
years to come. It would have his support, both
by his means and faith.
	Elder C. W. Penrose said there was no need
for any remarks from him concerning the objects
of this institution nor the benefits to follow from
it; these had been well set forth by those
speakers who had preceded him. He would say,
however, that the institution had his sympathy
and support, and he believed it would be suc-
cussful. Some persons might wonder why Lat-
ter-day Saints who believed in healing by faith,
needed a hospital. He showed that faith and
science were not incompatible. That, according
to the revelations of God, knowledge was to be
obtained by study and also by faith; so with the
treatment of the sick; the means ordained of
God as remedies should be used and at the same
time faith be exercised. They who had suffi-
cient faith could be healed by faith. They who
had not faith were to be nourished and treated
with proper remedies, and these, it was written,
should be used with “prudence and thanksgiv-
ing,” with judgment and skill, but "not by the
hand of an enemy.” Therefore skill should be
acquired by study. Women had always been
recognized as good nurses, but only of recent
date as skilled physicians and surgeons. He was
glad at the progress of public opinion. He con-
gratulated the ladies on the good work they had
accomplished.
 The next in order was the setting apart of the
physicians and matron by President John Tay-
lor, and Joseph F. Smith and others. Dr. Ellen
B. Ferguson was blest and set apart by Prest.
Taylor, Dr. Romania B. Pratt, President Smith
officiating. Mary E. Greene Van Schoonhoven
Dispensary clerk by President Woodruff. Mary
Ann McLean, Matron, by Apostle F. D.
Richards. Benediction was pronounced by
Counselor Joseph E. Taylor.
	Mayor Jennings manifested his interest in
this benevolent institution by handing over to
the President a check for five hundred dollars.
There is every prospect of success in this humane
and much  needed enterprise if the brethren and
sisters respond to the appeal. It requires a great
exertion on the part of those engaged in this
work to establish an institution of this kind by
donation. There is everything needed, and any
donation of furniture, bedding, household uten-
sils, crockery, cutlery, etc., will be gratefully
received. It is hoped that the sisters in the dif.
ferent Stakes of Zion will feel it a pleasure and a
duty to become members of the Hospital Associa-
tion, and have their names enrolled with those
more actively engaged in this good and noble
work for the suffering and distressed.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
The quarterly conference of the Relief Society,
Salt Lake Stake, convened in the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, June 16, Counselor Elmina S.
Taylor, presiding, in the absence of Sister Home
who was unable to attend. After usual exer-
cises, minutes of previous Conference were read
and accepted, and twenty-three branches of the
R. S. were reported, by the Presidents, or one
of the Counselors; after which Mrs. E. S. Tay-
lor made some appropriate remarks. Singing
and benediction and Conference adjourned until
2 o’clock p.m.
	Afternoon Session: After preliminary exer-
cises, speeches were made by Sisters E. S. Tay-
lor and P. L. Kimball, on the duties of women
and the privileges of the Gospel. Dr. Elvira S.
Barney was the next speaker. She gave a most
interesting account of her experiences during
her three years, absence in the East studying
medicine and surgery, said it made her heart
ache to see the condition the world was in. She
had sought diligently to prepare herself for use-
fulness in the profession she had chosen, and
was rejoiced to be at home once more among
the Saints. 
 Dr Romania B. Pratt spoke of her few
months' absence in the East and her great joy
in returning home again; that Utah was the
dearest place on earth to her, alluded to the
great divines of the day and their preaching,
said she could realize they had not the light of
the Gospel. she went to hear Henry War


Beecher and spoke of the absurd ideas he
taught and his ignorance of the true light.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp spoke upon faith and
washing and anointing of the sick; appreciated
the remarks of Dr. Pratt, as she had been placed
in similar circumstances herself.
Mrs. S. M. Kimball made a few suggestive
remarks and expressed her pleasuse in having
today physicians among our own people.
Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, in addressing the con-
gregation, spoko earnestly In reference to the
Deseret Hospital, which was being established
by the Latter-day Saints, and appealed to these
present to take an interest in this benevolent
work. She also spoke of the benefit of the
washings and anointings for the sick.
	President Wilford Woodruff spoke very en-
couraging to the sisters, both in regard to the
duties and responsibilities which necessarily
 devolve upon them and also of the adminlstra-
tion to the sick and afflicted. Referred to the
Deseret Hospital and the work of benevolence
and charity expected of the Relief Society.
Spoke of the union of man and woman in all
things and how necessary it was they should
co-operate together; the influence of mothers,
the training of children, the work for the dead
and many other interesting themes.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor then presented the subject
of the Hospital in a very earnest and effective
manner. Urged the sisters to become members
by paying one dollar annually and have their
names enrolled with those engaged in this noble
work.
	Mrs. M. A. Freeze announced that the Con-
ference of Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A., would be
held next day June 17, in the Assembly Hall.
Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
lng, “The Spirit of God, etc." Benediction by
President Woodruff.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WORK.
	Last Monday morning, while I was making
my toilet, I was thinking over a very beautiful
ceremony which I had witnessed the day be-
fore.  It was all fresh in my memory then, and
I wanted so much to sit down and write it all
out. But the duties of the day were before me,
the domestic duties of a wife and mother on
Monday and I had to content myself with look-
ing wistfully towards my pen, and then turn
my thoughts upon other topics.
	It occurred to my mind, that if the thousands
of wives and mothers who have rare and beauti-
ful thoughts which they would love to embody
and put on paper, but to whom the opportuni-
ties of so doing never come, should once do,
what I then thought of doing--all shut them-
selves up away from the household, away from
their outer cares and preplexitites, and commence
writing--what a shock business generally would
sustain.  I laid this thought aside also, and
went quietly about my work; remembering
that I was no longer a girl at home, with a
loving, indulgent mother and generous older sis-
ters to look after and do the work if I neglect it.
	However willing and efficient the person or
persons may be who are paid for their services
about the house, the care and responsibilities of
domestic concerns being kept in order, must rest
upon the wife and mother, if she will be faith-
ful to her calling in all things. And sometimes
they will rest heavily and feel burdensome, no
matter how hard she may try to believe that
labors of love are always sweet and light.
	But let no young woman imagine the state of
continued maidenhood preferable to taking upon
herself the important mission of a true help-
mate to man, which the great Father designed
her to fill.  Be it far from me to encourage any
such fallacy.


What if wives must work? So must every
one else; except some who shirk their real por-
tions in life, and who will be pretty sure to fall
short of their expectations in the day of rewards.
We must eat. We must be clothed. Washing
and ironing must be done for us all; and we
must work and should enjoy it, generally. And
when we have duties to perform which do not
exactly accord with our frame of mind at the
time, we must perform them with as good grace
as possible, and try to be satisfied.
	We who are constantly striving to prepare for
the great future as well as to provide for the
present, who strive to live not only for our own
good, but for the good of our fellowbeings, and
the glory of our Creator, have double or triple
work to do. And in all, we must not forget nor
neglect the practical part.
	At this season of the year, we must remem-
ber and be on hand for our wheat gathering and
storing away for future need. In this work, the
older members of our Primary Associations, if
properly encouraged and instructed, might ren-
der great assistance. They could raise beans
too, with much profit.				LULA.


A SAD EVENT.

"There is no flock, however watched and tended,
	But one dead lamb is there!
There is no fireside, howsoe'er defended,
	But has one vacant chair."

	Died in Salt Lake City, at the residence of
Major W. W. Woods, at five minutes to five
Sunday afternoon, July 23, 1882, Leslie Alma
Dunford, aged 10 years, 2 months, and 23 days.
Deceased was the son of Mrs. Woods by a former
marriage, and was born in this city April 30,
1872. He was the grandson of Bishop Newel
K. Whitney (deceased) and of Mrs. E. B. Wells.
He was a bright, active and interesting boy,
manly in his bearing and most tender and affec-
tionate in his disposition. He was spiritual in
his nature, loved to hear of heaven and the Sa-
vior, and was fondly attached to his relatives,
to whom he was ever obedient, respectful and
obliging, ready to render any little service in his
power. His death was the result of an accident
with a toy pistol, with which he was slightly
wounded in the hand on the 4th of July last.
The most careful attention was given to the
wound, which appeared to be doing well, and he
showed no symptoms of the terrible affliction
until about twelve days after the accident, when
he was attacked with lockjaw and paralysis. The
little fellow suffered inexpressible agony day
and night for a week. He was brave, patient
and uncomplaining, never murmuring even
in the most extreme pain. His mother was
constantly at his bedside, watchful and hopeful
until a short time before his death. The shock
was a severe one to her and to his little sisters,
and to all his relatives, for he was tenderly be-
loved. But he has gone where there is no more
pain, nor sorrow, nor suffering forevermore;
where the flowers he so loved and appreciated will
bloom eternally in the gardens of paradise, and
music, in which he found the greatest delight,
will fill his soul with melody and joy unspeaka-
ble. We know that he has passed from death
unto life and we should not call him back, yet
our poor human hearts will bleed for a time at
his absence, for as the poet says:

"That loss is common would not make
My own less bitter, rather more;
Too common! Never morning wore
To evening, but some heart did break."


HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN the article entitled "Faith, Medicine and
the Doctor," Galius should have read Galen.


For good and sufficient reasons, we decline
for the present publishing notices of surprise
parties.
Several Primary Fairs, worthy of mention,
are not noticed in this issue, but reports will be
given in due time.
Since the publication of the Circulars of the
Deseret Hospital Association, Dr. Romania B.
Pratt has been added to the Executlve Board.
The officers of the Association have been inde-
fatigable in their labors in inaugurating this
institution.
On the 7th of August a grand concert will be
given in the large Tabernacle in this city for the
benefit of the Deseret.Hospital. The building
will be illuminnted with electric lights. The
musicians and performers all render their ser-
vices free for this important, benevolent enter-
prise, and it is ardently hoped by all those most
actively engaged in this charitable work, that
the concert will receive the patronage of the
general public. If as much means can be ob-
tained in this way as is gathered every year by
a circus In this city, the committe and all parties
Interested will consider It a grand success. Come
everybody and bring your children and friends.
Admission, twenty-five cents; reserved seats, 
fifty cents.
 MRS. R. W. Tyler writes from Beaver: “I
for one cannot express my appreciation of those
noble, good, blessed women who have stepped
forward in that much needed institution, a Hos-
pital May they live long to bless suffering hu-
manity, may their purses never be empty, and
may the gift of healing abide in that institution
established under the auspices of those mothers
in Israel. May the dews of heaven descend up-
on it, until all that come under its roof shall feel
its benign influence. My heart and my soul is
with you all in this noble work.”


A YOUNG LADY DOCTOR.

	Martha Paul Hughes, M. D., returned on
Thursday evening, July 20, from an absence of
about four years in the east, where she has been
pursuing the studies of medicine, surgery and
the sciences; thus preparing herself for a life of
eminent usefulness. Miss Hughes, better known
as Mattie Paul, left Salt Lake In September,
1878, and entered the Michigan University at
Ann Arbor. At the end of two years she gradu-
ated as M. D., and received her diploma.
She made friends among the college students,
who were willing to lend her their influence and
assistance in the practice of her profession. She
made good use of her time during vacation, and
by that means earned money to enter the State
University of Pennsylvania, from which she
graduated as a Bachelor of Science, the only
lady in the graduating class. Miss Hughes also
excelled in the National School of Elocution and
Oratory in Philadelphia, and graduated with
honors. She has prepared herself for a lecturer
and for literary work as a medical journalist, and
will undoubtedly make a success of whatever
she undertakes, if diligence, perseverance and
good natural ability will accomplish it. Miss
Hughes is a bright, intelligent, energetic and
industrious young woman. She has already
surmounted obstacles that would have daunted
many older and more experienced, proving that
she is endowed with courage to battle with and
overcome the difficulties that ever line the path
to honor and to fame. We bid the young Doctor
a warm welcome home, and trust she will use
the talents with which she is so richly endowed,
and the knowledge she has gained, for the alle-
viation of suffering and distress, and in so doing
find happiness and content.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Y. L. M. I. A. STAKE REPORTS. 
The Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement As-
sociations in all the several Stakes of Zion are
hereby earnestly requested to prepare and send
in a complete report to the Secretary of the cen-
tral board in good time, that the Territorial re-
port In full, may be handed in to the President's
Office ten days previous to the October Confer-
ence. As there has never yet been a report from
all the Stakes, it seems positively necessary to
male this official call.
ELMINA S. TAYLOR, Pres't 
LOUIE WELLS, Secretary, 
Central Board Y. L. M. I. A.


A MOTHER IN ISRAEL.
	Inasmuch as our Heavenly Father has seen
fit to take from our midst our honored mother
and sister, Margaret West, aged 77 years, who 
departed this life June 19th, 1882 after a suffer-
ing illness of four months, caused from dropsy,
we, the embers of the Snowflake Relief Society,
desire to show our appreciation and love for her, 
by sending the following resolutions of respect
to our paper, and also a copy to the R. S. of
Parowan, Iron County, Utah, where she was a 
faithful resident for twenty-seven years.
	Resolved, that we hold in sacred memory her
many virtues, both in precept and example:
such as strictly keeping the Word of Wisdom
since the year 1834, her firm integrity to the
principle of Celestial Marriage, even to the last, 
when she wiled the greater part of her property
to a plural wife rather than to her lawful heirs;
her many years of usefulness among the sick,
etc.
	Also that we strive to imitate her meekness
and patience, benevolence and uncomplaining
disposition, her economy and cheerfulness, her
wisdom, in being a woman of but few words,
and her devotedness to her God and his people. 
	She was the mother of ten children, and fifty-
six grand children, and forty-nine great grand
children, for whose sake she left ehr comfortable
home, December 3, 1878, journeying in the dead
of winter, to this new land, counting it only a 
pleasure trip. 
	During life her greatest delight was in the
tillage of the soil, and upon her coffin was placed
a sheaf of ripe wheat, encircled by a sickle, with 
the words, "She hath borne the cross, and will
wear the crown."
					WILLMIRTH EAST,
					LOIS PRATT HUNT.
					ANNA M. ROGERS,
					ELLEN LARSON,
					LUCY H. FLAKE,
					IDA F. HUNT.
	Snowflake, Apache County, Arizona, July
13th, 1882.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
			REPORTS.

			WASATCH.

	The Relief Society Conference of the Was-
atch Stake of Zion convened on Friday, May
12th, 1882, in the Social Hall, Heber City, at
half-past 10 o'clock a.m., President Emma
Brown presiding. Present on the stand were
President Hatch, Bishops Thomas Rasband
and Wm. Forman, Elder John Jordan and a
few other brethren.
 Choir sang, Prayer by Elder John Jordan.
Choir sang. Minutes of the previous confer-
ence were read and accepted.
	Sister Brown made a few opening remarks,
and read from the Exponent an address given
by the Prophet Joseph to the Sisters of the
Relief Society in Nauvoo.
The following wards were then represented:
Sister Forman gave a report of the Relief
Society of the West Ward, Heber City. Sister
Cluff, speaking of Center Ward meetings, spoke
very highly.  Sister Taylor reported the Charles-
ton Ward.
 Bishop Thomas Rasband, President Abram
Hatch and Sister Brown each made pleasing
and instructive remarks.
The choir sang and conference adjourned till
August 11th, 1882.
Benediction by President Abram Hatch.
					ELLEN LEE, CLERK.

		NORTH OGDEN PRIMARY.
	Report of a Primary Conference, held at
North Ogden, June 7th, 1882:
Present on the stand: Eliza R. Snow Smith,
Jane S. Richards, Louie B. Felt, Josephine R.
West and others; President M. A. Wallace
presiding.
Singing, "In our Lovely Deseret." Prayer.
Singing, "We thank thee, O God, for a pro-
phet."
A poem of welcome to E. R. Snow Smith
and ladies was repeated in concert by the As-
sociation.
Minutes of the last conference were read and
approved.
 The programme was rendered, as follows:
Dialogue, "Going to Meeting," Harriet Barker
and Annie M. Storey; recitation, Orderly
Habits," Rose Brown; song, "Birdies of the
Greenwood," Ida M. Alvord and Emily Bai-
ley; recitation, Joseph Smith's First Prayer,"
Mary A. Reynolds; recitation, "We come,"
Margaret Holmes; recitation, "The Angel of
Death," Eliza A. Chadwick; dialogue, "Kind-
ness," Thomas and William Richards; song by
three girls, "The Try Company;" recitation,
"No Sects in Heaven," Elizabeth Richards;
song, "My Little Blue Apron to Fill," Nellie
Richards; recitation, "Be in Earnest," Wilson 
rose; the fourth chapter of the Bible Ques-
tions and Answers were repeated in concert by
the Association; recitation, "Lines Inscribed to
E. R. Snow," Francis Wharton; dialogue,
"Great Lives," by six boys and six girls; song,
"The Good Boy's Resolve," Wm. S. Wallace.
President Wallace made a few remarks.
Sister E. R. Snow Smith said she was happy
in meeting with the children of North Ogden;
thanked them for the welcome which they had
given her on her arrival, and made other inter-
esting remarks.
Sister Louie B. Felt, Joesphine R. West
and Jane S. Richards gave some very good ad-
vice, encouraged the children to come to their
meetings, and spoke about prayer.
Bro. Wm. S. Stowel made some excellent 
remarks.
Conference was adjourned (for three months.
Singing, "Lord grant that we in wisdom's
ways." Benediction.
		E. C. WALLACE, Secretary.
			MARY STOREY, Assistant Sec'y.

	FOUNTAIN GREEN PRIMARY.
	Yesterday was a grand gala day here for
both young and old; the occasion being the
first Primary Fair held in this place. All were
out in full force and beaming smiles. The Fair
was held in Fountain Green Social Hall, which
was freely tendered for the event.
There was a large display of articles that
were both useful and beautiful.
Confectionery.--Pies, tarts and cakes of all
descriptions. A plate of frosted pasties, by
Miss N. Holman, aged eleven, was very good;
as was also a pound of butter by Miss Rozilla
Crowther, same age.
 On the next table was a very creditable dis-
play of Knitted Goods. A pair of baby shoes,
by Miss Clara Collard, aged 11; a knitted
shawl, Miss Christine Smith, aged 12; a com-
forter of the same material, Hannah Skeen,
aged 12; a pair of hose, Miss M. Adams, aged
12, and fancy open work hose, Miss Annie
Neilson, aged 15.
 The next table or stand was devoted to
Plain Sewing, by hand. Amongst the articles
of merit was an apron, by Miss Annie Turkle-
son, aged 12, and a large variety of patchwork;
quilts and blocks, some the work of very tiny
hands. Samples by Miss E. J. Curtis, aged 5,
and several other little toddlers, about the
same age.
 Crochet Work.--A large assortment was
put forward for inspection and criticism, con-
sisting of tidies and lace of every description.
Those that deserve honorable mention in this
branch are Maria Jacobson, aged 11, Rozilla
Crowther, same age, and Miss A. Neilson, aged
15.
Sampler Work and Designs in Woll and
Zaphyr,-- on beholding which, carried us back
to the days of yore, when our mothers used to
amuse themselves in the same kind of fancy
work, Some of the designs were neat and
tasteful. The Ten Commandments, by Miss
Ada Guyman, aged 14, was a very fair speci-
men. A sample worked by Miss Annie Tur-
kleson, aged 12, was also very good.
Embroidery.-- In this department, the Misses
Caroline Otterson and S. E. Collard, aged re-
spectively 12 and 15, displayed not only good
taste, but originality of design, combined with
excellent workmanship. Hearth-rugs, ingeni-
ously contrived and put together in good taste
and style; they were made by Misses Stena
Jacobson and S. A. Aldread, aged 8 and 12.
Zephyr Flowers.-- A very large display of
wool flowers, of all hues, shapes and sizes;
some in baskets, vases and cases; all were
beautiful and well made. The little folks that
made them may well feel proud of this their
first effort.
Hair Work.-- Miss Eliza Bischoff's exhibit
was really very good.
Boys' Handiwork.-- I cannot begin to enu-
merate them, there was such a large display.
There were models of easy running wagons,
harrows of all shapes and sizes, ladders,
shovels, grindstones, and specimens of ama-
teur printing. The grindstone, by Master
Lewis Woodward, aged 12, was a very good
model. A well made square harrow, by Mas-
ter Tom Oldroyd, aged 13; model for violin, by
J. F. Wakefield, aged 10, and a whole host of
clever contrivances by the boys.
	The committee of arrangements were Mes-
dames Hannah Collard, Laura Morgan, Mary
Ann Anderson, Catherine Sorensen, Maria
Christiansen, Maria Bischoff, Jane Crowther
and Mary Guyman, assisted by Aunt Polly
Johnson, Aunt Jane Woodward and Mrs. Mer-
cie Ivry.
		Miss Annie Anderson, Secretary.
		Miss. S. E. Collard, Assistant Secy'

		VERNON PRIMARY.
	The second annual meeting of the Primary
Association of Vernon was held on the 15th of
June, 1882. We are only a small association
and too far away to unite with other wards, yet
to encourage and interest the little ones, it had
been arranged that they have a little Fair.
The childrem met at the school-house at mid-
day and partook of a bounteous dinner pro-
vided by the parents, many of whome were pre-
sent. Upwards of one hundred joined in this
exercise. After dinner the children's offerings
were placed on exhibition. All were very
pleasantly surprised to see the variety, taste
and ingenuity displayed, for though we number
but fourty-four members, we counted thirty-nine
articles on exhibition.


The afternoon was spent, after the usual ex-
ercises, in songs, dialogues, recitations, ques-
tions on different subjects, etc., etc. The Presi-
dent of the Primary Association of St. Johns,
Tooele County, and from a ward of Spring-
ville, Utah County, were present. Both spoke
very encouragingly to the children, pronounc-
ing their little efferts as quite equal to those of
Associations in other wards.
	After spending two hours in dancing, the
children were dismissed by singing "Our Own
Sunday School." Benediction by one of the
little boys.
	Financial report, beginning June 15th, 1881,
ending June 15th, 1882:
	Names enrolled, 44; average attendance, 20;
meetings during the year, 32; amount in trea-
sury from last year, $3.55; received during the
year, $7.15; total, $10.70. Disbursed to the
Salt Lake Temple, $6.50; books, $1.50; in
treasury, $2.70.
			ESTHER A. BENNION, President.
			MARY A. HICKENSON, Secretary.

MESA CITY.

	Perhaps but few are aware that we have a
Relief Society organization in this isolated
country, as but very few reports have ever been
sent from Mesa City. Our first conference was
held March 11th, and a report was prepared
and sent by our secretary, but for some reason
it never appeared in the EXPONENT. We have
quite a number of names enrolled as members, 
but have not accomplished much financially,
in consequence of but few seeming to take an 
interest in the success of our society; this
makes it rather discouraging for those who
want to be workers in the hive. But out of the
books we shall be judged. We have made a
few quilts, but in a country like this, where
the thermometer runs up to 115 degrees, the
making of bedquilts is rather an unprofitable
business. We are also making a very nice
quilt, which we design as a Temple donation,
and although there are but a few of us, we can
see that we are improving both spiritually and
temporally.
	We have a good, faithful President, who en-
deavors to perform her duties faithfully, and is
well beloved by the Society.
	We are not so highly favored as our sisters
in Utah, in having the presence, frequently, of
those true and noble sisters, Eliza R. and
Sister Zina, with their zealous co-
workers, who seem to be spending their lives
in the great and glorious work, which has been
allotted to them to show woman her true and
proper sphere in the great work of the last
days, and may the blessing of high heaven at-
tend them in their labors; and rest assured, if
any of them should ever visit this country,they
would meet with a warm welcome (perhaps
rather too warm, unless they came in the win-
ter). The EXPONENT helps to supply this
want in a great measure. We can read ac-
counts of their glorious meetings and almost
imagine ourselves there; therefore it is always
a welcome visitor. 
	Everybody enjoys this climate when they
once get accustomed to it. We have about 10
months of the most agreeable climate in the
world, to balance against about two months of
very warm weather, and even then we fre-
quently have nice cool afternoon breezes,
which serve to help us out admirably. It is a
very healthy country, which is saying a great
deal in its favor. There is not a case of sick-
ness on the Mesa, that I am aware of. 
	Ever praying for the success of the EXPO-
NENT, I remain your sincere friend,
					SARAH M. POMEROY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 39


An evil speaker differs from an evil doere
only in the want of opportunity.--Quintilia


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect on the death of Anina
Phister, member of the 3rd Ward Primary As-
sociation of Logan City:
	As God, in His wisdom, has seen fit to call
another of His precious jewels, and as she has
labored faithfully in the performance of every
duty, we, as members of the Primary Associa-
tion, unanimously adopt the following resolu-
tions:
	First—We sincerely condole with her guar-
dians, her brothers and her sister,in this their
heavy bereavement, and we tender them our
heartfelt sympathy.
	Second—May her many virtues be emulated
by the members of our Association, so that her
noble example may stimulate others to a life of
virtue.

Farewell, Anina, we shall miss you,
But you have only gone to rest,
From all troubles and all labors,
With your parents you’ll be blest.

	Resolved, That we adopt these resolutions as
a token of respect and appreciation of her
sterling qualities, and that a copy of them be
forwarded to her guardians, and also to the
Logan Leader and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		SARAH G TARBET, President.
		ELEANOR C. COWLEY,	} Counselors.
		MARY A. TARBET,		}


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.
	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	With all the false traditions in which we
were born, and in consequence of the degener-
ate tide with which the human family have
been drifting for generations past, and as the
Lord had no organized Priesthood on the earth,
it is not to be wondered at that in our ignor-
ance of His ways the feelings of our natures
should rebel against the doctrine of a plurality
of wives. I remember how I felt, but which
would be a difficult matter to describe—the
various thoughts, fears and temptations that
flashed through my mind when the principle
was first introduced to me by my father, who
one morning in the summer of 1843, without
any preliminaries, asked me if I would believe
him if he told me that it was right for married
men to take other wives, can be better ima-
gined than told; but suffice it to say the first
impulse was anger, for I thought he had, only
said it to test my virtue as I had heard that
tales of this kind had been published by such
characters  as the Higbees, Foster and Bennett,
but which I supposed were without any foun-
dation. My sensibilities were painfully touched.
I felt such a sense of personal injury and dis-
pleasure; for to mention such a thing to me I
thought altogether unworthy of my father,
and as quick as he spoke, I replied to him,
short and emphatically, No, I wouldn’t! I had
always been taught to believe it a heinous
crime, improper and unnatural, and I indig-
nantly resented it. This was the first time that
I ever openly manifested anger towards him;
but I was somewhat surprised at his counten-
ance, as he seemed rather pleased than other-
wise. Then he commenced talking seriously,
and reasoned and explained the principle, and
why it was again to be established upon the
earth, etc., but did not tell me then that any
one had yet practiced it, but left me to reflect
upon it for the next twenty-four hours, during
which time I was filled with various and con-
flicting ideas. I was sceptical-one minute
believed, then doubted. I thought of the love
and tenderness that he felt for his only, daugh-
ter, and I knew that he would not cast her
off, and this was the only convincing proof
that I had of its being right. I knew that he
loved me too well to teach me anything that
was not strictly pure virtuous and exalting in
its tendencies; and no one else could have in-
fluenced me at that time or brought me to ac-
cept of a doctrine so utterly repugnant and so
contrary to all of our former ideas and tradi-
tions. This was just previous to his starting
upon his last mission but one to the Eastern
States. Fearing that I might hear it from a
wrong source, knowing, as he did, that there
were those who would run before they were
sent, and some would not hesitate to deceive
and betray him and the brethren, he thought it
best that I should hear it from his own lips.
	The next day the Prophet called at our
house, and I sat with my father and mother
and heard him teach the principle and explain
it more fully, and I believed it, but I had no
proofs only his and my father's testimony. I
thought that sufficient, and did not deem it ne-
cessary to seek for any further, but had I been
differently situated like many were without a
father and a mother to love and counsel me,
probably my dependence, like theirs, would
have been on the Lord, but I leaned not upon
His arm. My father was my teacher and reve-
lator, and I saw no necessity then for further
testimony; but in after years the Lord, in His
far-seeing and infinite mercy, suffered me to
pass through the rough waves of experience,
and in sorrow and affliction, I learned,
this most important lesson, that in
Him alone must I trust, and not in weak and
and sinful man; and that it was absolutely ne-
cessary for each one to obtain a living witness
and testimony for him or herself, and not for
another, to the truth of this latter-day work, to
be able to stand, and that like Saul, we “must
suffer for His name’s sake.” Then I learned
that “The fear of the Lord is the beginning of
knowledge;” and that “He is nigh unto all
those that call upon Him in truth, and healeth
the broken in heart and bindeth up their
wounds.”
	In a few days from this, my father started
for the Eastern States. My baby brother had
been very sick and was barely convalescent
when he left.
	He wrote me from Pittsburg, that was more
than forty years ago; and though his letters
are now worn and yellow with age, and the
fingers that wrote them are laid under the cold
and senseless turf, yet the sublime truths,
though taught in simple words, will never per-
ish, no, never; and often as I read them, I drop
a silent tear and am led to say:
	“I owe thee much. Thou hast deserved from me
	Far, far beyond what I can ever pay.”
	Here is a copy of the letter written me from
Pittsburg, July 10th, 1843:
	“My Dear Helen.—I still remember what I
told you when I left home, that I would write
you. You have been on my mind much since
I left home, and also your dear mother, who
has the first place in my heart, then my dear
children and brethren and sisters who have
passed through much sorrow and pain for the
cause of Christ.
	“My dear daughter, what shall I say to you?
I will tell you, learn to be meek and gentle,
and let your heart seek after wisdom, and al-
ways speak kindly to your dear mother and
listen to her counsel while you have her with
you, for there is no one that feels the care for
you that she does.  My child, remember the
care that your dear father and mother have for
your welfare in this life, that all may be done
well, and that in view of eternal worlds, for
that will depend upon what we do here, and
how we do it; for all things are sacred. God
knows my heart and how I feel for my dear
family. My prayer is that he will incline our
hearts to serve him all the days that we shall
live on the earth and our children after us
through all eternity, that none of them may


[Column 1]
ever swerve from these fixed principles of vir-
tue and to be endowed with the wisdom of God,
and to be kind and merciful to all the human
family, as far as mercy can have any claim on
the souls of men; so let our love abound. As
we measure to the human family, so it must be
crowned upon our heads, either in time or in
eternity. It is always time to do good, and as
to wrath we will measure that out as God shall
direct, and not as we will, for God says, 'Ven-
geance is mine, and I will repay.'
	"Let us seek to be true to our integrity,
wherever we shall make vows or covenants with
each other; then we have got in that narrow
way that leads to eternal life. Now let us be
careful that we do not make a breach, but let
us learn by the things that we see others suffer,
and not have to pass through them ourselves.
You have some experience, and you see others
walking through trouble and sorrow, because
those who have covenanted to be their friends
have betrayed them; for instance, look and see
what the Prophet has to pass through. This
comes upon him because of the treachery of
some who have promised to be his friends and
the friends of God. We should have no trou-
ble if it were not for such persons. They make
league with our enemies, Judas like.
	"Oh, God, save me and my posterity from
treachery, and let our hearts be filled with true
integrity and benevolence to the human family;
if we have ever varied from these principles,
forgive and give us light to walk into the light,
as thou, oh, God, art in the light. Our hearts
are known unto thee, and we desire to continue
in thee, as the branch cannot bring forth fruit
except it abide in the vine, no more can we, ex-
cept we abide in thee. Save us from our ene-
mies, and let us live long and do much good,
and see thy work prosper and spread forth on
the right and on the left, and see our enemies
fall and come to naught. Now, Father, I ask
these things in the name of Jesus Christ.
Amen.
	"I have written as it has come to me. I
think this is the first that I have written to
you. I hope it may not be the last. I hope
we shall live to see many good days, and be a 
comfort to those of our kindred who have not
yet come to the light of the Gospel as we have.
I have a longing desire to live many years and
live that life that becomes a man of my profes-
sion, which is an apostle. I hope that I may
live in honor of this title, that it may be
handed down with delight by my posterity
which shall follow me. Now, my dear Helen,pray
for your dear father, that he may have strength
to fight the fight of faith and win the prize and
come off with honor in the sight of God, angels
and men.
	"Now, Helen, study to be a comfort to all
who are connected to us by the ties of nature,
and also to those who have received the Gospel
of Christ. Be a pattern of good works, and
let your locks go down with honor. Envy no
one, though they may think they are far above
you. Now, listen with care and be meek, and
no good thing shall be withheld either in time
or in eternity, and you shall shine forth as the
sun at noon day. Seek to be a comfort to your
parents, brothers and sisters, and to your
friends and connections, and all who love our
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Probably I
have said enough upon this subject at this
time.
	"My health was tolerably good till I got to
Cincinnati, then I had symptoms of chills.	*
*	*	I was introduced to a very respect-
able family by the name of Baker, who were
Baptists. They were very kind to me and my
brethren. There was an English lady living
with them as a governess to their daughters, in-
structing them in education and taught them
to play on the piano.
	"While I was there, she was taken sick and
lay nigh unto death. She told me she could

[Column 2]
not live, but told Mrs. Baker that she would
like to have me pray for her. I did as she had
requested, and went back to my room, where
I found Elder Pratt. In about twenty minutes,
she came to our door and said she was well.
She left the house and went around telling the
people what had been done. After I had gone
to bed, I was called up by Mr. Baker, as his
daughter was very sick. I laid hands upon her
and she was healed and went to sleep. She
was well in the morning, and they were all be-
lieving. I baptized Mr. Baker and his daugh-
ter before I left.
	"We reached this place on the first day of
July. I was taken with influenza. It
seemed to me I could not endure it, my lungs
were so bad; have not seen one well day since
I came here. Elder Snow took it while on the
boat, Elder Pratt also.
	"Last night I was taken with the cholera
morbus. It seemed to me as though I could
not live till morning. There were three breth-
ren with me a good part of the night..	*	*
*	If you will examine the papers, you will
find that this complaint is raging through the
East. Elder Page is sick with it. There have
been five baptized. They are a good people
here. I think we shall leave this week for
Philadelphia.	*	*	*	We are very
sorry that Elder B. Young does not come on.
	"We have had some hints that Brother Jo-
seph is taken with another writ. I wish that I
could know.	*	*	*	I expect that
I shall find a letter at Philadelphia and get
the news.
	"I received a letter from your mother by
Phineas, and was glad to get it. I have read
it until it is almost worn out. Will write to
her in a few days; have not been able to write
before for some time; my head was so dizzy
and I felt very poorly. I wrote one to Wil-
liam, and hope that he has received it. Tell
your mother to write without fail.	*	*
*	I hope to soon hear from poor William.
How I long to hear from my dear family, for I
love them with a perfect love, and there is no
other thing that could induce me to leave
them but the cause of Christ. That is all to
us, for it is our meat and our drink to do the
will of the Father in heaven.
	"Now my dear child, be humble, and pray
for your dear parents, that they may have
strength to win their way through with honor
and integrity before God, angels and men; that
we may be crowned together in the eternal
worlds, where we shall never part, where pain
and sorrow and grief shall not be known;
where we can enjoy the society of our dear
children and friends throughout all eternities.
	"Now, Helen, kiss your dear mother for me,
and tell her to kiss the dear little babe for me.
I can hardly think of him without weeping. I
received the little lock of hair she sent me
and carry it in my pocket.	*	*	*
Give my love to Bishop Whitney and family,
and to Sarah Noon. Tell her to be of good
cheer, and also Brother and Sister Billings,
and all that inquire for me.
	"If you should see President Smith,give my
kindest love to him. I hope that he is not in
the hands of his enemies; if so, God will deliver
him.	*	*	*
	"My everlasting love to your dear mother
and the children.
	"As ever, your dear father in Christ to his
daughter in Christ,
	"HEBER C. KIMBALL."


40 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Never part without loving words to think of
during your absence. It may be that you will
not meet again in life.—Richter.

	Lost patience is never found again. You
may be patient next time, but the spoken word
cannot be called back—not with prayers and
tears.


Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO’S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEA SDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linsey,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans, 		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
