Vol. 11.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1883.			No. 20.


ADDRESSED
To Mrs. E.R. Snow Smith:
	In a quiet spot ’neath a cedar tree,
	Is a little grave very dear to me;
	A darling, my baby, lies buried there,
	Safe from temptation, and free from care.
	To-day is his birthday and yours, dear friend,
	And tenderest greeting to you I send;
	A sweet, sacred tie it seemeth to be,—
	That grave, this birthday, 'tween you and me.
	
	In his life’s early dawn he passed away,—
	Your life has been one long busy day;
	Why, wherefore, no mortal tongue can tell;
	God willed it so, He doth all things well.
	Time hath chastened my grief for the absent one
	In submission I say, Thy will be done.
	Dear friend upon this day,
	This milestone on thy way
	I've stopped awhile, ’midst work and care;
	Your history to read. Its pages fair
	Abound in noble deeds,
	From morn, through noon, still busy sowing seeds
	Of good, which will, and do bring forth 
	A harvest rich of love and faith.
	Methinks I hear recording angels say:
	"Another year of noble work to-day;”
	
	Could I but near you stand,
	See your face, clasp your hand,
	And say: “God bless her,—bless this, her birthday,
	And may it bring her happiness alway:”
	My heart would thrill with joy
	God grant we meet where bliss hath no alloy.
	A crown awaits you there, angels will sing
	Their sweetest song for your glad welcoming;
	For many souls can now more hopeful be
	Of heaven, for your faithful ministry.
	
	And I, in daily life
	As woman, mother, wife,
	Will set my standard high, as you have done,
	And nobly, truly work, till victory's won
	You have not lived in vain,
	Your life hath given joy, and lessened sin and pain.
	Your light doth shine brightly afar,
	Leading Jesus, as did the star
	Of Bethlehem. Faithful work, and noble aim!
	All womankind may love and bless your name.

	Accept this tribute of respect and love;
	We may not meet on earth, we'll meet above,
	That little grave shall as an altar be
	For prayer, and incense to your memory.
	When flowers bloom thereon, their fragrant breath
	Will tell of joy and heaven–after death;
	That winter's cold, like worldly strife,
	Is but the preface of a brighter life.
	And when the year goes round and brings this day,
	Beside that grave I'll think of you alway
						EMILY SCOTT.
Ohio, Jan. 21, 1883.


ANSWERED.

DEAR MRS. EMILY SCOTT:
	The grave—where'er that grave may be,
	Which forms a link 'twixt you and me,
	Will burst asunder and resign
	Its trust.
	Whose arms will then entwine
	The precious darling baby who
	Has been, and is, so dear to you?

		All things above and all below,
	Are bound by law; it being so,
	A law of God requires of you
	An act performed—a work to do,
	By which, for true affections aim,
	You may secure a legal claim,
	That you may clasp that baby dear,
	And into perfect stature rear


Its little form, in purity,
And glorious immortality,
Stern death will sever every tie
That is not based above the sky.

	Dear lady, I now testify
God has revealed a law whereby
The dearest of all earthly ties,
We may securely legalize;
To have—to hold—to enjoy forever,
Beyond the power of death to sever.

	Sec to it lady—'tis of more
Intrinsic wealth than golden ore—
Comprising more true, real worth
Than all the precious things of earth
Which perish with their use—'tis more
Of value than all worldly lore.

	Thanks for the kindly feelings you express:
My heart reciprocates with friendliness.
Methinks I see you sitting by that grave,
Absorbed in thought as deep as ocean's wave.
While there alone enrapt'd in reverie,
How strange that you, a stranger, thought of me!
Yet, if the curtains of the past were drawn,
And we our pre-existence gazed upon,
Perhaps life's contest fully might explain
We once were friends, and now are friends again.

	Important movements have head quarters where
The greater gifts and privileges are.
Here are the Temples of the living God—
From here His mighty work goes forth abroad.
Then leave that grave: angels will guard its sleep
While you secure the right that ba[--] to keep:
Prepare 'neath holy Temple roofs to tread,
And labor for the living, and the dead.
	Changes rush on—unique events appear—
We may clasp hands, and bless each other here.
						E. R. SNOW SMITH.
Salt Lake City, Feb. 1883.


THE CULTIVATION OF MIND.

	The thought that our actions here will either
enhance or retard our happiness in the next
world should be ever present with us. As
we progress in any branch of learning, our
preceptions are quickened or cultivated in re-
gard to it, as for instance in music; any triv-
ial mistake that would pass unnoticed by
others would excite our notice and offend the
ear, so with our moral preceptions. Quarrel-
ing and bloodshed, which seemingly delight
some gross natures, would make exceedingly
unhappy more feeling and sensitive beings.
	Virtuous actions are not always rewarded in
this life, as may be seen by reading the lives of
Phocion and Socrates; such lives serve to
remind base, despicable persons of their own
shortcomings, and appeal too strongly to their
better feelings, but instead of standing as
guides to a better life, often rekindle envy
and jealousy and the desire to pull down every
thing to their own mean standard, and these
are only two noble lives among the many
which have been taken or made miserable
through constantly walking in the narrow
path.
	Because the higher qualities often prove dis-
advantageous in this world, probably most
affecting the amassing of riches, it is no reason
why they will not, with knowledge, lead to
eternal bliss in the next, and as we are there
sure to meet sooner or later, those we have
benefited or wronged here, it is easy to perceive
that our heaven there will be in accordance
with our deeds done here.
	What happiness would we have in this life
without friends, and how is the tie of friend-


ship made but by kindred feelings based on
confidence, and as that could not exist between
conniving unscrupulous parties there could be
no friendship.
	From all the instructions given us relating
to our preparing for the next world, the cul-
tivation of the mind certainly takes the first
place, as through its enlightenment we are
prepared to receive or reject baptism and
other doctrines, and it is also certainly that
which prompts us to pure or vicious actions.
It can be cultivated in any direction.
	Prejudice is a "noxious weed" which should
not be allowed to grow, as it often overrules
our reason in the face of facts; this is often
the case in relation to the Book of Mormon,
for though no fault can be found with its
contents, many are prejudiced too much
against it to even read it.
	The following from the Millennial Star I
have often read with pleasure.
	"The Mind.—The Almighty gives mind,
man can only give example and education.
The natural minds in men are like the natural
fields in agriculture. There is every degree of
fertility, but they will all grow noxious weeds
unless cultivated and cared for."
							ANN FELLOWS.


SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER, THE
MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
AND PATRIARCH.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	When Horace returned to Nauvoo he found
that a year or more had wrought great changes,
not only by the death of Joseph and Hyrum,
but other dear friends had passed away—num-
bers were married and others had grown up
till he could hardly recognize them, and
among the most noticeable was myself, which
fact his looks and words expressed the first
morning after his return, as he called to give
us, among other old neighbors, a friendly shake
of the hand. I was not yet sixteen, and
though the feeling between us then could not
rationally be called love, it was something
akin to it, admiration—which only needed
time and acquaintance to mature. I was con-
siderably tinctured with romance and enter-
tained the bright hope that I had already ex-
perienced my most bitter portion of the reali-
ties of life. His mother and sister were
pleased with the idea of our union, and the
latter had early expressed herself to that ef-
fect. Not very long after this Sarah and I
accompanied him and my brother William
across the prairie to Carthage, to see the jail
where Joseph and Hyrum had been murdered.
William and I had often passed through that
little town on the way to Ramus, to visit at
the brothers Perkins; but never before under
like circumstances or with such peculiar sen-
sations. The wife of the jailor very kindly
showed us up stairs. The walls of the room
had been whitewashed and the floor had been
scoured many times, but the stains of blood
were still quite visible, and we saw a number
of bullet holes in the door. We looked into
the cell, into which Willard Richards had
dragged Elder John Taylor after he was
wounded and covered him up, hoping that he
would be overlooked and his life spared to tell
the tale; not expecting that he himself would
ever escape alive.


[Column 1]
	﻿As we stood by the well-curb where Joseph
fell, Horace picked up a small chip covered
with blood, and which he still has in his pos-
session, though the blood is hardly discerni-
ble—nearly thirty-nine years having elapsed
since that awful tragedy was enacted, and
seemingly sanctioned by our nation, under
this grand Constitution which we had learned
from our earliest childhood to love and revere.
And no heed was paid to the wailing cries of
the bereaved, nor the solemn prayers of an
oppressed, weak and defenceless people, but
they were driven out with the supposition and
the hope that they would perish from destitu-
tion, cold and hunger.
	I copy the following incidents from my
father's journal. "May 28th, 1845. This
day the timbers were raising in the attic story
of the Temple, on the dome or steeple.
	"May 29th. Spent a short time at Bishop
Whitney's—had a good time talking of the
order of salvation.	*	*	In the evening met
with my brethren at Willard Richard's office.
*	*	We called on the Lord for rain, and for
the brethren upon the islands of the sea, for
those who had gone west, for the sick, and for
union. Great union prevailed.
	"May 30th. Sister Sarah M. Kimball came
and took myself and wife in her buggy.	*	*
I got out at Warsaw street. Went to General
Charles C. Rich's.	*	*	Then to Elder
John Taylor's, where I found the Twelve.
*	*	William Smith was dissatisfied, other-
wise the Twelve were one. Took dinner with
Elder Taylor. Mother Smith came into our
council at 2 o'clock to express her feelings be-
fore the Twelve—called us her children. The
feelings of the Twelve were expressed by our
President towards the families of the Smiths—
that we would do all that we could for them.
	"Sunday, June 1st. I went to the stand
*	*	Meeting was opened. I was called
upon to speak.	*	*	Spoke one half hour.
John Taylor followed, then President Brigham
Young spoke for some time. There was much
joy among the Saints, as we had not been on
the stand before for three weeks—had been
obliged to hide up. In the evening met at
Elder Richard's for prayer—prayed for rain,
had a good time and broke up at half past
one in the morning."
	That day was my mother's 39th birthday,
which my father mentions in his journal. The
2nd day of June he speaks of five of the
Seventies coming to dig his cellar, and says:
"We had a fine shower in answer to prayer.
We praised the Lord for His great goodness.
2nd day. Began to lay stone in my cellar.
*	*	The day pleasant—all peace and har-
mony in our city."
	About two years previous to this, a brick
addition was made to our log house. The log
part was now torn down and a two story one
of brick built in its place. Father had pur-
chased a good house and lot adjoining ours of
Brother John Tibbits, and presented it to my
brother William. The chamber of it we oc-
cupied until the upper part of ours was fin-
ished and painted, containing a parlor, two
bedrooms and a clothes-press to each, with
hall. The largest room, with exception of the
parlor, was mine, with two large windows, one
opened to the south and the other east,
towards the Temple. The rooms on the base-
ment were very similar. The hall passed east
and west, front, door opening towards the river,
and over it was a large stone on which my
father had his name engraven. This was the
first nice house that he had been able to build
us, his time having been previously engaged in
the Father's vineyard with his brethren, the
Apostles, and then, much of the time they
were obliged to keep themselves hidden or
disguised to escape writs being served on them.
They had to adopt different disguises,
which were sometimes very droll and ludicrous,

[Column 2]
and which afforded us no little amount of fun
and amusement. The last year spent in Nau-
voo, though it was not all gladness and delight,
was the liveliest, and I took more real pleasure,
and can look back to it and my associations
there as the brightest and happiest that I ever
experienced in that city. "Pleasures are bright-
est as they take their flight."
	I was a passionate lover of music, and had
so longed for the privilege of learning to play
the piano, and this I enjoyed during the sum-
mer of 1845. I had an accomplished lady
teacher who had received the Gospel in Lon-
don. My first lessons were given me on a
small piano standing in a milliner shop, which
was owned by the Miss Grays, then living on
Main Street. One of them is now Mrs. Rumel,
who has a large millinery establishment on
Main Street in this city. My teacher would
often praise my aptness in learning, and say
to me, "You will go ahead of me, Miss Helen,
for you have a voice to sing, which I never
had." President Brigham Young had a small
piano and invited me to come to his house
and practice with his daughter Vilate, who,
though younger than myself, had had previous
advantages, but was rather indifferent, and he
thought if I practiced with her she would take
a greater interest. Their piano stood in Sis-
ter Young's room, and her health being very
poor he proposed to have it brought to our
house when the upper part was done. This
pleased us both immensely. I never became
weary of practicing until after I heard it was
decided that we were to be broken up and
move to the Rocky Mountains. Though the
piano remained there through the winter I
felt no encouragement to continue taking les-
sons, though father tried to stimnlate me to go
on, and said, to encourage me, that they should
have the necessary material taken to manufac-
ture pianos and I should have one, but I knew
that I would forget it all; and we little
thought of its being so long before we got to
our destination.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
COTTAGE HOSPITALS.
FROM “WOMEN AT WORK."
	England is far in advance of this country
in her provision for her care of the sick in
small cities and towns, and the system of Cot-
tage Hospitals there in operation, is one which
we may study with advantage and adopt with
great benefit to the sick.
	Our large cities are, in general, well sup-
plied with hospital accommodations, but the
smaller cities and larger towns are lamentably
deficient in this respect.  Concerning the de-
sirability of providing these places with small
hospitals, there can be no question.  Especial-
ly are they needed in the larger manufactur-
ing towns, in which many of the employees,
are without a home, living in boarding places
and in case of accident or disease are but poor-
ly provided for, and many lives are lost in
consequence of improper care.  Any physi-
cian practicing in these towns well knows how
unsuitable are these boarding places for the
care of the sick, and often finds his labors
will be of no avail in face of the improper
conditions which surround his patient. How
diffierent would be the result, if the sick or in-
jured could be removed at once to a quiet
home-like cottage hospital, where, with a
trained nurse in charge, and attended by the
physician of his choice, he would also have all
the resources of the hospital at his command!
	The value of these small hospitals has
been well tested in England, during the past
twenty years, and their simplicity, the home-
like surroundings, and ready adaptability to
the needs of country life, have won for them a

[Column 2]
warm place in the regard of the English peo-
ple.  Two hundred and fifty cottage hospitals
are now in successful operation in that country,
relieving about 50,000 patients annually, who
contribute at least one-sixth the cost of their
maintenance to the hospital.  If this system
could be generally introduced into this coun-
try, its value would be  provided with hospital ac-
comodations, who are now deprived of their
advantages, many of whom would be willing
to pay a small sum weekly for the medical
care and nursing thus provided.
	A large outlay is not required, for the neces-
sary building need not be expensive.  In Eng-
land, the average cost of cottage hospitals,
having a capacity of about eight beds, is from
$4,000 to $6,000 each.  In my own experience,
with a capacity of twenty-five beds for child-
ren, $5,000 will about cover the expense of
land and building, of course, the cost of con-
struction will vary with the location, but there
is surely no town of 10,000 inhabitants, and
upwards, too poor to establish and maintain
one of these small institutions.
	A small hospital managed by ladies has
been in successful operation at Pittsfield,
Mass., for several years, another is contem-
plated at Newton, while a third, intended es-
pecially for children, has just been established
at Baldwinville, in the same State.  This is a
work for which ladies are well adapted, and
much of the energy now lying idle, or exerted
in wrong directions, might be profitably ex-
pended in the establishment and support of
cottage hospitals in every town of 10,000 in-
habitants in this country.
	The plan of operation may be very simple,
a small building, in a good location, can be
rented until desirable to build, and a nurse
placed in charge, with a woman in the kitchen,
and such other help as may be needed.  The
physicians of the vicinity will, I have no
doubt, be ready and willing to co-operate, and
can arrange their attendance so as not to inter-
fere with other engagements.  Each physician
is expected to take charge of the patients sent
by him to the hospital, and in England it is
customary to appoint one or more of the medi-
cal staff, in rotation, whose duty it is to look
after all the cases in the hospital requiring
especial attention in the absence of their
physician.  The medical director, as he is
called, is not to prescribe, except in an emer-
gency, for any but his own patients, but is to
carry out the wishes of his colleague, who is to
visit the patients under his care daily, and
order any alterations he may deem desirable.
L. W. Baker, M. D.


ELIZABETH MANNING HAWTHORNE.—Miss
Elizabeth Manning Hawthorne, the eldest
sister of Nathaniel Hawthorne, died recently,
at the residence of Mr. Appleton, at Mount
Serrat, Beverly, Mass;, at the age of eighty
years. She has lived a retired life for the
past thirty years in the old homestead where
she died. She was the eldest child of Nathan-
iel and Elizabeth Manning Hawthorne, whose
children were Elizabeth Manning, Nathaniel
the poet, and Maria Louise Hawthorne. The
youngest sister was lost on the steamer Henry
Clay, several years ago. Elizabeth was a lady
of pronounced literary tastes and liberal
culture. She was a writer, and was given
to much study, but so far as is known has
never given any of the fruits of her genius
to the world. She was two years older
than her gifted brother, who often said of
her that she could attain greater fame than
he had done, if she wonld apply herself to
literary pursuits. An ardent admirer of
nature, she was content to retire among the
woods and flowers which she loved.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 155


SILENT VOICES.

The voice of the heart, and the voice of the brain,
Their language is silent, but thrilling the strain!
What volumes they write! and what volumes they tell,
And the soul stores them all in its innermost cell.

At midnight, when sleep has forsaken the eye,
These voices come thronging, and sleep they defy;
And memory rising, obeying their call
Draws aside her sweet veil, or throws back her sad pall!

Alone on the mountains, these voices we hear,
Breaking sweet on the heart, on the brain, on the ear;
Transporting the soul to a land of its own,
And binding it round by a mystical zone!

In a voice without sound, they converse with the soul,
Defying restraint, and defying control;
'Tis a carnival sweet, that the spirit then holds,
And wraps the corporeal in magical folds!

'Tis a foretaste of that which in future will be,
A mirror upheld in which visions we see!
A picture presented—a realm of the soul,
Releasing the spirit from mortal control!

How we hunger, and listen to voices like these,
That come in the flowers, that come in the trees,
That come in the cataract, roaring and wild,
That has often our soul of its sorrow beguiled!

Let us often be silent, and watch for the time,
When such voices ring out in their mystical chime!
Such are often in mercy sent down from above,
Infused by the spirit of God!—who is love!

Oh life! earthly life! thy ENIGMA is grand!
Thy mystical units of elysian land !—
Thy whisp’rings bring balm to a sorrowing soul,
And it seeks not the magical charm to control.

'Tis like manna descending each day, as of old, 
And the same loving shepherd is watching His fold;
And His children are fed in a mystical way,
For the voice of the shepbord they love and obey.
								HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 21st, 1883.


﻿PATCHWORK.

'Tis not genteel, they tell me now,
	To make a patchwork quilt,
'Tis sign of poverty they vow
	And poverty is guilt

In worldly eyes—well let it be,
But you and I should clearer see,
I think it is a branch of art
That forms a good, important part
In home economy and joy,
And pleasant hours without alloy,
May thus be spent in social chat,
While fingers fly this way and that,
Forming designs of light and shade
Until a perfect piece is made;
And then the quilting, Oh how nice!
To meet in friendship and rejoice,
When work is done the circle spreads.
Mingling the white and golden heads
Of father, mother, sister, brother—
[If not your own, why then, some other,]
In pleasant play or may-be dance.
While jest and song the hours enhance;
From many a patchwork quilt I trace
Some well known name, some dear, dear face,
And from one star will spring anew,
Some time of love and friendship true.
Our parents loved those simple joys,
Shall we forget—their girls and boys,
And in the new-scenes scorn the old?
Ah no! there lies the purest gold,
And is not life all patchwork too,
Our thoughts and actions, false or true,
Pieces that go to form the whole
Great plan divine the Gods control;
Then be our station high or low
Let’s cut and fit the pieces so
That perfect shape and colors blend,
Praying that One above to lend
His wisdom where our own would fall,
Courage when our weak hearts would quail.
Then may our life work be replete
In all things perfect and complete.
									HOPE.


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]

	Many incidents worthy of record and evinc-
ing the dauntless courage of Sister Presendia
occurred while the Buells were living on Fish-
ing River, Clay Co., Missouri. Mr. Buell
was employed as carder, at a mill some dis-
tance from home, and his wife and family were
consequently very lonely, as the log house
they occupied was some distance from neigh-
bors, situated in the woods. Here in this se-
questered spot Sister Presendia lived with only
a young girl for her companion. And even
the girl who had come there on purpose to
teach in that district, of course left Mrs. Buell
entirely alone during the day, as her little son
George was old enough to attend school and
went with his teacher. She writes, "I used to
stay alone all day in the woods, my company,
the wild birds, and my music the cooing of the
turtle doves in the forest." In this very hum-
ble home, on the 24th of April, 1838, her first
daughter was born, but lived only four hours,
she called her Adeline Elizabeth. It is won-
derful how much hardship Mormon women
have borne; and under what peculiarly trying
circumstances many of the children of the
Latter-day Saints have been born.
	As an example of heroic courage, we are
proud to give the following. One day while
Mrs. B. was living in this secluded place, she
had occasion to go to the mill four miles dis-
tant; she drove her own team and took her
little son George with her. As she came out
upon the prairie she had to pass through a large
company of armed men going up to Far
West. She well knew their purpose. Their
horses were loaded down with bedding, spades,
shovels and cooking utensils, and there was a
terrible clatter of tin dishes. There were two
men who knew Mrs. Buell and spoke to her.
She says, as the horsemen rose to go up the
hill, she, with her team and little child, was
only a little to the left of them. The horse-
men called a halt—and dismounted, facing
the company towards Mrs. B. and the child,
holding their horses by the bits. Sister
Presendia says, "I thought of Mr. Carey, who
had a short time before been killed on the
prairie as he was returning home from the
mill. Then, for the first time in my life, I
expected to be shot. I asked the Lord in
silent prayer to let my only child go with me
if I should be killed, as my husband had en-
tirely lost his faith in the Gospel. I did not
hurry or urge my team forward, but went
steadily on over the hill, and the horsemen
stood looking at me, but the shock nearly
overcame me." Think of the trial of that
moment; and also of the brutality of men who
style themselves "protectors" of women and
children, to thus intimidate a defenceless
woman and her little child on an open prairie,
where there was no possibility of obtaining help!
It is too inhuman to bear thinking of. Those
who read this account will doubtless look with
still greater reverence on the white hairs of
this aged veteran in the faith. The same Fall
Mrs. B., while living on the river bank, had
another dreadful fright from these Missouri
mobocrats, who were anxious to drive and des-
troy the Mormons. One day six men rode up
to her door on horseback, all well armed.
They inquired if she had seen two men pass
by there on foot. She said, No, she had not;
then they crossed the river in search of them.
They had but just gone when two brethren,
Bro. Rust and Bro. Cleveland, came in; they
were in search of work. Mrs. B. imformed
them of the danger that awaited them if they
proceeded. She gave them something to eat
and to carry with them in their pockets, and
told them they had better go up the river and

[Column2]
back to Far West and travel all night as they
had certainly been watched for evil. The
brethren were often whipped and sometimes
killed if they could be caught outside of the
"Mormon" settlements.
	Later on in the season when the carding
was over where Mr. Buell had been employed,
he rented a grist mill and two carding ma-
chines, built a comfortable house for his fami-
ly, out of the woods, and commenced business
again on his own account, and run the mill
through the following winter. The persecutions
against the Saints grew stronger and stronger.
Mr. Buell having apostatized from the Church,
was possessed of a very opposite spirit to that
of his wife, who was strong in faith and fervent
in spirit. Sister Presendia prayed earnestly to
the Lord for her companion, that he might re-
turn to the faith, but his mind had grown very
dark and it was useless to reason with, or en-
treat him to see the error and doubt which
had misled and confused him. The Hunting-
tons were obliged to leave Far West at the
time of the driving of the Saints from Mis-
souri in the Spring of 1839, and Sister Pres-
endia felt entirely alone and forsaken. She
expresses it thus, "I never saw my mother
again. I felt alone on the earth, with no one
to comfort me, excepting my little son George,
for my husband had become a bitter apostate,
and I could not speak in favor of the Church
in his presence. There was by this time not
one true Saint in the State of Missouri to
knowledge."
	Sister Huntington (the mother of Sister
Presendia) died on the 8th of July following,
from hardship and fatigue brought on by the
merciless men, "who persecuted the Saints
unto death;" many were killed and many died
of hardships, others deprived of health, which
they were never able to regain.
	From that time on Sister Presendia suffered
greatly in her feelings, and was overburdened
with sorrow, and her mind saddened with the
griefs of the people she so loved, and she
obliged to remain away from them all, with no
one to whom she could open her heart. Mr.
Buell prospered in business and in a temporal
point of view, the family had an abundance of
everything necessary to make them in every
way comfortable.
	About this time another son was born to the
house of Buell, Norman Oliver, on the 31st
of January, 1840, which one can readily per-
ceive was directly after the dreadful outrage
perpetrated against the Saints in Mo. These
two boys, George and Oliver, both to grew man-
hood, married and had families of their own.
The next few years after the Saints left the
State of Missouri, some of the greatest events
transpired in the history of the Church.

To be Continued.


TO PUBLISHERS AND EDITORS.—Many
newspapers and magazines have been estab-
lished in the United States and Canada within
the last two years, the names of which do not
appear in any newspaper directory or cata-
logue. The publishers and editors of such are
invited to send copies and a full description of
their respective publications to the editor of
Hubbard's Newspaper and Bank Directory of
the World, New Haven, Conn., U. S. A.,
that they may be properly catalogued and des-
cribed in the forthcoming edition of that work
for 1883. Editors who kindly give this notice
an insertion in their columns will confer a
favor upon the Press of America.


It is hard to personate and act a part long
for where truth is not at the bottom, nature
will always be endeavoring to return, and will
peep out and betray herself one time or
other.—Tillotson.


156	WOMAN'S EXPONENT

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1883.


[Column 1]
THE DESERET HOSPITAL.

DESULTORY NOTES.

	We are often asked why there is not more in
the EXPONENT. concerning the Deseret Hos-
pital. To give definite particulars that the
public might like to know would occupy consid-
erable space, and would scarcely be of sufficient
importance to give so large a share of a very
small paper, which is published in the interest
of women generally, both young and old, and
not one particular organization or department
of either charity, industry, or politics. We
may say, however, with all safety at the pres-
ent time, that thus far the Deseret Hospital has
prospered. With the many difficulties to sur-
mount that ever attend the establishing of an
institution of this character, and, taking the
whole matter into consideration, it cannot but
be said the ladies so far have done well. To
be sure they were most of them inexperienced
in hospital work, but time, patience and per-
severance accomplish wonders when the heart
is interested, and certainly the ladies of this
city and adjacent cities and counties have mani-
fested a true spirit of benevolence and liberality
in bestowing of their means, and a desire to
help carry on this enterprise, which is most
praise-worthy and admirable. There has been
obstacles to encounter and emergencies to meet
which were not anticipated in the beginning,
but such things are incidental in all depart-
ments of life and work, and therefore, scarcely
need commenting upon. The people were ap-
pealed to for free donations to assist in furnish-
ing and fitting up the building, and the res-
ponse was general from both men and women,
as well as prompt and generous.
	A great many have feit very anxious to help
forward the institution by giving public enter-
tainments; perhaps, because they knew more
of the needs of such an institution, and it is
customary to aid in this way, and certainly
it has been a great blessing and help to the
Hospital. The proceeds of the concert given in
the large Tabernacle last July, under the direc-
tion of a very able Committee, Elder George
Goddard, Chairman and general manager of the
affair, did considerable towards helping this in-
stitution in its incipiency. Since then a Pri-
mary Concert has been given in the Elevnth
Ward in this city, and the proceeds handed over
to the Hospital, $41, from the children, exceed-
ingly good indeed for the little folks; of course,
a great deal was due to the excellent manage-
ment of Mr. Louie Felt and her associates in
getting up the entertainment.
	The Unity Club, which waa organized in
November, 1882, have made a donation of $500
(five hundred dollars) to the Deseret Hospital
for the benefit of that institution. It is certain-
ly most commendable in these ladies to work
and aid with material help, a place for the sick

[Column 2]
and injured to be cared for and made comforta-
ble as they could not be in their own homes.
Tne money given was the proceeds of entertain-
ments and parties, for which the members of
the club worked with all diligence and enthu-
siasm, realizing they were laboring in a charita-
ble cause for an institution just in its infancy,
struggling for permanent establishment.
	For years the sisters actively interested in
the Relief Society in this Church have seen and
felt deeply the need of a place of this kind.
But where to obtain the means to found a hos-
pital seemed to be the difficulty in the way of
its accomplishment. There did not appear
beforehand, at least in the minds of many, so
much apprehension about maintaining it were
it once practically started. However, having
undertaken this benevolent enterprise, the
ladies of the Executive Board find that it will
require continuous application to meet the
monthly expenses, as there are necessarily more
patients that can only pay a small sum towards
their care and treatment, than those who can
pay in full the expenses for board and medical
attention.
	Every person must know what it is to go into
an empty house and furnish it with everything
for comfort and convenience, and besides the
furnishings such as are necessary for family use
in a home, a hospital must have a dispensary
supplied with medicines, and also instruments
for operations of all kinds. In this respect the
Deseret Hospital is well fitted up. The instru-
ments were purchased in New York City, and
are of the very best material and manufacture.
	All the apartments and wards are neatly and
suitably furnished, and the accomodations are
such as the patient might enjoy in a home,
more than like an ordinary hospital. All the
people employed there strive to make the
house home-like and its inmates happy. Ser-
vices of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints are held in the reception room every
Sunday afternoon, and the sacrament is admin-
istered under the direction of the Bishop of
the Ward and his Counselors. The sick have
the privilege of the administration of the Elders
of the Church, which is certainly an advantage
and blessing to the suffering, which the Latter-
day Saints can appreciate.
	The medical board is ample for all emergen-
cies. Dr. W. F. Anderson, the regular visiting
surgeon, has an established reputation as a
physician, of more than a quarter of a century’s
standing in this community. Several lady
physicians are on the visiting and consulting
board who are well and favorably known as suc-
cessful practitioners and a house surgeon, who,
though a young lady, has already won laurels
in the profession, and made hosts of friends in
the calling she has chosen.


NO ADVERSE LEGISLATION.

	Congress has adjourned and comparatively
little has been accomplished, at lsast according
to the statements and dispatches received. This
people can congratulate themselves upon the
fact that the adverse legislation proposed by
anti-Mormons has all failed. None of the bills
proposing harsh or arbitrary measures having
passed this session, notwithstanding all the elo-
quence of famous senators wasted upon the
matter. One point has certainly been gained,
the seat has been given to the delegate of the
people's party from this Territory. The bill pre-
sented by the Utah delegate, which we publish
in this issue, was certainly more favorably re-
ceived than the opponents of "Mormons" would
like. The memorial of the committee was also
candidly considered and both the bill and the
memorial are such as can be recommended by


the people, in whose interest they were present
ed.
	The work of the Constitutional Committee
having been finished for the present session
they have returned home, and we shall proba-
bly hear more definitely what has been done
when the Committee meets in this City on the
10th of April next. However as it is we feel
satisfied all has been done that could be during
so short a time and with the bitter prejudices
that have been aroused and the antagonism that
has grown up in consequence of the falsehoods
and misrepresentations of those who are de-
sirous of making political capital out of the
Utah question.


MR. CAINE'S BILL.

	Hon. John T. Caine, on the 26th of last
month, introduced the following bill into the
House of Representatives:
	"A bill providing for the election of certain
officers in the Territory of Utah.
	"Be it enacted, by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of Amer-
ica in Congress assembled, that at the election
to be held in the Territory of Utah on the first
Monday in August, 1883, the qualified electors
of said Territory may vote, not only for mem-
bers of the legislative assembly and other offi-
cers whose election falls upon that day, but
for all territorial, county, and percinct officers
in the same way and with the same effect as
they might have done on the first Monday in
August last, if the commissioners appointed
under the act of March 22nd, 1882, had not
failed to appoint registration and election offi-
cers: Provided, that their terms of office shall
expire at the same time they would have done
had they been elected on said first Monday in
August, 1882; and in the meantime the duties
of the said offices shall continue to be performed
by persons now holding said offices agreeably
to existing laws."
	The bill was read twice and referred to the
committee on the judiciary and ordered printed.


THE VOICE OF ONE OF THE POOR FE-
MALES OF UTAH.

	No man has the right to prescribe to another
what shall be his religious belief, and the
Latter-day Saints, who have added more to the
wealth of this nation than any other class or
colonists—by reclaiming and populating these
barren wastes, being the majority in this Terri-
tory claim the right of self-government, and as
Judge Black said, at the close of his argument
for Utah, (whose name we shall honor in con-
nection with others who have nobly plead the
cause of the oppressed,) "You have no author-
ity to legislate about marriage in a Territory; the
people of Utah have as good a right to their
religion as you have to yours." But if you, who
profess to have gained so much greater light
and wisdom, could show us a better way, or any
better fruits of true civilization, from your own
domestic relations, we would be willing to yield
the point. But when a people assume claims
and power which are unconstitutional and try
to force them upon us "by means flatly pro-
hibited" and "The right to say that the women
of Utah, or the men of Utah, shall not exercise
their religion as they may think it right and
proper, and that they shall be deprived of all
political power in this country because of their
entertainment of opinions upon this subject dif-
ferent from their own," and "that women who
are not found to be bigamists or polygamists," or
to have contracted this tie are to be disfran-
chised, and though we "Mormons" have never
infringed or violated the rights or claims of any


[Column 1]
﻿man or set of men, yet we are not to be allotted
even the claims of the robber or murderer or
criminals in general, but are to be convicted
and punished without judge or jury, we have
neither inclination nor intention to submit to
such an outrage quietly, without even a struggle.
And were we allowed to act upon our constitu-
tional political rights we would first expel from
our midst the characters who "openly and
notoriously" practice their immoralities and
also those who publish the lowest of slanders
against an innocent people, and it would in my
mind not "require the judgment of a court" to
remove such institutions. Let them cut out
their own cancer, which is the foulest blot that
could ever come upon civilization, and if the
feeders and supporters of these wicked and low
lived establishments were treated as they
should be they would not be permitted to vote
or to hold office. These criminal practices were
never countenanced in any "Mormon" com-
munity, while they were allowed to hold the
reins of government, but "where the carrion is
there will the eagles be gathered." This nation
is indebted not only to the "Mormon" men, but
to the "Mormon" women, and though we have
been wronged and borne our wrongs in silence
for many years and were willing to forgive and
"bury the hatchet," when we see that the very
worst enemies" to our Constitution are being
allowed to harass and afflict us, whom they
know to be the most peacably inclined, indus-
trious and enterprising class of people, and who
first colonized and made these once dreary and
barren deserts inhabitable, leaving no stone
unturned to rob and strip us again of our rights
as American citizens, and of every lawful
means of defence against the meanness and
violence the most corrupt set of lawless aggress-
ors that ever disgraced a nation, we do not
intend to yield quietly again, to be driven from
our happy homes, which are far dearer to us
now than were those which they robbed us of
in an early day and drove us into the wilder-
ness. We will publish our history and also
theirs, and expose to the world the abominable
schemos and hypocrisy of some of the wise and
learned of their "Scribes and Pharisees;" who are
trying to disfranchise the "Mormon" women
because, forsooth, we vote for the men of our
choice, being to our own interest to do so,
instead of for those who have openly acknowl-
edged themselves to be our most bitter enemies.
What an enormous "sacrifice" for the few Gen-
tile ladies who vote in Utah to deny themselves
this privilege long enough "to destroy the power
of the Mormon Church," expecting, as many do,
to share in the booty.
	We would call their attention to a time when
some were so very humaue as to propose the
right of suffrage to be conferred upon the "Mor-
mon" women that they might free themselves
from the awful bondage of the "Mormon"
Priesthood or hierarchy. This right having been
given us by the "Mormon" Legislature, over
twelve years ago, with the full consent of the
United States. We were not slow to avail
ourselves of it, and if we were in bondage and
felt our chains to be very galling we could most
assuredly have refused to live in, or sustain
plural marriage, and we are at perfect liberty, at
all times, to free ourselves if so disposed, and if
there was the least danger or necessity we
could call on this army—stationed here upon
the bench to protect us. This fact was proven
in an early day, when a few weak minded sisters
sought protection under the wing of Colonel
Steptoe's army, but which, I think, proved a
warning to others to beware of "wolves in
sheep's clothing." "Mormon" women are not
so ignorant as might be supposed, of the power
that they hold to declare polygamy illegal.

[Column 2]
But before Senator Edmunds and others allow
themselves to be convicted by overstepping their
authority in taking away our rights without
due process of law, they would do well to come
and visit some of "these poor females," for
whom they profess so much sympathy and'
wish to emancipate "from the slavery of voting.
(I wonder these words did not choke him)
Instead of trusting to the tales of those who are
using them as "cat's paws," and we warrant that
they "could get at the real opinion of the
"Mormon women," who are at liberty to speak
for themselves and are more than willing to
"give them the free exercise of those opinions,"
and they might possibly blush at their own
ignorance and bigotry, and return wi er if not
better judges of the human heart, and of the
superior blessings and privileges enjoyed by the
"Mormon" wives who have honored this Celes-
tial order. I believe that they would find more
advocates and those who would sustain this
order among the women than among the men.
Women are generally inspired by the strongest
religious motives; and they have the greatest
faith and courage to endure pain and the various
crosses in life. This has been demonstrated in
all ages. There are of course, exceptions to
every rule, but in the life of Christ, see the devo-
tion that was shown by woman. She was last
to linger at the Cross, and was first at the Sep-
ulchre. We read "when it was yet dark" and
"when the disciples went away again to their
own home" Mary still "stood without the Sep-
ulchre weeping," and she was the first to hear
the Savior's voice, who gave to her the message
to take to His brethren.
	I know of no plural wife who has felt fright-
ened enough to propose being divorced from her
husband, but I did hear of one man who, at the
first sound of the news that these commisioners
were to be sent here, gave to his second wife a
bill of divorcement. And I remember (not
many years ago) of a few dissatisfied men who
murmured against the authority of the Priest-
hood and when in darkness they sought revela-
tion from peepers and other spurious sources
and withdrew from the Church—and to gain
favor and popularity in the world they had to
put away their plural wives, though some had
become mothers and were devotedly attached to
their husbands and the parting between some
of them was enough to melt the hardest heart.
They had never given it a thought, when leav-
ing this Church that they would ever repudiate
any of their wives. But some of the first wives
gave their lords to understand that they had
no right to live with a plurality of wives out-
side of the Church, which they had withdrawn
from. So the virtuous portion sorrowfully sub-
mited to their fate with martyr-like fortitude
and the majority, losing what little light they
had fell into the worst darkness, spiritualism
and infidelity, and how much higher are they
now in the estimation of the world than are the
ones who held on to "Mormonism" and stood
out in defence of this Celestial principle of mar-
riage? I fail to see that they have gained any
thing; but they have lost every thing that was
essential to true happiness in this world and
all hope in the world to come. And as for the
demon jealousy, it flourishes more outside of
plural marriage than it does among the ones who
practice it whatever may be said to the contrary.
We all know and expect that our husbands will
acknowledge their wives before the world, there-
fore there is no deception nor necessity for prac-
ticing the system of hypocrisy and the awful,
vices of intrigue and lying which our most
zealous and over righteous accusers are addicted
to—encouraging secret transgressions; they
steal away from the only woman, whom they
honor with the name of wife, and indulge pro-

[Column 3]
miscuously without any regard to honor or mo-
rality, and many of them without the least
restraint, indulge in open profligacy, and then
adding insult to injury such characters set them-
selves up to judge us—denouncing the men and
the women who are "in the marriage relation"
as criminals, doomed to suffer any penalty which
they see fit to place upon us. But "people living
in glass houses should not throw stones." If it
is crime they wish to repress, let them begin at
home and first honor "that most sacred tie
which lies at the foundation of the home and
of society," (which we not only preach, but
paactice,) instead of saying, "I am more holy
than thou," because a new faith happens to
come in contact with the old rules and prejudices
and long established views of society, and their
opinions of "social order." "He that is without
sin among you let him cast a stone at us." But
we truly rejoice that we stand in our own posi-
tion to-day instead of theirs; for "he that is of
God heareth God's words," and the Latter-day
Saints have long been prepared for the scourges
and judgments which were to "commence at
the house of the Lord," and we see the calami-
ties already coming which were pronounced,
(through the Prophet Joseph Smith) upon
this favored nation, if they would not repent
and cease their persecuting God's people. The
things once viewed in the far future are now at
our doors, and do we rejoice at the sufferings of
these our fellow beings—even though some may
have sanctioned and had a hand in making these
wicked and inhuman laws to destroy and break
us up—rending assunder the dearest ties of con-
sanguinity, to rob and drive us again? No! there
is not one in possession of a Christian spirit, but
would be glad to save them if it were possible,
from the suffering which their own deeds are
bringing upon them. But when they not only
refuse to accept salvation when it is offered
them by God's chosen servants, and scorn the
warning voice, but continue to persecute them
to the death; they cannot eacape, for He has
long since decreed these things. We read in our
papers from day to day of the awful suffering
from disasters causing untold misery and an-
guish, such as no language has power to de-
cribe—sweeping thousands of God's creatures in-
to eternity without the least preparation or
warning, and to think that we have no power
to prevent it, and the only thing we can do is
to plead with that God of mercy, whose hand
has ever been over us for good, that he will show
mercy unto those who are innocent. But the
wicked of this nation have got a heavy debt to
pay. There are a few of God's predictions
which we see are being fulfilled. "Behold,
saith the Lord, I will bring plagues upon the
world, the sword, famine, death and destruction
I will hold my tongue no more. The innocent
and righteous blood crieth unto me and the
souls of the just complain continually. There-
fore, saith the Lord, I will surely avenge them,
and receive unto me all the innocent blood from
among them. Behold my people are led as a
flock to the slaughter. I will bring them with
a mighty hand and a stretched out arm.
	Woe to them that sin and keep not my com-
mandments! saith the Lord: Behold clouds from
the east and from the north unto the south,
and they are very horrible to look upon, full of
wrath and storm, and there shall be great fear-
fulness and trembling upon earth: and they
that see the wrath shall be afraid and trembling
shall come upon them. Fire and hail, and
many waters, that all fields may be full, and all
rivers, with the abundance of great waters, and
they shall break down the cities and walls—and
grass of the meadows, and their corn. Like as
thou hast done unto my chosen, saith the Lord,
even so shall God do unto thee, and shall deliver


thee into mischief—Thy children shall die of
hunger, and thou shalt fall through the sword,
thy cities shall be broken down, and all thine
shall perish with the sword in the field.” Our
God seeth all things, and He is surely avenging
the wrongs of an innocent oppressed people,
and our enemies will have no power to escape
the fierce judgments of the Almighty.
						H. M. Whitney.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 157


158	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Classes for instruction in midwifery and
obstetrics are being formed in the city in order
to meet the requirements of competent help in
this department of science.

	DR. R. B. Pratt, who has been teaching
for some years past, advertises her class will
commence in April. Terms thirty dollars for
the course, and twelve dollars for the books
used by the students. See advertisment.

	For sale at this office, Two Poems, by Bishop
O. F. Whitney, now on a mission in England.
The book is in pamphlet form, 10cts. per copy.
The proceeds of the sales are to be given as
a donation to the Deseret Hospital.

	IN the last issue of the EXPONENT we re-
published "A Sermon on Canvas" by O. F.
Whitney, but forgot to give him or the Millen-
nial Star credit for the article. We beg
pardon for the neglect and recommend the
article to our readers as a sublime and touch-
ing pen picture; those who read the descrip-
tion will feel as if they had actually seen the
artist's masterpiece.

	THE Conference of the women's organiza-
tions of Weber Stake was held in the Taberna-
cle, Ogden City, March 8, 9 and 10. Sisters
E. R. S. Smith and Zina D. H. Young went
up to the Conference on Thursday, but re-
turned the same evening, as the woman's
Conference in this Stake convened on Friday
and Saturday. Reports of these Conferences
will be published in the next number of
this paper.

	ON Wednesday, March 9, in company with
Mrs. M. I. Horne, we went to Coalville in
the interest of the Deseret Hospital. A meet-
ing had been previously appointed for half
past seven in the evening and a crowded house
was the result. The subject of the benefits of
hospital treatment for the sick and injured
was dwelt upon, and some committees were
appointed to make further arrangements for
the benefit of the institution.

	ON Saturday, March 3, an annual meeting
of the Primary Association of Farmington
was held at that place. Sisters E. R. S.
Smith, M. I. Horne and E. C. Clawson of
this city, went up on the morning train to
attend the meeting. Arriving at the depot,
they were serenaded by the Primary band,
who escorted them to the meeting house, play-
ing some enlivening music. The meeting was
well attended and the exercises ably conducted
by Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, who has been
untiring in her efforts to help the children
forward in their organizations. The pro-
gramme was interesting, the selections appro-
priate and very creditably rendered.

	ELIZA R. SNOW'S POEMS. The first volume
of Sister Eliza's Poems, which were published
several years ago in England, has been re-
bound and will soon be ready for sale. This
book contains many sublime effusions
which strike a harmonious chord in the heart
of every Latter-day Saint. "The Invocation
or the Eternal Father and Mother," a poem
entitled "Two Chapters of the Life of Presi-
dent Joseph Smith," "The Assassination of
the Prophet and Patriarch" and many other

[Column 2]
grand and touching pieces are contained in
this work. The Young People's Libraries
should be supplied with this work.

	Dr. E. S. Barney who has spent the last
five years in medical studies, most of that
time in some of the best medical colleges in
the East, makes quite an advantageous offer
to those wishing some obtain a knowledge of the
science of medicine and anatomy. Dr.
Barney offers for the specified sum of $2 per
week to take twenty-five students and provide
furnished rooms, bed, fuel, light, cook and
washwoman, making it something of a club ar-
rangement, as they will bring with them or
furnish their own provisions. The doctor will
give them free medical instruction, lectures on
anatomy, physiology, materia medica, surgery
and practice. This is certainly an economical
plan to work upon; particulars can be obtained
on making application by letter to Dr. E. S.
Barney, Box 555, Salt Lake City, Utah. Mrs.
Barney was a very successful school teacher
for many years in this city, and has, by patient
application and her own efforts, risen to the
ranks of the medical profession. The offer
she has made should meet with a ready res-
ponse from the several parts of the country,
for it has certainly been made in good faith
and with an earnest desire to benefit human-
ity. A more extended knowledge of nursing
and obstetrics, and the laws of life and health
cannot fail to be beneficial to all.


RESOLUTIONS.

	Resolutions of respect to our President, Margaret A.
Lambert, who departed this life January 6th, 1883,
aged twenty three years, ten months and eighteen days.
	Through the providence of God we are again called
to mourn, the loss of one of our members by death, two
others having died within the year, and this time our
beloved and respected President, whose loss we deeply
mourn for we loved her for her kind and gentle man-
ners, her faithfulness and integrity in the cause of
Christ, her prompt and punctual attendance to the
duties of her office, and the exemplary life she led
worthy of imitation in both her public and private
career.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we condole with her hus-
band in his irreparable bereavement of a faithful and
loving wife and companion, and with her parents and
relatives and friends.
	May we long remember her saintly life, and emulate
her virtues, and her moral, religious and domestic life,
and may her infant daughter never know the want of a
mother's care, but live to fill up a life of usefulness.
	Resolved, that we present a copy of the foregoing reso-
lutions to the parents and husband of the deceased.
	Resolved, that we send a copy to the EXPONENT for
publication.
							ANNA LAMBERT,
							ELVA WOOLSTENHULME,
							EDITH ATWOOD,
											Councelors.
					ELIZA ATWOOD, Assistant Secretary.
Kamas, January 22nd, 1883.
	P. S. Since writing the above her infant daughter
has passed away.


﻿RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister Ellen
Condie, who departed this life Febuary 21st, 1883, aged
seventy years.
	The following preamble and resolutions were unani-
mously adopted by the members of the Fourth Ward
Relief Society.
	Whereas, an Allwise Providence has called from us,
by the hand of death, our beloved and respected sister;
	Resolved, that we recognize in the death of our Sister
Ellen Condie, the loss of an able, efficient and worthy
teacher and co-laborer in the Fourth Ward Relief Society.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past faithful labors and
devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and highest
respect of us all.
	Resolved, that we condole and deeply sympathize


with the bereaved family and friends In the loss of &
hind wife, affectionate mother, worthy teacher and a
good and respected citizen.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon our
record, and that a copy be furnished the bereaved
family, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, for publication.
							MRS. SUSAN SPERRY.
							M. E. TAYLOR, Secretary.
	Salt Lake City, March 4th, 1883.


PRIMARY REPORT.

CHESTER PRIMARY.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I am happy to say that our little meetings
are well attended, considering our scattered
condition. We have had one Primary fair.
A large table was covered with children's arti-
cles, such as wool flowers and fancy card work,
hoods, stockings, and many other things that
I will not mention. We have had a visit from
Sister Helena Madson and her Counselors.
She is our Stake President. She is a very
kind lady. Our much beloved President is
not at home at present; when she is away we
miss her kind voice and wise counsel. I am
but thirteen years old and this is my first at-
tempt to write to you. I send a New Year’s
greeting to all my Primary friends. Praying
that our Heavenly Father will bless us all,
that His Spirit will rest upon us is my prayer.
	I remain, your sister in the Gospel,
						MINNIE ALLRED.
	P. S. Sister Wells, I am one of the little
girls that helped make the hair wreath that
was sent to you from Chester three years ago.
I thank you for the little Primary Hymn
book you sent me.			M. A.


LETTER FROM ARIZONA.

ERASTUS, APACHE CO. ARIZONA,
				January, 30th, 1883.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	I thought perhaps a few lines from this out
of the way place might find a corner in your
delightful little paper. Last Friday, the 26th
of the month, was the birthday of one of our
good mothers in Israel, Sister M. P. Killian.
She is President of the Reief Society of this
place. Having recently lost her husband she
was feeling quite low spirited and cast down.
The brethren and sisters turned out en masse
and made things lively in the shape of a sur-
prise dinner, Sister Killian not being aware
of their intentions until they came into her
house well laden with baskets, etcetera. Soon
the tables were fairly groaning under their
weight of good things and all sat down to par-
take of the delicious repast. After dinner the
Choir sung several hymns, Bishop S. E. John-
son, made a few remarks and spoke in praise
of Sister Killian, who was completely over-
come by this unexpected demonstration. Bro-
ther Johnson presented her a beautiful card
bearing a quotation from Psalms, 27th chapter,
17th verse. "Wait on the Lord; be of good
courage, and He shall strenghen thine heart:
wait, I say, on the Lord."
	the evening passed away, each one enjoying
themselves to the utmost.
				BY ONE OF THE MEMBERS.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR EDITOR:
	As it is the contributions that in part com-
prise your valuable paper, I thought I would
throw in my little mite, hoping it will be ac-
ceptable. The EXPONENT has proved a great
blessing to the ladies in this vicinity, fo[-] as
yet we are in an out-of-the-way place, and can-
not get information of what is going on except
by what we glean from reading. What a great


blessing it is to be able to read! It proves in
this, as in all other things, that God in his in-
finite goodness' has provided for his children!
When I stop to meditate on the many good
books—some of them written by inspiration—
for the benefit of the human family, I cannot
bat have a greater reverence for my Heavenly
Father for the gifts he has blessed us with.
And do we appreciate it as we should? I fear
there are a great many of us who do not!
What are we placed on this earth for? Is it
to work; toil and eke out a miserable exis-
tence? I think not, and I think that the Lord
will hold us accountable for letting our talent
lie dormant; our minds need food as well as
our bodies. I believe the Lord intends that
his children shall enjoy the blessings and gifts
that he has blessed them with. We should avail
ourselves of every opportunity that comes in our
way, to improve our minds. What class of wo-
men is there on the face of the earth that
should be more noble, great and good than
those of the Latter-day Saints—with the spirit
of their religion to help them? Then let us,
dear sisters, seek for improvement, and prove
to our Heavenly Father that we are not uncon-
scious of the many blessings He has given on
this earth for us to enjoy. And let us place
such books before our children as will instil
in their little minds principles true and exalt-
ing, that when the Lord comes to make up his
jewels, we will not be so low and ignorant that
He will pass us by.		JOSIE E. CHILDS.
	Castle Dale, Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 159


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

	WAYNESVILLE, OHIO, Feb. 19th, 1883.
Mrs. A. Agatha Pratt—

		DEAR MOTHER:
	I have been to see the floods of Cincinnati
and will give you a few items. The papers
give a pretty fair description of things as they
are in the flooded district.
	I will not attempt to tell how many houses
are under water, how many floating down the
Ohio, how many families homeless and desti-
tute, how many people thrown out of employ-
ment, nor can I tell how many deaths will oc-
cur from the effects of damp and filthy holes
that people call home. If the destruction is at
the same ratio all down the Ohio valley as at
and near Cincinnati I will simply say it will
do much towards the fulfilment of prophecy.
Elder Marks and I took train Friday, a.m. for
Cincinnati, on the only Railroad that runs into
the city, all others being stopped by water.
	We arrived in the city about noon, and put
in good time traveling the flooded districts.
The streets were full of boats of all kinds and
sizes, full of people of all kinds and colors, on,
all kinds of business, some on pleasure bent
some taking food, water and fuel to those im-
prisoned in the upper stories by the floods,
some moving goods to higher ground; some
taking the sufferers to places of safety. This
will describe life in all the flooded towns. We
took boat for the bridge between Cincinnati
and Covington, Ky. The boats that carried the
passengers to the bridge were run by the city,
fare, three cents. We were taken around
several corners pretty well up in the world, at
least we could look in at second and third
story windows. We were landed safely on the
Mammoth Suspension Bridge, high and dry
over all. It is a grand sight to see and a
master piece of art. The water was sixty-six
feet four inches above its regular level, ye
some of the steamers could go under the bridge
by lowering the upper extension of the smoke
stack. We got a splendid view from the bridge
of these large cities, Cincinnatti on the north
side of the Ohio, Covington on the south side.
This place is on high ground and but little of

[Column 2]
it was under water. Newport is on a low point
of land between Licking River and the Ohio.
We stood some time on the bridge taking a
view of the world afloat. We could see the
heights of Cincinnati and the flooded portion.
Old out-houses, dwelling houses of various
dimensions, stores, warehouses,. R. R. depots,
distilleries, coal barges, R. R. cars, engines,
steamboats, tug boats and all kinds of wrecks
seemed to mingle freely together. The only
apparent difference was, the houses, factories,
etc, seemed like a demolished fort and the
tugs and steamers seemed like the triumphant
army that defied the elements and stood guard
over the vanquished forts, riding proudly over
all, sometimes pushing coal flats defiantly
against the stream, or retiring gracefuly with
the current to their place of mooring. Piles
of lumber, frame buildings, hay stacks, boxes,
barrels, etc, were kept in constant motion
by the raging waters, while the whole scene
was dotted by boats of every kind paddling
or pushing with poles, some on the lookout for
plunder, some for fun, some trying to save,
some laden with baskets of food, etc.
Took a look around Covington, crossed to
Newport, the windows all along each side of
the streets had much the appearance of the
show window of a Photo gallery, with this
difference the pictures were all life size and in
their every day dress or undress. We walked
around the high part of the city a little, then
went back to Cincinnati via Newport Bridge.
It was a very warm day, the waters were
receding and the air seemed filled with stench
from the unhoused filth and rubbish.
	We arrived in Cincinnati about dark. The
city was in darkness, the gasworks being
under water. In walking round the city we
saw some of the houseless urchins minus coat,
shoes and hat, curled up in the recesses of the
doors and the streetsteps; that was the most
heart-rending scene of all. To see the little
fellows curled up on the cold stones to shiver
till morning, then go in search of breakfast.
	We walked the streets for one hour,
saw all kinds of people in all kinds of styles,
sharpers, drummers, news boys, boot-blacks,
business men, shop men, women and children
of every kind and color, factory girls, waiter
girls, and bad girls, Irish, Dutch and Yankee.
We took a room facing Fountain Square, went
to the opera saw Haverly's Minstrels pre-
form very good. Next morning took another
look around, boot-blacks thick as fleas, news
boys with the early morning papers yelling
out "Morning Journal, penny post, all about
the floods for one cent." All kinds of ped-
dlers vending their different wares. Went
through the markets saw meats, fishes, fruits
and vegetables of every concievable kind and
flavor. We followed the lower winding alley
as close to the water as possible; sometimes we
would see a crowd of Irish trying to keep
warm by a fire fed by the ruins of boxes and
other peices of timber raked out of the water.
We saw nearly everything afloat that would
float, pig pens, out-houses and dwelling houses,
some just coming in sight by the falling waters,
some turned cross wise, some over and some on
end. We found our way to the place where
the southern depot used to be, but is now a sea
of muddy water. The main buildings were
gone, some were in sight badly wrecked,
some places the tops of the box cars were in
sight, sometimes a road engine with the smoke
stack out of water. We visited the "Early
Breakfast" stove works. It had shut down,
but Mr. Burton showed us through his sample
room and workshop. They make nine hun-
dred and fifty stoves per week. We did not
visit any other factories as they were all
stopped. Many houses are falling down as the
water leaves.
						M. W. PRATT.


THE CROWN JEWELS OF AUSTRIA.

					VIENNA, Oct. 3rd, 1882.
	No one leaves Vienna without a visit to the
treasury, which is full of rich and remarkable
curiosities. On the long walls of the entrance
room hangs many a page of Austrian history.
The standard of the nation catches your eye
as you enter the hall. Just beyond this comes
a delightful assortment of herald's robes—robes
embroidered by fingers which forgot their cun-
ning in the centuries that drifted into the
great past long before the more modern heroes
were born. The shield of the Grand Marshal
calls up a thought of gorgeous pageants and
imperial shows. The ebony casket containing
the keys of the coffins of the ancestors of the
imperial family is equally suggestive. A large
crystal goblet set with rich jewels takes us
back to the times of Charles the Bold. We
sit beside him at some grand feast, watching
the old courtiers as they pledge themselves
and their arms to the fair ladies whose knights
they bound themselves to be. The bright eyes
and rosy lips that graced the court of the
brave old monarch lives only in song and
story, but the old goblet flashes back the light
of the present century as clearly as though
just fresh from the lapidary. The appoint-
ments for the tables of royalty were neither
simple nor inexpensive in the times before
our own. Francis I., of France, counted
among his valued articles a salt-cellar, the de-
sign wrought from the fertile brain of Ben-
venuto Cellini.
	We go on through these wonderful rooms
till we come to the jewels of the imperial
family. We find that our republican educa-
tion is no bar to our enjoyment of crown
jewels. We confess to a positive satisfaction
in the contemplation of all these regal appoint-
ments. This Austrian regalia dates back to
the time of Rudolph II, and includes the
crown sceptre and imperial globe. They tell
their own story of individual power and force, 
differing widely from any our own continent
has ever known. The crown of the Empress
looks fresh and modern, having been re-set
within a few years. Diamonds of fabulous
value flash out their glittering rays as we go
on from case to case of these rich jewels. A
beautiful hat-clasp contains the wonderful
Florentine diamond, valued at about three
hundred thousand dollars. This belonged to
Charles the Bold, of Burgundy; it was found
by a peasant after the battle of Granson and
sold by him for less than a dollar. It is
probably that the merchant of Berne who
bought this royal gem was as well satisfied
with his share of the spoil as any of the actors
in the famous battle. A scarf contains the
grand cross of the Maria Theresa order, com-
posed of hundreds of diamonds clustering
around a large pink one. Rubies and eme-
ralds of the choicest kind are used in all sorts
of devices in these magnificent ornaments be-
longing to the imperial families. Many articles
are the decorations of different orders. One of
the Golden Fleece is made up with at least a
hundred and fifty brillians, the Frankfort dia-
mond with coronation robes which have playes
a grand part in the historical days of the past.
	The little silver cradle of the King of Rome.
still bright with its golden coating, is the most
pathetic thing we find in all this grand dis-
play. It stands empty and neglected in the
same oom where we saw the insignia of Napo-
leaon as King of Italy.
	Historical curiosities greet us at each step.
We sigh for longer days and fewer limitations
to our time. As we come upon the old horo-
scope of Wallenstein, we wonder if the talis-
man may not be able yet to work its spell. If
we could lay hold of one of those astrologers of


old, how persistently we would besiege him
till he should give us length of days and the
ability to comprehend the things about us.
	The storehouses of our memory are all in-
adequate to hold the wares offered by these
old empires for our consideration. The sabre
of Haroun al Raschid savors of romance and
daring deeds. In another small room, without
even a guard to keep watch over its treasures,
we find another case of relics that might well
make us stop and look down the ages. Charle-
magne rises out of the events of the past
which come crowding down upon our bewilder-
ed senses- This great, ambitious king strides
grandly before us. Here is his crown—iron-
faced and firm as when it rested upon his im-
perial brow after the siege at Pavia in 773.
Here is his stole, his girdle, his sword. Here
are his coronation robes and his sceptre; the
imperial globe which was never held by a
firmer grasp than when the mighty king put
his strong hand upon it. The present century
seems the one that is dim and far away as we
stand in a dazed condition. These famous
relics of the "Emperor of the West" were
found in his tomb at Aix La Chapelle. When
the vault was opened he was found sitting in
most regal state on a throne. A mightier des-
pot sat side by side with the imperial body.
Death alone had curbed the spirit of this
mighty warrior king. France had cause to
take great pride in this wonderful sovereign,
Lombardy to hate him, Italy, Spain, Germany
to fear him. Learning, art and science owe
much to his patronage. He was as extra-
ordinary as despotic. We seem to come almost
into his visible presence as we stand gazing at
the old crown.
	We are quite content, however, with our
own day as we shake off the illusions which
gather around us. There is another great
country beyond the sea where trade and
industry find a home, where art and science
are encouraged, where there is free thought
and free speech, liberty of conscience and room
for all who crave it. There are no old coro-
nation robes hanging on the walls of its
treasury; no crowns whose wearers have put
their iron heels on the hearts of its children.
Charlemagne's hour is over. A grander na-
tion has risen—a West which he never
dreamed of.
	The Prater is the grand park of the city,
where all visitors delight to drive. Grand
carriages of the nobility are daily the admira-
tion of the walking public. We hunt up the
old buildings frescoed on the outside, admire
the fountains and statues, roam through the
quaint sections of the place, and wish we had
weeks to spend within its walls. We could be
busy all the time; hunting up new sights and
old curiosities. When we turn from here it
will be with regret; but everywhere we leave
much unseen which we shall hunger and thirst
for in the days to come. We generally coax
ourselves off with the promise that "next time"
we shall do all these wonderful things which
we leave undone now. If the promise is never
to be quite fulfilled, we go away rather more
cheerful for our little delusion. If we had all
our lives to live over, we half suspect we might
after all leave out some things we would be
loth to do without. In the morning Vienna
will be a long way behind us. We have had
a royal feast within her gates. The banquet
has been both rich and rare. We are more
fortunate than the Romans of old; we turn
away before our appetite is wholly appeased.
	Ex.						RUTH RANDOM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HAVE you ever thought of it? The memory
of an eye is the most deathless of memories,
because there, if anywhere, you catch a 
glimpse of the visible soul as it sits by the
window.—D. G. Mitchell.


SECRET prayer must be the root for nourish-
ing all public prayer and service. "Apostasy
begins at the closet door," says Philip Henry.

	A conscience so lazy as to be prone to fears
of extra duty is certainly in itself very differ-
ent from the real, old, saintly kind which used
to be always inclined to overburden its owner
with duties.

	THERE is no danger that man will not ulti-
mately do man's work and woman woman's
work. But it will yet take the experience of many
emancipated generations to determine the
maximum limits of both; and after all, the
best part of all the work will be that which
both sexes do in common.—T. W. Higginson.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
                     ________
                     Z. C. M. I. 
        SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
  HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
      GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
                       	MENTS,
         CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
   PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL TAPERS, ALL 
  GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
     We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
            WW. JENNINGS, Supt. 

      HENRY DINWOODEY.
           FURNITURE,
          WALL PAPER,
            CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LlNOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUNS
      AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
     SALT LAKE CITY.
         DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
     Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
     Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City

       MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D. 
PHYSICIAN   and  SURGEON 
   Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of thd Deseret National Bank, and half a
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHIDREN
		KNITTING FACTORY,
Ca 1st W. St., Eet. 21 and 3d W. Next Door South of W.H. Hooper's.
Men’s Socks, Ladies’ and Childrens’ Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies and Childrens Hoods,
ete. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CARLINE C. RALEIIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 
________________________________________
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IS GODBE, PITTS & COS BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Resident
_____________________________________________
                    Special to the Ladies.
                            __________
                        AT TEASDEL’S
Will he found the latest styles and productions
                                   in
       LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODER1ES, 
            FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
            RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
            And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
      PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
                 and 4th East Streets.
                           _______
Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
            OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
                NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.
    Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.
_______________________________________
                      A LARGE STOCK 
     Of Home Made Trunks for Bale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent tor the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yams,	Wool Batting,
Shawls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,	Cassimers,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds,	Brushes, Etc, Etc.

CLASSES in MIDWIFERY
               DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT
     COMMENCES ANOTHER CLASS IN MID-
WIFERY, April 9th, in Office over Godbe,
Pitts & Co’s Drug Store, at 1 p.m. Lectures
three per week, for five months. Practial in-
struction and examinations by Drs. Anderson
and Benedict. Introductory lectures on general
anatomy and physiology of the whole system.
Manikin, plates and Instruments for Instruction.
		TUITION  $30.
            BOOKS  3       12. 
N.B.—Those desiring to join the class will
please send names in early, that books may be
ordered in time.
         For further particulars please write.
___________________________________
          F. AUERBACH & BRO.
                       --HAVE--
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos.124 & 126
            CALL AND EXAMINE
         Spring and Summer Goods.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 11.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1883.
No. 21.


﻿A LOVING TRIBUTE.
[Suggested by those kind Sisters who gave me a "Sur-
prise" party on my birthday, March 16th, 1883.]

Of friends!—What know I not of friends?
The blessed boon that Heaven sends!
How dear to me they've ever been
Throughout my life's meandering scene!
How dear to me have been their faces—
Their presence charmed, and hallowed places;
Like ancients in the olden time,
In every place I had a shrine!
An altar, where I often paid
Devotion at the shrine I made!

Of friends!—What know I not of friends?
Through them, a Heaven on me descends!
How rich they've made me all my life—
They've banished care—thay've banished strife,
They've made me feel each sorrow lighter,
Yes! made the sun himself look brighter!
No place to me was desert ground
If they were hovering around;
And when I heard the well known voice
It made my thrilling sould rejoice; 
And when I met the loving eye
All sorrow I could then defy!
And when I grasp'd the faithful hand
The living touch I could command,
Wherever they might chance to be
The gate of Heaven was to me!

What know I not of friendship's care,
When sickness I'd to take a share?
And e'en when death appeared to claim
The life I struggled to retain!
Though sad bereavement steeped my soul
In all its bitterest control!
But friendship's hand in PRIESTLY power,
Dispelled the darkness of that hour,
And I was healed, and I was blest,
And all my woes and wants redressed;
And garnered in my heart's recess
These names remain to cheer and bless.

And e'en to-day, my grateful eyes
Run over with a sweet "surprise!"
A host of friends have met to bless
Their Sister with a fond caress;
I see around a loving tribe,
And each with honey from their hive!
And viands sweet and rich—in fine
For epicures to sit and dine;
A "feast of reason, flow of soul,"
Shed o'er the scene a sweet control;
And every heart was full of love,
And every lip this truth did prove;
And each one rose, and every heart
Its prayers and wishes did impart;
And called for blessings on the head
Of her they had so richly fed.

But O! the dress! Ah! yes, the dress!
A fabric rich they brought to bless,
Presenting it with words of cheer,
Sweet words I know, but did not hear.
Surprise had stunned my listening ear!
Of friends!—What know I not of friends?
That blessed boon that Heaven sends,
And all these tributes they did bring
To shew their love for H. T. King.
						HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, March 16th, 1883.


﻿ONE WHO KNOWS.
   “The very nature of every virtuous  woman
revolts against polygamy and all its influ-
ences.” Senator Edmunds.
   I would like to ask the wise statesman, the
Hon. Mr. Edmunds, if he ever knew a black-
smith to regulate a watch just by seeing a
man look at it and put it in his pocket. That
would be just as consistent as this remark.
The ladies of Utah are free to judge, think,
choose and act, and would to God that every
woman understood the meaning of the word
virtue and was protected, as we are!  We
have perfect confidence in our husbands, and
they in us. If every senator and representa-
tive man in Washington, that had not kept
his marriage vows, were turned into statuary,
as Lot’s wife was into a pillar of salt,
for disobedience, would the halls of Con-
gress lack decoration? Gentlemen, if purity
of motives and deeds worthy the approbation of
the Gods is revolting, then are we to be judged
thus? If true and faithful, loving our sisters
as ourselves, and having untainted blood in
our veins for our children, knowing we are to
inherit the society of our husbands through
all eternity, if we are true women, and not
without, and vice versa, with our companions,
is this immoral? to hold sacred our mar-
riage relations, through slander, misrepre-
sented at home and abroad, but not forsaken
by God, or our husbands, remain faithful and
true; yes, true, happy, confiding wives. And
right here I entreat congressmen, all men and
women on earth to be virtuous, true to them-
selves, not double dealers, true to the laws of
good order and the Constitution, which all
Mormon men and women consider inspired of
God to protect, not hung on a swivel to face
policy and money at the sacrifice of justice.
Gentlemen and ladies, we ask no mercy, but
give us justice.
   The Jews said, we will not, and so say this
nation; as Mr. Edmunds was once told, he was
not fighting a little handful of people in the
mountains, but measuring arms with the
Almighty; perhaps he wishes the honor of a
Pharaoh, we are content to abide our time, for
all must receive the reward from whom they
serve.
   In referring to the very nature of woman
revolting against polygamy and its influence,
we would inquire, what does Mr. Edmunds
know of its influence, where it is understood
and practiced in the fear of God? Was not
David a man after God’s own  heart, and in
nothing did he displease the Lord except in
taking away the wife of Uriah.
   Gentlemen, learn what true happiness is by
honoring the laws of nature, and be honored
through all eternity because of obedience to
the celestial law of marriage. Act upon prin-
ciple, and make  duty a pleasure, and gather
around you a family of thirty or forty like a
patriarch, that your life may not be spent in
vain.
   I have heard more contention and quarrel-
ing in a family consisting of husband, wife
and two children, than I ever heard in the
family of Brigham Young in thirty years,
with fourteen wives and forty children.
   If purity, fidelity, honesty and integrity,
with hard labor and a clear conscience, is not
valuable, then tell me what is? This govern-
ment has listened to and acted from hearsay
and falsehood. Look at our Tabernacles, our
Temples and our homes, listen to our devo-
tions, search where you will for a “poor
house,” not one will you find; there are still
many counties in the Territory of Utah with
not a dramshop or a brothel; is this a disgrace
to a nation?
   We have been accused of not being a law-
abiding people; we will compare notes at any
time with our grand government.
   Mr. Black knows what is white and so do
we; God bless men that have stamina and ster-
ling integrity to open their eyes to the sun-
shine of truth, and all women who dare to be
truly virtuous, and heaven’s best blessing is a
true husband and good children; this is the in-
fluence of polygamy and what the God of
heaven has provided to protect virtue, ennoble
women, to elevate mankind. This is our
standard, Justice to all. Though Mr. Ed-
munds holds up his hands in holy horror at
the very thought of this condition of things,
we are sorry for him,— but we leave him and
all those who seek to oppress us, in the hands
of that God whose laws we have enlisted to
obey. 			ZINA D. H. YOUNG.


SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
		AND PATRIARCH.
			_______
	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
			_______
	I here produce a copy of the letter received
by President Brigham Young from Governor
Ford - dated April 8th, 1845, containing a
proof, indisputable, that the Prophet Joseph
Smith was the first to propose moving to this
western country, instead of Brigham Young,
as has been stated by Joseph Smith, Editor of
the Lamoni Herald and reputed by others, who
are equally in the dark in this, as well as in all
other matters pertaining to this Latter-day
work.
	“If you can get off by yourselves you may
enjoy peace, but surrounded by such neighbors,
I confess that I do not see the time when you
will be permitted to enjoy quiet. I was in-
formed by General Joseph Smith, last summer,
that he contemplated a removal west; and from
what I learned from him and others at that
time, I think if he had lived, he would have be-
gan to move in the matter before this time. I
would be willing to exert all my feeble abilities
and influence to further your views in this re-
spect if it was the wish of your people. I
would suggest a matter in confidence. Califor-
nia now offers a field for the prettiest enter-
prise that has been undertaken in modern
times. It is but sparsely inhabited, and by
none but the Indians, or imbecile Mexican
Spaniards. I have not inquired enough to
know how strong it is in men and means. But
this we know, that if conquered from Mexico,
that country is so physically weak and morally
distracted that she could never send a force
there to reconquer it. Why should it not be a
pretty operation for your people to go out there,
take possession of and conquer a portion of the
vacant country and establish an independent
government of your own, subject only to the
laws of nations?
	“You would remain there a long time before
you would be disturbed by the proximity of
other settlements.
	“If you conclude to do this, your design ought
not to be known, or  otherwise it would
become the duty of the United States to pre-
vent your emigration. If once you cross the
line of the United States territory, you
would be in no danger of being interfered
with.”
	The Twelve Apostles had then nearly ma-
tured their plans for the move (not only of the


Saints in North America but also those in
Great Britain) to these Rocky Mountains, and
the Governor's advice was therefore quite un-
necessary. They had received similar advice
from Senator Douglas, James Arlington Ben-
nett and others. About this time they ad-
dressed a petition to President James K. Polk,
laying before him the true condition of a poor
oppressed and long suffering people. But his
heart was as an adamant--he did not deign an
answer.
	I find many things mentioned in my father’s
journal which I remember as I read them, and
they bring to my mind other incidents which
had it not been for his record, would probably
have been buried in oblivion. I will copy a
few as they were written by his own hand in
1845. He says, "On the morning of the 18th
of June, I went to John Taylor's to read his-
tory. President Brigham Young, George A.
Smith, John Taylor and myself—Brother Ezra
Benson read for us. The same morning Phineas
Young and Charles Shumway returned home
from their Western mission. At four o'clock
they came in where the brethren were reading,
and we stopped to listen to a letter from
Brother Dunham, and they gave to us a his-
tory of their travels." "They have had some
difficulties, but all will work right in the end."
Next day he writes, "I and others of the Twelve
were sent for by Sister Jennetta Richards,
(Brother Willard's wife,) to meet there and
pray for her, as she felt that she could not live
long. We also prayed for my wife, who is
very sick--and offered up prayer for Bishop
Whitney, who has gone to St. Louis--that he
may be prospered. "The same day he writes,
"Brigham Young, George A. Smith and myself
went to the Temple to see how things were pro-
gressing." "The rafters were mostly on, all
things going well." "Returned home and
found Sister Whitney. She anointed my wife
and sang in tongues; I also sang and the Lord
blessed us.” “June the 20th, I again met with
my brethren to read history--were in that part
which describes the persecutions ﻿in Jackson Co.
Missouri." "We stopped reading at two o'clock
in the afternoon. I found my wife worse--sent
for Sister Whitney. We clothed ourselves ac-
cording to the order of the holy priesthood and
anointed and prayed for her. The Lord heard
us, for she was better and had a good night’s
rest. The Lord shall have the glory." "All is
quiet in our city."
	He speaks of feelings having arisen from
what William Smith had said on the stand the
previous Sabbath, that he and his connections
had been neglected, etc., which was false, and
he says, "This gives me sorrow, but the Lord
will cause all things to go right."
	"June 22nd, Bishop Whitney got home from
St. Louis." At four o'clock the same day,
William Smith was married by Brigham
Young.” “On the 25th, met with the police,
the Bishops and many others at the Masonic
Hall. William Smith was present and said he
was afraid of his life. He received a rebuke
from Brigham." We read that, "the wicked
flee when no man puruueth," which words ap-
plied to William Smith, and he justly deserved
that rebuke. In Joseph's life he was quarrel-
some and frequently had to be dealt with before
his brethren for unchristian-like conduct. He
became very wicked and unprincipled, and his
conduct towards Joseph was at times unbear-
able, but he exercised towards him all the
kindness and forbearance that was possible.
He was very deceitful and tried by his allure-
ments to lead away some of Joseph's young
wives by picturing to them the grand sights
to be seen, and the more pleasant and agreable
life that they could lead if they would accom-
pnay him to the Eastern cities. He had a
plurality of wives, but his first wife was an in-
valid and was then living in Philadelphia with
her little children. Bishop Whitney was in-
formed of his wicked course taken against
Joseph, but his counsel was to keep it from him,
as he had trouble enough already upon his
shoulders. He(William) was certainly an odd
one in that family--was very genteel, good
looking and capable of appearing in the most
refined modern society, like some others of the
kid-gloved gentility of these days, but if all
of his conduct had been exposed to Joseph, the
consequences might have been more serious.
He came from the East when hearing of his
brother's martyrdom, and the next day after
his arrival at Nauvoo, instead of coming to the
meeting, which was held by the road-side east
of the Temple, he rode flauntingly by in a fine
carriage dressed in deep mourning with none
but himself and driver. He could have taken
any other road as well, but it looked as though
he did it just for the purpose of creating a
sensation. He aspired to stand as the leader
and fully expected to take some of his brother’s
wives if not all. He afterward professed or
feigned repentance and humility before the
Twelve Apostles and the people. I had the
honor of the perusal of a long and eloquently
worded epistle written by him to one of Joseph’s
oung wives, telling not only his devotion to
her, but of a wonderful vision, or revelation
that he had received, concerning her and him-
self, picturing out her future state in glorious
colors. But I suppose her mind had not suffi-
ciently expanded or else she possessed too little
of the spiritual to appreciate such visions, es-
pecially from that quarter, even to deign a
reply, but cast his letter to the flames. His
poor suffering wife had passed away previous
to this and he thought it a flattering induce-
ment to offer a young lady the privilege of
standing first. But she knew his former his-
tory, being one of the number that he tried to
fascinate and lead away from his brother, the
Prophet, while he was  living. After al-
lowing her sufficient time to answer his epistle,
he called one morning, and I happened to be
present and heard him ask her for "that letter,"
when she coolly informed him that it had been
destroyed. His countenance, which had al-
ready become a shade or two darker with the
pent up wrath, (which he did not try to con-
ceal) grew darker still and the look he gave
her as he turned to leave resembled anything
but that of a Saint. What made his sins still
greater was that he tried to hide them under the
cloak- of religion, and in such there is no such
thing as repentance or remission of sins. He
soon after married a very pretty young girl,
and though the character she bore was not of
the best, she was good enough for him. I met
them both at a dinner given on the 6th of the
following August, at Brother John Benbow's,
who owned a large farm on the prairie. My
parents, with about fifty persons, were present.
William Smith's countenance that day plainly
bespoke the bitterness that was raging within.
It was said that he only married the girl for
spite, at all events they were not happy, and it
was only a short time before they separated.
His brethren labored with him and tried to do
him all the good they could, and my father
spoke truly, for William Smith was always
dissatisfied, otherwise the Twelve were one.
	June 27th, being one year from the day that
Joseph and Hyrum were killed in Carthage
jail, was set apart for fasting and prayer.
Father writes in his journal. "O Lord, I thank
Thy holy name, that Thou dost hear thy ser-
vants and have brought trouble upon those who
have spilt the blood of thy servants and per-
secuted thy Saints. Even now they are
dumb--that they can not do business, and are
thrown into confusion in answer to prayer, as
we have felt to plead with Thee, with uplifted
hands in token of our regard to Thee. I thank
Thee, O our Father, for Thou dost hear us in
all things when we are agreed, and this Thou
hast granted to Thy servants this day, and I
pray that Thy blessing and peace and prosper-
ity my rest upon all Thy Saints; even so
amen."
	Saturday June 28th, father wrote, “The old
stand in the grove west of the Temple was pre-
pared for holding meetings. The Twelve were
present. We spent most of the day at the
Temple.
“Sunday, 29th, meeting was held at the old
stand. The congregation was very large. It
seemed like old times when we used to hear
from Joseph and Hyrum. * * The day
passed off well and heaven's blessings were
with us. In the evening went and baptized
fifty-one persons.” He mentions the fourth of
July, and says, "Many of the Saints spent the
day riding and had bands of music, and amused
themselves in different ways. The steamer Di
Vernnon came up from St. Louis, some from
Quincy and other places for pleasure. There
were near one hundred and fifty who stopped
in our city and went all over it—were very
civil. All things passed off well. General
Demming and Sheriff Backenstos came to my
house and spent the evening."
			To be Continued.


W O M A N ’ S  E X P O N E N T .


WOMEN IN JOURNALISM.—The first daily
newspaper printed in the world was estab-
lished and edited by a woman—Elizabeth
Mallet, in London, 1702,-almost 200 years
ago. In her salutatory, she said she had
established a newspaper to "spare the public
half the impertinences which the ordinary
newspapers contain." Woman like, her paper
was reformatory.
   The first newspaper published in America,
of which we have any record, was in Massa-
chusetts. It was called the Massachusetts
Gazette and News-Letter. After the death of
the editor, the widow edited it in the most
spirited manner for two or three years. It
was the only paper that did not suspend
publication when Boston was besieged by the
British. The widow's name was Margaret
Craper.
   In 1772 Rhode Island issued its first news-
paper. It was owned and edited by Anna
Franklin. She and her two daughters did
the printing, and their servants worked the
printing press. History tells us that for her
quickness and correctness she was appointed
printer to the colony, supplying pamphlets,
etc., to the colonial officers. She also printed
an edition of the colonial laws of 340 pages.
   In 1776 Sarah Goddard printed a paper in
Newport, R. I., ably conducting it, afterward
associating with her John Carter. The firm was
announced Sarah Goddard & Co., taking the
partnership precedence, as was proper and
right.
   In 1772 Clementine Reid published a paper
in Virginia, favoring the colonial cause and
greatly offending the royalists; and two years
after another paper was started in the in-
terest of the crown, by Mrs. H. Boyle, borrow-
ing the name of Mrs. Reid's paper, which
was the Virginia Gazette, but which was
short lived. Both of the papers were pub-
lished in the town of Williamsburg. The
colonial paper was the first newspaper in
which the Declaration of Independence was
printed.
   In 1773 Elizabeth Timothy published and
edited a paper in Charleston, S. C. After the
revolution Annie Timothy became its editor,
and was appointed State printer, which posi-
tion she held for seventeen years. Mary
Crouch published a paper in Charleston about
the same time, in special opposition to the
stamp act. She afterward removed her paper
to Salem, Mass., and continued its publication
there for years after.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿DEDICATED TO SISTER ALDER

ON THE DEATH OF HER BELOVED DAUGHTER
				HELEN.

Yes!
In gazing on that form of wondrous charms
As in the casket it so peaceful lay,
So calm and chaste in the embrace of death,
Words most expressive leapt from out my lips
As though a voice within my heart endorsed
The beauty that lay passive there.—Beauty
In its highest, holiest, most unearthly sense,
In silent eloquence, was stamped thereon!
That girl so young, in unassuming youth,
Became at once transfigured as it were,
And all approached as with a silent awe!
How eloquent that silent, beauteous form
Spoke to each awe-struck gazer as they passed,
Telling the brevity of earthly life!
How frail the aspirations all are wont to feel!
Beauty was there that death alone can give;
It clothed with sanctity the sleeping form,
And all approached as they would bend before
A royal presence, in its robes of state!

Oh! mourning mother! stay thy falling tears!
Oh! sorrowing father, hush thy choking sobs!
Would’st thou recall her from the realms of bliss?
Would’st thou strip off the robe of Heaven?
Or tear the starry chaplet from her brow? 
And once more clothe her in habiliments of earth?
No, No! I hear you say, No, no, we would not.
Then, dear friends, stem now the tide of grief,
Oh! mourn no more for her who wears the robe,
The immaculate robe of the redeemed—
The starry crown of an immortal soul!
Think of her dwelling in eternal light,
Within the ineffable presence of her God,
And the divine association of her Savior’s love!
Of beings great and noble while on earth,
Who having nobly filled the mission given
Are now beatified within the smile of God!
Imagination fails to paint the scene,
But He, who viewed the ransomed throng,
And saw the glory of the Firstborn’s Church,
Has left by his inspired pen a vision
Michael Angelo would have loved to paint!
On meditations, such as these, let us dilate
Till we become with all their glory rife.
Feeling our spirit chastened and subdued,
And bending low respire, “Thy will be done.”
						Hannah T. King.
Salt Lake City, March 15th, 1883.


A VENERABLE WOMAN.
		PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.
				[Continued.]
	In the fall of 1840, Mrs. Buell moved from
her home in Missouri to Illinois and settled be-
tween Quincy and Nauvoo. During the time
she lived there, a period of between five and
six years, she made frequent journeys to
Nauvoo and visited among the Saints, being
particularly aquainted with Joseph and Hyrum,
with Mother Smith and family. Sister Pres-
endia, as we shall hereafter call her, became
more familiarly associated with the Prophet
and his teachings, which were attracting much
attention among the Saints and all sorts of
slanders imaginable were being circulated.
Truth is always counterfeited and every true
principle of science or religion introduced into
the world has been met by strong opposition
from the masses, generally the ignorant and
bigoted. In Nauvoo the teaching of the prin-
ciple of celestial marriage by Joseph spread
like wildfire, and all sorts of improbable and
impossible misrepresentations were noised
abroad. It is so strange that the Gospel having
been restored to the earth and the holy Priest-
hood bestowed upon the servants of God ac-
cording to the prophecies of Scripture, for in-
stance, Isaiah, Jeremiah and Malachi, that
the Lord should command his servants to fol-
low in the footsteps of Abraham, the father of
the faithful, and other ancient worthies with
whom He condescended to hold converse? To
me it seems only consistent with the dealings
of the Lord with his people from the com-
mencement of the world. The Lord's ways
are not as our ways, and man cannot judge the
Almighty.
	Joseph himself taught the principle of plural
marriage to Sister Presendia, and her heart was
humble, and her mind open to receive the
revelations of heaven. She knew Joseph to be
a man of God, and she had received many
manifestations in proof of this, and consequent-
ly when he explained to her clearly the knowl-
edge which he had obtained from the Lord,
she accepted the sealing ordinance with Joseph
as a sacred and holy confirmation. The trou-
bles and difficulties that arose afterwards, that
eventually resulted in the death of Joseph and
Hyrum, kept the Saints in a constant state of
anxiety. The sisters who had entered into
these covenants were in one sense separate and
apart from all others. Their minds were more
expanded, new light had burst in upon them,
and they were buoyed up by a spirit which
they scarcely understood, otherwise they could
never have borne the calumny and reproach
cast upon them, because of their having taken
upon themselves these solemn vows. No
tongue can describe, or pen portray the pecu-
liar situation that environed about these noble
self-sacrificing women, who through the provi-
dence of God helped to establish the principle
of plural celestial marriage. Those who speak
of the principle of a plurality of wives as de-
basing, or degrading, know nothing whatever
of the practice of it as it exists among the Lat-
ter-day Saints, and those who condemn these
sainted women who have taken upon them-
selves this cross, in all purity of heart and
motive of purpose, are as ignorant of their
lives and the reverence in which they hold
these sacred relations, as they are of what ex-
ists upon another planet, or they would never
dare upbraid and sneer as they do at those
whom God has called to take such an impor-
tant part in his great Latter-day work.
	The crisis came, when the Prophet and Pa-
triarch were foully murdered. How did if af-
fect the people, the Saints? They were plunged
into the depths of grief for the man of God they
had so loved, and the wives and the children of
these noble men, were sorrow stricken beyond
measure. Sister Presendia heard the dreadful
tidings and could not believe it true, but when
it was confirmed and she comprehended the
situation, she called upon the Lord in her
loneliness, and asked that the Holy Spirit
might comfort her in her extreme need. To
attempt the recital of the suffering and an-
guish of those who mourned for the Propht
and Patriarch, is impossible.
	The time came for the performance of
ceremonies and ordinances in the Nauvoo
Temple. Sister Presendia was some distance
away, but she was notified by her friends that
it would be her privilege to go into the Temple,
and in the language of Scripture straightway
she came, and availed herself of the opportuni-
ty.
	Hereafter we recognize her as the wife of the
renowned Apostle Heber C. Kimball. The
next great event in the history of this people
was the exodus from Nauvoo; and with this we
take up the thread of the narrative of this
distinguished woman, of whose life we are only
giving a brief sketch.
			To be Continued.


[Column 1]
	﻿THE CHARACTER OF LADY
			MACBETH.
			     _____
	In the character of Lady Macbeth, we find
the commingling of two sets of elements; one

[Column 2]
the combination of superior intellect, refine-
ment, high courage, womanly love and affec-
tion, indomitable will, power, and fidelity-
Contrasted with, antagonized, and finally over-
powered, by a baser set; foremost among
which, and predominating over all the others,
is mad ambition, in fact, the others are but
outgrowths of this one ruling power. Let us
examine this passion, and see under what
peculiar guise it is presented in the character
before us. The word ambition we generally
associate with an innate desire on the part of
its possessor to accomplish its own aggrandize-
ment, self, being the great central motive
power, or pivot, around which all other issues
revolve, and to which they are subservient.
But in Lady Macbeth we find that self is not
the basis or foundation of that vaulting ambi-
tion which transformed her into a thing of
evil, and caused her to violate not only the
most sacred claims of kindred and hospitality,
but also to lead Macbeth on to his destruction,
the one being on earth whom she had sought
to exalt. It was for him and not herself that
caused her to steep her heart in guilt, and
bathe her hand in blood, that little hand, that
"all the perfumes of Arabia could not after-
wards sweeten." It was for him that she be-
came the impersonation of evil passion; to
place within his hand the sceptre, and upon
his brow the imperial crown, she had sold her-
self to hell. Among the nobler qualities of
her mind and heart, we find high courage,
womanly love and sympathy, filial and paren-
tal affection; the two latter traits strikingly
exhibited where she says: "I have given suck
and know how tender it is to love the babe
that milks me," and the sentence, "Had he not
resembled my father as he slept," etc., occur-
ring as it does in the midst of a tumultuous
throng of evils, has been likened to the unex-
pected tender minor chord occurring in one of
Weber's or Beethoven's symphonies, and steal-
ing over the ear is heard amid the magnificent
crash of harmony, making the blood pause,
and filling the eyes with unbidden tears.
	We cannot look upon Lady Macbeth as a
monster of depravity, or a "masculine virago,"
but as a proud, noble, brilliant, intellectual
woman, who fell from her high pinnacle of
virtue through mistaken love, and the lack of
Christian influences. Had the circumstances
of her life been other than they were, she pos-
sessed elements of mind and heart which, pro-
perly directed, would have made her stand out
prominently among the noblest of woman-
kind.
	Black as is the crime which she ushers on
to a successful issue, we find by way of pal-
liation that she is not the sole originator of the
dreadful conception, for it springs within Mac-
beth's mind, before his lady is introduced; 'tis
true she takes a more active part in the crime
afterwards, but commentators on the play say
that it is due to her superiority of intellect,
rather than her love of blood, and her more
thorough executive ability, as compared with
that of her more timid husband, and had it
not been for her self-possession and courage,
they would have been discovered at the mur-
der of Duncan, and identified with it. It was
not altogether the pangs of conscience that
made Macbeth oblivious to the danger of his
situation, and the necessity of concealment, as
he stood with the bloody hands and dripping dag-
ger, in the open court, but a lack of that self
poise and dauntlessness that marked the supe-
rior mind of Lady Macbeth.
	After the commission of her first great
crime, we find her not a willing agent in other
deeds of blood, but devotedly engaged in sup-
porting the nervous weakness of her husband,
until that greatest of all  wrecks, aberration
of the mind, made her oblivious to all earthly
woes. In her sad life we read the story of "a
proud heart broken."			ZOE.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -		Editor.
Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
Salt Lake City Utah.
SAIT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1883.


ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

TO THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE
	CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER
	DAY SAINTS:
	Meetings will be held in the Large Tabernacle
in this city, on Thursday, April 5th, 1883, at 10
o'clock in the morning and 2 o'clock in the after-
noon, preparatory to the Annual Conference,
which will conmence on Friday, April 6th, at
10 o'clock in the morning, as per previous ad-
journment.
					JOHN TAYLOR,
					GEORGE Q. CANNON,
					JOSEPH F. SMITH,
	First Presidence of the Church of Jesus
		Crist of Latter-Day Saints.
	Salt Lake City,
			March 20th, 1883.


HOW LITTLE IS KNOW OF 
"MORMONS"

	It is truly surprising, when we consider the
boasted intelligence of the nineteenth century,
to find how little is really know of the "Mor-
mons."  People actually engage in what they
term studying the Mormon question, and solv-
ing the Mormon problem, without becoming
acquainted with it, except through hearsay.  In
conversing with strangers who pass through the
city, and spend a few hours, or perhaps a day at
most, one can readily comprehend the fact,
that, as far as the people, the institutions, and
the condition of the Territory is concerned, they
are as ignorant as of a foreign country and its
interests.
	The circumstances under which the "Mor-
mons" came into the Wilderness are misrepre-
sented, the desolate state in which the pioneers
found this valley, and the government they
sought to establish here, all these things, and
others of a similar nature, are told in various
ways, and elaborately colored.
	Considering this people belong to the civil-
ized races, and have been educated in the same
habits and customs, as well as schools, of those
who live on the other side the Rocky Moun-
tains, one cannot help wondering at these ab-
surdities.  The only thing that these anti-Mor-
mons are quite sure they do know, is that Mor-
mons have more than one wife, and consequent-
ly they are to them a race of men and women,
separate and apart from the rest of the world of
mankind.  It seems to be a settled fact with
them too, that the women cannot possibly have
minds of their own, or free agency, or they
would never submit to the social domestic rela-
tion signified by the unmeritorious term "poly-
gamy."
	This is all because they do not know, and will
not, or do not care to investigate.  There are no
women who have physically, mentally, morally,
and spiritually greater freedom to develop, than
the "Mormon" women.  The very genius of
"Mormonism" itself, gives women privileges
not acknowledged, and not yet granted in the
outside world.  It gives to every woman the op-
portunity of marriage;  does any other Church
in Christendom do this?  As a natural conse-
quence, no!  Women are in the majority in all
the Churches according to the statistics; then if
they marry, they must of necessity, a large
number of them at all events, marry out of
the Church, and that is undesirable for many
reasons; there cannot be perfect harmony, it
could not be a complete union, or blending to-
gether of heart and soul, which is the true
meaning of marriage.  In this respect then
Mormonism is far in advance.  Woman, too,
may have a choice, she is not obliged to accept
the first offer of marriage, lest there should
never be another opportunity, as thousands of
women do in the world, where according to
some of those self styled protectors of the
weaker sex, women have so much freedom and
attention. To enumerate all the superior advan-
tages given to women here, would take too
much time; but one thing we may say with all
propriety, and that is, that in the matter of pro-
gress, women have greater liberty, because they
are not, and need not be, tied down or restricted
to any of those strait-laces, iron bedstead rules,
that environ about on every hand the women of
the world. To be sure the suffragists have
opened the way considerably and made this
matter much easier for women than before, but
they have not yet attained, in the Church or in
the State, to the liberty enjoyed by these "Mor-
mon" wives and daughters for whom the out-
side world entertain such an abhorrence.
	Many of the chains worn by women are of
gold, to be sure, linked with jewels, and the bri-
dles with which they are so securely fastened
are of fine spun silk, yet they are oft times
galling in the extreme, yet these self-same
ladies scorn the women whose strength of char-
acter has helped them to rise superior to the
environments the world has for centuries past
held necessary for women, and declare them-
sleves free to think, to act, and to advance in
the scale of being, fearless of the ridicule and
opprobrium of fashion worshippers.
	There is no other Church that has such a per-
fect organization, including all within its fold.
And the organization of the women of the
Church is in itself a study.  The world has
nothing that compares with it in its harmony
and consistency throughout.  What is termed
the woman's rights movement is becoming
now a thorough system of organization, but it is
a long way behind in many particulars the or-
ganization of women in the "Mormon" Church.
That it is so little understood outside is due
mostly to the bitter prejudice against “Mor-
mon” women.  They cannot believe they have
any good in them, and look upon them as low,
degraded and unworthy of notice.  Were it
otherwise they might learn many truths that
would help them in the good work now being
carried on in the various societies founded for
advancement and support.  It is a great pity
that when strangers come to this city they do
not make the acquaintance of "Mormons" and
learn of matters from their stand-point; they
would then be much better able to judge and
to lecture or write, on "Mormon" topics.  If
there is nothing in Mormonism it certainly is
not worth so much talk and comment from the
newspapers, the platform and the pulpit.
	The principles advocated and practiced by
this people are of such a nature that they will
endure and gain ground notwithstanding preju-
dice, slander and misrepresentation, when those
who oppose them and seek to destroy and break
down their power will sink into insignificance
and oblivion.  They are the theories which, if
properly carried out in the lives of men and
women, will promote health and long life upon
the earth, strength of character and of intellect,
and produce a race endowed with higher attri-
butes and purer aspirations than any that exists
at the present time.


HOME AFFAIRS.
			_____
	WE have perused with much satisfaction the
pamphlet entitled “The Farmer's and Miner's
Manual,” recently published by Messers. Stay-
ner and Simmons, edited by Chas. W. Stayner.
It is clearly and forcibly written in a style that
cannot fail to be beneficial to those who are in-
terested in the laws pertaining to land matters
and mining claims. It will be to the interest of
those who are not well posted in the laws that
govern these matters to purchase this little
comprehensive work, for it is, multum in parvo.
The book is for sale at the office of Stayner and
Simmons. Price 25cts.

	ANOTHER lady graduate in medicine and sur-
gery. Mrs. Margaret C. Shipp had her diploma
awarded her at the Woman's Medical College in
Philadelphia, on the 15th of March ult. The
lady has been studying the science for the last
eight years, and during that time has given
lectures on these subjects in different parts of the
Territory. She has now returned home, full-
fledged with the title M. D. well-earned, and
prepared to enter upon the practice of her pro-
fession. Mrs. Shipp is a lady of culture, pleasing
and attractive in manner, and will no doubt
achieve success in a medical career. Utah has
now several talented woman physicians, and
others preparing themselves for this important
sphere of work.

	The Woman's Conference of this Stake of
Zion was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assem-
bly Rooms Friday and Saturday, March 9 and
0. The first day was devoted to the Relief
Society, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
Her Counselors, Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor and
Helen Mar Whitney were both present. Presi-
dent Eliza R. S. Smith and Counselor Zina D.
H. Young were also upon the platform, with
several other of the officers of the Relief Socie-
ty. The usual exercises were given, minutes
of the previous Conference read and reports
from the several branches in the Stake. Sister
Home and Sistereliza occupied the remainder
of the morning in practical instruction to the
Sisters, encouraging them in the performance of
the various duties of the organization. The
afternoon meeting was very interesting, the
speakers were spirited and touched upon mat-
ters of general interest. Sisters Z. D. H. Young,
S. M. Kimball, E. S. Taylor, H. M. Whitney,
P. Woodruff, E. R. S. Smith and M. I. Horne
occupied the time. The Deseret Hospital was
discussed, the silk interest, Dr. Barney's propo-
sition to give free instruction to the sisters who
are desirous of learning how to care for the sick,
and many other matters spiritual and temporal.
	Saturday morning, Conference of the Primary
Associations, Mrs. E. C. Clawson presiding.
The meeting was specially interesting, and
great improvement was manifested in the
several branches, through the reports of the
Presidents. Some very good singing from the
little folks.
	Afternoon, Y. L. M. I. A. Conference, Mrs.
Mary A. Freeze presiding. The reports were
very good. The speakers were Sisters M. A.
Freeze, Mattie Home, Sistereliza and M. I.,


Horne. These sisters exhorted the young
ladies to renewed diligence in the path of im-
provement, commended their labors in the past,
and blessed them for the efforts they had put
forth to bring others into the work. Confer-
ence adjourned for three months. Sung Doxolo-
gy. Prayer by L. G. Richards.
	We hope ere this that the ladies of Utah
have read Dr. E. S. Barney’s advertisement and
proposition to them, which was published in the
Deseret News.
	This being an exceptional opportunity, and
such a liberal offer, we trust an effort will be
made in this direction. It is something we
have long needed. We have visited the Dr’s.,
residence, and find she is making all preparation
to be ready, having faith that her proposition
will be accepted.
	Her rooms are neatly furnished, light and
pleasant, and well suited to the needs of the
student. She says she is anxious to distribute
the knowledge she has gained among the Saints,
and we doubt not she will make the instruction
useful and interesting.
	We hope that Presidents of Relief Societies will
take it upon themselves to make selections, and
wake up an interest, and if necessary aid those
that could not otherwise effect the desired object,
and in sickness they may have some one with
knowledge and skill, while at present many
wards and settlements have no one to refer
to in an emergency who has the requisite skill.
Sisters, consider the great need there is of
assisting in preserving and prolonging life. In
addition to the offer made in her advertisement,
Dr. Barney intends to have lectures from other
lady physicians, of acknowledged ability and ex-
perience. The Dr. says it will require ten days to
get the necessary books, and she hopes to be able
to commence the class in April.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL OF UTAH DELEGATES.
			   ______
	In the Senate of the United States, on Fri-
day, February 23rd, Senator Call presented a
memorial of Delegates from the Constitutional
Convention of Utah, which was referred to the
Committee on Territories and ordered to be
printed in the Congressional Record.
“To the Honorable Senators and Representa-
tives of the United States:
The undersigned respectfully and humbly
present this their petition and memorial as
follows, to wit:
We are citizens of Utah, authorized and
instructed by the people of that Territory to do
what is proper and possible for the preservation
of their rights and liberties.
	In their name we pray you to consider the
situation in which your legislation may place
them. We feel sure that you will at least hear
us, since our worst enemies do not pretend
that we have lost the right to petition for the
redress of our grievances.
	For certain reasons, elsewhere given, and
which need not now be repeated, we are entire-
ly satisfied that the act of March 22, 1882, was
an assumption of power not granted even to
Congress by the Constitution. We admit, how-
ever, that we are not the ultimate Judges of
that question. If you shall be convinced that
you, and not the Territorial government, have
jurisdiction to legislate on the subject of mar-
riage, divorce, and other matters of purely
private and local concern, and if you think it
proper to exercise that power without regard to
the nearly unanimous opinions of the people
affected by it, then we beseech you to modify
your law so that its penalties will be visited
upon those only who commit the prohibited
offense and are legally found guilty by a jury
impartially selected.

[Column 2]
	We pray you to repeal so much of the act of
March 22 as authorizes, or seems to authorize,
the disfranchisement of persons who are not
convicted, because it is a cruel punishment In-
flicted upon persons conclusively presumed to
be innocent.
	It is also hoped that the retroactive feature of
your law will be eliminated. No grosser viola-
tion of common justice could be committed
than a criminal law operating ex post facto.
	Respectfully but earnestly we protest against
the commission appointed under the act of
March 22. The people of the Territory had a
clear and unquestionable right to choose their
own local officers according to their own estab-
lished laws. Congress decreed that this right
should not be exercised except under the super-
vision of five persons to ba appointed by the
President. The commissioners, being appoint-
ed, undertook the duty but did not perform it
In consequence there could be no election with-
out a conflict with Congress, which we were
unwilling to bring on, however certain we were
of being in the right. There was no election,
and as a legal consequence, the incumbents of
the local offices held ovor agreeably to the stat-
ute in such case made and provided.
	But an attempt was made to punish the
people of the Territory for the default of the
commissioners by seizing the local offices and
putting the public money into the hands of the
Governor and his retainers. And this, we are
sorry to say, is asserted to be in accordance
with what is called the Hoar amendment, hast-
ily and inconsiderately stuck into the appro-
priation bill at the close of the last session. It
is clear to us, and must be to you upon reflec-
tion, that this amendment has not and was
not intended to have the effect claimed for It;
but if the courts of the Territory should give It
that construction all control of their own affairs
would be taken out of the people’s hands and
free government in the Territory would be at
an end. We submit to your candid judgment
whether the repeal of this amendment is not
duo to the character of Congress as well as to
the Territory of Utah. So, and so only, may
all pretence be taken away for the perpetration
of a huge political robbery.
The people of that Territory would be un-
faithful not only to their own rights and the
rights of their children, but to the cause of
liberty and justice everywhere, if they did not
remonstrate as earnestly as possibla against the
bill of pains and penalties reported by the Sen-
ate Judiciary committee. In open defiance of
the Constitution, it authorizes the capture and
imprisonment- of citizens, male and female,
known and admitted to be perfectly guiltless of
any offense. It violates the sanctities of the
family by compelling husband and wife lawful-
ly married and living together in conjugal har-
mony, to testify against one another. By a
legislative decree purely arbitrary, It disfran-
chises all female citizens, though their right to
the ballot is vested as clearly as that of the
men, and though it is not pretended that they
have done anything to forfeit it; the injustice
wopid be no greater to extend this disfranchise-
ment to the whole population, and probably is
expected to follow, either directly or indirectly.
The pending bill abolishes the election dis-
tricts for members of the Legislature, and if It
passes no election can be held unless a commis-
sion of Federal officers, known to be the bitter
enemies of popular government, .fahall rediatrlct
the Territory. This bill passed in its present
shape, and added to the hostile measures of the
last session, must almost necessarily result in
the destruction of the Territorial Legislature,
the seizure of the local offices, and the subjuga-
tion of the people to a state of ignomlnous
slavery,
Whatever may be the extent of the Juris-
diction over our local affairs which yon may
think It right to claim, we are safe in assuming
that no honorable man in or out of Congress
will stand up to defend measures forbidden, as
they are, by the express words of the Constllu-
tiou.
Nor can any excuse be found for them in the
antipathy which is professed by many, and
by some sincerely felt, for the doctrine of plu-
ral marriages. These penalties fall on the
whole population without reference to the per-
sonal guilt or innocence of individual.'. They
are stabs which roach the vitals of civil liberty
and do not touch polygamy at all.
We bring no railing accusations against our
enemies at home, who have labored to excite
animosity against us to break down our Terri-
torial government, and to rob us of the right to
manage our own affairs by agents of our own
choice. But we cannot conceal from you the
dread and terror with which v.e contemplate
the bare possibility of being placed under their
domination.
Possessed of despotic authority, with law In
their voice, with unrestrained power in their
hands, and a helpless people under their feet,
they would act after their kind and plunder us
without remorse. What chance of justice will
we have if we submit to their exactions? What
safety for our lives if we resist? With what
reason can we hope to escapo the fate of all
other communities placed in that unhappy
situation? Our case is even more forlorn in its
outlook than any that modern history records.
The men who are striving to become our mas-
ters claim the offices and funds of the Territory,
which are our undoubted property, In defiance
of law, justice, and the rights of self-govern-
ment secured to us by the Constitution. If
they succeed it would be mere madness to ex-
pect the smallest regard for our rights of private
property or personal liberty.
The undersigned were specially entrusted by
the convention which framedfor the people the
constitution under which they hope to be ad-
mitted as a State, to lay that instrument before
Congress and ask that proper action be taken
thereon. Inasmuch as our constitution Is fault-
leas and our population much larger than
that of some States already in the Union, we
venture to hope that our admission will not be
unreasonably delayed.
We implore you to take our case into your
consideration, and save us, as far as your sense
of justice will permit, from the great calamities
with which we are threatened.
And we will ever pray, etc.,
JOHN T. CAINE,
F. S. RICHARDS,
D. H. PEERY,
W. D. JOHNSON, JR.


.	" OBITUARY.
Death has made sad havoc in the little town of
Kanab; in the past three months. Many homes have
felt its icy touch, and many hearts have been left
desolate. The aged, the youth, the babe and the
young mother, have been ruthlessly torn from our
midst. It is peculiarly touching to see the fondly
expectant mother clasp her infant to her breast and
yield up her young life for that of her offspring.
	It is with regret that we record the death of two of
these young mothers.
	Nov. 5th, 1882, Elsie, wife of Joseph Hamblin and
daughter of Nephi and C. A. Johnson, departed this
life, three days after the birth of a son.
	She was born Nov. 5th, 1861, and consequently was
twenty-one the day she died. Although she was
young, she was a good Saint, a dutiful daughter, and
a loving wife and mother.
	From a child she was proverbial for her truthfulness,
she was a member of the Rollef Society; but having


two small children she could not attend as often as she
wished.
	During her sickness she repeatedly said, she wished
to go home, and told the nurse to have her babe
ready, for she would come for it in a few days.
Singular to say, the babe died three days after the
mother.
	A few hours before her departure, she said to her
husband, “Joseph, I am going home, you cannot come
with me now, but if you are a good boy you shall
come after.” With a smile, she gently fell asleep.
 Also, Dec. 21st, 1882, Fanny M., wife of W. T.
Stewart, and daughter of James A. and Mary J. Little,
died of puerperal fever. She was born in Salt Lake
City, May 3rd, 1862.
	Like her friend before her, she was anxious to go
home, and said to her mother, who was weeping.
Mother, why do you weep? I am not afraid to die; I
would rather live in eternity than here.” She was
good and beautiful, and loved by all who knew her.
She has left two sweet babes, as well as husband and
friends, to mourn her loss.
	Blessed consolation, to those who are left behind,
that these pure daughters and young mothers in Zion,
have gone to an eternal rest.
“Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord, for they
rest from their labors.”
						M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.
Kanab, March 2nd, 1883.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿IN MEMORIAM.

	Died, in this city, March 6th, 1883, of inflammation of
the lungs, Helen E., beloved daughter of George A. and
Lydia L. Alder, aged eighteen years, one month, and
seventeen days.
	A pure spirit has left us, one well prepared to dwell
in a holler sphere and among purer intelligences.
	Having been intimate with the family and being her
Sabbath School teacher for many years, I feel I can
speak advisedly in saying she was exemplary in all her
walks of life, also a member of the Young People’s As-
sociation (which was held at my house for more than
three years) I always found her prompt and willing to
perform anything she was requested to do. She was
modest in her manners and conversation, chaste in her
tastes, sensitive and delicate in her temperament, full
of filial affection to her parents, brothers and sisters,
and also most affectionate to her friends, myself in-
cluded. Ever willing and ready to make personal sac-
rifices to oblige others, especially those in advanced
life, to whom she was ever respectful. Always
thoughtful of her mother, and desiring to assist her in
her domestic duties. Not long ago she said to me, “I
should so love to attend Sabbath School, but I cannot
now, when I think how long mamma has done the
work, that all of us might attend Sabbath School.
Now I feel it is my turn.” She was very sensitive in
regard to her friends, and the way they felt towards
her. She ever reminded me of a delicate tea rose just
burst forth, and, oh! so sweet and fragrant, but open
the door and let the frost touch it, or expose it to the
too fierce rays of the sun, and it will droop, fall, and
die. The extremes of the chilling blast of winter, and
the burning heat of summer, affected her earthly taber-
nable; and so was her spirit chilled or brightened as the
breath of love and friendship rose or fell upon it. Her
natural disposition was cheerful, and she had implicit
confidence in the ordinances of our Church. She wished
to live, but her Father in Heaven desired her presence
in the serried ranks of the seraphic hosts, where she
now shines among the jewels of that glorious court.
	Shall we be so selfish as to mourn her exaltation by
which we lose her sweet society? No, we have dropt
tears of love upon her youthful bier, it was right and
just to do so. But now let us all, with heart and voice,
congratulate her, and say,
		“Joy, joy forever! thy task is done,
		The gates are passed and Heaven is won."
						JULIA CRUSE HOWE.
arch 10th, 1883.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
				______
	At our last choir practice the following preamble and
resolutions were unanimously adopted.
	Whereas, It has pleased an All-wise Providence to
call from our midst, by the hand of death, our beloved
friend and Sister, Therefore,.
Resolved, that we do recognize in the death of our


Sister, Mary Williams Dorlus, the loss of an able, effi-
cient and faithful member of the Ephraim Sabbath
Choir.
  Resolved, That we esteem her past, faithful labors
and devotion to duty, as worthy the fellowship and
emulation of us all.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved husband, father, mother, relatives
and friends, in the loss of a loving wife, kind and affec-
tionate daughter, and true friend.
Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the
records of the T. L. M. I. A. of Ephraim, Deseret News
and Woman’s Exponent.
			Yours Respectfully,	
				JAMES STEVENSON,
				HELEN E. ARMSTRONG,
				GEORGE JENSEN,
				J. E. CHRISTIANSEN.
		In behalf of the Ephraim Sabbath Choir.
March 17th, 1883.


﻿Died, at Ephraim, March 16th, 1883, of palsy, after
five days hard sickness, Mary Williams, wife of C. C. N.
Dorious, and daughter of Steven and Emma Williams.
	Deceased was born January 2nd, 1860, at Ephraim.
She died as she lived, a true and faithful Latter-day
Saint, and her early departure from us cast a gloom
over the people.						COM.


R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.
HYRUM.	
	The Primary Association of Hyrum held
their annual meeting, March l6th. The meet-
ing house was well filled. Quite a number of
visitors were present. On the stand were Presi-
dent Lucy Wilson, Jane E. Molen, President
of Stake, Christena Johnson and Frances
Stephens, Counselors of the Relief Society. Of
the brethren, Bishop Simpson Molen, David
Osborne and Alma Benson. Sister Lucy Wil-
son presiding. Prayer by Brother D. Osborne,
Singing. Roll called. Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved. Reports were then read
and accepted.
	Exercises. Lecture from Parley P. Pratt,
Milia Corbett; Recitation, Hannah Iverson;
Song, Joseph Wintle; Recitation, Clara Fellef-
son, entitled, “The Purest Pearl;” Dialogue
by Ella Stephens and Harriet Shaw, “Primary
Meeting;” Song, Sarah Hanson; Recitation,
“Cold Water,” by three little girls; Recitation,
Thomas Fellefson; Song, Emma Hanson and
Eva Unswortk.
	President Wilson made a  few remarks,
wished to do her duty at all times, and teach
the children the ways of life and salvation.
Sister Johnson was the next speaker; she spoke
encouragingly to the children, said there was a
great improvement in the Association. Sister
Stephens spoke a few words on the good that
was being done in teaching the children the
principles of truth, and preparing their young
minds for usefulness in the Kingdom. Sister
Molen spoke very interestingly to the children.
Bishop Molen said, “I regret there are not
more boys belonging to the Association; “said
the boys who attend the Primary are the best
boys, we ought not to drink liquors nor use to-
bacco,but should keep the “Word of Wisdom.”
	The Primary Association also gave an enter-
tainment in February. The exercises consisted
of songs and recitations, selected from the
Primary Speaker. We had a good time; all
present were pleased with the entertainment.
The proceeds were $15. We gave $7.20 to the
missionaries, and the remainder was used for
the Primary.
	Our meetings are interesting, and much
credit is due to the President and those asso-
ciated with her. Ever praying for the welfare
of Zion, and the success of the Exponent.
Alice TJnsworth,
Corresponding Secretary.

[column 2]
OGDEN, WEBER STAKE.
	The Relief Societies of Weber Stake of Zion
held their Quarterly Conference on Thursday,
March 8th, 1883, in the Ogden Tabernacle.
On the stand were President Jane S. Richards,
Counselors Hattie Brown and Sarah I. Her-
rick, and Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina
D. H. Young, Eliza Hall, also Presidents of
branch Societies, several Bishops and leading
Elders. After the usual exercises of singing
and prayer, the reading of the minutes and re-
ports, etc., President Jane S. Richards made a
few opening remarks, felt pleased to see so
many of the brothers and sisters out to meet-
ing. Felt sure the Lord would bless and pour
his Spirit upon them; was grateful and thank-
ful to our Father in Heaven, for his goodness
unto us as a people. Prayed that all would
strive to keep faithful and true to their reli-
gion, remember the poor and needy, comfort
those whom we see who are in trouble or dis-
tress, for that is what these societies are organ-
ized for, and in blessing or helping others
wo certainly bless ourselves. Asked God to
be with each and every one of us.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith addressed the
meeting. She spoke first on the subject of
baptism, and how a real Saint of God felt
when this holy ordinance was performed; re-
fered briefly to the paying of tithing; thought
all should attend to this duty, even little chil-
dren should be taught this principle, no matter
whether we have much or little. The Lord is
very particular in small things; we know this
by reading the Bible. Let us also strive to be
particular in all little matters pertaining to
this life; by so doing we are preparing for our
future existence, which is something well worth
living for here. Spoke on the Sacrament of
the Lord's Supper, and the necessity of partak
ing of it with a pure heart before the Lord.
She dwelt some time on the subject of training
and educating the young and rising genera-
- tion, especially the girls; thought they should
have a good kitchen education, and that they
would then be good housewives, be good for
something, besides simply to drum a few tunes
on an organ or piano; the education of our
girls must be in everything that is ennobling to
womankind. Hoped all would be diligent in
attending to their duties, no matter how small
they might appear.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young hoped our minds
would be illuminated, to quicken our under-
standing, that we might prepare here for the
life to come. Advised the sisters to read good
books, to gain light and intelligence. Thought
that all we learned here, and every victory we
attain in the flesh, would promote our advance-,
ment hereafter, when we leave these frail
tabernacles, and go home to Father and Mother.
She spoke also on the subject of physiology
and health; thought the mothers of the day
should try and educate a race who might have
room to breathe. Let us promise even in their
cradle, that their hearts shall not be pinioned.
as in a vice, nor their spines bent like a bow,
nor their ribs bent into the liver. We must
teach in the nursery that the body is the tem-
ple of the Holy Ghost. We must leave no,
place in the minds of our little ones for lunatic
sentiment, that the minds healthful action and
the integrity of the organs on which it operates
are secondary to the vanities of external decora-
tion. If they have received from their cradle
a sound mind and a sound body, convince the
child that it is accountable for both. How shall,
the mother answer for it, in whose hand the soul
of her child is laid, if she suffers fashion to
cover it, melting the lines that wisdom penciled
there, till what heaven would have polished for
itself, loses the fair impression, and becomes
like common earth? Thought we should study
deeply, that we need not through ignorance in-
terfere with those laws on which the organiza-
tion of our children depends, rendered precious


by being the shrine of an undying spirit.  We
must not only pray for the welfare of the souls
of our children, but seek the good of its com-
panion, who walks with it to the gate of the 
grave, and rushes again to its embrace on the
morning of the resurrection.  Both Sisters
Snow and Zina dwelt long on the above sub-
ject.  I cannot begin to describe in language
as heart felt as they spoke.  It is hoped that
all who heard them will remember their words.
They gave much valuable instruction on a
variety of subjects.
	Sisters Brown and Herrick, and Bishops
McQuarrie and Critchlow,  also made some
timely and interesting remarks,  after which
the meeting was adjourned for three months,
with singing and benediction.
				MONTA HARRIS,
					Secretary Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SLANDER AND BACKBITING.

	You may think that I have chosen an odd
subject for my essay, but I think it is one that
is almost exhaustless, at least the evil results of
it are.
	We all, as you know, have our failings,  or
weak points, as they may be called; and slander
is a failing that is common to almost every one
of us.  Slang is a habit that injures us, but
slander not only injures us but those of whom
we are speaking. If any person has injured us,
let us not speak evil of that person, for the
purpose of making enemies for her, for in this
we may fail and only make enemies for our-
selves.  I never injured a person in my life but
what I was sorry for it afterwards, and would
gladly have recalled that injury; so it must be
with those who injure me; their consciences
will reprove them, which is punishment enough,
without being slandered by me,  which only
makes the breach between us wider, and mak-
ing enemies for her, but gain no friends for my-
self
	We should try to guard our conversation and
if we have any thing to say about a friend or
even a stranger, let it be good and not evil.
We should avoid speaking evil reports of an-
other; we cannot gain friends by talking evil,
therefore, as friendship is essential to happiness,
we must guard our conversation, and not forget
this saying of our Savior: “Blessed are the
peacemakers for they shall be called the chil-
dren of God."
	Social conversation is largely made up of
what is called scandal; it would be difficult to
find a talkative group of either sex, who could
spend an hour together without evil speech of
somebody.  It is far better to sit dumb than to
open our lips to speak evil of any one. We
should practice the golden rule, “Do unto
others as you would have others do unto you.”
When we have anything but a good word to
say of a person let us say it to the person con-
cerned, that he or she may have a chance to
defend him or herself.
	Happy are the few who avoid slander,  tale-
bearing,  and spreading evil reports. They
merit the approbation of the wise and good;
and happy would it be for the community at
large if this number could be increased.
We have it in our power to encourage or
discourage altogether this propensity to slander;
and as we are often the sufferer by the indul-
gence of this unprincipled conduct it is our duty
to discourage it.
	Do not therefore let our lips unclose to utter
anything that will injure another, nor do not
let us listen to any one who would fill our ears
with the failings or follies of another; and thus
we can do our part toward banishing from so-
ciety this pest of social life, slander.
	I have no doubt that while I have been
reading this, many of you have thought that
I preach what I do not practice. I do not


doubt but that I do, but we can take advice
from a fool, if that advice is good, without
partaking of his foolishness.
					ELLA DALLAS.


WOMAN’S VOICE.
	I noticed in the Exponent, a letter from
Ohio, by Mrs. Scott, which has caused me to
reflect considerable.  I have watched with
interest the papers, for the lady’s letters, as
also the answers by our sisters, and feel deeply
impressed to add my testimony.  That perad-
venture, out of the many, something may be
gleaned that will strike conviction sufficient to
inspire faith in her heart, and cause her to
implicitly believe that our Heavenly Father
is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever;
that He will hear and answer our humble
prayers, if we ask in faith, believing, but it is
by obedience to the commandments of God,
that we gain the “all abiding faith.” Dear
lady, you say you would give anything to
possess the abiding faith that so many of the
older professing Christians have.  I gather
from reading your letters, that you believe
there is a God; and that you have faith in
Him, or you would not have cried unto him in
your distress.  But you lack the all abiding
faith which only comes through obedience to
the law of God; then our faith merges into a
certainty. When we look around and view
the mighty works of Nature, the heavens
above, with its millions of stars, the sun, the
moon, and behold the revolutions of the same,
we are obliged to acknowledge a supreme
power.
	Then what is our duty?  It is, to find out
what our Heavenly Father requires of his
children, in order to bring them into a near-
ness with Him, that we may gain a knowledge
of Him.
	You will find, by reading the Scriptures,
what God requires of his children, in order
that they may come to a knowledge of Him.
He says: “Repent and be baptized and wash
away your sins.” The Lord, in giving his
commission to his disciples, says, “Go ye into
all the world, and preach the Gospel; he that
believeth and is baptized shall be saved.”
Mark xvi, 15, 16.  Also Peter, on the day
of Pentecost, called on the people, “to repent,
and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ,
for the remission of sins, and then they should
receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.” Hence
you see, that our Heavenly Father has provid-
ed a way, by which we can gain a knowledge
of Him.  He also says, you shall know of the
doctrine, whether it be of God or man.  By
obedience to these laws you have the promise,
of not only a knowledge of the doctrine, but a
knowledge of God, and the things of God;
and by the spirit of inspiration, given through
the gift of the Holy Ghost, the power to see
into the future, and to understand the work-
ings of our Heavenly Father with the child-
ren of men.
	By obedience to these first laws, or princi-
ples, you will be entitled to all the blessings of
the Gospel; to see visions; to dream dreams; to
have your sick healed by the power of God;
and “eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither
hath it entered the heart of any man, the
things which God hath prepared for them that
love him.”
	And our Father says: “He that loveth me,
will keep my commandments.”
	The Lord has greatly blessed you, in pre-
serving the lives of your children, and you
felt to call upon the unknown God in your
hour of trial.  I will bear testimony to you,
in the name of Jesus Christ, that if you will
obey the commandments of your Heavenly
Father, with an honest heart, that you will
not feel to say an “unknown God,” but that
you will gain a knowledge of God, and of his
Son, Jesus Christ; that you will be enabled to
go to Him, as you would to your earthly
father, in confidence and faith, knowing that
He would hear and answer your prayers; and
your mind will be enlightened; your under-
standing quickened; you will be drawn into a
nearness with God, and your soul will find
rest.  And you will not “get into the mud,”
but you will find “safe footing,” and true hap-
piness and satisfaction in this life.  Let me,
as a friend, beg that you will not procrastinate,
when your soul's salvation is at stake: if you
feel that the principles of Mormonism are
true, let no earthly consideration deter you
from obeying the same, as it is written, “that
the Spirit of God will not always strive with
the children of men.” And our Saviour says,
“he that will not forsake all, for His sake, is
not worthy of Him.” He also says, “if ye
love me ye will keep my commandments.”
	Praying the Lord will enlighten your mind,
strengthen your understanding,  and cause
you to see the light revealed in these last days,
for the salvation of this generation,  I sub-
scribe myself,	
		Your friend and sister,
				S. A. FULLMER.
Castle Dale, Emery Co., Utah, March 8th, 1883


RESTORATION OF THE GOSPEL.
			________
Dear Mrs. Scott:
	I am as pleased to hear from you as though
I had met an old friend. I had been wonder-
ing what had become of you, and if you had
forgotten where we lived. I perceive by your
letter that the hand of affliction has been upon
your children, and that in answer to your
prayers they have been healed. The Lord
may have an object in this; He knows that
your heart is turned towards His people, but
preadventure your name is dearer to you than
the approbation of your Heavenly Father.
Weigh this matter over, my sister. He hath
shown kindness to you in the hour of trial, He
may expect something in return; He is a good
paymaster, be not afraid to serve Him, He will
not turn you away empty. You say in your
letter that you would give anything for the
faith the ancient children possessed. Faith
comes by hearing the word of God. Now my
dear sister, you have had a great many testi-
monies borne to you by the handmaidens of the
Lord, and that in humility and , sincerity;
these may stand against you in the day of
judgment. It is said that the Spirit of God
shall not always strive with man. And inas-
much as the Lord himself has condescended to
come down in our day and bring His Son with
Him and introduce Him to the Prophet Joseph
Smith, then an unlearned youth in his early
teens, you and I, and all who have heard the
sound of the Everlasting Gospel, must
stand accountable before heaven. When
Joseph went into the Woods and asked the
Father to show him which of the sects of the
day was right, the powers of darkness came
upon him in so much that he could not speak
or move, and he supposed he would be destroyed.
Then he saw a light descending gradually until
it reached the tops of the trees and supposed
they would be consumed; but instead thereof
two personages appeared, whose glory was
brighter than the noon-day sun. And one,
pointing to the other, said “This is my beloved
Son, hear Him.” The Lord told Joseph that
none of the churches of the day were His, and
that they had a form of godliness but denied
the power thereof. Joseph received visits from
many heavenly beings, he received all the keys
and powers of the Gospel of the Son of God,
and that from the hands of those who held
them in the days of the Savior, but were killed


for the testimony they bore of Him. Who was
so fit to deliver the keys of baptism for the re-
mission of sins, as John the Baptist, who ad-
ministered that ordinance to the Son of God?
Who was so fit to deliver the keys of the
gathering dispensation as Moses, who gath-
ered ancient Israel.
	If God could walk and talk with Abraham,
and if Sarai his wife could hasten to make un-
leavened bread, and Abraham commanded his
servants to kill a calf and hasten to dress it
that his friends might partake of it, for you
will remember that God declared Abraham his
friend, is there anything unreasonable in His
coming down in our day? is the world not
wicked enough to need a reform? does He love
us less than when He sent his beloved Son to
die for us? On one occasion after his resurec-
tion He appeared to his disciples as they were
fishing by the water side; at first they did not
know him, but when they had recognized him
He tenderly asked, “Children, have ye any
meat?” then turning they beheld a fire kindled,
and fish prepared for them. It would seem
that although his home was in the courts of
glory, yet the love that burned in his bosom
for his brethren caused him still to linger near
them. If He could eclipse his glory and
minister to his disciples in former days, has He
not the same will and power to-day? has not
the world been fed on husks long enough? Are
we not a blessed people, having received the
truth fresh from the courts of heaven; not the
old musty opinions of men, but the “living
truth,” brought by messengers sent from the
presence of God.
	The work we are engaged in is of God; can
man overthrow it? no! a thousand times, no!
Do we fear the machinations of man? no! we
scorn the very name of fear! Men may oppress
and afflict us, and take our lives; but we are in
the hands of God, and He will cause all things
to work for our good. That He will give us
strength to serve him all our days is the most
that we ask.
		Yours most respectfully,
							M. L. M.
	Salt Lake City, March 11th, 1883.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The woman who invented the submarine
telegraph received but $10,000 for that which
brings Europe within speaking distance.

THE Unity Club will give one of their artis-
tic and brilliant entertainments at the theatre
on Monday evening, April 9th, in favor of the
Deseret Hospital. The object is entirely be-
venolent. An able committee of ladies are
busily engaged in the preparations assisted by
Bishop H. B. Clawson.

 THE lectures given in this city by Phil
Robinson, Esq., on his experience as a special
war correspondent were very entertaining.
His letters, telegrams and writings are bril-
liant and shrewd. His articles upon the
Mormon question have been exceedingly fair
though humorously written. Undoubtly he
is a genius, at any rate he is genial and spark-
ling.
 MISS Julia Thomas who came to this city
recently from New York City for her health,
has decided to remain during the spring.
She has quite a large class in elocution at the
Octagon and intends giving a series of lectures
on Physical Elocution and kindred topics.
Miss Thomas is a highly cultured lady, pleas-
ing in her address and will doubtless win many
friends during her sojourn here. The lady is
also a newspaper correspondent, traveling with
passes from the press.
 THERE is nothing in God’s word that
teaches us the inferiority of woman, and she
is the equal of man. I do not see why it is
more inappropriate for a woman to leave the


kitchen and needle to apply her talents to
higher planes, than for man to abandon the
labor of sawing wood and drawing water and
engage in more dignified employment. The
useful life is the healthy life, and any useful
employment is elevating. Life is serious, and
it ought to be industrious; idleness is a re-
proach to any one. That which makes indus-
try useful must be sought for; and industry, to
he useful, must be systematic.—Rev. Howard
Crosby.

	Men in Ireland often get elected to Parlia-
ment while they are in prison, while in this
country, if one half of the reports are true,
men are elected to Congress who ought to be
in prison.


[Column 1]
	ES	LISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

			Z. C. M. I.﻿
		SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
			MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
		WW. JENNINGS, Supt.

(Picture of building.)

		HENRY DINWOODEY.
			FURNITURE,
			WALL PAPER,
			CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
		AND WINDOW CORNICES.
	1238
238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
			SALT LAKE CITY.

			DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

			[Column 2]
		MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
	PHYSICIAN and SURGEON.
Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
	of the Deseret National Bank, and half a
		block north, west side of the street.
		SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

			KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W.H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
	Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
		ete. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
			CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
		19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

		MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
	OFFICE ON GOBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
	Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
		Special Attention given to Diseases of the
		EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

			Special to the Ladies.

			AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
				in
	LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
		FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
			RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
		And an elegant assorment of
			DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
			fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

			ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
		PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
			and 4th East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
		OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the the
		NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
	Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

			A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Buildings; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linsoys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

		CLASSES in MIDWIFERY

		DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT
COMMENCES ANOTHER CLASS IN MID-
	WIFERY, April 9th, in Office over Godbe,
Pitts & Co's Drug Store, at 1 p.m. Lectures
three per week, for five months. Practial in-
struction and examinations by Drs. Anderson
and Benedict. Introductory lectures on general
anatomy and physiology of the whole system.
Manikin, plates and instruments for instruction.

	TUITION,			$30.
	BOOKS, 3			12.

	N.B.— Those desiring to join the class will
please send names in early, that books may be
ordered in time.
	For further particulars please write.

		F. AUERBACH & BRO.
				HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, HOS. 124 & 126
		CALL AND EXAMINE
		Spring and Summer Goods.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Eights of the Women of Zion, and the Eights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 11.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1883.	No.	22.


A GIFT.
		______
Sweet souled and faithful one,
To-day I have no other
Dear gift, thee to bestow upon,
Than this—God bless my mother!

And with it, these fair flowers,
Emblems of peace and beauty,
Hoping they’ll cheer some lonely hours,
Of waiting and of duty.

A year ago—O how
Are earthly pleasures riven !
Father was with us then, but now, 
He sings God’s praise in heaven.

Never will be complete
Our peace and joys—O never !
Till in that holy, safe retreat,	
No kindred tics will sever.

But there, O. blissful hours !
When perfoct family chains,
Unite through Jesus’ love and powers,
And joy eternal reigns !
April 3rd, 1883. 					Lula.


LIFE’S LESSON.
Wouldst thou learn from Life a lesson,
	Learn’d but slowly and by few?
Wouldst thou know from Death’s dominion,
	How to win the Ever-new?
Then thy soul prepare for trial,
	Bare thy shoulder to the rod,
School thy mind for self-denial,
	Learn to love the Lord thy God.

Build no shrine to earthly idol,
	Lest there  come a shattering day,
Leveling to the dust thine altars,
	Driving all thy hopes away.
Pleasure's tree may tempt thee sorely,
	Golden apples grace the sod,
Touch them not!--they turn to ashes--
	Thou shalt love the Lord thy God.

I have gazed on beauteous woman,
	With a fond, adoring eye;
I have stood where Mammon's altars
	Rolled their incense toward the sky;
I have quaff'd the wine of Pleasure,
	Heard the winsome notes of Fame,
Armed with nature's gift and heaven's,
	Fought and toiled for honored name.

I have seen proud Mammon's towers
	Dashed to atoms by a breath;
I have lived to see the setting
	Of the sun of Love in death;
I have drank the dregs of sorrow,
	I have kissed the chastening rod,
I have learned, if Name be lasting,
	I must love the Lord my God.

What is wealth, that man should worship
	Dust from when his vileness came?
More than help-meet, lovely woman--
	Source and destiny the same?
What is earth, with all its glory?
	Earth shall answer: "Ichabod!"
Seek that kingdom all-including,
	Worship One--the Lord thy God.
London, March, 1883				O.F. Whitney.


[For the Woman’s Exponent.]
	WILD FLOWERS OF DESERET,

Tired of Winter’s chilling breath,
Wishing for Summer, thinking of death;
For I was weary, the sick-room dreary,
	O, so lonely and sad,
I longed for Spring flowers and sun-lit hours.
	And song-birds to make me glad.
I turned from the window’s busy scene,
The earth cold sheeted in icy sheen,


And the falling snow, to the warmth and glow
	Of the blazing firelight,
And at random took from the shelf a book-;
	My gloom soon changed to delight.

The words seemed traced by a magic wand,
The pen been held by a fairy hand;
Else how could they banish my gloom, how vanish
	So quickly the pain and regret?
The air in the room seemed filled with perfume
	Of “Wild Flowers of Deseret.”	

“Leonardo Da Vinci” first I read,
Sighing to think of the lovers—dead,
Then laughed right out at “A Lost Thought,”—
	And the laughing did me good;
For by the time I had finished the rhyme
	I felt in a happy mood.

“Grandfather,” “Grandmother,” and then
“My Heart and I,” and “Thoughts Within,”
Like sacred music rang, till “Polito Slang”
	Again woke the merry mood,
I cannot attest which pleased me the best,
	Each and all were so very good.

Ah, nothing is better in lonely hours,
Than this sweet cluster of Deseret Flowers;
Culled from the mountains, gathered near fountains.
	Fragrant with faith and love;
Giving cheer to this life of wearisome strife.
And pointing to heaven above.
Ohio, March 20th, 1833.              EMILY SCOTT.


THE YOUTH OF ZION.
				____
	It is evening, and while quietly thinking of 
the past, present, and the future, my mind es-
pecially dwells on the youth of Zion, male and
female, and wonder what they are doing at the
present time. Some may say, what buisness is it
of yours? Well, I know how mine are engaged,
and I think it would be well if all mothers
knew how their sons and daughters were em-
ployed; for verily this is a time for us to ear-
nestly watch our young people, and preserve
them from being enticed and overcome by the
evil one, and the temptations that exist, not
only in this city, but so far as I can learn, in
the various settlements. O! my young brethren
and sisters, flee from the evil as you would
from the poison of a snake; yea avoid the very
appearance of evil; take the advice and coun-
sel of those who have had more experience in
the world than you; think of the many privi-
leges you enjoy by being in this Church and
Kingdom, and the opportunities and induce-
ments held out to you, for gaining knowledge
which will fit and prepare you to fill honorable
positions in this life, and enjoy endless lives in
the worlds to come. O! ye daughters of Zion,
why will ye spend the precious time given to
you in frivolity, which I am sorry to say so
many do? Remember you are wasting the
moments that you should be spending in gain-
ing knowledge as to how you can best prepare
yourself for that high and noble purpose for
which you were created even to bring forth sons
and daughters, whose spirits were created by
our Father in Heaven, and have been reserved
to come forth in this dispensation, and you will
be held accountable for the manner in which
you train them.
	Can an impure spring bring forth pure water?
Nay, verily, and it is just as impossible for a
mother to teach her children the principles of
truth, unless she practices the same herself.
But some may say, I don’t know that Mormon-
ism is true, I have not had a testimony that
the work called the Gospel of Jesus Christ has
been restored upon the earth; if these be your
feelings, then rest no longer in this uncertain
state of mind; ask the Lord in humility of
heart, by earnest prayer, to open the eyes of your
mind to see and understand, and know for
yourself; and if you will do so, you will not be
long without a testimony of its truth, and that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. Again,
there are many who possess a knowledge of its
truth, and are in the enjoyment of the blessings
of the Gospel. "They are those who take every
opportunity which they have to attend meet-
ings, read good books, and in every possible
way gain knowledge for the position of wife
and mother. These will be among the wise
virgins, who when the Bridegroom cometh, will
have their lamps trimmed and burning, whilst
on the contrary, those who have neglected to
improve their present opportunities, will find
themselves unprepared, it will be to late to get
oil, and they cannot borrow, therefore they will
not be permitted to enter into the Marriage
Supper of the Lamb.” These things, my
young sisters, are not to be trifled with. Then
seek while young for that wisdom which is of
far more worth than all the splendor or fleeting
vanities of this life; be virtuous and retiring
in your demeanor, let your daily walk and
conduct be circumspect, that you may not give
cause to any one to think lightly of you, for
verily a wise man will certainly look for and
admire a woman who is discreet and modest in
all her movements, and who is endeavoring to
improve in all that is good and praiseworthy.
That this may be the aim of all the daughters
of Zion, is the prayer of your humble servant.
	February 19th, 1883.			E.R.C.


SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
	MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
		AND PATRIARCH.
			---------------
	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
			_____
	In justice to the wives who were sealed to
William Smith I will here say, that they were
pure and noble women, and they had supposed
him to be a righteous man. The Lord took
the first one, and the others, finding out his
true character, soon left him. After the young
wife left he married again. I understood her
to be a sister of his first wife’s. But she, like
him, was void of the spirit of this Gospel; and
she must also have been blind to his faults, or
to put the most charitable construction, it
might have been for the sake of her sister’s
children. None of us are capable of passing
judgment upon one another. That, we should
leave to Him who will soon come to judge
both the living and the dead.
	One of the most interesting incidents within
my recollection was the laying of the capstone
on the south-east corner of the Temple. This
was on Saturday morning, May 24th, 1845.
The description of it is accurately given by
one of the Apostles, who, with the rest, came
out from their secret retreat long enough to
perform this ceremony, when they again re-
turned to their hiding places.
	The Apostle wrote:  "The singers sang their
sweetest notes, and their voices thrilled the
hearts of the assemblage; the music of the
band, which played on the occasion, never
sounded so charming; and when President
Young placed the stone in position, and said:
The last stone is now laid upon the Temple,
and I pray the Almighty, in the name of
Jesus, to defend us in this place, and sustain
us until the Temple is finished and we have all


[Column 1]
﻿got our endowments.’ And all the congrega-
tion shouted, Hosanna! Hosanna! Hosanna,
to God and the Lamb, amen! amen! and amen,
and repeated these words the second and third
time, the spirit of God descended upon the peo-
ple, gladness filled every heart, and tears
of joy coursed down many cheeks. The words
of praise were uttered in earnestness and fervor;
it was a relief to many to be able to give ex-
pression to the feelings with which their hearts
were overcharged. Altogether the scene was a
very impressive one, and we doubt not that
the angels looked upon it and rejoiced.”
	“So let it be,” said President Young, con-
cluding the ceremonies, “this is the seventh
day of the week, or the Jewish Sabbath. It is
the day on which the Almighty finished his
work and rested from his labors. We have
finished the walls of the Temple, and may rest
to-day from our labors.”
	A great amount of sickness prevailed dur-
ing the summer months. The Apostles and
their brethren were in the habit of meeting
together every evening, and sometimes oftener,
at Brother  Willard Richard's house, to unite
their faith in the holy order of the Priesthood
in behalf of Israel.
	They also had to labor with their hands.
My father worked at his house all the time
that he could possibly get. July 7th he wrote,
“Twelve men came to work on my house, six of
them were masons. Much work was done.
*	*	I went to W. Richard’s to read history
in company with Brigham Young and George
A. Smith. An Italian brother Joseph Toronto
(now of this city), came there and gave up
all he had, which was $2,600.
	“Tuesday, 8th. Fourteen men came to work
on my house. 	*	*	Went with Brigham
Young and Willard Richards to the Temple.
Had council with the trustees. Gave the $2,600
to the Bishop. Visited some sick in the evening.”
	My mother’s babe was very sick at this time,
which fact father mentions in his journal as
being a source of anxiety and sorrow to wit-
ness his suffering. Two successive days some
of his brethren came in to join him in prayer
for him in the holy order. “Sister Jane
(Uncle Joseph Young’s wife) and Sister Whit-
ney were present and spent much’ time with us
to minister to our babe.”
	“On the morning of the 9th of July,” he
says, “I was sent for by Brother Willard Rich-
ards to administer to his wife who appeared to
be dying. About ten o’clock I went again.
Brother George A. Smith and his father,
(John Smith) Levi Richards and John Taylor
were present. We anointed and prayed for
her alter the holy order and she died in about
half an hour. She (as is well known) was one
of my father’s earliest converts in England.
I will here mention one or two incidents,
though this and much more has been published
in his history, concerning her. She was
the daughter of a Mr. Richards, a Presby-
terian minister; and when father first met her
she was visiting a family in Preston with
whom he was acquainted. As soon as they
were introduced she entered into a conversa-
tion with him on the subject of the Gospel.
He found her a very intelligent lady and very
anxious to hear and understand the doctrines
of the true Gospel. She went to hear him
preach that evening and the following, and
then she was fully convinced of the truth and
sent for him and expressed her desire to be
baptized, which request he cheerfully complied
with, and confirmed her at the water’s edge.
And as an illustration of his prophetic charac-
ter, the first time he met Brother Willard
Richards he exclaimed, “Willard, I have bap-
tized your wife to-day.” He writes in his jour-
nal, that Sister Jeannette Richards was buried
at six in the afternoon of the 11th.
	“On the evening of the 9th,” he says, “the
Bishops made a feast at the mansion." Broth-

[Column 2]
er John Pack had charge of the house.
Joseph’s family having moved back into the
White House, nearer the river. Father says,
“I went to John Pack’s to wait upon the
Smith family as the Bishops made a feast.
About one hundred persons present. All
things passed off well.
	“Thursday, July 10th. The Saints met at
the stand at ten o’clock in the morning and
gave alms to the poor. I spoke, also Brigham
Young, George A. Smith, John E. Page and
Orson Pratt. Adjourned at two in the after-
noon, as the heat was so intense. A great
many are sick.”
	After the meeting of fasting and prayer,
father says, “I met with my brethren in the
evening and prayed for rain.” And on the
13th he wrote, “On Sunday morning it began
to rain very hard—have had a beautiful
shower. This was in answer to our prayers.
The Lord be praised for His goodness.” He
wrote the day previous that his wife, Sarah
Peeke, was very sick at Brother Stephen Win-
chester’s, and he sat up with her most of the
night. The evening of the 16th, after witness-
ing the death of Brother William Gheen, who
died at 7 o’clock in the evening, father took
Sarah and Sister Winchester to the river and
baptized them for their health. He was pay-
ing them for the board of his wife and two
daughters, whom he had adopted. Brother
and Sister Winchester and their family, if they
had been our nearest kin, could not have
thought more of one another than we had done
from the time that we were neighbors in Kirt-
land, Ohio and in Missouri.
	“Brother William Gheen,” father says, “was
buried on the evening of the 17th, at 6 o’clock.
Most of the Twelve were present.” Brother
Gheen and family were among the Saints who
came from Pennsylvania. He had given two
of his daughters (Anna and Amanda) to my
father as wives, and did not consider it a
dishonor to be thus connected with him, but
quite the reverse. They have each borne him
a numerous family. And though Anna has
left us to join him and thousands of loved ones
beyond “this vale of tears,” her name will
ever live in the hearts of countless numbers
besides the many who are connected with her
by family ties.
	For five successive days father wrote in his
journal that his time was spent working on his
house, visiting the sick, in council, and a va-
riety of other duties. “Saturday, 26th,” he
says, “I visited many sick and attended coun-
cil. We nominated several officers for our
August election. All goes well, and the Lord
is on our side.” Sunday he mentions going to
meeting with his wife and daughter Helen.
“Brothers George Miller and Amasa Lyman
spoke a few words upon the Nauvoo House,
then Brigham Young spoke.” Most of his
time on the following Monday, Tuesday and
Wednesday was spent visiting the sick; and he
speaks of a funeral that he attended with Brig-
ham Young, and speaks of them reading his-
tory and going on the Temple. The house
of the Lord was well on towards its completion,
And they could truly say that this was one of
the results of faith with works. These things may
look strangely to those who are unacquainted
with the principles of our faith and the great
work which we have been engaged in for over
fifty years, and especially that our people should
continue working at the Nauvoo House and
Temple, and at the same time preparing to
leave them to the mercy of a set of sacrile-
gious mobocrats to demolish. I think that this
should be a convincing proof (at least) of the
sincerity and honesty of their motives.
Nothing could daunt their spirits; but if they
had not enjoyed something superior to any
man-made religion they could never have
been supported under all those sorrowful and
trying scenes, It was through the united faith

(Column 3)
and prayers of the faithful few that we were
permitted to remain there long enough to finish
that Temple, that they might be endowed with
the blessings which the Lord had promised
them, and for which they cheerfully gave their
mite and labored faithfully to finish the house
which the Lord had commanded to be built.
Words cannot express the gratitude that I feel.
for being counted worthy to have place among
the ones of whom the Lord has made a “pecu-
liar people,” which is the only Church ever es-
tablished upon the earth since the one we read
of in the days of Christ, who believe and ac-
cept the whole of the Gospel as taught in the
ancient Scriptures, instead of choosing that
portion only which agrees with our peculiar
ideas and notions. The ones who do this are
blind indeed.
	If Christ is truly our pattern, and He had to
submit to bear all manner of crosses and sink
below all things, that He might rise above all
things, how are we to become joint heirs with
Him unless we have a similar experience in
this life? This people have proven their wil-
lingness to submit to be persecuted and hated
of all men for righteousness’ sake; and where
is there another people who have manifested
such true Christian patience, and faith enough
to trust in an unseen hand under all circum-
stances and still believe in and rely upon those
promises made by our Savior, who also com-
manded that we should become one in all
things, and said, “Unless ye are one ye are not
mine.” And because we are striving to obey
this command and every other Christian and
God-like principle, that we may be saved and
have part with Him in that Celestial glory
prepared for the faithful and pure in heart of
all nations, and that they may hear the same
glad tidings of great joy and be gathered with
us into the fold of Christ, making sacrifice of
our idols and rejoicing even in the midst of
our sorrows, when we part with our beloved
brethren, husbands, fathers and sons, who are
going forth in the service of our Master to
save the souls of men, that they may also be
partakers of this joy which is unspeakable and
that life-giving power which has ever brought
comfort and cheer to the humble heart and is
free to all who will seek for it; and because we
have sought to become of one heart and one
mind, we have ever been looked upon with a
jealous eye, and hated by the world, who refuse
to hear and understand the truth, but will mis-
judge us and all our motives. Union is power;
and this is the great bug-bear, and because they
cannot break up and destroy it, they consider
us a dangerous rival, and in their madness cry
polygamy as the only plausible excuse for break-
ing up and destroying this power;
	They do not understand the character and
the unwavering integrity of an honest Latter-
day Saint; but we can well afford to be chari-
table, for we know what is in store for them,
and many of us have drank deep enough of
the bitter cup of adversity to know how to feel
for our fellow creatures, and I fervently pray
for those who are deceived in consequence of
the great prejudice which is in the world, be-
cause of the awful lies which have been manu-
factured and set afloat, for effect, by the wicked
in our midst; and our foes are more to be pitied
than we are. They certainly have met with
poor success so far, and feel rather chagrined
at the present time. And Longfellow says, “If
we could read the secret history of our enemies
we should find in each man’s life sorrow and
suffering enough to disarm all hostility.”
	Supposing they should oblige us to leave
here, it would be doing for themselves a more
sorry job than when they drove us from the
United States, and if they were wise they
would leave us alone; for it has long since
been proven that we are like a mustard stalk,
which, if disturbed, will only multiply the
more.		To be Continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WO﻿MAN'S EXPONENT.


HONOR TO PARENTS.

"Honor thy father and thy mother that thy days may be
long in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee."

If thou with angry words would strike,
Or striking wound another;
O never let such venomed dart
Descend upon thy mother.

Remember all the days gone by,
When thou wert in her keeping,
When gazing on her love-lit eye,
Or on her bosom sleeping.

She gave thee of her life and heart,
And blessed the day that bore thee;
In love she ever bore her part,
And softly guarded o’er thee.

When helpless to her hand you clung,
Her warm heart fondly beating,
Upon your gentlest accents hung,
Its tenderness repeating.

But now to stalwart manhood grown,
Such scenes no more reverting,
Beware of words like arrows flown,
For who can tell their hurting.

When feeble stops yet bear her on,	
Toward life’s other border,
Still let the love she bears her son,
some balm in life afford her.

Let not thy tongue speak idle words,
Or thoughts to grieve or pain her;
But cheer her heart if lone or sad,
While you may yet retain her.

For soon her weary steps will pass
Beyond life’s busy portal,
And earth will hold one spirit less,
And heaven hold one immortal.

And then in all the coming years
That	hold	thy manhood’s glory,
You’ll see no more her smiles or tears,
Or listen to her story.
						MARY.


CLIMBING UP.
I am trying to climb up higher;
	The ladder of truth and light
Is pointing to God and heaven,
	And reaching beyond my sight.

Trying to climb up the ladder;
	Only one step at a time,
With Self climbing closer than ever;
	The ladder steeper to climb.

I tried to leave Self at the bottom.
	And take only Truth for a guide;
But then when I make my best efforts,
	I often find Self by my side.

If I could see over the ladder,	
	Or how many steps to the top;
If I knew that I never should falter,
	Or lose my foothold and drop,

I should be more sure of my climbing,
	But this I never can know;
I must go on trying and striving,
	Be my progress ever so slow.

I think I can see bending over,
	The face of the Father above;
He beckons, and whispers “Come hither,
	I’ll save thee by infinite love."

How gracious, how precious His promise,
	I trust Him, he never will fail;
If I only have strength to continue,
	I think I will surely prevail.

So many are climbing up with me,
	We’ll lend each other a hand
When we come to the steepest places,
	And do the best that we can.

We will lead the young and the tender,
	Put out a hand to the old,
As we climb up the shining ladder,
	The ladder brighter than gold.
					ESTHER H. BENNION
February 17th, 1883.


A TRIBUTE
		TO HANNAH T. KING.
Once more, dear muse, I pray thee, come to me,
And tune thy lyre, and let thy music flow,
In praise of her, whose soothing melody
Hath lightened many a heavy load of woe.

Her themes are not the deeds of mighty men—
The heroes of the crimson battle-fields— 
She sings of those whose lowly lives have been
Crowned with the glory that all goodness yields.

She sings of those whom poverty and care,
And all the changing evils of their lot,
Have sought in vain their weary feet to tear
From that sweet rest they have so dearly bought.

She sings of those whose gentle lives are given
To deeds of mercy and to words of peace;
O, may she sing, when life’s frail bands are riven,
With those whose songs of joy shall never cease.
							SILAS SELLER.


“A BEAUTIFUL REFLECTION.”

   It cannot be that earth is man’s only abiding
place. It cannot be that our life is a bubble,
cast up by the ocean of eternity, to float a few
moments on its waves, and then sink into
nothingness. Else why is it that the high and
glorious aspirations, which leap like angels
from the temple of our heart, are forever wan-
dering about unsatisfied? Why is it that the
rainbow and the cloud come over us with a
beauty that is not of earth, and then pass off
and leave us to muse upon their faded loveli-
ness? Why is it that the stars hold “their festi-
val around the midnight throne,” and set
above the grasp of our limited faculties, forever
mocking us with their unapproachable glory?
And finally, why is it that the bright forms of
human beauty are presented to our view, and
then taken from us—leaving the thousand
streams of our affections to flow back in Alpine
torrents upon our hearts? We are born for a
higher destiny than that of earth. There is a
realm where the rainbow never fades, where
the stars will spread out before us like islands
that slumber on the ocean, and where the
beautiful beings, which here pass before us like
shadows, will stay in our presence forever.
							TRUTH.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.

Laurel, Franklin Co., Indiana,
March 28th, 1883.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Having read your paper, sent me by an
Elder of your Church, who happened to be in
this section of country preaching, whom my
husband invited home with him to stay over
night, from a meeting held in this place in
October last, viz., S. R. Marks, I admit my
mind has been much enlightened and I must
say that I admire the tone of your paper, and
confess that it has done me much good. I
have always heard so much evil of your peo-
ple, that I was like many others, rather preju-
auced against your religion, but I am happy to
say through the preaching of Elder Marks and
reading of your paper, that prejudice is entirely
removed from my mind.
	I was always taught to believe that our sex
were very much abused, and kept in abject
slavery among the “Mormons,” but I am
pleased to learn from Elder Marks, and by
reading your paper, that it is the reverse; for I
find that your people are now fighting with the
arm of the law, and the word of truth, for the
rights of women; while those who have been
crying slavery, are the ones who are trying to
enslave you.
	I am not of your faith, but I must confess
it is Scriptural, and it must triumph over the
false systems of to-day, and I hope that all


those who fight against the liberty of your peo-
ple will come to shame and dismay; for liberty
is guaranteed to all by our glorious Constitu-
tion, and belongs to Utah’s people as much as
any in this, or any other section of our common
country, and should be enjoyed by its citizens
in common with ours.
	Wishing the greatest success for your valu-
able paper, and your triumph over the enemies
of liberty,
		I remain	respectfully yours,	
MRS. JOHN LEWIS JOHNSON.


NOTES AND NEWS.
The graduating class of the Chicago
Woman’s Medical College numbered eighteen
this year.

	Miss Susan B. Anthony reached England
safely on March 3rd. Her address is “Ameri-
can Exchange, 449 Strand, London, England."

	One hundred and seventy colleges in the
United States practically believe in co-educa-
tion.

	After grave deliberation Columbia College
decides to adopt the next thing to, opening her
doors to women students—an annex.

	Mrs. Lorreta Brownlow, of East Paw Paw,
Ills., has patented, a simple and convenient
machine for crushing and straining fruit for
making jellies.

	Anna K. Hawley, of Delhi, Louisiana, has
patented a button that can be readily attached
to garments without sewing and readily re-
moved without injury.

	The invention of the cotton gin, which
revolutionized the industries of the world was
due to a woman, though the patent was taken
out by a man.

	The woman's department of the coming in-
stitute fair at Boston has organized, with Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe, president, Mrs. S. E. B. Chan-
ning, secretary. and Abby W. May, treasurer.

	A co-operative store and woman’s labor
exchange has been organized for the benefit of
the working women of Washington City.
They keep on hand all kinds of fancy goods
and bric-a-brac; all kinds of sewing and fancy
work is made to order at short notice; and help
supplied for all kinds of labor, such as sewing,
sales-ladies, clerks, copying, and good domestic
help for housework. It is in charge of Mrs.
M. A. Butler, 516 Eleventh street, N. W.
Washington, D. C.


SISTER POLLY STEIN GAM.

   Sister Stringam is well known to the Latter-
day Saints as one of its oldest members and
her many friends will be glad to know of her
health and prosperity. Her birthday was cele-
brated at her home in Holden, Millard Co., on
Tuesday, April 3rd, when she completed her
80th year. A number of her family connec-
tions, of whom there were four of her children,
twenty-one grand children and eight great
grand children, called to see her. Besides
these a large number of personal friends were
in the company. The venerable lady was the
recipient of many loving congratulations, ac-
companied by tokens of affection in the shape
of presents. In the morning she had been
feeling somewhat feeble, but tno troupe of lov-
ing ones with their pleasant greetings quite
revived her aged heart and made her feel
much stronger. Sister Stringam was associa-
ted with the Church in the days of Kirtland,
and has remained steadfast and true.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	.	.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
				   Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,		
							Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1883.


FIFTY-THIRD ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Church, held
in this city, commencing with preliminary
meetings on Thursday, April 5th, and the regu-
lar Conference commencing April 6th, and con-
tinuing over Sunday, was in our opinion the
largest and grandest assembly of the Latter-day
Saints that ever convened at any time in the
history of the Church. The weather, part of
the time, was not warm enough to admit of
opening the large Tabernacle, and the meetings
were necessarily held in the Assembly Hall, and
thousands of people could not gain admittance,
but most of the time the immense Tabernacle
was open and well filled. On Sunday it was
crowded to its utmost capacity, and many hun-
dreds could not get in at all.
	There has been a general feeling of satisfaction
with the people, an appreciation of the great
blessings enjoyed through the providences of
God, and a desire manifested by the Saints to
persevere in the path of duty, to grow rich in
faith and excel in good works, keeping the com-
mandments of God and rendering obedience to
his laws, and trusting in Him for deliverance
from those who oppose his work upon the 
earth.
	The brethren who addressed the people
seemed filled with the spirit of their calling in
the priesthood and the power of God rested upon
them, and the immense congregations heard-and
felt the influence. The preaching was by the
Twelve Apostles and First Presidency of the
Church, and certainly was impressive and power-
ful. On the last afternoon of the Conference
President Taylor spoke of business matters and
gave his reasons why financial statements were
not submitted to the Conference, which was
satisfactory, and a vote was taken on the matter,
that proved unanimous. President Taylor oc-
cupied the remainder of the afternoon, speaking
with great power and grandeur. He referred
the people to the fact of their almost marvelous
deliverance, and called on the congregation for
an audible acknowledgement of the hand of
God, in delivering his people from the hands of
their enemies. When all that grand congrega-
tion responded to the "Amen" feelingly uttered by
the President; the impression was thrilling and
touched every heart, for every Latter-day Saint
could feel that this weak expression of gratitude
was only a feeble recognition of the manifes-
tation of the mighty power that can turn and
overturn nations and kingdoms at his will.
   To those who have eyes to see and hearts to
understand, it must be apparent that there is a
power with this people that the world cannot
understand or comprehend. Who would have
thought, except a Latter-day Saint, that so little
harm would have been effected, by the passage
of the Edmunds bill? And yet the facts are be-
fore the people, Zion continues to grow and in-


crease, the Gospel is being preached in every
land, and the honest-hearted gathered home to
the mountains. Temples are being erected to
the Most High, where the Saints can perform a
work for the living and the dead, that Israel may
be redeemed and all things prepared for the time
when the lamb and the lion shall lie down to-
gether, when Satan shall no longer have power
to afflict those who serve the living and true
God, and peace shall reign in the hearts of all
men and over all the earth.


﻿CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.

	The Constitutional Convention met pursuant
to adjournment at 2 p.m. April 10th in the City
Hall, Hon. Joseph F. Smith in the chair. The
roll was called and it was found there was a
quorum present. The chaplain offered prayer.
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
	Hon. D. H. Wells, chairman of the committee
on statistics and other essential matter, reported
that a document had been prepared, which he
submitted for the approval of the convention.
It was read by the secretary, received and adopt-
ed by the convention, and 1,000 copies ordered to
be printed for distribution.
	Hon. John T. Caine then presented a report
of the delegates, accompanied by the memorial
which had been presented in both houses of
Congress, and published in the Congressional
Record; these documents were also read by the
secretary, and a motion made and carried to
have them printed and published with the re-
port of the committee on statistics.
	A vote of thanks was given to the Washing-
ton delegation, and they were highly compli-
mented on the able paper preparod as a memo-
rial or a petition to Congress.
	Hon. F. S. Richards, in behalf of the delega-
tion, made a very happy and appropriate res-
ponse to the compliment tendered the delegates,
and recounted a few of the difficulties under
which they labored to bring the matter before
Congress at its last session.
	In the report of the progress of the committee
by the Hon. John T. Caine, the fact of the
death of Hon. Wm. H. Hooper, chairman of
the delegation, was alluded to. This reminded
the president of the vacancy and he made a
suggestion to the convention, that they take
the matter into consideration. One or two
members offered motions and others amend-
ments to the motions; but it was finally decided
that as the committee on nominations previous-
ly appointed in convention assembled, had not
been discharged, this committee should be pre-
pared with a nomination to fill the vacancy re-
ferred to at the next meeting of the conven-
tion. Carried.
	A motion made by Hon. Hosea Stout, that
when the convention adjourn it be until the
9th of October next at 10 o’clock in the morn-
ing, prevailed.
	Hon. D. H. Wells made some very sensible
remarks upon the political situation of Utah,
the constitutional rights of the people, their
heritage of religious liberty guaranteed by the
constitution, and the attempts of some of the
members of Congress to pass unconstitutional
and aggressive laws to oppress a free people
and bring them into bondage; he spoke of the
attempt to annul the woman’s suffrage act;
to disfranchise every class of citizens they pos-
sibly could in order to further the schemes of
some men who desire to obtain possession of
the offices of the Territory.
	Hon. John T. Caine made a few explanations
of matters of public interest that had not been
quite understood in regard to men and measures,
and which it was necessary should be made
clear in connection with what had been spoken.


﻿Hon F, S. Richards added a few words and
made some positive statements on the subjects
before the convention. Minutes were called for,
read, and ordered to be printed.
   The convention then adjourned until October
9th, at 10 a.m.


ARTISTIC ENTERTAINMENT.

   The Unity Club entertainment given in the
Theatre Monday evening, April 9th, was an
unqualified success. The programme had been
arranged with great care, and the members of
the club and other performers were diligent in
their preparations beforehand and they were well
repaid for their labor in the appreciation of their
efforts by the general public. The ladies of the
Unity Club are possessed of artistic, dramatic and
musical talent, taste, tact and executive ability
which enables them to carry out an entertain-
ment with but very little outside help. Bishop
H. B. Clawson has been specially interested in
helping the club, partly from a genuine love and
taste for the drama and stage, and also from the
goodness of his heart and a desire to aid the
sick and unfortunate. On the last occasion of
the benefit of the Deseret Hospital he was ma-
terially aided by Henry McEwan, Esq., who has
in days gone by been much accustomed to the
theatre and familiar with all details of the
mechanical work. The programme of the Unity
Club was one which could scarcely fail to draw
and certainly evinced taste of a high order.
The music was the best that the city affords,
and the singing was from some of the sweetest
songsters in these mountain vales, Miss Agnes
Olsen, Miss Nellie Druce, Mrs. S. E. Langford,
Mrs. Maggie Hull and Mrs. Edith Clawson
Knowlton. The piano solo by Master Joseph
McIntyre deserves special mention on his own
account and that of his teacher. Messrs. Care-
less, Carrington and Clive rendered their music
in the most approved and pleasing style. The
tableaux were all attractive and beautiful, fore-
most among them being four seasons, represent-
ed by Lutie Thatcher, Spring; Louie Wells,
Summer; Dalla Cummings, Autumn; and Clara
Felt, Winter. Their costumes were exquisite.
   The costumes for representation of character
in the tableaux were exquisitely arranged and
everything denoted cultivation of a high order.
Among the tableaux of a historical character
were Amy Robsart, groups of Statuary, Boadicea,
Evangeline and Joan of Arc, Cornelia, mother
of the Gracchi, Children, Early at the Cross,
Niobe and children, The Tomb Revisited, Othel-
lo and Desdemona, Faust’s vision of Margue-
rite, Execution of Lady Jane Grey. Besides
these were the Good old days of Yore, Love and
Duty, Tableau from Patience.
   In the comic, Lord Ullin's Daughter, The
Old Woman who lived in a Shoe, and Oft in the
Stilly Night. These were so exceedingly funny
as to provoke the entire audience to laughter
and loud and continuous applause. The reading
by Miss Julia Thomas was much better than at
her first appearance. Her selections were such
as showed to more advantage, her culture in the
beautiful art of elocution. She has a clear and
expansive voice, and is perfectly at ease on the
platform.
   Miss Ada Dwyer, one of our home artists, is
a great favorite on the Salt Lake platform.
Her voice is fresh and sweet and her style is
very pleasing and attractive. She impresses her
audience powerfully. She recited Jamie so
effectively that it seemed real. There is no
doubt that she will attain to marked distinction
in the profession of elocution.
   The Unity Club has certainly made a success
in this last entertainment, and the members
have every encouragement for future efforts in


the direction of culture and benevolent enler-
prise.
   Bishop H. B. Clawson and Henry McEwan
rendered the most valuable assistance, otherwise
the ladles would have never been able to man-
age all the stage arrangements so admirably.
   Success to the Unity Club, and may it con-
tinue to prosper and accomplish good results.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿DESERET HOSPITAL.

 REPORT TO APRIL CONFERENCE, 1883.

   Financial report of the Deseret Hospital from
October 6th, 1882, to April 6th, 1883, inclusive.
October 6th, 1882, to balance: cash, $1,858.00; or
ders, $103.20. Receipts during the six months,
cash,1,815.25; orders, $37.25; groceries, $47.50.
Received in fees per patients, cash, $483.10; or-
ders, $270.35; produce, $33.62 1/2; on a cow, $33.00.
Total, $825.07. Total cash to date, $4,101.85.
Total cash expense, $3,143.63; cash on hand, $1,
017.72. Total expense in orders, produce and
groceries, $129.68 1/2; orders on hand, $62.34. Total
expense, cash, orders, etc., $3,573.31 1/2; average
expense per month, $593.55 1/2. Fees to physi-
cians, $490.00; matron and helps,$734.00. Rent
for building, $360.00.
   In addition to the amounts donated in cash,
orders, etc., there have been donations of coal,
five tons, three stoves, a liberal quantity of wines
and brandy, towels, blankets, quilts, pillow-
slips and bedding of all kinds. One cow and
calf, one pig and quite a number of chickens.
One quarter of beef and one of venison and
many other useful articles. The names of the
donors would fill a pamphlet. Of the money
given, the Unity Club gave the largest amount
during the past six months. The Primary As-
sociation of the Eleventh Ward gave $41.00.
From party in the Fourteenth Ward by the
Relief Society and Young Ladies Association,
$20.00. Donation by Joab Lawrence, $100, at
New Year’s.
   The people have been liberal and the Execu-
tive Board feel encouraged in their labors. It is
expected that an annual meeting of the officers
and members of the Deseret Hospital Associa-
tion will be held on the 12th of May next in the
Council House in this city at 2 p.m, to transact
business pertaining to the Association. Re-
spectfully submitted.
						E.	B.	Wells,
								Secretary.
Apil 6th, 1883.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A VENERABLE WOMAN will be continued in
our next number.

	SEVERAL articles have been left out on ac-
count of tbe real name of the writer not being
given.

	Some reports of Societies and of meetings
and other matters which are not published will
be printed in process of time.

	THE Annual meeting of the Primary Aasscio-
tion of the Thirteenth Ward will be held in the
Thirteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on Friday,
April 19th, at 3 o’clock p.m, Brothren and Sis-
ters interested in these meetings are invited to
attend.
 AMONG other ways in which the Auerbach
Bros, celebrated the wedding of their niece, Miss
Meyer, to Mr. Barnett, on Monday, was by
presenting to the Deseret Hospital a check for
$50, and wishing the long continued usefulness
of that benevolent institution.


Evan Stephens’ Concert in the Salt Lake
Theatre, March 17th, which was repeated in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, April 5th, was a
grand success. The most beautiful sight one
could imagine was two hundred little choristers
on the platform, their sweet, fresh young voices
making harmonious melody in the most appro-
priate pieces. Mr. Stephens richly deserves the
congratulations that are showered upon him
from all sides. He has done a wonderful work,
in training the little ones in the beautiful science
of music, and he never wearies of his continuous
labors in that direction. Mr. Stephens is, with-
out doubt, a genius, and he composes music
with the greatest ease. He has ability and per-
severance, and with these he ought to excel in
the rank of composers.


﻿A WOMAN’S TESTIMONY.

	How thankful we should be, as Latter-day
Saints, that we are permitted to live on the
earth in this our day, when the words of the
prophets of old are being fulfilled every day be_
fore our eyes, and that the power of Jehovah is
felt on the earth; for are we not the favored of
the Lord? Is He not stretching out his mighty
arm for our deliverance? Should we not be
proud of our name and station? What should
be our bearing before the world? We should
not give way to pride and folly, but seek to
serve the Lord our God with full purpose of
heart; a prayer should be ever on our lips.
Righteousness and truth should be our motto;
seek ever to draw unto Him who has said, “I
am the Lord thy God.” The earth is His and
the fulness thereof, the cattle on a thousand
hills; and wo are His Saints; and has He not
promised, in his own due time He would give
all to His people, but we must live faithful
before Him, Saints in very deed; shall we deny
any principle He has revealed for our exalta-
tion? No, verily, no! for have we not a testi-
mony within our hearts, that every principle is
heaven born; for many years have I lived in
plural marriage; as well might you tell me that
the sun would stand still at my bidding as tell
me Celestial marriage is not true, it is the grand
high school to exaltation in our Father’s King-
dom, where we shall meet with our Elder
Brother, even Jeses Christ, who sitteth on the
right hand of God, who has said, “Fear not,
little flock, for I have overcome the world.”
There is no happier lot than that of a true Lat-
ter-day Saint. Let us do the part assigned unto
us well, that it may be said unto us, “Well
done, good and faithful servant, enter thou into
the joy of thy Lord.” God bless you, dear Edi-
tor, and all your co-workers who write so good
for our dear little paper.			B. M. B.
	Richmond, April 4th, 1883.


﻿CORRECTION.
Dear Editor;
	I sent you an obituary of Sister Rozina Fyers, which
was inserted December 1st, please correct. For Rosina
Fyers, born in Denmark, Furs County, please insert
Rozina Shepperd Hyers, born January 21st, 1829, in the
town of Denmark, Lewis County, State of New York;
and oblige your sister in the Gospel,	 B. BROWNER.


[Column 1]
﻿OBITUARIES.
Died, at Fillmore, Febuary 7th, 1883, Sister Elizabeth
Richmond, daughter of William and Mary Green. Born
October 2nd, 1806, at Lugwardine, Herefordshire, Eng-
land. Became a member of this Church in 1810. Emigrated
to America with Apostle Orson Hyde’s company, on his
return from Jerusalem, ariving at St. Louis late in the
fall; remained there until Spring, then proceeded to
Nauvoo; there she was married to Thomas Richmond
and resided until the expulsion of the Saints, in which

[Column 2]
she suffered severely. After burying her husband on
Musquitoe Creek, emigrated to Utah in 1851, making her
home in Provo until 1854, when she moved to Fillmore,
where she has since resided until her demise. Her quiet,
peaceful countenance bespoke the joy aud satisfaction
she experienced in the everlasting Gospel. she was a
faithful member in the Relief Society, and with the
“widow’s mite” was ever ready with untiring zeal to as-
sist others. Her death leaves her aged sister very lonely,
as their lives have been so closely connected, sharing
each other’s joys and sorrows for so many years, that a
separation was painful, and the entire community
extend their heartfelt sympathies to the bereaved and
pray the consoling influence of the Holy Spirit, may be
with her in this hour of affliction. The funeral services
took place in the meeting house, where a very large as-
sembly met to pay their last respects to the departed.
D. K. O. 

Died, at Lake View, Tooele. County, March 6th, 1883,
of child-bed fever, Jane Adamson, beloved wife of Robert
C. Shields, and daughter of David and Jane Adamson.
Born February 11th, 1846, in Rumford, Stirlingshire,
Scotland. Emigrated to Utah with her parents in
1862.
She has been a faithful Latter-day Saint, and a true
member of the Relief Society ot the Lake View Ward.
She was a loving wife and mother, and leaves a husband
and eight children and a host of friends to mourn her
loss.	Relief Society Teachers.

 Died, at Malad City, Oneida Co., Idaho Territory,
Emily Jane Evans, daughter of Leonidas Clinton and
Margrett Emma Mecham, born April 19th, 1863, at
Richville, Morgan Co., baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, when eight years old; re-
baptized by her own desire in 1874. Died, March 25th,
1883, of convulsions, being nineteen years, eleven
months and six days old. She leaves a loving husband,
a little babe of a few hours, and a large circle of rela-
tives and friends to mourn her loss.
All who became aquainted with Sister Emily loved
her, for her amiable, cheerful, and happy disposition,
dispersing clouds of gloom with the merry sunshine in
her loving heart. She was Assistant Secretary to the
Y. L. M. I. A., which she filled with credit; she also took
an active part in our ward choir, and filled our hearts
with joy in listening to the songs of Zion as they flowed
from her lips; and though we sympathize with the
bereaved relatives, and acknowledge the hand of God
our Eternal Father in all the trials and vicissitudes of
life, yet we can say with the poet,
“Dearest sister thou hast left us,
And thy loss we deeply feel,
Yet ’tis God that has bereft us,
He can all our sorrows heal.
“Yet again we hope to see thee,
When death’s gloomy night has fled,
Then on earth with joy to greet thee,
Where no bitter tears are shed.”
Anne Sawyer,

Died, in St. George, of old age, Dioy Ray Perkins,
beloved wife of William G. Perkins, of St. George, Utah
Deceased was born August 12th, 1796, in Patrick Co.,
Virginia. Sister Perkins embraced the Gospel in 1840,
in MacDonald, Hancock Co., Illnois. Brother and Sister
Perkins emigrated to Utah In 1848, bringing with them
an only daughter, who is living in St. George, and who
has ever been devotedly attached to her mother, and her
constant companion through all the trying scenes of
travels, journeyings, and the sorrows of life. Aunt
Dicy, as she was affectionately styled by her friends
both young and old, was one of the most kind-hearted
and generous women that ever lived. In sickness she
was an invaluable friend; thousands in this city can
testify to her devotion in times of extreme trial, and
when sickness and death invaded the homes, Aunt Dicy
was sent for; she practiced as a midwife many, many
years, and was very sucessful indeed as a practitioner.
Warm hearted and sympathetic in her nature, tender to-
ward all, charitable and forbearing, a Latter-day Saint
in every sense of the word. Aunt Dicy died full of
integrity and rich in the faith of the new and overlast-
ing covenant; aged eighty-seven years six months and
twenty-one days. She retained her senses till the last
moment, and gave directions to her daughter Patty,
who she would Iike to have to attend to the last offi-
ces to be performed for her when she was gone. Sister
Perkins suffered much foreight weeks in her last illness,
“Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord,”


....We extend, our heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved
husband and family, and especially to the daughter who
is left so lonely by the mother’s death.
									E. B. W.

	Polly Ann Lane Greer was born in Washington Co.,
Texas, May 1st, 1849, and was married to A. V. Greer
November 2nd 1865, according to the laws of the State
in which they resided, (for time.) On the 2nd day of
July, 1878, they were sealed for time and all eternity ac-
cording to the celestial law of marriage, in the St.
George Temple. Sister Greer was baptized by Elder
Israel D. Alphin, April 18th, 1865, in Bosque Co., Texas.
Brother and Sister Greer emigrated to Utah in 1877, and
to Arizona in 1878. Sister Greer died at Amity, Apache
Co., Arizona, November 28th, 1883, at 6.20.a.m., of con-
sumption. She was a true Latter-day Saint, and re-
ceived with joy all the principles of the Gospel.
	She was set apart as President of the Primary Associa-
tion of this place November 2nd, 1882; she was an affec-
tionate and dutiful companion, a kind mother, and
truely a good neighbor. She departed in peace and full
faith of the Gospel, and an assurance of eternal life in
the Kingdom of God, where she will eventually be re-
united with her husband and little ones, and beloved
brethren and sisters who had not forsaken her in the
dark valley and the shadow of death. She was an ex-
emplary woman and beloved by all. She was the
mother of six children, three girls and three boys. Her
last words to her husband were, I want you to live your
religion and get another wife, one that will suit you.
To her eldest girl Mollie she said, Are you prepared
to give your mother up? the child sobbed no! then she
counseled her to take care of the little brothers and
sisters that would be left lonely at her death, she en-
treated her to be reconciled, and said she must be a good
girl. To her next daughter Sue, she said, I love you Sue,
and then her spirit departed so quickly it could hardly
be realized.							COM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
			REPORTS.
			    _____
		MESA CITY, ARIZONA.
	Some time since initiatory steps were taken
to organize a Y. L. M. I. A., and on January
12th, 1883, the organization was effected, with
the following officers, who were set apart by
President A. F. Macdonald, Bros. Richens,
Stewart and Carter, viz., President, Mrs., Zulie
Kimball; Counselors, Miss Etta Pomeroy and
Miss Beckie Richens; Secretary, Miss Gertrude
Pomeroy; Corresponding Secretary, Mrs. Jennie
Bush; Treasurer, Phoebe Shepard.
	Our society meets weekly, and from the
energetic zeal manifested we hope to attain a
higher degree of excellence in the scale of
intellect.
				JENNIE BUSH,
		Corresponding Secretary for Y. L. A.
				_____
	   WEST BOUNTIFUL PRIMARY.
	Our Association is not a large one in point
of numbers, but the little folks are striving to
improve themselves, and most of them are
much interested. We have had two Primary
concerts here for the benefit of the Association,
which were well attended. They were a great
encouragement to the children, and reflected
credit upon their endeavors. Praying that
the Lord will bless all the Primary associations
and the efforts of those who are laboring in the
good cause.
		MISS JULIA FACKRELL,
							Secretary.
				_____
		AMITY, ARIZONA.
	On November 2nd, 1882, a special meeting
was called in Amity, Arizona, and Bishop
Albinon M. Holden organized a Relief Society
with the following officers, who were unani-
mously sustained by the vote of the people:
Mrs. Martha Bigelow, President; Susan John-
son and Lucinda Holden, Counselors; Mary
Emily Marble, Secretary; Celestina Marble,
Treasurer. Nineteen members are enrolled


and four teachers have been appointed to visit
among the sisters. We hold our meetings
twice a month at 2 o'clock p.m.
	A Young Ladies’ Association has also been
organized with Julia A. Johnson, President;
Lucy Norton and Melvina Gunn, Counselors;
Ellen Bigelow, Secretary; L. Jackson, Assis-
tant Secretary; and Maria S. Holden, Treasu-
rer. There are fourteen members enrolled.
	A Primary Association was organized with
Mrs. Polly Ann Greer, President; Priscilla
Hamblin and Lora A. Brown, Counselors;
Susan Greer, Secretary; and Ella Hamblin,
Treasurer. Thirty-four members enrolled.
The Association hold their meetings every
Saturday at 2 o’clock and they are generally
well attended.
	The sisters are diligent and faithful in the
performance of their duties, the Bishop and a
few of the other brethren occasionly visit our
meetings and counsel and encourage us. Al-
ways praying for the welfare of Zion and the
advancement of mankind, including the eleva-
tion of woman, and also for the success of the
EXPONENT as the advocate of woman’s cause,
I have the pleasure to subscribe myself,
			Yours in the Gospel,
				MARY E. MARBLE,
						Secretary.


_______________________________
﻿PRINCESS MARY, DAUGHTER OF
              CHARLES I.
                      ______
          BY HANNAH T. KING.
                      ______
The royal family of Stewart were remarka-
ble for their beauty, for many fine qualities,
but most of all for their misfortunes! The
Princess Mary, daughter of Charles I, was
an exception in the catalogue, and yet little
has been historically written of her; while
other princesses’ lives have been traced on
the page of history again, and again; she had
a little sister Elizabeth, who died at Carris-
brook Castle while a child, and Queen
Victoria has had a lovely monument erected
to her memory in St. Thomas’s Church, Isle
of Wight. It will be remembered that
Charles I. married a beautiful French Prin-
cess, named Henrietta Maria, the youngest
daughter of Henry IV of France, and his
Queen Mariede Medices; she was not consider-
ed a very wise or suitable wife for an English
king, partly on account of her being a zealous
Roman Catholic, and that her training and
education unfitted her for so important a
position; but she was beautiful, and the king
loved her, and she returned his love. Her
eldest son, afterwards Charles II of England,
was born at Greenwich; his mother declared
him to be an ugly, though a very fine child,
and so solemn in his infant ways, that she felt
he was far wiser than herself. The next ar-
rival was a little daughter, born at Whitehall,
London, on the 4th of Nov., 1631, and was
warmly welcomed by both parents, but she
was a very delicate child, and so caused them
much anxiety; on this account they had her
baptized when only a few days old, by the
name of Maria, after her grandmother; they
were very poor at this time, and it suited their
circumstances to have a private christening, as
the Parliament would not vote more supplies
for them. The child was provided with a
nurse, and the Countess of Roxburgh was her
governess from the first day of her life! When
two years old, an establishment was arranged
for her, which certainly did not indicate pov-
erty; besides a nurse and three watchers, a
lady of the bedchamber, a seamstress, a tailor
and shoemaker, a gentleman usher, two pages,
a laundress, three grooms, four footmen, five
kitchen servants, a coachman, and more im-
portant than all, a good physician, Dr. Mayer,
whose skill and care were supposed to have
saved her life when quite an infant, and con-
sequently was much esteemed by the king,
her father, who was obliged to go to Scotland
soon after Mary’s birth, and so was particular-
ly anxious that her health should be strictly
attended to in his absence; the diet provided
for the little lady’s nursery was more substan-
tial than is procurable for children in this age,
being “manchet and fine bread, mutton or
chicken with all,” and the breakfast must have
been early, as it is reported the children dined
between ten and twelve, their dinner was game
and meat of various kinds, custards and sweet 
tarts, and Gascony wine; on fast days fish
instead of meat, supper the same, but not quite
so heavy. They lived at St. James’s Palace,
London, the greater part of the year, which
was a favorite place with the queen, their
mother, and she loved to walk in the beautiful
garden with the children, carrying the baby
in her arms, singing to it, and talking and
laughing with them.
  Charles I. was anxious that his children
should all speak English as their mother-
tongue, though his wife gave him some trouble
by her preference for her native  language, but
as her sons grew up and visited the French
court, they were unable to converse except in
English! The queen was, of course, a Roman
Catholic, and used to give  Mary rosaries and
crosses, and to take her into the chapel for
mass; when Mary was eight years old the king
found out what was going on, and positively
forbade her being taken there again, and in-
sisted that nothing should ever be said to her
against the protestant faith. She grew to be
a pretty child, and a devoted daughter to her
kind and good father her brother Charles
was her favorite companion.
  A very important event in Mary’s life was
brought about in consequence of her grand-
mother, Marie de Medicie, visiting England;
she came without being invited because it
happened to be convenient to her; this visit
was not an agreeable one, though the queen
was pleased to present her children to her
mother: and she told her “the king had made
her a happy wife, happy mother and a happy
queen!” But even at this time trouble was
gathering around the king, who, while this
happy reunion was taking place, was marching
at the head of his army against his Scotch
subjects, causing his family much sorrow and
anxiety; little Mary began to notice day after
day the grief on her mother's face and the
tears shed by her governess, the countess of
Roxburgh, who had been a second mother to
her, and whom she loved very much, but
whose Husband and son were fighting against
the king; and they missed their pleasant
walks at Richmond or Hampton Court, and
thought it very strange and disagreeable never
to be allowed to go out of doors without a guard
of armed soldiers; even at night her sleep was
disturbed by the tramp of the sentries at the
gates, and the poor child began to look care-
worn like the queen, her mother; at this time,
though so young, a way was already being
made for her to escape from the evils that were
coming on her father’s house; for Marie de
Medicie was the bearer of a message from the
Prince of Orange, asking her in marriage for
his son. Charles I. was very willing to listen
to such proposals for his younger daughters,
but he had more ambitious views for Mary,
besides which he loved her so much, that
he shrank from parting with her.	But
he found that large offers of wealth
were made for the bride, and that the Prince
of Orange would undertake to assist him in
his struggle with his rebellious subjects, and,
moreover, the little girl, who perhaps under-
stood what she had seen with her parents,
that difference in religion caused much misery
between husband and wife, told her father
that she should prefer being married to a


[Column 1]

﻿protestant partner. This decided the matter,
and in April, 1641, the young prince came
over, escorted by twenty vessels, and landed
at Gravesend, where he was met by a royal
equipage, and driven through London to
Whitehall where Charles and Henrietta re-
ceived him most affectionately; Mary was not
there, for she was in bed, poor child, at Somer-
set House with a feverish cold and swollen
face, but her bridegroom of sixteen begged so
hard to be permitted to see her, that the king
and queen took him thither, and the prince
was introduced to her by them, and he kissed
the little girl in spite of her swollen face, and
told his father in his first letter that she was
sweet and lovely; although young, he was very
manly in his manners and was highly accom-
plished, spoke four European languages, a good
mathematician, well acquainted with history,
both of his own country and that of others,
and had long been admitted to sit in the coun-
cils of the state, and Mary, from sympathy
with the trials of those she loved, was older
than her years. Arundel House in the Strand
had been fitted up for his reception, and he
had a private key to the garden of Somerset
House. A frequent interchange of visits took
place, and marriage was proposed and earnest-
ly insisted upon; the king objected in consid-
eration of the youth of his daughter: but, alas!
heavy clouds had long been gathering around
him and his throne, and he had much desired
to find a safe asylum for his beloved family,
for Charles was a devoted husband and father;
it was now proposed by the Prince of Orange,
the prince's father, that the marriage should
be solemnized, that the young princess should
still remain under the care and jurisdiction of
her mother for two years, that the queen
should accompany the young bride to Hol-
land, and at the expiration of the two years,
she should pass to the house of her husband.
Charles at last bowed to a dire necessity that
surrounded him and his family; the marriage
took place with the usual court ceremonies, as
soon as preparations could be made ready.
A royal vessel was duly fitted out, and then
came the cruel separation, the king was per-
fectly unmanned at parting with his almost
worshiped child, for having a mind beyond
her years she had been the solace and comfort
of his troubled life; he repeatedly clasped her
in his arms, blest her and wept bitter tears
over her; probably he had a presentiment that
their separation was final. As long as the
vessel was in sight he stood on the shore mak-
ing fond signals of adieus, he then called for
a swift horse that he might rapidly ride to a
high eminence that still commanded a view of
the ship that bore away his heart's treasures!
Never to meet again on earth! Time passed—
the final tragedy of regicide is history. Mary
mourned the sad, sad finale of her beloved
father, but her mother and her husband blest
and consoled her; the two years with her
mother was religiously kept sacred and then
she was placed in the beautiful home that had
been fondly prepared for her by the hand of
love. Alas, a very few years elapsed before
this lovely and chaste union was dispelled by
the cruel hand of death, the young prince
was seized with malignant smallpox, and left
Mary a widow at nineteen.
	At the restoration of Charles the Second,
he invited his widowed neice and her boy to
come and make her home in England, she
accepted the kindly invitation, and Whitehall,
the home of her childhood, was appointed for
her residence. (A window is still shown in
that fine building from which Charles I.
emerged to walk to the fatal block, from
whence he was ushered into eternity.)
	Mary had not resided long in the beautiful
home of her childhood, when she was attacked
by smallpox, which in a short time terminated
her life in the very bloom of womanhood,

[Column 2]

leaving her son, who in after years ascended
the throne of England by the title of William
III, having married Mary, the eldest daugh-
ter of the deposed King, James II. Parlia-
ment desired that her name should be conjoint-
ly blended with his in the government of the
kingdom, and hence they ascended the throne
unitedly as William and Mary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE MARKET-PLACE AND THE PIC-
		TURES OF MUNICH.
				Munich, Oct. 7th, 1882.
	We have with us in this second visit to this
our favorite city of Germany, a dear friend
whose feet have never trod these old streets
before. The delight of the newcomer at the
place seems to quite keep pace with our own
satisfaction in showing its riches. We wax elo-
quent over the market-place; we coax our
friend through a quaint gateway, and then
lead on to the picturesque square where the old
women have set out their wares to the best
advantage. We hunt up one old woman in
particular. She has always been an especial
attraction to us. Her specialty, which she
keeps heaped up in little tubs in front of her,
is, in American parlance, “pot cheese.” Here
we buy it by the spoonful. It is one of our
luxuries. We indulge in it frequently; partly
to please the old woman, partly to please our
own taste. It reminds us of a lovely spot far
over the blue sea, a beautiful country home
where so many happy summer hours of our
early years were spent. Anything here which
recalls that home and those who were the
charm of the old house is a delight to us in
this far away land. The dear hands whose
loving ministrations wrought so unceasingly for
the comfort or the pleasure of all who had the
fortune to be gathered under her hospitable
roof, have long since ceased their labor, but
her gentle deeds and loving words follow us
even into highways and byways of the old
world.
	This market-place of Munich is particularly
quaint and attractive, large and irregular in
shape—it gives room for many a picturesque
group, which might well delight the heart of any
artist from our own shores whose eye should
fall upon the like for the first time.
	We leave the old square and its comical at-
tractions, and post off to the old Pinakothek.
How glad we are to get into it again. We
have been in Rome, in Florence, and in Venice
since we took our last look here. We have
seen a great deal that is very beautiful, but our
affection for the Munich Gallery is in no wise
shaken. There is certainly no collection of
Rubens’ works anywhere in Italy which can
equal in value and variety the one found here.
Murillo’s Italian children are like a magnet,
and draw us irresistibly to the further end of
the building. They are just as fascinating as
they were months ago. We find ourselves
among old friends. A catalogue is not in order
here for us. We can find all we want without.
We know just where to find the treasures of
Van Dych, and Titian, and Paul Veronese.
We feel as though we were wanderers who had
come home, and a great feast had been spread
for us. Rembrandt’s scenes from the passion
are as grand—grander in our eyes—than they
were before we went south. Del Sarto is as
full of sweetness in his holy family here as we
shall ever hope to find him. Wouverman,
Ruysdael, Brouer and Tenieas tempt us into
the cabinets with as eager steps as in the days
of our earlier aquaintance. Holbein, Durer,
Quinten, Matsys, are prominent in the front
rooms just as we left them—just as we must
leave them and all the treasures which come
after them—and go away soon, not to come
back again for a long, long time, if ever. It is
not so very easy to turn one’s back on the

[Column 2]
wealth of this old Pinakothek and walk quiet-
ly away, knowing in your own heart you may
never look upon its like again. Bavaria has
laid hold on many a rare treasure of art. She
keeps them with most religious care, and is a
jealous guardian of all the good gifts committed
to her charge. With reluctant feet we go out
of the doors of this famous building, grateful at
least for the small fraction of its reflected
beauty that our memory can carry over the
rest of our journey through life.
	In these, our farewell visits, we do not forget
the soldiers. We must see one more drill.
We find them “on duty,” drilling away, exactly
as we left them months ago. They are as
sturdy, strong and stalwart as ever. We act-
ually do believe if this German nation lived on
our side of the water we would be obliged to
keep a large standing army under rigorous
drill if we wanted to be sure of keeping them
at a respectful distance. The entire business of
this great kingdom seems to be the training of
soldiers. The “goose step” provokes anew to
laughter,
	In the afternoon we go to the National Mu-
seum, glad of even a hasty peep once more at
its contents. Weeks only could give one, by
patient study, a satisfactory idea of its vast col-
lections. We have become somewhat familiar
with the building and its wealth of rare antiqui-
ties, and we guide our friends on to its greatest
objects of interest in a sort of despairing con-
dition of mind because we can do but little
more than make a hasty excursion trip through
these wonderful rooms so full of the relics of
other centuries—rich mosaics, rare tapestry
from Raphael’s cartoons, Roman antiquities,
ceilings, marbles, casts, tombstones, jewels and
costumes—all showing the progress of civiliza-
tion, some from the earliest ages, others of more
recent date. In our own land, which is so new,
it would be quite out of the question for us to
understand how these aristocratic old nations
cling to their past. Their heroes have lived in
it. Their poets have sung of it. Everything
which belonged to it is sacred in their eyes.
This particular collection is almost inexhaust-
ible in interest and extent. We wander up
stairs and down, taking in what little we can
out of the great variety before us. The day
comes to an end as far as regular sight-seeing
is concerned.
	We are glad to drop into Cafe Lutz for a cup
of its excellent coffee and queer cakes. When
we are rested we go out for a stroll in the Hof-
garten, look at the historical frescoes in the ar-
cades which open out on to the garden and
walk over to the lower parade ground to see
what the soldiers are doing there, and we feel
after the day’s work that we have been here a
long time. We have renewed so many delight-
ful associations, we don’t quite credit the fact
that we have not yet slept in the old city since
our return.
	We go back to our quarters tired physically
and mentally. The good frau is waiting for us
She has one of her most tempting German
meals ready for our famished condition. She
refreshes us with a cup of tea and produces
Marie and Poots to our no small delight. They
are as bright and fresh, as cute and charming
as ever. They are a picture in themselves—
the sweetest, prettiest German children it is
possible to imagine. We were more than glad
to get hold of the dear little things again. It
was right restful to fall into the kindly frau’s
motherly care once more. The dining salon
looked as cheery as ever, and the valuable frieze,
painted by the artist son-in-law, still lent its
grace to this well-remembered room. We missed
the faces which had gathered round the table in
the winter time before. Nearly every one had
“gone on,” and we were left alone in our glory.
Many of these friends had met us more than
once during our wanderings; others shall we
hope to see again. The meetings are for the


most part better than the partings. It was
quite delightful to put our tired head on the fa-
miliar pillows once more, balance the comical
little feather bed over our feet and give our-
selves up to the contemplation of our surround-
ings. The next day we could devote to the
churches, which are more than ordinarily in-
teresting in this old catholic city. We found
our thoughts rather like dissolving views—now
one thing and now another—quaint gables,
marketwomen and costly relics faded out of
mind at last, leaving us fast asleep in Munich.
Ex.		RUTH RANDOM.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

MEN'S RIGHTS.

	Men's rights! the reader is saying in sur-
prise, why we always supposed men not only
had rights, but the power to grant similar per-
sonal possessions to others. For men style
themselves "lords of creation," and boast on
Scriptural grounds that in their faces the
image of God dwells. And so it should.
	A maiden lady whose business had thrown
her much with that shrewd class of men called
lawyers, by whose craftiness, or her own ig-
norance, a handsome property suddenly van-
ished, bewailed the degeneracy of men and the
advantage they often took of poor, defenceless
women. "Well," answered the translator of
the law, "what's a woman that you should
make such a fuss of her?" "What's a man?"
tartly answered the aggrieved party. "A man!
a man! why a man's a man! The world couldn't
do without men; they build railroads, and
carry on great enterprises. But the women—
all they have to do is to mind the house and
be the mothers of men."
	A look of unutterable scorn, and as the in-
furiated woman departed, the final knell came,
"The mothers of men!"—looking the shrink-
ing individual from-head to foot—his narrow
soul blinking through his half shut eyes—
"what a mother you must have had!"
	And watching the faces of men, how often
are we impressed with the truth of these
words. In some the image of God—truth,
purity, mercy, justice, love, glorify them into
more than human (what a blessed mother was
theirs!); in others the image defaced by lines
of sin, selfishness and low desires. ( God pity
your mothers, poor men, for ye are legoin!)
	So we cannot be far from the truth when we
say the first right of every man is a good
mother; and as the choice of mothers depends
on the men, we add most emphatically, a good
father too. "Oh, that's an old story, we al-
ways have heard that." Old! certainly, but
none the less true: and so a rule that is only in
the primary books of the first series of the vol-
umes of human life—the rule of three. For if
two uncongenial souls can afford to battle out-
alone their miseable rexistence, choosing pan
demonium instead of paradise, the world can-
not afford for them to cast another being like
themselves—an Esau from his birth—into its
schools, its streets and its business.
	The very idea of a baby in a home suggests
a welcome, a place, loving care of both father
and mother, intelligent understanding of its
physical needs, and skill to develop its mind,
leading it always towards the good. It also
suggests plenty of bread and butter, fresh air,
sunshine, and common sense.
	Men who would not expect to gather
"grapes of brambles" will wonder why their
children are not miracles of beauty and genius,
when they marry women of small mental cali-
bre, poor creatures with no thought above the
dressing of their bodies or the obeying of the
dictates of fashion; they will wonder why their
children are peevish and puny, when their
mothers are always "under the Doctor's care,"
miserable dyspeptics, despondent and morose;
and wonder of all wonders, they are surprised if

[Column 2]

their little ones show selfishness, meanness, re-
taliation, when they themselves kept the moth-
er a very beggar upon their bounty, or by
carelessness and neglect sowed the seeds of this
bitter harvest.
	To many men this first best right has been
denied, and many a one because of the lack,
battles all his life with the unseen foes of con-
torted or misdirected impulses. Better even a
mother with a weak body, than one with a
weak mind and cringing soul, afraid of her
husband, afraid of life, and afraid of death.
	Many a man toils unceasingly to give his
children worldly possessions, when the best
heritage he could give them would be himself;
the love and care that binds a house together
and keeps its faith with God; that with un-
tiring patience and sweetness gives to each
child its best birthright—a good mother.
—Women at Work.		E. T. H.


Dr. Mary Safford, sister of ex-Governor
Safford of Arizona, has taken two hundred
acres of land near Tarpew, Florida, where she
intends to plant a colony. She has an idea of
establishing a Sanitarium in that colony to
which invalids will likely be attracted from all
parts of the States. Dr. Safford is an energet-
ic, shrewd, and brilliant woman, highly cul-
tured and exceedingly able in her profession.
She has traveled extensiveiy in foreign lands,
also among other places, and visited Utah, when
we had the pleasure of meeting and conversing
with her. Her views upon the woman ques-
tion are broad in the extreme and she intends
putting them in practice, it seems, by founding
a colony. She has similar ideas in this matter
to Mrs. Martha Coray (now deceased) pub-
lished in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT several
years ago.


ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.	C.	M.	I.
SALT LAKE CITY., Utah.
			IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
				MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
		We carry a larger  more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
		WW. JENNINGS, Supt.
	A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Buildings; also HOME MADE
	Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
	Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
	Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
	Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
	Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.
	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
					HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
				CALL AND EXAMINE
	Spring and Summer Goods.
	MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON.
	Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
		of the Desert National Bank, and half a 
			block north, west side of the street.
			SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
		OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
KNITTING FACTORY,
	On 1st W. St., Bot. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
	Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
		etc. Family Knitting done Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
	19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D. 
		OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'8 BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
	Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
		Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
	OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence
		Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found the latest styles and productions
					in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
		FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
			RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
			And an elegant assortment of
		DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.
		ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
		Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
					and 4th East Streets.
	Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
				OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the 
		NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
		Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.
	HENRY DINWOODEY.
FURNITURE,
				WALL PAPER,
  CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQU NS
		AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 TO 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
	DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 808, Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

