VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1883.	No. 15.


A NEW YEAR'S OFFERING.—1883.

	The way of this world is to praise and bless,
Extol and venerate the memory
Of dear and faithful friends when they are dead.
Too oft while they are with us, we forget, 
Or fail to realize their priceless worth;
We do not sense how much they are to us,
How much our happiness depends on them,
Till they are gone, and then it is “too late!"
Too late e’er to recall one needless pang,
One harsh expression, which we may have giv'n,
Or offer love long due, too long withheld.
	The Gospel light, restored in latter-days,
Corrects—with every other—this mistake;
And those who will accept it, in its strength,
Its beauty and its fulness, "need not err,"
In greater or in lesser things than these.
"The testimony of the Lord is sure,
And maketh wise the simple"—happy truth!
To those who will receive it, it is peace.
But doubts and bitterness will cling to those
Who shut their hearts against its kind approach.
	The year just closed is like a buried friend.
And if its gifts, its precious days and hours,
We've failed to value in their faultless course,
Failed to fill up with useful thoughts and deeds,
Then o’er its grave we may indeed lament,
With sad, unfeigned though unavailing tears.
But if, instead, we've wisely spent the wealth
Of opportunities for doing good,		
That crowded on us in the fleeting time;
Watchful that nothing worth a stroke should pass,
Which we might aid in doing, or might do,
Forming fair shrines for tender memories,
Then truly, we can find no cause to weep
For this kind friend, more than for the vast throng
Of cherished favorites, the sweet and pure,
The good, and wise, and staunch, among our own,
Who have been summoned in the year now past,
To higher spheres of action and of thought.
That they have triumphed, winning fadeless crowns,
We cannot doubt; therefore we will not mourn.
But with the gen'rous feelings, that should live
Within the heart of every Saint of God,
We'll praise and bless Him for His matchless love;
And ceaseless thanks we'll offer for His care, 
And kind protection which salvation wrought,
Anew for us throughout the vanished year,
And—through obedience—is promised still;
And with our thanks this humble prayer we'll raise:
	Our Father, God! Bless Thou Thy chosen one,
Thy servant whom Thou'st called to lead Thy Saints,
Whose head is silvered with the time and thought,
Which he hath spent to glorify Thy name 
In the salvation of his fellowmen.
Bless him with health and with Thy strength, and let
The light of revelation dwell with him,
That he may comprehend Thy mind and will 
Concerning Zion—yea, 'the pure in heart,' 
And with him bless his Counselors; the Twelve,
Their Counselors, and all whom Thou hast called
To bear Thy Holy Priesthood here on earth;
Make harmless every weapon that is hurled
'Gainst those who bear Thy truth into the world;
The young among Thy sons and daughters bless,
Surmount them with the shield of righteousness;
Let faith and union with Thy Saints increase, 
Throughout the Stakes of Zion spread Thy peace;
And through the year just op’ning, may we stand,
Or follow, as Thou wilt, Thy guiding hand.
We ask all things, and say Thy will be done,
In the dear name of Thy beloved Son;
Thine, be the glory, and, let once again,
All Israel say Amen! Amen!! Amen!!!'"
	LULA.


[Column 1]

JANE WELSH CARLYLE.

	The life of this good woman, in the hand of
a George Eliot, would make a soul-thrilling

[Column 2]

and most instructive homily to women of all
grades; many such have been written, and
read with tears, and heartfelt sympathy, and to
every thinking mind with edification. Yet
we often hear such works derided as trashy
fiction, when in truth they are always taken
more or less from living characters. Dickens,
and George Eliot invariably drew from life.
Sir Walter Scott was so pointed in this, that
his characters were read and recognized. I am
bold to say the writings of these authors, with
Bulwer and many others, cannot be read by
any mind of capability to comprehend, with-
out life instruction, especially to those whose
lives have been spent in comparative seclusion.
The young mind craves food as well as the body,
and is so imperative that it will have it. Then
let them read to their hearts content; if they
read such authors as I have named with ap-
preciation, they will have no taste for inferior
writers. The life of Jane Carlyle shows there
is often more romance in real life, than even
found in books. I have been drawn into this
train of thought by reading a very brief sketch
of this lady’s life, which would certainly make
a book, if taken in hand by a competent writer.
	I have already felt a repulsion to Thomas
Carlyle, great as he was, for which I can
scarcely account, as I have only read portions
of his "Latter-day Pamphlets," but in them he
has considerably developed himself:—on read-
ing this brief memoir of his wife, I felt there
must be some instinct in the feeling! now, at
last, is given to the world the sombre life. The
imprisoned soul of his beautiful, and most
exemplary wife, Jane Welsh; for fifty long
years this woman lived like one who had
"taken the veil." Carlyle, like most devotees
of the pen, was poor; and the life-struggle of
his wife was to economize a small income to
enable him to follow his vocation, his mission
on the earth as "a teacher of mankind"—in
this course she never faltered, but steadily,
daily, and yearly laid herself on the altar of
sacrifice that she might accumulate all good to
a being, who was hard, cold, and unapprecia-
tive; even through the long, weary years they
lived at Craigenputtoch (the very name gives
one the chills), the bleak Scotch hills, stretch-
ing in monotonous barrenness on all sides, yet,
through all she plodded on through her hard
and dreary warfare; without sympathy and
without appreciation, filling the most menial
offices; while far from being the companion of
her husband, she only saw him for a few
moments in his dressing room in the morning
acting as his valet, during the long seven
years of their residence there, for he could
only compose in solitude, and his nervousness
compelled him to occupy a room far away from
the domestic doings of the house. Through
her constant labors of love, she enabled him to
fulfill his great mission, freeing him from all
domestic care; but sometimes she would speak
of the travail that accompanied the production
of his great work, "Life of Frederick the
Great," and in her witty way she called it "the
valley of the shadow of Frederick!" So
Carlyle lived, and wrote in comparative ease,
and Jane, his wife, nourished the life-blood,
and fed the lamp with oil day by day, without
praise and without price.
	But I must retrograde somewhat, that I may
give a brief outline of this noble woman, for
without that, her picture would be entirely in-
complete, and her great merit depreciated, but
death has brought to life and light. I will

[Column 3]

not fail in my purpose—even though I may be
somewhat erratic in the recital.
	"Save the history of Charles and Mary
Lamb, there is no more pathetic history in
English literature, than that of Thomas
Carlyle, and his wife, Jane," and yet how
many have gone down to their graves with a
like history, none knowing and none appre-
ciating?
	Jane Welsh was the petted and only
daughter of a Scotch physician, who boasted
of the family, blue blood, and who had ample
means to live a life of ease and elegance; Jane
was a pretty, gay and lively child, and grew
up a very attractive woman; she received a
liberal education, was bright, and witty, and
possessed a beautiful face, and pleasing man-
ners; all this was a fortune in itself; of
course she had many admirers, but she re-
mained perfectly heart-whole till meeting
Edward Irving, she felt he was the only man
she had ever seen to whom she could commit
her life destiny- Irving had been her tutor,
and now solicited to be accepted as her lover,
but he had been affianced to another woman,
and this was a serious obstacle in the way of
accepting him; yet she candidly confessed she
loved him, but told him he must first win the
consent of his affianced to a severance of their
engagement; but a Scotch betrothal is as
sacred as a Jewish one, and means much more
than is ordinarily received by English or
American society. The young lady refused to
absolve her vacillating lover from his cove-
nant with her, even after she heard that he
loved another; and Jane was too proud to ac-
cept a lover with a broken troth, so ended her
first and only love!
	At this time her father died, she was devot-
edly attached to him, and the shock and sor-
row it caused her, seriously affected her health,
not being of a strong constitntion. To the
latest period of her life she rarely spoke of him,
and always in a sacred hushed way, which told
the reverential love with which she cherished 
his memory. This alone, if nothiug more,
shows a marked phase of the woman's chaarc-
ter—womanly love and devotion, was its most
distinctive features, and which her whole life
exemplified. Edward Irving was the only man
she ever loved—she confessed to a dear friend
in the later years of her life, that she married
Carlyle from ambition, and she added, "he has
far surpassed all that I ever hoped of him, yet
I am miserable!" Here was the grand mistake
of her life, they were the antipodes of each
other, both by nature and education. She was
of patrieian birth, fond of society, proud, sensi-
tive and accomplisded; he was of the yeoman-
ry of Scotland, accustomed to the hard life of
its bleak hills; he had no sympathy with fine
lady arts, was not social, was grim even in his
humor, was dictatorial, believing in himself
and scarcely anything else; but she found him
superior to all around him in intellect, and she
felt he would make his mark in the world, so
she married him. Had she remained single,
relying upon her own capabilities, she would
have become a literary character, of which
she was very fond, and her letters, and diary,
and occasional poems, all reveal the fact that
she composed with ease, and her rare conver-
sational powers would have drawn around her
a circle of admiring friends, instead of which,
she formed a loveless union, her own individu-
ality absorbed in that of her husband, a menial
in position, her home cares and daily struggles


to make a small income suffice, that her hus-
band might be free from the cares of poverty,
that he might devote himself to his mission,
which it seems she firmly believed in—all this
was the sad reverse of the life picture. Yet I
believe it is a very common one. Woman is
a proud being, her Creator formed her so most
wisely. I do not believe any high-souled
woman really loves a man she does not admire
evenmore, still I must have much love in
marriage, or it cannot be an immortal union.
Words may be spoken, deeds may be drawn
up, but if love is not there to seal and ratify,
there must be a scroll over all having some-
thing like such words as, “Held in bondage.”
I feel if Jane Welsh read my words she would
say in the words of Scripture, “True, O king!”
Much more might be told, but the time came
for this woman to enter her rest; she passed
away from all earthly trials, and then, strange
to tell, her husband woke from his apathy,
the vision of his mind seemed afraid and at
once might fancy a tableaux opened before
him of her life, sacrifice for him, and it was
given to him to realize all she had done and
endured for his sake, her loveless and unappre-
ciating husband, and then he mourned her
with all the tenderness that in life he had
denied her.
	“Like many another rare and great,
	Thou wer’t not treasured till too late.”
				HANNAH. T. KING.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following is from my father's last letter,
which was written at Willmington, Deleware,
June 12th:
	"I am at the house of Brother Sanders, who
is very kind, also his family, and I feel free
and at home here. We arrived yesterday at
two o'clock—left Washington at six in the
morning; stopped one hour at Baltimore. As
for Congress, they have not got it in their
hearts to do the first thing for us, because it is
not popular. * * * But the Lord
is our King, and He has all things in His
hands; as this is the case, it is for Him to give
us our inheritance, for Congress has violated
all rights and claims to the earth, or anything
that pertains to it. I must say I felt indig-
nant some of the time while in Washington,
to see their indifference towards us. There
are some three or four who seemed to be
friendly—I think merely to get our support; I
will give their names: General Sample, of
Alton, Judge Douglas and Mr. Wentworth, of
Chicago—these three men belong to Illinois,
we sent them. General Atchison and Hughes,
from Missouri seem to be kind. Oh, the de-
ception that we find in this world! Elder
Wight and myself have presented a petition to
get redress for our wrongs in Missouri, or for
them to give us some land somewhere in the
world, either in Texas, Arizona or Iowa. The
bill had gone before the committee of public
lands; it was thought by some of the members
that it would go favorable. Do not think that
they can restore what they have taken from us
—that cannot be done in this world. * * *
	"We shall leave here to-morrow for Phila-
delphia, from thence to Boston, as the Confer-
ence will be on the 29th and 30th of July;
then I shall return to New York. When you
get to Philadelphia I can get word from you
in one or two days and come to you. I spoke
to the Captain of the Osprey to see that you
got on to a good boat. You will be treated
kindly, for ladies are not insulted. If you
come, tell William to be careful of the chil-
dren, and keep them out of the wet, and see
that they have plenty to eat. Tell him and
Mary they must attend to prayers when you

[Column 2]

leave—they shall not lose anything by so do-
ing, but shall have health and peace and the
good things of this world. * * *	I
hope to dispose of my land, then I shall be
able to bring them some clothes. Tell him to
be prudent in all things, use those things that
will be for their comfort. I hope to get a line
from you soon, then I’ll know what your cal-
culations are' I shall write no more at present
—this I thought might reach there before you
started. I shall write to the children now and
then. Tell them to write often and direct to
the city of New York. As ever your affec-
tionate husband and father,
		HEBER C. KIMBALL."
	Preparations had been made, and we were to
start for the East on or about the 1st of July;
our kindred had been notified of our coming.
Sister Cobb, before returning East, had urged
my father to bring me to Boston to spend a
portion of the summer, and my expectations
and desires I thought were now to be gratified.
This was the second time that I had anticipated
a visit to the home of my birth, endeared by
the fondest recollections of my infant years. I
longed to see again those dear old meadows
and green woods, where my cousins and I had
strolled together with our playmates, climbing
up the high fences to be able to reach the
nicest autumn berries; and many instances and
scenes I remembered distinctly. There were
my father’s first potter shop and our dwelling
house, built by his own hands. There his first
four children were born—the first was a girl
and the fourth a boy, who were buried in the
little groveyard near by. And though last not
least was the old red schoolhouse, standing
upon the outskirts of the town, near a large
swamp, where I first learned my a, b, c. My
night and day dreams were filled with the
bright hope of future and unalloyed pleasures
which I imagined were in store for me. No
girl, I think, ever felt more animated, or
looked forward with a greater desire for the
happy day to come that would see us off. The
thought never entered my mind that the Pro-
phet could be murdered, causing a sudden
change in affairs that would call my father
home, and thereby all the airy castles that I
had been building be cruelly dashed to the
ground.
	The following hastily written lines tell of
the awful fate of the Prophet and his brother,
Hyrum, and describe the scene in Nauvoo,
aud the deep sorrow and lamentation that filled
the hearts of the people:
	"NAUVOO, June 30, 1844.
MY DEAR COMPANION:
	"Never before did I take up my pen to ad-
dress you under so trying circumstances as we
are now placed, but as Brother Adams, the
bearer of this, can tell you more than I can
write, I shall not attempt to describe the scene
through which we have passed. I saw the life-
less bodies of our beloved brethren, when they
were brought to their almost distracted fami-
lies. Yea, I witnessed their tears and groans,
which were enough to rend the heart of
adamant. Every brother and sister who wit-
nessed the scene felt deeply to sympathize with
them; yea, every heart is filled with sorrow, and
the very streets of Nauvoo seem to mourn.
Where it will end the Lord only knows. We
are kept awake night after night by the alarm
of mobs. These apostates say, "Their damna-
tion is sealed, their die is cast, their doom is
fixed," and that they are determined to do all
in their power to have revenge. William Law
says he wants nine more that were in his quo-
rum, sometimes I am afraid he will get them;
I have no doubt but you are one. * * *
	"There was a strange circnmstance took
place when the Legion was first called out to
defend the city. There were several drums
found with blood upon them. No one could
account for it; they examined to see how many

[Column 3]

there were; they found ten, and when they
were examining the eleventh, there came a
large drop on that one. William has seen
them, and says with all that the drums have
been used, the blood is still plain to be seen.
	"I try to submit all things into the hands of
God. I have felt opposed to their sending for
you to come home at present, and did not know
as they would, until Brother Adams called
here a few moments ago, and told me he should
start in about two hours; if I wanted to write
I must send it to the Mansion within that time.
I have not time to say much, neither is it nec-
essary, as he can tell you all. My health is
better, and the children are all well. I mailed
a letter to you last Monday, directed to Balti-
more. The letters you sent from Washington
all came together last Wednesday; the mail
had not been in before for four weeks. When
I read your pressing invitation for me to meet
you, I again took courage, that the way would
yet open for us to go, but alas! all our hopes
in that direction are blasted. My constant
prayer now is for the Lord to preserve us all
to meet again. I have no doubt but your life
will be sought, but may the Lord give you
wisdom to escape their hands. My time is up,
so now fare you well till we meet, which may
the Lord soon grant, for His Son's sake.
Amen.	VILATE KIMBALL."
	I well remember the morning that the news
came to our city of the murder of Joseph and
Hyrum. I had slept that night with Emily
Partridge at the house of Winsor P. Lyon.
The first sound that broke upon our ears was
the voice of Sister Lyon, as she opened the
door and told us that they were murdered.
	Many scenes in Nauvoo, some of which are
described by my mother, are still fresh in my
memory. I stood in the door as the procession
passed our house, which had increased to sev-
eral thousand, who followed the wagons bear-
ing the martyrs as they proceeded to the Man-
sion. I was an eye and car witness to the in-
sulting speech delivered by Governor Ford
upon the very frame of a building which stood
west of the Mansion, where a few days pre-
vious with thousands I had listened to Joseph's
last address to the Legion, never suspecting
treachery nor the awful tragedy that was being
enacted at Carthage, where this cowardly Gov-
ernor had pledged his honor and the faith of
the State that they should he protected. We
were promised that the laws should be magni-
fied and justice be meted out to their murder-
ers. It was the popularity of Joseph as can-
didate for the Presidency, and the power and
influence that the "Mormon" people were
gaining, that created a feeling of fear among
the apostates and corrupt politicians, and a
deeper hatred took possession of their hearts,
similar to that which was felt by the Jews
towards Jesus Christ, and like them they were
determined to put an end to his earthly career.
	It was the morning of June 24 when Jo-
seph and Hyrum, with the City Council, the
Marshal and a number of others, started on
horseback for Carthage. Joseph halted as
they reached the Temple, and looking with ad-
miration upon it and upon the beautiful city,
he remarked: "This is the loveliest place and
the best people under the heavens; little do
they know the trials that await them."
	Our history tells a tale of bitter woe—the
sufferings of the innocent, the robbings and
drivings from their homes, the wailings of the
widows and the orphans, the fathers and
mothers, brothers and sisters, for their dead
and dying, and the surrendering of their arms
and submitting to all the cruelties that could
be heaped upon them, rather than deny their
religion—but does it tell of any redress being
made for the wrongs done them by this nation?
No, nor do we look for any from them; but
our case will be taken to a higher court, whence
there is no appeal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 115﻿


THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.

Pure and white a scroll unwritten
	The new year rises up to-night,
Must we enter it unbidden,
	Unwillingly our actions write?
The deeds of good or ill record,
	Marring its surface here and there,
Impious thought, or broken word,
	Resolves that never fruitage bear.

We gaze upon its open door,
	But dare not on its threshold tread,
Fain would we backward turn once more,
	Awhile to linger with the dead:
Our best intentions seem so frail,
	Our noblest plans a broken reed,
We would not raise the misty veil,
	The same old saddened tale to read.

Repenting, sinning—fold on fold,
	We wrap around of high resolves,
We start—but never reach the goal,
	Our strength in weakness all dissolves:
Our life is but a flying train,
	And wrecks are strown along the track,
We may not gather them again,
	We cannot if we would turn back.

In shiv'ring guise the old year stands,
	And mournful dirge sweeps o'er the way,
The ice winds speed along the lands,
	Unheeding both the grave and gay.
In gilded halls, on cushioned seat
	Their shrieks seem only wintry glee,
But when through wants' low walls they beat
	They wake the cry of misery.

The old year dies 'mid laugh and song,
	Where costly viands sparkle clear,
And through the mazy dance along,
	There traileth now dark pall and bier,
Yet pause they not, by corse or shroud,
	Still revelry and feast go on,
With boasting vain and thoughtless proud,
	Into the untried year move on.

Yet some between the old and new,
	Lay down their burdens at His feet.
And consecrate themselves anew,
	To life more perfect and complete—
There, countless millions kneel to-night,
	Low at the holy altars shrine
Apart from all that can allure,
	They seek for light and truth divine,
Some with generous hand hath staid,
	The widow's sigh, the orphan's moan,
And from the downward path of sin,
	Have brought some wandering children home.
Unholy gains thay have not stored,
	Nor turned the suff'ring poor away,
Have lived the teachings of their Lord,
	Walked humbly in His sight alway.

And in this solemn midnight dread,
	A white-robed army moves along,
And from the ashes of the dead,
	Rise peans of immortal song.
Jan. 1883.					L. M. HEWLINGS.


IN SCOTLAND.

HONORS TO PRESIDENT ELIZABETH CADY
	STANTON.
The North British Daily Mail, of Scotland,
Nov. 4, gives an extensive account of the great
demonstration in support of a memorial to her
Majesty’s government, praying for the exten-
sion of the parliamentary franchise to women
householders and rate payers, under the aus-
pices of the Scottish National Demonstration
of Women, at which Mrs. Stanton was ac-
corded the greatest honors. Of her address
the Mail reports;
“Mrs. Cady Stanton, an American lady”—I
can assure you I appreciate the honor that has
been conferred upon me in being permitted to
celebrate with you this grand event of the
crowning of thousands of Scottish women with
the great right of franchise. (Applause.) It
was here in Scotland where was fought, over
and over again, the  battle of freedom:


here where your own glorious poet, Robert
Burns, sang the glad songs of equality for hu-
manity that have gone around the world; here
where your grand novelist, Sir Walter Scott,
drew his heroines, grand, brave, self-asserting,
for I believe the pen of Scott never drew a
weak woman; here too, where your great
divine, Chalmers, so eloquently defended the
rights of individual conscience and judgment;
and it is fitting that here at last the right of
the franchise should be conferred on your
women. (Applause.) And what is this right
of suffrage—a right so laughed and scorned at
by those who do not appreciate its blessing and
its power. The right of suffrage gives you a
voice in the regulation of your homes, of your
streets, of your schools, of your religion, of
your politics. It is vain to talk of the home
being woman’s sphere so long as she has not a
word to say in regard to the laws that govern
that home. I was very much pleased with the
remarks of the speaker who preceded me in
her rebuke of your members of Parliament
and the House of Commons. But, remember,
my friends, behind every one of our legislators
there stands a woman. And what has been
the influence of the women in high places in
this great reform. They have whispered into
the ears of our legislators, our statesmen, our
philosophers that they had all the rights they
want. Our trouble has not been with the
men—they have been open to reason—our
trouble has been with the women themselves.
(Applause.) It is the saddest sight to me to
see a woman well clothed, fed and sheltered,
in the midst of most fortunate surroundings,
robed and mantled, all complacency about her-
self, and saying "I have, all the rights I want."
O, selfish one! I ask you to look over your
garden gate, where all is beauty, fragrance,
and peace, unto the wilderness beyond, where
the immortal flowers are fading fast, with
no kind hands to lift their drooping heads or
any kind hearts to speak them words of peace
and love. (Applause.) Remember, mothers
of Glasgow, our jails and prisons are regu-
lated by law, and what a power you have
in your hands in trying to build up higher
and better towns and cities in your midst.
Remember, man is the representative of jus-
tice, woman of mercy, and we need these two
grand elements everywhere, hand in hand,
walking up and down the highways of life.
(Applause.) It has sometimes been said that
this movement of ours is antagonistic to men.
My friends, how can that be? The women
on all our platforms have sons as well as
daughters, and think you a mother would do
aught to take from the dignity, the glory,
and the praise of her sons? (Applause.)"—Ex.


WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

	We have received an invitation to attend as a
delegate from Utah the National Woman Suf-
frage Association to be held in Washington,D. C.
January 23d, 24th and 25th. There will be
sessions daily at 10 a.m., and 8 p.m. The
afternoon will be devoted to the business of the
N. W. S. A., and its congressional work. It
is the wish of the officers of the Association
that delegates be present representing the wo-
men of every State and Territory in the
Union. Friends who cannot aid by their work
are solicited to contribute generously in money
to defray the necessary expenses of the Con-
vention. The call is issued by the Chairman
Executive Committtee and further signed by
Susan B. Anthony, Vice-President, and Ra-
chel G. Foster, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
MISCELLANEOUS.

	"WOMAN VS. MEN," is the alarming title of
a letter in to-day's Standard, but the terrors of
the title are nothing to the fearsome facts dis-

[Column 2]
closed. It appears that in the B. A. examina-
tions of the University of London only 42 per
cent of the men were successful, but of the
women 73 per cent.; and even of these only
one-third of the men succeeded in getting so
much as a secondclass, while only one-sixteenth
of the sweet girl-graduates failed to be placed
in the first division.
	The writer of the letter (Mr. A. P. Hens-
man) states that he took an active part in the
movement for the admission of women, and is
not a little proud of his female triumph; and
we think it must have been some prophetic
destiny that named him "Hensman." Stand-
ard, London.
	CETEVAYO'S ENGLISH PRESENTS. — The
Cape Times says:—"Cetevayo has brought
back from England many handsome and costly
souvenirs of his visit, including a stick with
silver head and silver ferule given to him by
the Prince of Wales, beautiful Cashmere shawls
from great ladies for his wife and female suite,
superb railway rugs and piles of prints and
other dress stuffs for the use of persons who
perfer the garb of Nora Creina. But of all
his mementoes that which he values most is a
great silver goblet presented to him by the
Queen and bearing the inscription—'Presented
to H. M. King Cetevayo by H. M. Queen
Victoria, August 14, 1882.' In addition to
the goblet the Queen gave him with her own
hands a photograph of herself, rather larger
than cabinet size."
	TITHES IN ENGLAND.—The origin of tithes
in England is curious enough. It would ap-
pear that Ethelbert, King of East Anglia,
made proposals of marriage to Althrida,
daughter of Ofia, King of Mercia. These
proposals were favorably received by Offa, who
had no sooner got the unfortunite suitor in his
power than he barbarously murdered him.
For this heinous sin Offa made his peace with
the church by granting it the tenth part of the
produce of his realm. All this happened in
the west of England about the year 786. In
the time of Edward VI. (1553) the church
tithes may be said to have been placed on the
basis on which they now rest. Since then land
has been continuously rising in value, and con-
sequently with it the amount of tithes. Until
the passing of the Commutation act, in 1836,
there used to be constant dissensions and law-
suites between the clergy and their parishion-
ers as to the collection of these dues. Some-
times a farmer would deliberately allow a crop
to be spoiled, and thereby leave the parson
without any remedy. Sometimes he would
prosecute the clergyman for not removing his
tithe in reasonable time, and he would stop up
roads and bar gates so as to give the clergyman,
his carts and teams a longer journey to and
back with his booty. The act of commutation
removed many of these petty grievances of
which both tithe-payer and tithe-owner com-
plained. The clergyman was by this act to re-
ceive every year the money equivalent of a
fixed and definite number of quarters of corn.
This constitutes the modern tithes which alone
bring into the church a revenue exceeding
twenty million dollars annually, though this
vast sum by no means exhausts the sources of
ecclesiastical wealth.
	A very great grievance at the present mo-
ment is a so-called "extra tithes." These are
levied exclusively on orchards, vegetable gar-
dens, and certain crops, such as hops. They
vary in most every county and parish, and
range from four to fifteen shillings an acre.
They form, therefore, a serious item in the ex-
pense of working such properties, and have
contributed not only a little to increase the im-
ports from abroad into England of hops, fruit
and vegetables. At the present moment they
are being strenuously resisted by farmers in
many parts, though as the law stands there is
but little hope of immediate redress.


116	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 1, 1883.


﻿THE YEAR 1883.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT sends a hearty
greeting of a happy new year to its many readers.
Whether here at home in the valleys of the
mountains, or afar off over the seas or in what-
ever land or clime the little messenger finds its
way. May it carry with it a blessing, truth,
light, a ray of sunshine, that all who read it may
be cheered, encouraged in the path of duty,
urged to persevere in doing good and assisting
others. Stronger in the faith and more earnest
in labors for the kingdom of God upon the
earth.
	The new year is a time for good resolves, a
desire to improve in all that will help one to
gain the sure road to happiness here and here-
after. A desire to gain light and intelligence
that will be to the soul like a fountain of pure
water to refresh invigorate and strengthen it.
The year has dawned suspiciously for the Saints,
peace prosperity and every needed blessing
abounds in Utah, and future prospects seem
propitions.
	It is good to have such days as Christmas and
New Year's when one is expected to greet
friends and acquaintances with kindly or affec-
tionate salutation. One might grow cold and
hard were it not for some of the pleasant re-
minders that swoop down now and then, and
enfold one in such a loving embrace that one is
glad to submit to all the extra responsibilities,
which ever attend upon new phases and condi-
tions, for the gladness and joy it brings to the
heart. To become indifferent to the happiness
of others and be swallowed up in one's own am-
bition pride or pleasure is a very common falling
among mortals, and sometimes creates such
selfishness as to exclude even politeness, where
affability and kindness should be extended.
Kind words, cheerfulness and smiles help
one wonderfully, to be sure this is not all,
but they are often more acceptable than gifts.
This is not a homily however upon kindness
love or charity but a new year's greeting, and
whatever short comings, faults or blunders, the
EXPONENT may have been answerable for in the
past, we trust that in the future it will be able
to correct them, and improve in its appearance
ere the year that has just dawned shall have
drawn to a close. And again "A Happy New
Year" to all our friends and patrons.


[Column 1]
MRS. SAXON'S LETTERS.

	WE have received from New Orleans two
copies of the "Times Democrat," Dec. 8 and 15,
containing the letters written by Mrs. Elizabeth
Lisle Saxon while in this city dated Nov. 29
and Dec. 7. She writes without fear and tells
what she has seen, and how she has been treat-
ed by the "Mormon" people. In her first letter

[Column 2]
she speaks thus of her visit to Capt. Hooper's
soon after her arrival in this city:
	"I brought with me a letter of introduction to
him (Mr. Hooper), and as he was ill, his wife
came down and met me very cordially. I was
glad of an interview with Mrs. Hooper, for she
is an only wife, the mother of seven children.
One of her daughters is the wife of Prof.
Young, a son of Brigham's, who is one of the
corps of teachers at West Point Academy.
Mrs. Hooper is a believer in the Mormon re-
ligion, and a stout defender of its tenets. She
spoke with contempt of the Salt Lake Tribune,
declaring that if it did speak well of any Mor-
mon the rest would think that something was
wrong, so bitter and coarse had been its lan-
gauge and expressions toward them. The
Tribune editor had told me: 'It paid Hooper to
be a Mormon, and he didn't care anything about
it as a religion.'"
	The next item in her first letter is her visit to
the President of the Church. We give it com-
plete in her own language:
	"I was accompanied by Mrs. E. B. Wells to
the Gardo House to see President Taylor. This
gentleman is now President of the Church, and
has been since the death of Brigham Young.
He was one of the men in Carthage jail with
Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum when
they were killed by the mob. Taylor was hit by
four balls. He is a stern, grave, stately and in-
telligent man, 74 or 75 years of age. He was in
the act of starting, in company with George Q.
Cannon, down to Manti, and our conversation
was very brief. 'Mrs. S. is a newspaper cor-
respondent,' said Mrs. Wells. He smiled
gravely and said, 'All we crave of Mrs. S. is
that she will tell the truth about us. Very few
do that in speaking of us.' 'Believe me, Presi-
dent Taylor,' I replied, 'I shall give your side as
fairly as I can; I look through no glasses colored
by bitter prejudice. I shall state the facts as I
see them.' A few pleasant words to Mrs. W.
and he left us."
	After this follows a good description of the
Gardo House, the Beehive and Lion Houses and
the office buildings occupied by the Church.
She speaks at some length of these places and
what she saw, and then says:
	"Nothing can be more entertaining than the
long talks with Mrs. Young, hearing her tell of
the varied experiences in her journeyings
through the Territory for near 15 years, as the
companion of her husband. She has become
familiar with the people, especially the Indian
tribes, that the Mormons call the 'Lamanites'
from the Book of Mormon."
	She speaks of our judicial affairs intelligently
and approvingly, of her visits in Mormon
homes, the people she met with, etc. A com-
plete description of the Assembly Hall and the
impressive services on the Sabbath and the ad-
ministering of the Sacrament. Here is another
extract from her letter which may be of some
interest, as it shows the true feeling "Mormon"
women have when the sacred and holy condi-
tions of celestial marriage are compared with
the vile practices which exist so extensively in
large cities:
	"I was told by a very good Mormon member
that one of the commissioners had stated 'that
he felt sorry he had seen so little of the Mormon
families during their stay here.' I am certain
that no people living could be much more
patient under all of the Federal meddling with
their affairs than the Mormons are. They hold
their religious tenets with a dogged resolve, and
they claim all as under revelation, plural mar-
riage as well. Looking at it or trying to discuss
it from a physiological standpoint is one thing
that nettles the women of the better class as
much as anything well can. I was talking

[Column 3]
with a very intelligent Scotchman to-day, and
he was citing some cases regarding our foundl-
ing hospitals and ohter Christian charities, re-
sulting from vices, and made a remark of a
nature calculated to arouse the ire of my lady
friends, and it was some little time before I
could induce them to try and consider how much
bearing this would be bound to have in dis-
cussing a subject of such nature. We held a
very earnest conversation on this subject, and
I learned from them many interesting items
in regard to the religious effect on the vices of
great cities as contrasted by the lives of Mor-
mon people, where a child is welcomed joyfully
as affording a tabernacle for a spirit to dwell in."
	In her second letter Mrs. Saxon comments
upon the political situation in reference to John
T. Caine, the Delegate of the People's Party,
and Judge Van Zile, the "Liberal" candidate,
then gives it as her opinion that the ultimate
"effect of the Edmunds bill will be hard to fore-
cast. It is impossible to convince even those
Gentiles who incline most favorably to the
Mormon people, owing to their honest, frugal,
temperate lives, that plural marriage is not still
carried on, as it is one of their revelations, and
most cherished and sacred ordinances. Com-
mon sense tells us that to legislate and enforce
law in this direction will constitute a police sys-
tem of such a nature as to place every house
under the espionage of paid individuals, and the
results growing from such a system be a more
terrible evil than the one against which we are
fighting."
	Mrs. Saxon speaks of the faith of the "Mor-
mons" in this wise:
	"Believing, as they do, in the prophecies of
the 'Latter-day Saints,' they have every reason
to anticipate great and marked changes for
themselves, under the new order and conditions
that a change of national politics will inevitably
bring about. Persecution they expect from
every quarter, and some of them glory in it, for
it more firmly unites the church and renews
the zeal of the lukewarm, binding them as a
people more closely together. This may be
fanatical and weak to the last degree, but what
can you do with a stubborn fact? Sensible,
practical, matter of fact business men will sit
down and give you the Bible, old and new, the
prophecies of Moses and Smith alike, the book
of Mormon, and Doctrines and Covenants, with
as much zeal as an old Scotch Covenanter would
the Bible; declare that he holds all true alike,
and is ready to be offered up for his loyalty to
Joseph Smith. In this day of changing faiths,
let us look upon this resolute willingness to 'die
for a cause,' with an eye of sober judgment and
put passion by. The prophecies of the past, the
signs of the times, the spirit of the people, all
seem to indicate some great and nationally im-
portant event in the near future; and to a Mor-
mon 'Zion' is paramount to all else. They be-
lieve, and so express themselves, that we are
living in the 'last days,' and this modern 'Zion'
is the promised refuge of Israel. I am glad to
say that not until to-day have I had the pleasure
of reading the letter written by Phil. Robinson
to the New York World during the summer.
He bears out my assertions made in my two let-
ters first written."
	Here is another mention of Sunday services
made in her second letter to The Times:
	"I was at church to-day and heard George Q.
Cannon speak. He is one of the twelve apostles
of the Church and had just returned from a
week's visiting with President Taylor in the
Territory. He spoke to about 3,000 people. Not
one left the church. He told of the prosperity
of the people; of the union of sentiment among
them; of the desire to be faithful to all trusts
and loyal in every way to the general govern-


ment. That this vast crowd of people are 'serfs'
is as false on the face of it as anything well can
be. The one great feature is their union and
religious zeal, and the slight line of demarcation
drawn between rich and poor. Every one is
'sister' and 'brother.' The mistress is called
'sister' by the maid who cooks her dinner, and
affection of the most brotherly character is in-
culcated in every meeting. Strife is denounced,
and arbitration is the prevailing rule. Going in-
to law courts is most severely condemned."
	There are several other items in the letters
we should be pleased to notice but have only
space for one more at this time:
	"I was invited, with my hostess, to a surprise
party given a Mormon lady on her sixty-fourth
blrthday; and truth compels me to say that for
genuine, enjoyable hospitality and good-fellow-
ship, memory holds not its equal for many years
past. The party coming brought the refresh-
ments; every relative was informed, and many
of the fifty-four grandchildren of this 'Mother
in Israel' were on hand. Mrs. M. I. Horne and
her husband sat together, when Mrs. Weils
came forward, and, in a neat address, presented
her a magnificent photographic album, with her
friends' pictures within. Her good and noble
life was referred to with genuine heartiness.
Mrs. Horne responded briefly. One of the
daughters sang, the children joining in the
chorus. Then a lovely little poem, 'To Mother,'
was read by the eldest son. Then an original
song by one of her charity co-workers was sung,
all joining in the chorus. Mayor Jennings and
his agreeable wife, with other leading Mormons,
were present. He gave a toast to the lady; a
thanksgiving prayer was offered. Then came a
variety of refreshing delicacies, all handed
around by the sons, sons-in-law, daughters and
daughters in-law of the jovial but young-look-
ing couple, who looked as if they might travel
some time on the declining hill of life, and en-
joy it too, before they slept the final sleep at its
foot, when the fever of living is over. The
evening was essentially cheerful, but its pre-
vailing feature was its religious character. The
Mormon lives his religion in his daily life. The
graces at table, the reverential deference to
Deity, the thankfulness on all occasions are
something that is too real to be anything save
sincere and heartfelt."
	This highly cultured lady who has traveled
from Maine to Texas with her eyes open, and
visited women of all classes and in all condi-
tions, has not one word to say detrimental to
the Latter-day Saints. She came here to see
and to write, to learn facts as they actually
exist, and every opportunity possible in so short
a time was afforded her, to see and hear for her-
self. If more of those who visit Utah would
take pains to gather facts of their own observa-
tions for material to write about, there would be
much less prejudice against this people outside.
Her description of the Woman's Meeting in
this city was truthful and certainly calculated
to impress all who read it with the earnestness
and zeal of the sisters old and young, and the
effectual exertions made to train up the young
in the ways of the Lord, and to understand
their mission upon the earth, instead of en-
couraging them in the vanities and frivolities of
the world. She speaks of the "Mormon" wo-
men as having ideas of their own and express-
ing them with as much readiness as other
women, and that if they were not honest and
zealous in their religion they would make things
pretty lively for the men who are engaged in it.
Mrs. Saxon knows perfectly well that the ladies
whom she met here are earnest, devout Chris-
tians, and that they are working for a better
condition for humanity, in fact for the redemp-
tion of the human family.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 117


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE Unity Club will give an entertainment
on Thursday evening, Jan. 4, for the benefit
of the Deseret Hospital in the 12th Ward School-
house; the performance will commence at 7:30
o'clock. The programme is an excellent one
consisting of music, vocal and instrumental,
recitations and tableaux, historical and myth-
ological. The committee, Mrs. Maggie Jen-
nings, Mrs. Annie W. Cannon, Mrs. Nett Snell,
Miss Prissie Jennings, and Miss Talulah Young,
have labored earnestly, ardently and continuous-
ly to make the affair pleasing and successful.

	THE Primary concert in the 11th Ward, New
Year's night, was a splendid affair. The
chorus by one hundred and twenty-five voices
was well rendered and the exercises were all in
keeping. The fairy play "The Sleeping Beauty"
was a complete success; the costumes were
pretty and the piece was well presented. Mrs.
Louie Felt deserves great credit as also her as-
sistants who aided her in giving so pleasing an
entertainment. The object is a worthy one, to
benefit an institution for the sick and injured.
The programme is to be repeated for the benefit
of the children of the Association, and we hope
the house will be again crowded to its utmost
capacity in favor of the Association.

	THE Thirteenth Ward Sunday School children
had a time of rejoicing on Thursday, Dec. 28th
Great preparations were made by the Superin-
tendent, Wm. Naylor and his assistants, Wm.
Hennefer and Joseph Morris, also the ladies of
the Sunday School of the Ward, Mrs. Elizabeth
H. Goddard, Mrs. Susan Stringam, Misses
Rumel, Reading, and others. Three Christmas
trees were loaded with presents of a very great
variety and beautiful to look upon. The after-
noon was spent in dancing and pleasant pas-
times, and at 4 o'clock the distribution of pres-
ents begun; the were all numbered and a cor-
responding number given to the child that drew
the gift, which was handed down immediately
from the tree, and the recipient made happy.
Three special prizes were awarded for punctuality,
diligence, deportment, attendance and aiding in
the work. The first was awarded to little Clara
Lawson, seven years of age; second, Anna
Stromberg, and third, Lydia Hanks. There
were some exercises in music, singing, and reci-
tation that deserve special notice. Supt. George
Goddard offered prayer, then the hymn "When
Jesus shall come in His glory," was sung; after-
wards recitations, "Elder Orson Pratt, the ven-
erable Apostle," by little Clara Lawson; "The
old Soldier," by Master Thomas Sloan; "Bingen
on the Rhine," Miss Louie Platte; singing,
Miss Annie Peterson, "They'll miss me when
I'm gone;" Miss Anna Stromberg, "Bye and
bye you will forget me." Elder C. R. Savage
came in a few moments and sang "The Merry
Mormons" in his happiest manner; he also pre-
sented a handsome Bible, Sunday School teach-
er's edition, to the Superintendent, Wm. Nay-
lor, who has filled that position nearly seven
years. Brother Goddard sang the "Hazel Dell,"
and six little girls sang together very sweetly.
It was a pleasant interchange of kindly feelings
between old and young as well as a time to be
specially remembered by the little people. There
were over 300 children present, and as gay and
merry as possible. It was certainly quite a suc-
cess.

	ON Thursday, Dec. 28, 1882, a meeting was
called by the Bishop of the 20th Ward, to con-
vene in the schoolhouse at 2 o'clock p.m. Mrs.
E. S. Taylor, President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
Central Board, her counselor, Miss Mattie
Horne, and Mrs. E. B. Wells were present by
invitation, Bishop John Sharp took charge of

[Column 2]
the meeting and effected the following organiza-
tion after some consultation with the ladies
present. Elder L. W. Richards acted as secre-
tary. The following officers were sustained by
unanimous vote: Mrs. Lula Greene Richards,
president; Mrs. Annie G. Sharp and Miss Clara
J. Romney, counselors; Miss Celia Sharp, sec-
retary; Miss Emma Phillips, assistant secre-
tary, and Miss Nettie Sharp, treasurer. The
Bishop gave some excellent advice to the young
sisters, and Mrs. Taylor, Mrs. Miller, Mrs. Wells,
Mrs. Richards and Miss Horne each made some
appropriate and suggestive remarks to the young
people on the subject of their organization.

	THE entertainment arranged for the orphan
children of the 15th Ward on Christmas day,
was appropriate and commendable. To do good
is always in keeping with the example of our
Savior, but to bless and make happy the hearts
of the fatherless is certainly in accordance with
divine precepts. The Christmas trees were
handsomely trimmed and many of the articles
were made by the fair hands of the good sisters
who assisted Mrs. S. M. Kimball, as well as by
herself; she is very ingenious in making arti-
ficial birds, elephants, rabbits, camels, etc. The
trees were lighted up splendidly with petite
wax tapers, and the hall was like a fairy picture.
Presents, useful and ornamental, were distribut-
ed to the little folks and every heart made hap-
py. There were about thirty children present.
They will undoubtedly remember Sister Kim-
ball in after years as a sort of fairy godmother.
She has indeed proved herself a mother in
Israel.


IN MEMORIAM.

ARTEMISIA BEAMAN SNOW.

	It becomes a sad and painful duty to record
the demise of our dearly beloved Sister Arte-
misia, wife of Apostle Erastus Snow, who de-
parted this life at 12:30 a.m., just past midnight,
of the 21st of December, after a lingering illness
through which she evinced a spirit of fortitude
and resignation to the will of heaven, although
she dreaded the pang of death.
	She was the eighth and youngest child of Alva
Beaman and Sarah Burits Beaman, and was
born March 3, 1810, at Livonia, Livingston Co.,
New York, and was the mother of eleven chil-
dren, eight sons and three daughters, all of
whom are living except three. She was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints at an early date, and with her
father's family removed to Kirtland, Ohio,
where her father died in 1837, a much esteemed
and highly respected member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. With her
mother and two sisters, Mary and Louisa, she
removed to Missouri, where she was married to
Elder Erastus Snow, at Far West, Dec. 18th,
1838, by the late Heber C. Kimball. Soon after
she, with her husband. moved to Nauvoo,
Illinois, at the time of the expulsion of Saints
from Missouri through the exterminating order
of the notorious and vindictive Governor, Lil-
burn W. Boggs.
	Sister Artemisia was one of those who
officiated in the Nauvoo Temple. She might
truly be termed a wanderer in early life,
being in the persecutions and expulsions of
the Saints from Ohio, Missouri and Illinois.
She was in the first company that left Nauvoo
in February, 1846, crossing the Mississippi on
the ice. She drove a team across the plains in
1818, and came to St. George in 1861. She was
a faithful member of the Relief Society from
its first organization here, and also President of
the Y. L. M. I. Association when first organized
and was much beloved by all with whom she
associated.


Her sister Louisa was the first woman mar-
ried in the Patriarchal order of marriage, being
the second wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Her sister, Mary Adeline Noble, bore the first
child in this order of marriage. Sister Arte-
misia was a firm believer in this order of mar-
riage from its first institution, and freely gave
her consent for her husband to take other wives,
which law he obeyed and she lived and associat-
ed with them through life, and was ever a
mother, a comforter and companion to them;
each one of them bearing testimony to her
merit and worth, and I would refer the readers
of the EXPONENT to an address of her's pub-
lished in the issue of the 15th October last,
which more fully declares her sentiments.
	Thus has another noble spirit departed, one
whom we would gladly have retained in our
midst, and we truly feel the loss of her society,
and while we mourn her loss we testify of her
worth as a true Latter-day Saint. She was ever
genial and kind, a loving mother and generous
friend, kind to the poor and needy, a comforter
to the weary and oppressed. Sisters, be com-
forted; we shall meet her again, if we remain
faithful, in the morning of the first resurrec-
tion.
				FRANCES C. BROWN,
					Stake Secretary R. S.
	ST. GEORGE, Dec. 26, 1882.


118	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having, in company with Janie Loveland,
Counselor, and Lydia S. Pierce, Secretary, re-
cently returned from a highly interesting tour
through the northern portion of Box Elder
Stake, in the interests of our Y. L. M. I. A's.
I trust that a brief review of our journey and
labors may prove of interest to some of your
numerous readers.
	Bro. Chas. Kelley, Stake President of the Y.
M. M. I. A.'s, with his Counselor, N. Madsen,
also, R. Jones, Secretary, arranged to travel
with us, visiting, at the same time, their asso-
ciations in the settlements lying in the district
above mentioned. Accordingly, appoint-
ments were sent forward some days previous
to our starting.
	The morning fixed for leaving could scarcely
have been more unpropritious; a heavy, furious
snow and wind storm had set in, also, at inter-
vals, accompanied by pelting sleet, the
weather having turned severely cold. Several
of our friends advised us to abandon this un-
dertaking, an idea we could not foster for a
moment, that of allowing our appointments to
fail, while the gentlemen's were being ful-
filled. Therefore, we bundled up, stepped into
our vehicle, placed our feet on warm bricks,
improvised for the occasion, and gathering
more closely our wraps around us, indicated to
our symyathizing coachman that we were
quite ready.
	Having made a run of twenty miles, speak-
ing in railroad parlance, through snow, mud
and driving sleet, we arrived at Bear River
Crossing, stopped at Brother Standings, and
partook of refreshments generously prepared
by his estimable wife.
	We had now another twenty miles before us
ere we reached Portage, where we had an ap-
pointment at seven in the evening, and the
storm, the severe cold, and fierce wind not
abated. Here again was suggested by some of
the gentlemen the propriety of our returning,
but quite failed of eliciting any signs of weak-
ness. When within five miles of our destina-
tion, darkness overtook us, which, together
with the disagreeable circumstances already
mentioned, failed in adding much enchantment

[Column 2]
to the scene connected with this part of our
tour. We reached Portage, however, just in
season to dispel the cold chills, warm up, and
be on time to fill our appointment. We had a
very interesting and profitable meeting, the
Spirit of the Lord being abundantly poured
out both upon speakers and hearers. At the
close of the addresses, we attended to some
matters relating to the more complete organi-
zation of the Young Ladies Association.
	Having been very hospitably entertained,
we proceeded next morning on our way, and
after a drive of about twenty miles, arrived at
Malad City, Idaho, where we held a very in-
teresting meeting with the Y. L. A., number-
ing about seventy-five members, and in a very
prosperous condition. The day following, we
held a conjoint meeting of the members of the
Y. L. and Y. M. M. I. Associations, filled
several vacancies, and effected three new or-
ganizations. Having here finished our inter-
esting labors; we took leave of the hospitable
Bishop and family, together with numerous
warm-hearted friends, and proceeded on to
Samaria, some ten miles distant, still in Idaho.
Here the meetinghouse was filled to overflow-
ing and the Good Spirit prevailed, and all re-
joiced together, visitors and visited, a time
never to be forgotten. Having attended to the
business required, we left this interesting
locality, and turned our faces homeward.
	Our next appointment was looked forward
to with unusual and extraordinary interest, at
the little city of Washikee, a Lamanite settle-
ment of about two hundred inhabitants, located
some three miles south of West Portage, in
Box Elder Co., presided over by Bishop Zun-
del, assisted by Brothers Ward and Hunsaker.
We were informed they had over two thousand
acres enclosed, six or seven hundred under
cultivation, had harvested upwards of three
thousand bushels of grain this season, had
quite a number of cows, a large herd of sheep,
many horses, and were well supplied with
wagons, farming implements, etc. We noticed
several fine brick houses, and were told they
burned their lime, made their brick, and
hauled all their building material themselves.
They have a large commodious frame building
which serves for their schools and meetings; a
very excellent school is now in progress, con-
sisting of thirty-five or forty young Lamanite
girls and boys, under the superintendency of
Brother Chandler, a very efficient and ex-
perienced teacher, who rejoices in this labor
and mission. We were informed that his dusky
pupils compared favorably with our white
children as regards their intellect, aptness and
readiness to acquire book knowledge, etc. We
were joyfully received on our arrival at this
curious and unique gathering, and warmly
greeted by hearty hand shaking, in which all
gladly participated. We gazed with wonder,
with feelings impossible to describe, upon these
Indian Saints as they were gathered and
seated in their assembly hall. The women,
neatly attired in hats, bonnets and shawls,
carrying their babes in their arms instead of
upon their backs, according to their former
custom. The men dressed the same as our
white brethren, with hair cut short, neatly
combed, etc.; and to crown all, making this
scene so impressive and solemn, was the sacred
and earnest devotion impressed upon every
feature of their countenances, while their choir
chanted praises to the Lord in their native
tongue, and one of their number opened the
meeting by prayer in the same language. When
the time was announced for commencing meet-
ing, the Indian Deacon, with becoming gravity,
and a reasonable amount of official importance
and dignity, drew from his breast pocket a
large brass key, with which he ceremoniously
locked the door; then taking the key and re-
placing it, he resumed his seat; arising there-

[Column 3]
after only to quietly admit some tardy member,
or reluctantly allow egress to an anxious appli-
cant. The order and attention observed
throughout the entire services were highly ex-
emplary.
	There was not a sufficient number of young
Lamanite sisters to form an independent or-
ganization, so we concluded to unite them, for
the time being, with the Young Men's Associa-
tion, and appointed a young lady to act as sec-
retary. The good Spirit manifested here,
warmed our hearts, giving utterance to our
thoughts as freely as at any of our previous
meetings, and its sweet and holy influences
were equally felt by the listeners.
	Leaving this singular community of Indian
Saints, formerly known only as savages, we
proceeded to fill our next appointment at Bear
River City, about thirty miles distant, where
we were very kindly received, and addressed a
large and appreciative audience. We were
pleased to find our association here in good con-
dition, spirited, and wide awake to their re-
sponsibilities.
	About three miles from this place we filled
our last engagement at the thriving little town
called Honeyville. We then drove home, ar-
riving in safety, our hearts overflowing with
gratitude to the Giver of All Good, for His
blessings, preserving care, and the aid of His
Holy Spirit accompanying and inspiring our
labors.
				MINNIE J. SNOW,
					Supt. Y. L. M. I. A.
	Brigham City, Dec. 27, 1882.

LOGAN CITY, Nov. 9, 1882.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I send you these few lines to put in your
paper, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, as I thought
you would like to know how our Primary As-
sociation of the First Ward of Logan is get-
ting along. I am only twelve years old and
am a teacher in the Association, and can tell
you with truth that I do all I can to help my
President, Sister Lundburg, with the Primary.
I sometimes sing and dismiss meeting and bear
my testimony, and with my sister teacher,
Maud Lamoreaux, gather money or calico for
the benefit of our Primary. I think God is
very good to give us health and strength, that
we may perform all the duties that are required
of us; and I know God is good to His chil-
dren, if we obey our parents, say our prayers
and do what is right. And if we read the
Bible and other good books, we will find God's
word is true, what He has said about His com-
ing on the earth to reign with His people.
	Hoping yon will find space in your good
paper, I remain your sister in the Gospel,
					SELINA P. BURTON.

PLAIN CITY. Dec. 18, 1882.

	On Friday, Nov. 24, at ten o'clock a. m.,
our little folks comprising the Plain City Pri-
mary Association assembled at the School
House to hold their Quarterly Conference and
to go through their exercises in singing, recit-
ing, etc. They number one hundred and
thirty.nine members. The meetings are inter-
esting and well attended. The children ac-
quitted themselves during the Conference to
the satisfaction of their parents, teachers and
friends. The pieces in the programme were
well chosen, and of that character that tends
to the elevation and ennobling of the minds of
those who partake of them. The exercises
were brought to a close with some short yet
excellent advice by Bishop L. W. Shurtliff and
Sisters Raymond and Shoemaker; they spoke
very encouragingly, and exhorted the children
to keep on in the good work in which they are
engaged. The little folks then partook of a
picnic, in which they enjoyed themselves ex-


[Column 1]
ceedingly well, after which they spent a few
hours in dancing, retiring to their homes at a
reasonable hour.
			JOSEPHINE CHRISTENSEN, Sec'y.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Fair on the 24th of September,
and although it was pretty good for such a
small settlement, still it did not quite come up
to our expectations. In our display might be
named, a box of charcoal, burned in the moun-
tains by a very little boy, some very nice
brackets, cornucopias, tidies, a very nice wind
mill by one of the little boys, a very nice
watch pocket done in wool, wool flowers, draw-
ings, lots of things too numerous to mention.
We had a visit from some of the sisters of
Payson and Santaquin, who gave us good in-
struction.
	We also held our annual meeting on the
21st of October, when the little folks were
treated to refreshments. They had some good
instructions from the sisters, after which they
joined in the dance for a short time, when all
went home in the best of humor.
	Wishing the EXPONENT every success, we
remain your sisters in the Gospel,
			SARAH ROBERTS, President.
			CHRISTINA HIGGINSON, Secretary.
	Goshen, Nov. 14, 1882.

WASATCH STAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of Wasatch
Stake was held in Heber City Hall, Nov. 16,
1882, Mrs. Emma Brown presiding. On the
platform were the second counselor, Mrs. Mary
Daybell and the presidents of the different
branches in the Stake. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
and Mrs. E. B. Wells from Salt Lake City,
Bishop Rasband and other brethren. After
usual exercises and reading of minutes Mrs.
Young made a few encouraging remarks, felt
glad to see the sisters coming together to learn
the ways of the Lord. The Wards were then
represented, East Heber by Mrs. Rasband;
West Heber by Mrs. Foreman, Midway, Mrs.
Charlotte Gurney; Charleston, Mrs. Melissa
Murdock; Centre, Mrs. Cluff. Mrs. Wells
made some remarks in regard to the improve-
ment of the sisters who attend their meetings,
spoke of the Deseret Hospital, and made some
explanations in regard to the donations from
the Societies, said there had been a great deal
expended in fitting up the institution to make
it convenient and comfortable for the patients.
She urged the sisters to dovote a potion of time,
if it was only one hour or half hour in a day
to reading good books and cultivating their
minds, and also to read the papers and become
conversant with what was transpiring in the
world, instead of working so hard as she felt
sure many of them did. Knowledge we can
take with us when we go home but not our
worldy goods. Bishop Rasband said he felt
pleased with the meeting and asked the Lord
to bless the sisters who had come to counsel
and instruct the sisters in their duties in this
Stake of Zion. Singing, benediction by Bro.
Todd.
	Afternoon Session: Singing. Prayer by Bro.
Todd, singing. Mrs. Wells made some remarks
upon faith and the peculiar significance of the
hour, and expressed her pleasure at seeing
so many of the brethren attend the Confer-
ence. Mrs. Young spoke of the training
of the children, urged the mothers to keep
them around them and teach them prin-
ciples of the Gospel, and enjoined upon
them to know where their children were at
night. Advised the sisters to read the Book
of Mormon, the book of Doctrine and Coven-
ants, and they would receive spiritual life and
strength therefrom and increase in faith and
be better qualified to rear their children.

[Column 2]
	President Hatch made some interesting re-
marks and suggested that Sister Watson act
temporarily in the place of Sister Muir as the
latter was living at present in Salt Lake City.
President Hatch felt pleased to have the sisters
from Salt Lake come to visit us. Mother
Duke bore a testimony to the truth of the
Gospel. President Brown felt pleased with
the counsel that had been given, and thought
we had enjoyed a good time together. Con-
ference adjourned for three months. Singing
and benediction.
			MARY BRONSON, Sec.
			AVIS M. BRONSON, Ass't Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 119


MARRIED.

	Mr. Samuel G. Spencer, of Pleasant Green,
son of the late Daniel and Mary Jane C. Spen-
cer, and Miss Emma Gedge, of Brighton Ward,
eldest daughter of William and Rachel Gedge,
were joined in. holy wedlock, by counselor
Daniel H. Wells, Thursday, December 21,
1882. They are a very handsome and prom-
ising young couple; and are starting out on
life’s journey very young, with every indication
of a bright and happy future before them. They
celebrated the occassion by giving a party and
supper at the bridegroom’s residence. We join
with their many friends in wishing them long
life, happiness and prosperity.		A. S. H.
	The EXPONENT congratulates the newly
wedded pair Mr. and Mrs. Spencer, and wishes
for them every blessing and experience that
will help them to secure the highest exaltation.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

SAN JUAN RIVER, New Mexico,
				Dec. 20, 1882.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I had fondly hoped to have seen you, with
many of my dear sisters and friends in Utah
ere this, but fate has decided otherwise. I
burried another precious baby boy the eighth
of September last, and on the nineteenth of
the same month I started on a visit to the
North, thinking that the society of friends and
relatives might help to soothe the grief that
seemed to make the future look so dark. My one
little girl was with me, and in company with
some other acquaintances we reached Moab,
Emery Co., where I concluded to remain a few
weeks with a brother. While there the sad
news came to me of the death of Mrs. Matilda
Burnham, who died the 13th of October, six
hours after giving birth to a son, her eleventh
child. She was in the 33d year of her age,
was the wife of Luther C. Burnham and
daughter of John and Eliza Barnett. For
the last five years she, with the rest of the
family, has been laboring as missionaries to
the Navajoes, and by them she was much be-
loved. Previous to her moving to this coun-
try, she resided at Hyde Park, Cache Co., and
was an active and devoted member of the
Relief Society. Her sudden death cast a
gloom over all her friends and especially to
her own family was it sad, to whom she was
a loving wife, a kind mother and sister, and
a pleasant companion and is deeply mourned
for by all who had the pleasure of her ac-
quaintance. After receiving this sad message,
I returned home at once and with the help of
the Lord will do all I am capable of for the
bereaved family.
	There are only eight sisters in this place,
making it very lonely at times. Sister Aba-
gail Stevens is a faithful nurse and a great
help in times of sickness and trouble. Oh!
how often we think of the great and good
times you have at your meetings in Salt Lake,
and so wish for the time to come when we may

[Column 2]
enjoy the blessed influence that ever attends
such gatherings. The sweet spirit there en-
joyed would help to lift us above the cares of
this life. We trust we are not forgotten by
these same dear sisters whom we regard as the
greatest and best women that live upon the
earth. How thankful we should all feel for
the light of the Gospel that all may enjoy if
humble and prayerful, and how can they live
who are not prayerful? I fear we are too care-
less in regard to this. There is no comfort
like the Spirit of God, that will ever abide
with us if we seek faithfully for it. How
much we have to be grateful for that the world
knows nothing of. We have pure and upright
men for husbands and fathers, and we have
perfect confidence in them knowing that the
secret acts of their lives would bring no dis-
grace on us, or our innocent children. Have
the women of the world this confidence in their
"Leige Lords," would to heaven they had;
there would be many an aching heart lighter,
many desolate homes happier, many innocent
girls saved from the terrible fate that awaits
them through the evils of the present genera-
tion. Do we need the pity of the world? For
my part I think it would be better if they
would pity the condition of their own souls,
and try to save them and not worry so much
about the women of the Latter-day Saints,
who are many times better off than they them-
selves are. In conversation not long since
with a Gentile gentleman, he told me that he
had understood that all the wives who entered
a family after the first wife, did so as servants
to the first family. I assured him that the
people called "Mormons," were too intelligent
and independent to be slaves that all wives
were equal, the marriage ceremony being ex-
actly the same for each wife.
	I have been much interested in Mrs. Scott's
letters and pleased that so many of our sisters
reply to them, have often wished I Mas capable
of so doing, but I trust that she with every
honest hearted person may become convinced
of the Truth, for that will bring more peace
and satisfaction than any amount of wealth
and grandeur could do. We are having love-
ly weather now almost like summer. The
merry holidays will soon be here. God grant
that the New Year may be a happy one for
the Saints; and for all who love to do right.
Success to the EXPONENT always. It comes
like a dear old friend and cheers many a lone-
ly home.	MARY STEWART BURNIIAN.

FILLMORE CITY,
	Dec. 12th, 1882.

DEAR MRS. SCOTT:
	As I am a reader of the EXPONENT, have
become very much interested in you also in
your questions and the answers by the Sisters,
on our religious principles I bear my testimony
to you, that they are every word true and em-
anate from the holy laws of God the Eternal
Father.
	I obeyed the Gospel in the Far South at the
early age of 13 years, have never doubted for
one moment since of the truth of this work,
it being 31 years last August since I became a
member of the Chnrch of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints; my husband entered into
the order of Celestial Marriage with my full
and free consent, and I have lived 21 years
in that order of Marriage and I bear my tes-
timony to you that it is true and emanates
from a Superior Power than that of man.
	I do not deny the petty trials of life, those
who are most tried are most triumphant, do
we wish to live here without a trial? then
we would wish to die but half prepared for an
exaltation. We must taste the bitter to appre-
ciate the sweet. Our blessed Lord and Sav-
ior passed through the severest of trials with-
out a murmur, and we must not not expect a


salvation without striving for it, stars shine
brightest in the darkest night, difficulties are
things that show what we are, God has pitted
us against rough antagonists, for what end?
that we may prove Olympic conquerors; and
this cannot be without toil. You say you can-
not accept any religion that will not bear sift-
ing. Our religion will bear sifting, shaking,
turning inside out, there is not one principle
but that can stand the test. Investigate with
pure and honest motives and your harvest will
be rich.
	I believe you to be a woman of true integ-
rity, and will say, Dear Lady, please listen to
and obey the still small voice that whispers to
you from day to day, that the religion so called
"Mormonism" is true; and have a testimony
for yourself and gather to Zion where you can
hear the good word of God proclaimed from
time to time, that will comfort and strengthen
you, and enable you to bear all things patient-
ly. Those who are filled with the love of God
and his laws take no note of petty trials, but
pass them by and say all tend to purify and
sanctify. I bear this my testimony to you with
a loud voice although my body is frail; I have
been an invalid for five years, these are the
sentiments of my heart in, reading your corres-
pondence a great desire came over me to bear
my testimony to you, and hope it will be of
worth. I remain an ernest watcher of your
conversion to the truth.	THE UNKNOWN.


120	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISCELLANEOUS.

	The sword is but a hideous flash in the
darkness—right is an eternal ray.—Victor
Hugo.

	A good conscience is the palace of Christ;
the temple of the Holy Ghost; the paradise
delight; the standing Sabbath of the saints.—
Augustine.

	In Washington, D. C., Dec. 8, 1882, Mr.
Bingham, of Pennsylvania, chairman of the
committee on postoffices and postcards, report-
ed a bill in the House reducing letter postage
to two cents, and it was referred to the com-
mittee of the whole.

	Dr. Marie Zakrzewska, at the recent Wo-
man's Congess in Portland, spoke first of con-
vent life and its effect upon the health. Nuns
live the quietest and most retired life, all their
time engaged in occupations entirely feminine.
But they fade and grow sick and old sooner
than if they were more actively engaged. Di-
ametrically opposed to these are the fashiona-
ble women whose existence is one round of
gaiety and excitement. They fade and wear
away almost as soon as the religious devotees.
The women who are engaged in industrial oc-
cupations do not have a long lease of life and
health. The settled and unvarying hours of
labor, the close confinement, the noise and con-
fusion of the machinery to which they are con-
stantly subjected, the continued absorption of
interest in one direction—all combine to sap
their bloom and strength. In professional life,
Dr. Zakrzewska placed all women engaged in
any kind of active work which calls for the
exercise of all the faculties. She would have
it include not only physicians, ministers, law-
yers, and all who are usually classed as profes-
sionals, but also nurses, housekeepers, book-
keepers, all who have a definite occupation re-
quiring knowledge and skill and calling into
play more than one set of faculties. These, she
said,are the healthiest women. They stay young
and fresh longer than any other class, and as
they grow old are better preserved, both men-
tally and physically. The health of women
generally is much better now than in former
days, but there is still much that needs to be
remedied,—Ex.

[Column 2]
	O flattery, how potent is thy sway; how wide
the bounds of thy pleasing jurisdiction !—Cer-
vantes.

	Books, are the true levellers. They give to
all who faithfully use them the society, the
spiritual presence of the greatest and best of
our race.—Channing.

	A Boston paper is in "favor of women
voting if they want to." A Western paper
"would like to see the man who would make
them vote if they did'nt want to."

	Helen M. Gougar, editor of Our Herald, has
sued Harry Mandler, chief of police, and Chas.
Pook, for libel, and claims damages in $10,000.
This is a straightforward and eminently proper
course to be taken by an injured party.

	It is only a step from the sublime to the ri-
diculous. We read that "Madam Adelina
Patti was invested with the Order of Kapiola-
ni, recently, by the Chamberlain of King
Kalakaua. The order is a star on a red and
white striped ribbon, and was accompanied by
a letter on parchment from His Majesty."
What an honor.

	The rights of woman are obtaining recogni-
tion in Norway. The parliament has just
passed a law, which the King has signed, giv-
ing women the privilege of attending the uni-
versities and applying for degrees in all the
arts and sciences; but the right to hold office
in the service of the state and of participating
in the competitive examinations for such posi-
tions is not yet accorded them.

	A meeting of the executive committee of the
fair for aged and friendless women was held
recently at the house of the president, Mrs. Dr.
Carelton, who presided. Accounts were ren-
dered in from the various tables and other
connections of the fair, sufficient to make it
evident that the net receipts will exceed $2,-
000. A vote of thanks to the president was
enthusiastically passed.

	MADAME SARAH BERNHARDT'S engagement
for South America, the preliminary details of
which the Figaro was the first to announce two
months ago, is, I understand, not yet quite a
fait accompli. Certain details have yet to be
settled. Still the contract, onerous as it is, is
more workable than the first proposition by
which Madame Bernhardt wished to be paid
£300 a night even while she was traveling
from place to place. The new contract is, it is
understood, for £33,000 for fifty performances,
the services of M. Damala being included. This
is at rate of £660 a night, certainly a larger
sum than has ever before been paid to any
dramatic artist. Should Madame Bernhardt
go to South America, she will be absent from
April to September, and will compensate Mr.
Mayer for the loss of his London season at the
Gaiety.—Ex.

	An old Quaker lady of Nantucket, in a
private letter to Dr. Sarah J. McNutt, of New
York, gives a number of curious items from
the genealogy of the island. One of these we
are permitted to quote: "Rachel Bunker, wi-
dow of Dan (?) Bunker, and previously widow
of Barnabas Coleman, and daughter of Sylva-
nus and Abiel Hussey, died 11th mo., 9th,
1796, after an illness of 48 hours; aged 80
years, 6 mo., 23 days. During her time she
discovered much Christian fortitude and resig-
nation, and closed a life of usefulness with
calmness and serenity. She has been for 33
years eminent and successful in her profession,
having in that time assisted at the birth of
2,992 children (30 pairs of twins). She had 12
children, 113 grandchildren and 94 great-
grandchildren." We commend this case to the
attention of those who think professional life
incompatible with maternity.—Ex.

[Column 3]
	The Utah Commission, in a report to the
Secretary of the Interior, recommends that the
women of Utah be deprived of the ballot as a
means of suppressing polygamy. The most in-
telligent women of the civilized world will re-
commend that the present commission to Utah
be supplanted by men of common sense and
ordinary honesty.—Denver Queen Bee.


﻿KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH.
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4th East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ SPRING AND SUMMER GOODS. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75,77, & 79, First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

