Vol. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1882.									No. 12.


THE LADY PHYSICIAN.
			SENT TO DR. R. B. PRATT.

Oh, who is this, who casts her rose of youth

	Beneath the feet of pain, nor fancieth
The lily of her ladyhood, in sooth,
	Too white to bloom beside tha couch of death?

It is the woman healer here who stands
	With tender touch upon the cruel knife;
With thorough graven brows and skillful hands,
	And yearning heart to save the house of life.

Bless her, O women, for it was your call,
	It was the myriad cry of your distress,
That urged her outward from the cloistered hall
	To make the burden of your anguish less.

Shine on her, stars, while forth she goes alone
	Beneath the night, by angel pity led;
And shed such luster as your rays have thrown
	On bridal steps that chime with lover’s tread.

Her pathway scent, O flowers that fleck the field,
	As from her hurrying feet the dews are driven,
With no less fragrance than your clusters yield
	By dimpled hands to happy mothers given.

And ye, O men who watch her toilsome days
	With doubtful lip in half dernsion'curled,
Scant not her meed of courtesies and praise,
	The bloom and starlight of the spirit world.

For with a sense of loss too fine to own,
	The nestward longing of the carrier dove,
She turneth from her first, entitled throne,
	And all the household walks that women love.

The gracious ministers of little deeds
	And service for the few, by love made sweet;
From these she turneth unto wider needs,
	And pours her ointment on the stranger’s feet.

Perchance, amid the clash of busy days,
	She may lay by a trick or two of charms,
May miss of those caressing, dainty ways
	That women learn from babies in their arms.

But even while the battle scars her face,
	And makes her voice stern on the combat rude,
She but refines her best, peculiar grace,
	And proves her self-forgetful womanhood.
					KATHARINE LEE BATES.
From the Boston Transcript.


[COLUMN 1]
MEMORY THE CURSE OR BLESSING
			OF EXISTENCE.
			BY HANNAH T. KING.
	November the fourth, 1882. Evening—as
usual I am alone, and yet, not by any means
alone, or lonely; my brain is all alive with a
vision of the PAST, memory by her mystical
power draws back with soft and gentle hand
a curtain, and a marvelous panorama opens to
my view.  I behold a river, yes the classic
waters of the Cam roll at my feet; a group
of kind and watchful friends are around
me not the friends of my youth, not my
blood relations, no, they are away; afar
off in every sense of the word; they are not
cognizant of the step I am about to take.
'Twould have been vain to apprize them,
they would not have condescended even to
listen to me; so after mature reflection, I decide
to take the step that I feel will revolutionize
my life.
	Alone! Yet no, not all alone, one loving,
clinging spirit—“bone of my bone and flesh of
my flesh,” and far more still, twin spirit of
my soul, holds my hand and whispers, “let me
go with you, I desire with all my heart to go
[COLUMN 2]
with you ? I knew that request was not made
“lightly, or unadvisedly,” and at that awfully
grand moment of my life, when about to
pass into the womb of waters it felt so sweet to
have something of my own, on which to press
even a finger, that I assented and we two
entered the waters of baptism together.  This
is the scene that memory holds up to me this
night; and all is as vivid to my mind, as when
it actually took place.  Every word, every
look,the whole scene is as it were photographed
upon my heart and brain, never to be erased.
	An American Elder administered the rite of
baptism by immersion, we were verily buried
in the liquid grave, and came forth most cer-
tainly to a new life, temporally, spiritually and
eternally!  Then appeared the Holocaust,
but strength was given, the sacrifice was laid
upon the altar!  and the ordeal was passed!
Thirty-two years this day have revolved over
me since these scenes were enacted, during
which I have passed the “changes and chances”
that inevitably follow:  dark days, privations,
bereavements, sickness almost unto death, and
all the ordeals that a true Latter-day Saint has
to pass through.  Yet I have never seen the
first moment, that I regretted the step I then
took or wished that I could recall the act, or go
back to my former state or associations. My
former life had decidedly been a happy and a
prosperous one, yet through all there was a
vacuum, but through all the reverse of scenes
described above, I have never felt a vacuum!
even when I could not help suffering under
reverses, still there was no sigh, no groan of
regret, or the least desire to return.  The
language of my soul was on!  on!  there is sun-
shine behind this cloud.  I felt a power sus-
taining me, softening the rough path to me,
raising up friends to comfort and support me,
even to a romance; I met them on the ship, on
the steamer, in the encampments, crossing the
wild prairies, met them in the city, they walked
and talked with me, comforted and invigorated
my weakened system, and were to me as “An
angel in the way.” If one was taken, another
came to supply the vacant place, and so life
progressed till like a child learning to walk,—
I walked out of "“leading strings,” and felt I
could stand alone with my God!  Death took
some of the most efficient, but I grasped “the
rod of iron,” and found I was “coming up from
the wilderness leaning on the arm of the
Beloved.” Him, whose name I took upon me
at the waters of baptism, and hence all was
well—is well to-day.  The kind and loving
voices of other days are away in the eternities;
but still kind friends are around me; and I am
happy and contented.  I have grown out of
babyhood, childhood, and youth, and have at-
tained a degree of maturity, being thirty-
two years old at six o’clock this evening
in the Church of Jesus Christ, and the
embryo kingdom of God upon the earth.
I rejoice in this grand Latter-day work,
when “all things shall be gathered in
one.” “One Lord, one faith, one baptism.”
The Lord said, “gather me together a people
who have made a covenant with me,
by sacrifice.” Yes, sacrifice is the sign of the
covenant, but “the oil of gladness” is ever
round, and about the altar—and the Spirit of
the living God sustains and animates the votary
of Latter-days. There is through all, a peace,
joy, a satisfaction that the religions of the
world cannot give, or their recipients enjoy.
Many that have come into the Church poor, 
h
"ave become rich, but if they still retain their
"first love” of the Gospel of Christ, they would
lay all down as dust on the balance, if such
became an impediment in their path to the
eternal riches promised the faithful, faithful
even unto the end—even unto death.
	This is my testimony living or dying.  This
is the language of my heart, and brain.  I
have tried to be an apt pupil in the school of the
Lord, for verily “Mormonism” is the school
of the Lord, in which all are prepared for that
higher school, into which all will be received
who can present credentials that will procure
for them the higher forms of the House of
God, which is eternal in the Heavens.
	Let us as Latter-day Saints, walk cautiously,
quietly, calmly, with our eyes lifted up above
the riches of the earth, which perish even in
the using; that when the summons arrives for
our departure, we may feel ready, and the
voice of our heart exclaim Gloria in Excelsia
Dei.


ECONOMY IN THE HOME.

DEAR EDITOR:
	Perhaps some of the wives who read your
paper are sometimes puzzled to know what to
get to eat and will be glad to hear others tell
what their husbands like. My husband likes
pancakes, but would not get them often now,
when eggs are twenty-five cents per dozen, if
my neighbor had not given me the recipe for
what she calls the "Hard-time pancakes." I
tried her plan of beating up thoroughly to-
gether flour, salt, buttermilk and soda, into a
batter thin enough to pour, and fried quickly
with plenty of lard, it makes a delicious dish
for breakfast, and will answer occasionally as a
substitute for meat; By "plenty of lard" I
do not mean that one should use as much as is
used to fry crullers or fritters, especially now
when lard is seventeen cents per lb., but have
the griddle or skillet well greased.
	My husband is also very fond of Chili Sauce
which I make by chopping up fine, four large
onions, twelve large ripe tomatoes, three red
peppers; adding then salt, three teaspoonfuls
each of ginger, whole cloves and ground cinna-
mon, seven tablespoonfuls of sugar, and three
teacupfuls of vinegar, boiling all together for
an hour and seal up hot.
	I read in your paper, a very interesting ar-
tickle, some time ago, about saving small things.
The writer spoke of the value of the sunflower.
When gathering my sunflower seeds this fall, I
remembered the article and ask permission to
add that its stalk makes very good kindling
wood; and to suggest to some enterprising
person the possibility of using the seeds for
dying purposes, as they stain the hands a deep
purple color which will not rub off easily.
	Now before I close I will tell the young
ladies what my little girl is making; perhaps
some of them would be glad of the suggestion,
to make something for a Christmas gift to a
sister, cousin or aunt. It may be old to many.
She has taken a cow horn, after the butcher
cleaned the inside of it, and after scraping the
outside with glass until it was smooth, she
pasted small transfer pictures on it, and is
varnishing it now; after the varnish dries she
will make small holes through the top and
tip through which she will put a fancy cord or
a ribbon, and it will make a beautiful orna-
ment for the corner of the parlor to hold a
winter bouquet.		EMILY SCOTT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Among the many pleasing incidents within
my recollection, was the sight of a large Flat-
boat loaded with English Saints, who were
obliged to leave the steamer at Keokuck, in
consequence of low water. They were singing
the sweet songs of Zion, as they came up the
river at the close of the day, and landed near
the Prophet's house, where stood scores of the
Saints; also many outsiders had gathered there,
and Joseph too, who welcomed them to Zion.
	At another time the "Maid of Iowa," in com-
mand of Capt. Dan Jones, brought a company
of two hundred and fifty Saints from New
Orleans, who, after unlooked for circumstances,
causing a tedious journey of five weeks, arrived
safely at Nauvoo, where Joseph and hundreds
of the Saints were on the shore waiting to greet
them with a warm and hearty welcome. A
short but interesting account of their eventful
voyage was given by Sister Priscilla M.
Staines, in the "Women of Mormondom." She
was one of the passengers and happened to be
an instrument in the hands of Providence to
give the alarm of fire, or the boat would soon
have been in flames. This was at Memphis,
Tenn. Some villain placed a half consumed
cigar under a straw mattress, and other bed-
ding that had been laid out of the ladies cabin
to air.
	They were mobbed and insulted at nearly
every place where they stopped, by the citizens
along the river. They were not persecuted for
polygamy—it was not upon those grounds that
mobs collected and threw "stones through the
cabin windows, smashing the glass and sash,
and jeopardizing the lives of the passengers,"
for they had not heard of polygamy being
practiced by the "Mormons," but they were
treated more barbarously than foreign emi-
grants are treated to-day. So we know that
Polygamy is only an excuse, and a most flimsy
one too. This was their first experience in
America, our boasted land of liberty- a refuge
and home for the oppressed of all nations.
Mobbing peaceful emigrants for nothing else,
only that they were "Mormons.
	During the winter of 1843, there were plenty
of parties and balls, and many were held at
the Mansion. The last one that I attended
there that winter, was on Christmas Eve.
Some of the young gentlemen got up a series
of dancing parties, to be held at the Mansion
once a week. My brother William put his
name down before asking father’s permission,
and when questioned about it made him
believe that he must pay the money for himself
and lady, whether he went or not, and that he
could not honorably withdraw from it. He
carried the day, but I had to stay at home, as
my father had been warned by the Prophet to
keep his daughter away from there, because of
the blacklegs and certain ones of questionable
character who attended there. His wife Emma
had become the ruling spirit, and money had
become her God. I did not betray William,
but I felt quite sore over it, and thought it a
very unkind act in father to allow him to go
and enjoy the dance unrestrained with others
of my companions, and fetter me down, for no
girl loved dancing better than I did, and I
really felt that it was too much to bear. It
made the dull school still more dull, and like
a wild bird I longed for the freedom that was
denied me; and thought myself a much abused
child, and that it was pardonable if I did mur-
mur. I imagined that my happiness was all
over, and brooded over the sad memories of
sweet departed joys and all manner of future
woes, which (by the by) were of short dura-
tion, my bump of hope being too large to ad-
mit of my remaining long under the clouds;
besides my father was very kind and indulgen

[Column 2]
in other ways, and always took me with him,
when mother could not go, and it was not a
very long time before I became satisfied that I
was blessed in being under the control of so
good and wise a parent, who had taken coun-
sel and thus saved me from evils, which some
others in their youth and inexperience, were
exposed to, though they thought no evil. Yet
the busy tongue of scandal did not spare
them.
	A moral may be drawn from this truthful
story. "Children obey thy parents," etc. And
also, “Have regard to thy name; for that shall
continue with you above a thousand great
treasures of gold." "A good life hath but few
days; but a good name endureth forever.”
	The first New Year's eve after the Prophet
moved into the Mansion, our choir, under the
leadership of Stephen Goddard, to which I be-
came a member some time previous, gave them
a serenade.
	We met at our usual place of practice, on
the hill near the Temple, and although the
night was unfavorable, being dark and rainy,
we, nothing daunted, started out between
twelve and one o'clock, we struck up and sang
the New Year's hymn. The inmates were
highly gratified, and the Prophet came out
and invited us to come in; but being late we
declined. After singing one or two Anthems
he pronounced his blessing upon the orchestra
and choir, which repaid the brethren and sisters
for all their trouble.
	William Cahoon, John Pack, Stephen Hale
and wives, William Pitt, William Clayton,
Jacob Hutchinson, James Standing and many
more, too numerous to mention, were members
of the choir, and most of the brethren belonged
to William Pitt's Brass Band. We enjoyed
together many happy seasons, though of short
duration.
	Our Music Hall was built one block east of
the Temple, but was not finished till after the
death of the Prophet. Previous to that we
held an occasional concert in the Masonic Hall,
which, according to history, was considered
"the most substantial and best finished Masonic
Temple in the Western States."
	We were not wanting for amusements, even
in the midst of some of the most trying scenes;
the Latter-day Saints seldom drooped or pined
for their [insert symbol]"Leeks and Onions," but adapted
themselves to circumstances with an excellent
grace.
	Our first dramatic entertainments were given
in the Nauvoo Masonic Hall- in the spring of
1844, under the direction of Thomas A. Lyne
and George J. Adams- the latter claiming
Heber C. Kimball as his father in the Gospel,
took up his abode with us whenever he came
to our city; was there during the summer of
1843, at which time, my father being absent
upon a mission, made it rather hard for my
mother to get along, as I went to school and
she was obliged to hire a woman to do the
work, her own health being very poor and her
baby sick, which he did not seem to realize as
he never offered any recompense. In the
spring of 1844, during the dramatic season, he
with his wife and sister staid with us, but my
father was at home which made quite a dif-
ference. I was just at the age to enjoy such
amusements, which made time pass very agre-
ably. Miss Adams was a fine young lady and
very gifted as an actress, in fact was quite a
star, though a new beginner like all the rest,
with the exception of Lyne, he spent much of
his time at our house, as they were old friends,
and he was a "Mormon." Mrs. Adams was a
dignified and quite a distinguished looking
woman, and made a fine appearance upon the
stage, but she played only one night—took the
part of the Countess in the "Orphan of Geneva,"
and thought herself so disguised that no one
would recognise her, but when she found that
she was known she could not be prevailed upon

			[Column 3]
to go on again, and as the play was to be re-
peated the next night, they were in a terrible
dilemma, not knowing what to do as we had
returned home, and it was then near midnight.
One of them proposed my taking the part,
(Adams or Lyne), and the women and all set
in flattering and teasing me to take it. But I
was a timid girl of fifteen and frightfully bash-
ful, and the idea of taking so dignified a part
was to my mind utterly absurd; having only
been upon the stage in two plays, first as one
of the virgins in "Pizarro" and another simple
part, but all my excuses were useless and I was
fairly pressed into service. Adams said en-
couragingly, "I'll help you out," and as Lyne
was leaving he said, "Now study the part over
good to night, and then retire and sleep on it,
and you’ll nearly know it in the morning;"
which direction I followed, and having a quick
memory was able to repeat every word at the
rehearsal, but when before an audience I was so
frightened that I remembered very little; my
wits nearly deserted me, but Adams was true
to his promise and by his readiness assisted me
to recover from my confusion. Though he was
never up in his own part, he was never at a
loss for a substitute in every emergency, but
which was anything but pleasing to those who
depended upon him for their cue. He was a
very good actor; and J. Hatch, a young Law-
yer- uncle to Pres. Abram Hactch of Heber
city, was also good as well as Amasa Lyman
and W. H. Folsom, and others. But no part
in “Pizarro’ was better played than was the
Priest, by Brigham Young. there was some
good acting done- some so life-like, that at
times nearly the whole audience would be af
fected to tears. Joseph did not try to hide his
feelings, but was seen to weep a number of
times. Among our best comedians was Hiram
B. Clawson, who I think, was the youngest of
of the boys, that was forty years ago; and
the scenes have been changing till but few
are now left who took part in the first drama-
tic entertainments held in our beautiful city
in 1845.
	On the 11th of May following, my brother
Wm. H. and Mary Davenport, were joined in
wedlock, by father at the house of Winsor P.
Lyons, and on the 13th he brought her home
to live with us.
	On the 17th, a national convention was
held, Joseph being candidate for the Presi-
dency. A great deal of enthusiasm was mani-
fested by the people, which was not confined
to our cities, but according to history, twenty-
seven states were represented." My father and
others of the Apostles were appointed to go East
to electioneer for General Joseph Smith.
			To be Continued.


﻿WOMAN Suffrage is the great moral and pol-
itical question of the nineteenth century.

	RECIPE FOR A HAPPY HOME.—Six things,
says Hamilton, are requisite to a happy home.
Integrity must be the architect, and tidiness
the upolsterer.  It must be warmed by aflec-
tion, and lighted with cheerfulness; and indus-
try must be the ventilator, renewing the atmos-
phere and bringing in fresh salubrity every
day; while over all a protecting canopy of
glory, and nothing will suffice except the bless-
ing of God.
	ELIZABETH, Queen of Roumania, says; “Co-
quetry is not always a bait; it is sometimes a
shield.  Forgiveness is almost indifference
while love lasts forgiveness is impossible. A
woman is stoned for an action which may be
committed by a man with perfect honor.
Women are bad through the fault of men. In
matters of science women are so much ac-
customed to be treated as if of no account, that
they mistrust the savans when they treat them
civilly.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 91﻿


A SONG.

Free as the birds of the mountain,
Free as the rippling rill;
Free as the crystal fountain,
So free is the human will
Mighty and strong, for right or wrong,
To choose thagood or ill,
O, God above, send down thy love
To guide the human will. 

Dcar in the eight of heaven—
Of this vain world a part—
Great is the work that’s given,
To each poor human heart.
Nobly and true, its work to do,
Though good or ill betide,
O, God above, send down thy love,
The human heart to guide.

God's mercy, ever careth
For the immortal soul,
All its needs He knoweth,
It should his name extol.
Let songs arise to rend the skies
Let soul and heart and will
To God above give endless love,
Our mission here to fill.
E. S. D.


IN ANSWER.

	I should like to dispel the veil of darkness
from our sister's eyes, (Mrs. Scott,) and ask
questions in a kindly manner, in relation to
those passages of Scripture which I quoted, and
by the light of the Holy Spirit answer in
truth.
	Did Mr. Alexander Campbell preach the
same Gospel in every respect that the Apostle
did, that laid such an injunction on his words?
"Though an angel from heaven preach any
other Gospel than that we have preached let
him be accursed." Though Mr.  Campbell
quoted the same words he had no authority to
administer in the ordinances of that Gospel.
although he believed it was right to immerse
in water to wash away the sin of the believer
that they might be brought forth to newness
of life.  Yet he was not called of God as was
Aaron, and the Bible says, no man taketh this
honor to himself.  Then I ask how could a
person be cursed for not believing his message,
he made no profession to this effect of being
called by God, or set apart by one having
authority.  When ever God had a particular
work to do or dispensation to bring about, He
said, "I will do nothing except I reveal it to
my servants the prophets." The world deride
revelation, and prophets.  How then can they
enlighten the people, seeing they grope in the
dark.  The Holy Ghost will bring all things to
our remembrance, things past, present and to
come; then will we know of the doctrine
whether it be of God or man.  Now let us ex-
amine Scripture, and try to learn the true and
everlasting Gospel as preached by the Savior
and his Apostles.  Just before our Savior
ascended into heaven, after his resurrection
from the dead, He gave his Apostles this com-
mission, "Go ye into all the world and preach
the Gospel to every creature, he that believeth
and is baptized shall be saved, and he that
believeth not shall be damned," and these signs
shall  follow them that believe, in my name they
shall cast out devils, speak with new tongues,
lay hands on the sick and they shall recover."
This is positive language.  They had the power
and authority, and signs followed their preach-
ing.  "And they went forth, and preached
every where, the Lord working with them , and
confirming the word with signs following; St.
Mark, last chapter.  "God is the same yester-
day to-day and forever, God changes not, his
word neither his Gospel."
	Did these signs follow Campbell's preaching?
If not, the word he preached was to those who
heard, a dead letter, and not confirmed.  "For
our Gospel cam not unto you in word only
but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost, and
in much assurance."  First Epistle of Paul to
Thes. 1st, chapter 5th verse.  I will also quote
second E. 1st ch. 7th verse,"And to you who are
troubled rest with us, when the Lord Jesus
shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty 
angels, in flaming fire taking vengeance on
them that know not God, and that obey not
the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ."  Please
read all the Epistle through, these words are
referring to the last days of out time.  Then is
it not of the greatest importance that we obey
the true Gospel? Which says "there is but one
faith, one Lord, and one baptism." "We must
earnestly contend for the faith once delivered
to the saints."  And as soon as we admit two
or more different doctrines, we lay a foundation
for infidelity, for that would make God the
Author of confusion and discord.
	Please read 1st Cor. 12 chapter.  This gives
the true order of the Church; that there should
be gifts, apostles, pastors, teachers, perfectly 
governed, and established without fault and 
schism; all must be of the same heart, and
mind, in perfect harmony with the Savior's
teachings, and it is so plain that a wayfarring
man though a fool need not err therein.  Now
I do know this is the true Gospel, to be bap-
tized, by one having authority, for the remis-
sion of my sins, go down into the water with
him as the Eunuch did; when I have done
this, refrain from doing wrong, by that grace 
which I have received; have hands laid on my
head, that the Holy Ghost may be manifested
to lead me into all truth, according to the
pattern in holy writ.  "And when Paul had laid
his hands upon them the Holy Ghost came on
them, and they spake with tongues and pro-
phesied." Now Daniel saw a kingdom estab-
lished on the earth.  "Now I am come to make
thee understand what shall befall thy people
in the latter-days, for yet the vision is for many
days."  14th verse.
	Chapter 10, but before this two chapters of
Daniel when interpreting the King's dream
which portrayed the setting up, and tearing
down of earthly kingdoms.    "The God of
Heaven set up his kingdom, (44th verse,) which
shall never be destroyed, and the kingdom
shall not be left to other people, but it shall
break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms
and it shall stand forever."  "For the earth
shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory
of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea."
	Now I will ask has a kingdom ever been set

up by any people, that has brought all the
powers of the earth into subjection to its rule,
and government? 14th chapter 6th verse Rev.
"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of
heaven, having the everlasting  Gospel, were put to 
death, and destroyed.  Therefore the Gospel
has not been on the earth since the days of the
former-day Saints.  Joseph Smith, a young man
fourteen years of age, attended several meetings
of different belief, and being in doubt which
was right, he opened the Bible, and read James
1st chapter 5th verse.  Ïf any lack wisdom, let
him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally
and upbraideth not;  and it shall be given
him.   But let him ask in faith;  nothing
wavering."
	My dear Sister, is not this the right way for 
you and I to find the truth?  He immediately 
retired to a secret place, and asked the Lord 
to tell him which of all these different sects
was right; he though that perhaps one might
be right, and as he was praying a personage, a
halo of light surrounding him stood before him,
and told him that none of them were true, and
for him to join none of them.  But in the own
due time of the Lord He would make known 
to him the true and everlasting Gospel, he
also told him about the Book of Mormon, be-
ing a history of the American Indians, and
he was shown the place where it was buried;
he obtained and translated it, and one of the
witnesses that saw the plates on which it was
engraved in living.  David Whitmer; if you
will read his testimony in the preface of the
Book.  And now concerning the reading of
which you speak.  To read we must under-
stand, it was the higher law they were com-
manded to keep, that is the Celestial Marriage.
"What God put together let no man put 
asunder."  "And let them marry in the Lord."
Let us see if David, and Solomon kept this
law sacred.  David took Uriah's wife, and 
Nathan the Prophet reproved him but those he
took lawfully he gave to him, he sinned by not 
keeping the law.  How about Solomon? he took
wives of heathen parents and worshiped their
gods, in this he sinned.  He must have neg-
gected his own true and faithful wives or they
would not have cried to the Lord.
	For behold, thus saith the Lord. this people
begin to wax in iniquity, they understand not
the Scriptures for they seek to excuse them-
selves in committing whoredoms because of the
things which were written concerning David,
and Solomon his son.  They truly had many
wives, and concubines which was displeasing 
to the Lord.  It must have been the way they
acted, and transgresses by doing so.  Therefore
He forbade them to marry more than one.
For the Lord savs that whoredoms are abom-
inations and He delighteth in the chast-
ity of woman.  The fault is laid to the 
husband, and that they should not com-
mit whoredom like unto them of old, etc.
Now if the sin consisted in marrying plural
wives, why did Nathan give them in  marriage?
And the wives of these men were called the 
fair daughters, and God heard their prayers
against the wickedness of their husbands. He
said, "If I will command my people," He could
command them to have but one, or more if He
chose.  And they of this class were the men
that held the holy Priesthood, and the oracles
of God.  He has the greatest right to give his
law or commands for men to obey, and He
should be obeyed rather than man, and in all
ages of the world God's laws have come in con-
tact with the traditional man made law, the law
of the land.  The self righteous Jews could not
conform to the law of Christ.  And in our day
the over righteous cannot see the kingdom of
heaven which is established on the earth, for
the salvation of every person who will receive
it.  "Glad tidings of great joy which shall be
to all the people."  "Come unto mr all ye
ends of the earth, and be ye saved."
	The second coming of our Savior will be
over-looked by the Gentile nation, as was his
first by the Jews.
	From a well wisher,
			MARY ANN PRATT.


IT is a delightful help merely not to be
hindered.—Jean Ingelow.
THE sad consequence of defection in princi-
ple is corruption in practice.—Dickens
TO persevere in one's duty and to be silent,
is the first answer to calumny.—Washington.
AN ability and an opportunity to do good
ought to be considered as a call to do it.—
Cecil.
MRS. Livermore writes that "The newspapers
of Boston are greatly improved now that women
are employed as regular writers on the staff."


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,  -	-   Editor.
Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$l.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Connell
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to
Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY.  NOVEMBER 15, 1882


GRAND RALLY OF THE PEOPLE’S.
PARTY.
	Saturday evening, November 4, there was a
ratification meeting of the People’s Party at
the Theatre in this city.  All day the stars and
stripes had been floating to the breeze from the
roof of the Theatre, the dome of the City Hall,
and from the public builidngs.  Saturday, 6
o’clock p. m., according to previous arrangement
a procession formed in front of the Theatre, and
marched through the principal streets of the
city, several bands of music playing patriotic
airs, enlivening the scene; carriages filled with
prominent members of the People’s Party, Com-
mittees etc.,and a host of citizens on foot bearing
torchlights made a glittering parade, cheers were
given at several points on the way for Hon.
John T. Caine, the people's nominee.
	At 7 o’clock the procession had returned to the
Theatre.  Crowds poured into the house and in
a few minutes there was scarcely standing room.
Outside a multitude was gathered unable to gain
admittance.  It was too cold to hold an out-door
meeting as had been anticipated.  The interior
of the building was tastefully draped with the
stars and stripes and brilliantly lighted.  On the
platform were many ladies and gentlemen,
editors reporters, etc., as well as Territorial and
County Central Committees and the Mayor and
city officers.  Hon. John Sharp, Chairman Ter.
Cm. C m., proposed Mayer Jennings as Chair
man of the meeting, the motion was carried
unanimously.
	Mayor Jennings was escorted to the front, and
stepping f rward said:  Ladies and gentlemen,
allow me to thank you for the honor conferred on
me in appointing me to occupy the chair this
evening.  I thank you and will try to fill the
position.  
	Hon. D O. Calder nominated Hon. James
Sharp as First-Vice President; the nomination
was unanimously sustained.
 A. M. Cannon, Esq , nominated Judge A.
Miner as Second Vice President of the meeting;
unanimously sustained.
 S. W. Darke, Esq., nominated H. M. Wells, as
Secretary; also sustained.
S. H, Hill, Esq., nominated R. W. Sloan as
Assistant Secretary of the meeting; sustained.
Mayor Jennings then stepped forward and
said:  I will now introduce to you our friend and
fellow-citizen, Hon. John T. Caine (loud ap-
plause)'the nominee for Delegate to Congress.
Mayor Jennings then Introduced to the audi-
ence Mr. H. M. Wells, who read the “Declara-
tion of Principles” of the People’s Party.  Hon
John T. Caine was the first speaker, followed by
S. R. Thurman of Lehi, F. S. Richards of Og-
den , Dr. J. M. Benedict of Salt Lake and Judge
Dusenburry, of Provo.
	J. F. Wells, Esq., then moved that the
declaration of principles that had been read, be
adopted, that the speakers be tendered a vote of
thanks and the nomination of John T. Caine be
ratified. The motion was carried unanimhusly
the audience simultaneously giving three hearty
rounds of applause.  When silence had been re-
stored, Hon. James Sharp called for three cheers,
for the People’s candidate and the “hip, hip,
hurrah! was enthusiastically given.
Mr. Caine having returned thanks to the
people for their confidence and sympathy, and
to the speakers for their presence that evening
to those who had accompanied him throughout
the campaign, the bands and all who had helped
to make the meeting a success, the immense
audience dispersed.
	We reproduce the speeches made by the
younger speakers, which we consider specially
apropos, and are sorry we have not space for all
as published in the dally papers.
S. R. THURMAN. 
	We are called upon in the name of the Great
Jehovah and the continental congress to sur-
render up Ticonderoga.  In the name of the
Great Jehovah and the Constitution of our coun-
try, we decline to surrender.  (Applause.)  They
say, “something has happened in the Territory,
the People’s Party are crying, ‘What shall we
do to be saved ?” They tell us to repent and
come out from them.  We will come out, on the
7th of November, and elect the Hon. John T.
Caine. These are reasons why we cannot sur-
render the fort.  (Applause.)
	Let us recur to  fundamental principles.  You
have heard that our forefarthers enunciated the
principles that all men are created free and
equal; they did not limit the application, no
matter who the man might be, whether Chris-
tian or Mohammedan, whether Jew or Gentile,
heathen or infidel, the principle was universal
in its application, no matter from what land he
comes; whether from the legioned castles of
Europe, the burning sands of Arabia, the king-
doms of the Orientals, or the wave-washed
islands of the sea, the principle was with them
as universal as the dominion of Jehovah. They
also enunciated the idea that liberty can only
exist where the people governed participate in
its administration of government.  (Applause.)
On this foundation they reared the temple of
liberty, the grandest and most glorious structure
the world has ever witnessed.  (Applause.)
The People’s Party are accused of disloyalty.
When did we have our last revolution?  When
did we rebel against the national government?
When did we unfurl to the breeze any other flag
than the stars and stripes? (Applause.) The
People’s Party were the first to unfurl the flag
of our country on the spot where we stand.
They were the first to unfarl it on the Pacific
Coast—they did to in the name of the govern-
ment of the United States.  (Applause.) I
maintain that any party who seeks to establish
in the heart of the United States any other than
a republican lorm of government, is disloyal to
American institutions.  The Liberal Party are
trying to-day to secure for the people of this Ter-
ritory a government that does not contain one
element of republicanism; a government similar
in every respect to the one against which our
forefathers contended.  Hence that party are
disloyal.  (Applause.)
	In converstaion with a prominent Liberal a
few days ago, I asked him upon what principle
he justified the executive of this Territory in
relation to the certificate business.  He said, on
the principle that the end justified the means.  
That is, the right of a man to trample upon
the law, and disregard it whenever he sees fit,
to accomplish his ends.  I repudiate such a doc-
trine as monstrous in a republican government.
(Applause.) Let this principle be perpetuated
and established, and what will be the result?
Crash after crash will be heard as the bulwarks
of freedom give way; anarchy would wave her
sceptre over the land, and despotism would shout
in hellish triumph amid the crumbling ruins.
(Loud applause.  It would be the end of free
government and the destruction of liberty, yet
these are the principles of the Liberal Party.  In
speaking of the Party, of course I do not mean
all.  Many of them are good and patriotic men,
friends whom I esteem, but I speak of the ring
that manipulates and controls the party.  You
have been no doubt told that if you voted the
Liberal ticket, you will get a State government
in sixty days.  In the language of Cassius: “In
the name of all the gods at once, upon what meat
doth this our Caesar feed, that he is grown so
great?” (Loud applause.)  I believe that the
object of the Liberal Party is and has been to
drive the majority of the people of Utah into re-
bellion and hostility. The very platform they
have adopted is intended to insu t and enrage
the people.  They exhausted their fund of abu-
sive expressions, and closed for want of vitupei-
ative language.  It reminds me of the boy build-
ing a playhouse of mud; a preacher asked him
what he was doing.  He said he was building a
church.  The preacher asked him why he didn’t
make a preacher and put in his church. The
boy replied that he didn’t have any more mud.
(Laughter.) The Liberals quit for want of mud.
(Renewed laughter.)
Let us vote for the man who stands on princi-
ple, regardless of who or what he is.  Thank you
ladits and gentlemen for your attention. (Ap-
plause.)
F. S. RICHARDS, ESQ.,
Upon stepping forward, was received with loud
applause. He commenced by referring to the
rights guaranteed to all citizens by the Constitu-
tion of this country.  He alluded to the right of
trial by jury; to the fact that no bill of attainder
or ex post facto law should be passed; that no
person should be obliged to testify against him-
self.  These were some of the bulwarks that
were thrown around the people who lived under
this free government.  He would ask, were the
citizens of the Territory of Utah enjoying these
privileges ? He was told that there existed here
in the Territory of Utah thousands of men and
women who had been illegally deprived of one of
the most sacred of privileges—the right to cast
their vote for the men of their choice.  (Ap-
plause.)  That grand tribunal, the Supreme
Court of the Republic, had said that an in-
dividual who is deprived of his civil lights is
punished by reason of that deprivation. Now,
how was it that, under this constitutional guar-
antee, the people of Utah are punished for some
supposed offence?  Had they been convicted of
that offence?  If not, then they had been pun-
ished without the sacred constitutional privilege
of appearing before a jury and having their guilt
or innocence determined. (Applause.) Further
than this, many of them were not only punished
upon mere suspicion, and without having been
proven guilty, but they were punished in cases
where It would be impossible for the Govern-
ment to convict.  The same legislative power
that had passed the law to which he was now
referring, had provided that unless a prosecution
was brought within three years after the offence,
no conviction could be had.  Indeed, there were
in the Territory of Utah thousands of men and
women who, if they were to go to the District
Attorney and furnish him proof of the commis-
sion of the offence he could not convict, and yet
they were punished.  Further than this, there
were many individuals who had never violated
this law, and still they were deprived of the
sacred privilege of the franchise.  Men and
women, before there was a law existing in this
country regarding polygamy, entered into that
marriage relation, and although there never had
been a day nor on hour when the hand of the


[Column 1]
﻿aw could seize upon them, yet they were
unpunished. There were women here who never
violated the law—because prior to March, 1882
there was no penalty attached to the violation
of this law by the woman—the penalty attached
the men only and they only were guilty—and
yet those women were punisehd. "Who is respon-
sible for the idea that this is the proper construc-
tion of the law? Who is it that says it is right
to tear down those bulwarks that have been
thrown up by the Constitution?" He answered,
"it is the "Liberal" party of the Territory of
Utah," (great applause); In proof of this he
would read the ninth and tenth planks in the
"Liberal" platform. These sections he con-
tended were endorsements of the construction
that had been put upon the law, and for this he
branded the 'Liberal' party as being disloyal
(Applause,) and as seeking to subvert the funda-
mental principles of the government under
which we live. (Renewed applause.) Mr. Rich-
ards then alluded to the rule of construction ap-
plied to laws and showed that the legislative
body must be supposed to intend to confine a
statute within constitutional limits, because in
that consists its vitality, and outside of these
limits it is dead, imbibing the antidote poison of
unconstitutionality that if a constitutional con-
struction can be placed upon it, it must be so
applied and contended that the law of March,
1882, as it had been construed, by the "Liberal"
party, not as enacted by Congress—disfranchised
men and women illegally and unconstitution-
ally, and therefore he branded that party as dis-
loyal by seeking to make it appear that Congress
had violated the Constitution. (Applause.) He
referred briefly to the pretended moral aspect of
the bill, and related an anecdote of an Indian
who, by mischance, cut his dog's tail off behind
the ears and exclaimed, ugh! heap a too short
to illustrate the point that the tail had come
short of what was designed by the "Liberal"
party, because it did not say "in the marriage
relation." (Laughter and applause.) At first it
reached the whole of the people in this Territory.
Any man cohabiting with more than one woman
was liable to lose his franchise and the right to
hold office. But the "Liberals" undertook to
lengthen it out by adding to it. However, the
longer they made it the shorter it became, but
when they got through with doctoring the legis-
lation it was entirely too short to reach the
"Liberal" party. (Laughter.) Now it covered
thoroughly the People's Party, but the "Liberal"
party was left out in the cold. In other words,
this great moral measure upon which they (the
"Liberal" party) prided themselves, and for
which they rendered up everlasting gratitude—
this great moral measure permitted men and
women who had descended to the lowest depths
of degradation to go to the ballot box and cast
their votes, while honest, virtuous men and
women of the People's Party were excluded
because of the "marriage relation." (Applause.)
He was glad they had extended the bill, he was
glad of the distinction they had made, because
it placed the People's Party on a plane so high,
that those other people (the "Liberal" party)
would never, by any ladder they could construct,
be able to reach it. (Applause.) "In the dis-
franchisement of this people we see to-day, one
of the most sublime instances of patriotism that
can be found in the American Republic. (Loud
applause.) Here are thousands of people un-
justly, illegally, unconstitutionally, deprived of
the dearest and most sacred rights of American
citizens, and yet they humbly, meekly and
peaceably submit to this indignity until, in the
due time of Almighty God, the supreme tribunal
of the Republic shall restore to them their sacred
rights." (Prolonged and vigorous applause,
Was there, he asked, in) the annals of history

[Column 2]
ancient or modern, frm the days of Adam until
now, a grander or more sublime exhibition of
patriotism than this? He answered, No. In
conclusion Mr. Richards denounced the "Lib-
erals" for the construction they had put upon
this act of Congress, and charged them with
tearing away the very corner stones of the tem-
ple of liberty that were cemented by the blood
of our ancestors. (Applause.) He briefly allud-
ed to the tactics of the "Liberal" party, especial-
ly to P. T. Van Zile's promise that if the people
would elect him he would secure statehood for
the Territory in sixty days, and if not elected,
that Utah would get a Legislative Commission,
and showed the inconcistency of these promises,
in view of the fact that the platform in which
the "Liberal" candidate stood was opposed to
Utah's statehood and was in favor of the Legis-
lative Commission. He asked whether, when
Utah needed a representative who would be as
firm as a pillar of adamant, to withstand the
storm of hatred raging against her, we should
send a man who would be swayed by every
breath of prejudice; when she now needed an
able defender, should we send a vindictive pros-
ecutor? When she needed a wise and sympa-
thetic friend, whose heart would beat with joy
at her success or sink with sadness at her sorrow,
should we send a cruel and relentless foe, who
would rejoice to see her deprived of the last ves-
tige of liberty? His vote on the 7th of Novem-
ber would answer "No," because in the Hon.
John T. Caine he saw the wise friend, the able
advocate and the pillar of adamant. Mr. Rich-
ards retired to his seat amid prolonged ap-
plaus.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 94


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	OMAHA 7. Telegraphic dispatches say, "The
constitutional amendment relative to woman
suffrage, has been defeated by a large majority."
We are very sorry for Nebraska, and had hoped
to see the amendment passed this year, but "If
at first you don't succeed, Try, Try, again."
	ON Thursday, accompanied by our daughter
Louie we left Salt Lake with Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, to visit Wasatch Stake, attend Women's
Conferences and go through the country. We
returned on Monday, having visited Heber City,
Midway, Charleston, Wallsburg and Timpanogas
and attended eight meetings; and enjoyed our
visit very much.
	THE Lecture Committee for the Y. L. M. I.
A. Salt Lake Stake, report that they are prepared
to furnish lecturers for the Young Ladies' Asso-
ciations. This is the season when the evenings
are sufficiently long to devote an hour at least,
to the pursuit of knowledge. Inquire at this
office or by letter to the editor, and the answer
will be promptly given or sent.
	MRS. Elizabeth Lisle Saxon, of New Orleans is
in the City. She comes as a special correspond-
ent of the Times-Democrat New Orleans, and
also the Pelladelphia Times. The lady has been
widely and favorably known as a poet and
novelist, and more recently as a lecturer and
suffragist. She is a fluent and rapid speaker,
pleasing in her address and especially attractive
on the platform. She has made forty-seven
public addresses in the state of Nebraska, since
the 3d. of October, in the interest of the amend-
ment granting suffrage to women. The amend-
ment was lost, but the women of Nebraska are
not discouraged. Mrs. Saxon expects to give 
one or two public lectures during her sojourn
in our city. The time and place as well as the
subject of her lecture, will be announced through
the papers. We cordially welcome Mrs. Saxon
to our delightful valley, and trust she will have
a good opportunity of seeing the happy home

[Column 2]
of the "Mormons," and believe that she will have
the courage simply to tell the truth regardless of
public opinion.
	ON Saturday, Nov. 4, we had the pleasure of
visiting Sandy, in company with Sisters E. R.
S. Smith and M. I Horne. A Relief Society
was organized, by Counselor Andrew Olsen Gel-
tes, assisted by Mrs. E. R. S. Smith. Mrs. Wil.
helmina Olsen, President; Mrs. Harriet Wilson
and Catharine Lewis, Counselors; Mrs. Mary E.
Neff,Secretary; Matilda Christophoson Assistant
Secretary; Ingrea Geltea, Treasurer. Twenty
members enrolled.
	Same day, 2 o'clock p. m , meeting was held,
and a Primary Association was organized, Sister
E. R. S. Smith organizing. The children
were quiet and orderly, and their exercises
were well rendered. Miss Maria Lewis
was elected President, Annie Ostler and
Maggie Olsen, Counselors, Joseph Maginnis and
James Osterman, Secretaries; and Mary Jane
Lewis Treasurer. Fifty-five members enrolled.
The sisters gave much good instruction and all
felt edified.
	"PLURAL MARRIAGE' as Taught by the Pro
phet Joseph," is the significant title of a book
just out, from the pen of Helen Mar Whitney,
already favorably known as a writer through her
contributions to the EXPONENT. The lady is
the eldest daughter of Heber C. Kimball, so long
and closely associated with Brigham Young.
The book contains strong testimonies of libing
witnesses on the subject referred to, as well as
quotation from the sayings and writings of 
Joseph Smith himself, and Heber C. Kimball.
She tells how the revelation upon celestial mar-
riage came into the possession of Brigham
Young. Mrs. Whitney writes in a simple, un-
pretending style, but her language is chaste and
her statements cannot be denied. Facts are
stubborn things, and truth carries conviction to
the honest hearted and humble. We commend 
this little pamphlet to the Latter-day Saints,
and to the whole world. The book was
published at the Office of the "Juvenile In-
structor" and is for sale there, and at this office
at 10 cts. per copy. It contains 52 pages and
is printed in very clear type.
			---------------------------


OBITUARY.
			Resolutions of Respect.
	On the death of Mrs. Ellen Jackson Goldsbrough, who
departed this life five hours after the birth of a son, her
tenth child, at her residence in Nephi, Oct. 27, 1882.
	Whereas, God in his mercy and wisdom, has seen fit
to call from our midst our beloved sister, who has been
so faithful in the discharge of her duties as a Relief So-
ciety Teacher, and as a Counselor in the Primary Asso-
ciation, and who has been acknowledged as a devoted
wife in the plural order of marriage, who was a kind and
affectionate mother, a loving daughter and sister, and a
true and confiding friend; and who in her girlhood left
all that was near and dear to her, in her native land, to
cast her lot with the Latter-day Saints; crossed the plains
in a hand-cart company. Her aged father and mother
brother and two sisters, followed with joy she welcomed
them to her mountain home. She was truly the Pioneer
of her father's house, and now her pure spirit has gone
before to the spirit world, there to await and welcome
her kindred and all that she held dear in this life.
	We, as officers and members of the Nephi Relief So-
ciety unanimously adopt the following resolutions.
	We sincerely condole with the husband and partner
Amelia Goldsbrough, and her dear children, also her aged
father, and mother, brothers and sisters, and tender them
our heartfelt sympathies in this sad bereavement. May
her examples of purity and integrity be emulated by
every member of our Society, that her noble life may
inspire in us a renewed determination to honor our re-
ligion and our God.
	Resolved, That we adopt these resolutions as a token
of respect, that we present a copy of these resolutions to


her family, and publish the Woman's Ex-
ponent, and place a copy on our record.
	May angels welcome to their realms of light
	Our Sister dear, so lovely, pure and bright,
	In paradise, among the pure and good
	Who for the cause of truth have nobly stood.
					Mary Pitchporth, Pres.
					M. E. Teasdale, Sec'y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS.
	Cohoes, N. Y. Oct. 24, 1882.
Editor Exponent:
	A year has passed since our Society was or-
ganized. How short the time has seemed; for
our meetings have been like milestones along
our way, guiding and encouraging us onward.
They are a great comfort and blessing to us,
and when we look back to the time before we
had these meetings we wonder how we could
have gotten along without them. The Presi-
dent of the Society makes the meetings inter-
esting as well as instructive, and the members
attend quite regularly.
	Tuesday, 17th inst., was the anniversary of
our organization. On that day we held a
meeting, the exercises being appropriate for
that occasion. We felt doubly blest and each
fully enjoyed herself.
	Being a very small Society, we have not a
very large amount in the Treasury, but it is
willingly given. Two dollars have been given
for missionary purposes, five dollars we shall
send to the Logan Temple, and have some
remaining in the Treasury.
	Hoping we shall soon be gathered to Zion
where we shall be with God's people. I remain
yours in the Gospel,
			Hattie F. Clough, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
	﻿PERSONAL EXPERIENCE, ETC.
DEAR MRS. SCOTT:
	Allow me to offer you a helping hand. I
am much interested in your wading about in
the mud.
	I may as well say to begin with, that when a
child, my first attempt to read the Book of
Mormon through met with a similar result to
that which you have lately experienced.
	When I came to the second chapter of Jacob,
I became somewhat confused. I thought I did
not understand it, or if I did, it told me that
the Lord condemned “Polygamy,” and that it
was an abomination in his sight.
	I did not go humbly before the Lord then,
and ask for an explanation of the matter, But
with the book open in my hand, I went to my
father and asked him if “Polygamy” was right,
and if the Lord did reveal the principles to
Joseph Smith, with the commandment that he
and some of his brethren should enter into it?
To these questions my father replied calmly
and solemnly in the affirmative.
	“Then,” I demanded, “What does this
mean?” And I read aloud those passages
which seemed to me to make the Lord appear
anything but an “unchangeable being," “the
same yesterday, to-day and forever.” If He
had actually said those things to Jacob for the
Nephites, and the exact opposite to Joseph for
the Latter-day Saints. My father heard me
through, and then took the book and read, and
endeavored to make clear to my understand-
ing, the fact that no inconsistencies existed be-
tween the teachings in that chapter, and the
teachings of our Latter-day prophets. He ad-
mitted that some men among our people were
foolish, and would do wrong, and that they
would be held accountable for their wrong do-
ing. The Lord would not justify sin and
wickedness among his people now, any more
than in former days, His daughters and their

			[Column 2]
purity were as precious in his sight to-day as
in any age of the world that had ever been.
And a great deal more was said, but I could
not comprehend it. I was sure that my father
knew what he told me was the truth; but he
could not know it for me. Every other prin-
ciple of our religion which I had heard or
thought anything about, seemed so plain and
also so good and beautiful, that I wondered
why I could not see the good and beauty of
“Polygamy,” if really there were any in it.
	My parents were Latter-day Saints, not only
in name but in deed and in truth, years before
my birth. So that—something like yourself,
Mrs. Scott, “I was conceived in faith, brought
forth in repentance and raised in baptism.”
But differing from you somewhat, I did not
“believe because my parents and relatives did;”
but had to understand things for myself in or-
der to believe them. I was baptized when six
years of age because I wanted to be. My father
thought best for me to wait two years, until I
should be eight years old. But our Bishop
said I had as good an understanding of things
as many children at the age of eight years; he
advised my father to baptize me, and it was
done. 
	When I was fifteen years old, I began to
realize the inconsistency of my being a staunch
advocate of “Mormonism” in the main, while
one of its vital principles, I could not say that
I understood or believed. One thing I ac-
knowledged to myself, I had not striven dili-
gently to find out for a certainty whether or
not “Polygamy” was right. Instead of study-
ing into it, I had simply looked at it, concluded
it was a doubtful problem, and inheroically
let it alone. I wanted to know about it for
myself now, and began to pray earnestly for
greater faith and light. (This, I think, you
might do with profit, my dear Mrs. Scott.)
The Lord was merciful unto me, He heard my
prayers, and the light came. Not suddenly,
as it comes to some; but gradually and unmis-
takably. Not without many efforts on my part
to grasp a ray when it was presented to me, to
hold and nourish a gleam of truth when I got it.
I learned to understand the principles of
“Polygamy,” very much as we learn to under-
stand principles m mathematics or chemistry;
and it seems as clear to me now as that two
and two make four, or that alkali and acid
compounded in liquid form will effervesce.
	In the second chapter of Jacob, before
alluded to, the word of the Lord to the people
of Nephi was, “There shall not any man among
you have save it be one wife; and concubines
he shall have none.” They were but a small
people, their men and women being about
equal in number. It was not the design of the
Lord that their seed should multiply very
rapidly, but that He might raise up unto him-
self a righteous branch, from the “fruit of the
loins of Joseph.” In the same chapter it is
written, “For if I will, saith the Lord of Hosts,
raise up seed unto me, I will command my
people; otherwise they shall hearken unto these
things.”
	In these the latter-days, the Lord wills to
raise up seed unto himself, and He has com-
manded his people, through the medium of his
Prophet Joseph Smith, and they have heark-
ened, some of them, and obeyed the voice of
the Lord by entering into plural marriage, or
as it is styled, “Polygamy.” “Whoredoms,”
and all licentiousness are as abominable in the
sight of the Lord today as they ever were, and
such things have nothing to do with the “Poly-
gamy” of the Latter-day Saints. To the faith-
ful members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, whether political “polygam-
ists” or not, nothing is held so choice and sacred
as personal virtue and chastity: and nothing
is so dreadful as the loss of it;
	We consider that a man who marries two or
more wives, and remains faithful to them, is as

			[Column 3]
pure and good as the man who marries but one
and is true to her. And in like manner do
we view the women who are faithful to their
husbands, whether they live in “Polygamy” or
out of it.
	If you are still in doubt about the same Lord
giving one commandment to the Nephites, and
another to the Latter-day Saints, let me call
your attention to a single illustration of a simi-
lar occurrence, recorded in the old Testament.
	You know all about the storing of a very
great amount of grain in Egypt, because of the
sore famine that was coming upon the land and
how the blessings of the Lord rested upon the
world. You will also please call to mind, how
but a few generations later, when the Lord
fed his people with manna in the wilderness,
the word was that none of the manna should
be stored away, (to make their loads heavier as
they travelled,) except a little for the Sabbath.
And when this commandment was broken, the
result was evil instead of good for the people.
Many other examples might be cited, but let
this suffice to show that what suits one people
and their condition may not be applicable to
others in their time.
	One thing more. You say the “vexing of
the wicked” is what makes you bitter and un-
happy, for religiously the wicked includes all
who differ from the Church.” We do not view
it in that light at all. We believe that people
who are honest and virtuous, and who seek to
benefit others, will never be classed among the
wicked and the ungodly, though they make no
professions of religion. They receive better
rewards than thousands of professed religionists
who parade their piety, but whose inner lives
are vile and corrupt.
	“The wicked” are those who would stir up
strife and contention, who are dishonest, im-
moral, and who seek to abuse and discomfort
others. Is it not just, that such should be
punished? We would not allow one of our
young children to heap impositions on another
without interfering, and putting the bad one to
shame, if after being told repeatedly how he
ought to act, he still persisted in being bad.
Neither will our great Father suffer some of
his children to wrong others, and not bring
them to judgment for it.
	“Why not prevent the wickedness?” you
ask. Why not indeed! which of us would
not, if we had the power.
	Your ideas of happiness and religion re-
mind me of an expression made by a stranger
lady who attended a little birthday gathering,
given to one of our noble sisters a short time
since. She said of us, “You are indeed, a hap-
py people, whether you are right or not.” Our
answer was, “Our happiness is an evidence that
we are right. Did we not know that we are
right before our God, we could not be thus
happy.”
	True religious sentiments and lives will make
people happy and satisfied under very trying
circumstances. But a religion which requires
no self-denials, which offers no occasions for
the uprooting of native selfishness and the cul-
tivation of more generous fruits, would be too
cheap and too unlike the religion of Jesus to
be valued very highly.
	What a long letter, and I would say more
but that I fear, Mrs. Scott, you (or our mutual
friend the editor) will lose patience with me,
and I would not like to vex you. So goodbye.
				L. GREENE RICHARDS.


Lady Hannah Shepherd Havelock recently
died at her residence in Kensington Palace
Gardens, London. In recognition of the ser-
vices of her distinguished husband, the captor
of Lucknow, Parliament settled upon her a
pension of 1,000 a year, and raised her to
the rank of a baronet’s widow, with the baro-
netcy renewed to their son.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 95


[Column 1]
EXPLANATORY LETTER.

			Salt Lake City, Sept. 1882.
MY DEAR MRS. SCOTT:
	I have conceived an earnest desire to write
you a private letter, thinking I cannot do jus-
tice to my feelings publicly. Being deeply
interested in you, and believing you to be
"honest in heart," my anxiety is great that you
may know and comprehend our religion as it
really is, in all its fulness and beauty.  Being
born and reared under the auspices thereof, I
can assure you that I have never heard a word
uttered, by way of counsel or instruction,
neither in public or private, by any of our
Elders or ministers, but has been calculated to
elevate and purify mankind, and can also
assure you my dear Mrs. Scott, that "Mormon-
ism" is a sure stepping stone, there is no danger
in that path, should you once make up your
mind to forsake the world and walk therein.
It will not endanger your health in  any way,
but will lead you on to life, life everlasting.
The angel whom John the Revelator saw, has
indeed flown through the midst of heaven, with
the Everlasting Gospel, and has delivered the
same to Joseph Smith, the unbelief of the world
to the contrary notwithstanding; and thousands
upon thousands can and do bear testimony to
that fact, by the gift and power of the Holy
Ghost, which was conferred upon them by the
laying on of hands after their baptism, by
those holding authority to administer the same,
Do you remember Jesus asked Peter who he,
Jesus, was, when Peter answered, "Thou art
the Christ the Son of the living God,"  then
Jesus said, "Blessed art thou Simon Barjona,
flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto
thee, but my Father who art in heaven and on
this rock, (the rock of revelation) will I build
my church, and the gates of hell shall not pre-
vail against it."  We claim to have that same
Gospel which Jesus taught, founded on revela-
tion, and should not dare teach any other, for
fear of coming under the curse.  One of the
greatest proofs we have of its being the same,
is that the signs do follow believers as they
did anciently.  Paul says "One Lord, one faith
and one baptism."  The gospel he preached
was faith, repentance and baptism, the laying
on of hands for the conferring of the gift of
the Holy Ghost, with these signs following be-
lievers.  "In my name they shall cast out
devils, speak with new tongues, lay hands on
the sick, and they shall recover, etc. Now!
We positively know, we have that same Gospel
Paul preached, because the same effects are
made manifest that were realized by believers
anciently.  I have seen the sick healed, through
the administration of the Elders, when death
had laid hold upon them, have heard speaking
in tongues, and the interpretation thereof.
Now, there are none of the various sects of the
day who make such professions, therefore can-
not consistently lay claim to preaching the
Gospel taught by Jesus and his Apostles.  If
you will read the 3d chapter of 2nd Timothy,
you will find a perfect descripton of the state of
affairs, existing at the present day.  Should
you repent and be baptized and have hands
laid upon you for the reception of the Holy
Ghost, by those having authority, that Spirit
would reveal unto you, and make plain every
principle of our religion, Celestial marriage
included.  
	I am not surprised that the chapter you
mention, in the Book of Mormon, should puzzle
you.  Yet it seems to me that the clause.  "But 
if I will."  saith the Lord, "raise up seed unto
me, I will command my people," settles the
whole question, however, that is not the most
profitable subject for you to study.  The first
principles of the Gospel should engage your
whole attention at present.  If you can be con-
vinced that God has spoken from the heavens,

[Column 2]
all else will become plain and simple to your
understanding.
	From the account we have of Philip and
the Eunuch the first principles only were
taught.  Let us take up these and then go on
unto perfection.
	I wish to correct you on one point, wherein
you sadly misjudge us as a people, we do not
consider all wicked who are not members of
our church.  We know there are thousands,
not of us, who are honest, upright people,
doing as well as they know how, according
to the light which they possess.  Such are not
included, when we speak of the wicked being
vexed.  But we do expect that many will
flock to Zion (this people) when God's judg-
ments are stalking abroad in the earth, this be-
ing the only place of safety, and this the only
people who will not be at war one with another.
Understanding me as you did, you could not
think otherwise, than that we are an unjust,
illiberal people,when exactly the opposite is the
case. I would shudder at the thought of any
suffering, who did not justly, truly merit it,
even then my sympathies would be aroused,
although knowing it to be just.  You desire
that faith in God that your children have in
you. That is exactly the faith possessed by
the Latter-day Saints.  We fear no evil that
threatens us as a people, for we know that God
rules, that He holds the destinies of nations in
his hands, and He will take care of his Saints
lor He has declared that to be his business.
I for one can assure you, without a doubt,
that you will find that faith you seek, by yield-
ing obedience to this Gospel, for it really does
make us look up, and fills our hearts and lives
full of melody, thanksgiving and love. Why,
there are no other people who know how to
love as we do.
I will, tell you, as a proof of the power and
efficacy of this Gospel over the lives of the
people, that it is a rare thing to find a dis-
honest, wicked young person, among the child-
ren of the Saints, as our statistics will show. I
would not fear receiving an insult from a Lat-
ter-day Saint, should I meet him a thousand
miles from every other human being.  In fact
I never heard of such a thing happening unless
it was from an apostate in spirit.  No other
Church could say the earac of all its members.
Praying that God will inspiro you with his
Spirit, that you may comprehend the things of
bis kingdom, and that I shall one day meet
you in the “valleys of the mountains,” I
remain your true friend and well-wisher.
Mary A. Freeze.


NOTES FROM MORGAN.
 Since the storms subsided and fine weather
set in, the potato crop and the threshing of
grain has kept men women and children very
busy, but not so much so but we could attend
to our Relief Societies and Y. L. M. I. Con-
ferences and enjoy them. The sight of so many
persons leaving their daily labors, to meet to-
gether to express their gratitude to their
Maker, and unite their efforts  to benefit each
other and mankind at large, is one that ever
fills my soul with emotions easier understood
than expressed.
	Of course you know that it took some power-
ful argument and reasoning, to call the ladies
of Morgan, from the work-stoves, and work-
baskets, to the stage of political lore; our lords
of creation having carried on things in a man-
ner so straight-forward and conscientious, we
did not think it necessary for us to mix up with
politics. However we find to-day that we have
not awakened to our sense of need and duty
one hour too soon; as the opposing element
which has been smouldering for years in our
large cities, is now assuming a flare up, which
has sent its crackling sparks to adjoining settle-
ments. When I talk of opposing element, I
mean those discontented parties who are never
happy only in their endeavors to make others
miserable, and who would scarcely appreciate
wealth unless acquired at the detriment of
others. For a week past posters have been put
up in the neighborhood of our R. R. Station,
where all our commerce also lies, to notify the
public, that Judge Van Zile, and other gentle-
men, would visit this our country seat, for a
grand rally of the Liberal forces, and to lay
before the people the platform adopted by their 
Party. Thursday morning, the 25th inst. as
per announcement, Messrs. Van Zile, Hollister,
and others were met at Weber Station, on their
return from Coalville, by Registrars Peterson
and Shurtliff, and one or two other parties;
but the assemblage did not appear large
enough, and although invited to partake of a
breakfast prepared in their honor, the Liberal
visitors decided to proceed to Ogden for break-
fast, but the blame will not lie at their door.
The use of the school, house had been granted
them, in which to rally, and deliver their pat-
riotic (?) speeches; but after waiting in vain
for an audience, they adjourned to the R. R.
Station, where a few railway employers swelled
their numbers. Mr. Van Zile relieved himself
of some of his spleen, by the delivery of his
usual bosh, viz., accusing religious authority,
or the priesthood for everything that did not
suit him, especially the absence of an audience
to listen to his oratory (?). So much for the
consistency and liberality of the Liberal
Party, and the good hard common sense of the
Morganites for not choosing to hear themselves
abused.
	To-day, when as per announcement the
Hon. John T. Caine, S. R. Thurman, Judge
Dusenberry and James Sharp, arrived they
were met by many of our prominent ladies and
gentlemen, and were escorted to South Morgan
preceded by D. Bull’s Brass Band. After
partaking of dinner, those gentlemen repaired
to the school house, which was crowded to
suffocation. The people felt amply repaid for
leaving the potato fields and threshing ma-
chines, to hear the able, eloquent and patriotic
speeches delivered by the above named gentle-
men. Indeed it was a feast fit for intellectual
kings and queens, that exposition of good
sound arguments and noble principles, couched
in terms that displayed patriotic enthusiasm
and astounding oratorial ability. The Brass
Band discoursed lively music and the audience
demonstrated their appreciation by loud cheers
and applause.
	A light was beaming on the countenance of
all, the light of the fire which burned in the
bosoms of the heroic Fathers of 1776. May
that fire spread until it fills the universe is the
wish of your humble servant,
					E. C. E. Francis.
Oct. 26, 1882.


Gov. St. John says: Men say it will degrade
woman to vote, but they can see her wash all
day to support a vagabond husband who sells
his vote for a glass of whisky, and never think
of her degradation.—Ex.

	A SIXTEENTH amendment is pending in the
United States Congress, and will be acted upon
the coming session. The following gentlemen,
candidates for Congress, are favorable to it, and
should receive the support of every suffragist,
Hon. G. S. Orth, Hon. R. B. F. Pierce, Hon.
Stanton J. Peelle and Col. Mark L. DeMotte.
A correspondent says, "I am a Democrat, but
Col. DeMotte will get my ballot, because he is
a prohibitionist, a suffragist and a Christian
gentleman." Voters! break away from party
rings and send men to Congress who represent
the best principles.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. SCOTT ASKS MORE QUESTIONS.
Well what did the Commissioners do ? They
should have come around this way. If they
make polygamy the main issue, I could have
shown them several corners where polygamous
cobwebs are pretty thick even in Ohio. Oh,
this is a queer world: as the simple girl said,
“There be the most queer folks in this’ere world
that I ever saw any where.” Now sitting at
my open window of a summer Sunday evening
I can hear the songs and sermons in the Metho-
dist church near by. I smile to hear them
sing:
“Blest be the tie that binds
Our hearts in Christian love.”
And sometimes wonder what God thinks of that
Christian binding. The church is a fine one,
most of the members very wealthy, living in
palatial homes, and nearly all connected by
business or marriage relations. But oh! how
thin is that Christian binding—almost worn
through, but patched by policy and pride,
darned by dimes and dollars. One of their
prominent members—an old man—was dealt
with for improper conduct with a dressmaker,
a young sister in the Church, not long since.
Quite a stir was made just at the time, and
one of the Deacons became so excited that he
struck the erring brother, and would have
thrashed him soundly, but was prevented by
the bystanders. The matter was hushed up,
and they all went to church together. Now it
was a big affair, and aroused my religious scorn
to see it ,so [---]tly, nicely tucked into a hiding
place. I ha[-] no relish for such matters, but
do not like [---]e a dirty mess swept into a
corner and covered up, and have to say: “How
nice and clean your house is.” I rather ad-
mire[-] [-]he pluck of the Deacon, and one day
expressed my admiration saying: “He is al-
together upright so far as women are concerned
isn’t he?” “W-e-1-1” said my companion dryly,
“t-h-e-re is never v-er-y m-u-c-h said a-g-a-i-nst
h-i-m in that w-a-y.” The story was like a
snowball, the bigger it got, the faster it got
bigger; so, disgusted, I dropped it and smiled.
	I am sorry you did not clear up the questions
I broached in my last letter. I can not accept
any religion that will not bear sifting. Poly-
gamy does not trouble me. I really bellieve it
would make the world better and happier. *
*	*	 Please do not be displeased with
erratic talking, I am not so vicious as it may
appear. Shall I ask you to pardon mistakes,
or must I rewrite the letter and correct them ?
(perhaps multiply them) know that at my
elbow sits Alice (age eleven) studying, and its
“Ma, is this answer right.” Then Mr. D, on
the other side of the table, says, “Em, can you
listen a moment ?” He is reading, A. Willford
Hall’s “Problem of Human Life.” Sumner
and Charlie sandwich their boyish exploits in
between times, so that my pen is like the tele-
graph instrument—must click away while
messages are going over the wires, from ear to
ear, on various matters.
I remember with pleasure your picture of
home-life. Our home is very pleasant. I call
our house “The tramp’s retreat,', as preachers
of all denominations, doctors, teachers and
everybody calls in.	Emma S.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	GEN. Butler has been elected Governor of
Massachusetts on a woman suffrage platform.
This is a great gain for the women of the Old
Bay State, who have labored so assiduously in
the interest of equality before the law.

	THE sending of medical woman from Eng-
land to India is likely to be an established
custom. The Indian women are averse to
treatment by physicians not of their own sex.

[Column 2]
The statistics of the British medical service
in India show that the women have rarely
availed themselves of prescriptions or atten-
dance. A staff of trained women is proposed
as a part of the public service in India, a de-
partment co-ordinate and not subordinate to
the existing medical bureau.—Ex.

	THE foreign-born population of Kansas is
not nearly so great as it is in many other
States. Of the total inhabitants, over 954,-
000, only about 110,000, or fewer than one in
nine, are foreign-born, while nearly one in
three of the population of Massachusetts, and
one in four of the population of Illinois, are
foreign-born. The people are not only mainly
native-born, but are of the b[e]st elements of
the Northern States hence the progressive atti-
tude of Kansas on Woman suffrage and pro-
hibition.

	YEAR by year prejudice against the occupa-
tion of public place by women is steadily de-
creasing. This is especially noticeable in con-
nection with educational matters. Women are
now eligible as school officers in Illinois, Iowa,
Kansas, Virginia, Massachusetts, Michigan,
Minnesotta, New York, Pennsylvania, Ver-
mont, Wyoming, and to any office in Wisconsin
except that of State Superintendent. In Mis-
sissippi the law requires that at least one
woman shall be a member of the State Board
of Education. Other States are moving in the
same direction, and before ten years those that
fail to follow the same wise example of those
mentioned will be the exception.—Inter-Ocean.

	THE Association for the Advancement of
Women, otherwise known as the Woman's
Congress, held a series of successful meetings
in Portland, Me., on Wednesday, Thursday,
and Friday of last week. Among the note-
worthy participants in the proceedings were
Julia Ward Howe, Mrs. Kate Gannett Wells,
Abby W. May, Mary F. Eastman, Antoinette
Brown Blackwell, Laura Clay (daughter of
Cassius M. Clay), Mrs. Henrietta L. T. Wol-
cott, Dr. Marie Zakrzewska, Mrs. Gen. Lander,
Dr. Lorenza Haynes, Miss Emily J. Leonard,
Mrs. Lita Barney Sayles, and many others
more or less known to the public as thinkers
and leaders. The topics discussed took a very
wide range. The rights of women; the rights
of children, Chinese emigration, religion art,
labor, finance, hygiene, astronomy, political
economy,—these were among the problems
considered by the Congress.

	An Artistic Restaurant.—Visitors to the
last Paris Exposition will remember the head
of the statue of Liberty which formed so promi-
nent a figure in the fair grounds, and was the
more interesting as being destined for America,
known to all the world as the Land of Liberty.
Even then and there Bartholdi, the sculptor of
the colossal figure, used to gather parties of
friends around a banqueting board beneath the
dome of the bronze caput. From time to time
the public has been apprised of the progress of
the work, the lower portion of which is now
well builded up. The latest report is of a ban-
quet in the thigh of the statue, which was "most
successful in every way." The guests walked
in by the right foot, and one of them laid him-
self down most comfortably inside one of the
toes; ladders coveyed them all the way up the
calf, and finally deposited them where a tem-
porary platform had been constructed, and the
festivities are allowed to go on. Liberty may
turn to Bacchus before she is ready to lift her
torch on Bedloe's Island. However, a sculptor
who devotes a hundred thousand dollars of his
own money to a gift-statue, as Bartholdi has to
this, is surely entitled to such pleasure as he
can improvise from it. He is a wealthy man,
alone in the world since the death of his mother
not long since.—Ex.


KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 21 and 31 W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's

Men's Socks, Ladies’ and Childrens' Stockings, Infant
	Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladles'and Children's Hoods,
		etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
	19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the 
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Comminication between Office and Residence 

AT TEASDEL'S 
SALT LAKE CITY
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S.P.TEASDEL.

Z. C. M. I. 
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTUREAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. Your Orders are Stolicited 
GEO. DUNFORD. 

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store,
Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Dieases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C. 
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,		Brown Yarns, 		Cotton Batting, 
Flannels,		White Yarns, 		Wool Batting, 
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	 Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers, 		 Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			 Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
----HAVE----
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE 
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, AS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PIMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAI DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIBE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
--AND--
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

