VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1883.	No. 18.


THERE’S NO RETREATING.

	“What shall one then answer the messesgers of the
Nation? That the Lord hath founded Zion, and the
poor of His people shall trust in it.”—ISAIAH.

What shall the slander’d and scorn’d, reply—
	To th’ messengers sent by th’ Nation?
To straiten the Saints of the Lord most high—
To hamper the honest, they know not why—
Except to quiet their hue and cry
	Who deem us a sore vexation.

Not ours the right, ’gainst the Lord to fight,
	To censure His vast (?) assurance—
For founding a Kingdom in these last days—
For building it up by peculiar ways 
Drawing the nations ireful gaze
And testing the Saints endurance.

In His judgment just, we needs must trust
	Who is surely a friend to the lowly;
Patience! is needful as Faith and Love,
"How long?” is echo’d in courts above;
The Lord is waiting His own to prove— 
To see if we’ll trust Him wholly.

“As the hungry and thirsty, of feasting, dream,
	And to weakness and want, awaken”—
So the foes of truth! though they powerful seem,
Shall wake to confusion; for One, Supreme—
In His own due time, will the pure redeem—
	Tho’ heaven and earth be shaken.

Kingdoms will totter, and thrones decay—
	Like crumbling seeds, so rotten;
And Zion's oppressors (a dread array)
Shall dwindle to nothing, or pass away;
Wherefore, should Zion be sad, or say—
	God hath his own forgotten?

Forth to the rescue! “The Lord of Hosts”
	From His covert will come, like the lion!
Fiercer by far, in His anger, grand!
Woe to the powers, who His will withstand;
Ye shall know, Oh Chiefs! of this chosen land—
	“That the Lord hath founded Zion.”

And this Is the answer, that far and wide—
	Wo send to the nations, greeting;
Zion! "The pure of heart” must’bide—
The law of the Highest, her King, her Guide;
Tho’ even as gold, she may still be tried,
	For the true, there’s no retreating.
			EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, February, 1883.


[Column 1]
PLEASANT REMINISCENCES.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	I intended the following little episode for a
New Year's greeting, but before finished I fell
ill, and have since had no energy for anything
but to nurse and take care of No. 1, which in-
deed is a duty we owe, not only to ourselves,
but to Him who has blest us with that most
inestimable blessing, good health. But to-day
I find myself, as it were, mechanically seated
at my writing table, and so, dear Editor, with
your assent I proceed to put this little article
into a tangible form for the columns of
the EXPONENT.
	1882 has passed away, another year added
to the Eternal Pile! Christmas has come and
gone; it brought with it its thousand whisper-
ings of the past; when young life was around
and about us, and all were so really happy and
joyous; Christmas has over produced wonderful
times and seasons—both in religious observ-
ances and in hilarious rejoicings, wonderful
re-union of families long separated, again

[Column 2]
they meet in one unbroken chain, probably
never so to meet again on earth; but the
present is before them, and they ignore all
clouds that would presume to throw over
them the least shadow of gloom. It is a sea-
son of delights. Parents, grand-parents and
children, are one in love of the holiest and the
brightest, there is scarcely a difference in feel-
ing and enjoyment, all are young for that day
at any rate; they are awakened in the morning
by the bells "ringing in" the day on which,

Hark! the herald angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King,

Who came to redeem the beautiful crea-
tion of His Father! This thought gives
a sacred limit, beyond which no one passes
in their joyous hilarity! I am writing
no fiction, but an actual experience! The
festivities of Christmas was to be my subject,
and 'tis to me a pleasing one, and after three
decades of time, the very influence of those
happy times is around and about me; I es-
pecially see one, when a happy party had
filled the house from basement to attic from
Christmas to New Year; and at last it seemed
there came a lull—I saw eyes fixed on me,
enquiringly as the mental purveyor, and a
thought rushed impromtu into my mind, and
I exclaimed, "Suppose we all write to Mr.
Warren and get our characters?" Oh! it was
the richest thought of the season! Received
with clapping of hands, and a host of compli-
ments to dear mamma and aunt, what should
we do without her, etc. All sat down and
the matter was talked over in council, "How
shall we write? What shall we say?" etc.
I said, write freely, as if you were going to
write to me; either your own thoughts, or a
selection from your favorite author or poet.
(I would say in a parenthesis, Mr. Warren
was a gentleman who advertised to delineate
the character by the handwriting, and was
creating quite a sensation by the same.)
Soon each one was seated at desk or folio,
their whole soul absorbed in Mr. Warren and
what they were going to hear from him
through his prophetic proclivities. In due
time, and after an interregnum spent in pleas-
ing anticipation, a heavy mail arrived, and
O! the opening and the reading of these
wonderful letters! and O! the "characters!"
Certainly they were most interesting and
artistic, evidently written by a gentleman of
culture; all were pleased, and most were satis-
fied. I enclose two specimens of the bulk.
The lady to whom he first alluded was for a
time fairly posed, "Can it be true? Is it pos-
sible my hand indicates such a character?"
and such like exclamations, but I fearleesly
came to the rescue; for a sweeter, more woman-
ly character could not be; she was loving,
lovable, and ever beloved. I said, ‘No, Mary
dear, it has no likeness to your present charac-
ter, but I look back to you as a child, and I see
in you then the germs that might have ex-
panded into some such a character had you
unfortunately been a boy; I then playfully,
but truthfully drew a picture of her gay, joy-
ous, wild, almost reckless spirit in childhood,
recalling some of her juvenile exhibitions, etc.
She mused awhile, and then with the sweetest
candor she looked up at me and in the words
of Agrippa she said, "almost thou persuadest
me" that there may be truth in it! Now fol-
lows Mr. Warren's portrayal:
	"We wonder if nature eyer makes mistakes?

[Column 3]
If she does, we should feel inclined to move
for a writ of error in the present instance.
We must own ourselves fairly posed. One
who signs herself by the prettiest and most
euphonious of English female names, might
be expected to enlist some of the delicate
sensibility of Cowper's, or Burn's Mary; but
the applicant, whose writing is before us, ex-
hibits more of the heroic characteristics of
the celebrated "Maid of the Mill," than of
any other Mary we ever read of in history,
poetry, or romance; we repeat there must be a
mistake somewhere. Our judgment refuses to
ascribe, and our pen to assign any very
feminine qualities to Mary Smith. In th
name of all the Smiths at once (which is a
comprehensive an oath as can well be con-
ceived), what can we say to a lady the salient
points of whose character are all manly?
How shall we mention the headstrong cour-
age, bordering upon temerity, which we so
plainly discover? In what term shall we hint
at the strong dash of combativeness which
reveals itself to our critical inspection? Shall
we breathe our suspicions of her penchant for
horse-flesh? And her largely developed fox-
huntiveness? Mary Smith in a "pink" and
unexceptionable "tops," riding after the
hounds? Mary Smith on the 12th of August,
knee deep in heather, armed with a double-
barrel? Horace Smith, or Harry Smith we
could have understood, but the martial and
masculine Mary Smith is beyond our compre-
hensive senses, the most incongruous crowd
upon our mental vision; for the third time
therefore, we declare there must be some mis-
take about it. Our mysterious applicant must
pardon us, if she feels we have been shaken
from our propriety in the attempt to delineate
her autograph.					WARREN."
	One more character: "Let us at once pro-
ceed, without any preface or preliminary, to
chronicle our opinion of the fair and amiable
applicant who does us the honor of awaiting
our critical decree. We should be acting
most unjustifiably, if we either disparaged
by faint praise, or offended by a too flattering
portraiture, one who is, at the same time, so
candid and so deserving.The character we are
about to depict possesses in a high degree the
qualities of grace, wit, tact and tenderness.
Our applicant possesses very considerable
talent; it is under the control of sound judg-
ment, and is associated with much knowledge
and varied accomplishments. Liberality in
her case is exemplified, not only in acts of for-
mal charity, but in little quiet offices of kind-
ness, in efforts of zealous friendship, and in
her eagerness to put the best possible construc-
tion on the words and deeds of others. In
her cheerful moods the scintillations of her vi-
vacity are sometimes felt as well as seen; no-
thing, however, can be more unpremeditated
than such an effect, and if an occasional gust
of impatience ruffle the usually serene sur-
face of her mind, none are, at all events, more
free than she is from the sirrocco gales of an-
ger and malice; her tastes are elegant, and her
manners fascinating, and we scarcely know
what to wish amended in her character, except
it is a slight tendency to procrastination.

"To wish her kindlier is no need,
	More prudent, or more sprightly,
Or more ingenuous, or more freed
	From temper flaws unsightly."		WARREN.

Mr. Warren and his characters, of which


there were a lapful, and the comments they
called forth, made a very pleasing finale to
that most happy Christmas, and I will throw
no moralizing cloud over it, nor shall memory
do so either; and in looking back to that youth-
ful circle, I feel each one that comprised it
recalls it with the same pleasure as I do, and
realizes the blessed truth, that happiness once
given is “a joy forever.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
	MARTYDOM OF THE PROPHET
			AND PATRIARCH.
		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	On the 27th of the following September, five
hundred troops were marched into our city by
Governor Ford, pretending that they came for
the purpose of bringing the murderers of the
Prophet and Patriarch to justice. Having
previously plighted the faith of the state
that they, as prisoners, should be protected, he
could hardly do less, but the people looked
upon this as a vain and needless display; they
could read his heart and knew full well that
he was only feigning and that this was but
another exhibition of his hipocrisy. The same
day President Brigham Young recieved his
commission as Lieut.-General of the Nauvoo
Legion previously held by Joseph Smith. It
will be remembered that previous to his death
Governor Ford had disarmed the Nauvoo Le-
gion, which fact he was reminded of on
this day, while witnessing the review of the
Legion, as several of General Young's staff
appeared in uniform but without arms. Bro.
John Taylor was still lying very low from the
wounds received in Carthage jail.
	The private instructions to Lieut.-General 
Brigham Young accompanying the order is-
sued at Springfield, Oct. 9th, 1844, were not
calculated to allay, but on the contrary, to
excite the former suspicions of our people.
	The anti-Mormons were aware of the right-
eousness of our cause, having witnessed the
patient forbearance of a poor and persecuted
people under all their accumulated wrongs-a
little handful who had managed, through the
kindness of an all-merciful Father, to outlive
the dark and terrible scenes caused by their
cruel and barbarous treatment and drivings
in Missouri and then into Illinois. But they,
like our former persecutors, saw the advantage
that the "Mormons" had gained over them,
and they dreaded the power that we would
hold in that State if allowed to remain there
and enjoy our constitutional rights. And by
Jan. 1845, the vile plans concocted by those
sectarian demagogues and scheming politicians,
were carried into effect. Our city charter
and the charter of the Legion were repealed
by the Legislature--thus making outlaws of
a whole community of peaceable, law-loving
citizens of the United States of America--the
land of our birth. Yes, and a boasted land
of liberty and freedom, for the oppressed of
all nations. But the work of God still pro-
gressed. His Saints became more united, and
the work on the Temple went ahead with
greater speed than ever before, which caused
Satan to rage with  fury. The follow-
ing incident occurred in our family on the
29th of the same month, January, 1845. My
mother gave birth to her sixth son, Brigham
Willard; her health had greatly suffered in
consequence of the troubles. The great ex-
citement and anxiety of her mind, during the
scenes through which she had passed, being
too much for her feeble frame, she and her
babe were often times brought near to the
grave; but through mighty faith and the ad-
ministrations of the holy ordinances, their
lives were preserved.
	The trial of the men indicted by the

[Column 2]
grand jury for the murder of Joseph and
Hyrum Smith began at Carthage on the 7th
of May. The names of those men are familiar
to the Saints who were then living in that
part of the country. They were: Thomas C.
Sharp, editor of the Warsaw Signal; Col. Levi
Williams, a Baptist preacher; Jacob E. Davis,
Senator; Mark Aldrich and William N.
Grover.
	It is not my purpose to go into particulars
of their sham trial, as it has been published.
Suffice it to say that those assassins were
"honorably acquitted." But if they had been
"Mormon" criminals, there would have been
no mercy shown them, but would have met a
similar fate to Joseph and Hyrum. One of
the lawyers employed in defence of the mur-
derers said: "If the prisoners were guilty of
murder, then he himself was guilty. It was
the public opinion that the Smiths ought to
be killed, and public opinion made the laws;
consequently it was not murder to kill them!"
The following letter, written to Brigham
Young by the Attorney General of that State,
Josiah Lamborn, shows how intelligent and
honorable men viewed the course taken by the
members of that Legislature, and it will hit
not a few in this vicinity, as well as those at
a distance, who, through falsehood of the
blackest die, have instituted the present mode
of crusade only for the vile purpose of demoral-
izing and plundering their more virtuous,
honorable and industrious neighbors.
	He wrote: "I have always considered that
your enemies have been prompted by religious
and political prejudices and by a desire for
plnnder and blood, more than for the common
good. By the repeal of your charter, and by
refusing all amendments and modifications,
our Legislature has given a kind of sanction
to the barbarous manner in which you have
been treated. Your two representatives exert-
ed themselves to the extent of their ability
in your behalf, but the tide of popular passion
and frenzy was too strong to be resisted. It is
truly a melancholy spectacle to witness the
lawmakers of a sovereign State condescending
to pander to the vices, ignorance and malevo-
lence of a class of people who are at all times
ready for a riot, murder and rebellion. Your
Senator, Jacob E. Davis (one of the murder-
ers of Joseph and Hyrum), has done much to
poison the minds of members against anything
in your favor. He walks at large, in defiance
of law, an indicted murderer. If a Mormon
was in his position, the Senate would afford no
protection, but he would be dragged forth to
the jail or the gallows, or to be shot down by
a cowardly and brutal mob."
	Many (we admit) were the blind instruments
of apostates and a lawless, unprincipled clique,
and the same is true to-day; but they will shut
their eyes and their ears to the truth, little
realizing that they are striving against God
when trying to compel us to forsake His laws
and conform to theirs. Laws made by men
who are doubly dyed in the darkest pools of
corruption, and would profane and defile our
temples, that are being reared to His great
and Holy name, if they could, with all man-
ner of riot and revelling. This has been their
calculation, and to break us up, but they will
find, as have the rest, that this work was not
dependent upon Joseph Smith nor Brigham
Young, but that it is established no more to
be thrown down. Though many, through
various causes, have slackened in their faith
and fallen away, and some among us have
become puffed up in the pride of their hearts,
gold having become their God, duties and
covenants are set aside. But there are those,
and women too, who are as true as the Jewish
mother was who exhorted her seven sons to
be courageous, willing to suffer and to die if
needful, rather than deny or depart from
the laws of God, neither will they “submit to

[Column 3]
the tyranny to which Senator Edmunds pro-
poses to subject them," and we will say,
"Though the Lord be angry with us for a
little while, for our chastening and correction,
yet think not that our nation is forsaken of
God. But abide awhile, and behold His great
power, how He will torment thee and thy seed.”
	As James Arlington Bennett predicted of
the "Mormons" in 1842, in a letter to the New
York Herald: "They may kill one Prophet
and confine in chains half his followers, but
another will take his place, and the Mor-
mons will still go ahead. * * * Perse-
cute them, and you are sure to multiply them.
This is fully proved since the Missouri per-
secutions, as since that affair they have in-
creased one hundred fold. It is the best policy,
both for Missouri and Illinois, to let them
alone.” And we will say as he did, "Let
not the history of Daniel be forgotten."
	Though heavy clouds seemed to be lower-
ing over the devoted heads of the Saints,
looking at times very dark and threatening,
yet they could not prevent them from enjoying
the sunshine of peace, nor the bright hope
which rested down upon a loyal and God-fear-
ing people (whose consciences were void of
offence before Him and all the world) with
a brighter glow than they had ever before ex-
perienced. A material change was wrought
in society by the cleansing process which had
been going on, as much of the filth and scum
had passed off, giving still greater enjoyment
at our social gatherings. We had our con-
certs, assisted by the finest orchestra in the
west, and other innocent amusements, in
which the youth mingled with those of mature
years, and I can look back to them as some of
the happiest hours of my life.
	The dedication of the Seventies' Hall was
one of the most pleasant incidents in my recol-
lection. Commencing on the 25th of Septem-
ber, 1844, it was kept up for eight days--every
quorum meeting in regular order, accompan-
ied by members of their families, who pre-
pared "a feast of fat things," which was par-
taken of by all, including some of the Apostles,
the members of the Choir, and William Pitt's
band of music, who were in attendance each
day to sing the sweet songs of Zion, some of
which were composed for the occasion. For a
copy of several songs, composed and
sung on various occasions in our Nauvoo Con-
cert Hall, I am indebted to the kindness of
Sister Maria Burton, who, with her husband
R. T. Burton, were participaters in those
pleasant scenes, she being thoughtful enough
to preserve them, and which I think are well
worthy of a place in history.
	I here present the Hymn composed by
Parley P. Pratt for the dedication of the
Nauvoo Concert Hall, which came off Dec.
20, 1844.
		Truth is our theme, our joy, our song,
			How sweet Its numbers flow,
		All music's charms to truth belong,
			To truth ourselves we owe.

		'Twas truth that brought us from afar;
			'Twas truth that placed us here;
		Union and truth without a jar,
			Our Halls and Temples rear.

		'Twas truth first formed our band and choir
			On Zion's western plains;
		'Twas truth that tuned our earliest lyre
			In sweet harmonious strains.

		Sacred to truth this Hall shall be,
			While earth and time remains;
		Where the band and choir in harmony
			Shall sound their sweetest strains.

		By truth our union is complete,
			Our songs in concert rise,
		And by the power of truth we'll meet
			To sing amid the skies.

		Hosanah to the Prince of Peace,
			His truth has made us free;
		All hall the day of full release,
			The earths grand jubilee.
					[TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 139﻿


FLOWERS.

The theme is old—yet what is new?
Millions have trod the path that you
And I to-day are struggling through.

Millions have lived through Spring's bright hours
Have gathered, too, its choicest flowers,
And dreamed beneath its fairy bowers.

Have toiled beneath the burning sun,
Have fallen ere the course was run,
Which with light hearts they had begun.

And sweet-toned voices borne the song
From age to age, from throng to throng,
Which millions more will still prolong.

And yet the song is just as dear,
As bright the dream, as sad the tear,
That meet us in our pathway here.

So I would sing of God's loved dower,
That cheers the heart with magic power,
The sweet, the lovely, smiling flower.

We might have lived without their light,
But would existence be as bright
Did they not beam upon the sight?

They smile amid the darkest doom,
They chase the shadows from the tomb,
And teach as hope amid its gloom.

In them the resurrection trace,
We see the dead to life give place,
In beauty and in matchless grace.

And to those flowers of the heart,
Kind words of love that ne'er depart,
And many a heavenly action start,

To you I sing; oh, never die,
But live as on the moments fly,
'Til in a song is lost the sigh.
									HOPE.


[Column 1]
A SHORT CHAT WITH MRS. SCOTT.

	"If ye were of the world the world would love
its own; but because you are not of the world, but
I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the
world hateth you."—Gospel of St. John, xv, 16.

	The above passage of Scripture will explain
the mystery why all eyes are turning with hor-
ror toward Utah. Now, this horror and scared
feeling is all imaginary, and only seen at a dis-
tance, for the Latter-day Saints are at peace
with each other and all the world. The "Mor-
mon creed" is to "Mind your own business,"
but because they are called out of the world,
therefore the world hate them and say all
manner of evil against them falsely, for the
Gospel's sake.
	You say you would like to know how the
Mormon women do feel. I will tell you, They
all know that they are honored wives and
mothers acknowledged in society, with their
children, and are happy in knowing their hus-
bands are true to their marriage covenant,
whether they have one wife or more. The
Lord, seeing the wickedness and corruption on
the earth, in his wisdom has revealed the prin-
ciple of Plural Marriage, to purify society and
elevate woman from the degradation in which
man has placed her; and woe will be unto the
man that degrades woman, for she is a gift
from God. And I can positively assert that in
no place on the earth are chastity and virtue
in woman more honored and protected than
among the people called "Mormons."
	Now, we might be selfish and make a fuss
about our husbands taking other wives, if we
were of the world; but we are not of the
world, neither have we the spirit of the world,
but rejoice in the spirit of the Gospel, which
has made known unto us that these things are
true. I am honest to confess that nothing but
a sense of my duty to God, and a desire to
keep His command, could ever have induced
me to consent to my husband's taking more
wives, I have made the sacrifice willingly,

[Column 2]
and the Lord has blessed me abundantly with
joy and peace, which man can neither give nor
take away.
	I believe all you say with regard to the infi-
delity of husbands to their wives. There are
several cases of that kind in Salt Lake City; I
will mention one, my nearest neighbor, a Gen-
tile. He could strut around with his gold-
headed cane, drinking brandy, visiting houses
of prostitution, and moving in good society as
a gentleman, while his poor wife and children
were suffering for food and clothing, the "Mor-
mon" women administering to their wants.
Yet he would look with horror on his neighbor
who had more wives, and who provided for and
was true to them. Shame on such inconsis-
tencies! Oh, women of the world, can you be
happy under such treatment? I assure you
that the "Mormon" women need no sympathy
from Christendom, for they are happier in the
spirit of their religion than the women of the
world know how to be. Understanding the
noble mission of woman on the earth is to bear
the souls of men, and to obey the first com-
mand given to our first parents, to multiply
and replenish the earth, therefore they appre-
ciate their children, knowing, as Solomon, the
wise man has said, that they are "an heritage
from the Lord." The great promise made to
Abraham was, that to his posterity there should
be no end.
	Now, I will tell you some of our family se-
crets. The Lord has given to the Latter-day
Saints the sealing ordinance, whereby they are
married for time and eternity, husbands and
wives being united in the resurrection of the
just, to continue their family relations through-
out all eternity. How happifying the thought
that death will not separate us from our dear
one! Have the women of the world any such
assurance, when they are only married till
death doth them part? I am sincere in saying
I would not exchange places with any woman
in the world, nor give my knowledge and ex-
perience in Mormonism for all the wealth of
Christendom. While Congress is passing laws
against this people for imaginary evils, and
foster wickedness and crime in their own midst,
the "Mormons" will keep on in the even tenor
of their ways, realizing they are fighting
against God and His laws, and this nation will
have to pay the bill; for the Lord will protect
His people. Our Savior has said, "Blessed are
ye when men shall revile you, and persecute
you, and say all manner of evil against you
falsely, for my sake; rejoice and be exceeding
glad, for great is your reward in heaven.
					M. ISABELLA HORNE.


[Column 1]

LIFE IS WHAT WE MAKE IT.

	To some this may appear to be a very singu-
lar, if not an extravagant statement.
	You look upon this life, and upon this world,
and you derive from them, it may be, a very
different impression. You see the earth, per-
haps, only as a collection of blind, obdurate,
inexorable elements and powers; you look upon
the mountains, that stand fast forever; you look
upon the seas, that roll upon every shore their
ceaseless tides; you walk through the the annual
round of the seasons; all things seem to be fixed
—Summer and Winter, seedtime and harvest,
growth and decay. And so they are.
	But does not the mind spread its own hue
over all these scenes? Does not the cheerful
person make a cheerful world? Does not the
sorrowing person make a gloomy world? Does
not every mind make its own world? Does it
not appear as if indeed a portion of the divin-
ity were imparted to it, almost creating the
scene around it? Its powers, in fact, scarcely
fall short of the peculiar theory of those phi-
losophers, who have supposed that the world
had no existence but in their own minds.

[Column2]

	So, again, with regard to human life. It
seems to many, probably, unconscious as they
are of the mental and moral powers which con-
trol it, as if it were made up of fixed condi-
tions and of immense and impassable distinc-
tions. But upon all conditions presses down
one impartial law—to all situations, to all for-
tunes, high or low, the mind gives their char-
acter; they are in effect not what they are in
themselves, but what they are to the feelings
of their possessors. The king upon his throne,
and amidst his court, may be a mean, degraded,
miserable man, a slave to ambition, to voluptu-
ousness, to fear, to every low passion. The
peasant in his cottage may be the real monarch
—the moral master of his fate, the free and
lofty being, more than a prince in happiness,
more than a king in honor. And shall the
mere names which these men bear blind us to
actual position which they occupy amidst God's
creation? No; beneath that all powerful law
of the heart, the master is often the slave, and
the slave the master.
	It is the same creation upon which the eyes
of the cheerful and the melancholy look, yet
how different are the aspects which it bears to
them. To the one it is all beauty and glad-
ness; the waves of the ocean roll in light, and
the mountains are covered with day. It seems
as if life went forth rejoicing upon every
bright wave and every shining bough shaken
in the breeze. It seems that there were more
than the eye seeth—a presence of deep joy
among the hills and valleys, and upon the
bright waters. But the gloomy one, stricken
and sad at heart, stands mournfully gazing at
the same scenes, and what is it to him? The
very light seems a leaden pall thrown over the
face of nature; all things wear a dull dim and
sickly aspect. The great train of the seasons
are passing before them, but they sigh and
turn away as though it was the train of a fu-
neral procession; and they wonder at the poetic
representations and sentimental rhapsodies that
are lavished upon a world so utterly misera-
ble.
	Here, then, are two different worlds in which
these two classes of beings live; yet they are
formed and made what they are out of the
very same material, only by different states of
mind in the beholders. The eye maketh that
which it looks upon, the ear maketh its own
melodies or discords, and the world without re-
flects the world within. Every disposition
and all behavior has a kind of magnetic attrac-
tion by which it draws to itself its like. Self-
ishness will hardly be a centre round which
the benevolent affections cling. The cold-
hearted may expect to be treated with coldness;
the proud with haughtiness; the passionate
with anger, and the violent with rudeness.
Those who forget the rights of others, need not
be surprised if their own are forgotten; and
those who forget their dignity, and who stoop
to the lowest embraces of sense, must not won-
der if others are not concerned to find their
prostrate honor and lift it up to the remem-
brances and respect of the world. To the gen-
tle, how many will be gentle; to the kind, how
many will be kind; how many does a loving
example win to goodness, how many does
meekness subdue to a like-manner, when they
come into its presence; how many does sanctity
purify, how many does it command to put away
all earthly defilements, when they step into its
presence. Yes, the good will find goodness in
the world, the person of honor will find honor,
and the person of principle will find princi-
ple af religious integrity in the hearts of
others. There are no blessings which the mind
may not convert into the bitterest evils, and
there are no trials which it may not transform
into the most noble and divine of blessings;
there are no temptations from which the
virtue they assail may not gain strength.
	H. C. NORTON, M. D.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, . . Editor.
Published semi-monthly. In Salt Lake City, Utah
Terns: One copy one year, S2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Publisher Woman’s Exponent,
Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 15, 1883.


[Column 1]
UTAH'S CLAIMS TO STATEHOOD.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON STATISTICS,
APPOINTED AT THE CONSTITU-
TIONAL CONVENTION.

[CONCLUDED.]

	There are 3, 000 miles of common roadways
in Utah; 1,006 miles of railroads, 205 miles of
which were constructed during the past year;
2,647 miles of telegraph wires, 600 miles of tele-
phone wires, with 560 instruments; the means
of swift communication are rapidly increasing,
and trade with surrounding States and Terri-
tories is promoted by the extension of rail-
roads through their domain or to the line of
their borders.
	The amount of business transacted in Utah
may be estimated from the following report of
freights received and forwarded over the Utah
Central Railroad for eleven and a half months,
in 1882: At Ogden Station—Received: Ore,
1,969,707 pounds; Bullion, 50,482,633 pounds;
Lead, 7,140,256 pounds; Copper Matte, 881,-
629 pounds; Grain, 3,325,615 pounds; Green
Fruit and Vegetables, 4,660,996 pounds; Dried
Fruit, 818,753 pounds; Wool and Hides, 2,275,-
341 pounds; Salt, 10,219,310 pounds; Merchan-
dise, 8,530,901. Forwarded: Merchandise, 37,-
264,449; Grain, 4,429,276 pounds: Coal, 105,113,-
650 pounds; Charcoal, 2,122,000 pounds; Coke,
49,251,135 pounds; Lumber, 29,707,705 pounds,
Building Material, 1,310,755 pounds; Fire Brick
and Clay, 933,595 pounds; Machinery, 1,089.
614 pounds; Agricultural Implements 1,693,
290 pounds; Wagons, 3,828,440 pounds;
Live Stock, 344,000 pounds; Railway Materi-
al, 23,109,990; Ore, 10,172,298 pounds; Iron,
Nails and Stoves, 5,613,715 pounds; Iron Ore,
2,154,870 pounds; Spelter, 80,120 pounds; Sand-
stone, 508,150 pounds; Sundries, 7,592,078.
At Salt Lake Station—Received: Coal, 115,-
356,385; Coke 41,314,005; Charcoal, 331,800;
Iron Ore, 30,587,000; Lumber 30,419,470; Build-
ing Material, 1,898,275; Granite Rock 10,817,-
465; Machinery, 1,200,873; Agricultural Imple-
ments, 1,525,573; Wagons, 3,242,515; Live Stock
477,950; Flour and Mill Stuff, 1,472,950; Grain
8,022,946; Hay, 542,957; Green Fruit and Veg-
etables, 2,351,122; Wool and Hides, 385,250;
Railway Material, 22,745,905; Iron, Nails and
Stoves, 5,768,892; Fire Clay and Brick, 1,775,164;
Merchandise, 35,339,939; Sundries, 6,760,940.
Forwarded: Flour and Mill Stuff, 170,260; Grain,
657,018; Green Fruit and Vegetables, 2,739,60[-];
Dried Fruit, 819,986; Wool and Hides, 2,032,-
062; Fire Clay and Brick, 1,803,795; Merchan-
dise, 21,051,601; Sundries, 1,302,643; Limestone,
59,908,005; Salt, 10,011,442.
	The educational status of Utah is much higher
than is generally supposed. Her ratio of illiter-
acy, according to the latest census, is much below
the average of the nation; the percentage of
children over ten years of age unable to read

[Column 2]
3.27, and to write 6.13, while the percentage of
the whole country is 9.82 unable to read, and
12.44 unable to write. In this educational re-
spect Utah is ahead of thirty-four States and
Territories of the Union. A system of district
schools, partly supported from the territorial trea-
rry, has been established for many years and is
improving annually. The taxes assessed by the
Territory amount to three mills on the dollar for
general public purposes, and three mills on the
dollar for the payment of teachers in the district
schools. In addition to this a local option law
leaves it discretionary with the resident taxpay-
ers in each organized district to assess a property
tax for general school purposes not to exceed two
per cent. in one year. Thus, if the people choose,
schools may be supported entirely by taxation or
partly by tuition fees. Three trustees elected by
the registered voters in each district manage the
school affairs, while there is a superintendent in
each county and a general superintendent for
the Territory to take the oversight thereof. Ac-
cording to the official report of the last named
functionary to the Legislature of 1882, the number
of district schools was 395; the school popula-
tion—between 6 and 18 years of age—was 42,353,
of whom 62.3 per cent. were enrolled, and 44
per cent. of the whole number in actual attend-
ance. The average number of day schools
taught in the year was 140; the total amount
paid to teachers for the year, $117,948.92, and the
total value of school property, $115,185.77. Be-
sides the district schools there are several high
schools, a number of private academies, about
60 denominational schools supported by the dif-
ferent sects, and the University of Deseret, part-
ly supported from the territorial treasury. All
the principal religious bodies are represented
and have substantial church edifices.
	Literature finds a wide field in Utah. The
leading journals and the best magazines of the
country are well patronized, and there are pub-
lished in the Territory eight daily papers, nine
semi-weeklies, five weeklies, three semi-month-
lies, three magazines, and a number of manu-
script papers, besides occasional books and
pamphlets.
	Utah is one of the most lightly taxed portions
of this great country. The territorial and school
taxes are together but six mills on the dollar;
the maximum county tax allowed is only the
the same amount; municipalities can at the ut-
most levy a tax of five mills for general purposes
and five mills for road construction and repairs,
and their charters restrict them from running
into extensive debts. (Special act allowed Salt
Lake City to contract a debt of $250,000 for a
large irrigating canal, but a sinking fund is pro-
vided for its gradual extinction.) The taxable
property is assessed at near $30,000,000, mines
and Lullion being exempt. A high liquor
license regulates the traffic in intoxicants in
these localities where prohibition is not main-
tained, and this assists the public revenue,
which is expended economically for the pnblic
benefit, of which the substantial roads,
bridges, public buildings and other improv-
ments in the different counties and cities give
indisputable evidence.
	The capacity of Utah for self government has
been demonstrated during the period of her ter-
ritoral condition by the laws which have been en-
acted in her Legislative Assembly, and which
Congress has almost invariably approved, by the
fact that the Territory is out of debt and that
with the above named exception, there is no
bonded debt in any county or municipality;
by the peace which prevails within her borders;
by the security to life and property enjoyed, far
greater than in any western State or Territo-
ry; by the temperance, industry, frugality
and steady habits and progress of the masse'

[Column 3]
of the people, which have become proverbial; by
the honesty of her public officials, no case of
embezzlement of public funds having yet dis-
graced her.
	The regard of Utah for republican principles
has been exhibited in all her history. Equal
rights have been extended to citizens of every
class, color, party and creed. Liberty of speech
and of the press has been fully accorded. The
popular voice has ruled in such affairs as the an-
omalous territorial system has left to the people,
and a free and secret ballot expresses the popu-
lar will foreshadowed in caucus and convention.
No demand made upon Utah by the general
government has ever been denied. While the
right to criticize the acts of national officials
is claimed by the people, they are ardent and
zealous believers in the fundamental principles
of American institutions and firm supporters of
the Government of the United States. When the
Territory was first settled by them It was part of
the domain of Mexico, but they unfurled the
national flag, under which five hundred of their
able bodied men were then serving, forming
a provisional government after the pattern
of the States of the Union, and at once sought
recognition as an integral part of the United
States. They have remained loyal to their
country under every circumstance and have re-
peatedly appealed to Congress for admission to
Statehood, that they might bear their share of
the expenses of government and become really
and truly a part of this great nation, obeying its
general laws with fidelity while managing their
own domestic affairs according to the genius of
constitutional liberty, compatible with constitu-
tional responsibility.
	The constitution which has been adopted and
under which Utah seeks admission into the
Union would secure to the State the constitu-
tional requirement of " a republican form of gov-
ernment." It is a liberal, just and equal in its
provisions as any in the land. It embodies the
improvements which, in old established States,
have been found by experience needful to the
best good of the people. There is nothing in it
to which reasonable objections can be successful-
ly advanced. It is plain proof that the people,
who present it appreciate and are devoted to the
principles of genuine republicanism, and that
they are prepared to maintain those principles as
an organized common-wealth and a recognized
partner in the federal compact.
	With a large and growing population, a vast
and productive region of country, valuable in-
dustries, an enlightened and progressive people,
the convenience and facilities of civilization, a
solvent and honestly handled exchequer, unex-
celled thrift, sobriety, order, frugality and union,
experience in the management of local affairs, an
unexceptionable constitution, ambition to be-
come a truly republican commonwealth, and
prospects and capacities for immense develop-
ment, material wealth and political enlargement
and influence, Utah can reasonably claim candid
consideration as an applicant for Statehood
on an equal footing with existing States, and
does earnestly ask that prejudice and misjudg-
ment may be disregarded, in view of the unmis-
takeable evidences afforded of her fitness for the
responsibilities and privileges of a free State in
the grand and glorious American Federal Union.


THE PRESENT TIME.
	The condition of this people at the present
time is fraught with as great interest to those
who are watching the signs of the times, the
evidences of God's power, and who are actually,
and actively engaged in helping to establish
Zion, as at any period in the history of the Church.
To say we live in a momentous age, is but a feeble


[Column 1]

way of expressing the great and sublime events
that are transpiring all around us. We are apt
to look back and admire the great men and
women of the past and their heroic deeds,
and forget that we have in our midst men simi-
larly endowed with the holy Priesthood of God,
and women whose lives of heroism and self
sacrifice equal if they do not surpass any of
those we read about in the Scriptures, and
reverence be sublimely. That this is a brighter
age and one in which greater events is to
transpire than in any other period of the
world, the Latter-day Saints are taught to
believe. Joseph the Prophet and Seer so In-
structed the people, as he was taught of God
through direct revelation; and the Scriptures
abundantly testify of the truth of his words.
	Isaiah, in his most glowing and emphatic lan-
guage, prophetic in his utterances, has graphical-
ly described the latter-day dispensation. David
the sweet psalmist of Israel, speaks in his beauti,
ful way of the wonderful events of the
latter times, and the poet inspired of God
wrote, "Which kings and prophets waited
for and sought, but never found."
	It is not strange that the very people and
nations among whom these great events are
transpiring are almost regardless cf anything
beyond the ordinary, and yet all around them
the great programme of the Almighty is being
carried out in its several acts and various details,
and will eventually conclude with the re-
demption of Zion, end all the glories of the
kingdom Daniel saw in vision that should
break in pieces all other kingdoms and stand
forever.
	"He who runs may read;" it is as plain
to the understanding of those who are walking
in the light of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that
the events that are new on the tapis with
this people and the government of the
United States, are part and parcel, and a
most important part, too, of the great latter-
day drama. Can any one doubt what the re-
sult will be to this people of the agitation
on the subject of Mormonism, now so gen-
eral all over the land? Not those certainly
who have carefully observed the denouement
of each of the particular events termed epochs
in Church History since 1830. Those things
that seemed hardest to bear, that have been
considered, and in fact were, in one sense of the
word, the severest struggles of the saints
have in the outcome proved to be the great-
est blessings. It is not possible in a brief
sketch to mention them separately as they
have occurred, but certainly those who have
passed over the ground have seen for them-
selves. Thousands of instances might be
brought forward to prove the manifestations of
God's power among his saints; this people
called "Mormons," so despised of the world, so
hated, so persecuted. The Lord has in every
age provided, as it were, a ram in the thicket,
when He has brought his saints the house;
of Israel into strait places. Can we not be-
lieve He will do so now? Notwithstanding
the malice and bitterness of the world against
"Mormons," and their intercessions with Con-
gress to have oppressive laws passed against
them, and burdensome restrictions placed
upon them, depriving them of the rights accord-
ed by the Constitution to all freeborn men,
yet will the Lord In the future, as He has
in the past provide a ransom, but He will do
it in his own, way and time, and according to
his good pleasure. Men are simply the Instru-
ments in his hands and Legislatures, Cabinets
and Congresses, with all their wisdom, their
wealth and power, are his to mould and to
work with as seemeth Him good.
	The prophets in ancient times, as well as these

[Column 2]

in the present days, have spoken much against
being at ease in Zion; many think there is little
need of their help in the kingdom, as God will
perform the great labor of rolling forth his work.
But does not our Heavenly Father expect each
one to act nobly a part; to develop all the talents
committed to his keeping, and to acquire wis-
dom and strength to labor in the great vine-
yard? He most certainly does! It has been
through the united efforts of the whole people
led and guided by his servants that the work
has so far progressed, and let no one think his
help insignificant, for each has an important
part, be it ever so humble or obscure. The
prayers and faithful labors of the humblest of
the Saints may be as effectual in calling down
the blessing of God upon Israel, in its greatest
need, as that,which to those who are looking on,
seems the highest endeavor of the ablest man,
or woman who steps forward to assist in the
time of danger or difficulty. What could the
captain of a ship do without the sailors? and
yet he controls their labors, assisted by his
mates and pilot, and unless they obey his orders
all would be confusion, and the ship could not
reach the point they sailed for, and accomplish
the will of the owner who had sent them out
upon the ocean. And unless the captain listen-
ed to the pilot and was guided by the true com-
pass, the ship would be sure to go wrong. So
the Latter-day Saints must listen to the one
whom the Lord has appointed to direct the af-
fairs of the great ship Zion, and while he is
guided by the Holy Spirit which is ever the true
compass, for the prophets of God, the ship
will not be stranded, or cast upon the rocks
though heavy and perilous storms may arise,
and peradventure many of those on board may
become restless and uneasy and fearful; yet
if they will stick to the good and staunch
old ship they will at last reach a safe port; and
they need not sail blindly either, for each one on
board Zion’s ship has the privilege of carrying
with him a compass, the Holy Spirit in his own
heart. But to Jump overboard would be fatal.
How many have thought when trials come
along, well "I'll stand for myself, I am tired
of trusting to others, I see no way cut of
this difficulty, and I believe the leaders and
those who preside and direct the affairs of the
Church are all wrong, and I'll just give it all up."
Thus have such departed from the true light,
lost the faith once so dear to them and have
"sold their birthright for a mess of pottage!"
Nothing pays so well as to be a saint. How
many instances of the kind spoken of can one
recall, where those who have remained faithful
and true, have after years of endurance grown
doubtful, and finally fallen into darkness, and
wrecked the hopes once so strongly entertained
of salvation and exaltation hereafter. Humility
and prayers are necessities for the Latter-day
Saint. But in this busy world amid its every
day cares and perplexities, it is easy to forget to
seek diligently unto the Lord for testimony and
instead of doing so, may look around to see what
kind of lives the people are living among whom
their lot is cast, judging and condeming them
and taking their weaknesses and short comings
as testimony against the principles of the Gos-
pel, although perhaps wofully neglectful them-
selves of duties and careless of keeping the com-
mandments of God.
	There is no occasion for fear, if one will go to
with his might to do hls part, and where there
is union there will be power and the Lord will
withhold no good thing from his people. He
will raise them up friends on the right hand and
on the left, and carry them off victorious though
all the powers of earth combine against them,
for as the Scripture says "He will make the
wrath of the wicked to praise him."

[Column 3]

	Therefore it behooves the Saints to maintain
their integrity at the present time, to that which
has been revealed from heaven, be not fearful
but strong in the Lord; knowing that He holds
the nations in his grasp, and He can cast down
or raise up at His will. Never was there a time
when Zion had more need of intelligent workers
in the field than at present; and those too who
will work with wisdom and skill, and an eye sin-
gle to building up Zion instead of seeking their
own aggrandizement.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
		   ---------
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Y. L. M. I. A.
are respectfully solicited to prepare and forward
semi-annual reports in good time for the Secre-
tary of the Central Board to make a complete
report for the annual Conference in April. This
report is required at the office of President Tay-
lor ten days before the Conference. Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, President of the Y. L. M. I. A., is
anxious there should be a report from each of
the organizaitons. Send reports to the Secretary
Miss Loui Wells, care WOMAN'S EXPONENT
Salt Lake City.
	SISTERS M. I. Horne and E. Howard vistited
Summit County in the interest of the Deseret
Hospital, leaving this City Saturday morning,
Jan 27. and returning Feb. 3. On account of
the severe cold and stormy weather they did not
accomplish all they anticipated. They held two
meetings with the sisters, one at Coalville and
another at Grass Creek; several other appoint-
ments were given out for them, but the weather
would not admit of their traveling to keep them.
Every attention possible was shown to aid them
in the work they had in view; and at some
future time the ladies, who went as a committee,
will likely visit again on the same errand.
	THE Deseret Hospital, though still in its in-
fancy, is nevertheless filling a long felt need by
the people. Some changes have been made
since the institution first opened; but these
were deemed necessary by the managers for the
best good of all interested. Unforseen circum-
stances and requirements demand such changes
from time to time in all public institutions. The
people have donated liberally to furnish and
establish the Hospital, but all benevolent enter-
prises require extra exertions of this kind unless
they are liberally endowed, and it would take
years to procure the needful appurtenances and
conveniences for such an establishment if de-
pending upon fees alone. Much charity work
has been done; but good judgment and wise dis-
criminationa are necessary in the management
to know how to adjust all these matters. The
institution commenced very small, comparative-
ly speaking. The ladies who have charge des
affaires as an Executive Committee are well
known in the community, and their ability and
experience is unquestioned; under their able
management there is no doubt that everything
will be done in the best manner possible to pro-
mote the highest interest of the institution and
its permanent success.
	The young lady installed as house surgeon is
very competent, skillful and energetic, kind and
solicitious for the good of all under her care and
the prospertiy of the institution. Dr. Anderson
is the regular visiting surgeon, and his success-
ful career as a practitioner in Utah is too well
established to need comment. There have been
some very particular and interesting operations
performed since the Hospital was opened; and
there is every reason to believe that from this
small beginning a flourshing, praiseworthy and
benevolent institution will grow, that will be a
blessing and comfort to the afflicted and injured
among the Latter-day Saints. A full report will


be given of the condition of the Hospital, and
the work done there at the annual Conference
in April.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


﻿A FEW OF MY THOUGHTS AND RE-
			FLECTIONS.

   My mind has teen reflecting back to the days
of my youth. My parents never belonged to any
religious sect, but ever taught me good morals,
virtue and a sacredness of keeping the Sab-
bath. On one side of us the Methodists held
their meetings, on the other side the Quakers.
I had the privilege of going to either. When
I was twelve years old, I well remember there
was a Methodist revival which I attended,
Sunday after Sunday. They told us if we did
not repent and get religion, we would go to hell.
   It so wrought upon my feelings, I resolved
to get religion, but how to get it I did not
know, for they did not tell me. I spent sleepless
nights, and agonizing days, trying to get religion.
   I would retire to my chamber and try to pray,
but all I could say was, Father, l am a sinner, for-
give me. Farther than this I knew not what to
do. I dared not fell my mother the condition of
my mind; weeks passed by, and I still continued
in this frame of mind. Finally I resolved I
would quit the Methodists and go to the
Quakers, who always eat in silence, and
told me nothing bad; so, like all children, it
soon wore away; only at times I did feel I would
like to get religion, as I thought it made peo-
ple very good.  When I was eighteen years old,
there came to our town four Mormon Elders.
I begged of my mother to let me go and
hear them preach, to which she gave her con-
sent.  Every word that fell from their lips,
sank deep into my heart.  I said, that is truth.
   They taught me how to get religion; to
repent, believe and be immersed in water,
by those holding authority from God and I
should receive the gift of the Holy Ghost,
by the laying on of hands, as in the days of the
Savior. I obeyed and I bear my testimony
to the world, I did receive that living tes-
timony, not from mortal being, but from God
my Father, revealed from the heavens; and
that testimony assured me that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet, sent from God to bring forth the
Gospel in this last dispensation.  When I was
twenty-two, I obeyed the law of Celestial Mar-
riage.  My companion was just, virtuous, noble
in principle, a man, fearing God.  His first wife
whom he married three years before, was
kind, and noble principles dwelt in her heart;
she freely gave her consent to the marriage, and
we mutully agreed to travel the journey of
life together, because we sincerely believed it
was a commandment given from our Heavenly
Father. We have passed through many trials
together, in connection with our companion, but
those trials endeared us together.  I have lived
with and beside her for forty years; we loved
each other as dearly as earthly sisters could.
   A short time since she left us; Father called
her noble spirit home; I mourn her loss,
but death cannot sever the chords that bound
our hearts together, and I expect if faithful to
meet her in the spirit world and rejoice with
her.  When I think of the women of the out-
side world and consider how they look at the Lat-
ter-day Saints, and think we are impure
corrupt, and say all manner of evil against us, I
am led to exclaim Oh! that I could speak to
the nations of the earth, and bear my testimony
of the truth of the everlasting Gospel, that God
has revealed, the noble principles of integrity
and virtue that prevade the hearts of the
Saints of God who dwell in Utah; if they
could understand there things how changed
would be their feelings!  I pray the honest in
heart may be gathered out from the nations of
the earth, and be prepared to meet the Son
of Man, who is soon to come upon the earth, and
then all those who fight against Zion will perish
					MINERVA W. SNOW


OBITUARY.

	Died, in Evanston, Wyoming Territory, Jan. 17, 1883,
Eliza Martin, daughter of Hugh and Jane Watterson
Martin.
	Deceased was born in Motherwell, Lanark, Scotland,
June 17, 1866, and was in her 17th year at the time of
her demise. She was a faithful member of the Young
Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, also of the
Sunday School. She was kind and dutiful and beloved
by all who knew her. She leaves a loving father and
mother, four brothers and four sisters and many dear
friends to mourn her loss.
	NETTIE A. JONES.
Brighton, Salt Lake County, Jan. 21, 1883.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORT. 

	AMITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I feel it my duty to give a brief report of
the organization of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Amity, Arizona, which was organized Nov. 2,
1882, choosing Sister Julia A. Jenson presi-
dent. Our meetings are well attended, and a
great deal of good has been done since the or-
ganization. The young ladies show a desire to
press forward in this great work of the latter
days.	JULIA A. JENSON, Secretary.
		M. E. BIGELOW, Secretary.

	HOLDEN. Y. L. M. I. A.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Improvement and Primary Associations
are in a flourishing condition. The officers are
alive to their duties and are doing all they can
to instruct the youth of Zion.
	On the 5th of Nov. last, the Young Ladies'
Association of this ward was reorganized by
Bp. D. R. Stevens and counselors, with the
following officers: Emma J. Bennett, president;
Mary A. Stephenson and Annie R. Harmon,
counselors; Pauline Larson, secretary; Sarah
J. Gyles. assistant secretary, and Emma
Stringam, treasurer. We have about forty
members enrolled, and an average attendance
of thirty. Though our numbers are small, we
are striving to prepare ourselves to become
useful members in the kingdom of God. We
realize that we have a great work to perform,
and unless we are diligent we cannot expect to
gain the reward which our Father has promised
to His faithful children. Our worthy president
is a faithful and energetic woman, who is doing
all she can to help build up the kingdom.
	Our exercises consist of Bible and Book of
Mormon lectures, select readings, songs, recita-
tions, essays and testimonies. Our meetings
are very interesting, and we are all doing our
part to help them along, meanwhile remember-
ing that practice makes perfect.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, and
the success of the EXPONENT,
	We remain, your sisters in the Gospel,	
		EMMA J. BENNETT, President.
		PAULINE LARSON, Secretary.
	Holden, U. T., Feb. 1st, 1883.

BOUNTIFUL PRIMARY.
	East Bountiful Primary Association had a
Christmas tree in the Tabernacle, loaded down
with presents; many little hearts were made
glad that day. We had songs and recitiations
by the children; one piece, entitled, "The
Christmas Tree," by George Garrett," gave

[Column 2]

great satisfaction, and the children were not
the only ones that were made happy, for
through the kindness of Bro. W. W. Willey
and his kind-hearted wife, Sister Nancy Wil-
ley, president of the Young Ladies' Associa-
tion, and her first counselor, Sister Mary Call,
went to a few friends and collected $8.70; a
ton of coal was purchased and taken to the
house of Sister Ann Dustin, president of the
Primary, while she was busy with the children;
and the rest of the money was handed to her
at the Tabernacle, and it was a great surprise
to her. Many thanks to our Heavenly Father
for finding in the hearts of our kind friends
such good deeds that will ever be remembered.
	ANN DUSTIN, President.
	OLIVE SESSIONS, Sec. P. A. 

CENTER WARD PRIMARY. 
	Dear Sister Wells: Our Conference was held
about Christmas time. Two trees were filled
with books and a center table filled with flow-
ers, which the children made. We wanted the
motto, Primary Association, to hang over them,
but did not get it.
	We held our Conference on the 27th of Dec.
There were present on the stand: Bishop B.
Cluff, Supt. W. Blake, Sister Blake, first coun-
selor, Sister Richardson, second counselor.
The children went through their exercises,
which were appropriate for the occasion. All
felt well paid for coming. Our Association
numbers four officers and 24 members. We
have meetings every two weeks, the excer-
cises being Questions and Answers, recitations,
songs, etc. We are much pleased with the
Primary Speakers.
	Our Society has paid to Salt Lake Temple,
$15; to Deseret Hospital, quilt and tidy,
$6.10; for prizes, wool and work; $5.65; total,
$26.75. In treasury, one quilt and a few arti-
cles.
	The children, with Sister Cluff and Sister
Brown, all join in sending our love to you and
Sister Zina D. H. Young, hoping you may
have fine weather next time you come to 
Wasatch.
	Your respectfully,
		ANN HARVEY.

	PRIMARY FAIR AT SALINA.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Primary Association of Salina, Sevier
County, held a fair in the school-house, on the
18th day of January, 1883, representing the
handiwork of the little ones, from 4 years old to
14. The room was decorated very tastefully;
the walls with quilts and other articles. One
large table was spread with the children's arti-
cles, such as wool flowers, tidies, picture-
frames, scarfs, little cupboards, tables, garden
ladders, clay horses, stockings, cakes and pies,
cushions, and a great many more things that I
will not mention. The forenoon was spent
with recitations, songs, dialogues, and some very
good instructions by different ones. Prizes were
given according to merit. The children's din-
ner was brought there, which they partook of
with great appreciation, on account of being
together. After dinner, the children danced
until 5 o'clock, and then returned home very
cheerful and happy. The Association donated
$5 to the emigration fund. Much satisfaction
was given.
	MARY J. CRANE, President.
	ANGELINE MARTIN, Secretary.


FIFTEENTH ANNUAL CONVENTION.

	The proceedings of the fifteenth annual
convention of the National Woman Suffrage
Association were inaugurated at Lincoln Hall,
Monday evening, by a novel lecture, entitled
"Zekle's Wife."
	The lecturer was Mrs. Amy T. Dunn, of


[Column 1]
Indianapolis, but the personality of Mrs.
Dunn is so entirely lost in that of Zekle's
wife that it is hard to realize that the old lady
of so many and so varied experiences is the
handsome and happy young wife. As a char-
acter sketch, Mrs. Dunn's "Zekle's Wife"
stands on an equality with Denman Thomp-
son's "Joshua Whitcomb," and with Joe
Jefferson's "Rip Van Winkle," and is as
unique in its way as either of these characters.
To sustain a conception so foreign to the
natural charateristics of the actor without once
allowing the interest of the audience to flag
requires something more than ordinary talent
or a mere aptitude for recitation; it requires
originality of thought, independence of idea,
and genius for action. It requires also a
thorough sympathy with each and every sen-
timent expressed by that character. Mrs.
Dunn, herself the author of her sketch,
possesses to a remarkable degree the power to
impress upon her audience the feeling that the
old lady from "Kentuck" is before them, not
only to say things for their amusement, but
also to impress upon them those great truths
which have presented themselves to her mind
during the fifty years of her married life.
	"Zekle's Wife" is a keen, shrewd, warm-
hearted, lovable old woman, without education
or culture, yet with an innate sense of refine-
ment and touching undercurrent of desire
"not to be too hard on Zekle." As she tells
her story, which she informs us is a true one
from real life, she engages the attention and
wins the sympathy of all her hearers, and
frequent bursts of applause evidenced the
satisfaction of the audience on Monday even-
ing.
	The regular convention opened on Tuesday
morning, when a business meeting was held at
Lincoln Hall, at which various committees
were appointed, the most important of them
being the committee on resolutions, composed
of Lillie Devereux Blake, of New York City;
Virginia L. Minor, of St. Louis; Harriet B.
Shattuck, of Boston; May Wright Sewall,
of Indianapolis; and Ellen H. Sheldon, of the
District of Columbia.
	At the afternoon session Miss Susan B.
Anthony, who is always cordially welcomed in
Washington, addressed the convention, giving
a succinct, terse, and logical statement of the
reasons why she demanded a sixteenth amend-
ment to the Federal Constitution; or, "Why
we come to Congress."
	The special committee appointed to attend
to the work before the Senate committee, re-
ported that two hearings were given the officers
of the convention, and that of the reports of
the Senate committee with regard to a six-
teenth constitutional amendment the majority
report in its favor was presented to the Senate
by Senators Lapham, Ferry, Blair, and An-
thony, Republicans. The minority report
against the amendment was presented by Sen-
ators George, Jackson, and Fair, Democrats.
	Mrs. Spofford, the treasurer, reported that
$5,000 were spent in Nebraska in the endeavor
to carry the amendment in that State.
	May Wright Sewall, of Indiana, then spoke
on "The Lesson of the Nebraska Campaign."
Mrs. Sewall said: "Women must learn that
power gives power; that intelligence alone can
appreciate or be influenced by intelligence;
that justice alone is moved by appeals based
on justice. More than anything in the course
of suffrage labor does the Nebraska campaign
justify the primary method of this national
association. We have a right to expect that
each State Legislature will be composed of
the picked men of all the States. We have a
right to believe that as the intelligence, wis-
dom, and justice of the picked men of the na-
tion are to the same qualities in the mass of
men, so is the fitness of national and State
legislators to consider the demands for the

[Column 2]
ballot, to the fitness of the means to consider
this question. The lesson is, let not the work
in the States he abandoned, but let all the
States unite in the national method, and let
the women of all sections, as equal citizens of
the nation, demand the nation's protection in
the fundamental rights of citizens of the re-
public, the right indeed upon which a republic
is built—the right of franchise." Mrs. Sewall
was frequently interrupted with applause, and
at the close of her address was warmly
approved,
	Mrs. Mills, of this city, sang, as a solo,
"Barbara Fritchie," in excellent style. At
the evening session the time was divided be-
tween Lillie Devereux Blake and Phoebe W.
Couzins. Mrs. Blake spoke on the question:
"Is it a Crime to be a Woman?" She showed
in a clear, logical manner that wherever a
woman was apprehended for crime the dis-
crimination against her was not because of the
crime she had committed, but because the
crime had been committed by a woman. Mrs.
Blake further said that every woman in this
country was treated by the law as if she were
to blame for being a woman. In New York
an honorable married woman has no right to
her children. A man may beat his wife all
he pleases, but if he beats another man the
law immediately interferes, showing that the
woman is not protected simply because she is
indiscreet enough to be a woman. If it is not
a crime to be a woman, why are women sub-
jected to unequal payment with men for the
same service? Why are they forced at times
to don men's clothes in order to obtain employ-
ment that will keep them from starvation?
Miss Couzins began by saying that the Ameri-
can-born woman was "a woman without a
country;" but before she had closed she had
proved that this country belonged exclusively
to the women. It was a woman, Queen
Isabella, who enabled a man to discover this
country, and in the old flag the initials were
"I" and "F," representing Isabella and
Ferdinand, showing that it was acknowledged
that the woman's initial was the most import-
ant in this matter and to be first considered.
It was a woman, Mary Chilton, whose feet
first landed on Plymouth rock. It was a
woman, Betsy Ross, who designed our beauti-
ful flag, the original eagle on our silver dollars,
and the seal of the United States, without
which no money is legal. All the way down
in our national history woman has been hand
in hand with man, has assisted, supported, and
encouraged him, and now there are women
ready to help reform the life of the body poli-
tic, and side by side with man work to purify,
refine, and ennoble the world. Miss Couzins
seemed inspired with her own thoughts and
carried the audience along with her in her
flights of eloquence.

RESOLUTIONS.

	Resolved, That the women citizens of the
United States demand the right to vote, in or-
der that they may be able directly to influence
legislation for the promotion of morality and
good government, and the protection of the
best interests of their sex; that woman suffrage
means stable institutions, happy homes, equal
wages, aud equal purity for men and women.
	Whereas, In larger numbers than ever be-
fore, the women of the United States are de-
manding the repeal of arbitrary restrictions
which now debar them from the use of the bal-
lot; and,
	Whereas, The recent defeat in Nebraska of
a constitutional amendment, giving the women
of the State the right to vote, proves that in-
comprehension and consequent failure is the
natural result of an appeal to the masses on a
question which is best understood and approved
by the more intelligent citizens; therefore,
	Resolved, That we call upon this Congress

[Column 3]
to pass, without delay, the Sixteenth Amend-
ment to the Federal Constitution now pending
in the Senate, which prohibits the several
States from disfranchising United States citi-
ens on account of sex.
	Resolved, That the thanks of the National
Association are due to the members of the Sen-
ate and House committees on the claims of
women citizens for their favorable considera-
tion of the women suffrage measures now be-
fore them, and their unfailing courtesy to those
who have urged these measures upon their at-
tention.
	Resolved, That all competitive examinations
for places in the civil service of the United
States should be open on equal terms to citi-
zens of both sexes, and that any so-called civil
service reform that does not correct the existing
unjust discrimination against women employees
and grade all salaries on merit and not by sex,
is a dishonest pretence at reform.
	Whereas, The Constitution of the United
States declares that no State shall be admitted
to the Union unless it have a republican form
of government; and whereas, no true republic
can exist unless all the inhabitants are given
equal, civil and political rights; therefore,
	Resolved, That we earnestly protest against
the admission of Dakota as a State, unless the
right of suffrage is secured on equal terms to
all her citizens, women as well as men.
	Resolved, That the proposition to disfran-
chise the women of Utah, for no cause
whatever, is a cruel display of the power
which lies in might alone, and that this
Congress has no more right to disfrancise
the women of Utah than the men of Wyo-
ming.
	Whereas, The foreign emigration to our coun-
try is constantly increasing, having during
the past year reached the enormous sum of a
half a million of people; and whereas, two
thirds of these foreigners are men; therefore,
	Resolved, That it is of growing importance
to give the ballot to the women of the coun-
try for the maintenance of American in-
stitutions.
	Whereas, Disfranchisement is a punishment
which a republic ought not to inflict upon its
citizens unless they have been guilty of crime;
and whereas all men regard the denial
of political rights as a humiliation, Judge
Black having, in his opinion on the Ed-
munds bill, accurately spoken of "an in-
famous and degrading penalties of disfran-
chisement;" therefore,
	Resolved, That the law-abiding, taxpaying
women citizens of these United States have
not deserved the infliction of this punishment,
and do most earnestly demand that they be
relieved from the cruelties it imposes upon
them by disfranchisement.
	Whereas, during the war, hundreds of
women throughout our land entered the ser-
vice of the nation as hospital nurses; and
	Whereas, many of these women were disabled
by wounds and disease, while many were re-
duced to permanent invalidism by the hard-
ships they endured; therefore,
	Resolved, That these women should be
placed on the pension list and receive suitable
means in consideration of their services.
	After the reading of the resolutions an
animated discussion followed, Miss Anthony
showing in scathing terms the injustice of the
employment of women to do equal work with
men at half the salaries in the Departments at
Washington and elsewhere.
	A resolution was added and adopted declar-
ing that paying Dr. Susan A. Edson for her
services as attendant physician to President
Garfield $1,000 less than was paid for the
same service rendered by Dr. Boynton, a more
recent graduate of the same college from
which she received her diploma, is an unjust
discrimination on account of sex.


During the discussion of the resolution
Mrs. Sewall said that men clerks in the De
partments were given extra leave of absence
each year to go home to vote. She suggested
that women clerks be given (until the time
comes for them to vote) extra leave to medi-
tate upon the ballot.—Washington Chronicle.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	MRS. W. East writes from Smithville, Arizo-
na, enclosing subscriptions to the EXPONENT,
that she hopes soon to be able to increase her
list for it, as they find the paper invaluable in
that far-off land, as the representative of our
organizations, and they feel to assist in the de-
velopment of the eternal truths contained in
its pages. She adds: "Success to our little pa-
per, which will soon be in its teens. May it
grow in power and influence with its years."
It is very gratifying to those who labor in the
interest of the EXPONENT, to know it is appre-
ciated, in the different settlements even outside
Utah. It shall be our constant aim to make it
interesting to its many readers.


LITTLE LETTER.

		RICHMOND, Jan. 24th, 1883.
	Dear Sister Wells.—It is with pleasure I sit
down to write a few lines to put in the Wo-
MAN'S EXPONENT, as I thought you would
like to know how our Primary in Richmond is
getting along. I am a member of the Prim-
ary Association here and have been ever since
it commenced. I am now eleven years old, and
feel very thankful to have the privilege of go-
ing to those little meetings. I always try to do
what my president and counselors tell me to
do. And I am happy to say that our meetings
are improving very rapidly; and we have re-
ceived a pretty little card with those beautiful
words, "Children, love each other." Yes, that
is our motto, and we should love each other,
and above all our Heavenly Father. Our
meetings are very interesting, and I would
counsel my young brothers and sisters to at-
tend to their meetings, because I know the
Lord blesses us in so doing; and be obedient to
our parents and attend to our prayers, that the
Spirit of the Lord may rest upon us, to guide
us through life, that we may grow up to be
honorable men and women in the Kingdom of
God. We should read good books and attend
to our Sunday Schools and every meeting that
we possibly can. And we should keep the
commandments of God, and we will be sure of
our salvation. May this be our happy lot, is
my prayer.
	I remain, your sister in the Gospel,
		MARINDA MONSON.


RESPECT TO THE AGED.
	BLOOMINGTON, Idaho, Jan. 28, 1883.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister.--At the request of President
Greenhalgh, I send you an account of a party
given to the aged brethren and sisters of
Bloomington, under the direction of our much
respected Bishop, Wm. Hulme. We were hon-
ored by the presence of Bros. J. H. Hart and
Geo. Osmond, of the Presidency of the Stake,
and Sisters J. P. Lindsay and E. Collins, of
the Stake Presidency of R. S. There were
present on the occasion between 95 and 100,
who all seemed to enjoy the entertainment.
	After dinner was over, the time was occu-
pied by the brethren and sisters in singing,
dancing, speechifying and select reading. Pro-
gramme, as carried out: Opening prayer, Bro.
JohnWither; address by the secretary; song,
Bro. and Sister Greenhalgh; speech, Father
Pattern, 84 years of age; hornpipe, Father
Ward, 64 years of age; do., J. Haddock.


After which, we received some very excellent
instructions from President Lindsay. Song,
Father Jarvis. Counselor Collins made some
interesting remarks, and gave good and neces-
sary advice to young mothers. Father Nelson,
80 years old, led his granddaughter out for a
waltz, which was permitted out of respect to
the Scandinavians present. Sister Womsley
made a few remarks, and said she had been. 46
years in the church. Select reading, Sister E.
Long; dance, H. Roberts; song, Sister M. Rob-
erts; dancing; recitation, Bro. James E. Hart;
song, Bro. Greenhalgh; song, Bp. Hulme; do,
Bro. Long; do., Bro. Hart. President Osmond
expressed his pleasure at meeting on such an
occasion as this, and thought it would be long
remembered; spoke at some length of the early
settlement of the valley. President Hart ex-
pressed himself as being pleased with the en-
tertainment, and gave us instructions on vari-
ous subjects, which were appreciated by all
present. Benediction by Bro. Collins.
	Yours respectfully,
		E. E. C. PIGGOTT.


﻿A JOYFUL TIME.
	In honor of Sister Margaret Randall, a no-
ble and much beloved mother in Israel, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Centreville, Da-
vis County, a party was given on her birthday,
Jan. 13th ult., by the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety. About forty persons assembled at her
residence. A bountiful repast had been pre-
pared, tables were spread and all sat down to a
luxurious feast. After supper, Sister Whitta-
ker, in behalf of the sisters, presented Sister 
Randall with a handsome dress pattern and
trimmings. Her eldest daughter presented
her a shawl from her children. The secretary
of the Society read an address, entitled, “Our
Worthy President,” expressive of the love and
esteem cherished by the sisters of the Society
for their President and their appreciation of
her kindness and good works. Sister Randall,
although much overcome with these expres-
sions of kind feelings, thanked and blessed the
sisters for their manifestations of respect. The
afternoon was occupied in speeches and songs.
It was an occasion never to be forgotten.
			S. A. Reeves, Sec. R. S.


You never know how much water an
umbrella is capable of containing, until you
accidentally stand it against the wall and on
the pearl-covered carpet that cost $5 per yard.

	The researches which the Archeological
Institute of America is carrying forward at
Assos, in Asia Minor, the site of an old
Greek town, have led to the recovery of one of
the most interesting of ancient Doric temples,
and to the discovery of sufficient details to al-
low of its complete restoration. Some frag-
ments of relics from this temple have long been
counted among the most precious treasures of
the Louvre. Many additional fragments have
now been found by the American expedition
besides other works of value, such as floor mo-
saics, vases, sarcophagi, etc.—Ex.

	For tables about which children may gather
without any warning off, whether in nursery,
dining-room or sitting-room, covers of linen
crash are used, and made handsome by outline
embroidery. Such a one has a border in scroll-
work ten inches wide, about three-eighths of a
yard from the edge, and crossing at the corners.
The whole body of the cloth is worked in a
large floral design, so as to leave large
spaces of the cloth untouched. The colors
used are shades of red, from dark brown red or
light red. At the edge small linen tassels tea
set on about ten inches apart, and hanging from
a stout linen thread an inch and a half long.
This cloth is washable as well as durable. --Ex.


MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON

Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks cast
of the Deseret National Bank, and half a
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper’s.
Men's Socks, Ladies’ and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies’ and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS  CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent’s Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children’s Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S.P.TEASDEL.
Z.C.M.I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4th East Streets.
Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting
Flannels, White Yarns, Wool Batting,
Shawls, Colored Yarns, Brooms,
Linseys, Cassimers, Washboards,
Jeans, Tweeds, Brushes, Etc. Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
---HAVE---
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.
DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
—AND---
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
