VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1882.	No. 13.


THANKSGIVING.
	BY HANNAH T. KING.

Holy Father! we, thy people, bow
Before thy grand, Paternal throne, to pay
Our grateful trubute on "Thanksgiving Day,"
And with the nation bend before thee now.

Now, to-day, this hour, the nation's praise
Is rendered for thy rich, Paternal care,
Which thou to every grade alike doth share,
And every grateful heart its poeans raise.

Poeans of gratitude, that the passing year
Has seen Thine hand of mercy richly spread
O'er every rank, e'en to the nation's head--
Thy Godlike wisdom doth to all appear!

Health, wealth, and furthermore sweet peace,
In great abundance has been dealt to all;
Upon the just and unjust doth Thy bounty fall,
And by Thy mandate wars and rancor cease.

O Father!  breathe into the nation's car,
And into his who holds the keys of state,
That he may wisely read the scroll of fate
That Time unrolls, thro' each eventful year;

The nation rouse from its lethargic state,
With eyes wide open may it see the pit
Already yawning to sepulchre it--
May it be warned before it be "too late!"

Columbia! favored spot of earth,
May'st thou be wise in this, thy day of grace!
May'st thou remember, in thy "pride of place,"
God had a purpose in thy wondrous birth.

Seers, long past, beheld thy rising ray,
And named thee "Land of Promise," bright and fair,
That, if obedient, thou should'st be the heir
To herald forth the consummation day.

Do not the whisperings of thy Spirit tell
The great events all nations will behold?
Which soon the scroll of fate shall wide unfold,
And history's page with mighty doings swell.

And in the mountains, Utah's peaceful vale,
Thy people lift, as with one heart, to Thee,
A song of praise, thanksgiving, that they see
Thy hand protecting them when foes prevail;

We are Thy people, tho' weak and frail we be--
We hold the oracles of the latter days!
Sweet gratitude inflates our song of praise,
And heart, and brain, and knee we bow to Thee!
Salt Lake City, Thanksgiving Day.


[Column 1]
A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.

MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

Concluded.

	We have given only the outlines of the life
of the lady who forms the subject of this
sketch, but her domestic associations, her actual
self-sacrifices, her consecration to religious duty,
the inner life of the woman we cannot pretend
to portray. We simply give what we see from
the outside. The heart knoweth its own griev-
ances or joys.
	Mrs. Horne's family are certainly a great
credit to her training and example. The chil-
dren are following in wisdom's ways, and seek-
ing to obtain an exaltation hereafter. This is
the happiest result that a mother could desire.
	On the occasion of the demise of her
daughter-in-law (Lydia Weiler, daughter of
Bishop Weiler of the Third Ward of this

[Column 2]
city), Mrs. Horne, after attending her through
a very severe illness, took the babe six
weeks old to raise. She was at that time
sixty years of age, and her hands and heart
full of public work, yet her large motherly
heart opened to the little orphaned one,
and she took it to her maternal bosom,
and cherishes it as her very own. After hav-
ing reared a large family and seen them take
their places in the world's busy workshop,
to be able physically and mentally to go forth
into a wider field of action, and labor for hu-
manity, is something grand and high. That
there are women who can do this, and perform
their part well, we are proud to record. And
why should we not appreciate and honor those
who are willing to devote their lives, their hap-
piness, and their sacred honor to do good to
the human family? Mrs. Horne has been an
officer and active worker in the silk industry
ever since the culture was introduced into this
country. She is at the present time a member
of the board of directors of the Deseret Silk
Association. At the time of the organization
of the board of officers for the Deseret Hos-
pital in May, 1882, Mrs. Horne was elected
Chairman of the Executive Committee. This
institution has taken much executive ability to
establish, and Mrs. Horne has given efficient
aid in this labor, and still continues to do so.
	Mrs. Horne's large family have each been
called upon to fill positions of trust and useful-
ness at various times. Her eldest son, Henry,
was for eleven years Bishop in Paris, Idaho; in
1880 he moved to Arizona, to assist in coloniz-
ing there, and was appointed Counselor to
David P. Kimball. It takes men of energy
and determination to settle up new tracts
of country. Joseph, when about twenty
years of age, was called on a mission of three
years and a half to Switzerland, where he ob-
tained a thorough knowledge of the German
language; on his return he was called to be
Bishop of Gunnison, Sanpete Co., which posi-
tion he held for ten years, when he was again
called to Switzerland to preside over the Swiss
and German mission, and to edit the Stern,
published in Berne, being absent from home a
year and a half. In 1878 he was called to be
Bishop in Richfield, Sevier Co., which position
he still occupies; is also Mayor of that city.
Richard, who resides at present in this city, is
engaged as a teacher, a profession he is par-
ticularly well adapted to fill. While residing
in Beaver a few years since he was Superin-
tendent of the Sunday School, and has filled
several home missions. John, the youngest
son, was the first President of the Young Men's
Mutual Improvement Association in the Four-
teenth Ward in this city, and is a good, faith-
ful Elder in Israel.
	Mrs. Horne's daughters are not a whit be-
hind her sons in intellectual capacity and de-
velopment. Lizzie, the eldest daughter, and
wife of Edward Webb, lives at Deseret, Mil-
lard Co., and is a womanly woman, who might
grace any society. Like her mother, she has
borne a large family, fourteen children, and as
yet has had no spare time to devote to public
duties. Nora, the second daughter, wife of
George Spencer, son of Orson Spencer, some-
what famous in Church history for his valua-
ble writings as well as great missionary work
in America and Europe, resides in Paris,
Idaho; we have stated before in this biographi-
cal sketch, that Mrs. Spencer was a strong-
minded woman; no doubt some time in the fu-

[Column 3]
ture she will come before the public as an ac-
tive worker. At present she is Treasurer of
the Relief Society in the town where she re-
sides, and renders good service to those with
whom she is associated in the work. She has
had eight children, and is a most devoted wife
and mother. Julia married William S. Bur-
ton, and died in childbed in her first confine-
ment, leaving a baby girl that died at the age
of eleven months. She was a beautiful and
attractive woman. At the first organization of
the Y. L. M. I. A. in the Fourteenth Ward,
she was chosen President. At the re-organiza-
tion of that Association a few years later, Miss
Cornelia Horne was made President; she was
also for three or four years Business Manager
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and is a very
talented young lady. She has a magnificent
voice, and has sung considerably before the
public. She is the wife of James Clayton and
the mother of two little boys, and will doubt-
less have a large family, like her mother and
sisters. Minnie, her twin sister, was for several
years Secretary of the Young Ladies' Associa-
tion and the Sunday School in the ward. Since
her marriage to Wm. James she has been chosen
President of the Primary Association of the
Seventh Ward. She has one little daughter,
and the brightest prospects before her. The
two unmarried daughters are great helps and
blessings in the home, devoted to their parents
and their religion.
	Mrs. Horne has endured much hardship, and
encountered dangers and severe storms, in trav-
eling through the settlements. At one time
going from Mayfield, Sanpete Co., to Salina,
Sevier Co., in company with "Sister Eliza,"
the driver mistook the way, and they were
lost in the mountains for some hours, where
there was no road or track of man or beast,
and they were jostled and shaken about fear-
fully, besides not knowing whether they wonld
reach a human habitation before nightfall. At
another time, coming through the mountain
canons from Provo valley, the snow storm was
so severe that it was almost impossible to travel
at all; but Mrs. Horne and her traveling com-
panion, Mrs. Howard, were wrapped in quilts,
over all their own wraps, and had a wagon
cover fastened securely around them, to protect
them from the inclement weather, as they were
journeying in an open vehicle. To those who
may think it all pleasure so to travel among the
people and speak in public, these facts will be
educational, as we often hear of people saying,
"Oh, these women, they like that sort of thing;
it's from choice they tramp over the country
and speak on the platform." It is a stern
sense of duty, and not pleasure, that induces
our women to take up this heavy cross. And
indeed, what else should tempt them? They
have happy homes and pleasant surroundings,
they do not speak for money, they are not paid
for the service they render the people, and
therefore one may naturally conclude they are
working for Zion just as faithfully as the El-
ders who go out to preach the Gospel, only in
another department of the labor.
	In concluding this little historic review of
the life of one of the leading women of the
Church, we cannot refrain from saying it is a
satisfaction to present the incidents of such
lives to the public, that the young people grow-
ing up around us may know what kind of
women helped to lay the foundation of this
Latter-day work.
	November 20th was the anniversary of Mrs.


Horne’s birthday, and a few of her friends
spent a pleasant evening at her residence. She
was presented by the ladies with a very hand-
some photograph album, with the promise of a
picture from each one of them, to make the
group complete. Congratulatory remarks were
made by several of the ladies present, and
toasts given by Mayor Jennings and Judge
Miner, the lady herself responding in a very
happy and appreciative manner. Mr. and
Mrs. Horne have been married over forty-six
years, and there is every prospect that they
will be able to celebrate their “golden wed-
ding." May peace, prosperity, and domestic
felicity continue to be their lot in life, and
an eternal exaltation hereafter be the reward
of their faithful labors.	E.	B.	W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS INNAUVOO
				——
	       BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
				——
   By some it may be thought an excess of sen-
timent in me to publish extracts from so many
of my parents’ letters, and I will here just say
that I have not done so for the mere pleasure
of rehearsing them, for I felt a delicacy in so
doing, and had it not been for the urgent re-
quest of others, who expressed their pleasure in
readiug them, I should have ceased long since.
   The correspondence from May 21st till June
30th, 1844, contains some interesting items,
which will no doubt be read with unusual in-
terest at this peculiar period of our history.
   It was understood before my father left for
the East, that my mother should accompany
George J. Adams to Philadelphia, where she
was to meet him, and that I should go, too, if
sufficient means could be procured. We were
to start by the 1st of July. My mother, Wil-
liam and myself accompanied father to the
steamer, and remained on board till it started.
When we parted he said to me, “Come with
your ma if you can, but I beg you not to stand
in the way of her coming but do all you can
to help her oft.” I had a great desire to go
back and make a visit; besides, I wanted to
see something of the world, and my feelings
were sorely tried, as well as my weak faith; in
fact, I was considerably disaffected, and like
many of our youth in these valleys, I imagined
that all was fair and beautiful without, and
that there my days would be one round of
pleasures; at all events, I was’ bound to go
whenever my mother went. She was feeble in
health and one or more of the little boys were
sick, and withal there seemed an unusual
gloom, or foreboding of something, they knew
not what. The following I extract from a let-
ter commenced at Legrand, Missouri. Father
writes:
   “ Although I bade you farewell this morning,
* * * no tongue could express my feelings.
What a pleasure it would have been if I could
have left you and the children well, and my
heaven on earth in less confusion—for my
home is my heaven here; but it was not so.
How my heart beats with sorrow and pain; I
feel as though it would melt within me. Every
thread and fibre in my body feel it so keenly.
It seems, sometimes, as though I could not en-
dure the things that lie before me; but God is
able to do all things for us, so hold on, my
dear Vilate, for my sake and those little chil-
dren that He has given us. O how I felt when
I left them! Before I began this letter I left
the boat and went on top of a mountain, and
offered up a prayer to the Lord, that peace
might be with us forever. 	*	*	*	
 “ 22d. We are at the mouth of the Mis-
souri river. I feel very unwell this morning—
did not get much sleep. I was conversing with
a lawyer from Pittsburg till near twelve o’clock,
and laid down on the table and took cold—the

[Column 2]
staterooms were all full when we got on. The
lawyer with whom I conversed said he was
confounded, and that I had knocked out all of
his props, and he was almost persuaded to be a
Christian—he should vote for Joseph Smith,
any how. He said I was one of the strangest
men that he had ever met. 	* *  *	 Elders
Wite, Miller and Dr. Young delivered speeches
on politics. It has been business times on
board this boat, but all good natured. This
morning we have taken the election, the difier-
ent candidates for President: For Joseph
Smith, four ladies and sixty-three gents; for
Clay, six ladies and twenty-seven gents; for
Van Buren, two ladies and thirteen gents; for
Cass, one; for Birny, two; Johnson. none;
Calhoun, none.
   There are one hundred and seventy passen-
gers, seventeen cabin passengers. Mormonism
is the topic this morning. I will be obliged to
stop writing for confusion.
   “ 23d. It was twelve o’clock when I got
into bed last night. William Smith came on
board before I was up. We have taken a boat
bound for Pittsburg—the best on the river. If
I could just look in and say good morning, and
see. that pleasant smile I so often get, and those
little children I so dearly love, what a comfort
it would be. I hope you will come with Elder
Adams; start by the 1st of July, lest the water
gets low. Remember me to Helen and Sarah
Ann Whitney, and tell them to be good girls
and cultivate union, and listen to counsel from
the proper source—then they will get the vic-
tory.”
   He wrote from Pittsburg, saying they ar-
rived May 30. They had had much peace and
good feeling, had preached four times between
there and St. Louis, and conversed most of the
time when awake upon religion and politics.
When he left us he had but fifty cents in
money, and he sent us things that cost nearly
twelve dollars, by Mr. Halliday, a merchant of
Nauvoo. He wrote in this letter: “ While at
Cincinnatti I had eleven dollars given me, with
which I bought the groceries, etc., which I sent
you, so you see how good the Lord is to us all
the day long. We held a meeting last night;
Elder Smith and myself spoke. We leave
here at two o’clock for Washington.”
   He wrote William a letter, dated Washing-
ton, June 3d, saying: “We arrived in this
city last evening just as the sun was setting.
We stopped one night in Cincinnatti. In the
morning at eight o’clock held a Conference,
and left at ten. Those who were on board at
Nauvoo came through with us to Pittsburg.
They were very hard on us when we went on
board, but after conversing with them became
very friendly, and said if that was the religion
we believed they would bid us God-speed, for it
was what they believed.
   “ We stopped one night at Pittsburg. Elder
William Smith and myself preached that night.
Next morning took steamer up the Monongo-
hela seventy-two miles, then took coach to this
place—were twelve days and a half coming.
We put up at the National Hotel—the best
house in the city. This is where the Prophet
stopped when here. Elder Wite and myself
went one "mile east of the Capitol, to one Mr.
Linsly’s, one of the richest men in Washing-
ton. His wife is a member of our church, and
also one of his servants. The old gentleman
took us through his vineyard and garden—has
all kinds of grapes and fruit trees. He has be-
tween two and three millions of silk worms; it
was a great sight. He is a friend to us and
likes our doctrine. When we left they invited
us to .come and make our home with them while
in the city.  *  *  *	 Judge Douglas
came in last evening and had a long chat with
us; says he will do anything for us that we
wish—will give us an introduction to several of
the Congressmen to-day. Says there is no
prejudice towards us in this place of any ac-

[Column 3]
count; all there is, is among the ignorant class.
Elder Pratt left here one week ago, Elder
Hyde has been gone some time. We feel well
in mind. 	* *  *  We went to see Judge
Douglas this morning; he was not well, so we
returned. The only time to get an interview
with these men is in the evening. *  *  *
   “ Now, my dear son, be tender with your
mother, for she is a kind mother; be patient
and mild, and use soft words. Also be kind
to Helen and the little boys; be a father to
them, and keep them out of the wet, and take
good care of your own health. Tell Mary to
do the same. I esteem her as my own daugh-
ter. Do not go hungry, nor in want, for I in-
tend that my family shall have what they need
for their comfort while I live. As wo have
only one life here, so let us do good and serve
the Lord with pure hearts, and speak evil of no
man. I have no fears but you will take good
care of things. I want you and Helen to
write me; Tell her I shall write to her when
I get time; I think much about her. It is
now twelve o’clock, and we are going up to the
Capitol.”
   The following is from another letter, dated
June 4th. Father says: " We went this morn-
ing to see Judge Sample—he is from Alton,
Illinois. He appeared friendly while with
him. There was another Judge came in; said
he, “Joe Smith has sent out fifty of his smart-
est men to preach his —— doctrine, and to
electioneer for him.” Said he had heard some
of them preach, and they were smart men.
Judge Sample asked him if he had ever seen
Joseph Smith. He answered he never had.
“ Judge, he is a Smart man,” said Sample; “ I
have one of his ' views,’ which is very good.”
Said he, “ These men are some of his (Smith’s)
society." “ Ah, indeed, are they ? Will Smith
get any votes in Illinois ?” Said Judge Sample,
“ They go strong in the West for him,”  *  *
It is all politics in the East, Congress has spent
three days on it; but it seems all stuff to me.
I cannot take any pleasure in these things any
more than I can in the religion of the sects-
   “ I feel humble and to cleave unto the Lord.
I can bear testimony that He is good to me all
the day long. I suffer less from fear than 
have hitherto done- I feel different, and as
though I had authority given me from God to
speak as though I had been sent of God, and
not as the scribes. After all, I suffer some be-
fore these great men; still they know nothing
of God, all they know is about the politics of
this world, and what is that ? Why, it is like
the sectarian religion, part true and part un-
true ; but a little more not true than true.”
			To be Continued.


SOME statistics that appear in the Figaro
show the extraordinary cost of a war to a Lon-
don daily paper. Outsiders consider that a
business of this kind is profitable to the owners
of journals; but it is in fact, for the most part,
ruinously expensive; nor can the increase
which may be presumed to take place in the
circulation of any possibility make up for the
cost of telegraphic despatches from the seat of
war. "Just now," says the Fiyaro, "by the
best available route, the London dailies have
to pay seven shillings and two pence for their
telegrams. The lowest average of the daily
paper is £1,000 per week; and the Standard
account is probably much higher." The Egyp-
tian campaign, too, has been more than usually
costly to the papers; for the correspondents
have been prevented from telegraphing their
messages in "skeleton" or condensed form;
whence it is not to be wondered at that "a col-
umn of leaded messages in a daily paper aver-
ages from £200 to £250," nor that "had the
Egyptian war lasted a year, the total sum
spent altogether, extra from ordinary expenses,
would have amounted to upwards of 50,000"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 99


TO ARCHIE AND LOUISE.

And so you have been to the Temple;
	'Tis years since I've seen you, dear boy,
But your mother's kind letters inform me;
	I wish you great pleasure and joy.

I know 'tis a hackneyed expression,
	With which careless lips often part,
But now, I repeat it in earnest.
	From the depths of a truth-loving heart.

I remember a shy little urchin,
	Whose affections were mine, all secure;
And now—he's a man—and is married—
	How time passes by, to be sure!

Please tell the young lady, the loved one,
	To whom you now fondly lay claim
You once had a favorite auntie,
	Called, then, by a similar name.

And tell her that aunt now expresses
	A tender regard for the twain,
So lately made one, and she wishes
	Their "honeymoon" never may wane.

It will not, if both can but cherish
	Sweet confidence, patience and trust
And guarding against selfish feelings,
	Be gen'rous as truly as just.

Of course you have married "an angel"—
	I believe young men always do this—
And to her, you're the "noblest of heroes,"
	Else, where is perfection in bliss?

Aut consider, when in the near future
	Some little misdoing occurs,
And you find she is only a woman,
	'Twas your mistake, surely, not hers.

Don't censure her, then, for not being
	What she never professed to have been;
Be as anxious to keep her affections
	As once you were eager to win.

If you're young, I suppose she is younger;
	Both, at times, will be certain to err;
But while you yourself are imperfect,
	Expect not perfection in her.

Don't think it is childish to praise her,
	Let whispers and actions both tell,
That ever, in your estimation,
	Her graces are sure to excel.

As honest with her as with others;
	Give credit for all that she earns;
Encourage her efforts to please you,
	By compliments, and—by returns.

Should you differ at times, yet be humble,
	And ready at once to forgive;
Set your wife an untarnished example,
	And live as you wish her to live.

Louise, keep on thinking, forever,
	You've married the very best man;
You have chosen to stand as his helpmate,
	So help him as much as you can.

Don't speak of his faults, but his virtues
	Be first to acknowledge and praise;
Help love to grow surer and stronger,
	By thousands of sweet, happy ways.

I had not a thought of advising,
	When seated to hastily write,
And now, both my babies are sleepy—
	Dear niece and dear nephew, goodnight!

Salt Lake City, February, 1882.				LULA.


[Column 1]
AN HONEST WOMAN'S VIEWS.

OHIO, Nov. 10, 1882.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Your little paper coming to us is a source of
great pleasure, and, I think we can truly say,
of much profit; for anything that breaks down
prejudice and bigotry does good, and benefits
not only those immediately concerned, but the
good will, eventually, leaven the whole lump.
Years ago the word "Mormonism" expressed
to me all that was wicked, low and revolting,

[Column 2]
and I would, like Joan of Arc, have led the
troops to destroy the Mormon church. To-day
I, though not fully persuaded in my own mind
that you are really. as you claim, God's chosen
people, am willing to calmly investigate your
claims, and to openly defend you when bitter
words are spoken, by persons who know you
only through the reports of your enemies. All
Christendom takes the Bible as the standard
measure for churches; applying it to the Mor-
mon church, we find,
	1st, You believe in God, the Creator of all
things, and in Jesus, His Son, who died to re-
deem the world.
	2d, You preach faith, repentance, and obe-
dience to divine commands as laid down in
God's Holy Word.
	3d, You have gone into all the world to
preach to every creature.
	4th, You have come out from the world to
be a "peculiar people."
	So far, at least, according to the measure-
ment, you are right. Now, according to scrip-
ture, we must judge a tree by its fruits—"men
do not gather grapes of thorns, nor figs of this-
tles." What are your fruits? Do you show
forth the fruits of the Spirit? (Gal. v.) A few
unprejudiced persons throughout the country
are willing to have the question fairly tested,
and as nearly every daily "News" we pick up
has some reference to the Mormons (something,
generally, against them), the public mind is
turned toward them, and many persons, with a
sense of fair judgment, do not believe the mere
say so of your enemies, but are led to inquire
if these things are so.
	The readers of to-day's Cincinnatti Gazette
will find an extract from the Salt Lake Tri-
bune; many will roll it as a sweet morsel under
the tongue, as proof that the Mormons are a I-
told-you-so-terrible set of people, forgetting,
meanwhile, that such bad things, just such bad
things are being done here, right here within
the grand old State of Ohio, all the time.
	Perhaps it was true that "a Mormon gave
the children of his first wife away to unkind
strangers, and cared not for their welfare," but
was it because he was a Mormon?
	One of my neighbors (being a widower)
married a second wife. The daughter of his
first wife was an innocent, simple-hearted girl,
and an annoyance to the second wife, so went
from home to earn her living, notwithstanding
her father was wealthy. A young man took
advantage of the girl's simplicity, and she be-
came a mother. The stepmother gave her no
care, forced her to go to work in a few days
after her child was born; she died, and was
buried without any funeral or attention.
	The whole family are strict Catholics, but
no one charged the crime to the Catholic
church. They were wickedly selfish, unfeeling
persons, and would have been so if they had
not belonged to any church, or if they had
chanced to belong to any one of the orthodox
churches.
	I used to hear a burlesque sermon preached
from the text, "A mon ish a mon if he ish no
pigger ish my thume." 'Tis true, if a man is,
by nature, bad, Christianity, Catholicism, Mor-
monism, or any other ism, will not make him
worse. He is an injury to religion, but the re-
ligion cannot injure him (unless he becomes a
bigot); neither should a religion be condemned
because of his badness.
	Right is right, and wrongs no man. The
Tribune may, by constantly drawing public at-
tention to the Mormon church, lead many
thinking minds to inquire closely into its work-
ings, and if it can bear the examination, well
and good—"If this counsel or this work be of
men, it will come to naught; but if it be of
God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be
found even to fight against God." Acts v.
		With good wishes,
							EMILY SCOTT.


ART.

RESURRECTION.

	A beautiful painting, said to be the first on
a sacred subject ever taken from the ruins of
the buried cities, has been discovered at Pom-
peii. A correspondent describing the picture,
says: "On a dais sits a king holding a sceptre,
and robed in white. On each side of him sits
a councillor, and behind them six soldiers un-
der arms. The king is leaning over the front
of the dais toward a woman in a green robe,
who kneels before him with dishevelled hair
and outstretched hands. In the centre is a
three-legged table, like a butcher’s block, upon
which lies an infant, who is held in a recum-
bent position, in spite of his struggles, by a
woman wearing a turban. A soldier in armor,
and wearing a helmet with a long red plume,
holds the legs of the infant, and is about to
cleave it in two with his falchion. The agony
of the kneeling mother, the attention of the
listening king, and the triumph of the second
woman, who gloats over the division of the
child, are all manifest."


KISSES ON INTEREST.

	A father, talking to his careless daughter,
said: "I want to speak to you for your mother.
It may be that you have noticed a care-worn
look upon her face lately. Of course it has not
been brought there by any act of yours; still it
is your duty to chase it away. I want you to
get up to-morrow morning and get breakfast:
and when your mother comes and begins to ex-
press her surprise, go right up to her and kiss
her on the mouth. You can't imagine how it
will brighten her dear face. Besides, you owe
her a kiss or two. Away back, when you were
a little girl, she kissed you when no one else
was tempted by your fever-tainted breath and
swollen face. You were not as attractive then
as you are now. And through those years of
childish sunshine and shadows she was always
ready to cure, by the magic of a mother's kiss,
the little, dirty, chubby hands whenever they
were injured in those first skirmishes with the
world. And then the midnight kiss with
which she routed so many bad dreams, as she
leaned above your restless pillow, have all been
on interest these long, long years. Of course
she is not so pretty and kissable as you are,
but if you had done your share of the work
during the last ten years the contrast would not
be so marked. Her face has more wrinkles
than yours, far more; and yet if you were sick
that face would appear more beautiful than an
angel's as it hovered over you, watching every
opportunity to minister to your comfort, and
every one of those wrinkles would seem to be
bright wavelets of sunshine chasing each other
over the dear face. She will leave you one of
these days. These burdens, if not lifted from
her shoulders, will break her down. Those
rough, hard hands that have done so many
necessary things for you, will be crossed upon
her lifeless breast. Those neglected lips that
gave you your first baby kiss, will be forever
closed, and those sad, tired eyes will have been
opened in eternity, and then you'll appreciate
your mother; but it will be too late.—Centre-
ville (Md.) Record.


﻿IT is the men who possess no real respect for
woman, no thought for her highest mental or
moral developement that have always prated
most about the necessity of "protecting woman"
by hindering her development through legisla-
tive enactment. It is the men who look upon
women with lustful eyes that fear her indepen-
dent existence, either socially or politically,
lest she be no longer a dependent upon their
unholy demands.—H. M. Gougar.


100	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	DECEMBER 1,1882


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S RIGHT OF DOWER.

	The right of dower in Utah has been the
theme of much discussion in private and public,
in the press of the country and among the offi-
cials of the Territory. They acknowledge they
are sore on this subject, and think it an outrage
to the people that the right of dower should have
been abolished by the Legislature of Utah. Any
rational person who examines the ground care-
fully, without prejudice, would say at once that
the statutes of Utah as regards married women
and widows, is far in advance of the right of
dower as existing in most of the States of the
Union.
	In Utah woman holds her own property—her
husband cannot touch it; in most of the States
the husband can not only squander his wife's
income, but he can collect her earnings and
squander it at the gaming table or in the grog-
shop, just as he pleases or chooses. Not long
since, a lady related to the writer a little incident
illustrative of the very deplorable condition of
woman's right to her own earnings. The lady
was traveling on the train. She was a student
of human nature, and had noticed a very pale,
delicate-looking girl, sensitive and shrinking,
with a book in her hand; the lady was interested
in the appearance of the child, and opened a
conversation with her by inquiring where she
was going? She answered to the next village;
her father was with her, going on to collect her
week's earnings. He was a dissipated, brutal-
looking man. The child was deformed, had a
hunch on her poor back, and she looked weary
of life. She said her mother earned a little
money towards supporting the family by taking
in washing, but her father was cruel, and there
was no law to prevent his taking her hard earn-
ings from the factory and using them for his
own gratification. Is it any wonder that the in-
telligent women of the world want the ballot,
in order to get the laws remodeled, and better
the condition of the industrious working-classes,
that they may not be the prey of the indolent,
the dissipated or cruel?
	This is only one instance of the thousands
that occur every day, and yet women whose
"lives are cast in pleasant places," sit at their
ease, in blissful ignorance of the laws and gov-
erments, because, forsooth, a strong arm shelters
them from care and hardship, and so they ex-
claim, "We have all the rights we want."
	The right of dower is no more nor less than a
sort of vassalage, and a relic of the old common
law of England, and through this came the ap-
pelation relict, as applied to the wife after her
husband's decease; a word which, from its as-
sociation in that sense, is specially distasteful to
independent women. In the statutes of Utah
woman is a person; she can hold and convey
property, and she has the same right to do so
that her husband has. We give below the sec-
tions as laid down in the Revised Statutes of
Utah, and let every woman consider and judge

[Column 2]
for herself whether this is not preferable to the
right of dower, which strictly speaking means
one-third of her husband's estate, for she has
none of her own in law, and that very estate
may have come as a legacy to her from her
father or other relative, or it may be much of it
her own accumulated hard earnings. Here is
the enactment:
	(1020.) SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor
and Legislative Assembly of the Territory of
Utah: That all property owned by either spouse
before marriage, and that acquired after by gift,
bequest, devise or descent, with the rents, issues
and profits thereof, is the separate property of
that spouse by whom the same is so owned or
acquired, and separate property owned or ac-
quired as specified above, may be held, managed,
controlled, transferred and in any manner dis-
posed of by the spouse so owning or acquiring it
without any limitation or restriction by reason
of marriage.
	(1021.) SEC. 2. Either spouse may sue or be
sued, plead and be impleaded, or defend and be
defended at law.
	(1022.) SEC. 3. No right of dower shall exist
or be allowed in this Territory.—Compiled Laws,
page 342.
	In the laws governing the estates of decedents,
it is provided that:
	"Any married woman may dispose of all her
estate by will, and may alter or revoke the will
in like manner as a person under no disability
might do." (Ibid p. 271.)
	We have not time to enumerate all the points
involved, but, added to the law as it stands re-
corded, the women of Utah have the elective
franchise, and the privilege of voting at all elec-
tions in the Territory. If either of the late
Governors of the Territory had been as "liberal"
as the party title they have taken suggests,
women would have been ere this eligible to
offices of emolument and trust, and some might
for aught we know heve already been elected.
But even under the present conditions, the
women of Utah have more liberties and privi-
leges than those of other States and Territories.
In the "despised Mormon Church" women vote
on all questions the same as men do. This
scarcely accords with the current idea outside,
that Mormon women are oppressed and kept in
bondage.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A RELIEF Society was organized in Oakley,
Cassia Co., Idaho, in September, by Apostles F.
M. Lyman, J. H. Smith and H. J. Grant.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society, Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary Associations will be held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Fri-
day and Saturday, December 15 and 16.

	WE have received, per A. C., a summary, of
the doings of a party in honor of Mrs. Wilmirth
East's birthday, held at Smithville, Arizona
The affair was under the auspices of the Young
Ladies' Association. Mrs. East was for many
years an active worker in the benevolent socie-
ties and for woman's higher advancement in
this city. Almost four years ago she removed
to Arizona, and presides over the Relief Societies
of Eastern Arizona Stake of Zion.

	THANKSGIVING Day is past, and all the gay
festivities of that happy occasion are over. We
still remember the delights of the elegant din-
ners, served with such hospitality and freedom to
all. There is no people who can appreciate more
fully blessings from heaven than the Latter-day
Saints. They have received miraculous mani-
festations of God's goodness in marvelous ways,
and have ever acknowledged his divine interpo-

[Column 2]
sition in their behalf. Therefore do they praise
Him, and render gratitude and thanksgiving,
and while they are mindful of his mercy ex-
tended to all his creatures, and rejoice in his
munificent blessings, they do not forget that
"obedience is better than sacrifice."

	A SOCIETY of ladies, called the "Unity Club,"
has been organized recently in this city, to work
and to give entertainments for benevolent pur-
poses, notably the Deseret Hospital, two meet-
ings have already been held, and it is expected
an entertainment will be given by the society
sometime between Christmas and New Years,
probably Dec. 29, in the 12th Ward Hall. Presi-
dent of the Society, Mrs. Margaret G. Clawson;
Vice President, Clara J. Young; Secretary,
Emma Riggs; Treasurer, Annie W. Cannon.
There are several committees to arrange for en-
tertainments. The initiatory fee is one dollar
each, and the Club is limited to fifty members.

	ON Thanksgiving Day, in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall, Mr. Evan Stephens' classes in
singing were on exhibition, going through their
exercises in an interesting manner, in presence
of the whole assembly. Bro. Stephens gave a
synopsis of his methods of imparting instruction.
The singing by the children was effectively ren-
dered. The writing was a new feature of a mu-
sical exhibition. There has been no pains spared
on the part of the teacher to make the little ones
proficient in this most pleasing and attractive
science. It is a rare opportunity for the children
of Zion to receive musical training, and the cul-
tivation of the voice in childhood is a desirable
attainment. Bro. Stephens deserves patronage
and aid in the arduous labor he has undertaken.

	ANOTHER new book, deserving marked notice,
is a small pamphlet by Elder John Jaques,
"The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints—Its Priesthood, Organization, Doctrines,
Ordinances and History." This is given in the
most concise manner, yet clear and forcible, with
references to larger works. The last two pages
contain the testimony of the three witnesses to
the Book of Mormon. It covers more ground
than any other small work, and will be very
useful to give strangers correct ideas of our prin-
ciples and history in a few words. As a sort of
tract for distribution outside the Church, it will
do very great good in spreading the truth. Price
10 cents. For sale at "Deseret News'" Office.

	ON Tuesday morning Hon. George Q. Cannon
left this city for Washington. Hon. John T.
Caine, the Delegate for Utah, also started for
the Capitol, accompanied by F. S. Richards, of
the constitutional delegation. At Ogden they
were joined by D. H. Peery and wife. W. W.
Riter, James Sharp and W. D. Johnson will go
after the busy holidays are over. What Con-
gress will do for Utah, in the way of justice "no
man knoweth." Utah has rights that demand
recognition, though Congress has been exceed-
ingly slow in admitting any claims; it is a a long
road that never turns, and who can tell but In-
advertently something may be done to benefit
this flourishing, enterprising Territory.

	PRIMARY Speaker, No. 1, so long promised to
the smaller children, is now ready. It is particu-
larly well adapted for the use of the little folks
from four to ten years old. The selections are
all of the very best and choicest composition
both poetry and prose, many by home writers.
No pains has been spared by the editor and com-
piler in preparing and arranging this little work
for the press; the type is very large and clear,
and the book should meet with ready sale.
"Sister Eliza" has labored arduously and dili-
gently, early and late, untiringly, in preparing
books for the children, but it has been a labor of
love. This is the fifth of the collection of her


works for the Primary Associations. First the
Primary Hymn Book, then the Music Book,
Bible Questions and Answers, Primary Speaker
No. 2, and now the volume here noticed, No. 1.
The books are for sale at the "Deseret News"
Office and WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Price twenty-
five cents.

	MRS E. L. Saxon, whose visit to Utah we
mentioned in our last number, delivered her lec-
ture on "Women in all Reforms, Past, Present
and Future," on Monday evening, Nov. 27, in
the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms, in this city, to
an interested and appreciative audience. Mrs.
Saxon is a clear and rapid speaker, has a great
flow of language, and throws her whole soul into
her labor. She seems wholly forgetful of self,
but eulogizes her fellow-workers who have done
so much to elevate woman, and through her lift
up mankind. She believes woman's greatest
power for good lies in the ballot, because through
that she becomes a positive factor in law and
law-making, and consequently in education, as
well as in society. The lady is fully awakened
to the sense of the fact that the government
needs props, and believes that the best purifier
and renovator for the present state of things
will be women at the polls. Equality before the
law is what these noble workers are asking at
the hands of government; they have labored ar-
duously, struggled against prejudice, tradition
and various obstacles, but the future brightens
somewhat, for prejudice is giving way and ad-
vancement for the sex is hastening on. Mrs.
Saxon went to Provo on Thursday, with Mrs.
Zina D. Young, to make further observations.
Besides looking over the city, the two ladies at-
tended the Conference of the Primary Associa-
tions and Y. L. M. I. A. of Utah Stake. Mrs.
Saxon has a national reputation. She has trav-
eled and spoken in public in the various States
from Lousiana to Maine. She has had many
flattering newspaper notices from leading jour-
nals. Senator Blair, of New Hampshire, said,
"I consider Mrs. Saxon one of the most talented
ladies in the United States, and among the most
effective speakers I have ever heard."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 101


EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In my article entitled "Personal Experience
which appeared In your issue of Nov. 15, the
following typographical errors occur, which
please correct: Instead of "political polygamists,"
it should read "practical polygamists;" and In-
stead of "how the blessings of the Lord rested
upon the world," "how the blessings of the
Lord rested upon the work."
	Respectfully yours,
						L. G. RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
REFLECTIONS.

	There is a great field for reflection in these pe-
culiar times, and as I sit and meditate upon the
past, and the present, and look forward into the
future, and wonder what will come next, my
mind turns to that good old book, the Bible, that
tells us of these events that will come to pass,
prophesied of many hundred years ago. Are
they coming? Yes, verily, they are, just as the
prophets said they would. How do we look at
all these signs and wonders? Are they not a
great testimony to us that we are the true
Church? I think so. 
	Now, my mind wanders back to my childhood
in that dear old home in the far East, where
everything is beauty. Pen cannot describe nor
picture the grandeur of the scenery of that far-
off home—the orchard, the brook, and the well,
with its heavy bucket and sweep pole, that
raised the cool nectar in the moss-covered bucket
as it rose from the well; the nice, pleasant arbor,

[Column 2]
with the grape vines and honeysuckle twining
over it, the swent-scented lilac and the snow-
ball wafting their sweet perfume, as I sat in the
cool shade on the charming rustic seat, reading
and chatting with fond associates; and the
quaint old church, with its pews with cushioned
seats, its tall steeple with clock and bell, its
stained window glass, long aisles and high pulpit,
where the pastor read his sermon to the congre-
gation each Sabbath; not forgetting the low,
brick schoolhouse, where I first learned to pro-
nounce the a b abs, and progress along to read,
write and spell, and other lessons that are never
forgotten. I muse, what caused me to wander
from those scenes of beauty I loved so well? It
was the love of truth, the desire to be a follower
of Christ, and to obey the Gospel sound, which
was dear to me. The desire to rear my littie
ones away from the influence of the wicked and
of priestcraft in the valleys of the mountains,
amongst the servants of God. My home here
is far lovelier to me, although my thoughts will
wander and travel very rapidly at times. Do I
pine for those scenes? No; my home is with
the Saints of God, no matter where they are. 
	I love my country and I love liberty, that my
forefathers fought to gain. Do we have it? It
seems not. This boasted land of liberty, where
we who were born in America, in a free country,
are not allowed the freedom of the ballot! Our
enemies have wrung it from us. What for? Be-
cause we dare to worship the true and living
God, profess to be Latter-day Saints, obey the
commandments of our Heavenly Father, claim
that the Gospel is again restored to the earth,
believe in a prophet of the last days, and that
the light of truth is never more to be taken
from the earth. I rejoice to be numbered
amongst them, although my friends think I am
deluded and gone astray; but I know in whom
we trust, and at last we will gain the victory,
and then we will have freedom. Whose turn
will it be then? Ah, those who wish to crush us
now, will see when it is too late. 
	A word for this far off corner of Utah. The
health of the people is good, there being but lit-
tle sickness. Our elder brother, Joel H. John-
son, departed this life the 24th of September, at
the advanced age of eighty years, six months
and one day. He was a firm Latter-day Saint,
and has passed through many trials and perse-
cutions. He has fought the good fight, and gone
hence to rest with the just. He leaves a large
family to mourn his loss. 
	Our little Relief Society and Primary are in
a prosperous condition, and all have a desire to
help build up the kingdom of God in these last
days. The last number of the EXPONENT is be-
fore me. In glancing over its columns, many
reflections flit through my mind of former scenes
in the early history of the church, and what we
may have to pass through ere long. We have
no need to fear, our Heavenly Father hath prom-
ised; in Him we trust.
	Johnson, Utah.		JANE C. JOHNSON.


[Column 1]
PRAYER.

MY DEAR SISTERS:
	My heart is filled with gratitude and praise to
my Heavenly Father, for the great blessings He
has vouchsafed to me, and feeling a desire to
write a few lines, I pray that His Spirit may be
given, and dictate to my mind what I shall pen
at this time. There are so many subjects to
write upon, it is difficult to choose one. How-
ever, my mind has been much exercised on
the subject of prayer, and I will, by the aid of
that Spirit which leads and guides into all truth,
offer a few ideas on that subject.
	The words of the poet come forcibly to my
mind, "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire," etc.,

[Column 2]
and what would be the use of praying for what
we do not desire? The promise is our desires
shall be granted if we ask in faith, believing we
shall receive the things for which we ask. How
thankful and humble should we be that we have
a Father in Heaven, who is willing to hear and
answer our prayers, when offered in sincerity
and purity, in the name of Jesus, for He is the
Mediator between the Father and man, and
maketh intercession for us at the Throne of
Grace.
	I often think we should not be discouraged if
our prayers are not answered immediately—
sometimes this is the case, and for a wise pur-
pose. I think one reason is, the Lord desires to
see if we are in earnest; or we may have prayed
for what we ought not, and therefore have
"asked amiss" Again, there are certain times
when we should pray. We are told to pray to
our Father in secret, and the promise is, He will
reward us openly. Again, we are to pray with
our families. And now, dear sisters, I would
urge, if you have not yet begun, and your hus-
bands are not there to attend to this duty, gather
your family together; teach them it is as neces-
sary to ask the Lord for spiritual as bodily food;
teach them what is meant by spiritual food.
Also, inspire their young and tender minds with
faith to believe in receiving the things they ask.
O ye mothers of Israel! take time to instruct
your children in the principles of the Gospel.
What a responsible position we hold! and what
account will we give, if we neglect to instil into
their minds those truths which the Lord has
placed within our reach, and for the use or neg-
lect of the same we are held accountable. Our
children look up to us for counsel, and we should
live so they will see by our every act, in our
every day life, that we are sincere, and that we
practice the principles we desire to teach to
them.
	By restraining prayer we cease to fight, and
there are many opposing spirits abroad in the
earth; also we have our own weaknesses to
overcome. We are required to put on the whole
armor, including the Shield of Faith, etc., using
all dilligence in seeking for the Spirit of God,
which, if cherished in our hearts will grow and
increase in us, and we will become better quali-
fied, and have more strength, to overcome the
many obstacles that lie in our path onward and
upward. We should lay aside everything that
easily besets us, be diligent in business, fervent
in spirit, serving the Lord. There is something
for each to do, many duties to perform, and rais-
ing a large family is not the least; for when we
consider who gave those spirits, and what they
were sent for, it should incite us to train them
up in the fear of the Lord, that when they are
old they may not depart from it. Blessed, in
the morning of the resurrection, will that parent
be, and her children will rise up and call her
blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her.
That this may be the happy lot of all the faith-
ful mothers in Zion, is the prayer of your sister
in the Gospel,					E. R. C.
	Lehi, Oct. 18, 1882.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

RICHMOND, NOV. 8, 1882.

DEAR EDITOR:
	As we always desire to aid, in our humble way
the work of the Lord, we feel to mingle our
voices with the valuable efforts of your corres-
pondents, who so ably strive for the truth.
Every number of the EXPONENT seems to out-
vie the preceding one in interest and worth;
truly our sisters are becoming noble defenders of
righteousness and virtue; and we can say, "God
moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to per-
form." Truth is mighty and it will prevail, and


woman is nobly performing her part in the great
arena.
	On June 24th I sent a communication on our
annual meeting of the Relief Society of June 4;
as it has not appeared in your columns I presume
it has been mislaid; we may be deemed negli-
gent, I thought a few lines would not be amiss.
Our meeting was held as usual, the Bishop and
his Counselors being present; had an excellent
time, and good instructions were given us. Our
reports were good; the Relief Society house not
being completed, they were not as concise as we
should have liked. Considering all things, we
are doing well; there not many poor among us,
and the sisters are ever ready and willing to aid
and assist, with few exceptions.
	Yesterday was election day; we had a pleasant
time, the weather being fine and the brass band
making times lively, while peace and cheerful-
ness reigned within our homes. We felt that
our Father in Heaven was at the helm, guiding
the good ship Zion to her noble destiny.
					A. J. MERRIL, Pres't.
					BETSY BROWER, Sec'y, R. S.


102	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Sister Jane P. Sharp, wife of Bishop John Sharp, de-
parted this life the 25th of August, 1882. She was born
June 26, 1819, in Blackmannanshire, Scotland. Emi-
grated to Utah In 1850. She was the mother of twelve
children, and grandmother of twenty-eight children.
She joined the Church in Scotland, her native country,
May 24, 1847.
	Mrs. Sharp was chosen First Counselor to Mrs. Mar-
garet Smoot at the first organization of the Relief So-
ciety of the Twentieth Ward. When Sister Smoot
moved to Provo, Mrs. Sharp was acting President for a
number of years, but on account of her poor health, she
resigned her office. She was a most devoted wife and a
kind, loving mother, and died in full faith of the Gospel
and of a glorious resurrection.
						JANE MILLER, President,
R. S. 20th Ward.			MARGARET SHARP, Sec'y.

	It is with feelings of sincere regret and affectionate
remembrance that we chronicle tha death of our es-
teemed friend and sister, Jane James, who passed away
from earth quietly and peacefully, surrounded by her
family and kind friends, on the afternoon of September
10, 1882, in the fifty-first year of her age, to join the
heavenly hosts and the loved ones gone before.
	Deceased was a native of Shrewsbury, Shropshire,
England; joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints when quite young, and emigrated to Utah
with her husband In 1853. They first settled in Draper
ville, but shortly after moved to Paradise, Cache Co.
where her husband, David James, held the office of
Bishop for several years. They were among the first
settlers of that place, and she patiently endured the
trials and hardships incident to the settling of a new
country, ever thanking her Heavenly Father that she
had the privilege of hearing and receiving the Gospel
and gathering with the Saints. At the organization of
the Relief Society of Paradise she was chosen President,
which position she held until she removed with her fam-
ily to Salt Lake City in 1873, where they located in the
Seventh Ward. When the Primary Association was or-
ganized in that ward, she was called to fill the position
of First Counselor, which office she held until her death
Sister James was a faithful wife, a true and loving
mother, a sincere and faithful friend, and a pure, hum-
ble, practical Latter-day Saint. Through her whole life
she was governed entirely by a conscientious regard or
principle and a love for all that ia pure, elevating and
ennobling. She leaves a husband, four children, one
grandchild and a host of relatives and friends to mourn
her loss.—COM.

	Died, at Richmond, Oct. 23,1882, of pneumonia, Ro-
sina Shepard Fyers, after eleven days' Illness, which she
bore with great fortitude; her faith in the Gospel of
Christ was firm to the end. Sister Fyers was President
of the teachers quorum in the Relief Society. Her ener-
gies were ever devoted to the good of the poor, filling
her office with honor as a Saint of God; she will come
forth at the resurrection of the just. She was born


January 21, 1829, in Denmark, Fur's Co., State of New
York; was the daughter of Isaac and Sarah Shepard, and
was baptized into the Church when quite a child.

RESOLUTIONS.

	Be it resolved, That we, as members of the Relief So-
ciety, deeply monrn the loss of our beloved sister and
co-laborer, and we sincerely sympathise with her hus-
band, children and relatives in their loss, intermingled
with the knowledge that it is her true gain, and rejoice
to know that if we follow in her footsteps, and are
faithful, we shall meet again where sorrow cannot
come.

She's gone, and our hearts feel the smart,
	Our friend from our bosom is torn;
The sweet ties that bound us are broke,
	And nature compels us to mourn.
But oh, transporting delight!
	To think of our meeting again,
When, clothed in our robes clean and white,
	We'll meet thee, Rosina, again.
						FRANCIS TRAVELLER,
						MARY ALLSOP,
						BETSY BROWER,
									Committee.


[Column 1]
﻿R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

Y. L. M. I. A. PROVO.

	Minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Utah
Stake held in the Provo Meeting House, Aug.
31 1882. President Emily Cluff presiding.
Present on the stand Pres. Elmina S. Taylor,of
S. L. Pres. Emily G. Cluff, Counselors Zina
Y. Williams and Jennie Tanner, Sister M. T.
Smoot. After the opening exercises, the re-
ports of 13 societies were given which were
very satisfactory and showed marked improve-
ment. Counselor Zina Yi Williams said, she
did not see a face before her, but what she
knew, and through these associations had
learned to love. Now is one of the most trying
times we have ever had, and we know it is nec-
essary to attend to our duties. We hear
through all the counties, the same cry, that
not enough of the members come to meeting,
but we see those that do, have intelligent ideas
and desire io gain more experience by associat-
ing with others that do go. There is not a soul
in God's kingdom but what has something to
do, and we can accomplish more than any
other nation on earth, for we are, or ought to
be, one and all working for the same object.
	President E. S. Taylor said, she felt acquain-
ted with most of the faces, and felt proud of
Utah Stake for it was the only county in which
they had visited every place. We do not want
to have too much education of the world, but
to come to these meetings and learn of God.
Our old veterans are passing away and we want
these young ladies to take their place. Was
pleased to hear some of them say they had good
testimony meetings, but would not frighten the
young ladies away on account of their speak-
ing, but tell them they need not speak till they
feel like they want too. She spoke on the
Hospital business, and prayed for the Spirit of
God to rest down upon us.
	Sister M. T. Smoot was pleased and over-
joyed with meeting with them, and exhorted
her sisters to continue on in well doing, and if
she could be allowed the expression, that if all
hell was arrayed against us, if we trusted in
the Lord, they could not harm us; and if we
did right all our clouds would have a broad
silver lining. Pres. Emily G. Cluff said she
felt sorry to see so few present, and that they
were nearly all officers with us, and if we can-
not have them any other way, we will have to
make them all officers. Then gave the remain-
der of the meeting open to testimonies. Meet-
ing adjourned till 2 p. m., singing "We thank
thee O, God for a Prophet. Benediction by
Zina Y. Williams.
	Meeting held per adjournment singing "We
thank thee O, God for Prophet," 'prayer by

[Column 2]
Elder Robert Till, singing "I'll serve the Lord"
Miss Annie Smart recited a peice "Utah what
it was, what it is and what it shall be."
	Pres. E. S. Taylor said,she was pleased to meet
with them again in Conference, for it was so
pleasing to see the young sisters going on and
helping in the work of God. Nothing can be
more sad than to see our daughters taking the
downward course. but our joy cannot be told
when we see them going on and improving
in this way, and these young ladies must be on
the improvement so as to make them better
wives and better mothers in Israel, for these
daughters raise our future prophets, seers, rev-
elators and missionaries; girls, keep good com-
pany, have nothing to do with our enemies, if
they are sick administer to them, if they are
hungry feed them, but that is all. They pity
the down-trodden women of Israel. Now in
my heart I feel to pity them, be gentlemen and
ladies in every respect, but do not associate with
them. Look around you and see those who
have married [outside of the Church, see how
their happiness fades, go before the Lord my
dear sisters, and ask Him to find you the right
mate. There are some of us who associate with
folks who appear to be our warmest friends,
but when they leave this pure mountain air
and go back where there is so much said
against us, they turn away from us and help
misrepresent us; therefore my sisters be inde-
pendent, and if you think you cannot find good
company go by yourself and always keep in
remembrance that improvement is our motto
and perfection our aim.
	Encouraging remarks were then made by
Sisters Zina Y. Williams and Prest. Emily G.
Cluff, who urged the sisters to treasure up the
words which had been spoken, for it would
prove an untold blessing to them. Urged
them to keep in mind the Hospital and silk
business. Meeting adjourned for six months.
Singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing." Benediction by Elder J. T. Arrowsmith.
				EMILY G. CLUFF, Prest.
				ANNIE L. JONES, Sec'y.
	Provo City, October 9.


SUGGESTIONS ABOUT TRAINING
BOYS.

	In the nature of almost every boy there are
four powerful infllittlees at work, which tend
if they are wisely used, to strengthen or weaken
his moral character, viz
	1. His restlessness, or desire to be doing
something, which is the cause of many of his
troubles (and of his mother's also).	
	2. His great craving for companionship, and
what he calls "fun," which seems to be a nec-
essity to most, healthy boys.
	3. His fear of ridicule, which in many boys
is so great that they can be induced to sin
against conscience and stomach in order to es-
cape it.
	4. The desire to be or to appear manly.
	The boy carries these four influences with
him always, and it is a contest between us and
Satan as to who shall control them, and the
boy’s fate depends much on the issue of this
contest. He is worth all the bravest efforts
that can be made in his behalf. He is worth
more than all the gold or honor or station you
can win.
	If you love him more than you love these
things, and even than you love yourself or
your own ease and comfort, you can, with the
Lord’s help, hold him safe against " the world,
the flesh, and the devil." But you must be
"wise as serpents." Too much restraint will
chafe and embitter. Too little is sure to end
in ruin.
	You must make your child happy, for it is
true " that discontent is the cause of the most
of the wickedness in the world." You must
let him see that you eagerly desire his happi-


[Column 1]
﻿ness, and that he has your warmest sympathies
in his efforts to find it. If he sees that you
put off his gratification to suit your own con-
venience, he will suspect your lack of sympa-
thy. If he sees you break your promise to
him, or grant him an indulgence that you have
said was improper for him, he will doubt your
sincerity. If he sees you guilty of "make-
believes," or false pretensions, or shams of any
sort whatever, you have lost his confidence
and respect, and may expect soon to lose his
affection and then to lose your hold of him.
	Children are very close and shrewd observ-
ers of human nature, and not easily deceived.
Your only hope is in dealing honestly and sin-
cerely with them. But how shall you make
them happy? I have asked this question a
thousand times in school, and my answer is, by
keeping them occupied in pleasurable employ-
ments.
	Boys love to play, and that is your great last
resort. But they also love to work, at things
they can do specially well. Then do you see
to it, when you give them work to do, or a les-
son to learn, that you show them how to do it
really well, and then accept it as well done. A
school becomes restive and unhappy whenever
there is not enough work to keep the pupils
busy, or when they do not know how to do it.
Let all your instructions and directions be
clearly stated, and do not cut out too much
work, but insist upon having every task that
has been assigned fully and thoroughly exe-
cuted.
	You must make them your companions. The
boy who is in love with his mother and sister,
and looks upon his father as the very king of
men, cannot easily be won away from them.
But he must be met half way, for if he feels
that he is only tolerated as a nuisance, and finds
himself charged with all the little offenses that
have been committed, he will be powerfully
tempted to meet your expectations and make
your bill of indictment a true one. Make him
feel, at home, he is more than the prince of the
blood, that his wants and wishes are always
worth considering, and that even his opinion
and good-will are of some worth. Knit him
to you by ties of a kind that Satan cannot
knit. You have possession of the citadel;
why should you be driven from it? It can
only be by your own fault. Loyalty to you is
deep-rooted in your boy's nature, and if you
are wise and alert he cannot be seduced from
his allegiance to you.
	Do you know what is the most common
weakness displayed by boys? It is a fear that
their manhood is questioned, accompanied by
an overwhelming desire to vindicate it. To be
ridiculed as a "muff," or sneered at as a "baby,"
or a "mamma boy," is often enough to make
him try tobacco, although he knows it will
make him deathly sick; or fight, or swear, or
other things equally repugnant to his nature,
and all because he feels that something of the
sort is necessary to establish his manliness.
Some people laugh at such things, and some,
rather more severe in their judgments, say that
such nousense shonld be thrashed out of them.
The fact is, the most spirited boys, under such
trials, deserve the profoundest sympathy; for in
most cases, they have not been properly trained
and fortified to resist such powerful tempta-
tions. I have known boys, when subjected to
them, to observe a calm and cool indifference
to sneer and laugh, but it was because they
were conscious of strength or skill which soon
made them recognized as leaders.
	Last, and most important of all, you must
give your boy sound religious instruction, for
nothing else is so essential to his safety and
usefulness amid the temptations and struggles
of life. But there is a wise and unwise way of
imparting it. Do not let Sunday be a dread
day to him, but make it bright by reason of

[Column 2]
your special and most loving attention to your
children, and your sweetest little ways of en-
tertaining them. It will be hard on you, but
God will love you for it, and your children will
remember it gratefully and lovingly, long years
after you rave crossed the river.—PROF. H. L.
HOOVER.						Ex.—


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 103


A STRANGER'S VIEWS.

	The following is from a private letter to a
friend in the East, from an intelligent mercan-
tile gentleman who has traveled much in the
Territories, and knows little about Mormons,
except as he reads of them in the newspapers.
We are indebted to the courtesy of a leading
man in one of the most popular States for the
paragraph we publish here. It is good to
know there are some high-minded, honorable
men who do not believe all the reports made of
Utah and its people.
	"In all my travels I have never seen any-
thing to compare with the Mormon towns.
Their homes are neat and clean, their houses
well built and attractive, their streets are broad
and full of trees, their people respectful, sober
and industrious. Wherever I find a Mormon
town, there do I see evidences of prosperity
and refinement far in advance of anything
west of the Missouri river. In fact, one would
have to go east of the Mississippi a long dis-
tance to find as beautiful towns or as lovely
homes as in Brigham City and Logan. At the
latter place yesterday I went all through, and
on top of the new Temple, that is almost com-
pleted at a cost of six hundred thousand dol-
ars. Built upon a hill, within the shadow of
snow-capped mountains, it stands a monument
of patient industry and beautiful workman-
ship. It is all made of native rock and lum-
ber.
	Nov. 12,1882."


ORATION OF SAMUEL PEABODY, Esq.,
ON THE QUESTION OF THE
HOUR.

	Neibours and Fellow citizens—You see be-
fore you to-day a heart-broken man. Our
wives are on the revolt. I've been afeared for
a long time we were gwine tu have a revuli-
tion, and now I'm sure ont. They're mighty
trung up too,and the worst is they're united wi'
one another, and we are left out. They've had
a big meeting, and good gracious! how they
did talk, in the absence of wife Patience!—
I feel brave. They will have it that ther
great grandmother, Eve, ruled the roost, an'
they're not gwine tu give up ther nat'ral
rights.
	The critters ses that fur a long time they've
been a nappin' tu give ther pardners time tu
shew themselves, but now ther wide awake, and
is a gwine to put us in our proper place. O ye
men of Amerike, where du you think that is?
Why, tu hum, tendin' babies and doin' the
smawl chores of the house. Why? Because
ther time 's tu precious.
	Yo should see our Patience! she's just had
a coat made with tew tails all buttoned down
afore—I mean the coat and not the tails—an'
a hat with a rooster's feather in it.
	Patience ses ther gwine to chuse a woman
fur the next President, and turn th' Congress
men into Congress wimmen, all but Senator
Vest and tew or three more. They're a gwine
tu give them the priveledge of discussing the
question of the hour. That Mormon problem
is so knotty, and its gettin' knottier all the
time. They're tired of the etarnal fuss about
it, fur they've kept that tempest in a teapot fur
forty years, and nothin' cum of it yet.
	They ses it's hereditary in the wimmin folks

[Column 2]
tu untie knots. Ther grandmother Eve untied
the fust, and they've kept in the same string
ever since, Ther a gwine tu enact a new law,
with no amendment tu it, and hav it stuck up
in all the churches, chapels, and in both houses
of Congress, that, if ennybody cotches some
body els a mindin' another body's business,
ther tu be tuk up an' tried afore them five
commishoners for Polygamy.
	You know, my constituents, feller citizens,
that we've done all we could tu keep up our
dignity, and yet pleas the wimmin folks, but
we can't do it.
	We can't write a letter to our old sweet-
hearts for fear they should find it, ther so curis.
We're obliged tu be hum by nine o'clock nights,
tu tend baby, while they go tu wimmen's meet-
ins to concoct measures to disturb our peace
and take away our liberty.
	They spend five-fourths of ther time shop-
ping, while we can't take time tu buy a cigar,
or we're reminded of our extravagance. Ther
so absent-minded, thinkin' up the affairs of the
nation, that insted of the bosoms of our shirts
bein' starched, it is sometimes another part,
and, as a gineral thing, about ten-ninths of the
buttons are off. They ses, "My dear, when I
married you." Now that rather looks tu me
like the cart afore the horse.
	We never can pleas 'em, we either walk tu
straight or tu crooked. They won't allow us
even one frill on our shirts, while they can frill
and bow all down the back and up afore.
	They must have a little sling nights to
brighten up ther idees, but won't give us none,
because it makes us stupid.
	They won't allow no one tu giv an interpre-
tation of the question of the hour but them-
selves, 'cause they say they understan mathe-
matics. They've limited us tu one cigar a day
an' no pipe, for fear of unstringing our narves.
When we du ennything they think wrong, they
sum us up in quick time without judge or jnry.
	Now, what I'm a gwine to say, shall we stan'
it? (Say, look aut thar and see if Patince is a
comin'. No!) Now Richard's himself again.
Shades of our fathers of '76, shall we stan' it?
I ses no, no; tu battle! tu battle! ye braves!
Don't give in a pint. O lor! here comes Pa-
tience. I must git.


PATIENCE PEABODY'S ANSWER.

	I'd been sufferin' with nuralgi nigh on tu
haf an hour, when ses I tu myself, ses I, Pa-
tience, you'd better be lookin'after Sam, or
he'll be inter mischief. So down I cum, and
hid behind the door, and heerd all his yarn.
	I listened with the patience of a Jobess and
the wisdom of a Shebe. I thought and thought
till I was tired o' thoughting, and now that
Sam's gone, I'll be obleeged to make this mat-
ter straight. I couldn't help laffin' to see how
scairt he was for fear I'd cum. Well, he seems
tu know pretty well our feelin' ginerally, but
he's rather mistaken on a few pints. The fact
is, the men folks seem to know mighty little
about our rights, nor ther own either, for the
matter of that.
	Our Mother Eve was a lady, and Father
Adam knowed his place, and follered her; and
I stick tu it, that it's nothin' but right fur his
great-grandsons to walk in the same lane, and
foller tu. The critter thought we was nappin'
Catch a woman asleep when she's taking items
No, sur, we were wide awake and have been so
disgusted with the critters that we're a gwine
to take our proper place, and let 'em help it if
they can. Sam ses we're a a gwine to chuse a
lady for our next President, and quite right,
tu. For the last forty years it has been one
long crow about them plaguey Mormons. Now,
what I want tu know is this- if they like tu do


as Solomon did, and hav a thousand wives,
whose business is it as long as they don't come
David on it, and run away with somebody
elses. I tell you what it is, I'll bet you a pun-
kin pie thar's more Davids in Congress than
Solomon's; and as fur them knots they're try-
in' tu untie, ther kind o' Indian rubber like—
abaut the time they think ther untied, they
roll right up agin, and the untiers become con-
flumxed.
	Sam was quite right about the new law we're
a gwine to enact, only he furgot one pint, that
is, not only them that's cotcht minding some-
bod'ys business, but them that believes its right
to think about ennybody's business, or look at
that businesses wife, shall be tuk up and tried
fur polygamy; an' if that don't make some of
them Congressmen squeal, then my name aint
Patience.
	As fur Senator Vest, an' a few others, we
have sum respect fur them, because they've
enuff sens left tu tell what belongs to the Con-
stitution and that's considerable mor'n I can
say fur the rest. 
	As furthat big bug that Edmunds has hatcht
out, it looks mighty big, as if it was a gwine
to swaller all them little polly-bugs up; but
these polly-bugs are curis critturs, and a good
deal like Mr. Paddy's flee—you cotch 'em, an'
lift your finger tu look 'em right square in the
face, and goodness gracious! they aint thar. 
	We're gwine to chuse five committees, of
three wimmen in each, to wait on the five com-,
missioners every morning before breakfast,
each woman to deliver a speech an hour long
on her own constitutional rights. I'll venture
a saucer of apple butter that, in three days,
these just men will deliver Edmunds and his
bug tu the keeping of Hamlet's gost. Wim-
men are growin' higher and bigger in this
world, but they don't intend to go so high that
they'll cum down cursquash like Parson New-
man.
	Sam made a leetle mistake about frills; we
are perfectly willin' fur 'em tu wear frills on
ther pantaloons, but we don't want 'em to have
a frill a quarter of a yard wide on the bosom
of ther shirts, or dickeys; it looks tu much
like a rooster's comb, and of all things we des-
pise is roosters—they are so etarnally a crow-
in'.
	We don't care one cent about looking in ther
letters, but we are so scairt they'll get into
trouble—the men are so unkimmen soft. 
	The reason we fix on nine o'clock fur 'em tu
cum in nights, is becaus they allers stay out all
night, and cum hum with the crows in the
morning. About haf a year agone thar was tu
be a big meeting, so we said we'd give till
'leven that night. But did they come? No,
sir; not till the roosters was callin' up the little
chickens. We ran to the door with open arms,
but oh, my fellur citizens! what a fall was
there? We brung 'em in, roosted ther little
feet, and put 'em in ther little bed, when we
drew ourselves up as tall as our manhood, and
was determined we'd stand it no longer.
	As fur them shirts bein' starcht wrong, you
remember what the scriptur ses about lookin'
inter a dark glass, and so forth; that's just
what it means—the critturs look through that
dark glass what's got that cool beverage in, and
gits ther shirts wrong side up.
	Well, gintlemen, I guess I've sed as much as
you can digest tu-day, so I'll go hum, put my
feet in hot water, and take a dose of asoefetida
and penerial, to compose my narves.
						AUNT JERUSHA.


104	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMEN AND MEDICAL SOCIETIES.

	EDITOR JOURNAL:—For several years, while
women have been so persistently knocking at
the door of the "Massachusetts Medical So-
ciety," I have been wondering, now that the

[Column 2]
number of women physicians is so large, and
constantly increasing, why they do not organize
a society themselves. Since women are capable
of fitting themselves to be either doctors, law-
yers, or ministers, they are capable of organizing
and carrying on a medical society of their own,
that shall be an honor to their profession, and
acknowledged as such by like societies through
out the country. We certainly feel that there
is intellect and talent combined with medical
knowledge and experience sufficient to carry on
such a society.
	I believe that the refusal of the "Massachu-
setts Medical Society" to open its doors to
women physicians, comes from a conscientious
conviction that it is not for the best interest of
physicians of both sexes, and though I may not
agree with that conviction, still I have no right
to say that it is from narrow-minded prejudice.
The majority of the members of that society are
broad-minded men of sterling integrity, who
believe in the good work women physicians
are doing, and would not put a stumbling block
in the way of their success. I am not willing
to admit that women are not capable of having
as good a society as the "Massachusetts Medi-
cal," and did I belong to the corps of women
physicians in our city, I should lend my influ-
ence to organizing a society, be it ever so small
in the beginning. Said society should hold
regular meetings as often as deemed advisable
by the very best talent of the physicians of both
sexes in the state and country.
	I say—both sexes, for I think we should not
separate them, or feel that simply because we
are women, all knowledge must be gained
through women. Let us accept, as helpers in
the good work, all experience and suggestions,
from whatever source they may come. In
time, such a society would become a help, and
a power in the community.
	This course seems to me much wiser than to
keep on seeking admission into the other so-
ciety; and no one would give a "Women's State
Medical Society" a more hearty Godspeed than
the "Massachusetts Medical Society." I
frequently read our Boston Medical and Surg-
ical Journal, as well as several others published
elsewhere, and am surprised seldom or never
to find an article from a woman physican. So
far as I know, there is no law forbidding wom-
en to write for the various medical journals,
There is no surer way of helping on the cause
of woman than by women expressing, through
the press, their opinions upon all matters of
general interest to the public, whether it be
upon medical or other subjects. Men will
gladly acknowledge their worth, and even those
who have no special interest in our cause, will
in time acknowledge that we are equal to dis-
cussing with them important questions pertain-
ing to state and country. Surely women are
interested in political affairs, (we should be,) in
civil service reform, and the many questions
daily brought before the country, upon the
right intrepretation of which the future well-
being of our country depends. Yet we seldom
see in our daily papers anything bearing upon
these public questions by a woman.
	There is no surer way of women obtaining
the ballot upon all questions, than by proving
their competency to vote intelligently, and in
no way can a woman prove it so well, as by
expressing publicly the views she holds upon
all matters pertaining to legislation.
	Let the women of Massachusetts put their
shoulders to the wheel in earnest, and they
will wield a powerful influence, not only for
the good of womankind, but for the uplifting
of humanity.						E. E. B.
	Woman's Journal, Boston.


[Column 1]
	Archimedes invented the slang phrase,
"Give us a rest," when he offered top move the
world with his lever.

[Column 2]
KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 21 and 31 W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Children's Hoods
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
10th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

MRS, ROMANIA B. PRATT. M.D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence , Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Dlseases
ot Women, and Diseases, of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yams,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc, Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

 DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Adress, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations,

