VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1882.	No. 10.


A SUMMER REVERIE.

Through the green fields alone I love to stray,
	Musing and gazing on the landscape fair;
The fragrant freshness of the new-mown hay
	Is wafted daintily upon the air;
The breath of summer flow'rs refreshes me,
	And from restraint my tired heart is free.

Field-lilles speak to me such tender things,
	I love to listen to their silent pleading,
For to my mind the Savior's words it brings,
	And in obedience his precepts heeding
Consider! yea, how beautiful they grow,
	And yet they toil not, nature makes them so.

The flow'rs associate our minds with love,
	And waken fond remembrances most dear,
They lead the human soul to look above,
	And make us feel that surely God is near,
To guide our feet throughout our length of days,
	Yea, if we trust Him, into pleasant ways.

Oh, pleasant paths, where faith and hope combine,
	To teach us lessons, all who live should learn, 
To trust in God, and say "his will, not mine,"
	And realize 'tis only what we earn,
Will give us entrance into mansions fair,
	Which Scripture tells us Jesus will prepare.

And if our way is sometimes thickly strewn
	With thorns that pierce, and rocks as sharp as steel,
And we must tread this dang'rous path alone,
	While only One above knows what we feel,
Then will He not draw near to own and bless,
	The suff'ring soul who toils in loneliness?

These were my thoughts, and many more indeed,
	As ling'ring in the fields one summer day,
I felt within my heart an urgent need,
	Of loving help to aid me on my way;For I was weary with the toil and strife,
	Of daily contact in the walks of life.

Communing thus I sought some recognition,
	In nature, or through "nature's heart" to me,
Some whisper soft, or gentle intuition,
	That would express a loving sympathy.An inspiration filling me with zeal,
	Some knowledge of my future to reveal.

Ah, we poor human beings know not yet,
	One vital principle of a creation,
On ev'ry side with problems we are met,
	We may not solve, while here in this probation;
These are the hidden mysteries of heaven,
	That only to the faithful will be given.

But if an exaltation we shall gain, 
	Through our obedience to the laws of God,
Then we shall find it was not all in vain
	To walk by faith—or feel the chast'ning rod,
For hidden things to such will be reveal'd,
	Which erst for ages past had been concealed.	EMILE.

Sept. 23, 1882.


[Column 1]

WINTER HOUSE PLANTS.

	Who is there among the lady readers of the
EXPONENT, that does not love house plants,
and their culture? If any, they need not trou-
ble to read farther, as anything I have to say
will scarcely interest them.
	But to those who are fond of these trouble-
some pets, perhaps I can suggest with profit to
them, something learned from actual exper-
ience, and not from books on floriculture.
	What is there more bright or beautiful, in
the dull days of winter, or that makes a room
look cosier, than a glowing grate fire, and win-
dows full of blooming plants. I say blooming
because I suppose there are some like myself
(and for them I write) who have gone through
the seige so trying to amateur florists, i. e. of
tending with great care, plants that stubbornly

[Column 2]

refused to bloom, except when the summer
garden was lavish with blossoms, and we cared
bu little whether they favored us or not.
	Now I am aware I ought to have given my
information at least a month ago, but remem-
bering the old adage "better late than never,"
concluded to give it now, for the benefit of
those like myself, a little behindhand. I take
it for granted you all like free bloomers, and
will suggest some that are very easy to culti-
vate, and that richly repay a little care.
	The different varieties of flowering begonias,
the delicate beauty of whose foliage combined
with their graceful flowers, and free blooming
qualities, are very desirable for winter window
culture. The variety of leaf and blossom is
truly beautiful. I have one with lovely bronze
green, pointed leaves, and red translucent stems,
that is one mass of pale pink blossoms two
thirds of the year. Another dark green
rounded leaves and pure white blossoms; still
another, light green leaves and coral red flowers,
and my list is very incomplete.
	They require a temperature of about 70
degrees. The soil I use is moderately rich and
mixed with sufficient fine sand for good drain-
age. Under these conditions my plants favor
me with masses of bloom most of the time,
and although I called them in the beginning
of this article troublesome pets, their care is
one of my chief pleasures.
	Do not think dear reader, that I have no
other plants to offer, of easy cultivation. O!
no. The dear old Calla is, and well deserves
to be, a favorite of mine, for it sends forth its
lovely waxen flower, with but little attention,
save water in profusion, and warmth. I call
it my 'angel flower,' it is so pure and beauti-
ful. And then there are the old stand bys,
the geraniums in all colors, double and single.
Pot them early in the fall in six or eight
inch pots, cut them down pretty well, give
good soil and a moderate allowance of water,
and they will repay you with numbers of blos-
soms all Winter.
	For hanging baskets, I have German ivy
and kenilworth, maderia and maurandya vines,
and ivy geraniums, with the lobelia plant
which is so pretty because of its mass of blue
flowers. And don't forget to try the begonia
as a basket plant. I assure you, they are a
lovely addition to our little hanging gardens.
	In conclusion, water your plants when they
need it. Don't go round every morning with
your watering pot, giving to each and all im-
partially. With plants you have to be partial;
some need twice as much as others, and I have
learned by experience, that a quantity suffi-
cient for one, is death to another. A good
rule to go by, (though there are exceptions,)
is to give more water to thin leaved plants,
than to thick leaved ones.
	You will soon see when you give too much,
as the foliage will drop.
	I have mentioned only a few flowers, but
they are all easily cultivated, and I hope if
tried, will give as much pleasure to you as they
have to me, I think you cannot fail to have
success, if you love flowers as well as I do.
	MYOSOTIS.


HOMESPUN TALKS WITH HERSELF.

	Homespun and I have a very odd habit of
talking when in doubt on any subject; Sarah
Ann taking one side and I the other. Our
thoughts drifted the other night on to the shore


of Mutual Improvement Associations, and we
discussed the subject, very privately, for a long
while. Then we carried our ideas to the head
and front of the M. I. A's, and still we wern't,
not quite satisfied, and so we detirmined to
put some questions to the wise EXPONENT.
	Sarah Ann says she don't care much about
going to the M. I. meetings because she dosen't
appreciate the monotonous exercise from the
Book of Mormon or Bible, the very tame re-
marks that follow, and the little reading from
some book or paper. Now I am heartily
ashamed of Sarah Ann, but I can't quite force
her to go. We were informed that we were
not spiritual minded enough. But, what are
we to do? We like to hear a good sermon, we
like to read our own Bible and Book of Mor-
mon in the spirit thereof, but we can't quite
bring ourselves to be "spiritual-minded."
	Sarah Ann says she knows lots of young
people who are good, moral, honest, hardwork-
ing perhaps, but they arn't spiritual-minded.
They'd like real well to go to some society
where they could improve their minds, but
they lack the spirituality to want to preach
(they call it preach) and listen to dreary read-
ings from books. Now she says, what's to be
done with this mass of young people, who are
otherwise good Mormons?
	Sarah Ann goes on to say that she don't
think the young people should be chided too
much for their love of dress. She thinks the
older ones ought to devise means to fill up
their minds with other thoughts, and reason
them out of their folly, not drive them into it.
Can we not have some kind of societies where
we may study a little of everything? Physi-
cal Geography, Mental Philosophy, Chemistry,
Civil Government, etc. etc? Then we will
gladly study also the Bible and other Church
works.
	I told Sarah Ann that these things were
taught in the High Schools of the Territory.
Ah, yes, she replied, but the majority of our
young people can't get "the ghost of a chance"
to attend them. Still they want to know
something, and, where is the place to be helped
with these studies? Our young people ought
to be treated in the same manner as a gentle-
man told me a cow was taught to eat onions.
A handful of apples was given and one onion
thrown in. Can not we who are so unfortun-
ate as to be devoid of spirituality, have our
onions with lots of apples? What is the spirit
and genius of the M. I. A.?	S. A. Homespun.


WOMEN AND WHAT THEY ARE DOING.—
Mrs. M. M. Ricker, who was recently admitted
to the bar of the District of Columbia "passed,"
says a United States Senator, "the best exami-
nation among seventeen applicants, all men
but herself. She was found to be particularly
well versed in the law of real property, a
branch supposed to be beyond the reach of
female intellect."
	There are at the present moment nearly four
hundred female physicians in active practice
in twenty-six cities of the United States, the ma-
jority of them being settled in New York, Mas-
sachusetts, and Pennsylvania. These figures
show a very rapid increase in the number of
women practicing medicine in the United
States. A few years ago a lady doctor was
more or less a rara avis; now there is scarcely
a village in any one of the Eastern States
which can not boast of at least one such prac-
titioner.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	One member of our household I have omitted
to mention, a young lady (a native of the East
Indies) who obeyed the Gospel in England, and
emigrated with a company of Saints to Nauvoo.
Her mother was an East India lady of rank
and her father a distinguished English officer.
Her name was Eliza Monroe—an only child,
who had been accustomed to having wealth
and slaves at her command, until after she had
reached her teens, and her mother was taken
from her by death, when her father returned
to England, taking her with him, and in a few
years married a proud English lady. Eliza
was what might be called one of nature's noble
ladies; she was a brunette, slender and full of
grace and refinement, with none of the proud
and haughty airs of an aristocrat, which is
assumed by so many whom dame Fortune has
raised from the lower ranks, as if afraid of not
being recognized as such, but which is a posi-
tive and unmistakable sign of ignorance and
arrogance. She was never happy with her step-
mother; their natures and customs were so op-
posite to each other; there was no sympathy
between them. She was constantly criticised
as well as reproved for being too condescending
to inferiors, and too familiar with the servants,
because she would go among them and treat
them with courtesy, as she had been accus-
tomed to do in her native land. When her
cars were saluted with the everlasting Gospel
she received and obeyed its mandates, and she
had no misgivings nor regrets at leaving her
home in England, and following the Saints to
America. She was poor and penniless, and
had no knowledge of any kind of housework,
and feeling her inability to pay her way, she
was unwilling to sit idle, and would ask the
privilege of helping about the house; but her
help was only a hindrance, and father seeing
how she felt, bethought himself of his History,
which he asked her to copy. This pleased
her, as she could write a fine hand, besides it
being an agreeable employment. He admired
her about the house, because she was so quiet
and lady-like, and spoke of it repeatedly—that
he would not know of her presence if he did
not see her, a compliment seldom paid to a
lady. I still have a neck-ribbon which she
presented me, made by the natives, from the
bark of a tree in India which they call a silk
tree. After a little time she took a school of
young ladies, near my own age and taught
during the summer; when she was unfortunate
enough to marry a shiftless young man, who
came from England, and was incapable of pro-
viding for her. Soon after he denied the faith,
and in the time of our trouble, left for St.
Louis. While stopping at Winter Quarters,
some of the brethren being sent down to St.
Louis to purchase goods, she wrote and sent
by them some little tokens of remembrance to
my mother and myself. She was still strong
in the faith but in poor circumstances.
	Among a package of my father's papers lately
found, was the following letter of commenda-
tion, received from the Prophet, and signed by
his hand June 1843, which will explain the
object of his mission East.
	"To all Saints and honorable men of the
earth greeting:
	"Dear brethren and friends: I, Joseph Smith
a servant of the Lord, and Trustee-in-trust for
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, do hereby certify that the Bearer Here-
of, Heber C. Kimball, an Elder and one of the
Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, has deposited with
me his bond and security, to my full satisfac-
tion, according to the resolution of the Confer-
ence, held in this city, on the 6th day of April
last. He therefore is recommended to all Saints

[Column 2]

and honorable people, as a legal agent to col-
lect funds for the purpose of building the Nau-
voo House, and Temple of the Lord, confident
that he will honor this high trust, as well as
ardently fulfil his commission as a messenger of
peace and salvation, as one of the Lord's noble-
men—I can fervently say, may the Lord clear
his way before him, and bless him, and bless
those that obey his teachings, whenever there
are ears to hear and hearts to feel.
	He is in the language of the Hebrews
(Haura-ang-yeesh-rau-ale). The friend of
Israel, and worthy to be received and enter-
tained as a man of God: Yea, he has, as had
the ancient Apostles (0 logos o kalos) the good
word, even the good word that leadeth unto
eternal life. Laus Deus. Praise God. Where-
fore, brethren! and friends, while you have the
assurance of the integrity, fidelity, and ability of
this servant of the living God, trusting that
your hearts and energies will be enlivened, and
deeply engaged in the building of these houses,
directed by revelation for the salvation of all
Saints: and that you will not rest where you
are, until all things are prepared before you,
and you are gathered home with the rest of
Israel, to meet your God,—I feel strong in the
belief, and have a growing expectation, that
you will not withhold any means in your power
that can be used to accomplish this glorious
work. Finally as one that greatly desires the
salvation of man, let me remind you all to
strive with a godly zeal, for virtue, holiness
and the commandments of the Lord. Be
good, be wise, be just, be liberal; and above all
be charitable always, abounding in good
works. And may health, peace and the love
of God our Father, and the grace of Jesus
Christ our Lord be and abide with you all, is
the sincere prayer of your devoted brother and
friend in the everlasting Gospel,
						Joseph Smith."
	City of Nauvoo, June 1st. 1843.

	(The Hebrew I have omitted giving only the
interpretation.)

	The following I gathered from my father's
journal:
	"Pittsburg, July 28th, 1843. Last evening
Elders B. Young, George A. Smith and W.
Woodruff, came to our meeting as Elder Page
was preaching. I must say that I was glad to
see them, as Elder O. Pratt and myself have
been in this city nearly four weeks waiting for
them. I thank my Father in heaven that I
have the privilege of hearing from my dear
brothers and sisters and family; received three
letters, one from my wife, one from my son
William, and one from Helen. How precious
to hear from my dear family whom I love and
prize above all things here on earth, but I
leave all for Christ's sake and the Gospel."
	During the summer we had (as was usual)
much sickness in the city. My mother and
babe, and all the rest of us were sick in the
early part of the season. From a letter re-
ceived from my father, dated Philadielphia
Aug. 13th, I gather the following.
	"On the 10th I went to the Post Office, and
found a letter, which gave me joy mixed with
sorrow, because you have been sick, and you
are so poor; O that I had you with me, to soothe
your task and make your burdens lighter.
Your letter was written on the 19th of July.
You said that little babe had been sick and all
the rest of the children; I am sorry, but hope
they are all well now. O, my God, bless them
and let their lives be precious in thy sight, is
my prayer all the day long; and my desire is
to make all happy and to have a pure heart
before God, but I am frail and a poor weak
man, and I need your prayers. I know that I
have them and you are all remembered when I
bow before my Father. * * * *"
	To be Continued.


LETTER FROM FAIRVIEW.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister: On the 16th inst. we were
favored with a visit from our esteemed Sister,
E. R. S. Smith, accompanied by our energetic
President, Mary A. P. Hyde, of this Stake,
and Sister Morrison of Mt. Pleasant, who, after
attending our Relief Society Conference at Mt.
Pleasant on the 15th, came to Fairview and
held a meeting at 2 p. m. on the 16th.
Although the weather was cold and stormy the
house was well filled. Sister Smith was very
earnest in her endeavors to impress upon the
sisters, and especially the young, the necessity
of learning for themselves of the truth of this
work, and to be true to their covenants and
their God. She also bore a faithful testimony
to the truth of celestial marriage, as revealed
to the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Sisters Hyde and Morrison also bore their
testimony to the same. Said they had been
placed in circumstances to know whereof they
spoke. Said they would not be willing to live
their lives over outside of that relation, for
they knew it tended to elevate and not degrade
women.
	Sunday morning it was raining and very
cold, but the sisters, accompanied with Bishop
Tucker and wife, President Pritchett and
others, wended their way to Thistle Valley,
where they held meeting and completed the
organization of the Relief Society and Primary,
and encouraged the sisters to be diligent in
holding their meetings and attending to their
several duties.
	They returned in the evening, and at 9
o'clock the next morning met with the Primary
of this place. Sister Smith instructed the
children in their duties and gave them much
motherly counsel which I am sure is apprecia-
ted, for it always makes the children's eyes
brighten to hear that Sister E. R. S. Smith is
coming to see them. Altogether we had a
time of rejoicing, and we hope now that the
railroad runs through our valley, that we will
be favored with visits from our sisters more
frequently.			LOIS A. WILSON,
				Corresponding Secretary.


OHIO HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHIL-
DREN.—This charitable institution, which has
recently solicited so much public attention as
well as general contributions, has met with
such success as its benevolent character de-
serves. Almost from the day of its opening its
beds have been filled, and many applicants
have been refused admission for want of room.
One feels on entering its pretty carpeted hall
as if it were the entrance to a quiet, refined
home, and this impression is strengthened in
making a tour of the house. Its private rooms
are charmingly furnished, and ornaments, such
as ladies know so well how to arrange, are scat-
tered liberally through the house. Many of
the physicians of the city have manifested a
warm interest, and one has now a patient in a
private room. The gratitude of those who
have shared its privileges speaks well for its
usefulness. This institution is designed to be a
benefit to women. While its prime purpose is
to relieve the afflictions of women and children,
its helpfulness is also reflective. It increases
the facilities for practical work in the study of
medicine, for those women of the city who may
wish to adopt the profession. Since its doors
were opened, it has cordially invited students
to the clinics, and given recent graduates work
in its dispensary. The attending physicians, at
present, are the two ladies who have so long
and earnestly labored for its establishment,
Dr. Ellen M. Kirk and Dr. Martha M. Howells.
The resident physician is Dr. Sarah Bebout, a
recent graduate of Pulte College.—Selected.
								H. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"WHAT'S IN A NAME?"

Fragrant as air from Eden,
	Mingled with wild-birds' lay
The name that you have given,
	Your new-born babe to-day,
It comes with mem'ries laden,
	Stirring deep founts of thought,
With magic light revealing,
	The changes time hath wrought.

As notes from some chance singer,
	Recalleth sweetest rhyme
Of dear old songs so tender,
	Sang oft in days 'Lang Syne,'
When life was free and gladsome,
	With only April tears,
When hope's bright rainbow colors,
	Shone over future years—

So that charmed name just spoken,
	Turns back time's tidal waves,
Rich treasure-troves are opened
	From out its hidden graves.
Like *rock of feeble olden,
	Concealing boundless store,
Enchanted but to open,
	To words of magic lore.

Without it vain the effort,
	An entrance to secure,
Name it! lo! quickly swingeth,
	Outward the pond'rous door.
Thanks to the power potent,
	That doth this charm impart,
Ne'er may it be withholden,
	From one poor human heart.

		L. M. HEWLINGS.
*See story of Forty Thieves.


[Column 1]

DEATH.

	When disease stalks through the land and
fastens its cold grip on our friends, we start at
every sound, and see in every shadow a mes-
senger for some loved one. We are constantly
meeting death in its ever varying forms.
	When Spring approaches, vegetation starts
to life; earth puts on her beautiful garments of
green, 'broidered by the matchless needle of
the goddess of nature; the pearly chasms are
turned to murmuring streams; the leafless trees
become pyramids of flowers, the gay winged
choristers chant their merry lays, all nature
looks lovely and man is content. A few short
months and the chilling blast of Autumn's
frost passes over nature; the leaves fall one by
one, the trunk with its branches only remain;
the myriads of sweet scented beauties which
bedecked our gardens are faded and gone, and
the bright hues of nature are changed to the
sombre one of death.
	Again the babe, the human bud of nature
is sweetly sleeping on its mother's breast;
when the form of the grim monster slowly
passes by, one breath from its cold lips and the
little spirit leaves the frail tenement of clay.
The sound of its innocent prattle and of the
pattering of the tiny feet are hushed. We
miss the soft touch of the dimpled arms, the
loving look from the pretty blue eyes. The
breast that has pillowed its flaxen curls is
filled with anguish unspeakable.
	There is another, not a bud, for the dew of
heaven has watered it and the bright rays of
the sun have warmed it into life and the
atmosphere of home is filled with the perfume
of its loveliness. We watch with fond though
aching hearts, hoping, yet fearing. We antici-
pate a bright future, days of usefulness and
honor; the blessings of motherhood and old
age for our beautiful flower. A shadow looms
in the distance; the chilling breeze of death is
near, its icy touch is on our blooming rose;
the dear form droops, the peach bloom disap-
pears from the cheeks, the love light from the
bright eyes; a sad tender look, a gentle sigh,
like the murmer of the leaves, and all is over.
	Again death is seen approaching; the blood
curdles in our veins, with outstretched arms
and quivering frame we gasp, who next? In

[Column 2]

the agony of our soul we cry "take me! take
me!" but the skeleton, with a ghastly smile
cruelly cries "wait!" With bursting heart we
turn to see who next. Ha! it is the sturdy
oak. The husband, who has so tenderly
guided our footsteps through life's ragged
path, turns pale, the proud step falters; the
iron will gives way; reason totters on her
throne; the master mind which has meted out
justice to all is shaken; the dear form wastes
away day by day, a few convulsive throes and
and we are left alone. Oh, the nights of dark-
ness that come over our waking dreams.
Anon we sleep, the soothing handmaid of
nature bends over us; by her mesmeric touch
the strained nerves are soothed.
	The scene changes. A beautiful river
appears, floating on its surface a frail bark
Its lonely occupant, a man—a noble, Godlike
man. What strange sensations come over us.
Who is the noble being? See! that monstrous
wave will dash the frail bark to pieces. Ha!
it is lost. No! the wave has passed, it is safe;
onward it flies, scarcely seeming to touch the
foaming waves. We gaze breathlessly on the
sight; the haven is reached; with a light step
he leaps on the shore.
	A noble mansion is seen in the distance;
soft strains of "Beautiful gates ajar" are heard
from angel voices; two lovely forms emerge
from those gates; the light of exaltation beams
from their eyes. With quickened step the
stranger hastens to meet them; how joyous
they meet, with what rapture they embrace
each other. List! they speak. Father, daugh-
ters. Oh my soul! I recognize them; my
husband, my children! happy trio! Rest, poor
beating heart! It is sorrow to thee, but joy to
them; a death here, a birth there.
	As the last strains of music die, a still, small
voice whispers, be comforted broken one; be
faithful, watch and wait! A few short years
and you, with them, will inherit eternal life.
The bitter pang is past. With tearful eyes,
yet beating, hopeful heart we whisper, Father,
"thy will be done."	M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


[Column 1]

﻿WOMAN'S STATUS.

	In the world of renown man predominates,
but he does not excel. There are more great
men than women, but no greater.
	Woman's place in literature is granted. None
dispute her right. In the professions of the age
—medicine, law, science, art &c., she is rapidly
progressing, and ere long will count her number
equally with man. 'Tis owing more to the great
restraint that has been put on her, that she has
kept from balancing her mind in the great
weight—the world of fame—with man for so
many years; but now as the chains gradually
loosen she gains her place step by step, and be-
fore the dawning of another century her place
will be universally recognized.
	There is one place where man has ever stood
foremost, and few are the women who have sought
renown in that way, war. But even here man
is not entirely alone. Hundreds of thousands of
men have endangered their lives in the cause of
their country, but as many women have felt the
same throbs of patriotism and have endured un-
told hardships for the same cause. And who
can say which is the harder, to risk one's own
life in battle for an honorable cause, or to suffer
the lives of those we love far dearer than our-
selves to be in danger. Any true woman would
rather suffer than see others in agony, and there-
fore her endurance for country's sake is noble in-
deed. There are some women who risk not only
their own lives, but break the chains of rigid
custom and show themselves foremost in the
ranks of armed men, like the maid of Saragossa,
or in the hospitals like the heroine of Scutari.
There are hundreds as intrepid as either of these

[Column 2]

and which is the braver or nobler? It would be
hard to tell; for to meet the cannon's mouth in
open battle calls for no greater courage than to
meet disease among the dead and dying, and to
witness the mortal anguish and suffering of our
fellow men. Have those women done aught
against the sanctity of their sex to a nobler plat-
form and a higher sphere. Who would utter a
word against Florence Nightingale, the noble,
beautiful heroine of the Crimea. How she toiled
in the hospitals in that foreign land, and gave
hope and life to thousands of men. She was
fairly idolized by the troops; one of the soldiers
said, "She would speak to one and to another,
and nod and smile to as many more; but she
couldn't do it to all, you know; we lay there by
hundreds; but we could kiss her shadow as it
fell, and lay our heads on the pillow again con-
tended." She always was cheerful and kind,
and brought a pure and sacred influence with
her. Another soldier was known to say, "Be-
fore she came, there was cursin and swearin, and
after that it was as holy as a church." No gen-
eral ever did a nobler deed than she. The most
one can do, is the sacrifice of a life, and the
nobler and better the life, the greater must be
the sacrifice. What wonder that she received
homage from the "noble of the land." 'Twere
little reward for the Sultan of Turkey, or the
Queen of England to present her with jewels,
or for the English nation to raise her a fortune to
onable her to instruct others in the dinnie art o
alleviating pain. She returned to England, which
a short time before she had left in perfect health,
an invalid for life; but she was never known to
regret that she had made the sacrifice of her
own health, for she felt the reward of renewing
the health of hundreds of others.
	Perhaps her name and deeds were an incen-
tive to the women of America, for while she
overcome the opposition of old surgeons and
obstinate seargents in the Crimea, she also
smoothed the path of American women on the
banks of the Mississippi and Potomac, where
deeds of sacrifice and bravery abounded to a
greater extent than was ever known before.
	American mothers sent forth their sons to
face the cannons of war or to languish in horrible
prisons. Was there no sacrifice there? Think
of the bleeding of a mother's heart as she parts,
perhaps forever, with her son who was her pride
and glory. Think of the wives and daughters
who parted from husband, father, son and
brother; with the thought—this may be our last
good bye. These wives, mothers, and sisters sat
not idly at home, bemoaning their fate, but en-
couraged their loved ones in fighting for their
country, prayed for them and worked for them.
	Societies were efficiently organized where
the women sewed and knit, and made deli-
cacies for the sick and collected stores and
money to keep the treasury of the Sanitary
Commission full. Some worked thus, but many
went right to the fight, and labored with the
wounded and the sick. Volumes might be
written about the noble women of the Rebellion,
but the subject is almost too vast, for pen to try
to portray. In the hearts of the soldiers these
women have a record and a monument, if in no
other place. The women of the north and of
the south, both labored hard in the hospitals and
some on the battlefield. It would scarcely be
just to make mention of one, there were so many
equally great. No thought of romance or glory
inspired these women but a pure love for coun-
try, liberty and humanity.
	As men enlisted as soldiers, women enlisted as
nurses, and to both, not to one, was the suc-
cessful issue due. In truth if glory were to be
divided would it not fall more to the ones who
saved lives than to the ones who risked them?
	ANNIE.


76	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	[--]ponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt	Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	OCTOBER 15, 1882.


[Column 1]
CONVENTION N. W. S. A. AT OMAHA.

	The first meeting was a preliminary one held
in the parlors of Boyd's Opera House, at 2 o'clock
p. m., Tuesday, Sept. 26. Ch. Ex. Com. May
Wright Sewall, presiding. It was decided at
this meeting what committees should be ap-
pointed and of whom they should consist.
	1st.	Committee on Credentials.
	2d.	Committee on Resolutions.
	3d.	Committee on Nominations.
	These several committees included one at least
from every State or Territory represented at the
Convention. The ladies talked over the neces-
sity of having a regular medium of communi-
cation through the press, which the Association
had not had since the National Citizen of Syra-
case, N. Y., was discontinued; After some
amiable discussion of the matter, a vote was
taken to make "Our Herald" the medium of
such communication. This is already a very
popular paper, and will no doubt more than dou-
ble its circulation now that it is to contain
complete details of the work of the N. W. S. A.
Its editor, Mrs. Helen M. Gougar is a sharp,
shrewd, bright, intelligent lady, and on the
platform witty, brilliant and sparkling, holding
the undivided attention of her audiences, and
they never tire of her interesting themes and
apt illustrations. She speaks much in the open
air, which is rather uncommon for a lady, and
has by this means accomplished a good work in
Nebraska, during the present campaign, taking
in another class of men and winning many over
to the cause, who otherwise would never have
heard woman's political position explained,
or ever given it a thought. There is no doubt
but she will make the paper very useful in the
cause of woman's suffrage as indeed it has been
heretofore, though perhaps not so exclusively.
	Tuesday evening, half past 7, the Convention
was formally opened, with prayer by the Rev.
Mr. Sherrill, Congregational minister at Omaha.
Then followed a written address of welcome by
the Hon. A. J. Poppleton of that city, but un-
fortunately for him the light was not sufficient
to admit of his reading it, but it was published
in the morning paper. Mrs. May Wright Sewall
of Indiana, Mrs. Helen M. Gougar and Miss
Anthony were the speakers and everybody was
delighted; the large opera house was crowded
and the applause occasionaly was immense.
	Wednesday morning, half past ten, was an
executive session, Mrs. Sewall, Chairman, Miss
Pearl Adams was chosen Secretary, and almost
the entire time was devoted to reports from the
different localities in Nebraska. Some other busi-
ness was transacted and meeting adjourned un-
til 2 p.m., at that time the house was full in
every part, and the audience most attentive.
Miss Susan B. Anthony presiding. Miss An-
thony is looked up to by the suffrage ladies, as
a reverend mother, and she has a kind word
and apt advice for each one; she is a mother in
the largest sense of the word; she has devoted

[Column 2]
her life, or more than thirty years of it to a
principle, to the work of elevation for women,
and she is receiving at this late day some of the
homage and appreciation, which she so richly
deserves and has so justly merited. Addresses
were delivered, one of which we publish in full
in this issue and some others will be in our next
issue. There was another regular session of the
Convention in the evening, and Matilda Hind-
man of Pa., was the first speaker.
	Executive session. Thursday morning was
devoted to reports from the several States and
Territories, that were there represented; they
were called in alphabetical order.
	Consequently Utah came near the last, and
it was almost time to adjourn, but after com-
mencing to make a verbal report to save time
one of the ladies stated that a complete written
report had been prepared. The written report
was called for both from the platform and from
the audience, and it was voted that it should be
given in full. It was exceedingly well received,
in fact said to be the most perfect report and
the best presented.
	Thursday afternoon considerable time was
taken up in discussing the slanders of the
"Omaha Herald." Mrs. Saxon of Louisiana,
and Miss Couzens of St. Louis, were brilliantly
eloquent on the subject in defending Mrs.
Gougar and Mrs. Sewall of Indiana, against the
base fabrications and insinuations of the Herald
editor. After all this world of words, which
were choice and possitive, Mrs. Sewall came to
the front and said she should never have thought
of taking up the subject, although she was
much obliged to her good friends for so cordially
and ably espousing her cause, but for her own
part she could uot understand the dialect in
which it was written. It was consequently un-
intelligible to her and fell harmless as far as she
was concerned. Pure minded, high bred people
would not understand the language of the arti-
cle and therefore she had no fear of it. The
brief speech was scathing and had a more tell-
ing effect than all the eloquence of the ladies
who defended her. Mrs. Shattuck of Boston
was the first regular speaker.
	The evening session was the most crowded of
all, there was not even standing room left any-
where in the Opera House.
	The resolutions were read and approved.
	At half past nine the reception opened at the
parlors of the Paxton. Everything had been
arranged in elegant style, and the conversation
was kept up until a late hour, though many re-
tired as soon as they had paid their devoirs,
to Miss Anthony, Miss Couzens and the leading
ladies. To attempt a description of the affair
would take too much time, suffice it to say, it
passed off pleasantly, most of the time being
taken up with introductions, to people one never
expects to meet again, and knows nothing of
them except the name and perchance title.
Good byes were in order at the close, and many
kisses were interchanged and tears dropped in
the fond heartfelt adieux.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	Report of Women's Conferences Salt Lake,
Utah and Tooele Stakes are held over till next
issue, also the continuation of "A Repre-
sentative Woman;"and several other interesting
articles.
	CORRECTION: In WOMAN'S EXPONENT of
October 1, No. 9, in the article entitled Scenes
and Incidents, In Nauvoo, two errors occur, one
is the date of July 8, 1844, which should be June
8, 1844; the other Gen. Wm. Law which should
read Gen. Wilson Law.


COMPENDIUM: People who wish to obtain a
knowledge of the principles and doctrines of the
Latter-day Saints will be greatly assisted in the
work of investigation by the "Compendium"
just issued from the press of the Deseret News.
It has been carefully prepared for publication by
Apostle F. D. Richards and Elder James A.
Little; and is a thorough and complete work of its
kind. It should be in every household and in
the pocket of every traveling missionary for ref-
erence. The Chronology which comes over
twenty pages, makes the volume still more
valuable. We think these brethren deserve
great credit for the adaptability of the book
to be used for which it is designed and also
the perfection of the subjects. It is for sale
at the Office of the Deseret News. Price one
dollar.
	THE Territorial Convention of the People's
Party convened in the City Hall, Monday, Oct.
9, at 12 m. A temporary organization was
effected and a committee on credentials appoint-
ed, some political speeches were made and an
adjournment agreed upon to Thursday, Oct. 12,
at 2 p. m. At that time a permanent organiza-
was effected and other committees appointed,
and adjourned to half past six p. m. During
the evening session several speeches were made
and Mrs. M. I. Horne being called upon, re-
sponded in a most happy manner. Convention
held two sessions on Friday and finished up the
business in a very satisfactory manner. The
Committee on Resolutions made an excellent
report, and the Convention decided that 20,000
copies be printed and distributed. After dis-
cussing and voting, etc., Hon. John T. Caine
received the nomination as candidate for the
office of Delegate, and made a very excellent
speech in response to a call from the House.
C. W. Penrose offered the following:
	Resolved, That in the Hon. Geo. Cannon the
people of Utah have had an able, upright and
fearless gentleman as their Delegate in Congress
for several sessions; that his exclusion from the
present Congress was a cruel blow aimed at the
right of representation; that the honorable gen-
tleman has the confidence, esteem and admira-
tion of the People's Party, and that we hereby
tender him the thanks of the people for his
faithful services in their behalf.
	In electing the Ter. Cen. Com., the ladies
were neglected or forgotten, but after the Reso-
lutions were offered, Mr. Penrose thinking it in-
consistent with the plank in the platform relat-
ing to woman suffrage, moved that the lady
delegates be permitted to nominate two ladies.
Accordingly the names of Mrs. E. B. Wells and
Mrs. M. I. Horne were added to the committee.
We regret that we have not space to publish
the resolutions but intend doing so and hope our
readers will read them carefully, for they are
worthy all consideration.


IN MEMORIAM.

	In the midst of life we are in death! Another
noble spirit has departed! One whom we
had vainly hoped to keep with us longer. And
although we realize her ameliorated condition, we
feel so deeply the want of her angelic presence,
her beloved society, "Which was ever like the
perfumed flower, Dispensing sweets through
every hour."
	Clara Young Conrad was born in the State of
Iowa, Pottawotomie County, July 30th, 1850.
She was indeed a child of faith, born in the new
covenant, the daughter of the late President
Joseph Young, and Sister Mary Ann Burn-
ham Young—her mother a plural wife, ever
patient and enduring, trustful and hopeful
through all trying scenes of the early establish-
ment of this Gospel and promulgation of the


principle of Plural Marriage—and she seemed
to have endowed her child with the same
sweet and peaceful spirit, for it has ever been
manifested throughout her whole existence.
And of her it can be truly said "Those who
knew her best, loved her most." This I can
truly say—having known her since her early
girlhood—and in retrospecting this acquaintance,
I can find no blemish in her character.
	In 1867 she was married to Jasper Conrad,
and with others shared the hardships and priva-
tions of the ever to-be-remembered "Muddy
Mission," enduring ill-health and the many dis-
comforts incident to the journey with the most
patient fortitude, never a word of complaint
passed her lips. Her faith and trust in God was
unbounded, manifesting itself in very early life.
Upon one occasion of attending meeting the
desire came upon her to hear the gift of tongues,
and in faith she offered up a fervent prayer that
this desire might be granted, which indeed it
was before the closing of the services; this was
at the early age of eleven years.
	Sister Conrad although a thoroughly domestic
woman—a true wife and mother in the truest
sense of the term—possessed a spirit of love and
benevolence towards all, and has been active in
many public capacities, acting as first counselor
to President M. A. Freeze, of the Stake Presi-
dency of the Y. L. M. I. A. And notwith-
standing her weak condition, she traveled con-
siderably from town to town instructing and
exhorting the young, and yielding a powerful
influence for good—all listening with enrapt
attention to her eloquent and inspired teach-
ings. Her great desire has ever been to live for
good and usefulness, but she has now passed to
another sphere of action, where her labors will
not cease, and all the desires of her heart will
be granted.
	For a number of years this patient woman
has been a great sufferer with lung trouble,
terminating in organic disease of those vital
parts. Of late her friends have watched her
with the most anxious solicitude, fearing that
the sands of life were fast ebbing away. Yet
the last few weeks seemed to bring a favorable
change—these hopes proved fallacious—for upon
the 20th of September she passed away without
scarcely a moment's notice—dying in her
mother's arms, that most faithful of all friends
who has so unselfishly nursed and watched over
her from the cradle to the grave. Although her
demise was sudden—she was ready to go, for
such as she are ever prepared to answer their
Maker's call. Her good works are gone before
her. She leaves a husband and three children
with numerous relatives and friends to mourn
her untimely departure.

A bright spirit has flown, a loved one departed,
	A weary one gone to her rest,
While friends are left desolate, bowed and sad-hearted,
	Yet feeling that Father knows best.

Cold death often visits the most perfect household,
	Selecting the dearest of all;
None purer, nor better, from out of the threshold
	E'er answered the sorrowful call—

Than Clara—so lovely in face, mind and spirit,
	Intelligent, gentle and true;
Her counsel so wise, that all paused to hear it,
	Like wisdom is given to few.

We know that our loved one is free from all sorrow,
	She knoweth no more mortal pain;
We'll try to look forth with hope to the morrow,
	When we"ll meet, and ne'er part, from our Clara
		again.

E. R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS.

BY ARTIMESIA SNOW.

	Delivered in St. George, December 5th, 1878,
before a Mass meeting of ladies.
	We are called upon to-day to express our feel-
ings in regard to the principle of polygamy, and

[Column 2]
whether we uphold the proceedings of our Chris-
tian sisters—(call them sisters because they are
of our sex) or whether we enter our protest
against them. Sisters, I am a sincere believer
in plural marriage. In 1844 my husband first
asked my consent to take to himself other wives.
I freely gave it, believing such an order of mar-
riage to be a pure and holy principle, revealed
from the heavens to our beloved Prophet, Seer,
and Revelator. Knowing it to be a principle
practiced anciently by those, who now sit at the
right hand of our Father in Heaven, and know-
ing also my husband to be a virtuous man, and
entering into that order out of pure motives and
in obedience to the will and commandments of
Heaven, I say I freely gave my consent. I have
lived in the order of Celestial marriage thirty-
five years. I have no wish—I have no desire—to
have it changed or abolished.
	For why should I wish to change the plans of
the Almighty, that He has marked out for the
benefit of the human family?
	I have not been without my trials in the prac-
tice of this principle, but I have had peace and
comfort, and I have had sorrow. I expected to be
tried. I entered into it with that expectation.
I had my prejudices to subdue, my selfishness
to overcome, and many things to contend with.
	The Lord has said, He would have a tried peo-
ple, that they should come up through great
tribulation, that they might be prepared to en-
dure His presence and glory. If I had no trials,
I should not expect to be numbered with the
People of God, and therefore not be made a par-
taker of His blessings and glory.
	I have reared a large family in this marriage
system. I have been the mother of eleven child-
ren. My husband has been the father of thirty-
five, twenty-six now living, all equally honorable
in as much as they pursue an upright, righteous
course through life. Out of that number there
are sixteen sons. Not one of them has ever
committed any crime that has brought a stain
upon their character or a dishonor upon the
heads of their parents. Not one of them is
given to tippling or drunkenness, not one
smokes or chews tobacco, and as fast as they
arrive at mature age, earn their living by the
sweat of the brow, or by the labor of their
own hands. Why should they not be honorable?
Their father is an honorable man. He is hon-
ored with that priesthood that emanates from
the Gods.
	We have children born in the new and ever-
lasting covenant of marriage, who are walking
in the footsteps of their father and mothers, and,
I trust, will honor it.
	My sister next older than myself, was the
first woman given in plural marriage. She lived
and died a good, faithful Latter-day Saint, true
to the principles she embraced and is now re-
joicing with her husband, our beloved Prophet,
in the eternal worlds. If I can walk in her foot-
steps, imitate her example, and attain that
glory and exaltation that I believe she has, I
will be satisfied.
	It looks very odd to me nowadays to see a man
living alone with one wife, especially a middle
aged man. It does very well for new beginners,
just starting out on the journey of life to begin
with one, and then add to. But to see a man
in the decline of life, I say it looks odd. It looks
selfish, contracted, drawn up into a nut shell.
It puts me in mind of the blessing that was
asked "O Lord, bless me and my wife, my son
John and his wife, us four and no more. Amen."
	We have been driven from a should-be land of
freedom and liberty. We have wended our
way over a trackless desert, footsore and bleed-
ing, to these valleys of the mountains, thinking
here the weary could find rest. Thinking here
we could live in peace, enjoy our rights and
freedom, and worship God according to the dic-

[Column 3]
tates of our own conscience. But in this we
have been disappointed. Our persecutors not
being satisfied with driving us from county to
county, from state to state, and at last from the
United States, have followed us here. And
from time to time have gotten up their crusades
against us to annoy and perplex, and last of all,
our Chritian sisters (?) have taken it in hand, to
deliver us from that awful yoke of bondage and
oppression (?) with which we are bound, and
raise us from that low state of degradation (?)
into which we have fallen. My Christian sisters,
this is a mistaken idea of yours! We are not the
kind of women you take us to be. There are
just as pure, virtuous, noble spirited women in
Utah, as you will find any where on the foot-
stool of God. You need not be to that trouble.
We can deliver ourselves if we chaose. We can
live in the plural marriage system or out of it.
There is no compulsion whatever. Wait till we
solicit your aid. We have not asked your ser-
vices. We do not need them. We do not want
them. They are voluntary. It is what I call
offered service, and it is a stink in our nostrils!
	If you do not like our religion, if you do not
like the principles which we practice, I would
say to all such then hie ye away to your own
cities and homes from whence ye came, and
there get up your petitions to Mrs. Hayes to
use her influence for Congress to legislate for
the morality of your own cities and towns.
Bestow your labors where they are needed, and
not here. Charity should begin at home, and
then perhaps we should not have so many
foundlings dropped at our doors as we now have.
Poor things! With all our numerous children
born in plural marriage to support, we can take
care of them too. They are human flesh. We
have enough for all. Utah has made no provi-
sion for illegimate children. Latter-day Saints
have none such, nor ever expect to have while
they practice plural marriage.
	It is quite enough for the sterner sex to get up
these crusades against an innocent people,
without your imbrueing your hands in the blood
of innocence. You will have enough to do to
plead for mercy at the bar of God to be ex-
tended to your husbands and fathers who have
committed the like acts. You should have com-
menced this task thirty-five years ago, when
this principle now so despised was in its infancy.
But it has lived, grown up, and become of age,
and your puny arm cannot overthrow it.
	God is at the helm. In Him we trust. And
I pray that we may live in peace in these valleys
of the mountains, and be permitted to continue
our labors in redeeming this barren waste and
making it to become a fruitful field and a place
beautiful to the beholder; and sit under our
own vine and fig tree, with no one to molest
or interfere, while God shall pour out His
scourges and judgments upon the wicked and
ungodly, and all those who reject the Ever-
lasting Gospel, and especially upon all these
who seek the overthrow and destruction of this
people.
	NOTE. Mrs Artimesia Snow whose address
we publish above is the first wife of Apostle
Erastus Snow, of St. George. She was the
daughter of Alma and Sarah Beaman and was
born at Lerona, Livingston County, New York,
March 30, 1819. She was married to Erastus
Snow then quite a young man, in Far West,
Mo., December 13, 1838. She has ever been a
firm believer and earnest advocate of the doc-
trines and principles of the Latter-day Saints.
Her address to the ladies of St. George, is copied
from the records of the Relief Society of that
place, as many of her friends were desirous to
see it in print, that her testimony upon the
principle of celestial marriage might be on
record. Ed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

OUR CONFERENCE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The Conference of October 6th, 1882, has just
closed; but the spirit that pervaded it and the
marvelous influence it threw over all that
mighty assemblage of thousands of human
beings, will long, long be felt! s[-]ely it will
never fade or die, but, will pass into different
forms as it prevades the human strata. My heart
yearned, and still yearns to see it appear again
in pamphlet form, and issued through the
United States, and England, that honest minds
might read and be instructed from the perusal.
Some of the discourses were so inspirational, so
logically truthful, so actually sublime, that it
seems to me, that every honest, every intelligent
mind, every man or woman who have held the
Bible as an inspired volume, and containing the
plan of salvation, and the rule and guide of life,
must at once decide, that a Voice was heard in
that Tabernacle during those four days, soaring
above all human voices declaring the truth of
the words spoken, and of the principles advoca-
ted, yes—and it was a Voice from which there
was no appeal!
	Can it be possible that any man or woman
who has been raised under the teaching of the
Old and New Testament, who have acknowl-
edged as their God, the God of Abraham, Isaac
and Jacob, acknowledged Jesus Christ as the
Savior and Redeemer of the world, and conse-
quently as their Savior and Redeemer, can they,
could they hear, or read the discourses of the
last four days, these days of Conference and
turn away—shut up their ears and their un-
derstanding and decide they cannot receive
it, simply because these sublime truths, these
sublime principles were promulgated by Latter-
day Saint Elders, when they are the same prin-
ciples they have been educated under, the
same truths enunciated, only enlarged and
elaborated and illuminated by a greater light,
even the light of revelation!
	The God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob—of
Enoch, of Moses, of Isaiah, of Ezekiel and all
the ancient Prophets—is the God of the Latter-
day Saints, Jesus Christ the acknowledged
Savior of the world, is the acknowledged Savior
of the Latter-day Saints—then why is all this
rejection, this turning away from TRUTH?
Truth is eternal, and cannot clash, or misfit
with another truth.
	Satan spoke truth to the Savior when tempt-
ing him—saying "He hath given His angels
charge concerning thee lest thou dash thy foot
against a stone!" Who does not know that this
was truth even from the mouth of Satan? I
am speaking to illustrate that "Truth is truth
where'er 'tis found!" How often does a very
child speak a truth, at which we are astounded,
and for the moment we are humbled, as though
in the presence of a superior being, and "we
knew it not!" What beautiful, sublime, and
practical truths those ancient but most accom-
plished heathens enunciated for the rule and
guide of life! What morals! What manners!—
so pure, that they have been studies for the
pure, and good, through all those ages even down
to us! As Brother Kimball used to say of good
things, "if they are not in the Bible they ought
to be!" Who thinks of rejecting them? No one,
they are in the libraries of all the great and
grand of earth to-day! All acknowledge them
as sublime truth. Yet they were enunciated by
men who raised an altar "To the unknown
God!" They also were ahead of their times—
and were hated and put to death for the prin-
ciples which they taught and practiced; I will
only name two of these great, grand men, Sene-
ca and Socrates one was placed in a warm bath,

[Column 2]

and bled to death, and the other was presented
with a bowl of poison; these are but specimens
of thousands, who in different forms have met
a cruel death for the principles of purity and
morality which they taught and practiced and
all the good and intelligent of all the ages since,
have held their words up as immortal models
and almost deified the writers.
	When Christ was upon the earth, all know
how He was received, and treated, it was only
the few, the poor, but the pure in heart, who
received his teachings, and His followers re-
ceived the name of Christian in derision! Since
then and for generations He has been acknowl-
edged, the worshiped—the deified Son of God!
Are His words truer to-day than when they
issued from His sacred lips? No they are the
same "yesterday, to-day and forever," but it
has become popular—yes fashionable if you
please, to worship Him—with the lip at any
rate!
	A mind, open to truth, from whatever source
it comes is a God-given mind, such a mind can-
not be "far from the kingdom of God." Truth
never extends her hand to error, let it take what-
ever form of beauty it may. Truth is the Priest-
ess of God, speaks by His voice, inspired by
His spirit, leads and guides by His teachings is
eternal, immutable immortal! Error in what-
ever shape or form is ignorance, darkness
DEATH!
	How God forsaken must that mind be, that
does not know Truth when hearing it, how
perverted the training, how false the education
of such a mind! How sweet is truth, how we
love those whom we know ever speak truth!
What entire confidence we have in them! They
are a blessing to all who associate with them!
Now my mind reverts to those four days just
passed, and in my "mind's eye" I see those
assembled thousands every eye bent to one
focus, and every ear in the same direction,
every brain comprehending the principles en-
unciated, some more, some in less degree, but all
according to their capability, every heart ac-
knowledging, and endorsing those Heaven-
born principles—and I know the power and
spirit of God was in that assembly in a marvel-
ous degree, and I rejoice, and glory in the fact;
that mighty assembly comprised the covenant
servants and handmaidens of the Lord, who had
made a covenant with Him by sacrifice, many
had laid their heart's treasures upon the altar
and were ready for the sacrifice, if their salva-
tion could not be accomplished without it, all in
some way had made the needed sacrifice; if the
poor had not wealth, they had something nearer
and dearer—a father, or mother, or husband, or
wife, but they heard the Gospel in its fulness
and with it they heard a Voice saying, "Whoso
loveth father or mother or wife or child, or any
possession more than me or my Gospel is
not worthy of me! and cannot be my disciple,
but who will make a covenant with me by sac-
rifice, shall in this life receive a hundred fold,
and in that which is to come life everlasting."


[Column 1]
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

SUMMIT STAKE.

	The Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief
Societies of Summit Stake was held at Kamas
on Friday, Sept. 1st, 1882. The Conference
was well attended, nearly all the Ward Socie-
ties being represented. Presidents Cluff and
Pack, of the Stake authorities, were present as
were also Sisters Howard and Horne, from Salt
Lake City. The Conference was presided over
by President Mary J. Attwood. The Kamas
choir furnished excellent singing. The various

[Column 2]
﻿Society reports were read, and verbal represen-
tation of all save three were given by duly auth-
orized representatives, from which we learned
that the Stake organization was in a prosperous
condition.
	The Conference was addressed by Pres. M. J.
Attwood and Counselors Ann Cluff and Ruth
Pack, chiefly upon matters of local interest,
and of an appropriate nature. They were fol-
lowed by Sisters Howard and Horne; they
spoke in their usual interesting manner, upon
matters of general interest to the Societies.
Their remarks were listened to with marked
attention and were much appreciated. Sister
Howard complimented, in the course of her re-
marks, the sisters of the Kamas Society upon
the cleanly appearance of the meeting house,
and upon the neatness and order that was
manifest in the room.
	Presidents Cluff and W. E. Pack, made a
few cheering remarks, spoke encouragingly of
the work being done by the Societies in general;
and gave some good and appropriate instruc-
tions applicable to our present circumstances.
	Sister Eliza Rhead, President of the Y. L,
M. I. Associations, spoke in behalf of that
organization.
	On the following day (Saturday forenoon)
the Y. L. M. I. A., met in Conference, and the
afternoon was devoted to the Primary Associa-
tions, Sister L. Roundy, President. Both
meetings were addressed by Sisters Horne and
Howard. The remarks of Sister Horne at the
Y. L. and Primary meetings were replete with
good and appropriate counsel and advice, and
were given in such a pleasing and simple man-
ner, that the juvenile audience were highly
pleased and interested. Their bright and in-
telligent countenances showing to the observer
that they were highly pleased and edified in her
remarks to them.
	The Conference adjourned to meet in Coal-
ville on the first Friday in March next.
	This Conference was one of the best ever held
in the Stake; and let us hope that we will be
benefited thereby. All were highly pleased
and gratified with the visit of Sisters Howard
and Horne.				J. S. BOYDEN.

WEBER STAKE.

	DEAR SISTER WELLS,—The ladies of the
Relief Society—including the Y. L. M. I., and
Primary Associations, held their Conference on
Sept. 7th, 8th and 9th, insts., which were all
well attended considering the busy season.
The Spirit of the Lord was indeed with us, and
we received much good and wise counsel from
those who addresed us, which, if practiced,
would make us better and nobler men and
women. The Conferences were adjourned for
three months. Please excuse a more lengthy
report this time. Respectfully,
						MONTA HARRIS.
	Ogden.

ST. GEORGE PRIMARY.

	The P. A. of St. George Stake held a Fair
here on June 30th, and July 1st, in the base-
ment of the Tabernacle. Articles of all sorts
and kinds were exhibited,representing the labor
of children from four years of age to sixteen
years. One table was covered with fancy ar-
ticles, one table with that which is useful, one
with boy's articles, such as hay-racks, rakes, a
trunk or two, wagons, traps, doll's furniture,
&c., &c. Another table was devoted to vege-
tables, another to cookery, while the room was
lined with bed-quilts and rugs. A table was
given up to the display of silk, which was very
good. Much satisfaction was given, and all
seemed repaid for time and labor spent. Prizes
were given, necessarily very simple, by the Pres.
to encourage the children. Pres. J. H. Ivins,
who had the full responsibility on her shoul-
ders, deserves great credit for the manner in


which the Fair was conducted. In the even-
ing an entertainment by the several wards of
St. George was given in the Hall. It was a
success, and reflected great credit on those who
took part therein. It was given under the
charge of Mr. and Mrs. J.F. Gates.
	The financial report of the Fair and Enter-
tainment is as follows:	By cash, $38.60; by
trade, $35.35: total, 73.95. To expenses cash,
$2.50; trade, $5.00; total, 7.50. Profit, 65.45.
J. H. Ivins, Pres. S. Y. Gates, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 79


[Column 1]
﻿FROM OMAHA TO ATCHISON.

	Leaving Omaha on the Missouri Pacific
railway, at 7-10, the road runs through the
most beautiful country scenery. Omaha is
thickly peopled and shows great enterprise and
wealth, but the quiet of the country was
especially restful, and the season gave almost
perfect touches to the beauty of the landscape
as we sped along. Here and there were towns
and villages, but what pleased us most was
the scenery, the soft graceful willows by the
quiet murmuring rivulets, the variety of colors
more perfect than the picture of an artist, on
the hills, the pine, walnuts, elms, hickory and
powerful oak trees, all luxurious in foliage and
variegated as Joseph’s coat of many colors.
The flaming sumach in the distance with its
royal purple berries in such heavy bunches,
and the elder berries in magnificent blue clus-
ters, added much to the glorious charm of the
miles upon miles of woodland. Then again
there would be acres of cornfields and of
sugarcane, fully ripe, richly glowing in the
sunshine. As we neared Atchison, the scenery
was more diversified with hills and woodland
and of course more beautiful to one accus-
tomed to mountainous districts; one tries to see
all and look on both sides. Atchison is beau-
tifully situated on the Missouri river and is a
great railroad centre where you can take trains
East, West, North or South. There is some-
thing over 17,000 inhabitants, and the city is
growing rapidly. Newspapers published there
are as brimful of news and politics as in Omaha,
Chicago or New York. Our time was occu-
pied in visiting relatives, and therefore we had
little chance to make observations on what we
saw; we went to the city reservoirs up on the
hill tops and near to the oak groves; also to
the Oak Hill cemetery among the graves.
It is pleasant to be in the woods, and we
thought were the dead conscious of their sur-
roundings, it would be most agreeable to lie
under the giant oaks, where sheltered from the
storm and wind, and away from the bustle of
the great busy town, rest passive and quiet
among the shrubbery and flowers of the hills.
But the dead are not there, only the mortal
part, but the immortal has gone to regions of
light and knowledge, but the spirit if permit-
ted to watch over the body it has left will re-
joice that the remains, the casket, lies so pleas-
antly and peacefully.
	One of the things of which Atchison boasts
is the bridge over the Missouri river, one
which you may ride or walk or sail under. It
took a whole year to build it and it is cer-
tainly a magnificent structure. It is of wrought
iron, rectangular truss, stone piers; the bridge
is used for highway and railway triffic and
sidewalk for travelers. It has a drawn span
328 feet long, giving 160 feet clear water.
There are four piers and two abutments. The
pivot pier circular 46 feet in diamater, and the
other three piers are 25x52 at the base 9x26
feet at the top. It is said to be the finest
bridge on the river. Churches, there are many.
The Catholic church and convent are magni-
ficent and the adjoining grounds most highly
cultivated are a great adornment to the city.
Many other elegant Churches, Academies and
residences, fine hotels and business houses.
	We were interviewed there by newspaper

[Column 2]
reporters who all thought it remarkably strange
to see a woman who believed in the practice
of plural marriage. However as the papers
were quite courteous and complimentary to
us personally and just on our question, we
are grateful to the editors and feel that they
are men who love justice and hate hypocrisy
and deceit. We were very sorry not to be
able to stay any longer in this beautiful city
but the best of friends must part, and go at
12.10 a.m., at the grand station at Atchison we
bade a sad adieu to our beloved friends, and
took the night train for Omaha; so as to lose
no time, arriving at 8 a.m., and at 12.15 took
the Union Pacific for Ogden, on our return trip.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS OF MRS. MAY WRIGHT
SEWALL.

	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, of Indianapolis,
chairman of the executive committee next de-
livered an address which for argument, wit
and eloquence would challenge comparison
with the best efforts of our public men. She
held the audience enchained for an hour and a
half, and we only regret that any report for
which we have space must be meagre and pro-
saic in comparison with the flood of proof, per-
suasion, sentiment, humor and pathos which by
turns characterized this masterly speach.
"Now, I say," she began, "that there is no
argument that can be found in Burke or Jeffer-
son (referring to what Mr. Poppleton had said)
which gives to the right hand of American
manhood the ballot, which does not logically
give it to woman—or, if it denies it to woman
would not exlude men therefrom. If these doc-
trines mean anything they mean as much for
me as for any man. I am a person—I was born
within the jurisdiction of the United States,
and subject to it and to that of the state in
which I reside. The tax-payer passes by my
property no more than any male citizen; I am
amenable to the criminal laws the same as any
male fellow citizen. The women of every state
and city are citizens on the street, at the police
station, in the jail, even on the scaffold—why
are they not citizens on election day at the
ballot-box? Logically and abstractly the
women of the United States have the abstract
right to be citizens at the polls. But gentle-
men tell me that we do not live in a world of
abstract principles; but that in this concrete
world it is not what is right, but what is ex-
pedient that must decide the fate of every
new measure. Now that which is right is, by
necessity of its righteousness, expedient; and
naught can be expedient which in itself is not
right. But I will meet you on the basis of ex-
pediency alone. I will consider such objec-
tions as I have encountered only in Nebraska.
Indiana men are much more prolific and in-
genious in objections than Nebraska men.
	Mrs. Gougar (interrupting): Mrs. Sewall,
I think, underrates the capacity of Nebraska
men, because she has been here only ten days;
I have found them quite as prolific in objec-
tions as Indiana men. (Laughter.)
	Mrs. Sewall: Well, be that as it may,
here are some of the arguments I have encoun-
tered. The first is, that a class not having the
physical strength to execute the laws should
not make them. Now it strikes me that the
gentlemen who produced this objection could
not with very good effect have carried a
musket. It must have been originally made
either by a boy who had just celebrated his 21st
birthday party (at his mother's expense) or by
a man who had passed his allotted three score
and ten. But this is a republic in which we
live, and what is the meaning of a republic?
It means a government which rests not on
physical strength alone, but purely and solely
on majority opinion. To make a republic
humanity must be developed sufficiently to re-
spect the right of opinion. The republic needs

[Column 2]
not the sword and the gun, except for its pre-
servation as a state. Three times, indeed, we
of America have fought it out by physical
strength. But, though that be so, is it still a
fact that fitness for war is the condition of the
exercise of citizenship? Even if that be so I
am still able to vindicate our right. The
physical statistics of the war—two of the eight
volumes of which are issued—show at the be-
ginning out of every 1,000 men called on to
bear arms 278 were exempted; while in the
later stages of the war, after the first enthusiasm
had passed, and the government proceeded by
draft, 385 out of every thousand were exempted
—a full one-third, from beginning to end—on
account of physical capacity. If this rule were
applied then it would disfranchise one male
elector in every three. But there is another
page in military service—that which records
the deeds of women who throughout the war
gave up their lives to their country. More
than 100,000 women actively participated in
the war in camp, hospital, and field, and the
majority of them faced the dangers of the field
unweaponed.
	But in Nebraska I have found a most touch-
ing fear in regard to the purity of the women
who shall vote. [Laughter.] When confronted
with this danger, I ask to see the statutes which
make purity and uprightness in men the con-
dition on which they shall vote. [Applause.]
Gentlemen, first apply this rule to yourselves
and then you may apply it to us. But is it
not always true that those who participate in
the first results of any great popular movement
are those who carried it on to consummation?
Was it the fallen women who first raised this
demand for the ballot? Nay; it was the
Lucretia Motts, and not the Magdalens of
Philadelphia who began the movement, and it
was not the Magdalens of New York and of
Boston who rallied about Lucretia Motts; but
whatever was at that time best in womanly cul-
ture and character, and later what was best in
social position—these it has been who have
taken up the work begun by those pure and
noble women; and to day, the learned, the wise
and the good of the nations of Europe rise up
only to prostrate themselves at the feet of the
woman (Elizabeth Cady Slanton) whose honors
everywhere abroad are those of a Queen. And
here in Nebraska, as I find, it is not the fallen
and degraded who have come forth to welcome
me. What excuse have the women to give
who come late to our meetings? They come
not from wicked orgies, but from gatherings of
the Christian temperance women, from meet-
ings of Sunday school teachers, from commit-
tees of local literary clubs—these are the women
who are doing the work for suffrage and for
equality before the law in Nebraska (great ap-
plause.) But granting that bad women come:
—I to-day have learned from one of our even-
ing papers that even bad women have a very
elevating effect upon public men. To-day was
"Ladies' Day" in our police court, and this re-
port informs me that the judge appeared on
this occasion with a clean dickey and collar!
(Laughter). Now if bad women have such an
effect on your judges what may we not expect
of them on community at large? But I have
heard a most profound reason why bad women
will alone come to the polls—because, I am told,
the good women won't! But what do the re-
cords show concerning those who ask for the
ballot? Among all the literary women in this
country there are just three who declare that
they will not vote; while in the long lists of
women engaged in works of philanthropy,
charity, and moral reform, not one name ap-
pears in protest; these are our suffragists—
everywhere, the women who were foremost in
every good work. But, says another, the
ignorant women will vote. Ah, this is distres-
sing! it is agonizing! But where, will you in-
form me, is the statute on Nebraska's books


[Column 1]
that makes intelligence in men the condition of
franchise? Were that condition made, the re-
sult, I am glad to say, would be less disastrous
in Nebraska than in any other state, for the
census shows that you have less ratio of illit-
eracy than any of your sister states. But, in-
sisted a noted clergyman, the illiterate women
and the unvirtuous women will "vititate the
polls." Here is an item of news, indeed,
worthy a place in your press reports!
	But, says another, it won't do to have woman
suffrage in Nebraska—not that it is not right
enough, but it involves such a waste of time;
the wives would merely duplicate the votes of
their husbands anyhow, daughters of their
fathers and sweethearts of their lovers. But it
naturally suggests itself that there is such a
state of harmony in Nebraska, let us have the
the vote by all means, if for no other reason
than to illustrate the harmony. [Laughter.]
But another said that not a Nebraska woman
would vote as her husband does. But if there
is so much intelligence, and so great intel-
lectual liberty in the homes of Nebraska as
this statement involves, no harm can surely
come from the ballot; it would then become a
safety-valve; the wife who votes against her
husband has simply neutralized the vote she
doesn't believe in, and there is no further
ground of quarrel over a mere difference of
opinion. [Laughter and applause.]
	But, objects another, it is not because the
women do think or do not think just like their
husband's that I oppose woman suffrage, but
because none of the women want to vote. This
certainly shows a remarkable deference in the
male voter to the opinion of those who have no
political influence. But perhaps the woman
who doesn't want the ballot has never been
frankly asked whether she does; perhaps the
husband's ridicule, scorn and contempt have
prevented a free declaration. When I hear
men saying that they are willing that women
should vote, but they do not wish it and there-
fore they (the men) will not vote for the amend-
ment, I say that I respect the ballot too much
to make plea; not on this gound, but because
you frankly do not believe in woman suffrage,
should you vote against it. For such an ex-
pression of individual conviction, and not for
the puerile plea urged, do I have respect.
[Applause.]
	Again, I hear it objected that your pure
wives and daughters must not be brought down
into the mire of politics. My father, and
brother, and husband, have always voted, and
they stand there in "the mire of politics" with
unsullied feet, and with a pure heart and clean
hands. But if politics be so base, who made
it so? Whatever their conditions are they are
conditions of manhood's making. But this is
the old argument of the ages—to keep woman
subordinate, not tyranically but in ignorance.
This argument, 'til within a few generations,
kept women from the table with men—kept
girls out of schools, and it kept women out of
the professions and trades. Why, then, did
God send boys and girls in the same family?
The struggle in Boston over the admission of
girls to the public schools was reounted; and
it is only within ten years that they have en-
tered the Latin schools with the boys, nor have
their morals been corrupted. And now, at
last, everywhere, women have entered the
schools, the professions and the trades, they
have become the queens of the social world,
and what has become of their purity and mod-
esty, what do American men who have traveled
abroad say? That nowhere in all the world are
there found such women as America's women
—[great applause]—nowhere such purity with
such freedom; nowhere is so high a price set on
virtue, and nowhere are the homes of the peo-
ple so well admired. What makes it so?
It is the air of freedom which we, women and
men of the new world have breathed in this

[Column 2]
home, in the school, in the working occupations
and in society—the only atmosphere compat-
ible with the highest virtue. Why fear for its
health should we go to the ballot-box with
you? [Great applause.] After referring to the
objections that the ballot would destroy dom-
estic felicity—that it could not help having a
bad effect on women—and others of the same
character, the speaker asked what is it that has
made the American citizen great? Is it our
great rivers, mountains, plains and forests?
Nay, it has been the consciousness of his indivi-
duality and of the right to his individuality.
The outward conditions are good; they do in-
deed help to develop the man, but not till the
institutions of freedom have given him capacity
to develop himself. If the franchise makes
man more self-helpful and self-respectful will
it not have the same effect on American
women ? Shall we not, like you, grow in dig-
nity and self-respect ? In reply to the objection
that woman has no real reason for voting, the
speaker said that man claimed the need of it to
protect his property and his occupation.
Woman, it is true, has less property than man;
but as I need it, the less I have the more need
that I be able to protect it. But women as
well as men have industrial interests. In place
of seven anti-domestic occupations thirty years
ago the women of Indiana now have fifty-eight,
and those of New England have 85; and in
Indiana 21,000 women make their living in
productive industries. If there were but 21,
000 men in Nebraska who thus made their liv-
ing, would they not need the ballot as much
as do the 90,000 now?" In conclusion the
speaker pictured the delight that would reign
in women's hearts when they could stay at
home and enjoy protection in their sphere by
enjoying their rights outside of it. We want
the ballot to protect us in that sphere, what-
ever it is. Ex.


80	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOMESPUN LETTER.

TO MRS. HANNAH T. KING.

	Do you know Sister King, my girls and I
thought we would run in and see you a few
moments, and tell you while we are here, how
much comfort, yes, real comfort, we have taken
in your contributions to the EXPONENT. We
are kind of plain home-bodies, and not very
good at giving expression to our joys or sor-
rows. You know how it is with us; we have
never used ourselves to giving praise. But,
dear sister, we would like to give you a hearty
hand-shake, along with our gratitude, for your
kind and helpful words. The girls were just
saying, before we came in, that they think, we
as a people, are too slow, or too careless, at giv-
ing praise aud encouragement to those who
have nobly earned it; meaning chiefly, in liter-
ary labors. As I replied to them, we could
never estimate the amount of good the soul-
inspiring lines from E. R. Snow, the cheering
sweet sentences of Aunt Em., and your own
pure ennobling words have done the women of
Utah. And so we came on a happy errand,
to voice our thanks to you, our Woman Friend.
Will you let us say, continue your labors, for
sure, sure is the reward, and while we know,
many will come with hearts full of sorrow, to
lay on your grave the immortal wreath of fame,
let us lay our simple flowers at your feet, that
you may, perchance, be cheered on your daily
road.
	And now good-by ! But before we quit your
home, let us leave with you one heartfelt God
bless you ! God bless you, Sister King!
	N. B. Just to see how many "girls" live in
Utah, who fully echo these sentiments, I wish
all who do, would forward their names on a slip
of paper to the Office of WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
to be given to Sister King as souvenir.
							HOMESPUN.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS.
BY special request of MRS. E. R. SNOW SMITH,
Dr. ROMANIA B. PRATT
Will commence her class in Obstetrics, November 1st,
1882, in her office over Godbe & Pitts' Drug Store. Lec-
tures, three per week for five months. During the course,
Drs. Anderson and Benedict will each deliver six prac-
tical lectures. Fee for course, $30.00; former stu-
dents, $20,00; books (3), $12,00, Manikin, skeleton, in-
struments and plates for illustration. Please send or-
ders for books early, as they have to be ordered from
the East.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORC[-]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders fro[-]
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAP[-]
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

