VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1882.	NO. 3.


﻿AN IDEAL.

Here is my home ! Far down below me lying,
	The city spreads its stream of busy life
Unto my watching, dreaming eyes replying,
	Banishes loneliness and hushes strife;
Sense of companionship without its sighing,
	Hearts' rest from scenes with vexing questions rife.

Just within sense of life's sincere endeavor,
	Just within sight of arts' creations rare,
So comes the life draught welling up forever,
	As breezes wandering through the sunbright air,
Gather the freshness from the flowing river
	And scatter perfumes culled from every where.

Mountains that yet are white with winters snowing,
	Shut out the far world from my blest retreat,
Out through their riven side a stream is flowing
	Chanting a psalm the rocky walls repeat,
Till in the valley with warm sunlight glowing
	Breaketh its voice to ripples low and sweet.

Sheltered from winds, adown a dimpled hollow,
	Earliest suns have waked the leaves of spring,
Here comes the robin and the glancing swallow,
	Here comes the lark to build her nest and sing,
And here as soon as bud and perfume follow.
	Loiters the butterfly on idle wing.

Here is my home, low-roofed against the sweeping
	Of winter winds that spend their strength in vain,
Here may I listen, wakened from my sleeping,
	Close overhead the music of the rain;
And with the morning light a welcome keeping,
	Flowers are crowding 'gainst my window pane.

Here are my trees, each has its sep'rate meaning,
	These were for shelter, these for beauty brought
From far and near my search was long in gleaning,
	Those most befitting the eyrie I had sought,
Drawing from out my fancy's farthest screening,
	The real living picture hero is wrought.

Here come the few—one is not long in finding
	Those who will deem it worth their while and care,
To thread the pathway up the mountain winding,
	Catching the rapture of the upper air,
Worship and joy, with sacred friendship binding
	In a sweet charm the soul may inly wear;

Here come the loved, the dear ones who've departed,
	Softly their arms my drooping form entwine,
Here come the sacred, great and noble hearted,
	Softly their spirits cheer and beckon thine;
Have I been dreaming? Hide the tears that started
	Ah! would that this ideal home were mine.

						AUGUST JOYCE CROCHERON.
	June 10, 1882;


[Column 1]
WOMAN IN POLITICS.

Says Dryden;

"Speech is the light the morning of the mind.
It spreads the beauteous images abroad,
Which else lie furled and shrouded in the soul."

	"Speak that I may see thee," said the old
philosopher. The heart utters its secrets when
the tongue or pen is in motion. As the full bucket
betrays the condition of the water in the well,
so speech as a rule declares the person, the
inwardness, the intent. I have a few fugitive
ideas, whims peradventure, that are clamoring
for expression. But how to put them in proper
shape bothers me. Your paper is proverbial for
lively and entertaining articles, and I do not de-
sire to mar its good repute. Bear with me while I
give a few items, for like one of old "I will also
show mine opinion." I will speak of woman
as a factor in governmental affairs.
	Sovereignty under proper regulations, an
just limits belongs to the American peopl
whether as States, Territories, and all subdiv

[Column 2]
ions thereof, or as individuals. This is no new
theory, nothing out of the usual methods. It
proposes no new ideas in political economy; for
in reality there is no undiscovered truth in that
economy. Simplicity is the invariable charac-
teristic of truth. Error loves to hide her de-
formity in complicated envelopments. But
truth is open as the day, its language is direct
and plain, its precepts are irresistible in force.
The elementary principles of whatever is most
valuable to mankind are distinguished by sim-
plicity. This is true of all the arts that
embellish life, and discoveries that enlarge the
field of human happiness. This is essentially
true of government.
	In a Republic the natural equality of man,
the right of the majority to govern, their duty
so to govern as to preserve inviolate the sacred
obligations of equal justice, are its elementary
propositions. It has been wisely said that "The
world is governed too much," too many statutes,
too many subjects legislated upon. First of
man's political interests and most essential is
good governments; few laws well administered
will answer all needful purposes. They must
be impartial however, both in enactment and
execution. The penal interdictions of the law
must not be thrown across my path to hinder
me from a course that another may pursue with
safety. Happily these great principles are
enunciated, in the immortal Declaration of
Independence, and in the Constitution of the
United States by Washington, Adams, Jeffer-
son, Madison, Jackson, and a host of others,
fathers and defenders of the Republic. Suf-
fer me to insert a few good words from Presi-
dent Jackson. "It is in a plain system void of
pomp, protecting all, and granting favors to
none, dispensing its blessings like the dews of
heaven, unseen and unfelt, save in the beauty
and freshness they contribute to produce, that
the people will find happiness and their liberties
protection."
	The whole theory of our government is based
upon impartiality and universal equity, hence
all partial legislation tends in its results to be
subversive of just government, and prejudicial
to the vital principles of civil and religious
freedom. The rulers of a former age were re-
primanded by the great Law-giver as follows:
"Therefore have I also made you contemptible
and base before all the people according as ye
have not kept my ways, but have been partial
in the law." God's ways are ever just. Crime is
the violation of proper penal laws. Law is a
moral obligation binding on the subject,
obligations arise from benefits received. In
other words law is a necessary relation between
cause and effect, just laws protect me in my
rights, I owe them obedience and honor, ac-
cording to an old saying, "There is no right
without its duties, and no duty without its
rights." True government will tend with a
constant influence to equalize the external con-
dition of mankind, perfect equality indeed is
not within the reach of human effort.

Order is heaven's first law, and this confessed,
Some are and must be greater than the rest.
More rich, more wise."

Strength must ever have an advantage over
weakness, sagacity over simplicity, and wisdom
over ignorance. This is according to the
ordination of nature, and no institutiou of man
can repeal the decree. Pardon the digression,
for I find I am like the preacher, who made
three points in his discourse, 1st. took his text,

[Column 3]
2nd departed from it, 3rd never got back to it
again.
	In the opening remarks it was stated, that
words are the expression of the mind, the cloth-
ing of thought, as a rule they have definite
significations. All admit this, all agree the
terms man, mankind means women as well as
men, in religion, science, literature and song;
everywhere and at all times. Children implies
boys and girls, and in their amusements and
innocent plays are precisely alike. On one
point, however, we do not see eye to eye, and
that is in the high towering domain of politics.
Here we enter upon holy ground, here we must
take off our shoes and tread lightly, here we
must drop half the brains and half the heart
of the nation, for in political lingo man, men
means exclusively the "lords of creation." And
as a necessary corollary governments derive
their just powers from the consent of the mas-
culine gender, and women have no rights pol-
itically, that the house of lords are bound to
respect. Words rightly interpreted however,
in politics, as well as religion, give woman her
just rights, and when things are done by com-
mon consent, she is included as a party to the
transaction. When the Savior says, He will
draw all men unto him, "he who believeth and
is baptized shall be saved—and Paul—"God
wills all men to be saved." Do they mean
exclusively men? I think not. Else Paul
made a mistake when he said, "the man is not
without the woman in the Lord."
	A monarchy may prescribe woman in her
rights, and perhaps survive, but a Republic
cannot afford to let half its intellect and
morality lie fallow. Her assistance is needed
in public affairs. Circumstances and vocations
create distinctions, where originally equality
prevailed; or "as the original organization, is
to the circumstances with which we are sur-
rounded, so will be the character and qualifica-
tions compounded out of both." A kind of
moral rule of three. I maintain this axiom,
which I think cannot be successfully con-
troverted. That morally woman is the best,
intellectually equal, physically lower, spirit-
ually (as a mass) higher. If this is correct
shall the better element be politically sub-
servient to the worse? It may be said that the
great affairs of the world have ever owed their
origin and development to man, that he shapes
the destinies of the race. I do not concur in
the sentiment, but were it so, may it not be said
that woman shapes the race. "Is not the
foot that rocks the cradle, the hand that rocks
the world," and does not an eminent writer say
truthfully, "That in France there has not been
a single great, good or bad, thing in politics in
literature or in art, which has not been inspired
by woman." What is true of France, is to
some extent true of other nations; women have
been good rulers, and filled creditably promin-
ent positions. We read of the queen of heaven
(is the position merely nominal) and by parity
of reasoning other offices there are held by wo-
man. Honorable women, implies more than
merely moral qualities, it signifies rank, pos-
ition, office. In Utah, Wyoming, and to a
limited degree in other places, women hold the
elective franchise, and to some extent are
entitled to hold office. The new Constitution
of Utah has made quite an advance in remov-
ing her disabilities; but the end is not yet, the
interstices that admit the rays of light into our
political theory are enlarging, and soon the full
light of day will be shining upon us. The


[Column 1]
mere right to vote, to help others to obtain
office, is far short of political freedom; as the
word white has been stricken from our Con-
stitution, so its "twin relic" will go down
to the tomb of the capulets, and in a discriminat-
ing political sense, be no more called to mind.
But it may be said that if equal political rights
are extended to woman, she will be ambitious
and clamorous for office, verily not so. The
past and present of her career establishes
clearly the reverse, What is the testimony of
Wyoming? What is the testimony of history?
What is the testimony of her native inherent
modesty? With very few exceptions, her
noble impulses, her womanly instincts have
shown, that she is neither presumptuous nor
aggressive; "that man may safely trust in her,
for she will do good and not evil all the days
of her life." "Strength and honor are her
clothing, and she looketh well to the ways of
her household, her children arise up and call
her blessed, and her works praise her in the
gates." I am so much of a Democratic Republi-
can, that without any partial interdictions, I
can safely trust in the primary and caucus
gatherings to select suitable candidates for the
respective offices to be filled. It surely does
not argue very strongly for mens' genius and
courage to be fearful, that woman with so
many odds against her, will out general him
and get away with the most important offices,
and those too that she is not capacitated to fill. 
Some men profess to believe that a few Latter-
day Saints in the Rocky Mountains, if let
alone, will revolutionize and bring the world
to bondage or grief. I think there is no danger
in either case. Give woman and the Mormons
their equal and just rights and privileges, and
the Republic is safe, society will not be demor-
alized, the world will be made happier and
"liberty will be proclaimed throughout all the
land to all the inhabitants thereof."
	Theocracy gives woman her true position for
under that rule all things are done by com-
mon consent. She has the right to vote and her
vote counts equally with the greatest ruler. 
She also possesses the right to hold office, and
does she not fill the position creditably? In
all the relations and duties of life, we may not-
withstanding our egotistical notions still cherish
the unpopular view that woman is a helpmate
to man, that "it is not good for him to be
alone," either spiritually or temporally, that
in the family, social, religious and political
circle she is a co-worker. Does she not even
fill an important place in war? Archidamia,
Veturia, and Joan of Arc., are not the only
heroines, who have said, "Deliberate not
whither we are to fly but what we are to do."
And who by their powers and encouragement
have saved armies and cities. Was not her
services in the late war, between the north and
the south very essential, and how many under
God owe their lives to her tender care, and in
the mobbings and drivings and travels of the
Latter-day Saints, what a record written and
unwritten of her noble daring influence and
help. But is she only a helpmate in difficulty
and distress? Can it only be said of her

"When pain and sickness clouds the brow
A ministering angel then art thou."

This is indeed true, but is this all the truth? Is
the domestic relation of wife, mother, daughter,
sister all? Is this her acme of advancement,
to be a servant? Or does she stand side by
side with man in the professions, in literature,
on the platform, stage, in the social circle, in
poetry and song. The restrictionists say, that
it is because of their high regard for women,
that they would keep her out of politics, that
the political element would degrade her, that
it is demoralizing, and instead of elevating,
would place her on a lower plane. I am fully
aware that politics is at rather a low ebb, in
many parts of the country; and particularly in

[Column 2]
large cities and thickly settled places; is in fact
in the slums of degradation, and that this too
has been brought about by man's management. 
If under the complete control of man for so
many ages, it has attained that condition,
what assurance have we of improvement with
the present directors? Would not wisdom sug-
gest the introduction of a new element in the
body politic. It certainly would make it no
worse. I hold that neither sex alone is com-
petent to rightly control the political destiny of
the whole. It is by uniting them that the best
results are obtained. God intended man and
woman to supplement each other, and no
system of government can be perfect till the
divine theory is carried out. The caucus must
be elevated by the introduction of women, to
the equality of the parlor. Society with its
culture and refinement, is always above politics
in its moral tone. The world is full of exam-
ples illustrative of the refining influence of one
sex upon the other. Half a dozen girls will
rescue a whole university from rowdyism, while
a few boys are sufficient to train a girls' school
to refinement. This law of mutual restraint
and influence is general, and politics must be
brought within the sphere of its operation, if we
would purify the political atmosphere.
	Politics being the science of government
properly it is a point of education, and children
ought to be taught its principles and precepts,
and learn its nature and powers. Woman is
the early trainer of the infant mind. She gives
the first inpressions, and to do so successfully
should understand well the theory and practice
of the subject; especially is this needed as the
mind expands, and begins to reach forth and
gather up fruits of knowledge that are strewn
here and there, about its feet. It is said how-
ever that if woman becomes a politician, it
will be likely to lead to family jars and dis-
cords, that one may be a republican, another a
democrat, one a locofoco, another a whig; and
that bedlam generally will be let loose. If that
is correct reasoning, "Ignorance is bliss. Tis
folly to be wise," and the less woman knows
the less she will oppose. But we are not in-
formed why it will apply to politics more
than to any other intellectual acquirement,
religion, science, art, or literature. Is the
woman well versed in the great questions of
the day, less companionable because of her
general knowledge? In fact is not the reverse
true? Does not intelligence cleave to intel-
ligence, and tend to oneness, union, friendship?
Intellectual development, will not tend to dis-
cord, but will strengthen those endearing ties
that bind families, and communities together. 
In the foregoing observations the following
points are made to appear. The natural
equality of man including woman. The right
of the majority to govern. Their duty so to
govern as to preserve, inviolate the sacred
obligations of equal justice. That politically
things are done by common consent. That
governments derive their just powers from the
consent of the governed. That among the
rights held in common, are life, liberty, pro-
perty and pursuit of happiness. That the more
general the intelligence the greater the strength. 
That to have full power to exercise its proper
functions, governments must be seated in the
affections of the people. That privileged classes
or partial education, while portions are kept
in ignorance, is not conductive to union nor
strength. That the practice as well as the
theory of government needs to be enjoyed by
the people. That woman as well as man is
under God the arbiter of her own destiny. 
That constitutions nor laws can rightfully dis-
criminate because of sex; and that the field of
politics as well as science, art, literature and
the professions is open to man and woman, and
in fact in all the relations, and duties of life,
woman should be side by side, a co-worker with,
and helpmate for man. They belong to the

[Column 3]
same great family and their interests are iden-
tical and mutual.					L. E. H.
	American Fork, June 7, 1882.


18	WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿.


LIVE FOR A PURPOSE.

WRITTEN FOR THE PRIMARY.

	I wonder if we all realize what we were
placed on this earth for; what purpose the Lord
sent us here for, in these "the last days?" I
am afraid a great many of us are too apt to
think there is no higher aim on earth than to
spend all our time in seeking amusement and
recreation, instead of striving to gain all the
knowledge and wisdom that is to be obtained.
We should all live for a purpose; and have
some high standard of excellence to attain to,
before we leave this frail existence to go to
some higher sphere of action on the other side.
If we as a people fully understood the law of
the Lord as we should, I think we would all
try to do better, and seek to serve God more
fully than we do at present. That we may do
this, and strive to keep his commandments, is
the sincere wish of
						NELLIE SNOW.
Pine Valley, Utah, Jan. 3d, 1882.


FLOWERS.

	Could there be a more beautiful spot on
earth than our own mountain home at the present
time? The fragrance of the rose is wafted
along every breeze, and the very air is so fresh
and sweet that it would seem none of us could
inhale enough of its life giving freshness.
How charming the little cottages look, with
the honeysuckle and woodbine climbing
around the doors and windows! The house
plants are all alive with blossoms, from the
highly colored geranium, to the pale heliotrope;
while sweet faced children play among the
soft grass and many hued pansies, and peep out
of vine clad doors and windows as if to contrast
their bright blue eyes and rosy cheeks with the
flowers about them. Their sweet voices float
upon the air and join with the birds that chirp
and trill on every branch and bough. Flow-
ers brighten up the inert gardens and make
the poorest little room look bright and cheer-
ful. They bring new life into the sick room
and are the only tokens of remembrance to
our dearly loved dead. They are the sweetest
gift that love can bestow. They bring to us
thoughts of a holier and a better life, and by
their pale hues and sweet perfume seem to lead
us there. The loftiest poet has found in
flowers his sweetest songs. The lowliest peas-
ant in them has felt his chief delight. They
are the emblems of purity and love, and like
the flower of our being, the soul, if watched
and tended will each day develop newer and
purer beauties.
							BEATRICE.


AFTER the battle of arms comes the battle
of history.

	WOMEN at Work, a very ably edited mag-
azine, formerly published at Louisville Ky.,
will be hereafter issued from Brattleboro, Vt.
Success to the enterprise.

	MRS. Matilda M. Ricker has been admitted
to practice law in the court of the District of
Columbia. At the examination before the
committee of the Bar Association, Mrs. Ricker
stood higher than the nineteen men examined
at the same time. This speaks well for women,
as law is one of the professions in which it has
been said women could not excel.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 19﻿


HER DREAM.

	She lieth quietly; And o'er her silvered hair
The moonlight pours its vail,
Her clasped hands lie upon her breast—
For sleep hath closed her eyes.
And in her sleep the curtain of a dream
Hath lifted up:
And showed to her a room;
A room, both light and warm,
And filled with whisperers;
Who softly glide about with pity in their eyes,
	for her, the sleeper, as she moans with pain;
The sufferings keen; but as the dreamer feels the
	pang, she crieth—
No matter Lord, how much I bear,
So I may be a mother.
For she was childless.

	The watchers take the child when born,
And lay it to the mother's breast,
She feels the velvet hands and tiny face
Close to her heart, and as she does she murmureth,
My little baby, all mine own!
He belongeth not to some one else,
But is mine own! my very own!
Then as they take the child so that the mother
	rest, she chargeth them,
That they hold not the baby to the window
Lest he might suffer—
And as she gives the careful charge,
She feels her heart-strings thrill and quiver with the
	love-chords of sweet motherhood.

	The vision faded—God pity her!
And who but they who have felt,
The passionate wish for a little babe,
Can know the longing,
For such a dream to be fulfilled.

	But in eternity the bliss of motherhood
May be the greater and diviner to those who, in this life
Have known the emptiness
The weary lonliness of that word childless.

								HOME-SPUN.


[Column 1]
A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.

MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

Continued.

	Mrs. Horne has been one of the favored
ones who have had the privilege of entertain-
ing and waiting upon the Prophet Joseph, and
also his brother Hyrum, the Patriarch. At
the time the Prophet visited Governor Carlin,
Mrs. Horne was residing in Quincy. Although
the Governor received Prest. Smith very
courteously, yet he had no sooner started back
to Nauvoo than he sent an officer with a writ
after him, to bring him back to Quincy for
trial. While Pres. Smith was in the magis-
trate's court he told the officers if they would
permit him to go where he wished for the
night, he would be forthcoming at any hour
in the morning that they might name. They
made no objection and he went back to Mrs.
Horne's and informed her he came as a prisoner.
He was wearing light summer clothing and as
the next day would be Sunday he felt that he
would like a change of apparel; he asked Mrs.
Horne what he should do. She said, "I will
wash and iron your clothes to-night." He was
very unwilling to allow her to do it, think-
ing she was not strong enough; but, however,
she felt that it would be a pleasure to wait up-
on the Prophet—for indeed he was greatly be-
loved by the people.
	Mrs. Horne refers to this with great satisfac-
tion, and also to the blessing he left upon her
and her household when he went away, for
their kindness to him in his hour of need.
	In the month of March the Hornes moved
to Nauvoo, traveling by wagon over the then
wild prairies. The roads were very bad and
they were obliged to travel very slowly. They
were obliged to spend the night on the open
prairie, and Mrs. Horne describes it as a

[Column 2]
terrible night. The cows got loose in the night
and Mr. Horne was obliged to get up and go
back after them. Mrs. Horne says, "The night
was dark and the wolves were howling on
every side. I was in fearful suspense lest my
husband should be torn to pieces by the raven-
ous wolves. I watched and prayed until I
heard his welcome footsteps. How thankful
and relieved I was on his safe return! The
next night we arrived safely in Nauvoo. My
husband purchased a piece of land from Squire
Wells. It was situated on Mulholland Street,
about a quarter of a mile from the Temple."
	As there were no houses for rent, Mr. Horne
put up a lumber shanty, in which the family
lived about eight months. In this temporary
shelter from wind and weather Mrs. Horne had
another son born on the fourteenth of May
1842, and she named him Joseph Smith. There
were many inconveniences and annoyances
consequent upon living in such a rude build-
ing, but most of all there were rats and they
frequently carried away articles of clothing;
but worse still, sometimes bit the children.
One of them got into bed with the little babe
when it was about two months old and bit its
feet so that they were terribly inflamed for
some time.
	In the month of November Mr. Horne had
partly finished his house and the family moved
in, though it was by no means comfortable.
Mrs. Horne says, "Shortly after we moved, my
husband accidently cut a very deep gash in
his foot. He was laid up in bed for several
weeks. What a dreadful time I had dressing
his wound, taking care of my children, attend-
ing to my household duties, feeding horses,
milking cows and tramping around in the snow
looking for some one to chop my wood!" Yet
Mrs. Horne bore all these difficulties like a real
heroine, and a woman of God. There was no
complaint or repining, no desire to return to
to the world, where all things had prospered
with them; she remembered that in all ages
the Saints of God had borne persecution, and
she was willing to suffer, if need be, to secure
"a more eternal weight of glory" hereafter.
Mrs. Horne united herself with the Relief
Society, which had been organized by Joseph
Smith, on the seventeenth day of March pre-
vious to her arrival in Nauvoo. She became
much interested, at that early period, in the
elevation of woman, and has ever since advo-
cated, what is now considered one of the im-
portant questions of the age, "woman's rights."
The Saints became more prosperous afterwards,
sickness abated, Nauvoo was built up and
beautified until it gained the appropriate ap-
pellation of "Nauvoo the Beautiful." Mr.
Horne, through diligent labor and persever-
ance, gradually obtained the blessings of life
and succeeded in establishing himself in quite
a flourishing business, and his family were
looked upon by the Saints as quite well situ-
ated.
	On the second of April, 1844, Mrs. Horne
received "A Patriarchal Blessing" under the
hands of Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch of the
Church. She says the promises made to her
in that blessing are being daily fulfilled.
Among the many promises made to Mrs. Horne
in this blessing, was this one, which, at that
time, must have seemed a little remarkable,
"you shall have an inheritance upon the moun-
tains of Ephraim." This was long previous to
the exodus and our subsequent removal to these
mountain vales. There are many other things
spoken of in her blessing that it is easy to see
have been fulfilled, and that it would have
been impossible for Bro. Hyrum to know except
by the spirit of prophecy. This ought to be
convincing testimony to any who doubt concern-
ing a knowledge of the revelations of God to
his people.
	Mrs. Horne, like many other women, felt
most deeply the loss occasioned by the martyr-

[Column 3]
dom of Joseph and Hyrum. It is not possible
for those who never were acquainted with these
great and good men, to comprehend how de-
votedly they were loved and in what reverence
they were held by the people, nor how over-
whelming was the grief felt by the Saints at
their untimely death. Mrs. Horne says: "On
the twenty-eighth day of June I took my last
look on earth of Joseph and Hyrum Smith.
May I never experience another day similar
to that. I do not wish to recall the scene.
	Mrs. Horne was at that time in very delicate
health and on the ninth of July after, became
again a mother. This was her fifth son, and
was called Richard Stephen. Mrs. Horne was
very ill for some time after the babe's birth,
but finally recovered. In addition to her
household duties she spent much time in assist-
ing her husband in his store; it must be ap-
parent to the reader that she was a woman of
more than ordinary ability and tact, to be able
to keep house and attend to several little
children and still find time to devote to her
husband's business.

To be Continued.


﻿OBITUARY.

	With loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of Mrs. Elizabeth Clark Haws Tanner, wife
of Bishop J. S. Tanner, who died April 2d 1882,
39 years of age, the mother of 13 children, leaves
a husband and 5 children to mourn her loss.
Joseph E. Tanner, the eldest son, was called on
a mission to England at the April Conference
1881, was taken down with a fever and died on
the 22d of April, 1881, being 19 years of age:
after which Sister Tanner and the Bishop took
a trip to St. George, with part of their family
and did some work in the Temple for the living
and the dead. March 14th 1882, Sister Tanner
gave birth to a little girl. On the 19th of the
same month Annie Tanner White, died in Pro-
vo, leaving a husband and young baby, 11 days.
old. The fond mother not seeing her daughter
again in the flesh, and almost idolizing the pro.
mising son, that was taken to a better land,
when all ready for the mission, every day grew
weaker. The little baby dying also 5 days before
the mother.
	Sister Tanner was a devoted wife and mother,
kind and benevolent to the poor and all within
her reach. She was First Counselor to Mrs.
Elizabeth Lunt, who presided in the 3d district
where her liberality will be missed. She was
also Treasurer for the silk Association, Southern
District.
	We pray God our Heavenly Father to comfort
the bereaved husband, children and relations.
								M. A. H.

	At Calls Fort, Box Elder County, Utah; April
14th, 1882. Mary Wheately Whitworth, wife
of George Whitworth. Aged 44 years, 3 months
and 10 days. Deceased was born December 25th,
1837, at Hilkisten, Derbyshire, England. She
embraced the Gospel, and was baptized March
21st, 1854; emigrated to Utah in 1861, resided
from that time at Calls Fort to the time of her
death. She was the mother of 14 children, 10 of
whom are living. She was a devoted wife, a
loving mother, and a true and faithful Latter-
day Saint. Her husband, children and a large
circle of friends mourn her loss. She was the
First Counselor of the Relief Society of this.
place.

Farewell dear mother, we do not mourn thee,
	As one dead, but gone to rest.
From thy labors and thy suffering,
	With thy kindred to be blest.

							MARTHA ALLEN.


20	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Connell
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	—	JULY 1, 1882.


[Column 1]
AN INTERESTING TOUR.

	We have just returned from a tour through
Sevier and part of Piute Counties, in the interest
of womens' organizations, and also the Deseret
Hospital. We left this city on Wednesday
morning June 14, accompanied by Mrs. E. How-
ard. Our immediate destination was Richfield,
where the Sisters' Conference of Sevier Stake
was to be held on the 16 and 17 of June, and
arrived in Richfield on Thursday evening.
Friday morning the Relief Society Conference of
Sevier Stake convened in the Bowery at Rich-
field, Mrs. Elizabeth Bean presiding; her Coun-
selors Mrs. T. M. Thurber and Mrs. F.
Spencer on the platform. Pres. Spencer of
Sevier Stake, and several Bishops were present.
Mrs. Bean conducted the exercises with ease
and dignity. The Presidents of the several
branches of Relief Society in Sevier Stake gave
verbal reports as follows: First and Second
Ward Richfield, Glenwood, Annabella Inverury
Monroe; after which the meeting was addressed
by Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. Howard Salt Lake
City, Mrs. E. Brown Pleasant Grove, and Mrs.
Lucinda Houd, Beaver.
	In the afternoon verbal reports were given
from Koosharom, Vermilion, and Redmond.
Sisters from Salt Lake City made some remarks
and Pres. Spencer in a few words expressed
himself well pleased with the reports and the
teachings of the sisters. Mrs. E. Bean and Mrs.
Thurber each gave some good counsel and the
officers of the central organization of the Relief
Society were unanimously sustained by the
Conference also the Relief Society officers of
Seveir Stake and the Presidents of the several
branches. Conference adjourned for three
months.		
	Saturday morning the Conference of Y. L. M.
I. A. Sevier Stake, convened in the Bowery,
Coun. Celia E. Bean presiding. Y. L. A., of
Richfield, Glenwood, Monroe, Koosharem, Jos-
eph City, Inverury, and Aurora, were severally
reported. Mrs. Wells and Mrs, Howard, ad-
dressed the young people on education, deport-
ment, spiritual culture, and politics; urging
the young ladies to study the laws of life and
health, to read good books, to acquaint them-
selves with history, and seek to obtain a general
knowledge of what is transpiring in the world.
Officers of the central board Y. L. M. I. A., were
sustained by unanimous vote, also Stake and
local officers. The Conference adjourned for
three months.
	Saturday afternoon the Primary Conference
was held at the same place. Coun. Lucy Bell
presiding. Verbal reports were given from most
of the Associations in the Stake, and several
exercises, consisting of singing, reading, reciting
and essays, were well rendered by the children.
A manuscript paper was read called "The
Primary Guide." This was a pleasing part of
the programme. The children were addressed
by the Sisters from Salt Lake, who encouraged

[Column 2]
them to diligence and commended their good
order and promptness in responding to the calls
of the President. The general authorities of
the P. A. were sustained by vote, alao the Stake
and branch officers. Mrs. Lucy Bell made a few.
remarks and Conference was adjourned for three
months.
	The next morning we commenced a tour of
the Southern part of the Stake. Bishop Joseph
S. Horne and Bro. Salsbury of Richfield accom-
panied the party, which consisted, besides these
two gentlemen, of six ladles. Meetings were
held at Elsinore, Joseph, Monroe, Annabella and
Inverury. Tuesday evening we returned to
Richfield, and on Wednesday morning started
with one team and Brother Thomas Butler as
charioteer, for Grass Valley, going by the way of
Glenwood, where we met with the people in the
school-house and then proceeded on our way to
Burrville the first settlement in Grass Valley.
We went through a portion of King's meadows,
green and beautiful, and leaving there traveled
through what is known as Bear Valley canon;
the mountain scenery was wonderful indeed,
and every moment one’s attention was attracted
to something marvelous or delightful. The
roads however were the roughest over which we
had ever journeyed, and the poor horses were so
tired and we so frightened that we walked over
the most difficult and dangerous places. Leav-
ing the canon with its flowers, shrubbery, trees,
and magnificent rocks in every form and color
we passed through dog-valley where the cunning
little prairie dogs peeped out at every turn.
About dusk we reached Burrville, as dusty and
weary as any travelers need be. Br. and Sister
Burr were extremely kind and we rested and
refreshed ourselves, and the next morning went
over to Cedar Grove, where the people from
three settlements were assembled at 10, a. m.,
and at 2. p. m. for meeting; at noon the tables
were spread in the bowery at the grove, and
the pic nic under the beautiful old cedars was a
most enjoyable affair. The wind was blowing
just sufficiently to make delightful music, weird
and enchanting, that to one in pensive mood
was most gratefully soothing, especially at the
approach of evening. The next morning we left
Grass Valley with two teams, accompanied by
Pres. A, K. Thurber, who seemed much gratified
by the visit of the sisters.
	The road wound round through diversified
scenery, so grand and imposing that it filled the
mind with a rich store of material for contempla-
tion; and to an admirer of nature’s charms and
mysteries it was an open book, which one might
spend years of time in reading. We went to
the extreme end ot what is termed Rabbit
Valley; and up among the red mountains of
solid rock. These are in every form and style of
nature’s architecture. One might easily imagine
them the ruins of old castles, fortresses and for-
tifications, and indeed to a vivid imagination
there were pictures of petrified soldiers, knights
in armor, ladies in the full costume of the an-
cient days, monks, and veiled nuns, and all the
appendages one could need to embellish these
same picturesque old ruins. One might term
these legendary rocks, and if the traditions of
the aborigines of these mountains are to be
credited, the legends would be quite as startling
as any of the orient. But one must not indulge
too far, and therefore we come down from these
flights of fancy, to facts as they do exist to day.
We knew this was a wild and desolate waste of
country, that a few bravo men, and heroic women
have partially subdued, by hard labor and the per-
severance of pioneers of the desert. Wherever
there is a green spot aud a little water, the peo-
ple have cultivated the ground and succeeded
by dint of hard labor and close application of
sinew and muscle, in making gardens and

[Column 3]
homes. The Saints in these valleys are feeling
well, contented and happy. Away from the
busy scenes of turmoil and strife, secluded and
at peace with all mankind, it was a pleasure
to meet with them and realize their condition.
One remark struck me forcibly, it was so in
contrast with the feeling expressed here at
home. It was that in Rabbit valley, they are
never pressed for time, they have any amount
of it. They have no idea of the hurry and bustle
of the town, so if any one gets out of time it
would be well for them to emigrate to Rabbit
valley where they are so well supplied.
	After attending meetings at Lea Freemont
and Thurber, we started on our journey home-
ward, by way of Fish Lake. The day was fine,
the scenery beautiful, and the tall aspens
quivered, and shivered, and glimmered in the
sunlight. The Lake is certainly one of the
most beautiful sights, and those who have visit-
ed Switzerland say it is like a veritable Swiss
Lake. The water is a magnificent blue, and
changable, and the green islands dotted with
cattle grazing, completed a perfect picture. We
remained just long enough to rest and feed the
horses, and eat lunch under the tall pinion
pines, and then left the lake and all its inspir-
ing beauty, to pursue our toilsome way over
the rough mountain roads; where we revel in
upper air sufficiently light to make one dizzy.
Bluebirds, robins and pretty brown birds too,
caroled forth their sweet songs in the cedars and
pines.
	Two young eagles perched themselves on the
high rocks by the roadside to take a look at us,
and sailed off over our heads. On our way home
we held meetiugs at Vermilion, Aurora, Selina
and Redmond. At the last named place we
said good bye to the good sisters and brethren of
Sevier Stake, and turned our faces homeward.
Hon. A. K. Thurber and Judge George W.
Bean gave us all the information we could wish
relative to the settlement of the country by our
people, and also Indian traditions and legends
which were very interesting indeed. We have
brought home pleasant remembrances of our
tour and the many kindnesses and courtesies of
the Bishops in the different settlements, and
the brethren and sisters generally.


OVATION TO THE OLD FOLKS.

	The 28th of June was devoted to an enter-
tainment in the Tabernacle in this City, for the
aged people from this and all the adjacent
counties. The invitation was extended to all
over seventy years of age without distinction.
The exercises in the Tabernacle commenced at
10 A. M. On the stand were Presidents John
Taylor and George Q. Cannon; Apostles Wilford
Woodruff, Erastus Snow, Franklin D. Richards
and John Henry Smith; Coun. D. H. Wells,
Patriarch John Smith, Bishops Edward Hunter
and R. T. Burton; Prest. Angus M. Cannon and
Coun. Joseph E. Taylor, Mayor Jennings, Capt.
W. H. Hooper. Croxall's silver band, American
Fork brass band, Ogden brass band, and the
Fourth Ward Ogden band. Several of the old-
est veterans were seated on the Bishop's stand.
President Taylor presided over the assembly.
After singing by the Tabernacle choir, prayer
by Prest. Woodruff; there was music by Croxall's
band, and Mayor Jennings delivered an address
of welcome, followed with music by the Ogden
brass band and speech by Prest. Taylor, and Prest.
Cannon; The Lord God Omnipotent reigneth,
was then sung by Miss L. Nebeker, Mrs. E. L.
Grow, Messrs. W. H. Foster and J. Morgan.
	A recess was given and a thousand sacks con-
taining cakes and candy were distributed to the
old people. The bands played and W. C. Dun-
bar performed upon the Scotch bagpipes.


Bishop Edward Hunter, who is in his ninetieth
year, addressed the congregation. Mrs. L.
Careless, with her wonderful voice, sung "Dear
Heart We're Growing Old." Prof. Daynes per-
formed a fine solo on the organ and Br. Dunbar
sang "My Old Wife and I." The Primary
Association then presented to each of the old
folks over seventy, a bouquet of flowers artistic-
ally arranged. Mrs. Susan Leveridge aged one
hundred years, the oldest lady in the assembly,
was introduced and bore her testimony to the
latter day work. Those over seventy were then
invited to a free entertainment in the theatre.
"At the close of the services Prest. Taylor said:
I want to offer this proposition; that we will aid
in maintaining the liberty proclaimed in the
early days of this Republic, when upon the bell
that was tolling in Philadelphia was written:
"Proclaim liberty throughout the land and to all
the inhabitants thereof." All who are in favor
of sustaining the principles that were then
enunciated, hold up the right hand." Choir
sung an anthem. Benediction by Prest. G. Q.
Cannon.
	The 29th of June, the old folks assembled in
Liberty Park, where all needful preparations had
been made for their comfort and happiness.
Bands were playing at intervals, a platform had
been erected, festooned and ornamented, and
streamers were floating with the stars and
stripes and also some with the names of the
several states and territories. A pavilion had
been built that would accomodate about eight
hundred persons seated at tables. None but
those over seventy were allowed to be sealed at
the first table. The dinner was furnished by
the Relief Society of the several wards in this
city and adjacent wards. and many beautiful
young girls flitted about helping to serve the
aged people. The tables were literally loaded
with good things, and ornamented with flowers.
It is estimated that there were fifteen thousand
people on the grounds. At 11 o'clock the
audience was called to order and singing and
prayer were the first exercises, Elder George
Goddard moved that Elder C. R. Savage take
charge of the proceedings of the day, and it
was announced that a general hand-shaking
would be the first thing on the programme.
The Juvenile martial bands of the city number-
ing seven bands were consolidated into
one, Prof. Beesley in charge, and played some
airs on the stand.
	There were a large number of prizes of differ-
ent kinds distributed to the very aged people,
and the scene was one of great interest. Sougs
were sang and a few short speeches were made,
all congratulatory to the aged veterans. Every
one seemed to be "having a good time," and
there is no doubt that it was a most enjoyabls
affair. The arduous labors of the committee
should be fully appreciated by the people, for
they certainly succeeded in making it a com-
plete success.
	Red, white and blue were the colors worn by
the old people. A bow of red ribbon designated
those over seventy but not yet eighty, over
eighty and not yet ninety a bow of blue ribbon,
and for all over ninety a rosette of white ribbon
was the distinguishing mark. Liberal donations
were made by the citizens to the affair and those
who had carriages and teams contributed to the
comfort of the visitors, by taking them from
the depot to the Tabernacle, the grove and back
to the station, on their return home. This was
one of the grandest affairs that has ever been
celebrated in Utah. Respect to the silver greys
is always beautiful and honorable, and is sure to
meet the approbation of heaven.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 21


IT costs more to avenge wrongs than to bear
them.


DESERET HOSPITAL.

	In our last issue we gave the organization of the
Deseret Hospital Association. The circulars are
now ready, containing the rules and regulations
of the Hospital, and will be distributed in the
different Stakes as quickly as practicable. One
of the provisions of the articles of association
provides that each Relief Society and Mutual
Improvement Association shall contribute one
dollar every month to assist in meeting the
current expenses of the Institution. This pro-
position is sanctioned by the First Presidency of
the Church, and by the Presidents of the Asso-
ciations, and while the sum required from each
Society is very small, yet in the aggregate if
punctually paid by all the Associations, will
form a staple fund upon which the managers
may draw to meet such contingencies as cannot
be provided for by the earnings of the Institu-
tion. The Medical Board have sent to New
York for a full supply of the very best surgical
instruments and hospital supplies, and in its
medical equipment the new Hospital will not
suffer at all by comparison with those that have
had a longer existence in the community.
	The medical staff is composed of members of
the profession, who have already won the re-
spect and confidence of the public, and whose
professional standing is a guarantee of the
success of the new enterprise in the department
over which they preside. Dr. Ferguson brings
to aid her in filling the position of resident Sur-
geon, to which she has been appointed, the ex-
perience of twenty years in the profession, sup-
plemented by an extensive acquaintance with
all kinds of Hospital work, gained during her
recent visit East under the instruction of the
most eminent surgeons in New York. The
members of the visiting board Dr. S. B.
Young and Dr. W. F. Anderson are gentlemen
who have no superiors in this Territory in pro-
fessional skill, social standing, and every attri-
bute that qualifies them for success. They have
the interests of this people at heart, and will
spare no effort to make the Hospital prosperous
in all its departments.
	Dr. Pratt is well known to all our people, and
has made a specialty of diseases of the eye and
ear, in the treatment of which she has had and
doubtless will have marked success. We hope
the Latter-day Saints will appreciate the efforts
that are being made to establish this Institution,
where those who are sick and injured will have
the best medical and surgical treatment, and
nursing that can be afforded them, together
with the inestimable privilege of the free admin-
istration of all the ordinances of the Church in
their behalf, and that they will sustain it by
their faith, prayers and good works. It was ex-
pected that the Hospital would be opened
on the 20th of June, but circumstances
have arisen through the parties occupying
the building not moving at the time agreed on,
but it is hoped that it will be in readiness on the
10th of July, and will be dedicated by the First
Presidency of the Church as soon after as prac-
ticable.
	All comunications in reference to board or
treatment, to be made to Dr. E. B. Ferguson the
resident physician, by mail or personally. The
school of Anatomy will open about the middle of
July.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE article entitled "Woman In Politics" in
this issue is well worth the attention of all our
readers and we trust those who are working
for woman's advancement in the world will
notice such remarks, coming as they do from a
man, and one who has sat in the Halls of the
Legislative Assembly regularly for more than
twenty years.﻿

[Column 2]
	Childrens Fair of Davis Stake, at Farmington.
on Tuesday and Wednesday 27th and 28th
under the dirrection of Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers,
Prest. of the Primary Associations of that
county. Mrs. E. S. Clawson Prest. of P. A.
Salt Lake Stake and her Counselor Miss Julia
Druce with thirty children from this city went
up to the Fair. They were met at the Farming-
ton depot by the Juvenile martial band, who
escorted them to the Court House where the
Fair was held. A great variety of useful and
tasteful articles were on exhibition, the work of
the little boys and girls; which showed their in-
dustry, tact and skill, and gave promise of much
talent and industry to be utilized in the future.
The day was a pleasant one and the Fair a com-
plete success. The afternoon was spent in the
grove, a little distance away, in play and pas-
time.
	MISS Ada Dwyer, daughter of James Dwyer,
Esq., returned on Saturday evening, June 10,
from the East. This estimable young lady has
been absent 10 months, the greater portion of
which time has been spent in Boston in the
study of elocution, under the most noted elo-
cutionists, she has finished her studies with
unabated assiduity and has made the most sat-
isfactory progress. On Monday evening, the
9th inst. she gave an entertainment at the
Theatre, which was attended by a very select
and appreciative audience. She gave 4 selec-
tions, showing her versatility; but in that from
Henry the viii. displayed most marked ability,
her power of conception and execution was a sur-
prise her friends. The entertainment was varied
by choice music, and was a success in every par-
ticular. On the evening of the 3d of July, the
young lady will appear with the Home Dramatic
Club, taking the leading part in "Blow for
Blow."
 	OUR honored delegate, George Q. Cannon
returned home on Wednesday evening June 21.
The event was made the occasion of special.
demonstration which must have been gratifying
to the distinguished gentleman. He was met
at Ogden by a large party, from this city, of his
brethren who welcomed him home. At that
place a large number of citizens assembled, with
the brass band of that city, greeted him. At
the settlements on the way down he was also
greeted with similar demonstrations. At Salt
Lake, a large crowd assembled and a couple of
brass bands—the 10th and 11th ward bands—
played as the train came in. Brother Cannon
moved among those gathered at the places men-
tioned, shaking hands with them, and receiving
their congratulations. On the Sunday following
he spoke in the Tabernacle to a large congrega-
tion, and referred to the progress of the
Edmunds Bill, and the refusal of the House of
Representatives to give him his seat. He said
he felt cheerful over it, and that persons in
Washington who met him said, "You are the
most cheery man I ever saw, for what you are
passing through." Brother Cannon said he had
assured them by saying, "why should I not feel
cheerful? I have a larger majority than any
man on the floor of the House," Prest. Taylor
closed the services by speaking in praise of Bro.
Cannon's course, and on his motion, the cause,
of our delegate to Congress was sustained by a
unanimous vote of the congregation.
	LIBERTY PARK was formally opened on Satur-
day, June 17, with appropriate exercises. The
day was beeutiful, and quite a lengthy procession
formed in front of the City Hall and marched to
Main Street; thence down to 5th South, thence
east to the street leading to the center of the
Park, and directly south into the Park and
around the drive of the grand stand, where the
City Officials and invited guests dismounted
and took postions. The programme consisted of


Music, Croxails Silver Band, "Goblins," reading
of the resolutions relative to the opening of the
Park by Deputy Recorder H. M. Wells; song,
"Hall Smiling Morn," Union Glee Club, dedi-
catory prayer, Alderman A. H. Raleigh, Music,
'World's Great Jubilee," 6th Infantry Band,
Speech, T. B. Lewis; Music, "Pepelo Galop,"
Beesley's Martial Band; song, "Comrad es in
Arms," music, Glee Club; Speech, Ben. Sheeks,
Esq.; Music, "Col Bush Mont," Croxall's Band;
toast by Mayor Jenings, "The President of the
United States," response by Gov. Murray; toast
by Gen D. H. Wells, "The Army and Navy of
the United States," response by Gen McDowall
McCook; toast by ex-Mayor Little, "Pioneers of
Utah," response by Hon. Wilford Woodruff;
toast by Hon. Wilford Woodruff, "The Hon-
orable, and City Council of Salt Lake; response
by Mayor Jennings. The 6th Infantry band
then played, "The Dent Let Lure," and Mayer
Jennings declared the Park opened, and the
procession re-formed proceeded back to the City.
Liberty Park is a delightful spot already, and
with the improvements now contemplated will
yet be as peaceful and delightful a park as any
city can boast.


22	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
COMMENTS.

BY ONE WHO KNOWS.

Continued.

	Prof. Coyner, it seems, acted as reporter at
the Ladies' Mass Meeting held in the Theatre,
which, as he says, was one of the most remark-
able meetings that has ever been known
since the one in the garden of Eden, where a
woman was the chief speaker. "When I was
a young man," he says, "I read a book entitled
'FIFTEEN YEARS AMONG THE MORMONS;' I
was led to believe, from what I there read, that
the women of Utah were held by the men in a
kind of captivity, not being able to escape from
their degradation,	*	*	and I supposed that
as soon as the railroad, with all its non-Mormon
influences, had reached Utah, the most of the
women would gladly embrace the opportunity
of fleeing the country, to escape thraldom; but
in this I was much mistaken." This is a
fair example of the ignorance and preju-
dice under which the outside world are labor-
ing. One might suppose that when he (Coyner)
found himself so much mistaken in this that
possibly there might be other reports equally
false about the Latter-day Saints. The same
writer says: "One of the arguments in defense
of polygamy is that it is the only preventive of
the social evil.	*	*	*	But is this true?"
We answer, yes. He continues; "If it is a fact
that plural marriage does tend to develop a
virtuous state of society, does cherish and pro-
tect the sacred rights of confiding woman, does
throw a holy and sanctifying influence around
the home circle, does contribute to the bring-
ing up a well-trained, noble offspring: then the
Mormon church is justifiable in asking the
Christian world to sanction and adopt that
which produces such glorious results."
	We can testify, from experience, that this is
a fact; but, he says, "The ones who have the
best means of ascertaining the true condition
of things, in this respect, in this Territory say
that, for the same population, there is more
private prostitution and more illegitmacy in
Utah than in any other part of the civilized
world."
	"The Mormons claim that no brothel existed
in Utah before the advent of the ungodly Gen
tiles. I admit that such was likely the cas
for the very construction of Mormon socie
obviates the demand for such establishments
	This, I think, is plain enough to our unde
standing, requires no comment. "Being

[Column 2]
religious fanatics," he says, "they have now
come to the point in their growth and power
that they feel justified in throwing down the
gauntlet before the American nation, and their
battle cry is 'polygamy or death.'	*	*	*
There are thousands of women in Utah who,
if they dared do it, and if they felt it would
do any good, would crowd as many assembly
rooms and give utterance to as many strong
sentiments in denunciation of the home-des-
troying system. as have the advocates in its
favor, but the latter are with the priesthood,
the controllers of society; while the former are
so crushed by the dominant power as to
have no positive influence."
	We know just about how much of this story
to believe. There may be a very few women
of this class in Utah, but they could not say
and tell the truth, that they were ever deprived
of the right to speak, and act as they pleased
except it has been by their own husbands, as
women in the world are, of which I think he
would not complain. In proof of this we
refer our readers to some two years ago, when
the woman's bill was pending before the Legis-
lative Assembly, a few of our brethren became
quite alarmed at the thought of woman step-
ping out of her place, and possibly they
thought take into her own hands the reins of
government, and some few lost their equilibri-
um and said some very unreasonable and pro-
voking things about the sisters. Previous to
this I had felt no particular interest in the
subject of woman's rights except to vote, as I
had always done, since the privilege was gran-
ted us and was then among the most quiet and
reticent, but with a deep sense of the wrong
that had been done to those noble women,
who were only asking for their rights, which,
for centuries past, have been usurped by the
"lords of creation," I, like many others, felt
righteously indignant, and in the heat of the
battle of words, returned fire with out fear or
favor.
	This, by-the-by, was my first attempt at writ-
ing for the public, and Sister E. B. Wells add-
ed the following appropriate title, "A Content-
ed Wife." I know that it breathed the true feel-
ings of thousands of women outside of "Mormon-
dom," but who would not dare to utter them in
words.
	People can prate all they please about "Mor-
mon" thraldom, but if they want to see women
who enjoy true freedom, let them come to Utah.
	The writer admits that he has been treated as
a gentleman should be, by the Mormons, since
he has been in the Territory; but still he and
his co-workers feel it their duty, as loyal
Christian citizens, to publish all that they can
gather up from apostates, and wicked design-
ing persons in our midst to arouse the feelings
of the whole world against us, fearing that un-
less something is done quickly they will be
overpowered by what he calls the "Modern
hierarchy." After a very abusive harangue
Prof. Coyner declares to the American people
that "if something is not done soon to stop
this law-breaking, law-defying fanaticism,
either our free institutions must go down be-
neath, or with slavery it must be wiped out in
blood." He supposes the "Mormons" to be
"very bitter against the government," who
"when the opportunity comes will not hesitate
to draw the sword and fight for their religion."
	This we admit is a very natural conclusion,
and we know that the Latter-day Saints are
the only people on earth who would stand what
they do without resistance and showing fight,
and what could they do that would be a strong-
er proof of their sincerity than the follow-
ing.
	He says, "I have often wondered why the
Mormon people submitted to such dictation on
the part of the priesthood—There is no other
church whose leaders would thus dare to rule
its membership, and if the population of Utah

[Column 3]
was made up of the average American, the
yoke of the Mormon hierarchy would soon be
thrown off; but coming from the Old world the
Mormons have been so long used to obey the
dictation of those over them, without gainsay-
ing, that they now submit without a murmur
and even kiss the hand that rivets the chains
that bind them."
	The reason why there is "no other church
whose leaders would thus dare to dictate its
membership," is very obvious, this being the
only true church that has received the priest-
hood; and for his information we will just say
that the first ones who submitted to its power
were "Americans," and that although many of
the old veterans are worn out and have passed
off from this stage of action they have left be-
hind them some true and honorable represent-
atives, who expect to live and take part in
the great battle for freedom; and, to secure
this end, we intend to battle "honestly, man-
fully and patriotically," and "we want no
cowards in our band," but only those who will
remain true, not only to our religion, but to
our nations flag and bear it off triumphantly.
	But no stain of blood will be found upon
the hand of a Latter-day Saint for Truth is
our Battle axe, and though crushed to earth a
thousand times it will rise again, and at last
triumph over the wickedness with which this
earth is daily filling up her cup; while those
who only live to propogate and send adrift
their mischievous lies to bring destruction upon
an innocent people will have passed away as
chaff before the summer wind.
	The yoke of the priesthood is very easy,
and our burdens far lighter to bear, than is the
thought of submiting to the chains which they
are preparing to place upon the necks of men
and women who only claim the same rights
and privileges which are guaranteed to every
American citizen.
	 As the "Mormons" pioneered to these Rocky
mountains and have no intention to leave, if
Prof. Coyner with his delectable co-workers
feel themselves contaminated by our influence
would it not be just as well for them to "move
to some sea-girt isle" and leave the terrible
"Mormons" to themselves to "solve their prob-
lem?" or "if they could be surrounded by some
triple wall" that would confine their modern
christian influence to their own borders we as an
"American people," would be more than will-
ing.
	There are two or three extracts from discus-
sions delivered by President Brigham Young
and Heber C. Kimball in the Bowery in 1856
and 7 upon which (like all the rest) they have
put their own constructions. These are under
the heading of "Blood atonement."
	President Young says, I want all the people
to say what they will do, and I know that
God wishes all his servants, all his faithful
sons and daughters, the men and women that
inhabit this city, to repent of their wickedness
or we will cut them off."
	Now in this he had no reference to "blood
atonement." He was only speaking about the
unrighteous members who were like dead
branches that should be cut off from the
church. Then said he, "I could give you
logical reason for all the transgressions com-
mitted in this world," and after teaching some
the laws of God, as were taught by Jesus Christ
and which we believe will eventually be put
in force he said, "The time will come, and is
now nigh at hand, when those who profess our
faith, if they are guilty of what some of this
people are guilty of will find the axe laid at
the root of the tree, and they will be hewn
down. What has been must be again, for the
Lord is coming to restore all things."
	The Latter-day Saints look upon hanging as
a most barbarous practice, for it deprives the
criminal and even a murderer of the only
atonement left him that he can possibly make


for the shedding of blood and out of mercy
opportunity is offered them to make their
choice, to be shot or hung. The following is
taken from this same discourse of President
Young;
	"Any of you who understand the principle
of eternity, if you have sinned a sin requiring
the shedding of blood  except the sin unto
death, would not be satisfied nor rest untill
your blood should be spilled, that you might
gain that salvation you desire.
	"I do not feel vain, but I feel to say breth-
ren and sisters lay aside your vanity and your
feeling to exult; there will be a time when
you can exult and do it in righteousness and
mercy. There will also be a day when you 
will be brought to the test﻿—when your very
hearts and your innermost souls will melt with-
in you because of the scenes that many of you
will witness. Yes, you will be brought to the
test, when you will feel as if every thing with-
in you would dissolve. Then will be the time
you will be tried, whether you will stand the
test or fall away.
	"I have no doubt but there will be hundreds
who will leave us and go away to our enemies.
I wish they would go this fall; it might relieve
us from much trouble, for if men turn traitors
to God and his servants their blood will surely
be shed, or else they will be damned, and that
too according to the covenants.
	The test has now come and the scenes which
they predicted are to be realized, and if the
ones who have laughed and mocked at their
prophetic words and also those who are now
threatening destruction upon the servants of
God do not repent, they will be found among
the ones to whom the Lord will say "Ye have
set at nought all my counsel and would none
of my reproof. I also will laugh at your
calamity: I will mock you when your fear
cometh. When your fear cometh as desolation,
and destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when
distress and anguish cometh upon you. Then
shall they call upon me, but I will not answer;
they shall seek me early but they shall not
find me; "For that they hated knowledge, and
did not choose the fear of the Lord."
	I fail to see wherein the truth can injure
this people. We know that there are evils
among us therefore let them be brought to
the surface that we may be cleansed from them;
for it is our daily prayer that iniquity may be
purged out from our midst, for we are aware
that the net gathereth of all kinds, and the
dishonest and corrupt who are filled with envy
"daily toil with lying tongue to make the noble
seem mean as himself." Of such we wish to be
relieved, as they are a detriment to society and
a clog in the wheels of progress. "Mormon-
ism" has stood the test for over fifty years,
and, as Professor Coyner says, "If it can stand
the test, the professed claim of inspiration,
God's peculiar people, etc., may be accepted."
We are more than willing to be measured by
this standard. "The tree is to be judged by
its fruits.”


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 23


﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
			REPORTS.

		ST. DAVID, ARIZONA.
	Our Relief Society held the third annual
meeting April 18th, 1882. President Cyrena
Merrill presiding; after the usual exercises of
singing and prayer the financial report was
read for the year ending May 4th, 1881. Cash
on hand at that time, $7.30. Donated to
Society, $21.40. Property on hand, $37.50.
Disbursed, $8.00. Cash in treasury, $14.00.
Total $88.20.
	Much good instruction was given by Elder
David P. Kimball, his Counselor D. J. Merrill
and Patriarch T. C. Merrill. They felt proud
of the sisters, for they were doing a great work
and gave much good instruction. The health
of our people is good, as a general thing; we
desire an interest in the prayers of all faithful
Saints. We pray for success to all your en-
deavors in the advancement of Zion's cause.
			Cyrena Merrill Prest.;
			Esther Merril, Secy;
			Maria McCrae, Secy. pro tem.

			PAYSON.
	Dear Sister Wells:—We thought, as a Re-
lief Society, we would show, through the col-
umns of the EXPONENT, that we are alive in
Payson. Many good faithful sisters doing all
the good they can, with our President and
Counselors, to cheer and bless the daughters of
Zion. We feel thankful to Sister Snow, your-
self, Sisters Taylor, Felt and Howard for the
refreshing visit we had from you last fall. The
good counsel and heavenly influence will be
felt by us, we hope, till you again honor us
with a visit. Many good faithful testimonies
are borne, thanking our Father in heaven for
our homes in these mountains. If the outside
world pity us for being so deluded, we pity
them in their ignorance. The EXPONENT ever
is a welcome visitor with us. Many familiar
faces have been taken from our midst by
death; seemingy we could not spare them.
Among the number was our beloved Sister
Tanner, whose obituary our President Mrs. B.
J. Simmons and Counselors Sister Agnes
Douglas and Mary Moore wished inserted in
the EXPONENT.
			SUMMIT
	Quarterly Conference of the Primary, Par-
owan Stake, held at Summit, May 7th, 1882.
President Mary Durham presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises the min-
utes of the last Conference were read and ac-
cepted.
	President Mary Durham then expressed her
gratitude to the Almighty for the great im-
provement being made by the rising gener-
ation, and felt to say with the Savior, "suffer
little children to come unto me and forbid
them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven"
she them encouraged them to come forward
with their songs and recitations, which they
promptly did.
	President Jones then gave some good in-
structions to parents, upon their duties to
their offspring, as they are the future pillars
of Zion and should be taught every principle
of morality day by day, that they may have
power to see the difference between good and
evil. He then blessed every organization per-
taining to the reign of peace and righteous-
ness upon the earth.
	As Spring has advanced so has the health of
the people of this settlement improved, and
now the apple, the peach and the plum trees
are loaded with fruits; the fields look green,
promising a bountiful harvest to the farmer,
for which we thank the Giver of all good.
Let us learn what is right and do it for the
love of righteousness. Let us send our child-
ren to school where they are taught the prin-
ciples of the Gospel that will enlighten their
minds, and enlarge their understanding, and
prepare them to stand before the enemies of
truth. Let us make our calling and election
sure by our every day walk and conversation,
that no one can bring a railing accusation
against us.
		ANN ELIZABETH WEBSTER,
				Stake Secretary P. A.
Cedar City, June 7th, 1882.
			WALLSBURG.
	Primary Conference held at Wallsburg May
26th, 1882. Prest. Glenn presiding. Singing
"Open the door for the children." Prayer, by
Master M. M. Duke. Singing, "Joseph Smith's
First Prayer." Minutes read and approved.
Verbal report given by the President.
	Programme: reading, by Sister Glenn; Bible
stories, by Polly A. Lamb and S. Workman;
recitations, Clinton C. Boren, Susie Gardner,
Janet Gardner, Ida V. Boren; dialogue, Annie
Gardner, Annie Boren and Wm. Camp; songs,
S. Workman, Maggie Camp, Abbie Lamb and
Jane Lamb; dialogue, Isabelle Kerby, M. M.
Duke and Wm. Greer. Appropriate remarks
Bishop Wm. Nuttall, George Dabling and
Prest. Glenn.
	Singing, "In the chambers of the Mount-
ains." Benediction by Annie Gardner.
	The Primary also held their first FAIR
which was a credit to the President and child-
ten. Articles on exhibition were quilts, mats,
tidies cushions, aprons, mottoes, dolls, hats,
bands, pictures in water colors, cakes, pies,
puddings etc. One little boy made a set of
quilting frames and presented them to the
President, with some verses composed for the
occasion. We also had a dancing party in
the evening. 		Sarah Glenn, Prest.
				Lucina Boren, Cor. Secy.
		GRANTSVILLE.
	The Ladies conference of Tooele Stake was
held in Grantsville, at the Meeting house
Saturday and Sunday, June 10th and 11th,
1882. Mrs. M. A. Hunter presiding. Present
on the stand from Salt Lake City, Sisters
Phebe Woodruff, Presendia L. Kimball. After
singing, prayer and singing, minutes of the
last Conference were read and accepted. Sister
Woodruff gave some very good instructions to
both old and young, she alluded to her long
experience in the Church forty-seven years;
cautioned mothers about setting a good ex-
ample, made some explanations in regard to
the Deseret Hospital, and spoke of the great
need which existed of an institution of this
kind. Mrs. M. A. House read the circular to
the congregation, which explained in detail
the condition of the affair.
	Sister P. L. Kimball spoke of the Hospital
and the desire of the Sisters of the Relief So-
ciety to do good to all those who needed assist-
ance  of the young people. The time was
mostly occupied in bearing testimony; some
good instructions were given.
	Sunday afternoon: After the administering
of the Sacrament Sisters Woodruff and Kim-
ball addressed the congregation, in a very
pleasing and intelligent manner. Prest. H. J.
Grant gave very good instructions encourag-
ing the sisters to diligence in all good works;
spoke most favorably of the Hospital, and said
he felt sure the sisters would accomplish what
they had undertaken. Prest. Grant also re-
ferred to the labors of the sisters in storing up
whear, and made other good remarks. Confer-
ence was adjourned until the 27th of August
next, at Tooele City.		ANN TATE.
			WEBER STAKE.
	Thursday, June 8, 10 a. m. Conference
opened with the usual preliminaries. After
a few opening remarks by Sister Jane S.


[Column 1]
Richards, Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith spoke
of the things of the kingdom; exhorted
the sisters to cling to the things of God and
walk in the paths marked out by the servants
of the Lord. Edifying remarks were also
made by Sister Zina D. Young and Bishop
Robt. McQuarrie, after which the conference
adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Thursday, 2 p. m. After singing, and
prayer by Sister Zina D. Young, the meeting
was addressed by Elder Orson H. Eggleston.
	Sister Ellen McBride, of Eden, said she had
been absent for some time at St. George, where
she had the privilege of laboring in the Temple
and administering for those who had passed
away. There are a great many who stand
alone in the Church; all her father's house
were against her, still she took great delight
in worshiping in the House of the Lord.
	Sister Sarah Richards felt that they were
all on a great mission. She knew this was
the work of God, she knew it by the power of
the Spirit. She knew that all must be tried,
for the Lord has said He would have a tried
people. She advised the Saints to continue to
love each other and to be humble and faithful
to the end.
	Sister Higbee had been a member of the
Church forty years, and knew that it was the
kingdom of God. This people are preparing
the way for the second coming of Christ. She
referred to many of the teachings of the late
President Brigham Young, and advised the
sisters to reduce them to practice.
	Sister Sarah Knight made a few interesting
remarks on various subjects, and bore a strong
and fervent testimony to the truth of the work
of God.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith addressed the
conference in her usual instructive manner.
She spoke of the disasters that are taking place
in the world, and the blessings which have at-
tended this people since they have been living
in these valleys. She spoke of the establish-
ment of a hospital at Salt Lake City, and
showed the need of such an institution and
the benefits of which the Saints can avail them-
selves in cases of necessity. She also spoke of
home industry and many other useful subjects.
	Sister Zina D. Young followed. She spoke
of the duties of the Saints; cautioned them
against grumbling and fault-finding, to look
after the household duties, not to be selfish in
the things of God. She also advised the
Saints to be cheerful, trust in God, and look to
him for strength and guidance.
	After a few remarks from Bishop B. C.
Critchelow, the general and Stake authorities
of the Relief Society were presented and
unanimously sustained, and conference was
then adjourned.

YOUNG LADIES.

	Friday, 10 a. m. After singing and prayer
the Secretary read the reports, which were ac-
cepted.
	Sister Richards addressed the meeting. She
said President Herrick was absent on a visit
in the East; she had received a letter from her,
in which she spoke of the conference, and
prayed that the blessings of the Lord would
rest upon all who took part in it. Sister
Richards then reported the Second Ward.
	Reports were also given of the First and
Fourth Wards, Plain City, West Weber,
Huntsville, Hot Springs, and Riverdale.
	Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, President of the
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Societies
in the Territory, then addressed the meeting.
She was much pleased to meet with them in
Conference, to hear the reports, and to see the
good spirit that was manifested by the presi-
dents of the different wards, and the deep in-
terest they evinced in the welfare of the soci-
eties which they represented; felt glad that these
associations were organized and were in so

[Column 2]
flourishing a condition. She then gave much
good instruction in relation to monthly and
other meetings, and of the proper decorum
that should be observed by the Saints, while
in the house of God.
	Mrs. Dr. Ferguson made a few excellent re-
marks; gave an interesting account of her visit
to the East.
	After a few closing remarks by Sister E. S.
Richards the meeting adjourned.
	2 p. m. Sister Minnie Snow, President of Y.
L. M. I. A., of Brigham City. We all have
superior qualities and those that we term weak-
nesses, and our daily life is a perpetual war-
fare between these; urged upon the young
ladies to fill every position to which they were
called. She said if they could be president of
an association one month they would realize
how hard it is for the officers to be always
urging and coaxing the young sisters to do
those things which they know are right and
profitable.
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson expressed herself pleased
to see so large an attendance and wished to
emphasize the remarks of Sister Minnie Snow
in reference to a prompt and faithful fulfill-
ment of those duties assigned to them. She
spoke of the Deseret Hospital in Salt Lake
City, gave an account of the organization and
read the circular which is now ready for dis-
tribution in the different Stakes of Zion.
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke also on the im-
provement of time and recommended the Hos-
pital to their faith and prayers and works.
	Sister Zina D. Young spoke very earnestly
to the young ladies upon cultivation of the
beautiful in every thing, but hoped they would
not imitate the grosser fashions of the world.
She referred to their influence upon their
associates, the young men in particular with
whom they could do far more in persuading
them to do right than even their fathers and
mothers and the Elders of Israel. She gave
some very valuable hints about health and the
proper care of our bodies. In the Hospital
young ladies would have an opportunity, if they
wished, of learning to become good nurses and
thus prevent much sickness.
	Sister E. R. Snow Smith was particularly
pleased to see some young sisters, Presidents
of the Y. L. M. I. A., rise in the morning to
give their reports with babes in their arms.
She did not feel it right that the young sisters,
when married and raising a family, should ex-
cuse themselves from all other social duties.
The care of the children is a mother's first
duty, but it is not all her duty, and no one
needs the spiritual sustenance and strength im-
parted by these meetings more than young
mothers. She exhorted the sisters to attend to
Sister Ferguson's instructions and suggestions
about speaking and reading; would also urge
upon them to learn to spell correctly. Good
spelling was one of the most important requis-
itions in education; without it good reading
or writing was impossible.
	Sisters D. H. Perry, and Elder W. R. R.
Stowell made some remarks.
	Sister Josephine West gave notice of the
Primary Conference. Sister E. S. Richards
made a few remarks, and adjourned the Con-
ference for three months.
	Singing, "Lord dismiss us," etc. Benediction
by Sister. E. B. Ferguson.


24 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1[
	A MEDICAL college for women has recently
been established in Baltimore Md.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.

[Column 2]
AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAL AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROATS AND LUNGS,

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
