Vol. 11.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1882. 		No. 8.


OASIS

There are shady nooks in the world's highway,
Were we rest from the heat, and dust of day,
Where the grass and flowers spring fresh and bright,
And the fountains sparkle like gems of light.

Where weary ones may stop and think
O'er life's deep lessons, and, while they drink
Of the peace that reigns in this haven dear,
Find happy respite from pain and fear.

It is well, for life's object had ne'er been won,
For the soul would faint ere the day was done,
And the pilgrim staff be laid aside,
Ere half way over the desert wide.

If the aching feet could find no rest,
Nor the heart with songs of joy be blest;
For though the rose may have its thorn,
It cannot of its sweets be shorn.

But God is good, for the light and shade,
The bitter and sweet, his hand hath made,
And dealt in portions just and fair;
Showing a wisdom deep and rare.

So there is no desert but hath its spring,
And its shady trees where the sweet birds sing;
Sometimes 'tis a weary way and long,
That the path is devoid of tount and song.

But oft when we think it is sorrow all,
A gleam of light o'er the way will fall,
And a hope spring up, so bright and fair,
That is banishes darkness, doubt and care.

Let us seek those bright spots we may find in life,
If we lose them not in the blinding strife:
For they're planted along from life's rising sun,
'Til the work us ended and heaven is won.
								Hope.


BOOKS, LETTERS, AUTHORS.
BY HANNAH T. KING,
	The mind experiences a sort of dizziness
when throwing itself out to view, and as it
were, to grasp the world of books that have
been written for the instruction, edification, and
amusement of the human family!  Public
Libraries of ancient writers, containing fifty
thousand, or a hundred thousand volumes,
speaking to us out of the past ages with voices
that are immortal! then pass down to modern
times, and we find public libraries all over the
known world, with their volumes innumerable,
upon every known science. Biographies of
every notable character that ever lived, histor-
ies of all countries, travels of every description.
Then cme periodicals, in themselves an ocean,
flowing over all lands, and suited to every mind,
and their varied tastes; and newspapers, moun-
tains of newspapers-- some comprising a sheet
that would cover a small room, all for one
penny! issued every day, and in some cases
twice a day! they contain the news of the
world movements of nations; with their courts,
and crowned heads; every thing is now literally
"told on the house tops," how they look, and
what they say, and what they do; they are as
"a beacon set upon a hill that cannot be hid;"
their good deeds and  their bad are equally
blazoned forth ! food for the Newspapers, in-
formation of every sort is found in them; they
are the bulletin of the world, issued almost
every hour.  The Theatres with all their mag-
ical details, contribute a mighty quota of read-
able matter in the present day; the gifted Ris-
tori, and the no less marvelous Sarah Bern-
hardt, and Booth, and Irving, those two thril-
ling constellations at this moment in conjunc-
tion!  Making Shakspere live again every
night in all his own gorgeous glory of person-
ification of the passions of humanity in all their
mysterious working for good, or for evil; pre-
senting a mirror in which the "form and
pressure" of virtue is seen in all her glory, and
vice in all its frightful deformity, to be shunned
and hated.  Then the letters! since the blessing
of cheap postage was given to the public, every-
body has become a writer.  Rowland Hill, still
of blessed memory, was the first mover in this
great benefaction, and he never rested till the
penny postage was an established fact through-
out the united kingdom of Great Brittan.  The 
public became letter writers, every mind hasted
to correspond with its beloved ones, and with
its congenial mind; every one told its tale in
writing to the eye, and the heart that was 
panting to recieve it; every mother at once sat
down, and became a writer to her boy, or girl
far away; told them how  she loved,  and wound
up by giving Rowland Hill a mother's blessing,
for having opened up the way for every person
to communicate with the loved ones.  Let-
ters signed, sealed and delievered, all for one
penny.
	Well might that country raised a nable mon-
ument to that philanthropic man; who had
given the poor, such an untold blessing, and
they did so.  By his aid knowledge has spread
like water flowing over thirsty ground, and has
fertilized, and made productive, that which be-
fore lay barren and destitute, yet possessing
within itself all the germs of intelligence, of love,
of a yearning to communicate, and amalgam-
ate; but custom familiarizes, a new generation
has risen up, and the noble benefactor is almost
forgotten.  Yet, this penny postage was an un-
told benefaction to the English people--it
raised a highway for the communication of
mind with mind, by the aid of that tiny
instrument, the pen! and was an unseen, but
unsleeping power in spreading the principles
of the Latter-day work, over those favored
kingdoms.  Yes, favored is the word, for a 
mighty host heard and recieved, and continued
to live the life giving principles which it enun-
ciated; and which were often promulgated, fed, 
and kept alive by the "penny postage."
	The mechanic,  the peasant,  and the 
Village girl, became writers, that they might
expatiate upon a theme, that had raised them
to a higher platform than they had ever before
stood upon; it held before them a mirror in
which they beheld self, and with wonder and 
delight they rejoiced therein.  A noble monu-
ment has been raised to Rowland Hill, which
speaks well for the appreciation of the British
public.
	Now we must speak a few words for the 
authors of those worlds of books. Think of the 
mental labor that has produced those volumes
of intrinsic worth! of the sweat of the brain
and  palpitations of the heart, that this Her-
culean labor has occasioned.  How many eyes
gaze on those collossal libraries, yet never give
a passing thought to the minds that have pro-
duced them! but we will leave those tomes of 
wondrous lore, and consider the mental labor-
ers of our own times.  Again what immense
libraries, public and private, and the circulat-
ing libraries, books every where.  Intellectual
tables spread continually, dayand night with
viands suiting every palate, and every taste; we
could easily imagine ministering spirits waiting
round to hand to us our favorite Author; or be-
loved Poet, or venerated Statesman, or appreci-
ated philanthropist, the feminine and the mas-
culine are equally yoked in this galaxy of their
labors and their songs are Duetto for ever.
And as we enjoy the feast prepared for us, let 
us never forget the mental purveyors, whose
labor is often onerous, often ill paid, often
without money, and without price, though in
this day, fortunes have been made even by the
pen, and the public are appreciative; which
formerly was not the case.  When Milton's
"Paradise Lost," was scarcely noticed, and only
fetched fiftenn pounds ! since that time it has
realized its thousands.  Milton, Doctor John-
son, goldsmith, and a host of as great men
passed through poverty and neglect, and great
privations, to reach the pinnacle they attained,
and upon which they stand forever; for that 
which has immortailty within it can never be 
destroyed.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

In looking over  letters written by my
parents, during the days of my childhood, I
find recorded many a forgotten incident; some
of which are pleasing, and others painful to
dwell upon-bringing back the love and the
joy, the pain  the sorrows, that were shared
by them who have, long since, passed to a
haven of rest, where there are no more tears,
nor anguish and where the tears of death can
never come.
	One reminiscence serves to revive another,
and among other incidents is the following
which I will relate, with the hope that it may
prove beneficial to my young sisters, as it
came very near ending my earthly existence.
I believe it was in the early part of March in
1842; at all events my father and mother had
gone down to Quincy and left a young woman
with us, to take charge of matters and things
while they were gone. Before they returned
my eldest brother and myself were invited to
attend an evening party in the neighborhood
where we first settled, when the place was
called Commerce. Laying off my winter
clothing I put on a lawn dress and cotton
stockings, and thin slippers in the place of
boots, never giving a thought that it could
hurt me. I was wrapped in a good shawl but
as we drove in an open carriage, the cold bleak
wind pierced through to my vitals, and the
consequence was that I was thrown into
what was considered a quick consumption,
from which there was but little hope of my
recovery, though I was kept in ignorance of
my true condition until after the danger was
over. I was not sick in bed, but I looked
like a walking ghost, and it took but a few
steps to exhaust what little strength I had.
No pains were spared and nothing that affection
could prompt, or faith and skill accomplish
that was left untried, though I sometimes
noticed their anxious and careworn looks.
Early one morning in the Fall of the year
my father had William hitch up his horse and
buggy and take me up to the Temple, where
he met us. He took me to the Font under the
Temple into which the water had been pumped
the day before and there baptized me for my
health, which I regained more rapidly from
that time.


[Column 1]
 ﻿He was in the habit of taking me out riding
nearly every day, and soon after this he had
occasion to go quite a distance out on the
prairie to take Miss Lawrence home, who had
been doing some sewing for us. This was
Sarah Lawrence, who was sealed to the Prophet
Joseph. Father took me with them, and
though it looked a little cloudy when we
started, he thought wo could get back before
it would rain; but we had barely  got started
for home when it commenced raining. Father
put the umbrella over me, and told me to
hold it closely over myself and not mind him.
The thunder and lightning were terrific and
the wind blew and the rain poured in perfect
torrents, there was no house and not even a
tree to seek shelter under. He was really
frightened about me and drove as fast as it was
possible for the horse to run. We soon
reached Brother Winchester’s house, which was
near the outskirts of the town, but not before
our cloths were drenched through. Father
gave me into the charge of Sister Winchester
who gave me something warming, and I was
soon clad in some dry clothing, as well as him-
self. We remained there till the storm was over
and when we went home the roads were washed
smooth and we found that a heavy freshet had
passed over the lower part of the City.
 My father’s prayers and faith prevailed in
my behalf, for I never felt the least bad effect
from the exposure, which was truly miraculous.
This true story may prove, not only a warning
but a faith-promoter to our young friends, who
may chance to read it. 	
 There is another little incident which I had
missed jotting down in the right place. It
was near the first of June 1843, just previous
to my father’s starting East, that the Prophet
called and invited him to ride with him and
William Clayton, his private clerk, as he was
going around to give invitations to his friend,
to take a pleasure trip with him down to
Quincy, in the little “Nauvoo” boat which,
previous to its being purchased, was called
“Maid of Iowa.” I was also invited to go
along. As we drove up the river a Steamer
was just landing, and a number of strange
gentlemen came ashore, who seemed to have
quite a curiosity to see the Prophet. He got
out, and in his warm and genial way, gave
each of them a cordial shake of the hand. As
the carriage was about starting away, one of
them came up and, after being introduced by
President Smith, requested the privilege of
riding. After going a few rods the carriage
was stopped for him to get out. He wished to
have it to say that he had rode with Joseph
Smith, whom they styled the “American
Mahomet.”
 Our babe being very sick prevented my
parents from going and I went with my brother.
It was a lovely June morning, and animated
with the lovely airs, played by William Pitt’s
Bras band, every heart was made glad, and
every thing looked bright and hopeful for the
excursionists, as we started on the little Steamer
bound for Quincy.
 We had a most enjoyable trip down, took
dinner, with others, at the house of the widow
of Dr. F. G. Williams and his son Ezra, who
were old Kirtland friends. Joseph and his
wife Emma, and a score of his old, as well as
young, friends were made welcome by others
in that city. But on our return trip a heavy
thunder storm came up, and Judge Elias
Higbee being taken very ill we were obliged
to stop over night at Keokirk. The cabin
was small and the Judge being so sick the
majority stayed on deck, where we sat all night;
umbrellas being our only protection from the
beating storm. The heat had been very ex-
cessive, and being thinly] clad, many were
made sick, and I was among that number.
Judge Higbee continued to grow worse, and
only lived a few days after his return home.

[Column 2]	
 The Prophet, who was noted for his tender
sympathies towards the afflicted, could not rest
until he went around and informed himself of
the condition of each one who had accompanied
him to Quincy, and offer advice and some he
administered to. The morning of the second
day after our return, he called at our house.
He recommended some medicine to be given
me that night, and then turning to me said:
“To-morrow morning you take for your break-
fast only a cup of coffee and a piece of dry
bread, and you shall be well.” His counsel
was strictly adhered to, and the result was pre-
cisely as he had predicted.
 Before leaving us to go East my father
gave to his children (six in number) their
Patriarchal blessing, brother William Clay ton
acting as scribe. Father was very anxious
that mother should go with him and spend a
little time with their relatives; but she could
hardly make up her mind to leave home. She
accompanied him as far as Quincy. He wrote
three or four letters while on his way to Pitts-
burg, and a few extracts from their correspond-
ence may be of interest to others beside myself.
The following was written by my mother, and
directed to Philadelphia, as he was to have
been there, but unexpectedly he was detained
in Pittsburg. This was dated “June 27th,1843.
 My dear companion:— I received your
precious letter, and parcel sent by Brother
Smith. * * Gladly do I retire from the
busy cares of life to spend a few moments in
talking to you in this silent way. * * If I
could but see you for a few moments, how
much easier I could unbosom my feelings, but
yet I am thankful that we have this privilege
of conveying our thoughts to each other. I
have read your letter over and over, and my
eyes have been almost blinded with tears—the
feelings expressed therein are worth more to
me than worlds would be without them; for
nothing could make me happy without your
favor. It is one week last, Sunday since I
closed a letter to you. Brother Brigham then
expected to start the next day. * * There
are many changing scenes * * one moment
our bosoms may beat high with anticipation,
and the next be thrown into confusion. At
present there is great excitement in the city. 
Brigham told me this morning that he did not
much expect to go; said Joseph had sent word
to him not to go any way until he saw him. I
am thankful that you got away before the fuss.
I feel as though you were more safe than you
would be here. Oh that I could be with you!
I sometimes feel as though I had been foolish
and would never let another such an opportun-
ity pass without going with you. * I should
not wish to go, unless I could go with you clear
to the sea shore; but I need not talk abont it
now, for there is no telling where our lot will
be cast next, things look rather gloomy here at
present, but I believe good will come out of
evil. I will not attempt to tell you about
Joseph’s arrest, as Brother Hadlock, the bear-
er of this letter, can tell you all about it. *
 Since writing the above, I have had a visit
from brother Parley P. Pratt and his wife.
They are truly converted. It appears that
Joseph has taught him the principle and told
him his privilege, and even appointed one (a
wife for him. * * She has been to me for
counsel. I told her I did not wish to advise in
such matters. Sister Pratt told me that she
had been railing against these things until
within a few days past, she said the Lord had
shown her that it was all right, and wants
Parley to go ahead, says she will do all in her
power to help him. * * They asked me
many questions on principle. I told them I
did not know much, I’d rather they would go
to those that had authority to teach. Parley
said he and Joseph were interrupted before
he got what instruction he had wanted, and
now he did not know when he should have an,

[Column 3]
opportunity. * I told him that these were
sacred things, and he had better not make a
move until he got more instruction. * *
Sarah Noon is here and sends her love to you.
My daily prayer is that you may finish your
mission with honor, and be returned to our
embraces. * * I think you had better des-
troy this as soon as you can after reading it.
I should not dare to send it by mail, but I
trust it will go safe. If Brother Brigham
should go I will write again by him. I am as
ever, Your affectionate wife.
Vilate Kimball”
 This is another proof that the Prophet
Joseph revealed the plural wife system.
 The following I gather from the second
letter written by my father from Pittsburg.
The first was written to me, which has been
published. This one was to my mother, and
was dated July 15th. He wrote that he and
brethren had been there a fortnight, waiting
for President B. Young, who they were look-
ing anxiously for. He continued to suffer
much from his lungs, in consequence of the
smoke from burning coal in that place; after
having a very severe attack of influenza and
cholera-morbus, which had reduced him so low
that he was hardly able to sit up, and could
only write a few lines at a time. He wrote,
“The Saints have been very good and kind.
The people here are mostly Dutch and Irish;
but very few have come out to hear us preach,
as Elder Page has whipt the Sects so, in his
preaching, they will not come  out to hear.
I do wish the Elders would stop it and take a
mild course, and preach the Gospel as they
have been commanded of the Lord, and ad-
vised by Brother Joseph and the Twelve. *
I shall leave next week if Brigham comes.
I want to go ahead and do what we can in
order to get through before cold weather
comes on. * * I have heard Brother Joseph
is again clear from his enemies. I wish they
could let him alone. * * 
 It seems sometimes as though I could not be
absent from my friends and those I so dearly
love, but this will not do. I must labor for
my Father in order that he may provide a
home not made with hands, but eternal in
the heavens. * For this I am willing to
suffer privation, and to wear myself out, and
to lay down my life, should it be necessary to
do so. My mind has been very fruitful in the
things of God, most of the time since I left
you in Quincy, till I was taken sick. My
whole soul is bound up in the cause of Christ,
and my prayer is daily that I may be a savior
of men and a comfort to the human family;
but I see, when I have done the best I can,
that I am a poor imperfect creature. I wish
that I had more wisdom, more light, more
paitence and more religion, and every thing
that is good and calculated to make my friends
happy, both in time and in eternity. * 
O, that little babe, kiss him for me, and the
rest of our dear children, and tell them to
write me how they get along. * I want you
to read this to Sarah and Sister Billings, who I
hold as one of my bosom friends. A friend
in these days is more precious than gold, and
I esteem her as a mother in Israel, and she
has my prayers and blessing. We are in a
critical place but be of good cheer, my dear
friends, for I esteem you as such in every
sense of the word, and may the Lord bless
you with peace forever and ever, amen.”
To be Continued.


...		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LAST election day, the Morgan County pau-
pers were taken from the poor-house and voted
in a body. Yet not an intelligent tax-paying
woman, not a lady school-teacher, or a farmer’s
wife would be trusted to cast a ballot in Mor-
gan county, Ind. Is this a government of the
people? —Our Herald.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PROMISES.
		--

	"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the
Kingdom of Heaven."

	Blessed are they who hunger and thirst after righteous-
ness, for they shall be fill'd.
									Jesus. 

Not to the proud, who have boundless possessions--
	Not to the mighty, the world favor'd throng--
Not unto those who have all of earth's blessings--
	Doth the kingdom of God and its glory belong.

Nay, hardly the wealthy, God's kingdom can enter.
	Their friends and position so much from them
		claim;
So much  do their thoughts in appearances centre
	They care not the kingdom of God to sustain.

Yet wealth is a boon, if but wisely we use it;
	Yea, wealth doth accomplish commendable things;
But when in our pride for display, we abuse it--
	Instead of a blessing, destruction it brings.

But unto the humble, the lowly of spirit--
	Shall riches abiding, and comfort be given;
Rejoice! Oh, ye poor ones, 'tis yours to inherit
	In fullness and glory, "The kingdom of Heaven."

Ye that thirst, and that faint for the life-giving waters,
	Who for righteousness hunger, midst sorrow and
		strife;
	Rejoice! God doth count you his sons and his daught-
		ers--
	Ye shall satisfied be, with the manna of life?

Ye yet shall be fill'd unto copious o'erflowing;
	The spirit of truth shall your bosoms inspire;
Your blessings shall be of your Father's bestowing,
	"Your souls shall be touched" and be warm'd as
		with fire.

And ye who have mourn'd over many offences--
	Enduring in hope, God's salvation to see--
Rejoice and be glad, for the Lord, your defence is,
	He wills that the honest, his people shall be.

Rejoice and be glad, yet with spirits repentant--
	'Gainst the sins that beset us, each on must contend;
Thus your souls shall be filled with the sweetest con-
		tentment--
	For the honest and humble, have God for their friend.

From the depths, He can lift you to glory and glad-
		ness:
	Can darkness dispel, by ineffable light;
He can banish the woes that o'erwhelm you with sad-
		ness,
	And scatter the clouds, were they blacker than 
		night.

Who can limit his love? His munificence measure?
	His compassion exhuast? or his purpose conceive?
"He sees not as man," 'tis his infinite pleasure--
	That the meek and the poor shall his kingdom re-
		ceive.

His gifts and his grace, God hath promised the lowly,
	That the feeble and faint, consolation may drink;
He gives not the proud what is sacred and holy;
	Nor leaves those who love him to helplessly sink.
					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
				------
	      MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
				------
			   Continued.
	A rather remarkable period in Mrs. Horne’s
history, dates a little previous to the events re-
corded in the last chapter. We designate it as
remarkable because it was the initiatory step
in the direction of public life, which has led to
many other things, all of these tending to give
her publicity and influenc in woman's depart-
ment of the spiritual labor in the Chruch. It is
well known to most of our readers that the
Relief Society was organized by the Prophet
Joseph in Nauvoo, Ill. The subject of this
sketch was a member of that organization.
When the Bishops organized in the various
wards and settlements, in the valleys of the
mountains, sometime after the return of the
people from the move to Provo, in the time of
Johnson's army, or as it is generally termed
the "Echo canyon war," Mrs. Horne was
chosen by Bisop A. Hongland of the 14th,
Ward Salt Lake City, to preside over the
branch of Relief Society in that ward.  This
took place on the 12th of December 1867. It
was a great surprise to the lady to be elected
to that position. Although a woman of great
force of character and endurance, she was
thoroughly domestic in her manner and habits,
and anything like notoriety was distasteful and
foreign to her nature. However she deter-
mined not to shrink from any responsiblity
placed upon her under the authority of the
priesthood, but to trust in God to help her
overcome her diffidence and fear of speaking in
public. Sister Eliza often refers to her being
so very timid that she could not vote in the 
members of the Society, without being sup-
ported by leaning on other sisters.  To see her
now stand up in the congregations of the Saints,
and hear  words of instruction which flow
from her  lips, one could scarcely creit that
she was ever so afraid of her own voice. Mrs.
Horne is particularly  in Scriptural
quotations.  She has mae the Bible a special
study, and her references are a very great help
to her in speaking, and more than supply the
want of language of which she sometimes com-
plains, though her hearers never think of it.
She has the gift of concentration which is
always good in a peaker or writer; she speaks
to the point and her reasoning is forcible and
clear.
	Mrs. Horne’s first Counselors in the Relief
Society were, Susan H. Wilkinson and Will-
mirth East, and subsequently Mrs. Elimna S.
Taylor was appointed Secretary and Jane
Richardson, Treasurer; under the wise and
judicious management of the President the
Society increased in numbers and not only was
great good accomplished in the relief of the
poor and afflicted, but means multiplied in the
treasury through prudent and careful financier-
ing.  A very good substantial two story-brick
building has been erected by the Society, one
part of which is rented for a store, and the up-
per story used for meetings, and other purposes
in the same connection.  The Society also own
a good granary, and have quite a large quantity
of wheat stored away. We have not space in
our columns to enumerate all the good work
which has been done in the Society under Mrs.
Horne's direction, but certainly she has proved
herself a faithful stewardess, as the Secretary's
record will show.  Mrs. Horne's success as a
leader was so apparent and her course so con-
sistent, that she was soon looked up to as an
example, and Pres. Young had such confidence
in her ability, that he gave her a very import-
ant mission among the sisters; this was called
retrenchment; he called upon her in Gunnison
when she was there on a visit to her son Jos-
eph, who was at that time Bishop of that place.
He told her to lead out in a more economical
way of living, of dressing and so forth; she
scarcely understood at the time what the labor
was to which he assigned her, but on her return
home she laid the matter before "Sister Eliza,"
whom the sisters recognize as the Elect Lady,
and told her of the mission from Pres. Young:
subsequently she called with Sister Eliza to see
ther President; and learn what could be done to
carry out his counsel in the matter. President
Young's advice was for them to hold meetings
on the subject of retrenchment, in table
etiquette, courses, style, etc., and in dress; hav-
ing their garments plain and modest, instead
of so many ruffles, flounces and furbelows, and
spend more time in moral, mental and spiritual
cultivation, and less upon fashion and the
vanities of the world. Accordingly Mrs.
Horne prepared an entertainment at her own
house, the table being set in a simple style
with plain food, and several Presidents of Re-
lief Societies were present,  Some good coun-
sel was given and the way seemed more
clear towards putting in practice the sugges-
tions. A meeting was appointed for the next
week in the 15th Ward school house, and from
there adjourned to the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, and from that time until the present
Mrs. Horne has presided at these regular semi-
monthly meetings of the Ladies General Re-
trenchment Associations.  She makes an excel-
lent President, has great dignity of character,
and is perfectly equal to the position she has so
long occupied.
	When Pres. Young instructed Sister Eliza.
to go through the Territory and organize the
young ladies, into Associations, for mutual
benefit and improvement, Mrs. Horne was
called to assist in the work of organizing. She
has organized and reorganized many of the
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions, in the Church, and at a more recent date
has also organized Primary Associations in
several places; and visits from time to time,
in all parts of the country, traveling among
the peopl, teaching and encouraging them in
the paths of light, and knowledge and advance-
ment. Her mission among women is a very
important one, and she takes up her work sys-
tematically, and allows no selfish interest to
come between her and the discharge of any
public service.
	At the time of the passage of the Cullom
Bill, in January 1876, a grand mass meeting
was called to convene in the Old Tabernacle,
Salt Lake City. It was a sort of indignation
meeting, and Mrs. Horne took an active part
in the proceedings, being one of the committee
appointed to draft resolutions. It was a re-
markable woman's rights movement, and the
expression of sentiments by Mormon women
was pronounced and free. Mrs. Horne also ad-
dressed the audience a few moments on the
questions before the house at that memorable
woman’s convention. In February following
the bill was passed, granting woman suffrage to
the women of Utah. Seven days after the
sisters met in their general meeting in the 14th
Ward, when most of the wards of the city were
represented, and a few ladies were selected as a
Committee to wait upon acting Governor Mann,
and express to him the gratitude of Mormon
women for his signing the document, granting
them the suffrage in Utah. Mrs. Horne was
selected as one of that Committee; and from
that time she has ever taken the greatest in-
terest in the subject of woman's voting. She
has never missed an opportunity of exercising
her privilege in this regard. She has always
been regular in attending the Primary meet-
ings in the precinct where she resides, and has
been elected a member of the County Central
Committee.
	Once or twice her name has been proposed
as Justice of the Peace, but the statute law of
Utah, still hinders woman from holding any
office of emolument or trust. Every thing
that women can do to prepare themselves to
aid in the political elevation of the sex Mrs.
Horne has sought diligently to do.  Strong-
minded she certainly is, and her reasoning up-
on woman's position is always sound and forc-
ible. Yet she is motherly and gentle, and no
one can say there is anything inconsistent with
womanly delicacy in her manner or bearing,
disproving altogether the theory of the oppos-
ers of political equality, who argue that it
makes woman mosculine, bold and forward, to
vote and to speak in public, and that they neg-
lect home and family.
		To be Continued.


A DISPATCH from Omaha 13 inst. states
that the Woman’s Suffrage Convention was
largely  attended, by prominent advocates.
Sixty-eight delegates from twelve states and
territories were on the platform.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	.	.	Editor.

 Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	SEPTEMBER 15, 1882.


NATURALIZATION AND REGISTRA-
			       TION.
				-----
	The first Monday in September, the District
Courts in Beaver and in Ogden, were both op-
ened so that all aliens who wished to take out
their naturalization papers, had the opportunity
by traveling to one or the other of these places.
Many persons went to these Court rooms from
different points, and availed themselves of  the
privilege of becoming citizens of the United
States. There has been a great neglect on the
part of those born in foreign countries, in taking
out their full papers, and it has seemed as if they
“were at ease in Zion,” not realizing the respon-
sibilities at Stake, in sustaining a republican
government in the Territory, as a part of the
great body politic.  But now the great need of
strength in numbers is apparent, it will perhaps
be different; and those who have been long en-
ough in the country, will have an ambition to
assist in maintaining the liberties and rights of
the people in the choice of officers to fill positions
of trust, in the Territory, as well as a delegate to
Congress.
	On the second Monday in September, by pro-
clamation of the Governor of Utah, the Third
District Court was opened in Salt Lake City,
which gave a great many the advantage of be-
coming naturalized, without taking a trip to
Ogden.  There should be no hesitancy on the
part of those who are entitled to such privelege
of fulfilling this duty; it is a sacred one, that
every man and every woman should feel bound
to respond to.  A duty each one owes to himself
or herself; a parent to his childron, and all owe
to the community in which they reside; to
help sustain law, order, and good government in
the land.
	A set of rules have been adopted by the Utah
Commission for the appointment and govern-
ment of registrars, and the conduct of registra-
tion and elections.  These rules have been ex-
tensively published, and probably carefully read,
discussed and commented upon.  In addition to
Rule 2 there is an oath attached, which each
person must take and subscribe to, before the
name of that individual can be placed on the
registration list.  This oath or affirmation is very
obnoxious in its wording; the phraseology of
it is such as any sensitive, delicate, pure-minded
woman would shrink from hearing, and nothing
but the sternest sense of duty could induce a
noble true woman to subscribe to it.  But brave
hearted women endure ignominy, scorn and in-
dignities for the sake of maintaining the right-
and God and their own conscience are their sup-
port and strength in any trying ordeal.  Jehovah
is for the right, and He alone is a great majority,
yet He requires every one to exercise his own
agency, in all matters pertaining to life here up-
on the earth.  He has endowed mankind liber-
ally with faculties and powers by which they
work out their own destinies, and this is in ac-
cordance with the true principles of all govern-
ment.
	Notwithstanding the oath which has to be
taken before one can register, many have al-
ready gone forward and accepted the conditions,
though feeling it a great injustice to be required
of them.  The words included in the test oath
"in the marriage relation” are exceedingly ob-
jectlonable; especially as the Edmund’s law it-
self does not specify such affirmation to be made.
It does look inconsistent that men and women
of the strictest purity of character, exemplary in
their lives in every respect, living in the highest
order of marriage, should be excluded from the
privilege of registering, and their names actually
erased from the list of voters, because of their
religious relations, even though in many instan-
ces they have been only spiritual and not in any
sense practical.  Yet the same rule is applied to
all, whether they have actually lived in the
principle or only received it in a spiritual form.
The practise of the world at large is not con-
sidered, men may live in such relations as they
like, if they do not marry, it is the actual cere-
mony that disfranchises American citizens.  It
is very galling to those who feel entitled to the
privileges of citizenship, to be debarred of the
exercise of the elective franchise; when they re-
alize the fact that some of the best blood of their
ancestry has been shed in defense of the liberty
of the country. Many of those disfranchised,
have all their lives been true and loyal patriots,
and more—have made this Territory habitable
by their hard labor and unremitting toil.
	The Edmund’s law has been differently inter-
preted by the Commissioners, who framed the
oath of affirmation, from what it was understood
previously, either by Mormons or non-Mormons.
This rendering of its meaning has made some
dissatisfaction, as those who have not violated
the law of 1862, against what is termed bigamy
or polygamy, would, had it not been for this oath,
have been permitted to register.  But according
to the present regulation even a suspicion, a
rumor which fails confirmation, is taken as
evidence that some private cerremony had
taken place away back in Nauvoo, or somewhere
else; though the other party to the transaction
has been dead many years.  Again a woman
whose husband has forsaken her and his family,
and cast her off, and lives with another woman
without marriage of any sort is permitted to
register.  Can such things be, and how can they
be reconciled with the principles of freedom and
religious liberty?  If the people’s party in Utah
will stand together, and each one do his duty in
the midst of the opposition brought to bear,
there need be no fear whatever of losing the
election.
	Some difficulty has arisen in regard to the re-
gistering of women citizens, and there is a dis-
position manifested to reject votes of women
altogether, this point will be carefully guarded,
and argued in open court; the commissioners
having previously decided that women were
eligible, under the statute, to exercise the right
of franchise.  It would be a most flagrant act of
injustice to take away this right after twelve
years experience without any difficulty having
arisin in consequence of woman suffrage.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
 Sister E. R. S. Smith, left this city on Wed-
nesday morning’s Southern train, to visit San-
pete Stake. Sister Zina D. H. Young was de-
tained on account of the illness of her sister Pres-
endia L. Kimball.
 The Primary Meetings will be held in each
precinct in this County on Monday at 7, p. m.
September 25, to select delegates to the County
Convention, called for Saturday, Sept. 30 at
2 m. in the County Court House.

			[Column 2]

	MRS. Elizabeth Bailey brought to this Office,
one of the most beautiful floral gifts we ever re-
cleved. Flowers are always welcome every-
where and on all occasions, and these were choice
and fragrant indeed. Many thanks to the
donor.

	WE have been specially requested, by the
Stake Presidents of Relief Society, Y. L. M. I.
A., and Primary Associations, to urge the sev-
eral secretaries in each of these Societies and
Associations in this County, to prepare their re-
ports immediately, and forward them to the
Stake Secretary of each of these organizations.
 A TERRIRORIAL Convention of the People’s
Party has been arranged for, to be held in the
City Hall, in this city on Monday the 9th, of
October next at 12 m., for the purpose of
nominating a delegate to Congress. The County
Central Committees have been requested to take
immediate steps, in their respective counties in
this direction.

	IT is anticipated that a class of ladies for in-
structlon in obstetrics and anatomry, will be
opened in the Deseret Hospital, shortly after the
October Conference. Persons wishing to study
these branches, should avail themselves of this
oppostunity of preparotion for practical work in
midwifery. For particulars, address the Secre-
tary of the Deseret Hospital Association.

	THE National Woman Suffrage Association
will hold their annual Convention in Omaha,
Neb., Sep. 26, 27 and 28. It will no doubt be
numerously attended. As Vice-President of the
N. W. S. A. for Utah, we have been invited to
attend, and should be glad to do so, and report
the attempt to disfranchise the women of Utah
just made by the “Liberals.”

 The lady secretaries of the several Stake or-
ganizations of Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations,will please notice that
full semi-annual reports of each of these organiz-
ations should be forwarded in time, so. that the
Secretary of the central organization can com-
pile and hand in her report to Pres. John
Taylor’s Office ten days previous to the October
Conference.

 THE seventh book of the Faith Promoting Ser,
ies, has been issued from the Office of the Juve-
nile Instructor, In this City. It is entitled' “H
C. Kimball’s Journal.” The first ten chapters
were published in Nauvoo in pamphlet form, by
Elder Robert, B. Thompson. The next six
chapters have been compiled from the manu-
script by Helen Mar Whitney, eldest daughter
of Pres. Kimball. She also furnished letters and
items for the concluding chapter. There are so
many marvelous instances of the power of God
and the healing of the sick, through the admin-
istration of the ordinances, by the authority of
the priesthood, that it cannot fail to be eminently
useful to the young people of Zion. Heber C.
Kimball was greatly gifted in faith, and was a
natural prophet. He was often as much aston-
ished at his own words as those who listened to
his prophecies could possibly be. We think this
book a good addition to the young people’s librar-
ies, and would advise every parent to purchase
one. It is good for the children to know the
trials and persecutions under which the Saints
struggled and labored to carry the Gospel to the
nations in an earlfer day. The book is neatly
bound and contains over 100 pages. Price 25 cts.
For sale at Juvenile Instructor Office.

	SISTERS E. R. S. Smith and Zina D. H.
Young, went to Logan to attend the Ladies Con-
ference of Cache Stake, on Friday and Saturday,
Sept. 1st and 2d. The Conference was well at-
tended on Friday, Mrs. Libbie Benson presid-
ing. The Relief Society was well and ably rep-


resented. In the evening a general meeting of
the young people was held, at which Sisters
Eliza and Zina, addressed the audience on such
subjects, as were calculated to promote improve-
ment, moral, mental and spiritual.
 On Saturday morning the Y. L. M. I. A., held
their Conference, Mrs. Harriet A. Preston pre-
siding. Prayer was offered by Miss Ida Ione
Cook, Counselor to Mrs. Preston. The branches
were, well represented as being in good working
order. In the afternoon, the Primary Conference
convened, Mrs. Jane B. Molen presiding. The
Associations are in good condition, and an excel- 
lent feeling exists among the different branches
in the Stake and certainly great spiritual ad-
vancement is being made by the children in
these organizations. At Hyde Park the sisters
addressed the children in the Sunday School and
on Monday in Mendon held three meetings, one
with the Primary, one with the Relief Society-
and in the evening with the Y. L. M. I. A. All
the meetings were well attended and a good
spirit prevailed. The sisters were cordially re-
ceived and hospitably welcomed.
 THE regular monthly meeting of the board of
managers of the Deseret Hospital, was held in
the reception room at the building, on Monday
Sept, 11th, Mrs. E.R.S. Smith in the chair.
Prayer, by Mrs. B. W. Smith. Secretary read
the financial report of all money received by
memberships, donation, and from the Concert,
Total amount, cash $3,290,80. Orders 170,30.
Total Expenditures, cash to Sept., $1,569,05.
Orders on tithing store 53, SO. On hand Sept,
lst. $1,721,75; orders on tithing store 116,50.
Donations of bedding etc. Quilts 49, bedsprads
5, pillow-cases 30 pairs, sheets 29, pillows 6,
blankets 3 pairs, bleached and colored goods
from Salt Lake Stake Primary Associations,
prized $10,00; bleached material, Old Folks Com-
mittee 40,00; towelling 2,00; towels 16, factory
and sheeting  $3,80; bedsteads donated 2, chickens
5. books for records 2,90, one Hymn Book, one
“Mormon Battalion,” flour 550 lbs. Molasses
$5,00; honey  $1,00; sugar $1,50; soap $1,25;
cheese, 75 cts, also crockery, new knives and
forks and spoons, and many other things for use
and household purposes.
 The Hospital is in a prosperous condition and
there is evey appearance of the permanent suc-
cess of the enterprise. We publish below the
medical report for the month of August, by the
House. Surgeon.
 Medical Report of the Deseret Hospital from
July 31st, to Aug. 31st, 1882. Patients remain-
ing at date of last report, 6; received during the
month of August, 8; discharged, 6; died, none;
total remaining, 8. Visits, of the medical board,
Dr. Young 28; Dr. Anderson, G. Prescriptions
and treatment by the House Surgeon, to out
patients 17 to indoor patients, 151.
            Ellen B. Ferguson, House Surgeon.


______________________________________________________________________________________

								WOMAN'S EXPONENT								

______________________________________________________________________________________


﻿PRACTICAL EDUCATION.
				-----
	In our past, how limited has been the educa-
tional advantages of woman!  Book-learning
was supposed to have very little to do with the
requisite acquirements of the ideal housekeeper;
the masses really believing that "woman should
understand" only sufficient Geography to know
the different apartments in her house, and
enough Chemistry to keep the kettle boiling.’
How absurd!  If “knowledge is power” why
should not woman possess her full quota as
well as the sterner sex?  She who is entrusted
with the sacred responsibility of bearing the
souls of men, of ministering to the wants and
necessities of her household.  Is it not she who
must furnish their nutriment, not only to the


new-born infant, but 'tis she who must supply
the ever-recurring demands of the older and
stronger members of the family.  Truly the
most thorough housekeepers—the best wives
and mothers, are those who are best educated.
The true and correct idea of education, is obtain-
ing practical knowledge, knowledge that will
enhance our usefulness, and that will give to
ourselves the greatest degree of satisfaction.
An understanding that will enable us to look
beyond the surface of all animate and inanimate,
creation, whereby we may discern the elements
that compose those vital agencies so necessary
to our life and health on the earth.  Air, food
and drink.  That our children may be properly
clothed in all seasons of the year, and have
healthful nutritious food, pure water to drink
and an abundant supply of Oxygen in the air of
our dwelling houses.  How often does a want of
a deep and thorough knowledge of these simple
but all-important subjects, result in serious and
oftimes fatal consequences.
Then let our wives and daughters study, think
and reflect seriously, endeavor to restrain this
increasing love of adornment and pleasure,
wean our attention from the artifices of dress
and vanity to the more solid and practical ideas
of a true life, of a genuine, true womanhood.
Study the beautiful principles of chemistry,
physiology and anatomy; that our lives may be-
come more practically and intelligently useful.
							E. R. S.


SHE HATH DONE WELL.
				  -----
	The Presidents of the Primary Associations,
who ably perform the duties pertaining to that
particular calling, are worthy of the honor and
respect of those whom they so faithfully serve.
We are always pleased to see deference shown
to such persons, as an appreciation of their
labors.  It is simply just to accord to those who
do public duty an expression of good feeling.  It
encourages them in the future, to know that
their work is acceptable.  At Wanship, Summit
County, on the 15th of June last, a party of
friends and relatives convened at the residence
of Bishop J. C. Roundy, in honor of his wife,
Mrs. Lovisa Roundy, whose birthday they
wished to celebrate; and when one has lived
half a century they can appreciate the love of
their friends.  Good wishes and presents were
gratefully received by the hostess; a bounteous
repast partaken of, music, singing and dancing
were freely indulged in, and a good spirit and
feeling prevailed throughout the evening.
Sister Roundy has faithfully performed her
duties as President of the Primary Associations
of Summit Stake for a number of years, and is
respected and loved by all who know her.  The
occasion was one long to be remembered, and
may she live to see many happy returns of the
day, in prosperity, peace and happiness.  A
pleasing feature of the entertainment was the
reading of a poem addressed to Prest. Roundy
composed and read by one of the young ladles of
the party.					N.W.
Wanship, Utah.


CHILDRENS FAIR.
				-----
	On the 16th and 17th of August the two
Primary Associations of Centerville united their
efforts in a Primary Fair. Mrs. Rebecca Porter
taking charge.  There were three tables—one
for produce of the boys' own raising—one for
little girls' needle work—and one for fancy work.
There was also another one which was set for
dinner, by the Primary girls under 14 years of
age, and all the cooking was done by the little
girls; jellies, pickles, fresh and preserved fruits


bread, butter, cakes, etc.--one very handsomely
ornamented cake--and all the articles of the
best quality. Bishop Cheney and wife and Br.
Reeves and wife and the officers of both Primary
Associations were invited to dinner. The tables
were tastefully ornamented with flowers and
fruits, and the walls were decorated with mot-
toes and pictures. There was one very beauti-
ful, being the Lord's prayer cut in wood and set
on black velvet ground, made by Master John-
nie Whittaker. It was very artistic and hand-
some. There was a great variety of hair work,
one handsome wreath by a little girl nine years
old. The boys tried to excel in vegetables, and
succeeded in bringing forward very fine speci-
mens of all the varieties one could think of
There were some stock and fowls, rabbits,
pigeons and sheep. Two lambs raised by Mas-
ter David Chase, which he had raised wholly
himself, were very fine. One little boy made a 
perfect miniature hay-rack, another a cupboard
with glass doors; then there were little wooden
tables, rakes, shovels, etc. One boy had a sack
of flour on exhibition, his own work at his
father's mill. Master Byron Kesler, aged 14,
had on exhibition teeth he had drawn, and a
full set made by himself.
	There were a number of ladies from other
parts of the County. Mrs. A. S. Rogers, Mrs.
Mary S. Clark and others who came to see the
Fair and encourage the children. The officers
most actively engaged in the labor were Mrs.
Rebecca Porter, Misses Frankie Randall, Kate
Chase and Emily Porter.


﻿APPRECIATION.
				-----
			Monroe, Sevier County,
					August 22,1882.
Editor Deseret News:
	I desire to express through the columns of
your paper my gratitude to Doctors E. B.
Ferguson, S. B. Young, and W. F. Anderson,
also to Matron Mary Ann McLean and Nurse
Sophia Erricsson, and others of the Deseret
Hospital, for the efficient manner in which I
was treated for lameness in the knee, and for
the kindness and courtesy shown.  I consider
the Deseret Hospital a necessary and excellent
institution for the people of Utah.
	Respectfully,
HENRY J. RICH.


﻿OBITUARIES.
				 -----
	Sister Hannah Lindstrum Madsen was born
Sept. 24th 1850, Sweden.  Died May 23d, 1882,
at Mt. Pleasant, Sanpete Co. Sister Hannah
was the beloved wife of Christian Madsen, and
was a patient woman in every circumstance in
life in which you could place her.  She was a
faithful and devoted wife, and a most affection-
ate and loving mother.  She was First Counselor
to the President of the North Ward Primary
Association in Mt. Pleasant, and indefatigable
in the discharge of every duty.  Being the only
one of her family who embraced the truth, she
zealously preached the Gospel to her father’s
household, by letter, striving to make plain to
them the great plan of life and salvation but
they have persistently rejected it.  And now
her testimony is sealed.
	Sister Madsen has been taken from us in the
midst of a life of usefulness, and will not soon be
forgotten.  We deeply sympathize with her good
and kind husband, who is left with four lovely
children, the eldest only 5 years old, to mourn
her early departure.  May she rest in peace, till
the morning of the ressurrection, when she will
again join her beloved ones, where there will be
no more sorrow nor parting.
					M.F.C. MORRISON.


[Column 1]
	Amanda Malvina Hammond, daughter of
Benjamin and Almeda Hammond, was born
May 6, 1827, Town of Penobscot, Maine. Joined
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 
when very young, was united in marriage to 
Harrison Burgess in Nauvoo, Feb. 6, 1846. She
shared the persecutions, and was driven with
the Saints from that place; emigrated to Utah
performing that hard and tedious journey in 
company with Sophia M. Burgess, her husband's
wife, the companion of their destiny, leaving
them in June, 1848, to go on a mission to Eng-
land. She resided in Salt Lake City from that
date until called South, in the fall of 1862, when
with her husband and family she settled in Pine
Valley, Washington County; until July 17, 1882.
At that time she went to Provo to be treated by
Dr. Riggs, celebrated for his treatment of cancers; 
while there erysipelas in the head set in (of
which disease she had had a severe attack the
Winter previous.) and died August 8, 1882, hav-
ing been there about three weeks; during which
time she had received every care and attention,
from the Dr. and his family, and her untiring
faithful nurse, Mrs. Smith, daughter of the late
Bishop Duke. Her remains were prepared for
burial, and placed in a Metallic Coffin, accom-
panied by her husband and eldest son was
placed on  cars, and brought to Pine Valley,
where they arrived on the 12 Aug. 5 o'clock a.m.
37 hours from Provo. 
	On Sunday 13 ins. at 2 p.m. her remains were
carried to the Meeting House by her sons and 
friends, followed by her beloved husband and
family, the Relief Society, the Y. M. M., and
Young Ladies, and Primary Associations. The
speakers for the occasion were, Bishop F. W. 
Jones, Robert Gardner Sen., Robert L. Lloyd
and Harrison Burgess. The remarks were very
appropriate, comforting and consoling, to the
family and friends of the deceased. The remains
were taken to Cemetery followed by a large con-
course of people in wagons, and interred by the
side of her three children, two of whom had been
buried within the last eight months. She was
the mother of 11 children, and 24 grandchildren. 
She leaves a husband, and 8 children 4 sons and
4 daughters, and a numerous circle of relatives
and friends, to mourn her loss. She was truly a 
faithful Mother in Israel, a true Latter-day
Saint, and a firm believer in all the principles of 
this great Latter-day work. A short time before
her demise, she bore a faithful testimony, with
the sisters of the Relief Society, of which Society
she had been Second Counselor since April 1, 
1877. She expressed gratitude to her Heavenly
Father, that she had been privileged to raise her
family in the celestial order of marriage, that
her footsteps had been led and guided by Provi-
dence, out of the paths of the wicked and un-
godly, and planted on a sure foundation, felt if
she lived, she was in the hands of the Lord, and
if she died she was also in his hands. Exhorted
her sisters to faithfulness and diligence, to unity
and endurance to the end. Surely her life and
character is worthy of imitation.
	S. M. Burgess and E. M. Jones, Committee.
			--------------
	DIED: At Croyden, Morgan Co. July 15, 1882. 
Sarah Ann Storer. Deceased was born Dec  21st,
1820, in Nottingham, England. Embraced the
Gospel in 1850, emigrated to Utah 1872. She
has filled the office as Teacher in the Relief So-
ciety since its first organization in this Ward;
and has been faithful in the performance of her
duties, when her health permitted. She was a 
regular attendant at our meetings, and was ever
ready to testify to the truth of the work she had
embraced.
	The disease which terminated her life was 
cancer in the back of the neck, from which she

[Column 2]
had suffered for nineteen years. She died in the
full hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Sister Storer was the mother of eight children, 
six boys and two girls, all of whom are yet 
living. 
		HELEN THACKERAY, President.
		ELIZABETH BLACKWELL, Sec'y.
	Croyden Relief Society.

DIED: In Ovid, Bear Lake Co. Idaho, Aug
4th, 1882, after an illness of three months, Car-
oline Mathilda Petersen, was born in Denmark
Aug. 10th, 1853, and emigrated to Utah in 1863. 
She was set apart as President of the Y. L. M.
I. Association, when it was organized here three
years ago, and has faithfully preformed her
duties, until death called her. She leaves a hus-
band, three children and a large circle of friends
to mourn her loss. 
	Whereas, God has seen fit to take from our
midst our beloved President--Resolved, that we
the members of the Y. L. M. I. A., do sincerly
mourn her loss, and extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy, to her husband and family in their great
bereavement.
	MARY JENEEN and NETTIE S. JONES, Coun-
selors. Ovid Relief Society.
	(Deseret News please copy.)

	DIED: In North Morgan, Utah August 6, 1882
Elizabeth S. C. Grover, wife of Thomas Grover. 
and daughter of Martin and Adelgenda Heiner,
Deceased was born in Pennsylvania, April 4, 
1848. She leaves a family of seven children one
infant six hours old, at the time of her death.
She was a noble and affectionate woman, a thor-
ough Latter-day Saint. A good wife and tender
mother, faithful in every position in life. As a
member of the Relief Society she was beloved
and respected by all with whom she was associ-
ated in her labors. She was a favorite among
her friends, and the feelings of those who are
called to part with her cannot be expressed in
words. We desire to extend our sincere sym-
pathy to the bereaved family, the young hus-
band and father, the little children thus de-
prived of a  mother's loving care, and the aged
father and mother, but we know she has gone to
a better home, where sickness and death cannot
enter, and where all tears are wiped away. May
our Heavenly Father soften this great affliction
to those so sorely grieved at her loss, and may
they be able to say "The Lord giveth and the
Lord taketh away, blessed be the name of the 
Lord.
	Elizabeth Worlton, Sec'y. R. S. North Mor-
gan.
			-------------------------


62 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

HEBER CITY.

	The Conference of the Relief Societies of
Wasatch Stake convened in Heber City Hall,
Aug. 11, 1882. Present were, Pres. Emma
Brown, her Second Counselor, Mary Daybell,
the Pres. of the several societies, local author-
ities. Pres. Hatch, T. H. Giles, Bishop Mur-
dock and other brethren. After the usual op-
ening exercises, the minutes of the previous
Conference were read and accepted. Written
reports were read by the Secretary. The sev-
eral wards were then represented. East Heb-
er, Mrs. Rasband; West Heber, Mrs. Foreman,
Midway, Mrs. Gurney; Wallsbury; Mrs. Clif-
ton; Charleston, Mrs. Taylor; Center, Mrs.
Richardson. The Primary wes well repres-
ented, all seeming to be in a prosperous con-
dition. Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock,
singing and Benediction.

WEST BOUNTIFUL.

	The Primary Association of West Bountiful
Ward, was organized on the 7th of May 1881.


by Mrs. Aurelia Rogers, President of the
Primary of the Stake. We have had good
meetings, and have endeavored to instil good
principles into the minds of the children under
our care, our labors have been blessed. Our
President, Mrs. Jane Eldredge, has lately res-
igned, which caused us to be reorganized. We
had a visit from Mrs. A. Rogers on the 17th of
August, when she attended to that duty. Mrs.
Maggie Grant was appointed President, and
Mrs. Lucy D. Muir and Mrs. Jennie Grant,
Counselors, Miss Julia Fackrell Secretary,
with two assistants. Mrs. Rogers expressed
her wishes for our success, and left her blessing
with the children and their teachers, and she
felt we would go forward in our labor of love.
	Wishing success for all Primaries throughout
Zion, I am yours in the covenant.
				JULIA FACKRELL, Sec'y.

	Afternoon session, singing, prayer, singing.
Primary reports were then given, showing the
spirit of improvement. Sister Duke, from
Provo, spoke to us a short time, relating some
pleasing incidents; relative to the Excursion,
given to the "Old Folks" in Salt Lake City.
Also told of the trials of the Saints in the Pro-
phet Joseph's day; was proud to have a name
and standing in the Church and kingdom of
God. The appeal from the Deseret Hospital
was then read by the Sec,y. President Hatch
spoke to the sisters, said he was pleased to know
the societies are in a prosperous condition.
Said a portion of the Tithing should be used
for the support of the poor. The sisters should
look after the sick, and see that they are cared
for. Said the Deseret Hospital is an institu-
tion worthy the support of Latter-day Saints.
Gave the sisters some excellent counsel in re-
gard to their duties. Sister Brown spoke
briefly, was pleased with the remarks which
had been made. A good spirit prevailed
throughout the Conference, which adjourned
for 3 months. Benediction by T. H. Giles.
				MARY BRONSON, Sec'y.
				AVIS M. BRONSON, Ass't.


ADVICE

OF AN AZTEC MOTHER; TRANSLATED FROM
	SAHAGUN'S HISTORIA DE NEUVAESPANA,"
	LIB. VI. CAP. XIX.

	[ I have thought it best to have this transla-
tion made in the most literal manner, that the
reader may have a correct idea of the strange
mixture of simplicity, approaching to childishness
and moral sublimity, which belongs to the or-
iginal. It is the product of the twilight of civil-
ization.]
	"My beloved daughter, very dear little dove,
you have already heard and attended to the
words which your father has told you. They
are precious words, and such as are rarely
spoken or listened to, and which have pro-
ceeded from the bowels and heart in which they
have been treasured up; and your beloved
father well knows that you are his daughter,
begotton of him, are his blood, and his flesh;
and God our Lord knows that it is so.  Al-
though you are a woman, and are the image of
your father, what more can I say to you than
has already been said?  What more can you
hear than what you have heard from your lord
and father?  Who has fully told you what it is
becoming for you to do and to avoid; nor is
there anything remaining, which concerns you,
that he has not touched upon.  Nevertheless,
that I may do towards you my whole duty, I
will say to you some few words.—The first thing
that I earnestly charge upon you is, that you
observe and do not forget what your father has
now told you, since it is all very precious; and
persons of his condition rarely publish such
things; for they are the words which belong
to the noble and wise,—valuable as rich jewels,


[Column 1]
See, then, that you take them and lay them up
in your heart, and write them in your bowels.
If God gives you life, with these same words
will you teach your sons and daughters, if God
shall give you them.—The second thing that I
desire to say to you is, that I love you much,
that you are my dear daughter. Remember
that nine months I bore you in my womb, that
you were born and brought up in my arms. I
placed you in your cradle, and in my lap, and
with my milk I nursed you. This I tell you, in
order that you may know that I and your
father are the source of your being; it is we
who now instruct you. See that you receive
our words, and treaesure them in your breast.
—Take care that your garments are such as
are decent and proper; and observe that you
do not adorn yourself with much finery, since
this is a mark of vanity and of folly. As little
becoming is it, that your dress should be very
mean, dirty, or ragged; since rags are a mark
of the low, and of those who are held in con-
tempt. Let your clothes be becoming and neat,
that you may neither appear fantastic nor mean.
When you speak, do not hurry your words from
uneasiness, but speak deliberately and calmly.
Do not raise your voice very high, nor speak
very low, but in a moderate tone. Neither
mince, when you speak, nor when you salute,
nor speak through your nose; but let your
words be proper, of a good sound, and your
voice gentle. Do not be nice in the choice of
your words. In walking, my daughter, see
that you behave becomingly, neither going with
haste, nor too slowly; since it is an evidence of
being puffed up, to walk too slowly, and walk-
ing hastily causes a vicious habit of restlessness
and instability. Therefore neither walk very
fast nor very slow; yet, when it shall be nec-
essary to go with haste, do so,—in this use your
discretion. And when you may be obliged to
jump over a pool of water, do it with decency,
that you may neither appear clumsy nor light.
When you are in the street, do not carry your
head very much inclined, or your body bent;
nor as little go with your head very much
raised; since it is a mark of ill breeding; walk
erect, and with your head slightly inclined.
Do not have your mouth covered, or your face,
from shame, nor go looking like a near-sighted
person, nor, on your way, make fantastic move-
ments with your feet. Walk through the street
quietly, and wiih propriety. Another thing
that you must attend to, my daughter, is, that
when you are in the street you do not go look-
ing hither and thither, nor turning your head
to look at this and that; walk neither looking
at the skies nor on the ground. Do not look
upon those whom you meet with the eyes of an
offended person, or have the appearance of be-
ing uneasy; but of one who looks upon all with
a serene couutenance; doing this, you will give
no one occasion of being offended with you.
Show a becoming countenance; that you may
neither appear morose, nor, on the other hand,
too complaisant. See, my daughter, that you
give yourself no concern about the words you
may hear, in going through the street, nor pay
any regard to them, let those who come and go
say what they will. Take care that you neither
answer nor speak, but act as if you neither
heard nor understood them; since, doing in
this manner, no one will be able to say with
truth that you have said anything amiss. See,
likewise, my daughter, that you never paint
your face, or stain it or your lips with colors,
in order to appear well; since this is a mark of
vile and unchaste women. Paints and coloring
are things which bad women use,—the im-
modest, who have lost all shame and even
sense, who are like fools and drunkards, and
are called rameras [prostitutes]. But, that
your husband may not dislike you, adorn your-
self, wash yourself, and cleanse your clothes;
and let this be done with moderation; since if
very day you wash yourself and your clothes

[Column 2]
it will be said of you that you are over-nice,—
too delicate; they will call you tapepeizon tin-
emaxoch.—My daughter, this is the course you
are to take; since in this manner the ancestors
from whom you spring brought us up. Those
noble and venerable dames, your grandmothers,
told us not so many things as I have told you,
—they said but few words, and spoke thus:
"Listen my daughters; in this world it is neces-
sary to live with much prudence and circnm-
spection. Hear this allegory, which I shall
now tell you, and preserve it, and take from it
a warning and example for living aright.
Here, in this world, we travel by a very nar-
row, steep, and dangerous road, which is as a
lofty mountain ridge, on whose top passes a
narrow path; on either side is a great gulf
without bottom; and if you deviate from the
path you will fall into it. There is need, there-
fore, of much discretion in pursuing the road."
My tenderly loved daughter, my little dove,
keep this illustration in your heart, and see
that you do not forget it,—it will be to you as
a lamp and a beacon so long as you shall live
in this world. Only one thing remains to be
said. and I have done. If God shall give you
life, if you shall continue some years upon the
earth, see that you guard yourself carefully,
that no stain comes upon you; should you for-
feit your chastity, and afterwards be asked in
marriage and should marry any one, you will
never be fortunate, nor have true love,—he
will always remember that you were not a
virgin, and this will be the cause of great afflic-
tion and distress; you will never be at peace,
for your husband will always be suspicious of
you. O my dearly beloved daughter, if you
shall live upon the earth, see that no more than
one man approaches you; and observe what I
now shall tell you, as a strict command.
When it shall please God that you shall receive
a husband, and you are placed under his
authority, be free from arrogance, see that you
do not neglect him, nor allow your heart to be
in opposition to him. Be not disrespectful to
him. Beware that in no time or place you
commit the treason against him called ad-
ultery. See that you give no favor to another;
since this, my dear and much-loved daughter,
is to fall into a pit without bottom, from which
there will be no escape. According to the
custom of the world, if it shall be known, for
this crime they will kill you, they will throw
you into the street, for an example to all the
people, where your head will be crushed and
dragged upon the ground. Of these says a
proverb, "You will be stoned and dragged up-
on the earth, and others will take warning at
your death." From this will arise a stain and
dishonor upon our ancestors, the nobles and
senators from whom we are descended. You
will tarnish their illustrious fame, and their
glory, by the filthiness and impurity of your
sin. You will likewise, lose your reputation,
your nobility, and honor of birth; your name
will be forgotten and abhorred. Of you will it
be said that you were buried in the dust of your
sins. And remember, my daughter, that,
though no man shall see you, nor your husband
ever know what happens; God, who is in every
place sees you, will be angry with you, and will
also excite the indignation of the people against
you, and shall be avenged upon you as he shall
see fit. By his command, you shall either be
maimed, or struck blind, or your body will
wither, or you will come to extreme poverty;
for daring to injure your husband. Or per-
haps he will give you to death, and put you
under his feet, sending you to the place of tor-
ment. Our Lord is compassionate; but, if you
commit treason against your husband, God,
who is in evrey place, shall take vengeance on
your sins, and will permit you to have neither
contentment, nor repose, nor a peaceful life;
and he will excite your husband to be always
unkind towards you, and always to speak to

[Column 3]
you with anger. My dear daughter, whom I
tenderly love, see that you live in the world in
peace, tranquillity, and contentment, all the
days that you shall live. See that you dis-
grace not yourself, that you stain not your
honor, nor pollute the lustre and fame of your
ancestors. See that you honor me and your
father, and reflect glory on us by your good
life. May God prosper you, my first-born,
and may you come to God, who is in every
place."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 63


VISIT TO BEAVER.

	Wednesday Afternoon August 30, in com-
pany with Mrs. M. I. Horne, we left the city to
visit Beaver Stake of Zion, in the interest of
woman's organizations, the Deseret Hospital,
the elective franchise, and such matters as per-
tain to those interests. At Milford Mrs. Horne's
Brother, George Hales, of Beaver, met us with
a conveyance and we rode on to Minersville,
where we dined with the Relief Society Presi-
dent, Mrs. Grundy. Then proceeded direct to
Beaver, and arrived at Mrs. Sarah M. Dell's at 6
o'clock Thursday evening, where we were enter-
tained in the most hospitable manner, although
during our stay there we were constantly go-
ing from place to place among the people;
and every where were most cordially wel-
comed.
	On Friday morning, Sept. 1, the Conference
commenced in the Meeting House in Beaver
City, Mrs. Lucinda Houd presiding. Pres.
Murdock was on the stand, and several of the
leading brethren and bishops of that Stake.
The reports, both written and verbal, from the
different branches of the R. S., were very good
indeed; and the meeting was addressed briefly
by the sisters from Salt Lake, and also Mrs.
Lucinda Houd, and President Murdock.
	At 2 P. M. the Conference convened again,
and Sisters Wells, Horne, Tyler and Dell,
each made some remarks. Elder Wm. Fother-
ingham also occupied a short time in speaking.
Conference adjourned for six months.
	After meeting we visited the Primary Fair,
which was opened in the Relief Society Hall,
where we saw a nice display of the childrens'
work. It would be impossible to enumerate
all the articles, but some of the most noticable.
An elegant tidy, Lillie Murdock; wool mat;
Clara Slaughter; elegant worked book-mark,
Katie Slaughter; pair wool mats, Jennie Gillis
embroidered handkerchief, Melia White; Mary
Ann Limb, handsome silk-lined work basket,
2 tidies; crochet lace, Hattie Anderson; home-
made straw hat, very fine and pretty, Sarah
May Coleman; home-knit stockings, Julia
Farnsworth; wool mat, Harriet Mumford;
puzzle pincushion, Henrietta Schofield; ingeni-
ous picture frame of burrs, Hattie Fathering-
ham; wool mats, Jane Anderson and Annie
Davey; 2 pairs handsome openwork stockings,
Mary A. Tolton; wool mats, May Belle Fother-
ingham; picture frame, Clara Fotheringham;
one jar preserved apples, May Ashworth; cor-
nucopia, Lettie Limb, four years old. Mary
A. Law, very pretty needle-book; Louisa Fer-
rar, very nice loaf of bread; Mary Ferrar, but-
ter; Sarah Ellen Fotheringham, child's dress
of home-made cloth; quilts nicely pieced and
quilted, by the Primary children; mottoes of
all varieties worked by the children; Rhoda
J. Shephard, five years old, match safe; Laura
Ashworth, card-case; Sarah E. Law, card re-
ceiver; Lizzie Ward, five years old, pincushion;
Edith Slaughter cornucopia; Alice Robinson,
crochet mat; Hattie Mumford, daisy mats;
Mary Ashworth, large ornamented cornucopia;
Julia E. Shephard handsome needle book;
wool mat, variety of colors, Annie Davey; 2
cradle-quilts, Mona Schofield, Sarah Hutchins.
Baby's wool sacque home-made. The ten com-
mandments and the Lord's Prayer, elaborately


worked and framed. From the boy's, crook-
necked squashes, table, cupboard, ladder, and
lots of other things.
	In the evening there was a general meeting
for the young people, and all were invitted.
The meeting was a full one, many young peo-
ple of both sexes were present, and the remarks
of the sisters were calculated to inspire them,
with earnestness and zeal in the work of
improvement.
	On Saturday at 10 o'clock the Conference of
Y. L. M. I. A., convened Mrs. Mary E. Ash-
worth presiding. Minutes and reports were
read and verbal reports given. Besides the
ladies from Salt Lake, Mrs. M. E. Ashworth, and
Pres. Murdock, and Mrs. L. Houd, addressed
the Conference. In the afternoon the Prim-
ary Conference was held Mrs. Jane Gillis pre-
siding. There were a few exercises very well
rendered by the children. There were paesent
on the stand Apostle F. M. Lyman, Pres.
Hinckley of Millard Stake, Elders Wm. Rob-
inson of Fillmore, and Hon. Edward Dalton of
Iron County. Elder Lyman made some inter-
esting remarks, after the ladies had finished
speaking. Conference adjourned for six
months.
	On Monday we left Beaver early and held
meeting with the Primary Association at
Greenville, at 9 A. M. Mrs. Jane Edwards
presiding; the children, about fifty in number,
were orderly and manifested much interest.
At 10, the Relief Society met, and the children
were dismissed. Mrs. Ann Richards presiding
over the meeting, which was an interesting
one. After partaking of a bountiful dinner at
Bishop Lillywhite's, we went on to Adamsville.
Met with the Primary Association at 2 P. M.
Mrs. Ann Gunn presiding.
	At 3 P. M. the Relief Society convened,
Mrs. Ann Jones presiding. From there we
drove on to Minersville, and met with the
young people in the evening, Mrs. Lydia Black-
burn presiding. There was quite a large audi-
ence and the meeting was an interesting one.
The next morning at 9 o'clock, the Primary
Association met and had a very interesting
meeting, Mrs. Lydia Blackburn presiding. At
10 the Relief Society, met Mrs. Bathsheba B.
Grundy presiding.
	We found the Relief Societies in good work-
ing order, but the sisters were hungering for
instruction in their several duties from some
persons, who were constantly in a position to
comprehend the needs of the hour. We left
Minersville about 2 P. M. on Thursday, and
arrived in Salt Lake at 10, on Wednesday
morning. Mrs. Horne stopped off at Deseret, to
visit her daughter, and met with the Relief
Society and Associations in that place. We
shall remember with pleasure our visit to Bea-
ver Co.,and the liberality of the people in con-
tributing to the Deseret Hospital.


64 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE TEMPLES OF THE LORD.

	The Temples now being built to the Lord,
will be dedicated to him for his work to be
performed in, and will stand as monuments in
time and all eternity, showing forth a tangible
kingdom to be established in the last days upon
the earth. Although unfinished they stand
forth in grand relief in our mountain vales,
and no Latter-day Saint can look upon these
gigantic edifices without peculiar feelings of awe,
and sublimity, and as we read the words of
Solomon, when he built a house to the Lord,
he felt his weakness, so great was the magnitude
of the work for so great an end. Said Soloman
"But will God in very deed dwell with men on
the earth?" Behold heaven and the heaven
of heavens cannot contain thee: how much less
this house which I have built!" Solomon of-
fered up a most efficient prayer for the people
of the Lord, and the Lord appeared to Solo-

[Column 2]
﻿mon and said to him, "I have heard thy
prayers and have chosen this place to myself
for a house of sacrifice." He also made prom-
ises to Solomon in regard to curses that should
come upon the land on account of sin. The
dearth, locusts and pestilence. "Now mine
eyes shall be opened, and mine ears attent un-
to the prayer that is made in this place," 11
Chronicles chap. vii. One Temple was sufficient
in those days but now many are necessary, to
perform the work of the last days; and let us
be diligent in assisting to build our temples,
that our Father in heaven will commune with
us, and turn away our afflictions; the canker
worm, caterpillar, and all devouring insects, our
enemies, and all sin; that we may go into these
holy temples with clean hands, and pure hearts
and rejoice in the God of Israel, who has ac-
counted us worthy to build temples to his holy
name, wherein we can attend to the redemption
of our dead; open the prison doors and let the
captive free.
	"Behold I will send my messenger and he
shall prepare the way before me, and the Lord,
whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his Tem-
ple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom
ye delight in: he shall come, with the Lord of
hosts." But who may abide the day of his
coming? Malachi chapter iii: "And I will
come near to you to judgment, and I will be a
swift witness against the sorcress, and against
the adulteress, and against false swearers, and
against those who oppress the hireling in his
wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and that
turn aside the stranger from his right, and fear
not me; saith the Lord of hosts." Also 5th
and 6th verses last chapter, "Behold I will send
you Elijah the prophet before the coming of
the great, and dreadful day of the Lord."
	"And he shall turn the hearts of the fathers
to the children, and the hearts of the children
to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth
with a curse."
	Many prayers were heard and answered in
the Temple at Jerusalem. Zacharias was pro-
mised a child the forerunner of Christ. Han-
nah was blessed by the high priest Eli, in the
house of the Lord, and had a son. Samuel
who was a mighty prophet was raised up in
that house. The Latter-day Saints have also
been blessed in the temples that have been
built, and many things made known by vision,
revelation, and the pure and the holy Spirit of
the Lord, has been poured out in great abund-
ance.
	What a great satisfaction it will be to those
who give their mite toward the great and noble
work, the building of the temples of the Lord
in the last days, to bring about God’s purposes
for the winding up scene.
						M. A. M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Sep. 6th, 1881.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	SOPHIE MAY has a new book for girls in
preparation. The title is, "The Odd One."

	THE Athol Transcrpit publishes a long list
of tax-payers in that town. Of the four
highest taxpayers, one is a woman. The Tran-
script is willing women should be taxed,but not
willing they should have any voice in the use
or amount of the tax.

	THE sending of medical women from Eng-
land to India is likely to be an established cus-
tom. The Indian women are averse to treat-
ment by physicians not of their own sev. The
statistics of the British medical service in
India show that the women have rarely
availed themselves of prescriptions or attend-
ance. A staff of trained women is proposed
as a part of the public service in India, a de-
portment coordinate and not subordinate to
the existing medical bureau.—Ex.


Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

