VOL. 11. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1882.			No. 4.


ALL HAIL TO THE DAY.
	SONG FOR THE CELEBRATION OF THE FOURTH
		OE JULY, 1881, IN SALT LAKE CO. WHICH ON
		ACCOUNT OF THE ASSASSINATION OF PREST.
		GARFIELD DID NOT TAKE PLACE.
	All hall to the day when the Standard of Freedom,
		Bright Phoeix arose o'er proud Tyranny's grave:
	Loud cheers for the vet'rans whose hearts swelled with
			courage
		Ere th' conquest was won by the sword of the brave.
	All hail to our sacred, diving Constitution--
		That heav'n-inspired gift, stamp'd with virtue's life-
			lease;
	We crown with rich gems of true, loyal devotion,
		That bulwark of Justice--that trophy of Peace.
	Those statesmen knew not that Jehovah was guiding
		Their thoughts and their moves, in those soul-trying
			hours,
	When their names they aflix'd to the bold Declaration
		of national Rights and all national Pow'rs.
					Chorus.
	With Washington--know as the Sire of his country--
		In th' annals of honor, their names are enroll'd:
	Their mem'ries are dear to all lovers of freedom--
		Enshrined in true hearts with the sages of old.
						Chorus.
	Should traitors presume, with oppression's foul daring
		From th' dear Constitution, to sever one thread:
	The vengeance of God, shorn of m[x]rey's forbearing,
		Will follow with blight the perfidions tread.
						Chorus.
	The banner that waves o'er the mountains of Ephraim,
		Endow'd with insignia our fore-fathers won:
	We'll honor, preserve, and unsullied bequeath it,
		To bless generations while time shall roll on.
	All hail to our sacred diving Constitution;
		That heav'n-inspired gift, stamped with virtue's life-
			lease:
	We crown with rich gems of true loyal devotion,
		That bulwark of Justice--that trophy of Peace.
								E. R. S. S.


(Column 1)
A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN
   MARY ISABELLA HORNE
		  Continued. 
Any one who reads this sketch of  Mrs.
Horne's life may readily perceive that she has
had many difficulties to encounter, and her
path has not been a smooth one. She is pos-
sessed of indomitable energy of character,
which is exceedingly well balanced by her
excellent judgment, making her an efficient
leader and wise counselor among her sex. Her
own example is consistant with her teachings,
which gives her great influence among the
people. She is motherly and affectionate with-
out making a display of it, and conseguently
attracts and pleases those with whom she is
associated. She has the gift of faith in the
healing of the sick, and, to a great degree, in
her own family. In the Spring of 1845 her
babe, Richard, was taken very sick and re-
duced so low that all the family, except her-
self, gave up all hopes of his recovery. Mrs.
Horne sat watching and praying for him, when 
the spirit impressed her to write her prayers
The influence was so strong it seemed irre-
sistible, and she followed the dictates of the
Holy Spirit, receiving an assurance that the
		[column 2]
child would speedily recover. The prayer was
written in poetry, just as the words came to
her, and she has kept it carefully ever since.
There are six verses of four lines. It is an
earnest appeal to the throne of grace, a dedica-
tion of the little one to the Lord, and a testi-
mony that the prayer was heard and would be
answered by the healing of the babe (-) including
the blessings asked which were sealed upon
him.
	Shortly after this manifestation of power
other members of the household were taken
severely ill, but by faith in the Lord and the
power of his priesthood, her children were re-
stored to health, but a relative of her husband's
died. She had a trying time and scenes that
were hard for mortality to endure; but by
patience, meekness and a firm reliance upon
her  heavenly Father she was able to pass
through it all.
	In January 1846 Mrs. Horne went into
the Nauvoo Temple to recieve the ordinances
of the House of the Lord. In this she rejoiced
greatly, and felt blessed in the privilege. She
spent two weeks there in assisting in the work
of administering in the ordinances for others,
and was filled with joy to be able to act in this
capacity for her sisters; realizing the blessing
of the Lord upon the work daily and hourly;
officiating in sacred ordinances as did holy
women of old, in ancient Temples. In the
following month, February, Mrs. Horne's hus-
band, with many of the Saints, began making
hurried preparations to leave the city of Nau-
voo; he closed his business and provided teams
and such necessaries as could be h(--)tily pro-
cured. Mrs. Horne had two child(---) sick at
the time and was herself in delicate health--
many of her friends thought it preposterous
for her to undertake such a journey in the
dead of winter, but her faith and courage
were equal to the emergency, and with her
husband and little ones she bade again adieu
to the home to which she had become endeared,
and crossed the Mississippi river, in cold and
snow and camped with the Saints already
gathered there on Sugar Creek in Iowa. There 
on account of unavoidable circumstances Mr.
and Mrs. Horne and others remained six weeks.
The weather was very cold, and the sickness
and hardship to anyone, except a Saint of God,
would have heen almost unendurable. In the
latter part of March they lift Sugar Creek to
jonrney westward towards the rocky Moun-
tains. The storms were fearful, the roads al-
most impassable. No one unless having had a
similar experience would possibly realize the
trials, hardships and privations of that terrible
journey. At Garden Grove, a stopping place
made by the first company of Saints going
west, Mrs. Horne and family stayed about
three weeks, and about the middle of May re-
sumed the toilsome journey. At Mt. Pisgah,
another resting place, some distance further
on, Mrs. Horne remained a short time and a
daughter was born to her there in a wagon.
There were few comforts and no delicacies, and
yet the sisters endured these ordeals of suffer-
ing without a murmur. There was no bitter-
ness towards their enemies, those who had com-
pelled them to leave their homes, no repinings
at the dispensations of Providence, but all
was love and peace and good will. The
daughter was called Elizabeth Ann, and when
the babe was three days old, Mrs. Horne started
again on her way towards the Missouri river
arriving at Council Bluffs about the last of
		[column 3]
June. Here was built what we term Winter
Quarters, now called Florence. In that place
in a log cabin Mrs. Horne took up her abode
with her little ones around her. The Saints in
common had many severe experiences, while
in Winter Quarters, and Mrs. Horne was not
exempt from her share. The water of the
Missouri was very unhealthy, the people were
poor, and sickness set in, and the graveyards of
the Saints testify to the terrible afflictions to
which many hundreds succumbed. Mrs.
Horne’s family, as well as many others, were
afflicted with scurvy, in consequence of not
being able to procure suitable food, having
been almost entirely deprived of vegetables.
Mrs. Horne was brought very low and it was
thought could not recover; she had faith in the
priesthood and desired to live. Elder Orsen
Pratt, one of the Apostles, administered to her
and promised her that she should recover and
prophesied she should live to do a good work
in Isreal. She was better almost immediately 
and in June of the same year left with the 
first company across the plains that followed
the pioneers to the valley of Salt Lake. That
was indeed a remarkable journey, and all 
those who traveled hither at that time deserve
the honored title of pioneers; they were the
ones who opened the way and braved the perils
of the desert and the experiences of actually
living in this sterile land. They ploughed and
planted and fought against the fearful odds of
crickets, grasshoppers and droth. The company
in which Mrs. Horne traveled arrived here on
the 6th of October 1847, and as soon as the Fort
was completed she moved into it and lived
there in a log cabin the next two years, endur-
ing all the exigencies incident to the settling of 
a new Indian country; among which were liv-
ing on short rations, a part of which consisted
of roots and thistles. On the 16th of January
1849, another daughter was added to the Horne
family and the mother called her Leonora
Taylor, in honor of her dear friend and associ-
ate, the first wife of Prest. John Taylor.
				To be Continued


Take your stand by the altar of truth, and
be not led or driven thence by sophistry or ridi-
cule.
	The roses of pleasure seldom last long
euough to adorn the brow of him who plucks
them, for they are the only roses which do not
retain their sweetness after they have lost their
beauty.
	MISS Anthony: "Give the ballot to women
and I will warrant you that we will
crush the life out of the monster intemperance.
There seems to be a great change coming
over the destiny of women. An immense
wave is lifting her up all over the world, and
we find in almost every country a new demand
for education, for domestic freedom and for
civil and political rights, made by women in
behalf of their sex. Women have passed
through the savage age where they were merely
beasts of burden for their masters; they have
passed through the heroic age where they were
not only free, but specially honored, and of
which Tacitus wrote that the Germans thought
that thousands of women were nearer to the
Deity than men, and therefore they were
always consulted with respect, but women
will yet reach a higher glory in this, the intel-
lectual age."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MER WHITNEY.

	The next important event, which I remem-
ber in our  family, was the birth of my brother
Charles S. which happened Jan. 2d, 1843.  I 
confess that I was a disappointed and most un-
grateful girl when hearing the news, as I had
so long desired a little sister; and my feelings
were so soured, that I said some harsh and un-
becomings things, and was determined not to
welcome the little stranger.  I tried to steel
my heart against him, but in spite of me the
love would come.  My mother being in a 
feeble state of health I had to take almost the 
whole care of him during the first year of two.
He was very delicate and had some severe
spells of sickness, and my love and tender
care increased with the days and months and 
I never wearied of my charge.  When about
two years old he became strong, healthy and 
the pride of my heart.  The pleasure I felt
in dressing and taking him out with me was
quite equal to all that I had ever anticipated
in a little sister, and even my affection for him
surpassed any that I had ever felt for a baby.
	Though I have not the date I remember the
birth of another son by my father's wife Sarah
which happened not far from the time that my
mother's was born.  I had no knowledge then
of the plural order, and therefore remained
ignorant of our relationship to each other un-
til after his death, as he only lived a few
months.  It's true I had noticed the great
interest by my parents in behalf of 
Sister Noon, but knowing their kind benevolent
natures towards every body that came under
their notice, I thought nothing strange of this;
but I will confess that, during those times, I
thought my mother overly kind to always take
her to her buggy and crowding me out of 
what I considered, my place by her side; and 
I sometimes felt to complain, but unless I was
willing to sit behind on a lower seat, I was
welcome to walk or remain at home; but, not
caring to do either, I generally submitted,  as 
gracefully as possible. to ride behind.
	My mother was possessed of a most kind and 
unselfish nature, and her life was filled up
with just such noble, self-sacrificing deeds; and 
by them she won the love of all; and among
 the most devoted were my father's faithful
wives, who admired him more because they
knew he loved her best; and with him they
mourned for her as their dearest and most
enduring friends.
	He was often heard to say that he did not
care how soon he followed her, and he lived
but nine months to mourn her loss.
	The following extracts from letters written
by my father while upon his mission with
Brigham Young and others in the southern
part of Illinois I copy, with the hope that some
benefit may be derived from the persual of 
them, more particularly the young and inex-
perienced.  They show the childlike humility
and sincerity of heart, such as none but an 
honest man, could feel and express, and none
other would ever take the step that he did,
nor continue to endure such heart-aching sor-
row, as I know he did, for the wife of his
youth, who with him in that early day yielded
obedience to a principle that required life-long
sacrifice and self-denial.  Their all was laid
upon the altar, to gain that glory which the
Lord had given my mother a slight glimpse of,
in answer to her humble heart-broken prayer.
"Where there's no cross there's no crown."
	I think that no honest heart can read the 
outpourings of his soul and ever doubt the
motive that prompted him to take upon him-
self burthens and responsibilities, such as him-
self and brethren were called to do, in marrying
a plurality of wives, for it did not add to their
domestic happiness in this life, but brought
not only anxiety, care and sorrow but placed
their lives in jeopardy, and they did not know
but the consequences would be imprisonment
and death; but they knew that it was a com-
mand from the Almighty and they obeyed God
rather than men.
	This letter bears the date of Oct. 23rd, 1842.
	"My dear Vilate: I am at Brother Evan
Greene's.  We have held all of our confer-
ences, have had two meetings to day being the
Sabbath.  Some have been aided to the 
church and prejudice is considerably  laid.
Monday we shall go to Jacksonville, then on
to Springfield.  I shall be home in two or
three weeks if the Lord wills it so.  Since I
left you it has been a time of much reflection.
I feel as though I was a poor, weak creature
in and of myself. and only on God can I rely
for support * * I have been looking back
over my past life before I heard the Everlast-
ing Gospel.  It makes me shrink into nothing
and to wish that I had always been a righteous
man from my youth, but we have an advocate
with the Father, and I can look back since I 
came into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints with a degree of pleasure; but I 
can see if I had more knowledge I could have
done better in many points. * * I feel as
though I had rather die to-day than be left to
transgress one of his laws, or to bring a dis-
grace upon the righteous cause which I have
embraced, or a stain upon my character; and
my prayer is day by day that God would take
me to himself rather than I should be left to
sin against Him, or betray my dear brethren
who have been true to md and to God the
Eternal Father; and I feel to pray to thee, oh
Lord to help thy poor servant to be true to
 thee all the days of my life, that I may never
be left to sin against thee of against thine an-
ointed or any that love thee, that I may have
wisdom and knowledge how to gain thy favor
at all times, for this is my desire, and that
these blessings may rest upon my dear com-
panion, and when we have done our work on 
this thy foo [---]ol that thou wouldst receive us
into that kingdom where Abraham, Isaac and 
Jacob and all the holy prophets have gone,
that we may never be separated any more, and 
before I should be left to betray my brethren
in any case, let thy servant come unto thee in
thy kingdom and there have the love of my
youth, and the little ones that thou hast given
me. * * Now my dear Vilante stand by me
 even unto death, and when you pray, pray that
I may hold out to the end. * * My heart
aches for you and some times I can hardly
speak without weeping and that before my
brethren; for I have a brokem heart and my
head is a fountain of tears.  My life in this
world is short at the longest and I do not de-
sire to live one day only to do good and to
make you happy and bring up our little
children in the ways of the Lord, and my
prayer is that they may be righteous from the 
least to the greatest. * * The world has 
lost its charms for me, and I want to seek for
that rest which remains for the people of God.
I never had a greater desire to be a man of 
God than at the present, that I may know my 
acceptance with Him."
	His next letter was written from Spring-
field Oct. 25th.
	"My dear companion: I have just returned
from the office where I found a letter from you,
and I need not tell you that it was a sweet
morsal to me.  I could weep like a child if I
could get away by myself, to think that I for
one moment have been the means of causing
you any sorrow; I know that you must have
many bad feelings and I feel to pray for you
all the time, I assure you that you must have not
been out of my mind many minutes at a time,
since I left you.  My feelings are of that kind
that it makes me sick at heart, so that I have
no appetite to eat. My temptations are so 
severe it seems sometimes as though I should
have to ley down and die, I feel as if I must 
sink beneath it. I go into the woods every
chance I have, and pur out my soul before
God that he would deliver me and bless you
my dear wife, and the first I would know I
would be in tears weeping like a child about
you and the situation that I am in; but what
can I do but go ahead?  my dear Vilate do
not let it cast you down for the Lord is on
our side; this I know from what I see and rea-
lize and I marvel at it many times.  You are
tried and tempted and I am sorry for you, for
I know how to pity you.  I can say that I
never suffered more in all my life than since
these things come to pass;  and as I have said,
so say I again, I have felt as if I should sink
and die.  Oh my God! I ask thee in the name 
of Jesus to bless my dear Vilate and comfort
her hert and deliver her from temptation,
and from all sorrow and open her eyes and let
her see tings as they are, for Father thou
knowest our sorrow; be pleased to look upon
thy poor servant and handmaid and grant us
the privilege of living the same length of time
that one may not go before the other, for thou
knowest that we desire this with all our hearts
* * and then Father, when we have  done
to grieve thee be pleased to blot it out, and let
us be clean and pure before thee at all times,
that we may never be left to sin or betray
any one that believes on thy name; save us
from all this and let our seed be righteous; in-
cline their hearts to be pure and virtuous, and
may this extend from generation to generation,
let us have favor in thy sight and before thine
angels that we may be watched over by them
and have strength and grace to support us in 
the day of our temptation that we may not be
overcome and fall.  Now my Father these are
the desires of our hearts and will thou grant
them to us for Jesus sake and to thy name
will we give all the glory forever and for-
ever--, amen."  
			To be Continued.


WHAT SOME WOMEN ARE DOING.

	Mrs. Mary E. Haggart was the orator at
the Fourth of July celebration at Miami, Ind.

	A meeting of women ministers will be held
in Boston on some day of the coming anniver-
sary week.

	Mrs. C. M. Raymond (ANNIE LOUISE CARY)
has given two hundred and fifty dollars to es-
tablish a free bed in the Maine General Hos-
pital.

	Miss Helen Gladstone, daughter of the
Premier, has accepted the vice principalship of
Newnham College, in place of Mrs. Henry
Sedgwick, who will resign in October.

	Twenty-five women physicians who took part
in the military operations of Russia in 1877,
have been decorated by the emperor with the
order of St. Stanislas of the third class.

	In 1880, eighteen young women were gradu-
ated from a school of technology in Boston.
Of these, eight found at once steady employ-
ment as designers in print factories; one in
pottery works; two in an oil-cloth manufactury
and one in a carpet mill.


Light is the first of painters.
	Do not be too lavish in your praise of var-
ious members of your own family when speak-
ing to strangers; the person to whom you are
speaking may know some faults that you do 
not.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT. 27


A DREAM AND AWAKENING.

I toiled 'till my weary fingers
	Groped over the long dark scam
Then dropped into fitful slumber,
	Of wild and feverish dream;
Where perplexities without number,
	Crossed ever my path between.

Just at the hour of midnight,
	At the last echoing chime
Of the church clock in the tower,
	I 'woke to bewail lost time,—
Time never restored hereafter,
	Though sought for with tears sublime.

Yet strove to resume my labor,
	To finish the task begun
That conscience might give the verdict
	Of 'well and faithfully done:
Most priceless reward of merit
	By tolling mortals won.

Then came through my curtained window
	Showers of silvery spray,
And all common things around me
	Rolled back with the dying day:
Leaving a halo of glory
	That gladdened my heart for aye.

The moonbeams flooded my chamber
	With glowing marvelous light;
While the rainbow hues of brightness
	Grew more dazzling to the sight,
A power unseen impelled me
	To take up my pen and write.

Sweet Love, the blessed Evangel
	Waved high her banner of gold;
'Till from brain and heart o'er burdened
	A torrent of feeling rolled.
Like pent up stream from the mountain
	No longer to be controlled.

And over a fair pure surface
	Swift arrows of thought sped on
Thro' the inky tide of blackness,
	'Till the golden light was gone,
And night had travailed with darkness
	Giving birth to coming dawn.
ATCHINSON, KAN.		L. M. HEWINGS.


[Column 1]

A TRIBUTE OF THE HEART.

	My mind has been much drawn out lately,
when dwelling upon the divine will and pur-
poses of God in creating his children and deal-
ing with them while here upon the earth, and
who are, as it were, transplanted, nurtured and
nurture in return; to grow and develop day by
day, and year after year, not only physically
but spiritually, with understanding of both
the means and privileges to the nourishing and
strengthening temporally and spiritually
and reflecting our sense and appreciation of
both, in our inner and outward lives, granted
and bequeathed to us by an allwise and benev-
olent Father, the giver of all good, light and
knowledge, from whom emanates every gift
and dispensation. Should we then be unmind-
ful of these great and beneficent blessings be-
stowed upon the human family, by such pro-
fuse and skillful hands, the Creator of us all?
I answer no, but rather let us, by the careful
tending, teaching and training of the same,
show that we, to a degree, are sensible of his
almighty goodness and loving kindness, in
granting us, through our parents in the garden
of Eden, an opportunity of working out our
salvation upon this planet, through the redemp-
tion of our Lord and Savior, who suffered and
endured so much for fallen humanity. Oh! let
us learn wisdom and exercise a little, if only
in our own behalf, to let our heavenly Father
know by our acts that we acknowledge his
goodness and mercy; let us not neglect to study
the laws of nature and the inspired will of
heaven, and to try to work out our course ac-
cordingly, and not be careless and abuse the
earthly tabernacles which are given us, in the
likeness of our Maker, wherein we may culti-
vate the same spirit which pervades the bosom
of our Father in heaven. Treasure your
bodies as you do your lives, for can you even

[Column 2]

enjoy transient life in an ill used and worn out
structure, ever needing repair and constantly
fearing and trembling lest it fall and we unpre-
pared? I believe the spirit of God is grieved
when we foolishly and unnecessarily expose,
and pay so little heed and respect to our
physical frame, seemingly ungrateful to the
great architect of our souls, who has so wisely
and uniformly fashioned every part and portion,
causing it to work with such perfect harmony,
and which taken care of will last a century, in
this degenerate day of the world. I say then
let us take care of our mortal bodies, be mind-
ful of the Giver, and preserve and nourish
them in health and strength that the spirit of
the Lord may dwell in them, untramelled with
sickness and disease; prepare yourselves to live
and do the will of God upon the earth, that
you may go forth doing much good in redeem-
ing mankind, and be living monuments to his
name, a name given whereby he may be known
among men. I appeal to the young who are
more inclined to be thoughtless and who have
not, neither are expected to have, the experi-
ence of those of more mature age; heed the
counsel and advice of your parents and teach-
ers in the Lord, for increased wisdom is given
them for you to profit by. Do not think you
are too old to learn, for that is a mistaken idea.
I heeded my mother's advice to avoid taking
cold and getting wet feet, for cold, she would
say, is the root of all diseases; the consequence
is I have a healthy tabernacle, wherein dwells,
I trust, a portion of God's holy spirit, to com-
fort, console and bless me under trials of var-
ious kinds, and which I have passed somewhat
corageously through, with the comforting
thought that they might have been worse,
and I was thankful they were not. The
Lord will have a tried people and where we
can we will be tried, so we must round up our
shoulders and prepare ourselves, for we know
not, in the wise providence of God, what we
will be called to pass through. Let us so order
our lives that we may kiss the rod, for whom
the Lord loveth he chasteneth. I am thankful
I can acknowledge his hand in all things, and
confidently say "thy will, O Lord, be done,"
also that I can discern the signs of the times.
	May we live so we can enjoy his spirit. The
predictions of ancient and modern prophets are
literally being fulfilled, surely we live in the
latter days. Let us gratefully acknowledge
the blessed privileges by which we are sur-
rounded in these beautiful vales, where we can
see and hear the inspired servants of God, and
if we should not be equally favored with nice
homes and as abundant means as some of our
neighbors, may we keep in view the mark of
our high and holy calling in Christ Jesus, and
not let envy creep into our bosoms and dis-
quiet us; but feel glad that they are so favored,
and hope they may be equally spiritually
blessed, to increase the good spirit which they
already possess. I enjoy the companionship of
such and award them every good wish and feel-
ing of my heart; friends indeed, of the same
faith trying to live their religion and actuated
by the same spirit. I can afford, and love to
feast upon the appreciation of such noble and
generous hearts, ever disposed to good deeds.
Hope has been my anchor in this life, and has
safely guided me through many a rough surf,
and may I never lose sight of the bark which
has so far steered me through unknown parts.
I pray earnestly for the spirit of God and ask-
ing comes not amiss, particularly in faith, hav-
ing confidence in my Lord and Master. To
the young readers of our valuable EXPONENT
I would say, put your trust in God, the maker
and giver of life present and to come, lose not
an opportunity of attending your Improve-
ment Associations, you can not afford it. You
who are desirous and should be anxious to
gain knowledge and intelligence, which is the
glory of God and by which you will be exalt-

[Column 3]

ed; there you can learn habits of good order
and rule, laws of health, laws of God and of
government, of yourselves, of nations and of
kingdoms, not only of this life but of a life
to come, bodily, spiritually and politi-
cally. Of such is the hope of Israel and may
it be answered upon the rising generation of
Zion, is my prayer.		M. A. T.
	Provo, June 18th, 1882.


A WORD FROM UTAH STAKE.

	The officers of the Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A.
of Utah Stake have just returned from a visit
to the southern settlements, which was made in
the interest of the organizations they represent.
	Springville Associations were found in a
flourishing condition. The presidency are do-
ing all in their power to make them successful.
The equal attendance of boys and girls was
quite an unusual feature, as there is generally
a greater number of girls. Active operations
for the coming Fair have already begun.
	The Associations of Spanish Fork are all do-
ing well, and the officers seem deeply inter-
ested in those under their charge. The Presi-
dent, Sister McLean, being absent attending to
her duties in the Deseret Hospital in Salt Lake
City, Primary Associations there were ably
managed by the two Counselors, although her
absence was a matter of regret.
	In Salem, the P. A. having suspended meet-
ing on account of the President moving away,
we reorganized the same, feeling sure those
chosen would carry on the work assigned them
in an able and satisfactory manner,
	There are four P. A. organizations in Pay-
son, the Presidents of which preside alternate-
ly at their public meetings.
	We found several new and interesting fea-
tures among the Payson Associations, namely:
They meet together jointly once a month. On
Fast days, verbal or written reports are sent
from each district, stating the condition of
their meetings; day schools are suspended to
enable the children to attend Fast meetings.
Under the able management of Bro. Stark, a
martial band, composed of Primary boys, has
been formed, who, at the close of the meeting,
played several tunes in a very creditable man-
ner, which delighted the children and was a
source of satisfaction to all.
	After the meetings in Payson, the President
proceeded to Benjamin, where a society was
organized, as no organization had previously
been made.
	In Santaquin the Primary and Y. L. M. I.
Associations meet together and were both in
prosperous condition. The programmes for
their general meetings attracted our special
attention.
	Arriving at Goshen, we were met by the
children in holiday attire, carrying a banner;
they surrounded our conveyance and sang a
sweet song; after which we repaired to the
schoolhouse, having a most interesting time.
The progress of the organizations has been
very marked.
	The Bishops and people generally showed a
great interest in the associations, and seemed
to be doing whatever they could in their be-
half.
	The Bishops sustained us in our labors and
remarks, and conveyed us from one settlement
to the other. All the meetings held were
largely attended by young and old; and the
Spirit of God attended us in our labors.
	A sociable was gotten up by the sisters in
Springville and Goshen, where the company
expressed their feelings, recited or sang for the
amusement of those present.
	We feel to thank God that the children are
having a chance to become more spiritual
minded through the meetings of these associa-
tions.			ZINA Y. WILLIAMS, Prest.
				SARAH E. CLUFF, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELNE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	JULY 15, 1882.


THE WAR IN EGYPT
One cannot but deplore the terrible war in the
East, which has already destroyed be many
thousands of human lives and desolated so
many hearts and homes; and all for power,
greatness and worldly ambition. It will perhaps
involve many nations, as it already has several
of the greatest powers in the land even in its
commencement. The beautiful city of Alexan-
dria, one of the oldest in the world, has been
the scene of blood and carnage, the conse-
quencess of a national difficulty, and even the
bombardment, the pouring of shot and shell and
the dreadful ravages created thereby was not
all—the city lies in ashes.
	It is said by those who believe in war, the end
justifies the means, but this is philosophy to
ease the conscience. Self-preservation is justif-
iable certainly, but the protection of property
and of rights for aggrandizement, another.
England said the Egyptians must go, but they
would not go without first trying what fighting
would do towards maintaining their position.
that is natural, and especially among those par-
tially enlightened nations. They love their
country, and they are determined to fight for it.
The British Empire has become a great one,
and with her ships, her men-of-war, ironclads, she
is determined to show Egypt and the Arabs her
power. There are a number of intricate questions
 involved, but money is at the foundation,
and unless the Lord wills it otherwise, England
will, without doubt, conquer or at least subdue
those foreign elements. It may be that this
war is the beginning of that prophesied of, that
is to involve all nations in the struggle. At any
rate the outlook at the present time is not a
pleasant one to contemplate, and when half-civ-
ilized nations will go to ward, one cannot but an-
ticipate the worst results of wholesale death and
destruction that could possibly follow.
	Various speculations are rife concerning the
coming of some great teacher or "Messiah," as
the Mussulmen term it. It is said by some
writers that the whole Mussulman world is agi-
tated with this matter and the predictions.
Some riots have already occurred among the
pilgrims on account of these great expectations,
and it is the belief of those best acquainted with
facts in relation to this feeling that a volcano of
human passion is rapidly nearing a state of
active eruption; this will, if true, prove of even
greater consequence than the war now in pro-
gress.
	As Latter-day Saints, we know these things
must be ere the great winding up scene that
will take place, when all the kingdoms of this
world become the kingdoms of Christ and He
whose right it is shall reign.


LIBERTY PARK ON JULY FOURTH.

	The Fourth of July was very appropriately
celebrated in Liberty Park, just south of this
city. The Park is a very suitable place for public


festivities, but will no doubt have more improve
ments made upon it from time to time, as the
city fathers shall deem wise and expedient.
His Excellency Eli H. Murray, Governor of
Utah, was President of the day. The orator of
the occasion was Judge P. T. Van Zile. His
oration was well written, comprehensive and
poetical. Responses to toasts were made by
the following gentlemen, Mayor Jennings pro-
posed the toast, "The President of the United
States." responded to by S. J. Jonasson. "The
Union, No North, No South, No East, No West
but one, inseparable now and forever," was res-
ponded to by Arthur Stayner. "The Constitu-
tion" by J. L. Rawlins. "Our Heroes Dead and
Living by Gen. McD. McCook. "Utah," by
O. J, Hollister. "The Press," by R. W. Sloan.
"The Industrial Arts.," by G. G. Bywater.
"Education: The Foster-mother of a Virtuous
Commonwealth," by J. M. Benedict. These
responses were, all of them, interesting and to
the point; if we had space we would gladly re-
publish them. The music was excellent and
the affair passed off most agreeably to all parties.
The fireworks during the evening, on the pub-
lic grounds, were undoubtedly the finest yet, in
Salt Lake City.


WOMEN DOCTORS.

	Dr. Romania B. Pratt, who returned from New
York early in the month of June, has opened
an office next to Dr. Benedict's, on Main Street
in Godbe, Pitts and Co's Building. While in
the East recently she studied under some of the
most renowned specialists in the eye and ear
nose, and throat. She has also made obstetrics
and diseases of women a special study. Dr.
Pratt's office is well fitted up with all needful
appliances for her profession, and she has the
newest and best inventions of instruments neces-
sary for the delicate surgical operations in her
class of work upon the eye and ear, as also the
needful articles for practical work. Mrs. Pratt
graduated from the Woman's Medical College
in Philadelphia more than five years ago, and
commenced practice in this city shortly after,
having become widely and favorably known
among physicians and among the people. Dr.
Pratt is connected with the Deseret Hospital.
	Dr. E. S. Barney is another woman physician
who has more recently attained the title of M.
D. and is now prepared to practice. With about
half a dozen ladies who have graduated with
honors, in the medical profession, and others
now in some of the best colleges and universities
in the United States. Utah may certainly make
a fair showing of women doctors. We would
hail with gladness a time when more attention
would be paid by young women to the studies
of physiology and anatomy, for their own im-
provement and the benefit of the next gener-
ation. Let us by all means have more lectures
on these topics, and use an influence to have
them well attended, that the daughters of Zion
may become acquainted with their own organ-
ism and the laws of life and health, that a
foundation may be laid for the prolongation of
human life and much pain and suffering be
avoided, through intelligent knowledge on these
subjects.


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	BROTHER Graves informs us that Miss Ca-
milla Schoenfeldt is going to Provo to teach silk
reeling to a class of young women.
	REORGANIZATION of Silk Association, Utah
Stake. Hester A. Beebe, President; Zina Y.
Williams and Lucy W. Kimball, Counselors; C.
Daniels, Secretary; Daniel Graves, Traveling
Agent.

[Column 2]

	IT is expected now that the five commission-
ers for Utah will be here some time in August.
What course will be pursued to enforce the Ed-
munds law is still a mystery. That those who
have anticipated such great results to follow its
enactment are already disappointed is apparent.
It is just possible that their disappointment has
only begun. The Lord will take care of His
people and overrule all things for the promotion
of His work, which is sure to grow and increase
and spread abroad in the land.
	WE had a very brief but pleasant call from F.
S. Richards, Esq., one of the delegates to Con-
gress from the recent Convention held in Salt
Lake City. He is feeling well, and reports that
he has been able to do quite as much in the in-
terest of Utah as he could have expected under
the circumstances. The Constitution has been
referred to a committee, and will come up in its
time. Meanwhile Congress will adjourn, and
there will be time for much thought and reflec-
tion upon the matter. The Constitution pre-
pared is before the public, and the affairs of Utah
and its people are up for discussion, and much is
being said and written; and tourists and travel-
ers are visiting this beautiful oasis in the desert,
and perhaps when Congress does act in the
premises, it will be done more understandingly
than it would have been earlier.
	THE dedication of the Deseret Hospital will
take place on Monday, July 17th, under the di-
rection of the First Presidency of the Church of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. Patients are being brought in, and the
actual work of the institution is in progress.
The dispensary is well fitted up with the neces-
sary medicines, drugs and material for the work
which is expected in the establishment. We
hope the people will take a liberal view of this
benevolent enterprise and contribute the neces-
sary means from time to time. It is not a spec-
ulation but a labor of love, and will require
great energy and perseverance on the part of
those engaged in its management, either in the
domestic or medical departments, in order to
render it permanently successful; and it cannot
be done by faith alone, but by substantial
means and the blessing of God upon such ef-
forts as are put forth in the right direction.
	EXPLANATION.—The two last paragraphs in
the article headed "Comments. By One who
Knows," were not from President B. Young's
discourse, but from Heber C. Kimball's. The
following explanation was written, but was
overlooked and left out of the copy by the
writer: "These discourses were delivered about
the time of the 'BUCHANAN WAR.' Their defeat,
as is well known, was accomplished through the
cunning and strategies of our little army, who
acted under the command of General D. H.
Wells and the wise counsel of 'Our fathers in
Israel.' The feeling to exult, which was in-
dulged in by the boys, was not unnatural, but
was unwise, and they were reproved and ad-
monished to repent, for, as President Young
often told them, many of them were 'more
willing to fight for their religion than they were
to live it.'" President Kimball said, "I do not
feel vain," etc.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Died at her residence in this city, "The White
House on the Hill" at 9 p. m. June 27th, Mrs.
Mary Ann Young widow of the late President
Brigham Young, at the advanced age of 79
years. Mrs. Young had been in ill health for
some years past, but was not considered danger-
ously ill until within a few weeks previous to
her death. Deceased was the daughter of
James W. and Phebe Morton Angell and was


[Column 1]
born in Ontario Co. New York, June 8th, 1803.
She heard and believed the Gospel in Providence,
Rhode Island in 1831, but was baptized in Avon
New York in 1832 by Elder John P. Greene.
Shortly after Miss Angell gathered with the
Saints to Kirtland, Ohio, where she was mar-
ried to Brigham Young, early in the year 1834,
Sidney Rigdon officiating in the ceremony.
Mrs. Young was the mother of six children
three of them had passed away previous to her
demise. Her eldest son Brigham is one of the
quorum of Twelve and John W., Counselor to
the Apostles. She has one daughter living,
wife of George W. Thatcher Esq. of Logan
and the mother of a large family. She leaves
many grandchildren and several great grand-
children and hosts of loving and tender friends
to mourn the loss of her society here on earth.
	Mrs. Young was one of the kindest and most
benevolent of women, always in sympathy with
the needy, the sorrowing and the unfortunate.
None were turned empty away who appealed to
her for relief or comfort. She was a natural
nurse and had she studied the science of medi-
cine would have excelled in the profeesion. Her
intuitions were keen in this dirrection and so
practical was she in her suggestions and methods
of treatment that the results often surpassed
the skill of the doctors. She was a woman of
great faith and spiritual in her nature, a woman
of prayer and conversant with the Holy Scrip-
tures. Humble and unassuming in character,
one whom no change in circumstances or fortune
could ever alter in her demeanor, towards her
friends or neighbors. True in friendship, firm
and unfaltering in her integrity to the Gospel,
she has endured unto the end, has fought the
good fight, gained the victory over death, and
gone to join her husband and dear one[-], to await
the first resurrection. Her trials and sufferings
here were severe but she bore all with meekness
and resignation and her reward will be sure.
Her life was a labor of love, rich in good deeds
that can never die, but whose fragrance will be
ever fresh in the hearts and memories of those
who have received blessings at her hands.
									E. B. W

	Died at Alpine City July 3d, 1882, Maria
Dunsdon Carlisle, she was born at Steeple
Ashton, Wiltshire, England Sept. 8th, 1800.
Embraced the Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in 1847; was baptized by Br. John
Halliday. Left her home with her husband,
Thomas Dundson, and one daughter, in 1851 to
emigrate to Utah. Buried her husband at
Council Bluffs and has since buried her daught-
er in Cache valley. Soon after her arrival in
Salt Lake City she was set apart by Br. J. M.
Grant to officiate as midwife, in which occupa-
tion she labored most faithfully up to the last
years. She was a kind, affectionate friend to the
sick and needy, and was never known to weary
in doing good by day or night. She was one of
the first to join the Relief Society in Alpine and
has ever remained a staunch supporter of the
same. She has been afflicted with cancer the
past three years which has caused her great
suffering; but was always full of energy and
ambition, and never gave up until the last few
days. She has had every necessary attention
from the sisters of the Relief Society, both night
and day for some months. We do not mourn her
loss, feeling satisfied that she had spent her
time in doing good, and lived to a ripe old age,
and hope to be as well prepared to come forth in
the resurrection morning.

	Died in the First Ward, Brigham City, Jan.
25th, 1882, Anne Catherine Holst, daughter of
Frederick and Catherine Holst; aged 18 years,
9 months and 19 days.

	April 28th, 1882, Mary Ellen Valentine,

[Column 2]
daughter of August and Mary Valentine, aged
16 years, 9 months and 7 days.
	May 10th, 1882, Anie Johanna Nielson,
aged 17 years, 8 months and 22 days.
	May 18th, 1882, Mary M. Fosgreen, daughter
of Peter A. and Christina Fosgreen, aged 16
years, 2 months and 27 days. All of typhoid
fever.
	The following resolutions of respect to the
memory of our beloved sisters who have left us,
were adopted by the Y. L. of the M. I. A.
	Whereas God, in his divine wisdom, has seen
fit to call from our midst these our beloved sis-
ters, who were highly respected by us all for
their many virtues, and estimable qualities, for
their punctual attendance and faithful labors in
our society,
	Therefore: be it resolved that we as members
of the Y. L. M. I. A., do deeply mourn the loss
of our beloved sisters, and fellow laborers in
our society, and that we truly sympathize with
their parents and friends in their great bereave-
ment, and unite with them in the hope of
meeting them again at the resurection of the
just; and be it resolved that we present a copy
of these resolutions to their respective parents,
and that a copy be published in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and also be recorded in our record-
book.
					Fanny Graehl, Prest.
					Janie Loveland, Sec'y.

Like roses in full bloom they have faded, taking a
	natural view,
But their spirits will live forever, among the faithful
	and true.
They died in full hope to rise in the resurrection of the
	just,
When the trumpet sounds to awake them, we shall
	meet them again we trust.
							MARY H. MORRIS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

OBITUARY.

	Died in Bountiful Davis Co. Utah Feb. 1882
Sylvia P. Sessions Lyon, in the 61th year of her
age. Deceased was born July 31, 1818 in Newey
Oxford Co. Maine, and was the daughter of
David and Patty Bartlett Sessions. She em-
braced the Gospel when a young girl and gath-
ered with her father and mother to Nauvoo in
the earlier settlement of that city. She was
married May 31, 1838 to Windsor B. Lyon Esq.
a prosperous merchant in that city. Sister Lyon
was a woman of most amiable disposition and
benevolent qualities of heart, and having been
greatly blest with an abundance of this worlds
good in times past she dispensed of her bounties
to the poor and distressed, liberally and unosten-
tatiously. To the Prophet Joseph Smith she
was a special friend, in times of peril and need.
Hundreds of the poor Saints have cause to bless
her for her kindly deeds and substantial comfort
in the hour of trial and sorrow. Mrs. Lyon suf-
fered much during the last few months before
her demise with dropsy and other ailments.
She leaves an aged mother, several children
and grandchildren and many other relatives to
mourn the loss of her companionship, but to
those who die in the faith of the Gospel there is
a more glorious hope of a part in the first res-
urrection. Sister Lyon had endured much for her
religion passed through many trials and made
great sacrifices.
	She has gone to the rest that remains for the
Saints, to meet Joseph and Hyrum and her
children who died in infancy. Blessed are the
dead who die in the Lord from henceforth
that they may rest from their labors, yea
saith the spirit their works do follow them.
		COM.
	At 2 o'clock, Thursday morning, June 29th,
after an illness of about three weeks, at the resi-

[Column 2]

dence of her parents in Hyde Park, Sister Eliza-
beth V. Hyde quietly breathed her last.
	Sister Hyde was the wife of Bishop William
Hyde, 5th Ward, Logan, and daughter of Suel
and Elizabeth Lamb, of Hyde Park. She was
born at Lehi, October 19th, 1855, and since her
marriage has resided in Logan. About three
weeks before her death, Sister Hyde went to
Hyde Park on a visit, where she was attacked
with inflammation of the bowels, which finally
terminated in her death.
	Sister Hyde was firm in the faith of the Gos-
pel, and zealous for the work of the Lord. She
was ever found in the path where duty called
her. For several years she was President of the
Y. L. M. I. A. of the Ward in which she re-
sided; a faithful Sabbath School teacher, and
from its organization was secretary of the 5th
Ward Relief Society.
	The funeral services were held at Hyde Park,
July 1st, at 3 pm. Apostle Moses Thatcher,
President C. O. Card and many of the residents
of the 5th Ward Logan; were present. Apostle
Thatcher delivered the funeral discourse.
	May she rest in peace and come forth in the
morning of the first resurrection, clothed with
glory, immortality and eternal life.

RESOLUTIONS,

	Of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association of the 5th Ward, Logan, June 30th,
1882:
	Inasmuch as it has pleased Almighty God to
take to Himself our dearly beloved and esteemed
President, Sister Libbie Hyde,
	Be it therefore Resolved, That while we
humbly bow in submission to the divine will of
Almighty God, we realize that we have lost a
loving President, a motherly adviser, and a firm
and faithful defender of the principles of the
Gospel.
	Resolved, That while life with us remains
that we cherish her past diligence and efforts in
teaching us the principles of the Gospel and
promoting our interest.
	Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathies to her bereaved husband and parents in
their bereavement.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
spread upon our minutes and one presented to
her bereaved husband.
		MARY PARRY. Secretary.

	Died, in Centerville, Davis County, Utah, at
the residence of her father-in law, Charles Dun-
can, May 22nd, 1882, Harriet Maria Lucas, be-
loved wife of John Duncan; born at Daventry,
Northhamptonshire, England, February 18th,
1858; baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, June 29th, 1866; emigrated
to Utah, November 12th, 1871; married to John
Duncan, December 25, 1876. She was a member
of the Relief Society and of the Y. L. M. I.
Association, ever ready to discharge any duty
incumbant upon her. She was a kind and an
affectionate mother, and leaves a husband and
two children, with numerous friends, to mourn
her loss.
	She was beloved by old and young,
		To whom her name is dear:
	Her praise now hangs on every tongue,
		Her record it is clear.
	As stainless as the driven snow,
	The record that she left below.
		CAROLINE DALRYMPLE.


Even the women of India are becoming in-
spired with the spirit of liberty, and are mak-
ing an effort, to emancipate themselves from
the old oppressive customs. a number of
Hindoo widows are preparing a memorial to
Queen Victoria, praying for relief against
caste, excommunication or re-marriage. -Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. Y.  M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

PROVO.

	Minutes of the fifteenth Quarterly Confer-
ence of the Relief Society held in Provo meet-
in house, June 2d, 1882.  Mrs. M. T. Smoot
presiding.  Counselor Mary John and many
of the leading sisters of Utah Stake present.
Prest. E. R. S. Smith, Coun. Zina D. H. Young
Presendia L. Kimball and Helen Mar Whitney
form Salt Lake City.  After the exercises of
singing and prayer, Mrs. L. W. Kimball Cor.
Sec. Relief Society Utah Stake read the min-
utes of the previous conference, which were
accepted. Reports were given from the First,
Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Wards Provo
also from Springville, Spanish Fork, Salem,
Payson, Santaquin and Goshen.
	Prest. M. T. Smoot said, I am happy to
have Sister Eliza, President of all the Relief
Societies wherever the kingdom of God extends,
with us again.
	Sister Eliza said, I feel very small, with
such an appellation, but pleased, however, to
listen to the various reports, and quite as much
edified as when listening to the bishops repre-
senting their several wards;  was gratified to
mark the improvement made by the sisters.
Prest.  Young said on one ocassion that if the
sisters would meet once a week they would
overcome their timidity,  the oftener they met
together the more of the spirit of God they
would enjoy. Said, we are not the self-sustain-
ing people we should be. We are now perse-
cuted by the nation instead of, as formerly, by
a county or state.
	There are a few who dare stand up for our
rights.  "I am not afraid, these wicked men are
tools in the hands of the Lord to try us, how
much farther He will allow them to go, we
know nit; but let us be determined to hold on
to the faith with renewed energy, and acknowl-
edge the hand of God in the "Edmunds bill.'
We want that faith in God that we would
rather meet death thn to swerve. There must
be a time, according to Scriptutre, when the
sinner in Zion will tremble.  Let us draw near
to our heavenly Father.  When the Kingdom
of God bears rule then the Saints will be free.
	When the Saints go back to Jackson County
we have the promise that "the Lord will go be-
fore you, my presence will go with you" and I
hope to be with you too, Bro Joseph said
when we got to the Rocky Mountains there
would be a great apostacy, and from there the
people would go south and from there to
Jackson County; and this generation should
not pass away until those things should come
to pass.
	These societies are of great importance, they
are for the perfecting of the mothers in Israel.
Let us wake up that we may feel the sweet in-
fluence of the spirit of God in our hearts con-
tinually.  Our father suffers trials to come
that we may be proven we are working to gain
a home in his presence.  I feel to bless you
and ask him to bless each one of us.  There is
a good spirit here to-day, and thanks be to God
for it.
	Singing.  adjourned until 2 P. M. Benedic-
tion.
	2 P. M.  Pleasant Grove, American Fork
and Lehi were represented in a most satis-
factory manner, showing united effort and faith
in God.  Alpine and Cedar not heard from.
	Sister M. T. Smoot said, I can say it is good
to be here, although not feeling at all well, but
am still in the gospel and feel happy, have
been edified in listening to the reports and feel
that it is by the power of God that the sisters
were overcoming their timidity, and can give
their reports in a clear and intelligent manner
without fear, we are truly on the increase in
good workds. We will not deny our religion.
No, not one iota of it.  We will trust in God
and know our redemption draws nigh. Wished
to speak in honorable remembrance of Sister
Emily Smoot, who since our last meeting had
been called away by death.  She had entered
into plural marriage with herself, and her
memory was very dear to her.  She had acted
wisely in that relation and gained her eternal
friendship. The speaker said if our enemies
could look in upon us to-day I think they
would be ashamed of themselves.  That we
may be saved with a fullness of glory is the
prayer of your humble servant.
	Sister Presendia L. Kimball was the next
speaker. Her heart was filled with gratitude
to God that she lived in this momentous age.
Our persecutions are a proof that we are
saints of God, and striving to do his will and
over come evil with good.  Thanked the Lord
that she had embraced the Gospel and for the
experience she had, it was of more worth than
riches for this was all she could take with her.
Rejoiced in the various organizations for the
salvation of the youth of Zion.  Plead with
the mothers to watch over their daughters and
teach them pure principles.  Asked the bless-
ing of God to rest upon us, that we might over
come, and be saved with the sanctified in his
kingdom.
	Sister Z. D. H. Young said, when I look up-
on the faces of my sisters I cannot express my
feelings.  Do we plead guilty, or not guilty of
trading with ansd sustaining our enemies? Let
us refrain from these things. and if we feel the
chastening hand of the Almighty for our re-
missess in keeping his commands, let us bear
it humbly; wherein we are guilty of not listen-
ing to the counsels of his servants, of speaking
evil of one another let us repent.  If there is
any thing I would wish to run away from, it is
a fault-finding tongue. Thanked God she
had kept the faith.  She said, how pleasant it
is to look upon the faces of those who love the
Lord.  The speaker said, any people or nation
that lives on this continent, and will not keep
the commandments of God will be swept off.
It is now, with us, the kingdom of God or
nothing.  Sister Snow said, we are preparing
to found a Hospital for the saints, with the
approbation of Prest.  Taylor.  It is a need
long wanted, any sister in good standing can
become a member, by paying $1,00 annually.
Quite a number subscribed and became mem-
bers.  Sister Snow said she wished to endorse
what Sister Smoot said,  in regard to  Sister
Emily.  The circumstance of her stepping for-
ward to help establish that principle, and
honoring her position as a plural wife.  Some
think it  a trying position.  I say it is one of
the most elevating and ennobling principles that
I know of.  I always felt at home at Bro.
Smoots as at my own father's house, and can
truly say that when their son Albert was
drowned it was hard to tell who sorrowed most,
the wives mourned alike.
	Sister Whitney and Bp.  Watson made a
few remarks.  Conference adjourned for three
months.				L. W. KIMBALL.
							Corresponding Secy-

OGDEN CITY.
	Dear Sister.-- The Ladies Relief Society of
Weber Stake held their Conference on June
8th.  The meeting was conducted by Prest.
Jane S. Richards.  Commenced with the usual
exercises of singing and prayer.  The minutes
of the previous meeting were read and adopt-
ed.  Sister Richards made a few excellent re-
marks, explaining the object of the gathering
and expressing great pleasure at having the
privilege of again meeting with her brothers
and sisters in conference.
	We also had the pleasure of Sisters E. R.
Snow Smith and Zina D. Young's company at
this time.  Both expressed great pleasure at

[Column 3]
being permitted to meet with this Stake of
Zion. Spoke at some length on various sub-
jects of great interest to us as a people, giving
us good and wise counsel.  They also related
some very interesting reminiscenes regarding
the experiences of the Saints in early days.
They blessed this stake of Zion, hoping it
would prosper and make progress in all things
pertaining to the kingdom of God.
	Bishop Robert McQuarie next made a few
brief and excellent remarks.
	The meeting then adjourned with singing
and benediction until two P. M.
	When it was continued there was a large
assemblage present;  all seemed to enjoy the
good spirit that prevailed.
	The conference was adjourned with singing
and prayer, for three months.
			Respectfully
					MONTA HARRIS.

								May 23, 1882.
	Annual meeting of the Primary Associations
of South Cottonwood.  Meeting called to
order by our president Sister Elizabeth Davis.
Singing.  Opening prayer by Brother Christian
Steffeson.  Singing by the children.
	There were present as visitors, Sister E. B.
Ferguson, Bishop Joseph Rawlins and many
of the children's parents.  The meeting con-
sisted of recitations and songs;  and Sister
Ferguson gave a breif sketch of her life while
away from Utah.  Others gave good instruc-
tions to the children. In the afternoon there
was a picnic and party.
			Elizabeth Davis, President,
			Emily Brinton, Secretary.


FAITH, MEDICINE AND THE DOCTOR.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Doctors have become a fashionable appen-
dage to every community; it is now only vulgar
poor people who do not have "the family
Physician." But here let me say at starting,
I do not intend to speak, or feel disrespectfully
towards the Faculty, for I have been associated
with some bright specimens of Escalapius that
in my estimation redeem the rest. It is the
absurd, and ridiculous notions of people that
I so utterly despise. A healer of the sick is a
blessed visitor, whether as a man or a woman
whether as a friend or nurse; blessed are the
attendants on suffering humanity. Faith i
necessary in all who apply for relief, it was
Galius maxim that "hope and confidence out
value the drug." In a very severe sickness,
many years ago, my Doctor said "now, you
must have faith in me or I can not do you any
good." I was much struck by the remark even
then, and since I have become a L. D. S. I
have often pondered on his words, and the
time in which they were uttered. That man,
surely understood much of the principle of
faith; and, as a physician, I had all faith in
his skill, and his administration, yet never for-
getting that "Except the Lord build the house
their labor is but lost that build it" and I have
often thought that, had many of our people
the faith in the administration of our Elders
as they had and have in the Doctors they
would at once experience the God-given gift
of healing, in a marvelous degree. "By faith,
the worlds were made," so say the holy Scrip-
tures; and many in our Church have seen the
effects of Faith, in healing the sick, and in
many instances, indeed no true L. D. S. but
has seen and experienced this blessed gift, this
wonderful power! The gift of healing seems
to belong especially to some individuals, prob-
ably is an especial gift to them, and they seem
to have an instinctive knowledge that under
their administration the patient will be healed.
This is a mystery, but none the less true; all


physicians feel this, more or less. Our Elders
have a perfect confidence in this predilection,
because they know they are "endowed with
power from on high," and therefore, if magni-
fying their calling, the result will be sure; if
the sick are not "appointed unto death."
	There is also a great deal in the manner of
any one on entering a sick room; we will take
a Doctor, a good amiable man with a cheerful,
animated manner, a sympathetic, gentle spirit,
a confident, prompt, hopeful assurance; such a
man carries a healing power in his very voice,
and manner, and from the moment of his en-
trance the patient feels invigorated, cheered
and regenerated, and the healing has begun;
even a friendly visitor often has this power,
and when leaving the sick, one earnestly says,
come again, you always do me good; who does
not know this by actual experience. The suc-
cessful Doctor owes more to his manner than
to his drugs; his presence works deeper and
more effectually than his medicine, very often;
and surely this will apply in a much greater
degree to our Elders. They are ordained to
heal the sick by the order of Christ himself;
even by the laying on of their hands, and by
the prayer of faith, and the promise is the sick
shall be healed; there is no doubt about it, but
"they shall be healed." As I said before they
are ordained to heal the sick; but I would pre-
sume, as a mother in Israel, to advise our
young Elders to cultivate the manners I have
been portraying, to first realize the honor
that has been conferred upon them, the mighty
blessing of being a healer of the sick body—of
the bruised heart, of the wounded spirit! If,
with ordination, there is a manner cultivated
by the heart and the affections, and with a
holy and a touching sympathy with the suffering
there will then be the actual touch of the great
physician who gave the keys—not of science,
but of personality, opening the laboratory of
Heaven, by the touch and prayer of faith.
	The Doctor operates by skill of character
more often than by skill of knowledge; it is the
active not the speculative part of his mind
that wins him professional eminence, and where
we find a man with this insight into the char-
acter of his patients, you find a Doctor sought
for with a faith that were it exercised in the
church of Christ, would acheive wonders. God
gives the ordinations, it is for man, his agent,
to carry them out with tact and talent, with a
knowledge of the human organism. Mentally,
morally and physically, "With the spirit and
with the understanding," and may we, as a
people, cultivate ourselves, that we may receive
all the good that is around and about us, even
Heaven itself if we were enlightened enough
to see and comprehend, appreciate and apply
that, that lies waiting for us to take up for our
own especial benefit, here and hereafter.
	Ignorance is a black veil that hangs more
or less over all minds, but many are aware of
it, and by prayer and faith are daily in school,
attempting to light as far as possible the sable
cloud. Ignorance is not bliss to the culti-
vated soul; intelligence is of God. and only
by it can we approximate nearer to Him; and
the more our spirits are enlarged on earth the
deeper draughts shall we recieve of Heaven.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 31


[Column 1]
ON MORMONISM.

	Our true name is Latter-day Saints; but the
world calls us "Mormons" and I for one find it
more convenient to adopt that name when I
wish to be understood by all.
	Therefore, in these remarks I shall refer to
ourselves as "Mormons," and our religion as
"Mormonism." It is very easy indeed to state
in general terms what our religion is, but it
would take volumes—yes, ages to delineate it,
because it is so all-embracing, so all-pervading
Mormonism is truth.

[Column 2]
	All truth is Mormonism. No matter how
high, how low, how vast, how minute, how
universal or how limited a truth may be, that
is Mormonism.
	If you have learned a truth which my mind
cannot yet grasp, in that instance you are a
better Mormon than I. If you cultivate any
grace, virtue or excellence in a greater degree
than I, there again you excel me as a Mormon,
for Mormonism includes all that is lovely,
pure and ennobling, because they are lovely,
pure and ennobling.	*	*	*	
	When I was very young I pondered much
on the cold-hearted selfishness of any little
sect which was so small a drop of the great
ocean of humanity which never heard of them
or their creeds, having the temerity to believe
that just those few whose circumstances per-
mitted them to become acquainted with that
particular set of creeds would be saved in the
celestial kingdom, while all the rest of God's
vast family would be rejected and cast away.
But when I learned that Mormonism proved
wide enough to cover both the living and the
dead, my soul was comforted; and here I found
reasonable ground for faith that God was the
author of it. We build Temples which are
dedicated to the Most High, and therein we
perform ordinances for the dead, because we
believe that on earth and not in heaven is
the proper place for baptism, ordination etc. 
We believe that many who preached to and
taught the children of men while in the flesh,
now that they have put off their mortality and
passed "behind the vail," still continue their
ministry and will continue it until all who
died without hearing Christ's true message
to man, and God's will concerning his
children, will hear it and understand it; and it
is their right to accept or reject the message
and ratify or repudiate the ordinances and
covenants which we make for them on earth.
Thus we have the privilege of being co-work-
ers with Christ and his faithful Apostles in the
plan of redemption; and we are assured that
when we have performed "the work" for all
whose names are obtainable from records,
histories and other human sources, the millions
of unknown and unrecorded dead will be re-
vealed to us.
	The magnitude of the undertaking would
be too appalling for poor human endeavor
were not God at the helm! But we are not
required to make any unreasonable haste, nor
neglect to provide for the wants of the living
either in physical nourishment, intellectual
cultivation or spiritual teaching. And ours is a
progressive religion. We do not dare suppose
that we are in possession of all truth, nor even
a sufficiency of it. We expect to progress
throughout all time and all eternity; to be always
learning, always improving, always achieving.
Any truth which is not known to us today, we
hope to learn tomorrow; and we pray for grace
and feel the need of it, to recognize truth when
ever we meet it, and to be always willing to
accept it.
	We consider God, and him alone, infallible;
therefore his revealed word to us cannot be-
doubted, though we may be in doubt some
times about the knowledge which we obtain
from human sources, and occasionally be
obliged to admit that something which we had
considered to be a fact, was really only a
theory.
	The Golden Rule: "As ye would that men
should do unto you, do ye even so unto them"
is our first and most important law: and were
we freed from human weakness and blindness
so far as to apply this incomparable law consist-
ently, justly and exactly, we should really have
no need of any other law, statute or command-
ment; for even the Decalogue is but auxiliary
to this, a sort of bill of particulars for our
assistance as little children yet studying the

[Column 3]
rudiments of salvation, and are obviously in
eluded in this great fundamental law of love
and justice.
	We believe that Adam and Eve by breaking
God's command, incurred the penalty previous-
ly attached to that command, or rather the
breaking of it—sorrow, pain and death.
	We believe that Christ, who was already a
redeemed being and not subject to those penal-
ties, obtained his Father's permission to be-
come subject to them and suffer them in his
own person for the reward, the happiness of
opening the doors of the resurrection, and re-
deeming from death the children of Adam and
Eve who inherited that legacy from their first
parents.
	We believe that all those who, within the
limit of grace, (and who can say how vast that
is) acknowledge him and accept his offered ser-
vice will, after atoning for their individual
sins, conquer death and enter into Christ's
kingdom at the right hand of the Father;
while they who reject him and his service are
at liberty to do so, and his atonement will
reach them, for "all is free grace and all
is free will," and "God will force no man to
heaven."
	We believe it to be obligatory on every
soul to seek after truth earnestly and faith-
fully but we do not believe that any human
soul will be rejected for being ignorant of
truth which it never met and never had oppor-
tunity to learn. The opportunity, full and
complete, will be offered before condemnation
will be uttered; therefore none need despair
save those who are willfully ignorant and re-
bellious, those "who love and make a lie,"
and who "call good evil and evil good."
							LU DALTON.


THERE IS NO WASTE.

	Waste is a crime. Perhaps the statement
should be qualified. It is a crime where it re-
sults from neglect, or where it is due to ignor-
ance that follows indifferent knowledge.
It is a crime wherever human forethought
and ingenuity have rendered it possible to pre-
vent waste. In this great world of ours, the
perfection of whose creation, and whose laws
seem the more complete the more they are un-
derstood, how can it be that there should be a
natural waste? Will any person, who believes
in the existence of a deity, or who recognizes—
and all must do one or the other—a supreme
power, venture the assertion, that the vast and
incomprehensible wisdom concentrated in the
creation and destiny of this world, could en-
dure a waste of any kind? It is impossible.
Is there any waste in nature? The most tri-
fling leaf, the smallest of the animal kind, the
most detestable worm, all have a reason for
their being, all fulfill the necessities which
called them into existence. There is no waste
among them; they know not such a thing; only
in human beings, endowed with intelligence,
and created in the image of the Almighty, is
such a condition as that of waste a possibility.
	Of the thousands of articles—it may be old
and useless for the purpose for which they were
made—which are thrown away year after year
and by poor families, there is scarcely one
which is not of some value, and which could
not be utilized in some industry. It is true
that, in a community like ours where manufac-
tures are few, it is impossible to utilize many
of these things; but still there is a waste, a
needless waste, and care on the part of many,
and a little energy on the part of a few would
soon result in new industries, and new manu-
factures making the people wealthier for the
care, and more self-sustaining for the energy.
Let us give an illustration.
	Many, years ago when gas was discovered in
England, and its utility as an illuminating


[Column 1]

power established, a refuse was left from the
coal which had been destroyed as a fuel in the
manufacturies of gas. This refuse was called
"coal tar." As the consumption of gas in-
creased, the quantity of coal used in its manu-
facture also increased, and this resulted in a
corresponding increase in the "coal tar." It
grew so fast, and seemed so utterly worthless
that it was a nuisance. What to do with it
was the cry; and a premium was almost offered
to those who would carry it away. During
this time, and while the "coal tar" evil attained
greater magnitude, a chemist (I think his name
was Perkins) was analyzing "coal tar," and at-
tempting to form a combination of some kind
from it, what that was I also forget. He
worked at it for weeks and months with out
success. One day, however, when almost dis-
heartened at the repeated failures he had made,
he discovered that by a new combination, an
entirely different result had been obtained from
that anticipated. He stopped and examined
it, and that examination proved the most fortun-
ate of his life; for the chemical combination
was one which has since become a household
article, and is one which is productive of the
utmost pleasure to the eye. It was a combin-
ation for which they now celebrate and valu-
able analyne dyes are made. "Coal tar" was no
longer a waste; it was of value, was eagerly
sought for, and became a thing of value and
profit instead of a nuisance to the gas compan-
ies.
	True, this is one instance; but there are
thousands. Ask the chemist who sees the pro-
fusion about us if there is any waste; he will
sigh and say, there seems to be nothing but
waste. That is a waste which is destroyed
or is allowed to be destroyed when it could be
utilized with profit to some one.
	But, there I started to say "There is no
waste," when the burden of my song has been
to show that there is nothing but waste. What
I did start out to say was that there is no
waste in nature; but, like a school boy, I al-
lowed myself to be lured away from the path
I should have followed, and instead of wander-
ing amid flowers and pleasant ways, I fell into
weeds and rocky places.
	I have heard men declare (and I will not
claim to be free from the charge myself) that
it was a sin to see so much land lying idle, be-
cause it did not happen to rain just when they
wanted, or because water did not flow as near
as they might desire it. What! nature tolerate
a waste! as well say she does not abhor a vacu-
um. There is no spot in the wide world that
cannot be made of some value to man; so kind
is the nature and the God we so much com-
plain of. On the dry bench, the sage-brush
and sunflower will grow and thrive, both of
which are of acknowledged use, though their
utilization may not now be as profitable as are
the cultivation of other articles. The sage
has medicinal and other properties, perhaps, not
yet discovered. The much despised and
thoroughly abhorred sunflower—I speak now
as a gardener, not as an Oscar Wilde—is of
value. Its stalk can be manufactured into
paper, the fibre being excellent, while from
the seed a valuable oil can be expressed.
There is no spot on earth which nature has
destined to be an eternal waste. For up un-
der the Alpine and Sierra snows a plant grows,
and has a purpose or it would not be there;
and the vast desert areas will yet, when the
knowledge of man is sufficiently increased, prove
that nature is the embodiment of economy,
as it is the embodiment of perfection in all other
respects. I am not a prophet and do not think
I will ever be good enough to be so beloved of
the Lord as to become a prophet, but I have
such unbounded confidence in the common
sense at the bottom of this world's creation,
that I dare predict the day will yet come
when places now esteemed most useless,

[Column 2]

will prove to be another exhibition of the
kindness of a loving father, in preparing
means for the sustenance of his children on
this earth. Necessity, the mother of all inven-
tions, will yet discover a use for all things;
and will force her children to be careful of all
things, if they would be at least moderately
beyond the reach of poverty.
	SIMPLE SIMON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHESTER PRIMARY.
	There being no Primary "organ," I write
you a brief statement of the first Primary Fair
in this little place, held yesterday under the
patient, persevering presdient, Sister Emma
Heyward's careful supervision.
	The exhibition of work made by the boys,
of field-rollers, rakes andp laited bridle, etc.,
was particularly gratifying and somewhat in-
genious, but the little girls bore off the palm
in matters of taste, house adornments, etc.; to
enumerate occupies space, and to specially no-
tice where all was excellent would wound some
of the dear little ones who in honest pride
showed their best and prettiest.
 We were treated to a nice exhibition of well
selected pieces, among them "The little peace-
maker," "The beautiful snow," "Purse proud,"
"Fixing for Grandma," "Baby Lella," "Both
sides," "We are coming, Mary," and "Country
Girls."
	The committing of the dear impressional
souls to the care of such patient grandames as
Sister Heyward is wise and judicious; they
seem to live over again their girl life in the
enjoyment of the children; they are like min-
istering angels walking the earth for good.
These Primary nurseries are a good insti-
tution, and I sometimes think they need a
cheap organ to gather up and preserve their
history. 
					CHESTERFIELD.


Of vain things, excuses are the vainest,

	Justice is the Queen of all virtues. - Ciero.

	Habit is a cable. We spin a thread of it
each day.
	There is a remedy for every wrong and a
satisfaction for every soul.

	One grain of truth brings down the scales
against a world of error.

	Mrs. Sarah E. Franklin was a delegate from
Indiana to the state convention.

	More than half the newspaper in the world
are printed in the English language.

	Mrs. Helen M. Gouger, of Lafayette, and
Miss Florence Hardin, of Pendleton, spoke on
the Fourth of July at Anderson.

	A large number of young women graduated
from the Boston University this year than ever
before, From the School of Floral Arts there
were seven, from the Theological School one,
and from the School of Medicine thirteen.
Three were admitted to the degree of M. A.
- Miss Alice Leon Mumford, Miss Marion
Talbot and Miss Agnes Fitz Henry Williams -
and one to the degree of Ph. D. - Miss Marie
A. Molineaux. This lady is the second one
only who has taken this degree, Miss Helen
Magil being the other. - Ex.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
will hold its annual meeting this year at Oma-
ha, September 26, 27 and 28. On the 29th
and 30th the same speakers will hold a mass
convention in Lincoln. Boyd's Opera House
in Omaha, and Church's in Lincoln, have been
engaged for these evenings, so the suffragists
will have no rival attractions. Following
these meetings the speakers will divide into
three boards, holding two days' meetings at
these other important towns, and then from
these localities will separate for individual ef-
fort. - Ex.


Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODLE, PITS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a. m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
	EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT;
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Lades' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED
S. P. TEASDEL.

Z. C. M. I.
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands.
Children's Fine Shoes,
o--in the West. Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store,
Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting,
Flannels, White Yarns, Wool Batting,
Shawls, Colored Yarns, Brooms,
Linseys, Cassimers, Washboards,
Jeans, Tweeds, Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBARCH & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NO. 124&126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER,
Agent for RUMSEY's celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notices. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Addrees, David James, Box 300, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


Susan Grant
						WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
