CLOTHING FOR WOMEN PAST FORTY. 229 the front. This chemisette will serve two purposes — it may be a corset cover and a chemisette. For dressy occasions, take a fine piece of white muslin, put in tucks and lace insertion alternately. Join together insertion for collar, bone and finish with narrow lace. The high collar is again used, and is most becoming to the person with a long neck. The greatest change in the fashionable dress, is the decided and ever increasing width of the skirt. This feature is developed to the utmost in the spring models. We will aid the cotton industries if we make a one-piece dress in the new style. Use the inside belt mounting, have it long enough to go around the waist, and allow a hem at each end as a foundation for hooks and eyes. Bring the skirt up one inch and sew to belt. Fit waist to belt, and cover with belt or girdle. The skirt must fit snugly about the hips, no matter how full it is cut, or whether it be circular or plaited. Calico, gingham or lawn will make up charmingly in these one-piece dresses. Sombre and neutral colors are indicated for spring wear. Hooks and eyes will not drop off, if instead of sewing them on with over and over stitch, you use the button-hole stitch. An easy way to adjust snap fasteners, is to sew the ball section on first, and then cover the top with chalk, a slight pressure will mark the exact spot where the socket section should be placed. The Provo Woolen Mills are making a specialty of suits and separate skirts for women, in home-made goods. A woman should study her own style; hunt out your best points, and hide her poor ones. WHY WE OPPOSE POCKETS FOR WOMEN. 1. Because pockets are not a natural right. 2. Because the great majority of women do not want pockets. If they did, they would have them. 3. Because whenever women have had pockets they have not used them. 4. Because women are expected to carry enough things as it is, without the additional burden of pockets. 5. Because it would make dissension between husband and wife as to whose pockets were to be filled. 6. Because it would destroy man's chivalry toward woman if he did not have to carry all her things in his pockets. 7. Because men are men and women are women. We must not fly in the face of nature. 8. Because pockets have been used by men to carry tobacco, pipes, whisky flasks, chewing gum and compromising letters. We see no reason to suppose that women would use them more wisely. — Alice Duer Miller in New York Times. Home Gardening for Women. (How to Produce Two Crops of Strawberries in one Season.) While my friend and I were visiting through Utah county, late last November, we chanced to take dinner at the Hotel Roberts, in our beautiful Garden city, Provo; and to our surprise, found on the menu card, "Fresh strawberries and cream." Curious at once as to whether they were imported berries, or those put up fresh in bottles, we inquired of the maid who waited upon us, and found they were neither the canned nor imported berries, but raised on the East Bench, in Provo. We learned also that they were the second crop of the season — as succulent and crisp, and as fine a flavor as those produced in the early summer. So anxious were we to see the fruit growing, and to meet with one who had made it possible to successfully produce such delicious fruit, that our friend and President Mrs. Martha Keeler drove us up in her auto to the farm. Here we met Mr. A. O. Andelin, and we had the unique experience of seeing the berries growing, picked and packed for market. We inquired of him as to the kind of berry vines, he used, the method of producing them, etc. We asked Mr. Andelin if he would tell us just how to proceed with a strawberry patch, in order to have success. He was delighted with the idea, and the following is the method used, as related by him: "Have the berries well trained and mulched, and in early spring, cultivate and water them freely. They must of necessity, have good sunlight and rich sandy loam. After the first crop is gathered, mow off the tops rather close, cultivate between the rows and mulch again; let rest, without irrigating, for five or six weeks, then water as in early spring, and you will soon be rewarded with a fine second crop of strawberries, for which you will receive a handsome price." He said cultivation and fertilization were very important points to remember. We were at his farm about November 4, 1914, and though so late in the season, he still had a splendid crop yet to gather and market, selling them at 20c per cup. If any of our readers wish to communicate with Mr. Andelin, or secure strawberry plants from him, address Provo, Utah, care B. Y. U., and he will be pleased to accommodate you with plants or information, or both. In the Kitchen Laboratory. By Hazel Love Dunford. PAYING MORE THAN NECESSARY. There is scarcely a day goes by that the newspapers do not contain articles calling our attention to thousands and thousands of starving individuals. On all sides, we are asked to give aid to this or that fund, for the benefit of some poor creature far away, who is perhaps dying for the want of something to eat. One hardly dares to enjoy good, wholesome food for fear of robbing some fellow being of that which may rightfully belong to him. And yet authorities tell us if the American people would consent to nourish themselves scientifically and economically, they could take care of every starving person at home and abroad, without contributing a cent over and above that which would be saved by so doing. If this be the truth, isn't it about time for us to say, "about face" to ourselves, and get busy and learn how this right can be done? There are many things nowadays put on the market in the way of foods, to attract the eye. If goods are made to look nice, they are sure to sell. This point is a good one, but I'm afraid we are often times led away by it. We are apt to pay too much for the extra "good looks" of an article. The other day, a neighbor of mine telephoned the butcher for some chipped beef. "We don't keep it any more, except in glass jars. It is so much more sanitary," came the answer, and so she ordered a glass to be sent up, and she came in to show it to me; thirty cents and barely enough for dinner, and three adults in the family and two children. "I might as well have had a beefsteak," she said; and so she might, and at less expense, for when you consider the butter or drippings and the cost of milk to cream chipped beef, you have rather an expensive dish. And yet, when one serves chipped beef, one wants to feel that one is economizing. It is impossible to economize at this rate. Is there any reason that chipped beef should be sliced and put up in glass jars? Decidedly not. To really economize, one must be ever watchful, or one is sure to be "taken in" with just such buying. Foods that are put up in expensive packages, as a rule, cost from three to four times more than the same article sold in bulk. For instance, cornmeal, bran, cracked wheat, peanut butter, and so on; breakfast foods, especially those ready prepared, cost too much for the nutritive value they contain. Where one is studying strict economy, one better not buy such food simply because it comes in attractive packages.