The Textile Arts. By Rose H. Widtsoe. WOOLEN FABRICS. The most important fiber of animal origin is the wool of the domestic sheep. There are many animals whose hairy coverings are used for textile fabrics, but the sheep furnishes the best fiber. The use of wool for spinning and weaving reaches far back into prehistoric times. Just when or how man discovered the use of wool for making cloth is not known. The skeletons of sheep are often found with the skeletons of prehistoric man, showing that it was early a domestic animal; and because of its easy adaptability to spinning, wool may have been the first fiber so used. Certain authorities hold that wool spinning originated with the Egyptians and that they first spun flax; therefore when they began to spin wool after the manner of flax they produced the smooth, even thread later known as worsted, rather than the soft, loose thread of woolen. The Egyptians may or may not have been the first people to spin wool, although as far as can be discovered the textile arts reached in Egypt the highest development at so early a period. There are many varieties of the domestic sheep. Cultivation has greatly improved the character of the fiber, which is of two kinds: true wool, which is soft and curly; and hair, usually longer and stiff. The quality of the wool differs according to the breed, climate, food, care, soil, and the health of the animal. For centuries the Spanish Merino produced the finest wool and so jealous were the Spanish people of their supremacy in wool that a law prohibited the exportation of sheep from the country. Not until 1840 were Merino sheep distributed to the other countries of Europe. Australia has proved one of the best countries for the production of a fine, crimpy wool. There the Spanish Merino has been crossed with English breeds. Our own country is rapidly developing a great sheep industry. There is a great difference in the quality of the wool produced by the wild sheep and the domestic sheep. The wild sheep in mountainous regions usually have a great deal of coarse hair mixed with the wool, also a greater amount of imperfectly developed wool, while the domestic sheep produces a soft, curly wool with practically no hair. Marked difference is found