Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. South America is developing rapidly in civilization. In 1914, the Argentine republic alone spent over $10,000,000 for autos and auto trucks. The Governor of Utah vetoed the bill passed at the recent session of the legislature as a prohibition bill, and set forth that it was not in reality a temperance measure! The recent trouble at the University of Utah, briefly stated, was an effort of employes and beneficiaries of the institution to conduct its affairs in a manner out of harmony with the laws of the State; consequently the sentiment of well-informed people was opposed to the attempt. Whatever else may be the outcome, the damage done to the University as a temple of learning may not be repaired in a decade. Frances Frear of New York makes this timely remark, which should find a response in the hearts of women outside of as well as within the Empire State: "The girl who breaks over the conventions society has built up for its protection may deceive herself into thinking this is the way to have a good time, but in the end it always brings regret, and sometimes remorse over a blighted career." We would add that this remark applies with even greater force to the youths of Zion, for we have no double standard of virtue here. The more general use than at present of maize or Indian corn as an article of human diet is being urged in high official and society circles in the United States. The basis of this urging is much more in the prospective necessity for staple foodstuffs than in any superiority which corn has over wheat in the present ratio of consumption of the latter; it also affords another strong institution, coming from those in a position to know, of the wisdom of conserving a good supply of the staff of life for close-by emergencies. Up to the first of April, more than 60,000 Christians had been massacred in Turkey since the latter nation joined arms with Germany and Austria in the great European war; while the unnamable atrocities upon women and children are numbered by CURRENT TOPICS. 241 scores of thousands. This, added to Turkey's record in like lines for generations past, would seem to have filled the Turkish "cup of indignation" to the brim, and not only to justify but to demand that in the name of humanity the Ottoman rule in eastern Europe and western Asia should be brought to its close. Brig.-Gen. Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff of the United States army, who went into San Juan county, Utah, to secure the surrender of the hostile Indians there, was entirely successful, and the trouble in that vicinity is ended. By his persuasive treatment he not only effected the arrest of the Indians for whom writs had been issued, but also brought about an amicable settlement of the whole difficulty, thus insuring peace and safety to both white and Indian inhabitants more effectively than could have been done through force of arms by any number of men. He adopted and carried to successful issue the methods used by the founder of this state, Brigham Young. Not the least of the food difficulties attending the European war is the transformation of the richest marine food-producing area in the world to a waste, so far as present production is concerned. No other area in all the seas has given to humanity such rich supplies of food as the strait which separates Great Britain from the rest of Europe. All of the belligerent nations except Turkey, and also Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Holland, and Switzerland, are sufferers from the war's interference with the North Sea fishing industry. Although the smallest of the nations concerned, yet Switzerland's normal purchases of fish from that region reached nearly a million dollars a year, which now is entirely stopped. The catch in the North Sea area is chiefly herring, haddock, cod, and plaice. Germany's developed desire to have Italy engage in the war specifically as an enemy to Austria is easily understandable. Italy was not on the side of Germany in the earlier months of the war, but was actually being pushed, by internal pressure, to action against the kaiser. The latter's diplomats succeeded in averting that enmity by advocating a cession of territory to Italy by Austria, and the latter's refusal directed the antagonism of Italy against the dual monarchy. The effect of this is that when the great war is ended, Italy will have friendly feelings towards Germany— feelings that will count mightily in Germany's favor in any settlement, since Italy also will be friendly with the allies which constitute Germany's antagonists. Truly, the "heathen Chinee" is no more peculiar than the ways of the diplomat.