[Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. ANDREW M. (MARGARET YOUNG) BOYLE, of Salt Lake City, sister of Robert D. Young, president of the Salt Lake Temple, is ninety-seven and a half years Old. She has buried three children, has eight living, and counts 240 grandchildren, great, and great-great-grandchildren. She does her own housework, has wonderful health and vision, and has never "taken a pill nor a powder." RS. JOHN DAVIS LODGE, wife of the governor of Connecticut, has worked side by side with her husband in every important undertaking. She is now leading the women of her state in a defense program. T the fifteenth Annual Convention of the National Federation of Press Women held in Seattle, Washington, last June, a large number of women editors, business managers, publishers, and columnists were in attendance. Two had been voted "woman of the year" in their respective communities.
What an influence on American life women with powerful press positions can exert!  EDITORIAL m2 
VOL.  NO. 10
She Sabbath for Man A fundamental commandment of the all-wise Father to his children on this earth is disobeyed and often utterly disregarded in the world today. It was instituted at the creation of the world: And on the seventh day, I, God, ended my work, and all things which I had made; and I rested on the seventh day from all my work, and all things which I had made _ were finished, and I, God, saw that they were good; And I, God, blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it; because that in it I had rested from all my work which I, God, had created and made (Moses 3c cemeanre Recently there was an opportunity afforded to spend the Sabbath day aboard a vessel. In such a restricted space it was possible to note the manner in which the passengers observed this commandment of the Lord. At intervals during the morning three church denominational services were held. Later in the day a concert of classical music was heard in one of the lounges over the loud-speaking system. The other listed activities consisted of betting on the horse races, ping-pong, shuffleboard, tennis, swimming, movies, cocktail drinking, card playing, partying, and dancing. The spirit of the ship was one of revelry and pleasure seeking. A serious aspect of the non-observance of the Sabbath seemed to be that there was no evidence of an awareness of disobedience to the /6
Lord.
Even the people who attended a divine service felt perfectly free to spend the rest of the day as their whims moved them.
Their appreciation of the law of the sanctification of the Sabbath seemed nonexistent. It caused one to wonder at the long-suffering and mercy of the Lord in not visiting more calamities upon his heedless and disobedient children. It also caused one to sense more fully the responsibility resting upon the saints to observe fully this sacred law that they may be a leaven and a savor to turn aside, as permitted in righteousness, the judgments of God on the world. The light and knowledge given to faithful, seeking Latter-day Saints shone in glorious contrast against the veil and mist of disobedience and ignorance. The possibilities for joy and exaltation in the eternities stretched limitless for all who obey the commandments. The Latter-day Saint knows that the Father himself sanctified the Sabbath day; that the Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath. Yet sometimes members of the Church may be heard to complain that their many Church duties give them anything but a rest on Sundays.
Such a person might also decide it would be more restful to spend the evening home rather than to attend sacrament meeting. Proper EDITORIAL 677
Sabbath observance feeds the spirit- arises regarding an activity, she may ual body. Probably foremost would ask herself, Is it in the spirit of a be the partaking of the Lord's Sup- day of rest, is it paying one's devoper. Likewise, one would expect that tions to the Most High, does it perthe fulfilling of Church duties on petuate the spirit of a holy day? The the Lord's day would nourish the answer to these questions may despiritual body. Observing the cide the propriety of the activity, sanctity of the day brings promised Oh, that all Latter-Day Saints blessings. would observe this great, basic corn-
Let all essential activities in a mandment, remembering the warnhome be in the spirit of the decree ing of the Lord, "Who am I that "And on this day, Thou shalt do made man . . . that will hold him none other thing only let thy food guiltless that obeys not my combe prepared with singleness of heart mandments?" ' (D. & C. 58:30). that thy fasting may be perfect, or May it not be said of us today, in other words, that thy joy may be "They were slow to hearken unto full" (D. & C. 59:13). the voice of the Lord, their God;
There are always those who ques- therefore, the Lord, their God, is tion, Is it all right to do this or the slow to hearken unto their prayers, other thing? The Lord has said to answer them in the day of their that it is a slothful servant who must trouble" (D. & C. 101:7). *n be compelled in all things. The law these anxious and trying times, how of the Sabbath has been given and needed are the blessings promised sufficient interpretation by Church in return for observance of the holy authorities for everyone's Sabbath day, and how wise will they be who, walk. Ignorance of the law is no casting aside indulgent and selfish excuse, yet each is given his free pleasures, reap the sure rewards of agency. obedience to this vital command-
A mother in a home has a grave ment, in force at the creation of the responsibility to conform in her world, thundered from Mt. Sinai, own conduct, and to guide, teach, taught by the Savior, and specificaland train her children in proper ly commanded in this, the last dis-
Sabba'h observance. If a question pensation. — M. C. S.
{jDirthday
Beatrice K. Ekman
The birds are gone, no bees hum in the clover;
Above the yellow trees, a stretch of gray
Has shrouded purple hills and tall peaks over,
And shut the brightness of the sun away.
The fading stubble fields are gleaned and sober,
Where all the ways of harvesting are done . . .
Alone, I keep your birthday in October —
Turning the leaves of memory one by one

The Family Reunion
Elsie C. Carrol J
A loaded car winds up a mountain road, crossing cool streams splashing and gurgling over beds of shining stones, winding through clumps of tall, fragrant spruce and fir trees, and at last stops within a government-provided camping ground.
Children pour out of the car, laughing and shouting. "We're the first ones here. Hurray!"
'This is our same camping place .... See those two big pines holding their arms out to us. Is this all right, Mom?"
"Yes, of course. It's near a hydrant, and the stove and table were handy last year."
These first arrivals for the family reunion busy themselves unloading the car, deciding where is the best place for the tent, and gathering wood to cook the first breakfast.
They look frequently towards the road leading into the camping ground.
"Will someone get some water and bark and small sticks to start the fire? We had better have breakfast before there is too much going on."
"See! There comes another car.
Wonder who it is?"
"I'll bet it's Uncle Will. He always comes early."
"No. Its a Pontiac. Uncle Will drives a Chev."
"It's Uncle Peter. Hello! Hello!"
"Come over this way and camp by us."
The car bumps over the uneven ground and comes to a stop. The Page 678 occupants pile out to a chorus of greetings.
"It's so good to see you! How well you all look! Pete and Jan, you're both getting younger."
"Is this Jimmy? How he's grown, and looking more and more like his dad all the time."
"Isn't it grand to be here?"
"Perfect, but we shouldn't have come this year— with things so unsettled at the plant. But— the family reunion— we just couldn't miss it."
"Neither could we. I guess we all have our problems, but since we started to have our reunions here in the mountains, well, the children would be heartbroken if we didn't come."
"Do you know whether Dick and Lucy are coming? Is she completely well from her operation?"
Another car arrives, and another.
The chorus of children's voices rises above the more subdued greetings of their elders. Cousins renew friendships formed at previous gatherings. Brother and sisters and inlaws embrace and question and exclaim in a happy mingling of tears and laughter.
The children keep up a persistent chatter.
"Let's go fishing."
"Mom, can I go fishing with Larry and Kimmy and Cal?"
"Did the baby porcupine you took home la st year die?" "To the zoo? _How much did you get?"
THE FAMILY REUNION
Among the adults conversation is almost as desultory. "Sam, how are you since that accident? We were so thankful you weren't killed. Clara, you look wonderful." "Will, how does it seem to be a great-grandfather? Nell, you look as proud as you did when Bill was born. Is the baby Wilham III? Too bad he isn't a little older so Bill and Myrtle could come and we could all see him." "The first great-grandchild in the family!
Makes us all feel old." THER branches of the family arrive at intervals and the babel of sounds increases. 'The clatter of dishes, wood chopping, snatches of popular songs whistled or sung, shouts and laughter from every direction, as tents and tarpaulins are stretched, camp beds set up, and other campmaking activities being carried on are heard. The smell of bacon blends with that of wild flowers as smoke goes up frommany camp stoves.
Children come clamoring from their explorations. "Is breakfast starved."
Soon the sounds become more subdued as families settle themselves around camp tables for their first meal in the mountains. "Did you bring plenty to eat, Mom?" "I want another egg." "Pass the cocoa." "Everything tastes good out here in the mountains!" "See that squirrel is eating out of Betty's hand. Isn't it cute!" ready? We're 679 "Oh, there's one eating a piece of paper napkin," "No. He's not eating it. He's stuffing it into his inner pocket to carry it away to his nest," a big brother explains. ""That's the way they carry the nuts they store away for winter." As such excited conversation goes on at one table, in other camps adults converse in lowered, confidential tones. "My goodness, hasn't Clara aged? Benny's death was surely hard on her." "Yes. I noticed. Am I as gray as Emma? She's awfully wrinkled, too." "Did you notice how pretty Grace's Emily is? I believe she was the homeliest baby I ever saw." "Yes, I remember.
Grace actually cried when she looked at her." "Does Lucy's Kurt have three boys? 'Their Dick has his girl friend here, hasn't he?
Looks like Lucy and Richard will soon be greatgrandparents like Will and Nell— before many more reunions." "We're all getting along to that time." "The only sad thing about family reumons is that we look at each other and realize that we're getting fat and gray and wrinkled, too." "Yes, that, and wondering who may not be with us next time."
Visiting goes on from camp to camp, members of the different family units catching up on each other's affairs. By mid-morning someone calls out: "Everybody down to Uncle Will's camp to plan dinner." 680 HE one meal for which they gather around one long table is a highlight of the reunion. "Where shall we set the table this year?" they ask. "Not by the pavilion. The sun got on us before we were through last year." "There's a good place by Jim's camp—lots of shade and close by the water." _ "What about tables and benches?" "How many are here?
Anybody know?" "Mattie, don't you always count noses and keep statistics—to write up the reunion?" "T've been trying to count.
With young Kurt and his family who just came, I think there are one hundred and seven." "Looks like the most important thing about the reunion to you women folk is a chance to exchange.
Your cooking." "And to you men, a chance to eat it."
Finally time for the dinner arrives. And the long table by Jim's camp is loaded., Appreciative comments are exchanged as the hungry crowd wait for the last hampers to be unloaded. "Reminds me of the tables we used to set for the threshers." "Looks like enough to feed a multitude."
Each woman proudly sets forth her contribution of culinary efficiency and art in the section designated for meats, salads, relishes, dessetts, or beverages. Each, eying the contributions of her relatives, hopes that her own salad or cake or jelly will bring as much praise and as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 many requests for recipes as the others.
Older girls stand near the table with newspapers or branches from shrubs to keep away the flies. "There's about a hundred cakes and pies and big platters heaped up with chicken, and melons—Gosh! Why don't they hurry?" the children ask. "My mom brought a cake in a dripper about a yard long." "Mine made a big panful of salad." At last the welcome call, "Come to dinner!" brings a scamper of hurtying feet. "Will, you're the oldest. Why don't you return thanks?" someone suggests.
There is a hush as heads are bowed. If time could only stop.
Life is very precious at such times. "Will, you and Nell start the line and everybody follow around the table.
Some of us will help the children." The tempo of conversation slows, but there are constant exclamations. "Doesn't it all look good! "IT never was so hungry in my life!" (WHEN the meal is finished, while the women clear the table, the older men stretch out on camp cots, hammocks, or blankets to doze. The younger ones organize a ball game and horseshoe throwing contest. The children, munching a_ last cookie or licking an ice cream cone, wander away to renew their games and explorations.
Later in the afternoon there is a general gathering at the pavilion, for the annual reunion program.
THE FAMILY REUNION
After singing some favorite songs, an opening prayer gives thanks for the ancestors who made such occasions as the one they are enjoying possible; gratitude for the heritage they left; and a plea for continuance of the traditions, love, and loyalty that bind the family together. The program continues with committee reports, tributes to revered ancestors, and highlights in family history.
Committees and officers are selected for the next reunion.
Then comes the part of the pro- _ gram, more interesting to at least the younger members of the group— songs, readings, and stunts, in which families vie with each other for honors.
After the program, photographs are taken of the entire company, of the various age groups, of scenes, animals, clouds—anything that will help to make a permanent record. Later, comes the evening bonfire gathering. To many this is the best feature of the day, to sit in a circle around the huge fire sending its sparks toward the stars. The olacr members sense a deep joy in this hour of cherished companionship and want to hold each moment close.
When they are settled, someone begins to sing a favorite song, and song after song follows.
Finally someone asks, "Do you remember...?" and story follows story of memorable experiences they shared in their young years.
They laugh at incidents that were once catastrophes. The reminiscing continues until many of the children have fallen 681 asleep on their mothers' laps. 'There is repeated yawning as limbs are stretched and wraps drawn closer, for the mountain air becomes chilly. The great stack of wood beside the fire has all been thrown onto the coals, stick by stick, and now only embers glow. "It's almost eleven," someone exclaims. "Hadn't we better turn in?"
Reluctantly the circle breaks up.
Flashlights and lanterns flicker through the trees as goodnights are exchanged. "What time are you leaving in the morning?" one shadowy figure calls to another as they wind back to the camping grounds. "Not too early. We've got to eat up some more of that food we brought." "Hasn't it been wonderful! Too bad we can't make it a week. Well, good night." "Good night."
Voices are warm and tender.
Indistinct sounds fill the darkness—laughter, the chopping of wood, water flowing from hydrants.
These continue for a time.
Then only the night noises of the mountain—the whispering of trees, the scurry of small foraging creatures, the distant howl of a arora are heard.
Many pairs of eyes continue for a long time to look at the starry sky.
Loving thoughts arise—of the father and mother who founded the family, of the many members of the family sleeping in the quiet of the everlasting hills, and little prayers are breathed—prayers of gratitude for the love and loyalty that create the annual family reunion.