[Home — Our First Line of Defense by William H. Boyle]

Home—Our First Line of Defense Elder William H. Boyle Professor Emeritus, Brigham Young University OME sometimes is a place where we come in, hang our hats, eat, and go to bed. It is sometimes the place where we grumble the most and are treated the best.
Home sometimes is where we say in the morning, "Hello—remember me?" and "good night" at the end of a busy day.
Home should be the magic circle within which the weary spirit finds refuge. It should be the sacred asylum to which the careworn heart retreats. It should always be a green spot in Our memory, an oasis in the desert. The home should be a place of rest, of warm friendship, warm greetings, loving hearts, fond glances and heartfelt and heart-expressed appreciation.
Without friends and loved ones, home is nothing but a name. Here, too, we must learn about economic, social, and spiritual forces that shape our motives and our attitudes to meet a complex society as found in our state and our nation and a world of nations. The machine age and the industrial revolution put grave responsibility on every parent in every home.
Every invention has brought along with it countless social problems. We must meet them. We cannot turn back. Sometimes I wonder if we have been physically equipped to make as many adjustments, as many changes in our base as society demands of us. It is so stimulating, it is frightening. Too many people going to the altar are totally unaware of what it  means to be a parent. A marriage license and a 'marriage ceremony in no way equip people for parenthood.
Sound home life does not come overnight. It starts the day we are born and ends the day we die, and begins anew in a life that knows no parting. A man and a woman are the products of home more than anything else. The school and the church follow. N an address, Third District Judge J. Allan Crockett, Salt Lake City, Utah, echoed what other authorities have repeatedly stressed, that most criminals and delinquents come from broken or maladjusted homes. "It is rare to find them coming from homes where parents are living together in mutual love and respect and in the fear of God," the jurist said. He expressed the opinion that the solution of most social problems lies first in the home and second in the schools and churches. In a series of lectures by experts before a Salt Lake parent-teacher association, it was stressed that mothers and fathers can help children acquire acceptable and realistic conceptions of themselves by providing the proper adult models. 'The following suggestions were given: telling the truth, keeping promises, being consistent in demands and discipline; being reasonable about privileges, paying allowances promptly, taking into account the customs of the child's group; shar- HOME—OUR FIRST LINE OF DEFENSE ing the home, radio, and car; providing a healthy psychological climate and being solidly behind the child when he is in trouble. The importance of discipline cannot be overlooked. In and out of school children still have to learn to do what they don't want to do and do it willingly.
They have to do this for no other reason than, as adults, they will spend the largest part of their life doing that. President Brigham Young's wise advice was this: We can guide, direct, and prune a tender sprout and it inclines to our direction, if it is wisely and skillfully applied. So, if we surround a child with healthy and salutary influences, give him suitable instructions, and store his mind with truthful traditions, maybe that will direct his feet in the way of life. We should never permit* ourselves to do anything that we are not willing to see our children do. We should set them an example that we wish them to imitate. Do we realize this? How often we see parents demand obedience, good behavior, kind words, pleasant looks, a sweet voice and a bright eye from a child or children when they themselves are full of bitterness antl scolding! How inconsistent and unreasonable this is. Dr. O. Spurgeon English, professor of psychiatry, 'Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in an address in Salt Lake City, remarked: The giving of mental health begins with the parent, the church and the school.
These together should give the basic foundation of good working personality.
Then come the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, youth groups and recreational organization.
Then come child care, children's hospitals, social service, family service, delinquency prevention, psychological and vocational counseling, psychiatric wards in general hospitals and finally mental hospitals. 673
Some of the steps toward mental health have been listed by authorities on human development as follows: Being a wanted child.
Having happily married parents.
Satisfying play experiences with other children.
Congenial school experience; romantic, playful, successful adolescence.
Congenial work suited to temperament.
Happy marriage and satisfying parenthood.
Prestige and success from work.
Enjoyable participation in community activity.
Interest in teaching the young. An old age rich in pleasant memories and continued activity. The wrong road, on the other hand, usually consists of the following steps: Being an unwanted child, having unhappily married, quarreling parents; painful childhood play experiences, anxious, tense school days; bleak, unpopular, isolated adolescence; uncongenial work, cartied out from a sense of duty; unhappy marriage; reluctant acceptance of parenthood; no prestige or success from work; no participation in social or community activity; no 'interest in helping others; increasing bitterness and hostility. The child can never be considered separate from his environment. The home must see to it that the child is not cheated out of his opportunities to grow from immaturity to maturity. We must be sure we do not warp precious personalities. The home is the right place to start and it is the right place to keep going. The home should be a blessing. If it is associated with moral and social excellence many of society's headaches would be _ eliminated.
Then the home would be a silent, permanent, irresistible, overwhelming force for good.