[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
Robinson HE 1961-1962 Visiting Teacher Messages from The Doctrine and Covenants focus attention on certain fundamental character traits. These are the traits of honesty, charity, mercy, steadfastness, and faith, which we recognize as being important, but which we are sometimes prone to take for granted. This year's "Truths to Live By" concentrate renewed emphasis on these basic character traits and give us an opportunity to increase our understanding of their importance. Furthermore, they help us to visualize how we can build these fundamental qualities into our lives and into the lives of our children. For example, these messages point out that in order to be truly honest we must practice absolute integrity not only in the big things, but also in the seeming trifles of everyday living. They tell us that genuine charity consists of giving of ourselves and of our substance unselfishly and without any thought of worldly reward. 'They emphasize that mercy is a Christ-like quality which, if practiced, can bring great happiness both to ourselves and to others. These truths describe steadfastness as a quality loved by the Lord. They point out that faith is a motivating, spiritual power which, if it is to be effective in our lives, must be God-centered rather than selfcentered. These truths also point out that in order to draw near to our Father in heaven in prayer, we must have a humble and a contrite spirit. They further describe how the Lord has given us the example of his life and his gospel as a pattern for us to follow. They emphasize the fact that we must build our lives and our testimonies of the gospel upon the firm foundation of our own knowledge and good work, rather than upon the efforts and accomplishments of others. These messages as found in The Doctrine and Covenants are like signposts on the highway of life. They point the way to rewarding and abundant living, if we will obey their instructions and heed their counsel. President Heber J. Grant expressed this thought beautifully when he said, "We are the architects and builders of our lives, and if we fail to put our knowledge into actual practice... We are making a failure of life' (Conference Report, April 1939, page 18). He further pointed out that "The Doctrine and Covenants is full of splendid things with which we ought to be familiar." 'Then he emphasized an important fact that we can read The Doctrine and Covenants through and through, and learn it by heart, and yet it won't benefit us unless we put into practice its Page 413 414 teachings. (See Improvement Era, Vol. 48, page 585.) This year, as in the past four years, each message is presented with an example which illustrates the living application of the truth found in The Doctrine and Covenants. The 1961-1962 Visiting 'Teacher Messages and their objectives are as follows: Message 33—"He 'That Prayeth, Whose Spirit Is Contrite, the Same Is Accepted of Me " (D&C Beni S ie Objective: To show the true meaning of prayer with a contrite spirit. Message 34—'I Will Give Unto You a Pattern in All Things" (D & C 52:14). Objective: To emphasize the fact that the Savior, through his life and through his gospel, has set the pattern for us to follow. Message 35—"Remember in All Things the Poor and the Needy, the Sick and the Afflicted" (D & C 52:40). Objective: To describe the nature of genuine charity. Work ITleeting— Attitudes and Manners RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1961 Message 36—""One Man Shall Not Build Upon Another's Foundation" (D & C 52:33). Objective: To emphasize the fact that we can build solid foundations only upon our own efforts and accomplishments. Message 37—"And Let Every Man Deal Honestly" (D & C 51:9). Objective: To show that honesty is the foundation of individual and universal character. Message 38—"According to Men's Faith It Shall Be Done Unto Them" (D & C 52:20). Objective: To show the remarkable power and blessings of faith. Message 39—"I Will Be Merciful Unto You" (D & C 50:16). Objective: 'To demonstrate the Christhike nature of true mercy. Message 4o—"Continue in Steadfastness" (D & C 49:23). Objective: To show that steadfastness is one of our most important character traits. How Do You Do? Preview of Discussions for 1961-1962 Elaine Anderson Cannon E, pass through this world but once, and it behooves us all to lift ourselves to our highest level of spirituality, intelligence, morality, gentility, and refinement. To make this experience of living abundant and satisfying, we must not be content with half measures. Because the success of this life determines our status in the future one, we should be rightly concerned with these matters.

Our very relationship with God is dependent upon our relationship with others of LESSON DEPARTMENT his children. Our self-respect, our inner needs, our recognitions and our opportunities for serving and accepting service from others, our example setting, and our guidance of those under our realm of responsibility, all are influenced by our willingness to put forth the effort to like and to be liked. Here, then, is one of the great rewards of this life — to get along harmoniously with other people. Thus the noblest aims of men are not frustrated because of petty personal problems, and the simplest associations may become sweet and memorable experiences. Since the beginning of history, prophets and philosophers have concerned themselves with instructing mankind in the art of human relationships. Never has there been a time when thoughtfulness for others has not been considered a valued personal trait. The key to all social interchange, to personal popularity, to effective community life, to happy family associations, and to ideal government, is "... Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them " (Mt. 7:12). This is the basis of all moral and ethical thinking and behaving. Looking, acting, thinking in a way which will influence people favorably toward you and _ bring pleasure to them is most desirable. It is important that women realize their very special role in fostering love for one's fellow men, of setting a proper example in appearance and consideration for others, of creating an element of security in the home, making the most of that which they have, and echoing the loveliest in their local customs and culture. The purpose of this year's course 415 of study is to point out the challenges and rewards of self-improvement, and the confidence and poise which can come with knowledge of proper behavior under various social situations. Through emotional, social, and spiritual maturity, we may learn to get along with others and achieve an inner peace that results from dealing with one's fellow men pleasantly and_ effectively. From this accomplishment there follows the additional reward of knowing we are thus serving our Father in heaven. This discussion course is planned with the hope that it will place this achievement within the grasp of all of our sisters; that practicing the tules of the project of happy group relationships will be pleasant and profitable to Relief Society members and their families. The 1961-62 series of discussions have been given the following titles and objectives: Discussion 1—Manners Matter Objective: To show that good manners are fundamental in establishing harmonious relationships with our fellow beings. Discussion 2—Just for Example Objective: To show that the example of a considerate woman is reflected in the lives of her family. Discussion 3—Being a Good Neighbor Objective: To show that we serve our Father in heaven better and are happier if we obey the commandment "... Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to theme " (Mt. 7:12). 416 Discussion 4—Courtesy in Church Objective: To emphasize that we honor our Father in heaven when we practice and encourage respect for others in Church, and for the edifices themselves. Discussion 5—Public Performance Objective: To remind that anonymity is no excuse for poor behavior, and that a true test of one's character is evidenced in one's treatment of public servants and property. Discussion 6—The True Spirit of Hospitality Objective: To point out that the development of the art of being a good RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1961 hostess and an 'ideal guest is a woman's_ responsibility, and that the pleasures derived therefrom are her special privileges. Discussion 7—Attitudes Make the Difference Objective: To show that good manners spring from good thoughts and that a woman is her most charming when she is being thoughtful. Discussion 8—Hello and Goodbye Objective: 'To encourage the develop. Ment of one's best behavior.