[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Coles]
[POETRY Letter From the Sea — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 345 Appreciation Evelyn Fjeldsted 355 "That Thy Days May be Long" Ouida Johs Pedersen 360 Wayside Path Della dams Letner 361 Great or Small Hazel Loomis 367 Inland Gulls Maude Rubin 371 Life Catherine Bowles 421 Earth-Borne Marjorie C. Reoy 422 To a Granddaughter Christie Lund Coles]
evaluate  his  poetry. 
Lesson  30  —  James  Russell  Lowell 
(1819-1891) 
Objective:  To  acknowledge  Lowell  as 
a  representative  symbol  of  mid-cen- 
tury American  values  and  culture. 
Lesson  31  —  Edgar  Allan  Poe  — 
The  Pathos  oi  His  Liie  and  Poetry 
(1809-1849) 
Objective:  To  review  Poe's  life  that 
we  may  more  truly  read  his  works. 
Lesson  32  —  Edgar  AlJan  Poe  — 
Artist  oi  Word  and  Sentence 
Objective:  To  see  in  Poe's  writings  an 
attempt  to  attain  perfection  in  literary 
craftsmanship  and  to  recognize  his 
art  as  an  escape  from  his  own  con- 
flicts.

Social  Science — The  Place  of  Woman  in  the 
Gospel  Plan 
Preview  of  Lessons  for  1961-62 
Elder  Ariel  S.  Ballif 
Course  objective:  To  realize  the  importance  of  woman  in  the  plan  of  salvation, 
through  the  full  significance  of  her  role  in  the  family  as  a  mother,  companion,  and 
covenanted  partner  in  ''subduing  the  earth"  and  attaining  exaltation. 
T^O  Students  of  the  social  order,  proper  examples  for  the  children  to 
the  family  is  the  basic  unit  and  follow, 
largely  the  determining  factor  in  a         Much  has  been  said  and  written 
healthy,    happy,   and    enduring   so-  about  the  men  of  the  Church  and 
ciety.      The    ups    and    downs    of  their  responsibility  for  the  family, 
civilization    have   been    related    by  This  year  in  our  social  science  les- 
these  students  to  the  variation   in  sons  we  shall  look  at  the  place  of 
strength  and  stability  of  the  family  woman  and  her  responsibility  in  the 
as  a  unit.  home  and  in  the  program  of  the 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Church. 
Latter-day  Saints  places  special  im-  Scripturally,  man  is  not  without 
portance  upon  family  hfe.  The  the  woman  in  the  sight  of  God,  and 
Church  is  fully  aware  of  the  socio-  exaltation  in  the  highest  order  of 
logical  importance  expressed  above,  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God  can- 
It  re-emphasizes  this  importance,  not  be  attained  without  success  in 
and  goes  much  further  by  pointing  the  marriage  covenant.  Therefore, 
out  that  happiness  here  is  only  one  we  will  consider  in  the  first  two  les- 
phase  of  family  existence.  It  main-  sons  the  eminence  of  the  woman's 
tains  and  testifies  to  the  world  that  position  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
the  family  is  eternal,  that  the  Christ,  together  with  the  equality 
authority  by  which  temple  marriages  she  enjoys  in  the  basic  teachings 
are  performed  has  the  power  to  bind  and  practices, 
on  earth  and  in  heaven.  No  one  can  enjoy  eminence  in 
In  order  to  qualify  for  such  a  mar-  our   society   without   qualifying    in 
riage,  one  must  translate  into  actions  terms    of    successful    achievement, 
the  principles  of  the  gospel,  empha-  Possibly,  the  most  worthy  for  this 
sizing  the  law  of  chastity  and  the  recognition  are  they  who  love  their 
permanency  and  sacredness  of  the  fellow  men  and  devote  their  lives 
marriage  covenant.  to  service.    In  the  third,  fourth,  and 
The  major  roles  of  the  family  are  fifth  lessons  we  will  consider  service 
played  by  people  of  equal  responsi-  as  the  mission  of  motherhood.    No 
bility  for  the  success,  welfare,  and  phase  of  life  requires  so  much  in 
advancement  of  all  members.    The  patience,  determination,  selflessness, 
gospel    places    direct    responsibility  and    complete    dedication    as    true 
upon  the  parents  for  teaching  cor-  motherhood.     In  turn,  nothing  un- 
rect  principles  and  for  setting  the  dertaken    by   human   beings    offers 
Page  418

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
419 
greater  rewards  in  terms  of  success- 
ful achievement  than  the  mother 
who  offers  to  society  well-rounded, 
responsible,  and  achieving  sons  and 
daughters. 
Society  in  general  and  the  Church 
in  particular  depend  upon  the  ef- 
fectiveness of  the  family  unit  for 
the  progress  and  fulfillment  of  the 
great  destiny  of  man. 
In  lessons  six  and  seven  we  shall 
examine  woman's  influence  in  and 
contribution  to  the  functioning  of 
the  Church  program.  Besides  being 
a  homemaker  and  companion  to  her 
husband  and  family  members,  she 
exerts  a  great  influence  on  the  activ- 
ity of  the  Priesthood  and  in  the 
realization  of  the  objectives  of  the 
gospel. 
The  Priesthood  leadership  has  ex- 
pressed great  confidence  in  women 
of  the  Church.  They  have  recog- 
nized their  mental  ability,  given 
expression  to  their  creativeness,  and 
encouraged  them  to  increase  their 
influence  with  their  husbands  and 
sons  in  the  carrving  out  of  their 
Priesthood  responsibilities. 
The  underlying  objective  of  these 
lessons  is  to  stimulate  the  women 
of  the  Church  more  fully  to  recog- 
nize their  importance  in  the 
successful  operation  of  the  program 
of  the  Church,  and  to  offer  a  chal- 
lenge to  improve  their  abilities  so 
they  can  more  eflfectively  carry  out 
their  equal  responsibilities  in  mak- 
ing the  Latter-day  Saint  homes  more 
distinctive  in  terms  of  what  they 
produce. 
THE   EMINENCE   OF  WOMAN 
Lesson  i  —  The  Scripture  and 
Woman's  Place 
Objective:  To  help  the  women  of  the 
Church  more  fully  to  realize  their 
divinely  ordained  position. 
Lesson  2  —  Full  Equality  in  the 
Gospel  Plan 
Objective:  To  discover  the  true  sig- 
nificance of  unity  in  the  marriage 
covenant. 
SERVICE  —  THE  MISSION  OF 
MOTHERHOOD 
Lesson  3  —  Motherhood,  the  High- 
est Type  oi  Service 
Objective:  To  realize  the  implied 
obligation  and  the  responsibility  of 
motherhood. 
Lesson  4  —  Homemaking,  a  Creative 
Calhng 
Objective:  To  emphasize  the  impor- 
tance of  creating  an  environment  of 
physical,  intellectual,  and  spiritual 
beauty  in  the  home. 
Lesson  5  —  Homemaking,  a  Crea- 
tive Calhng  (Continued) 
Objective:  To  help  women  realize 
the  necessity  of  continued  personal 
development. 
WOMEN  AND  CHURCH  ACTIVITY 
Lesson  6  —  How  Women  Share  in 
the  Blessings  of  the  Priesthood 
Objective:  To  increase  our  under- 
standing of  the  way  in  which  women 
participate  in  the  blessings  of  the 
Priesthood. 
Lesson  7  —  Fulness  oi  Life  and 
Exaltation 
Objective:  To  stress  the  importance 
of  obedience  to  law  in  attaining  the 
blessing  of  exaltation  and  to  sum- 
marize woman's  place  in  the  gospel 
plan.