[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Around | Author: Cowles]
[Around the World at Eighty Etta B. Cowles]
Wild  flowers  all  around. 
A  peaceful  calm  was  in  the  air, 
The  sky  with  white  clouds  piled 
Above  the  far  horizon's  rim; 
It  seemed  that  nature  smiled. 
Here,  leaving  doubts  and  cares  behind, 
I  gained  an  aftermath 
Of  peace  when  from  the  old  worn  road 
I  took  a  wayside  path. 
Page  361

Around  the  World  at  Eighty 
Etta  B.  CowJes 
Iliad  been  married  fifty  years  to  New  York;  took  a  taxi  to  the  hotel 
my  childhood  sweetheart.  We  to  meet  the  group  of  teachers.  I 
had  more  good  than  bad  times  was  the  first  to  arrive;  in  the  after- 
while  struggling  for  a  living  and  an  noon  the  others  came,  one  at  a  time, 
education.  He  was  ambitious  to  from  all  over  the  United  States, 
become  an  educator.  Not  through  Three  men  with  wives,  eighteen 
high  school  at  twenty-four,  when  we  widows  and  maiden  ladies  —  teach- 
were  married,  twenty  years  elapsed  ers  and  supervisors  from  uni- 
before  he  received  a  Ph.D.  He  versities,  high  schools,  elementary 
taught  grade  school,  high  school;  schools;  all  excited.  For  many,  it 
became  a  university  professor,  and  was  their  first  trip  abroad.  They 
dean,  and  then  a  university  presi-  were  of  all  ages,  had  worked  long 
dent.  At  seventy  years,  he  became  and  hard,  and  saved  for  years  to  take 
very  ill,  and  lived  only  six  more  this  tour.  I  was  twenty  years  older 
years.  than  any  of  them.     I  kept  up,  saw 
After  living  alone  for  awhile,  I  everything,  was  not  ill  a  minute  for 
became    restless.    I   wanted   to   go  the  next  two  months, 
places    and    see    things.      We    had  Next  morning  we  left  by  plane 
already   been    to    Europe,    Hawaii,  for  Portugal.    Lisbon  is  one  of  the 
Alaska,   Mexico,   and   all   over   the  pleasantest   cities   in   Europe,  with 
United  States,  but  when  I  inquired  fine  hotels,  broad  streets,  flowers  and 
of   steamship   companies  and   tour  green  trees  —  just  like  a  colored  post 
agencies,  they  told  me  they  wouldn't  card, 
accept  a  lone  woman  over  seventy.  We  were  thrilled  to  go  to  Spain 
Last  January  I  was  looking  over  a  and  Madrid.  I  met  a  beautiful 
teachers'  magazine,  and  found  three  Spanish  lady,  a  friend  of  my  son,  at 
world  tours.  I  sent  a  post  card  —  the  airport.  She  gave  me  flowers 
just  for  fun;  they  sent  me  an  appli-  and  took  me  for  a  ride  through  the 
cation  blank,  which  I  filled  out,  with  city.  A  land  of  bull  fights,  colored 
little  hope  of  hearing  from  it,  be-  skies,  water  brilliant  blue;  broad, 
cause  I  told  them  I  was  in  my  four-story  houses,  wide  streets,  flow- 
eightieth  year.  We  corresponded,  ers  everywhere!  Art  galleries,  mu- 
I  obtained  eleven  shots,  and  ma-  seum  treasures,  courtesy  everywhere, 
terial  for  passport  and  visas.  Then  on  to  Rome.     A  thrill  to 
In  June,  I  received  my  ticket  to  see  where  the  modern  world  had  its 
go  around  the  world!    Then  I  told  roots  —  the  Colosseum,  the  Vati- 
my  five  children.     Excitement  pre-  can,    the   catacombs,    Saint   Peter's 
vailed.     'Tou  cannot  go.  Mother;  basilica.     Just   riding    through    the 
you  can't  stand  the  trip,  physically  city  and  around  the  Appian  Way 
or  mentally  —  No,  No,  NO!"  was  very  romantic.  I  met  my  young- 
On  the  Fourth  of  July,   1959,  I  est  son  at  the  airport,  the  one  in 
boarded   a   plane   alone  after   mid-  the  Foreign  Service, 
night;  didn't  get  off  the  plane  until  Athens,  Greece,  brought  back  my 
Page  362

AROUND  THE  WORLD  AT  EIGHTY  363 
school  days.  Greece  of  antiquity,  the  I  left  alone  in  pitch  darkness  on 
birthplace    of    the    mythical    gods;  a    ten-passenger    plane    for    Beirut, 
land   of  legend  and  beauty  which  Lebanon.     The   moon   was   bright 
inspired  art  and  philosophy.    I  rode  when   I   reached   Beirut.     A  hand- 
a  bus  to  the  south  of  Greece,  walked  some  young  man  met  me,  called  my 
to  the  top  of  the  hill  to  see  the  fabu-  name,  helped  me  under  the  ropes  to 
lous  Parthenon  like  a  crown  on  the  the  Customs  to  read  my  passport 
rocky  hill  of  the  Acropolis.  Walked  and  visa.    The  guide  and  taxi  driver 
in  the  ancient  theatre  of  Epidaurus,  took   me   to   a   fine   hotel   on   the 
fourth   century  B.C.,  which   is  still  Mediterranean    Sea.      I    registered, 
being  used.    We  saw  Corinth  where,  My  room  with  a  balcony  overlooked 
it  is  said,  St.  Paul  wrote  his  Epistles;  the  garden  and  the  sea.    I  could  dis- 
and  many  museums  —  one  having  tinguish  the  color  of  the  flowers.    I 
the  famous  ''Winged  Victory."  couldn't  lock  the  door,  so  I  pushed 
furniture  against  it,  and  I  slept  fine. 
T^HEN  a  jet  plane  to  Istanbul.  At  nine  a.m.,  my  guide  and  the 
There  I  met  my  oldest  son  who  taxi  driver  took  me  to  a  plane.  It 
is  United  States  Minister  to  Turkey,  was  a  smaller  plane  and  didn't  fly 
It  was  a  real  thrill  to  visit  the  Con-  very  high.  My  excitement  was 
stantinople  of  our  geography  days,  great.  It  was  an  hour's  ride  to 
with  my  boy.  We  saw  the  Aya  Sofia,  Jerusalem  and  the  day  was  very 
a  thousand  years  older  than  St.  bright  and  hot.  I  saw  the  River 
Peter's,  one  of  the  seven  wonders  of  Jordan,  with  its  green  banks,  and, 
the  world;  the  Sultan's  harem,  where  in  the  distance,  the  Dead  Sea.  Oh, 
he  kept  his  many  wives  and  a  thou-  oh!  There  was  Jerusalem!  White 
sand  virgins,  his  many  jewels,  rocks,  tan  hills,  and  old,  old  stone 
crowns,  and  clothes.  (Harems  were  houses  with  little  windows.  No 
done  away  with  in  1927.)  We  saw  grass,  flowers,  trees  —  no  streams  of 
the  Blue  Mosque  (there  are  four  water.  My  guide  was  an  Arab,  a 
hundred  mosques  in  Istanbul)  and  Moslem.  He  spoke  good  English, 
rode  on  the  Black  Sea,  and  looked  having  attended  the  University  of 
over  the  wall  at  Russia.  Jerusalem.  The  only  book  I  took 
The  most  important  part  of  my  on  this  tour  was  the  New  Testa- 
trip  was  spent  in  Jerusalem  and  the  ment.  I  had  read  it  carefully  on  the 
Holy  Land.  When  the  itinerary  I  planes.  Zacharias,  my  guide,  knew 
received  in  Salt  Lake  City  showed  it  better  than  I  did.  He  didn't  think 
we  would  be  flying  over  Jerusalem  Jesus  was  divine  —  but  a  great 
to  Cairo,  I  wrote  to  Washington,  teacher. 
and    they   said    they   would    make  I  walked  where  Jesus  walked,  over 
arrangements  for  a  stop  at  Jerusa-  the  rocks  and  the  sand, 
lem.     In  Istanbul  I  found  I  was  to  Our    first    stop    was    Bethlehem, 
go  alone.     No  one  else  had  made  Bethlehem!     We     walked     to     an 
plans  for  Jerusalem.    I  told  the  man-  ancient    cave    similar    to    the    one 
ager  not  to  tell  my  son;  but  some-  where  Jesus  was  born;  we  walked 
one  found  out,  and  told  me  not  to  around  the  Mount  of  Olives.    There 
go  alone.    My  son  heard  her.    *'No,  was   an  old,   old   olive  tree    ( 3,000 
Mother,  no.''  b.c.)  in  the  center  of  a  fenced  gar-

M' 
364  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE  1961 
den.      The    grass    was    gray-green  Old  Jerusalem.    I  saw  the  temple  in 
bunch    grass;   it   never   grows   long  the  Moslem  quarters.     The  Dome 
enough  to  cut.    We  rode  and  rode,  of  the  Rock  is  a  mosque  erected  on 
visited  the  university,  saw  where  and  the  ancient  site  of  the  temple  of 
how  the  rich  and  poor  live,  then  to  Solomon;   saw   the   Wailing  Wall, 
the  hotel  for  a  rest  and  lunch.    The  a  remnant  of  Herod's  temple,  and 
hotel   had  been  an   old  monastery  the  Tower  of  David.     We  walked 
once,  now  it  was  a  cool  tourist  re-  uphill  where  Jesus  carried  the  cross; 
treat.     Twenty  white  marble  steps  from   the   Court   of   Pilate   to   the 
led  to  my  room.    There  was  a  very  Garden    of    Gethsemane,    marked 
deep  window,  a  jar  of  cool  boiled  with  fourteen  stations  where  it  is 
water.     The  private  bathroom  was  said  he  rested.     This  narrow  street 
up   ten   more   white   marble   steps,  was   filled  with   peasants   trying  to 
Signs  in  English:  ''Do  not  use  much  sell  everything, 
water  —  No  baths  till   tomorrow.  Qf    most    importance    was    the 
We  get  water  only  every  other  day.''  Church  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre.  This 
A  delicious  lunch  and  a  nap,  and  I  is  a  collection  of '  chapels  housing 
was  ready  to  go  again.  the    tomb    in   which    it    is    alleged 
Christ  was   laid   to   rest   after   the 
Y  private  taxi  took  me  to  Beth-  crucifixion,     the     most     venerated 
any   where   Mary   and   Mar-  shrine  in  Christendom.    I  prayed  in 
tha  lived;  to  Jericho,  oldest  walled  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane  where 
city   in   the   world;   Hebron   where  Jesus   spent   his   last   hours,   saw  a 
Abraham  is  buried.    I  waded  in  the  large,  flat  rock  where  it  is  claimed 
Dead  Sea,  tasted  the  water.  It  was  Jesus  was  laid  after   death.     It   is 
briny     as     Great     Salt     Lake.      I  now    covered    with    glass.     People 
rested  on  the  bank  of  the  Jordan  kneel  around   it  and  pray.     I   saw 
River  and  was  asked  by  a  priest  if  the  grove  of  trees  on  the  Mount  of 
I  wanted  to  be  baptized.     I  visited  Olives  overlooking  Jerusalem,  where 
Elisha's  Well,  where  scarfed  women  Jesus  ascended  to  heaven,  and  saw 
came  to  get  their  water  in  huge  jars  the  tomb  of  the  virgin  Mary,  mother 
they  carried  on  their  heads.    I  tried  of  Jesus.    Many  churches  or  chapels 
to  lift  one,  but  couldn't.  comprise  the  Church  of  the  Holy 
Back   to   the   hotel,    and    dinner  Sepulchre    —    Russian      Orthodox, 
with  guests  from  all  over  the  world.  Christian,  Catholic,  Moslem,  Greek 
Many  spoke  English.     There  were  Orthodox,    Armenian,    and     many 
many  books  to  read,  beautiful  souve-  others,  all  filled  with  altars,  shrines, 
nir  antique  furniture.  Oriental  rugs,  paintings,    stained    glass    windows, 
crystal     chandeliers.       A     pleasant  beautiful  furniture, 
evening.    Next  morning  I  found  the  We  looked  over  the  fence  to  the 
beautiful    garden    situated    in    the  Israel  side.    About  ten  miles  south 
center  of  the  building,  with  balcony  of  Jerusalem,  we  visited  the  Church 
and  rooms  all  around.  of  the  Nativity  of  Christ,  Shepherds' 
I  left  with  the  driver  and  guide  to  Fields,  Fields  of  Boaz,  and  the  sup- 
see  Old  Jerusalem,  with   its  forty-  posed  well  where  Jesus  talked  to  the 
foot    wall    forming    a    quadrangle,  woman  of  Samaria. 
Most  of  the  holy  places  are  in  the  The  next  morning  I  was  taken  to

AROUND  THE  WORLD  AT  EIGHTY  365 
the  airport  and  left  to  hunt  for  the  Desert,  down  into  a  cave  to  see  the 
plane  going  to  Cairo.  It  was  the  sacred  Golden  Cow.  It  was  a  pleas- 
first  time  I  felt  left  out.  But  I  met  ant  trip  riding  by  the  Nile  —  a  fairy- 
two  Arab  girls  who  were  speaking  land!  Trees,  flowers,  fields  of  food, 
English,  and  going  to  Cairo,  so  I  and  fruit  trees  everywhere.  Chil- 
joined  them.  dren  were  clean  and  well-cared  for. 
I  met  my  tour  people  again  at  There  were  hundreds  of  white  cattle 
Cairo.     At  the  hotel,  servants  and  used  for  agriculture,  and  many  water 
waiters  were  dressed  in  long  green  buffalo  wallowing  in  the  streams  and 
and  gold  robes.    Flowers  were  every-  canals, 
where  in  the  dining  room  and  in 
our  private  rooms;  Egyptian  paint-  W/E  flew  on  to  Bombay,  the  gate- 
ings      and      Oriental      rugs      were  ^^  way    to    India,    one    of    Eng- 
everywhere.    We  visited  a  museum,  land's  favorite  haunts  and  resorts, 
everything    dated    b.c.      We    saw  and  rode  buses  to  see  the  countrv- 
Pharaoh's  home.     He  died  at  the  side    and    the    Prince    of    Wales 
age  of  ninety-seven,  leaving  iii  sons  Museum, 
and  sixty-seven  daughters.  Then  on  to  Delhi,   India.     We 
We  saw  the  oldest  mosque  in  the  spent  many  days  in  and  around  this 
world  —  3,000  B.C.  We  saw  a  king  old  and  new  city.  We  rode  in  taxis 
in  his  solid  gold  casket,  and  a  paint-  through  the  northern  part  of  India, 
ing  of  some  geese  of  400  B.C.  It  had  This  is  part  of  what  we  saw:  a 
perfect  coloring.  The  most  im-  monsoon  cloudburst  —  it  was  like 
portant  cave  was  King  Tut's  home  riding  in  a  canal;  monkeys  in  their 
—  five  rooms  in  the  tomb.  (This  natural  habitat,  swinging  in  the 
was  discovered  in  1923.)  Each  room  trees;  elephants  roving  through  the 
fit  into  another,  like  a  box  —  all  of  woods.  (We  stayed  in  the  cars.) 
solid  gold,  with  plenty  of  precious  There  were  herds  of  camels,  some 
stones.  King  Tut's  life  history  is  used  to  plow  with,  many  peacocks, 
written  on  each  wall  of  the  rooms,  storks,  pheasants,  and  red-headed 
There  are  240  pounds  of  solid  gold  birds,  boar  pigs,  ugly  and  dirty,  pal- 
in  the  casket  of  the  last  room,  or  aces,  castles,  and  ruins  of  old 
box.  We  saw  the  largest  mosque  churches.  We  saw  hundreds  of 
in  the  world  (there  are  500  in  mosques  used  by  the  Moslems,  the 
Cairo)  and  peasants  sleep  all  night  Taj  Mahal  of  white  marble,  still 
on  the  floor.  They  wash  their  feet  the  most  beautiful  building  in  the 
before  kneeling  on  the  Persian  rugs  world,  built  in  1639  —  it  took  fif- 
to  pray.  teen    years    to    build,    with    20,000 
We  rode  to  the  markets  and  saw  slaves.  This  was  built  by  a  king 
food  spread  on  the  ground.  Many  for  his  beautiful  queen.  We  saw 
children  were  in  rags.  The  women  homes  of  the  rich  and  poor  —  ex- 
wore  long  black  dresses  and  black  treme  elegance,  extreme  destitution, 
scarves  on  their  heads.  little  girls  and  boys  wearing  nothing 
We  drove   to  the   university  of  but   cheesecloth   pants.     The   girls 
20,000  students,  then  on  to  the  pyra-  had  long  hair,  wore  rings  in  their 
mids,   and  we   saw   the   Sphinx  at  noses,  and  on  fingers  and  toes.  They 
Giza.     We  walked  on  the  Sahara  didn't  play  —  just  begged  for  food.