[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Fiction | Title: Cook-Your-Own | Author: Smit]
Cook = YourOwn Barbecue (For Back Yard or Canyon) Ruby K. Smith MENU Cuorce oF Meats Frankfurters — Vienna Sausage — (for open-fire roasting) Hamburger Patties — Steaks — Chops — Ham (for frying pan or grill) BARBECUE SAUCE (Catsup, Chili Sauce, Mustard, or your own make) Hot-Dog or Hamburger Rolls or Chunks of French Bread Pickles or Olives Salad Vegetables (Lettuce, Carrot and Celery Sticks, Radishes, or Coleslaw) Hot Baked Beans or Cereal Flake Cookies Easy Raisin Cake Lemonade FRANKS OR WIENERS (Use a long-handled fork or skewer — or a long stick sharpened to point at one end) Cook over red-hot coals until well done. Slice lengthwise and add barbecue sauce. Serve in hot-dog rolls, which have been split, toasted, and buttered. Variations: 1. Garnish frank with pickle and pimiento. 2. Add relish to baked beans and pile in sliced frank. 3. Stuff hot frank with coleslaw. HAMBURGER PATTIES % tsp. Pepper 2 Ibs. Ground beef 1 slightly beaten egg 3 tbsp. Grated onion 2 tsp. Salt Mix well and shape into patties. Refrigerate until needed. Grill on both sides. Serve with barbecue sauce in hot, buttered hamburger roll. Variations: 1. Potato Burgers — Add grated raw potatoes to pattie mixture. 2. Bacon Burgers — Wrap slice of bacon around each pattie, and secure with toothpick. 3. Pineapple Burgers — After turning pattie on grill, press pineapple chunk in top. BaRBECUE SAUCE 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 4% c. Chili sauce 2 tbsp. Vinegar 2 tbsp. Butter or margarine 2 small onions, sliced 2 tbsp. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Dry mustard % c. Tomato juice Combine all ingredients in small saucepan. Cook over low heat until onions are cooked and flavors are blended (about 15 minutes). Refrigerate in covered container until needed. Page 374 COOK YOUR OWN BARBECUE 375 BAKED BEANS 2 c. Navy beans % Ib. Fat pork or bacon 4 c. Water Ya ¢. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Molasses Wash and sort beans, cover with water, and soak over night. Cook slowly until tender. Drain, reserving liquid. Place beans and pork in alternate layers in beanpot. Add bean liquid and remaining ingredients. Cover and bake in slow oven. Add more liquid if necessary. One c. Tomato juice may be used for part of liquid. (To keep beans hot for canyon party, wrap bean pot in several layers of newspaper.) Easy Ratsin CAKE % c. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Nutmeg ¥% c. Shortening 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1 C. Raisins 2 c. Whole-wheat flour 1% c. Water I 1 tsp. Soda tsp. Baking powder _ % tsp. Salt Sift flour, soda, and baking powder together. Combine remaining ingredients in saucepan and boil together 5 minutes. Cool. Add dry ingredients and mix thoroughly. Pour into square pan which has been lined with waxed paper and greased. Bake 45 to 60 minutes at 350° F. CEREAL FLAKE COOKIES (Use any kind of ready-to-eat flakes—corn, wheat, bran, etc.) 1 c. Flour % ¢. Sugar ¥, tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Vanilla % tsp. Salt 1 egg % c. Butter or margarine 3 c. Cereal flakes Measure and sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. Thoroughly cream shortening and sugar, add egg and vanilla, and beat well. Stir in sifted dry ingredients and 1 cup cereal flakes. Drop teaspoons of dough into remaining flakes, rolling to coat, place on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 375° F. Until lightly browned (about 10 minutes). Makes about 40 two-inch cookies. LEMONADE 3 C. Sugar-syrup 10 c. Water or 2 c. Lemon juice 2 c. Water and 2 trays ice cubes Prepare sugar-syrup ahead of time by combining equal parts of sugar and water in a saucepan and heating until sugar is dissolved. Cool before using. Mix lemonade in a punch bowl for back-yard barbecue. For canyon party, use a large thermos jug. (For pink lemonade, add 1 cup red fruit juice or punch.)