[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Annual | Author: Parker]
[Annual Report for 1960 Hulda Parker]
c^ixty    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  June  1901 
*'FoR  THE  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women 
OF  All  Nations" 
BRIGHAM  YOUNCrS  BIRTHDAY  —  ONE  HUNDRED  YEARS:  The  first 
day  of  June  of  this  present  year  marked  the  century  hour  of  the  birth  of  Brigham 
Young,  the  founder  of  Utah,  the  great  pioneer,  colonizer  and  organizer,  and  for  forty- 
three  years  president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Brigham 
Young  was  one  of  the  greatest  men  of  the  nineteenth  century,  perhaps  the  greatest 
except  Joseph  Smith,  certainly  so  considered  by  the  people  among  whom  almost  his 
entire  life  was  spent.  His  was  a  master-spirit,  and  a  mind  quick  to  grasp  and  settle  — 
great  and  grave  questions.  ...  He  had  a  wonderful  faculty  of  controlling  and  of  guid- 
ing people  of  all  classes  and  nationalities.  .  .  .  And  as  time  rolls  on  more  and  more  will 
the  people  of  the  world  be  willing  to  acknowledge  his  good  works,  his  deeds  of  valor  .  .  . 
his  greatness  of  soul. 
— Editorial 
A  FAITHFUL  WOMAN:  June  14,  1869,  the  Relief  Society  of  this  ward  (Fair- 
view,  Utah)  was  organized  and  Sister  Mary  A.  Pritchett  was  chosen  its  president,  which 
responsible  position  she  has  held  with  dignity  and  pride  up  to  the  day  of  her  decease, 
February  27,  1901.  ...  As  we  review  in  mind  her  life  work  we  wonder  if  there  are 
many  who  ever  with  so  scanty  opportunity  performed  so  many  blessed  deeds  of  charity 
and  benevolence.  She  was  ever  at  the  bedside  of  the  sick;  her  motherly  counsel  was 
never  sought  in  vain  by  man,  woman  or  child;  the  needy  were  never  refused  assist- 
ance when  they  applied  to  her,  and  were  usually  supplied  with  employment  —  the  best 
of  help  to  the  poor.  Her  spinning  and  weaving  never  pressed  her  so  hard  that  she  had 
not  time  to  attend  to  her  religious  duties.  .  .  . 
— Euphrasia  Day,  Sec. 
We  need  not  wealth  nor  splendor. 
Wide  hall  nor  lordly  dome; 
The  good,  the  true,  the  tender  — 
These  form  the  wealth  of  home. 
— Selected 
DOMESTIC  LIFE  AND  THE  PROFESSIONS:  True,  it  might  well  be  said, 
that  the  proper  order  of  things  should  be  for  the  father  to  be  the  bread-winner,  and 
the  mother  the  home-maker;  for  the  ideal  home  is  consecrated  by  both  paternal  and 
maternal  love,  and  its  sweetest  music  the  prattle  of  little  children.  But  inscrutable  are 
hfe's  experiences!  Oftentimes  woman  must  meet  the  exigencies  of  the  case  alone  and 
unaided,  she  must  do  and  dare,  lift  the  burden  and  look  to  heaven  for  strength  and 
light  and  wisdom.  The  true  womanly  woman  will  make  the  best  wife  and  mother, 
whate'er  may  be  her  vocation. 
— Ellis  R.  Shipp 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  IN  ST.  JOSEPH  STAKE  (ARIZONA):  The  semi-annual 
conference  of  the  Relief  Society  of  St.  Joseph  Stake  met  in  the  Pima  meeting  house, 
Friday,  May  17,  1901  .  .  .  President  Elizabeth  Layton  presiding.  Present  on  the  stand 
were  Elder  L.  John  Nuttall  and  President  Emma  S.  Woodruff  of  Salt  Lake  City.  .  .  . 
Sister  Woodruff  said  she  found  the  saints  here  about  as  they  are  in  the  north.  .  .  . 
Urged  the  sisters  to  subscribe  for  the  Exponent.  Advised  mothers  to  look  after  their 
children  and  train  their  daughters  to  do  all  kinds  of  work.  .  .  . 
— Martha  Scadden,  Sec. 
Page  368