[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: To Kis | Author: Christensen]
['To Kis Children's Children" Alberta H. Christensen]

ur family members in literature. My own early attempts to write poetry were taken first to father, for his comment and criticism. Nothing pleased me more than to receive his kind approval of those childhood efforts. I have, since, often thought that our Savior must value beyond mortal knowing, the divine and loving approval of his Father, as expressed in this very significant scripture "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased" (Mt. 3:17). My father, James William Huish, Jr., was the eighth child in a family of ten children. 'Twelve years after the organization of the Church, his parents, James William, Sr., and Helen Niblett Huish, accepted the restored gospel. The family resided in Gloucestershire, England, and in 1857 the father was counseled to 352 come to America that the family might be united with the saints of Zion. Within two years he had saved sufficient monev to send for his wife and children. In May 1861, they left Nebraska, by ox team, for the trek westward. The mother relinquished her place in the overloaded wagon that an injured brother-in-law might ride. As a result, she walked approximately two-thirds of the long distance across the plains, carrying her infant son (my father) in a shawl tied around her waist. 'The journey was of almost four months' duration. ITTLE wonder that my father's faith in the gospel was deeply rooted and unwavering. As foretold in his patriarchal blessing, he engaged in numerous arguments with the infidel during his life, but his faith remained, "as a rock laid deeply in the earth, which no storm can move." Huis understanding of gospel doctrine was enlarged by extensive reading of scripture, commentary, and related theological works. One particular passage of scripture seemed fundamental to his religious beliefs, for I remember his using it frequently. It is familiar scripture and concerns obedience to laws upon which all blessings are predicated. I can hear him now, saying "If we want the blessing, we must abide the law." (See D & C 130:20.) I do not recall hearing my father ever speak ill of any person, express malice, or any degree of envy. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1961 Although his wife and four of his nine children preceded my father in death, his great faith in the gospel, in the reality of family reunion in eternity, was an unfailing support. Father's complete honesty was another outstanding characteristic. I am sure I have never known any person who was more honest than he. It was not merely an honesty in dealing with his neighbor, it was an intellectual and spiritual honesty as well. Pretence in any form seemed to have no place in either his thought or action. It was his firm conviction that success in life has nothing to do with honors of men, but that a man's belief, how he lives, and serves, and the extent to which he triumphs over specific human weaknesses, constitute the only measure of personal accomplishment. In this brief and humble tribute to my father, in which I mention only a few of his admirable qualities, I speak for all who knew and loved him, especially for the daughter with whom he lived for many years after my mother's passing. Millions of children, old and young, will this month express gratitude for their own fathers, who, through unselfish devotion, and through the example of their lives, bequeath to their children the legacy of happy memory, high ideals, and a good name. "A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children" (Proverbs 13:22).