[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: Catherine | Author: Together]
Catherine Johnson Strong and Eliza Creer White Enjoy Rug Mlaking Sogether fs neighbors of Midvale, Utah, have made a happy and useful combination of their hobbies, and they spend many hours together making their specialty — rugs of many kinds. Sister White, at the left, who is eighty-two years old, and Sister Strong, at the right, seventy-nine, are experts in design, selection of materials and colors for their tugs, and have mastered the intricacies of loom weaving. The weaving frame shown in the picture is forty by sixty inches and is made of wood and is adjustable so that rugs can be made wider or longer, as desired. On each end of the frame hooks are placed three-fourths of an inch apart for fastening the denim strips which form the warp for the rug. Strips of used cotton clothing one and one-half inches wide provide the woof for the rugs. Braided and hooked art rugs are also shown in the picture. When rugs and quilts do not demand the attention of Sister Strong, she embroiders, does textile painting, or makes hobby horses for her grandchildren. She loves flowers and maintains her own garden and home, and is grandmother to thirty-seven. For more than thirty years she has been a visiting teacher. Sister White, aside from her civic and religious activities, and the care of her home and flowers, has enjoyed crocheting, tatting, cutwork, needlepoint, water color painting, and making quilts and rugs. Also, she collects rare buttons, some of which were worn on early pioneer clothing. She has a strand of over a thousand buttons. Her collection of souvenir spoons is remarkable for beauty and interest, since the spoons come from many places, purchased or presented to Sister White as gifts. She is especially skilled in making crocheted rugs of discarded woolen materials. Both Sister Strong and Sister White have presented many gifts of handwork and quilts and rugs to relatives and friends and neighbors, and they have assisted the Relief Society sisters in learning the skills which they have mastered so well, and which have greatly enriched their own lives and the lives of many others.