[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Fiction | Title: Mama's Bookshelf| Author: Helen Hinckley Jones]
WHETHER you have a house so full of books that they have overflowed the bookcases and are stacked on every available surface in the home, or one in which the library consists of a half-dozen carefully chosen volumes and a mail order catalogue, you and your family will be happier if Mama has a special bookshelf.

When I was little and grew tired of my own books I would ask my mother to read aloud to me. "Read a book from your shelf," I would beg. Then when I had washed my hands and brushed my hair, I was allowed to take a book from Mama's shelf and bring it to her. Most often it was her copy of Longfellow's poems which, because its binding was a lovely, soft, cream-colored leather, was kept in its own flowered box. I loved to open the box, lift the sheet of crackling transparent paper, and run my fingers over the hand-painted flowers on the cover. But I liked even better mother's reading of the poems. Usually she read the shorter poems, but, often, I would beg for one of the long narrative poems and, if I could round up another of my sisters, Mama would consent to lose an afternoon to Miles Standish or Evangeline.

Sometimes, instead of Longfellow, I would select one of the English poets, all done up in padded leather of maroon or blue, with fourteen karat gold edges. Tennyson was my favorite then, and I loved to sit on the floor, my hands locked under my knees, my head against Mama's skirts, and listen again to "Enoch Arden."

He call'd aloud for Miriam Lane and said: "Woman, I have a secret — only swear Before I tell you — swear upon the book Not to reveal it, till you see me dead."

The tears would roll off my cheeks, and drop onto my pinafore, because I knew that Enoch meant what he said—every word of it.

Papa had books, too. The most favored ones were tremendous volumes filled with pictures from the Bible. (I closed my eyes as he turned past "The Sacrifice of the Innocents.") He also had a book which he had made himself when he was in college—a captivating book filled with dried leaves and flowers and grasses of every kind. There were many other books, of course, since my parents were reading people. We each had books of our own. But it is Mama's Bookshelf that I remember as the strongest influence I felt toward acquiring a library of my own.

IN my home I have shelves loaded with books: history, literature, science, fiction, biography. The very number, I think, has kept my books from meaning as much to my children as Mama's shelf meant to me.

Now that it is almost too late, I have started a special collection of books that are dearly loved and often read. I call it Mama's Bookshelf. I have The Doctrine and Covenants and The Book of Mormon taken from their usual place beside other works of the Church. Then there is a New Testament in large print standing next to Brother Bennion's Teachings, and four other reference books for the study of the New Testament. I have a volume of Washington Irving, four of the Leather Stocking Tales, and The American Democrat by Cooper, The Portable Emerson and the Great Masterpiece edition of Hawthorne, which includes The Scarlet Letter, The House of the Seven Gables and selected stories from Twice-Told Tales. For reference, I have Brooks, The Flowering of New England, Hart and Gohdes America's Literature, and Warfel, Gabriel, and Williams, The American Mind. My Relief Society Magazines are on the shelf, too, always in place and ready to my hand.

It is understood that the shelf, itself, is strictly "hands off." There is room for more books on the shelf, and there are stacks of books all over the house that need shelf space; but odd volumes must not clutter up this shelf. As for the books—anyone who will put them back in place may borrow them and enjoy them.

In a locality where the idea of Mama's Bookshelf was introduced, it has been noted that already this small beginning has been felt in the homes. Husbands are taking an interest and listening to excerpts from the books their wives are reading. Children are hearing adult conversation about ideas rather than personalities and troublesome problems. One sister reported that her grandchildren had added books related to the course in American literature to her shelf.

On my own shelf the books are not beautifully bound as my mother's were. Many of them are paper-back, others are secondhand or cheap editions. But they are wonderful books, books that bring me the association with great men. The books are mine and I love them. But I am not selfish about them. Books are to be enjoyed, shared, lived with.

ALL of us hunger for conversation with the well-informed, the deeply spiritual, the witty, the prophetic. To many of us wide association in our daily lives is not possible. Any mother of little children must live a large part of her life in the world of childhood. This is an opportunity and she appreciates it; but it does not take the place of being intellectually stimulated, emotionally stirred, moved to depths of thought and contemplation that come from living in a truly adult world. Mama's Bookshelf, especially if it is shared with husband and with children as they grow older, will help to satisfy this hunger.

Let Mama's Bookshelf take a place in your home. Try reading aloud to even your tiny children the things that you, yourself, love.

Now that my mother has died, I have her bookshelf. All of the volumes are duplicates of my own well-studied texts; but I wouldn't part with one of them. As I look at them a warm feeling comes over me, and I see myself, a little girl with paper-curled hair, standing on tiptoe to take Longfellow from the shelf. I run my hand over the spray of flowers painted on the soft leather cover, then, oh, so carefully I turn to the story of Hiawatha and settle myself at my mother's knee.