[Vol48 | June 1961 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Fiction | Title: Social | Author: Ballif]
Social Science— The Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan Preview of Lessons for 1961-62 Elder Ariel S. Ballif Course objective: To realize the importance of woman in the plan of salvation, through the full significance of her role in the family as a mother, companion, and covenanted partner in "subduing the earth" and attaining exaltation. O students of the social order, the family is the basic unit and largely the determining factor in a healthy, happy, and enduring society. 'The ups and downs of civilization have been related by these students to the variation in strength and stability of the family as a unit. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints places special importance upon family life. The Church is fully aware of the sociological importance expressed above. It re-emphasizes this importance, and goes much further by pointing out that happiness here is only one phase of family existence. It maintains and testifies to the world that the family is eternal, that the authority by which temple marriages are performed has the power to bind on earth and in heaven. In order to qualify for such a marTlage, one must translate into actions the principles of the gospel, emphasizing the law of chastity and the permanency and sacredness of the marriage covenant. I The major roles of the family are played by people of equal responsibility for the success, welfare, and advancement of all members. The gospel places direct responsibility upon the parents for teaching correct principles and for setting the Page 418 proper examples for the children to follow. Much has been said and written about the men of the Church and their responsibility for the family. This year in our social science lessons we shall look at the place of woman and her responsibility in the home and in the program of the Church. Scripturally, man is not without the woman in the sight of God, and exaltation in the highest order of the celestial kingdom of God cannot be attained without success in the marriage covenant. Therefore, we will consider in the first two lessons the eminence of the woman's position in the gospel of Jesus Christ, together with the equality She enjoys in the basic teachings and practices. No one can enjoy eminence in our society without qualifying in terms of successful achievement. Possibly, the most worthy for this recognition are they who love their fellow men and devote their lives to service. In the third, fourth, and fifth lessons we will consider service as the mission of motherhood. No phase of life requires so much in patience, determination, selflessness, and complete dedication as true motherhood. In turn, nothing undertaken by human beings offers LESSON DEPARTMENT greater rewards in terms of successful achievement. Than the mother who offers to society well-rounded, responsible, and achieving sons and daughters. Society in general and the Church in particular depend upon the effectiveness of the family unit for the progress and fulfillment of the great destiny of man. In lessons six and seven we shall examine woman's influence in and contribution to the functioning of the Church program. Besides being a homemaker and companion to her husband and family members, she exerts a great influence on the activity of the Priesthood and in the realization of the objectives of the gospel. The Priesthood leadership has expressed great confidence in women of the Church. They have recognized their mental ability, given expression to their creativeness, and encouraged them to increase their influence with their husbands and sons in the carrying out of their Priesthood responsibilities. The underlying objective of these lessons is to stimulate the women of the Church more fully to recognize their importance in the successful operation of the program of the Church, and to offer a challenge to improve their abilities so they can more effectively carry out their equal responsibilities in making the Latter-day Saint homes more distinctive in terms of what they produce. THE EMINENCE OF WOMAN Lesson 1 —. The Scripture and Womans Place Objective: To help the women of the 419 Church more fully to realize their divinely ordained position. Lesson 2 — Full Equality in the Gospel Plan Objective: To discover the true significance of unity in the marriage covenant. SERVICE — THE MISSION OF MOTHERHOOD Lesson 3 — Motherhood, the Highest Type of Service Objective: To realize the implied obligation and the responsibility of motherhood. Lesson 4 — Homemaking, a Creative Calling Objective: To emphasize the importance of creating an environment of physical, intellectual, and spiritual beauty in the home. Lesson 5 — Homemaking, a Creative Calling (Continued ) Objective: To help women realize the necessity of continued personal development. WOMEN AND CHURCH ACTIVITY Lesson 6 — How Women Share in the Blessings of the Priesthood Objective: To increase our understanding of the way in which women participate in the blessings of the Priesthood. Lesson 7 — Fulness of Life and Exaltation Objective: To stress the importance of obedience to law in attaining the blessing of exaltation and to summarize woman's place in the gospel plan. llotes on the Authors of the of essons HIS year two new writers are represented among the authors of the lessons and introduced to readers of the Magazine. Biographical sketches of Elder Ariel S. Ballif, author of the social science lessons, and Mrs. Elaine Anderson Cannon, author of the work meeting discussions, follow: RIEL Smith Ballif was born in Logan, Utah, December 1, 1901, the son of John Lyman and Emma Smith Ballif. He married the former Artemesia (Arta) Romney, and is the father of five children. His life-long service in the Church has included fifteen years of service in YMMIA, president of the elders' quorum, one of the seven presidents of his Seventies quorum. He has served also as bishop, high councilman, and stake president. 'Twice he has been called to serve in the New Zealand Mission. His first mission was spent as principal of the Maori Agricultural College. His most recent service in the mission field was as president of the New Zealand Mission during the building and dedication of the temple, and just prior to the division of the mission and organization of the first stake there. He is presently serving as patriarch of the East Provo Stake and has been called to work in the Salt Lake Temple, officiating in the sealing ordinances. He graduated from Brigham Young University with the Bachelor degree and received his Doctor of Philosophy degree from the University of Southern California. He taught in high school and Page 420 seminary before finishing his graduate study and before joining the faculty of Brigham Young University. At B. Y. U. He has served as chairman of the department of sociology and dean of the Summer School. He is listed in Who's Who in America, and is a member of the Academy of Arts and Science, Alpha Kappa Delta, and Phi Kappa Phi. He is a member of the board of directors for the Utah Conference of Social Work, and is serving as a member of the Governor's Committee on Aging for Utah, and the Utah State Detention Standards Committee. He is also an elected member of the Provo City Council. Ww OK OK OK LAINE Anderson Cannon, a daughter of Aldon J. And Minnie E. Anderson, was born and educated in Salt Lake City. She graduated from the University of Utah with a degree in sociology and a career well on its way in journalism, for she was already Society and Women's Editor of the Deseret News. Elaine married D. James Cannon, Tourist and Publicity Director for the State of Utah, in March 1943. Brother Cannon has been a bishop of Highland View, Monument Park Fifth, and Monument Park Tenth wards. They are the parents of two sons and four daughters. For many years Sister Cannon has been a feature writer and has conducted her own column for teens in the Deseret News.