		MILL CREEK WARD, July 14, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:	Mill Creek Ward Relief Society is in a
flourishing condition and under the guid-


ance of the Bishop of the Ward, Reuben
Miller. Mrs. Mary McAllister, President,
Sisters Elizabeth Park and Ann Morgan,
Counselors, Sister Elizabeth Carlyle, Secre-
tary, Sister Orice Miller, Treasurer. Our
President is a woman that is alive to her
duty at all times, in looking after the wants
of the poor and needy; the Society owns a
good meeting house well furnished and car-
peted, and withal, very comfortable.
	I believe the meetings to be productive
of much good, and edifying to the sisters
who attend them; there are some of the
sisters who have been baptized for their
dead and they rejoice in the great and
glorious principles that have been revealed
in these the latter days; how great, grand
and noble the work of God is.
	Oh, let us try and be faithful and do our
part; we can help much. We want salva-
tion, and with the help of Israel's God we
will persevere by walking in the fear of the
Lord. Our enemies are assiduous in their
labors; they make a bugbear of Polygamy,
and I believe "a gnat would choke them
while a camel would ne'er be felt."
	I think if our would-be-friends would
look at home they would need to blush for
shame, instead of coming among this peo-
ple to reform them.
	The song of Polygamy has been sung so
much that it has become quite stale; some-
thing new by way of variety would be a
change. There is one thing they have got
to learn yet, and that is, "two are better than
one, and a three-fold cord is not quickly
broken." We do not believe that Polygamy
detracts from a woman's sphere, we can but
believe that it is Monogamy that degrades
her in this generation; we believe in Wo-
man's Rights, and it is her right to have a
husband and a home; we think there are
not many women that would refuse this
heaven-born gift; but it is truth we are
seeking, it is truth we love for itself alone
and truth we intend to follow. She needs
no breastworks to shield herself behind, but
proudly stands upon her own merits.

	"Oh! say what is truth, 'tis the fairest gem
	To which mortals or gods can aspire;
	And priceless the value of truth will be
	When the proud monarch's costliest diadem
	Is counted but dross and refuse."

				Respectfully,
									I. P. W.


