			HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. ELISE M. Shipp. who has been East
recently, studying in the Woman's Medical Col-
lege in Philadelphia, has opened a series of
lectures to the medical class of ladies in this
city, who have been engaged in the study of
medicine and obstetrics for some time. Dr. S.
B. Young has taken great pains in lecturing to
this class for a long time. He has labored with
a great deal of zeal and perseverance to give
them all the information possible in courses of
lectures. They commence every Saturday
morning at ten o'clock at the Office of Wo-
man's Exponent. Mrs. Shipp's lectures will
be given immediately after, from eleven to

[Column 2]
twelve. To all the sisters who are seeking
information in this branch of science, a gener-
al invitation is given.
	We publish below a brief synopsis of Mrs.
Shipp's Introductory lecture.
	She opens her lecture by soliciting the
leniency of those to whom she is speaking in
consideration of her inexperience, but is most
anxious if she possesses any knowledge which
will benefit them to aid them in the pursuit
they have undertaken and help to lighten their
tasks, if she can do this effectually, then she
will have gained her object. After speaking
at some length on the subject of medicine and
the qualifications necessary for the attainment
of any proficiency in the science, she says, "es-
pecially with us as a people there should be no
such word as 'fail," for in addition to the nat-
ural capabilities of mind, we have to aid us
faith and the spirit of revelation." She then
points out a few of the necessary pre-requisites
to the successful student of medicine.
	First a natural love for the profession, both
theoretically and practically.
	Second, a strong will and firm determina-
tion of purpose that no common obstacle can
hinder.
	Third, The nerves should be strong, with
power to control the emotional nature.
	Fourth, The physical system in the highest
state of healthful perfection.
	Fifth, Suitable text-books.
	Sixth, Competent teachers.
	Seventh, Clinical advantages.
	Eighth, Undisturbed time.
	These are only a few she thinks, yet they are
the most essential. Love for the profession,
she places at the head of the list, believing it
to be of the greatest importance, knowing that
love for any object or pursuit, is the best incen-
tive for earnest work and application. She
points out the many attractions the study pre-
sents to those who desire to gain truth and
light and to feast their own souls, and then
adds that to benefit and bless our fellow crea-
tures, is the greatest and grandest aim
of mortals; that in God's kingdom there
should be no thought of self-aggrandizement,
but the welfare of His people.
	She advises those who enter upon this or any
other field of labor to fortify themselves
against all interference and discouraging influ-
ences, and after saying many plain and excel-
lent things with regard to this, she says: "that
with a resolute will and faith in God, none can
surpass the women of Utah whom the world
pities so supremely." She has said so many
good things that it is hard work to cull out the
main points, but we have not space to publish
more than these few items, but will add her
closing remarks.
	"The teacher in any phase of life, assumes
great responsibility, for it is no small undertak-
ing to attempt to express ideas in the most for-
cible manner and present them to others in
that light which will soonest illuminate their
minds. Especially is it so when our inter-
views are limited to one a week. It has been a
subject of much thought and reflection with
me, how and what to give you that will prove
most beneficial; I desire to give you ideas thatwill prove the greatest practical benefit. The
long, hard names in Anatomy, in fact the dull
abstract ideas in any branch given as mere
facts only, with which to tax the memory
will prove of very little utility in your pres-
ent circumstances.

