				TO HAL.

	And you are a school-teacher! you have
my sympathy, if you are indeed one of
that patiently suffering and imposed-upon
class, who plod steadily on, year after year,
and endure the whips and scorn of an out-
rageous fortune." But even this is better
than to fly to others that we know not of."
	But what could lead you to think that
you are older than I am, I can't imagine.
	You must be anti-quated, indeed! or are
you uncle-quated?
	Now don't presume to dictate to your
grandmother. Older than I indeed! I flat-
ter myself that there are few teachers in
this vicinity who possess a more profound
and extensive stock of information on the
subject of tea. (abbreviation of teaching,)
t[-]an I do.
	On the wall, just opposite to me, I see this
motto: "Be not wise in thine own eyes."
I read it with complacency, knowing that it
cannot apply to me. And now as an illus-
tration of the vast experience I have had, I
will just give you a piece of advice, which,
if you will follow you will find of great ben-
efit in every-day, practical work in the
school-room.
	For example: Two of your pupils come
to you with an apple—or some other edible,
perhaps a fine spring onion—each declaring
that it is his very own.
	Now how are you to decide the question
of which it belongs to? It is simply an im-
possibility. It may belong to both. Under
these trying circumstances, assume your
most severe and dignified manner, look
them steadily in the eye at the same time,
calmly take the disputed property and eat
it yourself. Then in a stern voice bid your
pupils return to their books. This will in-
spire confidence on their part, in your supe-
rior wisdom. They will at once see the jus-
tice of your action, and will undoubtedly
retire subdued to tears by this impartial
act of yours, and spend the rest of the day
in vain regrets for the lost apple. I am
sorry to say I have never read "Hannah
Jane." Judging from what I have read of
"Nasby's" writings it is rather on the con-
cise order like the "Widow Bedott's.
	You remember the poetry she made eu-
logizing the deacon, while she was sitting
under the spreading branches of an old
tree, and repeated them loud enough to be
heard by the deacon who was sitting on the
other side of the tree, preparing his ser-
mon for the coming sabbath. But of course
she didn't know it.
	Of course it is amusing to read such poe-
try, but one could scarcely become so
deeply engrossed in it as to become obliv-
ious to all mundane affairs.
	But really, it is almost too sultry to-day
to express an opinion on any subject. In
fact it fatigues me to write, so I shall short-
en this article, (it is slightly mixed, but all
owing to this extremely disagreeable weath-
er) by dropping part of my long name, and
sign myself, simply—
						OLD MAID.
	P. S. Although I have not the mascu-
line failing of curiosity, I should really like
to see you, just for fun.
[handwritten] Augusta Winters	O.M.


