[COLUMN 1]

price of colored muslin or printed calico, is
the same whether the figure be pretty or
ugly; the ribbon that is tastefully disposed
upon the bonnet, costs no more than the
one that is ill arranged. The shawl is the
same in value whether it is dragged round
the shoulders like an Indian's blanket, or
worn in graceful folds. It costs no more to
buy colors that harmonize than those that
do not. Indeed, true taste will generally
be found on the side of economy, because
simplicity is;—the first cost is thus lessen-
ed, and garments that are really well shap-
ed, are longer in favor. The exercise of
good taste, therefore, need not be consider-
ed the privilege of the few; it may regulate
the toilet of her who earns what she ex-
pends upon it, as well as for her whose bills
are paid by a rich father; the more it is
studies the more good sense and simplicity
will be consulted, because these are includ-
ed in the principles of true taste.
	Whilst taste may be made to regulate the
dress of all, even of the working classes,
wealth, unaccompanied by it, cannot com-
mand its beautiful results. Your clothes
may be ordered of the best dressmaker, and
everything you wear may be of the most
costly materials, and in the latest Paris
fashion; and yet you may spoil your appear-
ance by your manner of putting them on,
and by wearing those articles together
which do not accord. The most expensive
dresses at a ball are seldom those that pro-
duce the best effect; and nothing so effect-
ually defeats its object, as an excess of or-
nament. Some persons seem to have an
inherent love of finery, and seem to cling
to it pertinaciously, even when their under-
standings are convinced that it is repug-
nant to the feelings of refined minds, and
that it is a trait common to all barbarous
tribes: they cannot reason upon their pref-
erences—they can only say, that what oth-
ers condemn as tawdry, looks pretty to
them. This persuasion generally takes
place very early, and is much to be regret-
ed, as it prevents the growth of purer prin-
ciples. We have often thought that the
very bad taste in which dolls are usually
dressed, may have something to do with
this early love of finery. Children have of-
ten a real affection for their puppets; and
when they are bedizened in all the colours
of the rainbow, and decked in all the odds
and ends of finery that can be stuck upon
them, the little dears learn, by this associa-
tion, to love this tawdry ornament: whereas
a well-dressed doll would have an import-
ant influence in establishing a correct taste
in the mind of the child. We once knew a
family where the dolls were all very neatly
dressed, like babies and little children, and
not as fine ladies, on purpose to make them
a more rational and useful source of amuse-
ment; and we would beg all young ladies
who dress dolls for little girls, to do it in
such a manner as not to foster a love of fin-
ery.
	We have heard a mother who guarded
her daughters against this bad taste by mak-
ing it one of their childish punishments to
weak a very tawdry cap full of feathers, and
flowers, and bows of ribbons of all colours.
Judging by what we sometimes see worn
by grown up people, we might suppose that
such a cap had been their reward in child-
hood rather than their punishment, and was
thus recommended to their best affections.
The love of finery is rarely cured, and forms
an insurmountable obstacle to the cultiva-
tion of pure taste. Whosoever is conscious
of possessing it, ought to mistrust her own
judgment in matters of taste, and be will-
ing to take the advice of others. No plain-

