		SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES,
			AUSTRALIA, May 27th, 1876.
MRS. EMMELINE WELLS:
		MY DEAR FRIEND AND SISTER.
	Your welcome and very interesting let-
ter of Feb. 19th came to hand on the 6th
inst., but not in time for me to reply by re-
turn mail, as the mail steamer for San Fran-
cisco left Sydney the same day.
	I tender you many thanks for your kind
token of remembrance to me in this dis-
tant land where amid strangers "my pil-
grim feet now roam," and where I am dil-
igently laboring to dispel the sable clouds
of ignorance, bigotry, superstition and er-
ror from the minds of a people who seem to
be fettered in the galling chains of Priest-
craft, and who, judging from my stand-
point, are living without light, liberty or
God. From what I had read, and pre-
viously heard of Australia, I had formed a
very favorable opinion of the people, the
climate, the productions and the general
character and resources of these colonies,
and when the S. S. Colima entered the Syd-
ney harbor, which, I believe is acknowl-
edged to be the finest—(except one—in the
world,) I felt that nothing which I had ever
read or heard of Australia, had been exagg-
erated or in the least overdrawn.
	It was on the evening of Dec. 25th, the
sea during the day had been unusually
rough, and the steamer had been rolling and
plunging amoug the huge billows at a fear-
ful rate, so much so, indeed, as to awaken
within me such kind and benevolent feel-
ings towards all animated things in gener-
al, and towards the inhabitants of the
ocean in particular, that I gave them every
morsel of my Christmas dinner, and tried
hard to get up my boots to throw over-
board. Under these circumstances we
passed the "Light-house," situated on the
perpendicular rocks at the entrance of
Port Jackson, about eight miles from Syd-
ney. After passing "Heads," as these
rocks are denominated, and on entering the
bay the sea suddenly became calm, the ves-
sel ceased to roll, and everything around
seemed transformed as if by magic, to the
most peaceful tranquility, and heavenly se-
renity; the gentle zephyrs like angels of
peace, laden with sweetest fragrance, from
Oleander and Orange groves, came out to
meet us, as if to congratulate us upon our
safe arrival, and bid us welcome to the
spicy shores of Australia. And as the beau-
tiful "Colima," like a great white swan,
glided majestically up this lovely bay, and
the bright lights gleamed from the villages,
which lay nestled among the hills on either
side, and coupled with this enchanting
scenery, the cheering thought, that my
wearisome, unpleasant, and monotonous
journey from San Francisco, over the great
Pacific Ocean, was at an end, and that with-
in a few hours, I should once more, set my
feet on "Terra Firma," presented to my mind
the most bewitchingly beautiful, and lovely
picture that I had ever before contempla-
ted; and my soul was filled with love and
admiration for Sydney, and for several hours
of that night, I felt as the Queen of Sheba
must have felt, when visiting and behold-
ing the greatness and glory of Solomon. I
really felt that the half had not been told of
this beautiful and wonderful country, But
every picture hath its light and shade,
"sunshine and shadow" are the characteris-
tics of this life, and I have always endeav-
or to look at the bright side of every pic-
ture for I experience more pleasure in look-

[Column 2]
ing at the silver lining of the clouds than
in contemplating the dark shadows beyond
that lovely lining; hence, my favorable im-
pressions relative to Australia. But a few
weeks residence in Sydney, changed very
materially my ideas of these colonies.
	The country suffered during seven or
eight months of the past year, from a most
blighting and destructive drouth, very lit-
tle rain having fallen during that period,
consequently, so far as the vegetable pro-
ductions of the country are concerned I saw
everything at a great disadvantage, and for
this I am inclined to make due and full al-
lowance; but I have looked, and still look,
but in vain, for the bright side of the
lovely Sydney picture I fancied, before
treading on Australian soil; for if there be
but little good, I would like to find that
little, and in the language of the Poet—
"Speak of all the best I can," and in jus-
tice to the colony of New South Wales, I
will say that I have seen many things here
to admire. The safe and beautiful Harbor,
the Post Office and many other fine build-
ings, the Public Parks, the Botanical Gar-
dens, the free Public Library and Reading
Rooms, and the excellent condition of the
public roads, are all worthy of commenda-
tion. Many tropical fruits and flowers at-
tain here (in ordinary seasons) great perfec-
tion, and I have found some kind, intelligent
and hospitable people in and around Syd-
ney. The women here as a general rule, are
superior to the men both in looks and intel-
lectual development and culture. There
are many handsome and intelligent women
in Sydney, but I cannot fully agree with
what is frequently said of them, "that for
superior beauty and accomplishments, they
are pre-eminent."
	Now a few words in relation to the dark
shadows which I am compelled to see, not-
withstanding my natural inclination to look
on the other side. The "soocial status" of
the citizens of this city, I cannot but re-
gard as most deplorable; drunkenness pre-
vails to an alarming degree, and what makes
this debasing practice doubly dangerous
and demoralizing, is the fact, that women
as well as men, are addicted to it. I have
seen more drunken women in one day in
Sydney than I ever saw in Salt Lake City,
during my residence there of twenty-one
years. Nearly every corner house in this
city, is a liquor saloon, where spirituous and
fermented liquors are retailed; and the ven-
ders of this destructive beverage, in nearly
all cases are women, and the wages of a
"Bar-maid" are generally graded or regula-
ted, by her personal beauty or attractions;
the finest looking girls, demand and re-
ceive the highest wages. Domestic infelic-
ity here is the rule, and peaceful, happy
homes the exception. Wife beating, is a
common practice among the "lords of crea-
tion" in this land; many men (in form,) in-
dulge in this elevating practice with as lit-
tle compunctions of conscience apparently,
as an intelligent father would gently chide
his child with words of admonition and
counsel.
	Such is the state of Sydney morals, and
society, and yet, they will prate about Utah
and the Mormons, and Priests and people
will roll their eyes, and lift their hands in
holy horror, while contemplating the awful
oppression and galling slavery of the wo-
men of Salt Lake City; whose condition in
reality, and temporal blessings compared
with the women of Sydney, are as light to
darkness, or as heaven to hell, to say noth-
ing of the hopes of a glorious resurrection,
eternal unions beyond the grave, and ever-
lasting glory and exaltation in the pres-

[Column 3]
ence of God our heavenly and eternal Fa-
ther.
	God bless you my dear Sister, and aid
you in your laudable efforts to disseminate
through the medium of the EXPONENT
those principles and doctrines, which when
understood and observed, will redeem men
and women from the thraldom of sin and
oppression, will banish evil, the bane of
society, from the human heart, will enable
God's children dwelling on the earth to at-
tain to the highest type of manhood and
womanhood, and will usher in that happy
day, when one law will bind all nations,
kindred, tongues and people, and that law
will be the law of universal Brotherhood,
then will the earth be prepared for Jesus
our elder brother and Savior, whose right it
is to come and reign King of Nations as
He now reigns King of Saints.
	I am as ever, your friend and brother, in
the Gospel of Peace,
						ISAAC GROO,
	P. S. Remember me kindly and in love
to your family and inquiring friends, and
accept my sincere thanks for the EXPO-
NENT.
							I. G.


