FLORAL HINTS.

	A WRITER in the "Ladies Floral Cabi-
net" describes how to make what is termed
a Hanging Garden.—Take a large white
sponge and sew it full of canary, grass,
hemp, rice and other seeds; then place it in
a shallow dish and keep a little water con-
stantly in the dish, and the sponge will ab-
sorb the moisture, and in about a week the
seeds will begin to sprout. When they
have grown a little the sponge can be hung
up in a window where the sun can get at
it by means of a cord or two. Soon it will
become a mass of green foliage which is al-
ways pretty to look at. Wet the sponge
every day by pouring water lightly upon it,
and if it absorbs much water and becomes
dry during the day wet it with warm water.
	FLOWERS FOR WINDOWS: Plants should
be placed where they can have the greatest
amount of sunlight possible. East and south 
windows are the best although west win-
dows will do: too many plants should not
be crowded into one window. The pots
need to be turned every few days. Fresh
air should be given them every day that
is mild enough, by opening the doors or let-
ting down the windows from the top. If
there is much dust arising from sweeping
carpets or other causes they will need fre-
quent showering with warm water. It is
best to shower them on cloudy days; if
plants are sprinkled with the sun shining
upon them it has a tendency to injure the
leaves. The evening is a good time to
shower them; the soil in the pot should be
stirred every time the plant has a thorough
watering; for this purpose a stiff hair-pin
is a very good thing. The best plan to have
good healthy window plants for winter, is to
have new plants started from slips during
the summer, or those that have been kept
in pots. If any of the cuttings wilt, cover
them with a glass tumbler or lamp-chimney;
as fast as the slips take root transplant them
into two or three inch pots; keep them
shaded from four days to a week. Cuttings
can be rooted this way during the summer
and autumn and you can have fine plants
for winter.


