[COLUMN 2]

ness of dress can ever be construed to your
disadvantage; but ornamental additions,
which in their best state are a very doubt-
ful good, become a positive evil when de-
faced, or soiled, or tumbled. Shabby feath-
ers, and crushed or faded artificial flowers,
are an absolute disgrace to a lady's appear-
ance; while their total absence would never
be remarked. Next to soiled stockings,
soiled bonnet-caps are the most offensive
things in a young lady's dress; and the lat-
ter are but too common. Whatever ap-
proaches the face should be particularly
clean; and it is better always to wear those
materials which will wash than to use silk
net after it is at all sullied by wear. Color-
ed gauze hankerchiefs, that are worn till
they are faded, or sullied, or the color
changed by perspiration, are a disagreeable
sight, and will spoil the neat appearance of
a person, however well dressed otherwise;
cleanliness being the first requisite in a
lady's dress.
	Such qualities of mind are brought into
action in connection with dress that we
cannot wonder at its having great influence
on the opinions that are formed of us. Who,
that sees a young lady very carefully array-
ed at a ball, and finds her when at home,
and not expecting company, in a torn or
soiled dress, can fail to draw conclusions un-
favorable to the character of the individual?
If you have a friend who has lately be-
come insolvent, and you see his daughters
appear, soon after, in new and costly gar-
ments, what are your feelings? Is not all
admiration of their costume lost, in the
sense of its betraying a want of common
honesty, thus to spend the money that be-
longs to their father's creditors? And does
not this exhibition of lax principles do
them more harm than any personal decora-
tion can do them good? Dress is a very fair
index of a young woman's neatness, indus-
try, economy, good sense, modesty, and
good taste; and she, who is at all times, in
her private as well as in her public hours,
perfectly well dressed, according to all that
we include in that term, must have many
of the substantial qualities that constitute a
good character and are essential to domes-
tic comfort. The character is much more
shown in the style of dress that is worn ev-
ery day, than in that which is designed for
great occasions; and when we see a young
girl come down to the family breakfast
in an untidy wrapper, with her hair in pa-
pers and her feet slip-shod, and an old silk
handkerchief round her neck, we know
that she cannot be the neat, industrious,
and refined person whom we would like for
an inmate. We feel equally certain too,
that her chamber is not kept in good order,
and that she does not set a proper value up-
on time. However well a lady has appear-
ed at a party, we would recommend to a
young gentleman, before he makes up his
mind as to her domestic qualities, to ob-
serve her appearance at the breakfast-table,
when she expects to see only her own fam-
ily; and, if it be such as we have just de-
scribed, to beware how he prosecutes the
acquaintance.
	To begin the day well it is necessary to
rise early enough to perform all the ablu-
tions necessary to health and cleanliness,
and to be neatly and completely dressed be-
fore breakfast. Your morning dress should
always be such that you would not be
ashamed to be seen in, by any accidental
visitor; and a clean muslin collar, or ruffie,
of the plainest materials, give an impress-
ion of far greater neatness than a colored
handkerchief. If you are suitably dressed
or the business of the morning, you are

