NOTES AND NEWS.

	AN INGENIOUS specimen of woman's 
work at the Exposition is from Peru. It is
a bust of President Grant, made of the fin-
est wire, so fine that at first sight it has the 
appearance of velvet. It is said to be eas-
ily recoguized, although not at all flatter-
ing.
	"THE NEW Century for Woman" places
the names George Sand and George Elliot
as the two women who have achieved the
honor of placing the novel at the head of
dramatic art; not Scott, or Dickens, or 
Thackery, or Bulwer.
	ONE of the most notable of woman's 
works in art is the marble statue of Samuel
Adams, modeled and carved by Miss Whit-
ney of Boston. It has been on exhibition
at the Boston Athenaum for some time, and
by the best judges pronounced a wonderful
achievement. It was designed for the Cap-
itol at Washington. It is said to be "full of
character and expression, simple and manly
in attitude; and with the expression of
great beauty of thought and feeling."
	THERE IS an Italian lady now residing at
Rome, Madame Maraini, who is said to be
a sculptor of wonderful genius and talent, and
also of most striking originality in her ideas
and conceptions. In her studio among the
many specimens, portraits, busts, statuettes,
etc. a most magnificent life-sized figure of
Sappho. It represents her standing upright,
leaning back again against a bit of rock, the
head a little inclined forward, in the expres-
sion of the features, and about the eyes and
mouth a look of despair. The right arm
and hand from which the drapery is thrown
gracefully back, is pressed close to her breast
as if to still the tumultuous beating of her
agonized heart. It represents her just at
the moment she is about to take the fatal
leap from the Leucadian rock. A lady cor-
respondent writing from Rome to the Bos-
ton "Journal" says: "It is the most ex-
pressive piece of sculpture I have ever
seen." It is to be regretted that it was not
sent to the Philadelphia Exhibition. It is
to go to the Salon Exposition at Paris, and
it is expected will receive either a gold
medal or honorable mention. The lady's 
husband is editor of the most popular news-
paper in Rome, "Il Diretto.'


