HOME HAPPINESS.

	There are some sweet words which never be-
come hackneyed, however much they may be
used; and HOME is one of them. "Home!"
"Our home!" But how do we understand the
term? Should the habitation in which jar-
ring, unkind expressions are common, where
love and confidence and tender sympathies are
wanting, be known by that sacred name? We
must admit that the dear word is too often thus
profaned. But as we take it, home means a
place of enduring cheer. A place of rest, of
quiet repose for the care-worn and weary. A
place of social freedom and gladness which
can never be found outside the hallowed pre-
cincts, in the cold, carless world.
	It is not perfect home if the strength and
vigor of manhood, with its protecting, furnish-
ing care be wanting; or if the calm, pure in-
fluence of womanly grace and gentleness be
not there; or lacking the sweet music of child-
ren's voices. But all these powers must be de-
lightfully and harmoniously blended to make
a home complete.
	Then there are certain individual character-
istics to be possessed by each member of a fam-
ily, and certain household rules to be observed,
which combine to make home what it should
be, really the dearest, brightest, happiest
place on earth. Among the very first princi-
ples to be inculcated, should be strict honesty
and industry. Where these two important
items are justly regarded, it is strange if all
the other pleasing virtues do not shine forth
with their proper lustre. Honesty and indus-
try are surely the founders of cheerfulness and
of order; they have much to do in a general
way, with temperance and with all the devo-
tional emotions. The enjoyment of all real
pleasure depends greatly upon the possession
and use of these principles.
	No bread is so sweet as that which is earned
by honest industry, no sleep so refreshing
as that won by the same blessed medium.
The boy who is sent to a "free school" and has
no concern about the finding of board and
clothes, can never prize the blessings of an ed-
ucation so fully as the one who pays the world
for all he receives of it by his own honest
labor. Says a great philosopher of the present
age, "we have a nation of thieves and murder-
ers. And why is this? Is it the man who is
raised a farmer that becomes a thief and a
murderer? No! Is it the one who has been
raised a mechanic or a mason? No! Such
men can find honest employment by which to
earn a living. But those who are sent to 'free
schools," and are then turned out upon the world
knowing nothing of work or how to sustain
themselves honestly, are the men who enter


into intrigues and commit crimes as a means
of obtaining a livlehood."
	Such statements as the above could not be
truly made of our nation had the homes
of the United States, for the past cen-
tury, exhibited the respect and honor which
should be shown to the great principles of hon-
esty and industry. The home of the truly in-
dustrious is generally the home of true happi-
ness, and such should be the home of every
Latter-day Saint.
				[handwritten] E. B. Wells


