[COLUMN 3]

ready to enter upon it at once and much
time is saved; you are not discomposed by
unexpected guests; and, if particularly en-
gaged, you can wear the same dress all day.
Very yonng girls are apt to think that the
most important item in their dress is the
material of which their frocks are made,
whereas that is really of the least conse-
quence. Clean stockings, neat shoes and
strings, smooth, well-brushed hair, and
delicately clean hands, nails, and teeth,
would make them look more lady-like, and
better dressed, in a cheap calico, than they
would be in the finest merino, or most costly
French silk without these accompaniments.
Those things which are most essential to a
neat appearance, are most within the reach
of everybody, and therefore the neglect of
them is not to be excused. Everybody can
mend stockings and gloves, however old
they may be; everybody can avoid break-
ing shoe-strings by wearing them too tight,
or having them become untied, by tying
them in false knots. Clean hands and nails,
and well-brushed hair and teeth, it is with-
in everybody's power to possess; and with-
out constant attention to these particulars,
the most expensive garments will fail to
produce the effect you desire. The same
honesty and self-respect which would keep
you from making a saving that you are
ashamed of, should prevent you wearing
anything, even out of sight, that you would
be ashamed to have seen, if sudden indisposi-
tion caused it to be exposed before stran-
gers. We should gladly adopt every con-
trivance for saving time and abridging the
labour necessarily bestowed upon dress.
Those who know how to use the needle af-
ter the best fashion of our grandmothers'
days, may next acquire the art of slighting
certain parts of their work, where it will
not interfere with durability, and so save
some thousand superfluous stitches in a
week. If it has been the misfortune of
any of my readers to have grown up with-
out being made good needlewomen, the
sooner they undertake to supply this defi-
ciency the better. A woman who does not
know how to sew is as deficient in her ed-
ucation as a man who cannot write. Let
her condition in life be what it may, she
cannot be ignorant of the use of her needle,
without incommoding herself and others,
and without neglecting some important du-
ties. Besides this, there is, in this truly
feminine employment, a moral power which
is useful to the sex. There is a soothing
and sedative effect in needle-work; it com-
poses the nerves, and furnishes a corrective
for many of the little irritations of domes-
tic life. Let no woman think herself ex-
empt from the duty of "plying the polish-
ed shaft." In every situation of life, she
will find herself the better for an early and
thorough acquaintance with plain sewing.
