A Kind Heart By Mrs. T. W. Stevenson It was the morning before Thanksgiving. A biting cold wind whistled around the point of the mountain. It swept powdered snow down the gully, and shook the bare trees along the Jordan river bank.; A child walking on the frozen road struggled to draw the thin worn coat more closely to cover hands blue with cold. A truck was approaching, spluttering and back-firing. "Even the truck is cold," thought the child, as he stepped aside and held up a hand. "Give me a ride, Mister," he shouted, as loud as his quivering chin would permit. The pleasant-faced driver thought, "Well this is once I'll break my rule of never picking up a youngster." Putting on the brake he shouted, "Where are you going this cold morning?" "To the city," answered the child. "To the city!" cried the man. "Why you'd never get there unless the wind blew you there. Climb up here beside me, I'll take you." And he reached down a hand to help the trembling child. "Now," said the man, as he put a corner of the blanket around the boy, "What is your name?" "Tom?just Tom," he answered hastily. "Tom," said the man softly, more to himself than the child, "I wish it hadn't been that." "Why there are lots of Toms," said the child. "Yes, I know," he said. "I had a little 'Tom' of my own last Thanksgiving. I?I don't like to see anyone named 'Tom' in trouble." "I ain't cryin' 'cause I'm in trouble," said the child. "The cold just makes me seem like I'm cryin'. Anyway, Uncle Chuck said I ought to have trouble, I've made him so much." "Ought to have trouble, hey!" said the man, stopping the engine and drawing a thermos bottle from under some sacks in the bottom of the truck. "It was so cold this morning Mother made me bring this hot cocoa that we had left from breakfast. It hasn't been off the stove fifteen minutes," he said as he filled the bottle cap and gave to the child to drink. "Maybe that will warm you a little." "That's fine," said Tom when he had swallowed the last 'drop. He did not say, "I have tasted nothing before, today." Why should he, when there had been so many days like this in his short life? The man replaced the bottle, pulled the blanket up even with Tom's chin, and started the engine. 4A KIND HEART 603 "It's mighty cold," he said, "but it's good weather for me, I get better prices for my eggs and chickens." "Oh, are you a chicken-man? It must be nice to have lots of eggs and chickens. My Uncle hates rich people. Poor folks can't have high-priced things. Cold weather is hard for them to live through," said Tom thoughtfully. "You must have come from one of the farms around here; didn't you raise any chickens?' asked the man, looking down at the thin face. "I lived with my Uncle on a dry farm across the river. Seems like the farm was no good, and he couldn't take care of chickens, he said, after his sister ran off and left me on his hands." "What's your name?your last name, I mean?" "On the slip of paper she pinned on my dress she said, 'You can call him Tom Daft. If he's daft enough he'll stay with you on that deadly forsaken ranch; I won't and I'll never come back'." "Oh, your uncle is Chuck Allen. Guess I've heard of him," said the man. He drove along in silence, recalling talk he had heard through the years about the Allen family. Only yesterday someone had said that Chuck Allen was tramping to the Coast for the winter. Presently he asked, "Are you going to some relatives in the city?" "Yes, Uncle said if he was ever gone longer than two days for me to go to the city and find cousin Sarah." "Have you the address?" "No. He didn't have no address," the child said with fresh tears streaming from his blue eyes. As they passed the city and county building the clock reminded the farmer that he would be late for market. If chickens were plentiful and buyers scarce he would not get his price. In the rush of unloading and interesting buyers, the child slipped away. It was a busy day. When the chickens were all sold there were errands to do for Mother, and the truck needed some repair work. It was late when he drove back to the market to get things he had left there. The lights were on. Stores and markets shone, as they always do the evening before the great feast. Never were garlands more green, never were apples more red, or poultry more plump. Market-men were beaming as they rubbed their hands with satisfaction as customer after customer walked away with arms loaded with bundles. The chicken man shouted a cheerful "Good night" as he passed along. All he wanted now was a hot supper before he started home. He had been thinking of dollars and cents all day, now he began thinking of home, and his wife waiting alone in the big brick house, and his little Tom, for  whom he had taken home candy and a toy balloon last Thanksgiving. He had forgotten the homeless child he had brought to the city. A heavy hand was laid on his arm. "Stand back a moment," whispered a voice. He looked up and saw a large policeman watching a child at a box of apples. It was his little fellow traveler. "That's a sharp youngster," half laughed the officer, under his breath. "This thing is going on here all the time. Nothing is safe." The little blue hand was already on an apple. It faltered a moment, then grasped tightly, then dropped it. He hid his face in his hands. The chicken man stepped up to him and touched his shoulder gently. The child knew without looking up who it was; he had but one friend.: "I couldn't do it; oh, I couldn't," he sobbed, "but I'm so awful hungry," and he fell against the box.  * * * The stars were shining cold and clear. The chicken man's wife sat at the window looking out, wishing the thermometer could go up without lowering the price of eggs and chickens. "It's so cold for John riding from the city alone," she said to herself. She opened the door, hoping she could hear the truck, but the piercing wind sent her back to the blazing fire. She thought of last year when she did not sit alone. She imagined she heard the little voice though it had been hushed nearly a year. How plainly she could see the smiling face, though it had been gone so long. She hurriedly brushed away the tears as she heard the truck. "John must not see me sad," she thought, opening the door, and turning on the porch light. John came in with something wrapped in the blanket; he laid it on the big dining room table. "Don't say 'no,' Mother. Let us do something for our Tom's sake this Thanksgiving." "Are you crazy?" she said, as he uncovered the thin face. "Wait till I tell you all." When he had told his story he said earnestly, "How could I go to church tomorrow and thank God for his care of us if, with no little one to care for, I had left this child alone in the city?" "You did right, John," she said, "you always do." In everything I give thanks??I Thess. 5, 18. He is ungrateful who expresses his thanks when all witnesses have departed.?Seneca.