Pioneers—Giants in the Earth By Lois Vernon Hales
Very dear to us is the pioneer, no matter where he be or what his nationality. Most of us are children or grandchildren of our own pioneers and the bond with all pioneers is strong within us. Our life is redolent with the fineness of pioneer life. But do we really appreciate it? How can we who know so little of mind-breaking solitude, frightful homesickness, and hardship fully realize pioneer life. Books about America's pioneers will help us if we read them with receptive minds as well as receptive hearts.
Giants in the Earth, by O. E. Rolvaag, is the story of the Norwegian-American immigration. It was written in America and about America, but it comes to us in translation from the Norwegian. Rolvaag's whole aim in writing it is to show the contribution of his people to American life. He sees, and wants us to see, the human cost of empire building as well as the glamour and romance of it. He feels, and wants us to feel the grim reality of pioneering. In its fatalism and psychological turn Giants in the Earth is truly European, but it is an American Saga of the Prairie, for it is wholly concerned with America.
O. E. Rolvaag was born April 22, 1876, in Norway, just a short distance south of where the Arctic Circle cuts the coast. All of his people were fishermen. In their lives hardship, poverty, sorrow, and danger played prominent parts. On them shone the midnight sun for its brief season. Then came long periods of utter darkness hiding the gloomy, barren landscape. From this life Rolvaag broke away. In 1893, a terrible storm had destroyed many of his friends and nearly taken his life. His love for fishing killed, he set sail for America and landed in New York in 1896. In 1899 he entered school in South Dakota. Today he occupies the chair of Norwegian literature in St. Olaf College.
Per Hansa and his wife, Beret, are the outstanding characters in Giants in the Earth. Immediately upon landing in America from Norway, they began their way toward the prairies of the Dakotas. To Per Hansa the future was rosy and full of promise. Anything was better than the gloomy life he had left behind. To Beret the future was doubtful and fraught with sadness. Her people and her humble home where their three children had been born were far across the sea. Here on the prairie with its unbroken rolling expanse one felt the presence of a force hostile to man. Here there was no need of fighting for all were conquered at last. One could not be victorious here. Here people were concerned with the Earth instead of God. Here one had no time to think of God until Death's fingers were upon one and then it was too late. Here the Earth took people instead of the living God. Here men became brutes.
Per Hansa struggled early and late through many hard years. He met plague, heavy storms, tormenting hot summers, with the true grace of the born pioneer. Things prospered until the time came when the future promised returns for his years of hard toil. But Beret—for her the struggle had been too much. Her delicate mind which had groped all these years for an understanding of life had lost its way. And then one day came a minister of God into the little village. He brought to the heart of Beret a message which she recognized. In her narrow way she began to speak of it to Per Hansa. But the Prairie which had watched these would-be conquerors now for many years had decided otherwise. Per Hansa late one winter day set out across the snow-swept prairie in search of the minister. He never returned.
Giants in the Earth is the story of Per Hansa, the born pioneer, and Beret, the failure as a pioneer. Beret could not adapt herself to the new country. In her agony and homesickness she wrecked what might have been the finest of pioneer homes. She sent Per Hansa to his death and made her children unhappy. And the Prairie which had been waiting and watching, drank the blood of Christian men and was satisfied.