[Vol15 | May 1928 | Sequence: 09b | Category: Article | Title: Intellectual Responsibility of Mothers]

to school next day and be able to tell these things to his teacher and his mates, and his grades will rise.
LET CHILDREN TEACH YOU
Just here many mothers make a mistake. They suppose that in order to help their children, they must teach the children's lesson to them. But the very best way to help them is to get them to teach their lessons to you. If Johnny is stumped on an arithmetic problem, instead of working it to show him how, ask him questions about it, and about simpler ones of the same sort. Make him tell you the rules by which

it is worked. Nine times out of ten he will find his own mistake and triumphantly get the right answer for himself. In other words, he who teaches, learns faster than he who listens. Let your child learn by teaching you.
Encourage him; not with a scolding when he has failed, but with praise when he has succeeded. Don't be afraid of making him conceited. His mates and life itself will take conceit out of him if he gets too much. And the person who has self-esteem will have self-confidence to try for greater things. The person who thinks well of himself will be more successful than the one who is too humble to try. Be honest as possible. Don't praise him for something that is not good, nor boast about him to others, but children hunger for a word of praise, and long for appreciation, often thinking they would like to die just to hear people say nice things at their funeral. Praise overcomes stubbornness or laziness and is the great stimulant to high endeavor. Don't be afraid to praise your children when they have done something worth while; they will pay you by deserving more praise.
DON'T CRITICIZE THE TEACHER
And here is a don't. Please don't place before your child a stumbling block by criticizing his teacher. Go to the teacher and get her side of the story. Children often misunderstand what teacher says; sometimes they only half hear, or forget, or wrongly interpret things. Suppose you try a little experiment. Go to a meeting and write down word for word about three sentences of a speaker who impresses you. Then after meeting ask a friend just what it was he said about that certain subject. Compare the answer with your written record. Ask another friend, and still another. You will be amazed at the result. Within ten minutes after he spoke I have heard a speaker quoted as having said the exact opposite of what he actually did say. One partly hears, another interprets what he hears in the light of his own experience, and another seems to have heard backward. If grown-ups can so misunderstand a sermon what of a child? He probably tells you exactly what he understands. Even if you and the teacher should not be able to reach an understanding, don't make things worse for your child by letting him find it out. If you criticize the teacher, he cannot teach against prejudice and distrust.
When your daughter reaches adolescence she should be taught certain great truths of life. If you don't know just how, find in your community a trained nurse, an experienced teacher or a wise mother, who knows more than you. Go