STAKE PRESIDENTS OF SALT LAKE COUNTY 1. Hazel Greenwood, Liberty; 2. Luacine S. Clark, Ensign; 3. Lettie T. Cannon, Pioneer; 4. Mary J. B. Pixton, West Jordan; 5. Mary Isabelle Horne, 1st Stake President; 6. Elizabeth C. Williams, Salt Lake; 7. Vera P. Walquist, Cottonwood; 8. Emmaretta G. Brown, Granite; 9. Elfleda L. Jensen, East Jordan; 10. Wanitage B. Daynes, Grant; 11. Emma S. Jacobs, Semi-Centennial Review of the Relief Societies of Salt Lake County By Lettte T. Cannon One of the most inspiring and magnificent performances ever presented to the people of Salt Lake was the Semi-Centennial Review "Onward" given in the Tabernacle March 16, 1928. The combined Relief Societies of Salt Lake county and about six hundred Relief Society women took part. "Onward," an epic of progress,—a symbolic picturization in song and story—commemorates the organization of the first Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, its development and growth into the present ten stakes: Salt Lake, Granite, Ensign, Liberty, Pioneer, Cottonwood, Grant, Oquirrh, East Jordan and West Jordan. It is from the pen of Claire Stewart Boyer, a writer of promise, whose poems will be studied in the Literary department this year. "Onward" is divided into three parts: I, Our Heritage; II, Our Growth; III, Our Presidents. Part I, is a picturization of our past general presidents who were characterized by the following women: Emma Smith by Etta F. Toronto; Eliza R. Snow by Nettie M. McAllister; Zina D. H. Young by Zina Y. Card; Bathsheba Smith by Donnetta S. Kessler; Emmeline B. Wells by Ameda S. Young. A fitting tribute was paid to each of these presidents who worked so earnestly and unselfishly for the great Relief Society cause, and who left their work and example as our heritage. Part II, symbolizes the growth of the; Relief Society in Salt Lake county form the first stake organization in 1877 with Mary Isabelle Horne as president, up to the present ten stakes. The Mother Stake Nina O. Edwards represented the Mother Stake, Salt Lake, "For it was given to thee to be a Mother Stake, A Relief Society Mother Stake to the daughters of Zion, In 1877 thou stepp'st forth, thine arms extended; Thou gaz'st at the mountains in the East, and breathed in courage, 
 Thou gaz'st at the lake in the West, and thy heart was wrapped in peace; Then, prayerfully, thou sett'st thyself to the tasks before thee, As became a Woman of Purpose. With thy growth in the valley of the mountains, Came a new radiance to thy countenance, Came a new joy to thy soul, Thou felt'st the throbbings of the hearts of the future, And with the guidance of thine instinct, Thou keep'st thy body strong and clean and refreshed, Thy mind advancing, and thy spirit Tuned to the great eternal rhythm." And in Fulfillment came the other stakes represented by Irene Thoresen as Grant; Inez R. Preece, Pioneer; Emily Podmore, Cottonwood; Ida Whipple, Oquirrh; Gertrude Pierson, East Jordan; Ethel J. McMullen, West Jordan; Elnora Ward, Liberty; Ruby E. Campbell, Ensign; and Esther C. Sandberg, Granite. 'And each in turn, upon the foundation thou hadst given them, Formed a glorious stake, Inspiring the daughters of Zion To greater works. And to each stake has come a marvelous strength, For faith and love have entered her organization, And upheld her in all things, And therefore, she was blessed." The Daughter Stakes In the Development Mable Fisher and Lillian Schwendiman represent Grant Stake; Margaret C. Clayton and Ruth E. Cutler, Pioneer; Beatrice Diamond and Victoria Anderson, Oquirrh; Elizabeth B. Poulton and Rachel M. Seare, Salt Lake; Emma Flowers and Annie Bowden, Cottonwood; Mary Creer and Lola Copenhaver, Liberty; Alma R. LaFont and Carol B. Richards, Granite; Diana Kolsolake and Cora G. Snow, Ensign; Fern Hendrickson and Mina Mickelson, East Jordan; Alice J. Cooper and Edith Dahl, West Jordan. "And the nine daughter stakes have seen the vision Their mother saw before them; That God had made all things, and made them well, ~ That God loved all things, and had placed that love In the hearts of his children; That God had a purpose noble and divine in this, His vineyard, And that to them He had given a knowledge of that purpose And a share of His work He had put into their hands for completion— ) REVIEW OF THE RELIEF SOCIETIES ZS That Christ's Kingdom might be built upon the earth." These women, gowned in gold costumes with white wigs, made a most impressive sight. Part III, presented our sixth and present General President, Clarissa S. Williams, dressed in white. "Most gracious leader of these latter days, Thine eyes have seen the glory of His plan, Thy heart has leapt with joy in its response Since in His vineyard, this thy trust began; Thou hast been blest with vision for our needs, Thou hast been crowned with wisdom in thy ways, With purpose thou hast filled our thousand hearts, With happiness hast filled our thousand days." Sister Williams was joined by the ten stake presidents, Emmaretta G. Brown, Granite; Elizabeth C. Williams, Salt Lake; Luacine S. Clark, Ensign; Lettie T. Cannon, Pioneer; Hazel Greenwood, Liberty; Winifred B. Daynes, Grant; Emma S. Jacobs, Oquirrh; Elfleda L. Jensen, East Jordan; Mary J. B. Pixton, West Jordan; and Vera P. Walquist, Cottonwood, all dressed in white with jeweled, gold-colored girdles. "Under the care of ten wise presidents, The stakes that nestle in the valleys old Have reached a fair and monumental strength, A joy to contemplate and to behold." A Hundred Wards Then from the back of the Tabernacle, down either aisle came the present ward presidents gowned in white. "A hundred wards are mothered and matured Within the stakes, by women diligent, Who give their time and strength and faith and love To serve them worthily as Presidents." And then came the "flagstones of the past," the past stake and ward presidents, the former gowned in lavender, the latter in white. "For faithful leaders ever light the way For truth's expansion, and the world will bless These women who have made the Gospel sure, These loyal devotees of righteousness." It was a stirring sight to see these women, many of them three-score years and ten, who have labored so faithfully and earnestly, and who have given of their time, their love and 
 their strength to the Relief Society cause. Many eyes were filled with tears, and all were touched by the wonderful spectacle before them. And as Mrs. Stewart read the Finale all hearts joined with her in saying, The Work Goes On "Thus in these latter days The work goes on. Thousands of minds directed every day, Thousands of hearts are purified anew, Thousands of minds are moulded by the plan The past in all its glory could not dream Of Zion fairer than she is today; Of Zion's women singing on a hill; Of Zion's women working with a will To bring Salvation to a hungry world. Then upward, upward and onward Their aim will ever be, With praises to the God of Earth And of Eternity." The poem was beautifully read by Mrs. Grace Nixon Stewart, whose voice carried to the farthermost part of the Tabernacle, inspiring all with the grandeur and beauty of Relief Society work as depicted. Much credit is due Mrs. Irma Felt Bitner for her splendid work in directing the Review; she was ably assisted by Annie C. Kimball, Inez Witbeck and Erma Roland. Mrs. Ida Horne White, known to Relief Society workers as the author of the music to "The Mothers' Plea," composed the music for the "Pledge," and with Mrs. Agnes M. Bolto, she had charge of the chorus of one hundred women whose inspiring singing of Mendelssohn's "Lift Thine Eyes" and Mrs. White's "With Heavenly Inspiration" and the "Pledge" song, added greatly to the enjoyment of the performance. Tracy Y. Cannon, Tabernacle organist, provided artistic accompaniments on the great organ. Mrs. Anna G. Ipson, accompanist for rehearsals, was also pianist for the Review. An instrumental trio composed of Aurelia Shimer, Ireta Roylance, and Mary Mortimer, did beautiful work in accompanying the Reader in Part I and in rendering a selection between Parts I and II. Mrs. Lillian G. Shurtliff had charge of the costumes. The invocation and the benediction were offered by Louise Y. Robison and Jennie B. Knight of the presidency of the General Board of the Relief Society. The Review Committee consisted of the Presidents and Board members of the ten stakes, with Emmaretta G. Brown, General Chairman.
Mother By Amy