Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in June) Fast Day OBSERVANCE 1. The Grea: Purpose. Like every other provision of the gospel the Fast Day has behind it the happiness of the human family. 2. The Self Disciplinary Value of Fast Day Observance. The joy of discovery is said to be the greatest of all in the intellectual field. In the presence of new truth the soul shouts, "I have found it,' to the forgetfulness of all else, and flies forth in an ecstasy that caused the Greek philosopher to rush from his bathroom into the street shouting, "Eureka! Eureka!" But there is a happiness second to none that comes from a consciousness of self-control. The feeling of self-mastery is a joy supreme. In "the temptation" the attack of the evil one was ill-timed. It was at an hour of self victory with the Great Exemplar, the hour of strongest resistance. It was at the close of a period of abstinence; and the victories that followed, culminating in the authoritative exclamation, "Get thee behind me, Satan," are object lessons to us. All, attesting the value of a training in self-discipline through fasting. Consistent abstinence in fasting gives the whole soul an acquaintance with the joy of self-conquest in that particular and makes more certain self-discipline in other directions. Youths trained in Fast Day observance will rarely, if ever, be breakers of the Word of Wisdom, and the dangers of their falling from the pathway of purity will be much less than it would be without such training. Control over the lesser appetites is prophetic of control over the stronger impulses. Fast Day Observance Develops Heroism. Heroism is one of the highest sources of joy. Heroes are made by resistance as well _as by advancement. It often takes more courage to stand still than to go on; more strength to wait, than to work, and more fidelity to refrain than to act. The development of heroism in one line helps the development in aff lines. 
 The joy of Fast Day observance depends on the attitude of the observer. If the observance is a matter of mere compliance with regulation the results so far as the individual is concerned will be limited to the physical and social benefits. But if the attitude is one of heroism the results include the enjoyment of the observance and the training in self-discipline. To the one possessed of heroism, duty, be it ever so difficult, becomes pleasure, and this is especially so in youth. Dereliction in Fast Day observance generally has a background of self-humoring' which encourages along that fatal line of least resistance where ease absorbs our energy, and ends in the imbecility of the will. The Social Side of Fast Day Observance. Society is, that men may help one another. Fast Day observance is never more than half complete unless it goes over into giving; it requires a Golden Rule giving; a giving that we would not object to having put in print; a giving that would not shock us if we saw it in our dreams. Regardless of religion the custom of fasting that others may be fed appeals to the call of the better human self. The sharing sentiment marks the man; its stones is a characteristic of the animal. There is no greatness in the land of Greed. Small souls only seek refuge there. The Spiritual Side of Fast Day Observance. We pray, "Lord, bless the poor and needy." To the Latter-day Saints, Fast Day observance is linked with their weekly covenants with the Lord. The official prayers of the Sacrament ordinance make the spiritual obligations plain. How can we be willing to "keep his commandments" and be unwilling to observe the Fast Day? How can we witness that we "remember him" if we forget the Lord's poor? One's religion may be measured by the standard found in fames 1:27. The Lord has provided through Fast Day observance that all may visit the needy by their gifts. The Fast offering is a most welcome visitor and it goes on its errand as a gift from God because it passes through "the Lord's storehouse." The Fast Offering observer is acting out the closing part of the prayer: 'Thine is the honor, the power, and the glory." "He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord," and if the giving is the result of the love of God and a love of one's fellowmen the act is an obedience to the two great commandments. (See Mark 12:30-31.) The Fast Day giver is more than an "Abou Ben Adhem." One's giving, to be of spiritual value, must be of a type that will carry over onto the "books" where Divine credit is given. A credit of which one would not be ashamed as a candidate for salvation and exaltation. See Rev. 20:12. To the joys of self-mastery, heroism and philanthropy may be added the joy of knowing oneself to be in harmony with the Lord's plan, a happiness that comes only through acquiescence to his will, a gladsome heeding of his counsels and a willing obedience to his commands. The following instructions of President Joseph F. Smith on Fast Day observance are deserving of the most careful consideration: "Tt is, therefore, incumbent upon every Latter-day Saint to give to his bishop, on Fast Day, the food that he or his family would consume for the day, that it may be given to the poor for their benefit and blessing; or, in lieu of the food, that its equivalent amount, or if the person is wealthy a liberal donation in money be so reserved and dedicated to the poor. "Now, while the law requires the Saints in all the world to fast from 'even to even' and to abstain both from food and drink, it can easily be seen from the scriptures and especially from the words of Jesus, that it is more important to obtain the true spirit of love for God and man, 'purity of heart and simplicity of intention,' than it is 'to carry out the cold letter of the law. The Lord has instituted the fast on a reasonable and intelligent basis, and none of his works are vain or unwise. His law is perfect in this as in other things. Hence, those who can are required to comply thereto; it is a duty from which they cannot escape; but let it be remembered that the observance of the Fast Day by abstaining twenty-four hours from food and drink is not an absolute rule, it is no iron-clad law to us, but it is left with the people as a matter of conscience, to exercise wisdom and discretion. Many are subject to weakness, others are delicate in health, anid others have nursing babies; of stich is was not required to fast; neither should parents compel their little children to fast. I have known children to cry for something to eat on Fast Day. In such cases, going without food will do them no good. Instead, they dread the day to come, and in place of hailing it, dislike it; while the compulsion engenders a spirit of rebellion in them, rather than a love for the Lord, and their fellows. Better to teach them the principle, and let them observe it when they are old enough to choose intelligently, than to so compel them. "But those should fast who can, and all classes among us should be taught to save the meals which they would eat, or their 
 equivalent, for the poor. None are exempt from, this; it is required of the Saints, old and young, in every part of the Church. It is no excuse that in some places there are no poor. In such cases the Fast donation should' be forwarded to the proper authorities for transmission to such stakes of Zion as may stand in need. "So shall we gain favor in the sight of God, and learn the acceptable fast before him."—Gospel Doctrine, pp. 306-7. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What is the ultimate aim of all gospel requirements? 2. Discuss the statement, "The consciousness of self-mastery is a joy supreme.". In what way did the Savior teach the value of self-discipline? 4 How does Fast Day observance develop self-discipline? 5. How may Fast Day observance be made tu deverop heroism? 6. Discuss heroism as an essential part of the plan of salvation.; 7. What is "Golden Rule giving"? Illustrate. 8. How will Fast Day observance insure in favor of temperance and chastity? 9. Give scriptural proof that there are at least three books out of which we shall be judged. ~ 10. Compare Rev. 20:12, with Doc. & Cov. 1:10. 11. Discuss the propriety of the mother's planning for some Fast Day conversation in the homes on Fast Day eve. 12. Discuss the instruction of President Smith on Fast Day observance. (a) Their definiteness. (b) Their consistency. 13. Give four definite reasons for Fast Day observances.. |