FINDING FAULT WITH OLD FOLKS.

	I feel constrained to write on this subject,
incidents having come under my observa-
tion which impressed me with a sense of
the injustice of such a practice. Long-
established habits! what power and influ-
ence they have over aged persons. And
yet many young people imagine that by
criticism, dictation, and a little ridicule
about "odd ways," they can bring old peo-
ple on a plane with themselves, and get
them to adopt their habits, which are so
much "higher toned" then the old prosy
ways of fifty years ago. People as they
grow old grow more sensitive; the burdens
of life weigh heavily upon their worn spir-
its, and they yearn for tenderness and love
from the young and strong, whom they
have, perhaps, borne about in their arms in
childhood, and soothed with loving words,
and now they need the same in return.
	I know some old persons who at times
are really embarrassed and intimidated by
the criticisms of their grown children, who
in presence of their would-be smart asso-
ciates, ridicule their parent's "old-fashioned
ways." The wise man says, "rise up before
the aged, and honor grey hairs." I have
always been thankful to my mother for
teaching me correct habits, and especially
for instructing me to honor and respect the
aged, to do all in my power to bless and
comfort them. I remember in my youth-
ful days I went far away from my mother
to attend school in New Hampshire. I
boarded with a lady milliner, who had a
kind heart, and she had an aged mother,
who all her life had known affliction, in con-
sequence of having a cruel husband. The
daughter sometimes spoke unguardedly to
her mother; then oh, how she would re-
proach herself, on a moment's reflection!
She adored her mother. There was an
aged man in the neighborhood, whom we
called "Father Doolittle;" he was a sorrow-
ful man. He was attracted to me because
I was a religious girl. I listened to his
tale of woe, which he would relate with
tears streaming from his eyes. There was
at one time in Massachusetts a religious
sect organized, called "New Lights; " they
believed in having spiritual husbands and
wives. His wife became enamored with
her spiritual teacher, forsook her husband
and nine children, left home in the absence
of her husband and eldest daughter, and

[Column 2]
started with her lover for the State of New
York. Oh! it was a sad story. I was a
very young girl, but withal religious; I
thought of my mother's teachings. I was
intent on pouring the balm of consolation
into the wounded spirit of the poor old
man. His eldest daughter had helped to
raise the family. The good man loved the
Bible and hymnbook. He would walk a
mile every week to get me to read the Bi-
ble and sing hymns with him; his voice
was broken, but I would not for the world
have laughed at his singing. He lived
with his children, and good and loving
children they were, and they loved and
praised me for trying to soothe the sorrows
of their poor father, and because I pitied
the lonely man, who all his life mourned
for his fallen wife.
	There is a sequel to the story, which I
will write another time. Permit me to add
a word of counsel to my young readers:
"Speak gently to the aged;" soothe their
sorrows all you possibly can; then shall
you be comforted when your eyes grow
dim and your limbs tremble with age.
Peace will flow to your hearts when you
remember how you showed mercy to some
sorrowing soul, and so it shall be done unto
you. "Speak gently to the aged.'
						L. B. PRATT.
	BEAVER, Sept. 5, 1879.


