"LEADING CAPTIVE SILLY WOMEN."

	We find in the "Watchman" of Aug. 22, a
religious paper ably edited and conducted in
the city of Boston, articles on Mormonism
which contain some very ridiculous paragraphs.
The writer, among other things, says, "Stand-
ing, one of a multitude of Mormon preachers
who have for more than a generation gone up
and down the land 'leading captive silly wo-
men,' has been murdered in Georgia, and the
popular verdict is he deserved it."

"What if the popular breath should damn the sun
In his meridian glory?—dost thou think
His beams would fall less brightly?"

	We cannot help thinking that it is very little
for a religious paper, edited by a Christian
minister professing to be a follower of Jesus,
thus to condemn a young man, a mere boy in
years, because, forsooth, popular opinion was
against him.
	We knew Elder Joseph Standing personally,
and we can but blush for this Divine who thus
bemeans himself in falsely speaking of this hon-
est, virtuous, industrious youth. Even though
he believed him deluded and preaching erro-
neous doctrine, let his life, his morals and his
conduct speak for him, and they are blameless;
he was an innocent, inoffensive, modest young
man. No breath of wrong-doing was ever
uttered against him. He has sealed his testi-
mony with his blood, and how cruel to call up
his name in connection with silly women.
He has a father, mother, brothers and sisters
and many dear friends who mourn his loss, and
it is adding insult to injury to speak of him as
this Christian minister has done.
	The writer says: "The horrible system (Mor-
monism) had its origin here, but its growth is
not from American material. The poorer
classes of England and Wales contribute to it
more largely than any other." We beg to
differ with him, knowing more than he does
of the proportion of American people here.
	After some more false reasoning on this sub-
ject he goes on to say, "Thus it happens that
Mormonism, as it exists to-day, is chiefly a
British product. But almost all the nations of
Europe, and some in other parts of the world,
minister more or less to its rapidly growing
power. But polygamy is unlawful. All these
foreign Mormons, though they have thought
little about it, have assented to it." And mnch
more in the same strain. Evidently this wri-
ter believes not only in people being con
demned without a hearing, but in his estima-
tion they are actually criminals because they
accept the doctrine that teaches them "faith,
repentance and baptism." They are not con-
demned for any wrong they have actually com-
mitted, but for their intentions, and really be-
fore they have any POSITIVE intentions. This,

[Column 2]
then, is the land of boasted religious liberty!
This is the result of the sacrifices and hard-
ships endured by our Pilgrim fathers and Pil-
grim mothers, to establish the freedom of con-
science!
	Furthermore, the writer says, "The men, if
they become rich enough, will establish
harems. The women, in order to hold land
and vote, will swear that they are married, and
in order to avoid the penalties of the law will
call themselves by their maiden names."
These are the silly women he refers to; now,
it really seems to us, and we must acknowledge
we are acquainted with the facts concerning
Mormon women, that he lacks information in
regard to them and their affairs.
	There is no such place as a harem in Utah;
in Utah there are homes, such as they have in
New England, and there are plenty of Yankee
women—you find them in every settlement—
and the elements of New England character
abound in their children. Mormon women
are not ignorant, nor deluded, nor degraded,
they are intelligent; and if they do vote and
hold land in their own right, who is going to
hinder it? Did anybody else earn it? or have
any of those who feel so badly about it helped
in any way to subdue this desert land? If not,
let them hold their peace. If these "poor,
silly women" know enough to vote, and hold
land, it is certain they have surpassed those
who sit idly down and become a dead weight
in the community; it proves that they are not
so very, very silly. Usually women who com-
pose harems are idle creatures, who depend en-
tirely upon some man who feeds and clothes
them; now, can the editor of the "Watch-
man" find a community of women as self-sus-
taining and generally intelligent on all sub-
jects pertaining to practical life and its duties
as Mormon women, taking the American and
foreign women "en masse?" We are really
sorry he is not better posted about Mormon
women.
	There is proof here of the education the bal-
lot affords; no person who will travel through
Utah, with their eyes open, can fail to see how
intelligent women become who have had the
practical education the ballot gives. We ven-
ture to say there are more women here, accord-
ing to the population, who have read the Con-
stitution of the United States understandingly
than in any other place. The organizations of
women holding regular meetings in every part
of this Territory, even in the most remote dis-
tricts, has given to those in all conditions, and
of all classes, opportunities of becoming ac-
quainted with the laws and government of the
country, and also educated them in many
things which pertain to "life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness," that married women
among the laboring classes do not enjoy in so
large a degree in America, or England.
	We respectfully ask that Mormon women be
allowed to stand upon their own merits, and
not what report says, and that they be permit-
ted to speak in their own defense. Hope says:

"The flying rumors gathered as they roll'd;
Scarce anything was sooner heard than told,
And all who told it added something new,
And all who heard it made enlargement too;
In every ear it spread, on every tongue it grew."

	We are informed, through newspapers and
other sources, there a great many women, in
the East who are slaves to the lusts of men;
who are seduced and abandoned, who,
driven frantic, destroy their offspring with im-
punity. Would it not be well for Christian
ministers to use their efforts and their elo-
quence in pulpit, and through the press, to
suppress these evils, to bring these wicked men
to judgment who "lead captive these silly wo-

[Column 3]
men." O how easy to see the mote in anoth-
er's eye, but neglect the beam in their own!
If these poor and unfortunate young women
who are the prey of wicked and designing
men had been taught to be self-sustaining, and
to protect themselves, and had the privilege of
the ballot, such men would be exposed and
punished, sometimes at least. Only to-day
we read in the "Woman's Journal," published
in Boston, of a man who, for beating his wife
repeatedly (who had supported him and the
children for six years) was sent up for one
month. There will be a different course pur-
sued in Massachusetts when women have the
ballot in their hands; and please excuse us, but
they are going to have it—then many of the
evils that exist there, and in other large cities
now, will be somewhat remedied.
	When we were in Washington last winter
we heard enough of the evils that exist there
in the Capital of the nation, from ladies who
reside in that city, to convince us that wicked-
ness flourishes there. Yet with these things
under their very eyes, they condemn the Mor-
mons for making women honorable wives and
mothers. O Consistency, thou art indeed a
rare jewel!
	The last clause of one of the articles on Mor-
monism is, "If the administration shall com-
bine with its efforts to shut out foreign Mor-
mons, a vigorous enforcement of the laws
against polygamy will cripple, though it will
not destroy, the power of a people from whom
we have yet, if we do not mistake, much to
dread."
	What is it the writer dreads? There must be
some power in Mormonism, when a mere
handful of "ignorant" people are a dread and a
terror to the United States. To us it is terri-
ble to hear them talk of taking measures to
wipe out the twin-relic, * . We have seen
the efforts made to destroy the Mormons in
Nauvoo; we know the suffering, the hardship,
the struggles with adversity, the cold, the
hunger, the want. We have seen our own
loved ones die by the way, under the banner of
American freedom, and it makes our New
England blood boil when such things are al-
luded to, but withal, we know God rules and
they can go so far and no farther.
				[handwritten] E. B. Wells


