HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Green Tomatoe Sauce.—Slice two gallons of
green tomatoes and twelve or fourteen good-sized
onions, two quarts of vinegar, one pound of sugar,
two tablespoonfuls of salt, two of ground mustard,
two of black pepper, one tablespoon of allspice
and one of cloves. Mix all and stew until tender,
stirring often lest they should scorch. Put up in
small glass jars. This is very nice for almost
every kind of meat or fish.

	Spiced Tomatoes.—Two pounds of nice ripe
tomatoes, one pound of brown sugar, one-half
pint of good cider vinegar, one dozen cloves and
two dozen grains of allspice. Put these ingredi-
ents into a preserving kettle and stew them over
a slow fire. When they have been sufficinetly
long to cook the tomatoes tolerably well take
them up and place them on a dish to cool, but con-
tinue boiling the syrup slowly. When the toma-
toes become cool put them back into the syrup
and boil them until they are of a dark red color,
then take them out again, put them on a dish to
cool and continue boiling until it is as thick as
molasses. When the tomatoes and syrup are
both cool put them in jars and tightly seal.

	New Mode of Preparing Beefsteak.—Procure a
nice round steak: spread over it a dressing made
of one quart of bread crumbs soaked in boiling
water, and seasoned with butter, salt, pepper and
sage to taste. Then make the steak, spread with
this dressing, into a roll, after the manner of roll
jelly-cake. Tie it round and round with cord to
keep it together. Place it in a dripping pan with
a little water, and bake in a moderate oven. Dip
the water over the steak with a large spoon sever-
al times during the process of baking. After
taking from the oven, remove the cord and slice
the roll for the table. It is very nice, either
warm or cold.


WISDOM is better than riches.  Wisdom
guards  thee, but thou  must  guard  thy
riches.  Riches diminish in the using, but
wisdom increases in the use of it. - Arabic
Proverb.

	BE not diverted from  your  duty by any
idle reflections the silly  world  may  make
upon you for their censures are not in your
power, and consequently should not be any
part of your concern. - Epictetus.


MRS. THANKFUL Taylor, of Washing-
ton, now seventy years old, has proven what
energy and perseverance may accomplish
under difficult circumstances.  When young
she had a great yearning for knowledge, and
as she was poor and could not easily obtain
the advantages of a liberal education; she
worked and bought her own books, and
pursued her studies as she stood at the spin-
ning wheel.  In  this  way  she  became  a
thorough Greek, Latin and English scholar,
and also learned ecclesiastical and profane
history, medicine, science and general lit-
erature.


THE French savant Dr. Bertillon has
given the result of his study of the mortali-
ty statistics of every country of Europe.
He comes to the conclusion that marriage
is conducive to health, long life, and moral-
ity, that it is, so to speak, a limited insur-
ance against disease, crime, and suicide.
He says that a bachelor of twenty-five has
not a better prospect of life than a married
man of forty-five; that among widowers of
from twenty-five to thirty the rate of moral-
ity is as great as among married men of
from fifty-five to sixty. Taking the French
bills of mortality, he shows that while the
annual death rate among married men be-
tween twenty and twenty-five years of
age is rather under 10 per 1,000, bachelors
of that age die at the rate of 16, and wid-
owers at the rate of 19, per 1,000. These
figures apply to the whole of France, while
taking Paris, it appears that the rate
for men of between twenty and twenty-five
years of age is 15.7 per 1,000 for married
men, 27 per 1,000 for bachelors, and 32 per
1,000 for widowers. With advanced life
the difference goes on increasing-


