HOME AFFAIRS.

	SISTERS M. P. HORNE, Elizabeth Howard
and E. S. Taylor, of this city, attended the
Quarterly Conference of Relief Societies, Y.
L. M. I. and Primary Associations of Tooele
Stake, held on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 13
and 14, in Tooele City, Mrs. M. A. Hunter pre-
siding. Further notice of the meetings will
appear in our next issue.

	THE QUARTERLY Conference of the Relief
Societies of Salt Lake Stake will be held in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms Friday and Sat-
urday, the 26th and 27th of the present month.
The Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. will also hold
their Conference at the same place on the sec-
ond day. Secretaries should prepare and for-
ward their reports in good time. All interested
in the labors of the sisters through these or-
ganizations are cordially invited to attend.

	SOME OF the Latter-day Saints have recently
been cruelly beaten and mal-treated in North
Carolina. In this free Republic, where reli-
gious liberty is the boast of the nation. The
Omaha "Bee" says, "If such outrages can be
perpetrated with impunity, because Mormon-
ism is odious in the eyes of the people who be-
lieve its founders to be impostors, how long
will it be before the same spirit of intolerance
and brutal hate will manifest itself against


[Column 1]
other creeds and those who subscribe to no
creed." It is high time that attention should 
be given to this subject, for although some peo-
ple may think Mormons are not made of the 
same material other people are, because they
have suffered and been silent, they may allow
persecution to spread in the land until they
fall under the curse of the Almighty, who has
promised to avenge the wrongs of the innocent
and oppressed:

	THE TERRITORIAL FAIR—On the first day of 
October next the Fair will open at the City
Market Corner, occupying the same grounds
that were used last year. A plowing match
will take place Sept. 30, commencing at 9
o'clock a. m. and 1 o'clock p. m, Considerable
has been said to the ladies of Utah through
the daily publications and the columns of our
woman's paper, to stimulate and encourage
them to make an exertion to furnish such
specimens of work, or curiosities, as will make
the Ladies' Department a credit to the indus-
try, taste and elegance of the women of this
Territory. Such premiums have been offered
as suit the occasion admirably, and we hope
and trust that all will feel public-spirited
enough to manifest their interest in a practical
manner, by lending their material aid and
personal influence to make the Fair a repre-
sentative one indeed in the matter of ladies'
work.

	"SONGS OF THE HEART," a book of poems
by Mrs. Hannah Tapfield King, is before us.
It is a neat little volume of original poetry,
pretty enough to lie on the table in any lady's
parlor, and would certainly be a pleasant com-
panion in a lonely hour, for it contains poems
upon the subjects which lie near to all hearts,
suitable for old or young; many of them are
full of pathos and melody, and others are sug-
gestive and true to life. The book in itself is
deserving of patronage, and we trust it will
find ready sale. Our yonng people should cul-
tivate a taste for poetry, it always has a gentle
and refining influence. Mrs. King is a pleasing
writer, and this little book is not wanting in
all those womanly sentiments that will make
it peculiarly attractive to the sisters. It also
reveals something of the author's life-history,
speaking as it does from the inner fountains of
her woman's heart. The book is for sale at
this office, and at Mrs. King's residence in the
17th Ward, Salt Lake City. Price, 5[-] cts.

	KNOWING AND realizing deeply the great
benefit the WOMAN'S EXPONENT has been to 
the women of this Church, we would suggest
to its patrons, and the sisters everywhere, that
they use their influence to have it better sus-
tained. Like all true and tried friends who
wear a homely garb, it often gets neglected,
but we trust not quite forgotten. Certainly it 
does not receive the attention it deserves from
those who should be zealous in every good
word and work. Sisters, remember this little 
paper represents your interests and sentiments
abroad. The Elders find it very beneficial to
them in their missionary work, for one of the 
first questions that come up is the woman
question; indeed, it is a very popular one now
throughout the world. It would be impossible
to carry on the home work in Societies that is
now executed without the EPPONENT as a 
medium of communication. It has also been
an educator on many subjects, and the sisters
everywhere are invited and entreated to write
and contribute to its columns, and in this way
develop whatever literary talent they may
possess. We now urge our agents and the la-
dies throughout the Territory, especially Presi-
dents and officers of Relief Societies and Young

[Column 2]
Ladies' Associations to aid us by procuring sub-
scribers, or getting up clubs, and help to make
this old friend as popular and entertaining
as any new one that may be brought forward.
If there are sisters not able to take the paper
alone, by two or more paying a small sum
they can take it together. President Young's
suggestion to us was, "Tell the sisters to take
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, preserve the num-
bers and have them bound, they will combine
a portion of Church History." They certainly
will of the work of women. Women complain,
in many instances, that they have labored
diligently in this kingdom, and yet it is scarcely
known; well, through the EXPONENT their la-
bors may be recorded and their names handed
down with honor to future generations. Will
those whose subscriptions are due please settle
as soon as they can make it convenient.
	We think it is extensively known that paper
rags are as good as cash in payment for the 
