EDITOR EXPONENT:

		SAN FRANCISCO, August 10th, 1879,

	The last number of the EXPONENT is be-
fore me and allow me to say I think it
grows more entertaining. I take great in-
terest in every thing which tends to elevate
women, and certainly your paper does, for
it offers an opportunity to all to contribute
their mite and in so doing, they unfold
their minds and lo! in some are gems of
thought and but for this avenue these
bright thoughts would never have been
developed.
	I think there never was a time just like
the present one; both politically and finan-
cially, we are on the eve of another elec-
tion and business is at a complete standstill,
waiting until the terrible ordeal is passed.
	Kearney, the wild communist is doing
his best to create dismay, some think he
has lost his power but we can safely say he
has held great sway with the working
classes.
	The Fair has opened, but is not attended
quite as numerously as hertofore. If you
visit one you have seen them for years,
they vary very little; why it is called a
Fair is a query with me, for it seems to be
all advertising. The building is of redwood
and is very large, it is entirely devoid of
architectural ornament and has neve rseen
paint; it is decidedly rustic in the interior;
the decorations are mostly flags and the
spaces alloted to the different exhibitors
are completely filled. There is very little
fancy work displayed, mostly machinery.
There are three fine fountains and they al-
ternate the music to help wile away the
time. It is the fashion to go to the Fair
dressed in your best and see and be seen,
and the flirting is terrible; items on this
subject are given to the public through the
Fair Press, a paper published in the build-
ing.
	All San Fransiscans that can are visiting at
some of the many pleasant summer resorts
and really the city has quite a gloomy as-
pect. The trade winds are doing much
good if they are disagreeable, for the city
was never healthier; it is not owing to the
board of health though for the sewers are
in a terrible condition aud the Chinese
quarters cannot be described, but they are
horrible, and right in the heart of the city;
but we have been blessed. with this cool sea
breeze and we have so far escaped from
disease, although we have a ship lying in
quarantine with yellow fever. Physicians
say that it cannot incubate here owing to
the cool air, but in the interior it would find
ample field, for there it is very hot and the
ground is very marshy. This ship has had
a terrible time and has been one year reach-
ing this port; she left New York and lost
one crew and part of another. The Captain
his wife and daughter were all prostrated
with this dreadful disease, the wife died
and the Captian became helpless, the
daughter, convalesced and took charge of
the vessel; she took soundings and guided
the ship safe into this port. She is but 21
years old and is one of the greatest heroines
of the present age, as the ship must have
been lost but for her.
	I see by the papers you are having more
trouble in Salt Lake. What effect do you
think the letters sent to foreign nations re-

[Column 2]
garding Mormon emigration can have? It
was quite a surprise to me, but what is to be,
will be, fate will have it so.
		Yours respectfully,
