CORRESPONDENCE.
SAN FRANCISCO, CAL, July 8, 1879
CONCLUDED
	This time we take street car on Mission
St. opposite the far-famed  "Woodward's
Gardens," thence making our way by trans-
fer to "Lone Mountain;" at this point leav-
ing car we step into an omnibus for a ride
over the sand-hills to this daily and favor-
ite resort of visitors from far and near.  On
our way out and at the landing (for let me
remind you this is the first trip) every
pulsation of body and being seemed con-
centrating their forces to run riot with
nerve, heart and brain.  Thought went
back with the rapidity of lightning into
the far-off days of school life, when we
pondered and scanned our lessons o'er,
seated upon hard benches in out New Eng-
land village school room. Geography, be
it remembered, was a favorite study, and
gave but very meagre account of countries
since opened up and developed, but what
they lacked in information was partly made
up in dreamy speculation, and of this part
of the world we learned about as much as
of the interior of Africa.  Yet we had our 
dreams and desires to travel, and they were
oft expressed too, of one day seeing lands
and waters that in those days appeared
about as improbable or impossible as a trip
to the moon.  Yet all the years of child
and girlhood, before the iron horse was
conceived, or the crude ore taken from the
bowels of mother earth to form the course
laid through and over this mighty conti-
nent, along which he now runs his tireless
race,snuffing the waters of two great oceans,
we set our heart upon one day seeing this
far off land and floating upon the bosom of
the great Western sea.  No wonder, then,
we recalled our youthful ardor when gazing
afar over its waters through the "Golden
Gate," and with fervent gratitude thanked
our Heavenly Father for guiding our foot-
steps safely hither, although life's sun had
past its meridian.  Yet, nevertheless,
blessed be His name! it was in His own
way and time.  We roamed along the beach
gathering shells, waiting until the tidal
waves came in, dashing over our feet and 
garments, baptizing us with their white,
billowy spray, telling strange stories of dis-
tant lands, or the wonders of the deep, of
the precious burdens they have borne, and
of shipwreck and disaster--while we sent
back our voice in snatches of old songs,
clapped our hands; cheered, applauded
these monster waves and sea lions, big and
little, as they gamboled in their native ele-
ment, or scrambled out of it to stretch
themselves high above the waters upon
their island-rock castles, monarchs of all
they survey.  Yea, we left our years and
cares behind (our party at the Cliff also),
and like a very child wandered over the
steep, rugged cliffs out of sight of the sea-
beach road, gathering wild flowers unmolest-
ed, until we had more than we could well car-
ry, and thought of retracing our way back,
when lo!  there appeared just below us, on
the side of this sterile cliff, one of the love-
liest, most magnificent villas imaginable.
We scarcely dared breathe, lest the vision
might suddenly disappear--such beauty in 
such a place could only be an illusion, it
seemed.  On the border and surrounding
this gem cut in the sterile cliff were trees
from twenty to forty feet in height, wide
avenues bordered with lovely flowers, and
plots of ground with true ivy so delicate,
so artistically arranged, rustic seats and
marble nymphs, statuary, vases, baskets,
everything to beautify and adorn that art
or nature could do.  Strolling around this
marvelous place, through a small gate not
much used we judged, we entered a small
garden of flowers; through this we had a
view of a conservatory of choice tropical
plants; going down sleep steps into another
and then another, where there were tall
fuchias and trellises covered with blossoms
of the heliotrope and roses; birds were
chirping and hopping about, but not a sign
of human being, although there were many
handsome habitations surrounding the cen-
tre one, which appeared almost embowered
with magnificent trees and vines.  We be-
gan to suspect this was the home of the 
Sleeping Giant, and determined to arouse
him or some of his minions, as we saw no
possible way of effecting an entrance into
the main grounds excepting by a wide gate
a little ajar, we made the attempt to pass,
when an ugly dog (like Erebus guarding 
the entrance) rushed toward us opening his
cavernous throat yelling with the force of 
all the furies of Hades.  His unearthly yells
brought no one to our aid; in vain we called
for help.  There was nothing to be done
but beat a retreat, and this we did, shifting
under a little alcove on the stone steps
watching our enemy, until he gave up the 
battle and went to his tent (or kennel).  We
noticed the length of his chain in his fran-
tic attempts to reach us, and thought we
could slip by while he was off guard.  We
crept close to the opposite side of the gates
and glided through, with Erebus at our 
heels; fortunately he did not reach them,
else my adventure would have had a tragi-
cal termination.  Once out of the way of
this monster, we walked boldly to the man-
sion and rung the bell; this had no effect.
Then we went through a trellised portico,
and knocked, opening the door at the same
time upon a stupid young Englishman and
French servant girl, who stared at us as if
they thought a messenger had appeared
from the world of spirits.  Something was
wrong in that camp evidently, but we took
in the situation, and partly made the Eng-
lishman to understand we only wished to
see the grounds and gain all the informa-
tion possible concerning this strange place
in the desert.  We soon learned that he
was not going to enlighten us even if he
could, and this last we very much doubt.
We asked if the proprietor could be seen,
but did not receive and reply. 
	We saw the arrangement for throwing
water over the trees--not a hose, but a sort
of Persian wheel, such as the King of Baby-
lon had to throw water upon and nourish the 
trees and plants of his hanging gardens, and
to all our inquiries the servant was as utterly
incapable of giving an intelligent answer as
a Chinaman just imported.  Had the pro-
prietor been at home, we might have heard
something more tangible, and been com-
pensated for forcing our way through dan-
ger of extermination.  As it was, we ram-
bled through the grounds,  until time
warned us that we must not linger, but
make our way out of this strange place and
back to the Cliff House, which we did by
the carriage road, the main avenue up the
steep graded mountain.  This was the best
part of it, for the gardener made as much
parade opening the great gates and direct-
ing us as ceremoniously out of the grounds
as they had unceremoniously been entered
into.  However, we returned without harm,
loaded with the sweetest, brightest, loveli-
est wild and cultivated blossoms that na-
ture ever produced; and when; with our
arms full, we came in sight of our party,
they exclaimed with wonder, "Where have
you been, and where did you get all those
beautiful flowers!"  "Oh, but you have lost
such a grand sight," said one lady; "one of
the most terrible fights, or battles, between
two monster sea-lions.  Oh, it was the
grandest sight I ever saw!"  Never mind,
one cannot see everything; the sea lions
had their fight and we had ours!
	If there was time you should have the
story of the sea lions' fight, as it was told
to me; as it is, we will pass them over, and
some day you may witness a similar one
for yourself.  But with the experience
given of the other encounter, you will do
better, should you desire to explore this
mountain villa, to go by the way of the
main entrance and when the master of the
premises is upon them.  The sequel, or a
part of it is--a rich man, after his wife had
been taken from him by death, wandered
around one day through this wild region to
forget his grief, or nurse it, nobody knows
which, conceived the plan of building a
retreat of beauty and luxury, and having it
all to himself and servants; and thus his
wealth has brought out of deep ravines,
abrupt acclivities, precipitous hills and long
stretches of rough, stony, flinty slides, a
marvel of wonder to all who have seen it.
The great trouble is lack of water to supply
the demand of all these trees and plants
and sustain such an immense establishment
of vegetable and animal life in the heart
of a high rock, for such in reality is the 
case.  Already he is becoming weary of it,
and it may yet to be left to the peaceful en-
joyment of some stupid servant, or distant
relative--but it does not matter to either
you or me, dear reader, who has the beau-
tiful "nest in the crags;" we do not envy
the proprietor,"nor his sisters, nor his cous-
ins, nor his aunts;" we have seen, and if
we did not conquer, eluded the ugly guard.
 Now, we fully intended to have taken
you with us upon Telegraph Hill--"Moun-
tain of Temptation" we call it, for it com-
mands a view of most of the city of the
bay, Golden Gate, many towns and places
surrounding it, as well as mountain and
villages beyond.  Here you may take in
"Goat Island," a military reservation, Al-
catray, another strongly fortified naval
station at the entrance of the bay; Angel
Island, north of Alcatray, is another mili-
tary reservation; beyond this towers up the
peak of Mount Talmapais, the highest near
the city; from the north San Pablo Bay,
Berkley, where the State University is
established, Oakland, Alemeda, The Coast-
hills, far over the bay San Jose, and every-
where enough to satisfy and gratify the
largest desire for sight-seeing, providing
the fogs do not obstruct your range of vision.
Then there is North Beach, Ringon Hill,
Mission Hills, and many more with human
habitations, impraaticable for wheeled ve-
hicles, but very nice to be carried up their
steep sides (as in many instances) in cars
drawn by an endless rope running just be-
low the surface.  Going down these slopes
reminds me of the splendid long sled-rides
on the smooth, hard snow-crust on the steep
hillside in the Eastern part of our dear old
grandfather's farm.  Funny, is it not?  But
every time we go down one of these steep
hillsides in this way my mind reverts to
those healthful, exciting sports of long,
long ago.  The long stretch up hill was not
in the least thought of; the toil was more
than compensated for by the jolly rided own.
And so, dear reader, as long as the faculty
of recollection is left us, there is still (Jean
Paul says) an Eden for mankind, out of
which nothing can drive them.  Thus
memory sometimes comes when our hearts
are sad, with flashes of light to cheer and 
gladden.


With the sincere hope that we have not
wearied you, and also that among your re-
ollections of the past there may be many
to gladden, comfort and cheer, we bid you
a loving adieu!
