STAMP.

	The postage-stamp was born in London,
on the 10th of January, 1840; and England
employed it alone for ten years. France
adopted it on the 1st of January, 1849; and
G[-]rmany, in 1850. According to M. Al
phonse Esquiros, it was a curious incident
that gave rise to the idea of postage-stamps.
A traveler was crossing, about forty years
ago, a district in the north of England. He
arrived at the door of an inn, where a
postman had stopped to deliver a letter. A
young girl came out to receive it. She
turned it over and over in her hand, and
asked the price of the postage. This was
a large sum, and evidently the young girl
was poor; for the postman demanded a
shilling. She sighed sadly, and said that
the letter was from her brother, and that
she had no money; and so she returned it
to the postman. The traveler was a man
who rambled about the earth for instruc-
tion and observation. Having a good heart,
he offered to pay the postage of the letter;
and, in spite of the resistance of the young
girl, he paid the shilling. This resistance
made him reflect. Scarcely had the post-
man turned his back than the young inn-
keeper's daughter confessed that it was a
trick between her and her brother.


Some signs marked upon the envelope
had told her all she wanted to know; but
the letter itself contained no writing.
	"We are both so poor!" she added, "and
so we invented this mode of corresponding,
and prepaying our letters."  The traveler
continuing  his  road, asked himself if a
system giving place to such frauds was not
a vicious one.  The sun had not set before
Mr. Rowland Hill (that was the name of
the traveler) had planned to organize the
postal service upon a new basis.  He said,
that  in  England, where  family  ties  are
strong, and where the members often live
far apart, where, too, the spirit of commerce
knows no limits, the correspondence was
only limited by the cost of the post; and
that, by lowering this barrier, a great ser-
vice would be rendered to society, without
hurting the  resources  of  the  treasury.
These views were agreed to by the English
Government, and on the 10th of January,
1840, not more than a penny was paid for
letters which circulated over the whole ex-
tent of the British Isles.  This bold scheme
soon surpassed the hopes of the legislators.
	Ten years later, in 1850, the number of
letters increased from 1,500,000 to 7,239,-
962.  Mr. Rowland Hill occupied, in Eng-
land, the post of secretary to the postmas-
ter-general. - From the French.


