PROVO CANON.

	Entering the canon named above, which
is one of the grandest in Utah, you pass
around a sort of serpentine road following
the Provo river, just where it has been
possible to cut a highway, through rock
and on the steep sides of mountains, the
road just barely wide enough to allow a
carriage or wagon to travel, but in many
places impossible for teams to pass each
other, so that when you turn one of the
angles, or bends in the road you are in fear
lest there will be a team coming from the
other direction. The Utah Lake stretches
away towards the horizon in the Southwest,
before you are fairly in the canon, and on
the other side are the towering heights of
the Wasatch mountains.
	As one travels through this wonderful
mountain pass, the picture is grand in its
effect upon an imaginative nature; the
lofty mountains, many of them of almost
solid rock, look like great battlements,
rough and of all forms; and one could imag-
ine them castles, towers, turrets, and struc-
tures of immense size in rough architec-
ture; or, perchance, the ruins of ancient
buildings, once the homes of a great and
powerful people, now but petrified. Out of
these barren, rugged mountain sides, in
clefts and crevices wherever there is a par-
ticle of soil, grow shrubs and trees, in many
instances tall pines and cedars. Some of
the mountains, less rocky and more abun-
dant in dry loamy soil, are covered with
shrubs and plants and short, dry grass.
	Occasionally in traveling along I saw
rabbits, and they would stop sometimes,
and pricking up their long ears look at us
with their beautiful sharp eyes, as much as
to say, What right have you to disturb us?
Squirrels hopped about gaily, and now and
then some wild bird flew past, as if in ter-
ror.
	In some parts of the canon the rocks rise
perpendicular to a very great height, and 
present a lofty and imposing appearance,
which inspires one with awe and thoughts
of even a weird nature would seem appro-
priate to the place and its surroundings. It
is really one of the wildest and most ro-
mantic places I ever have seen.
	Provo river is always in sight, its banks
usually fringed with willows, which bend
gracefully over the water, although scat-
tered along are choke-cherry, elder-berry
and hawthorn trees. There was a fire burn-
ing in the canon as we passed through, and
although a canon fire looks grand, yet there
is something fearful in it which detracts
from the enjoyment of its splendor.
	Arriving at about the centre of the canon
you reach the bridge which crosses the
river, and here, indeed, is the acme of beauty
and grandeur, the celebrated cascade, or
waterfall, called "The Bridal Veil." The
water falls from a high mountain of solid
rock perpendicular several hundred feet,
and foaming and dashing down the moun-
tain side, the white spray is blown out by
the wind until it is as thin and filmy as
gauze, and in length and fineness of tex-
ture really resembles the article whose
name it bears. The water flows through
apertures in the rocky mountain side from
a lake on the very summit of this high
mountain. The waters form in a sort of

[Column 2]
basin that can be seen from the ground, and
then flow over and down, forming this
beautiful picture in the midst of the most
rugged mountain pass. After crossing the
bridge the scenery is very similar, the
river lying on the other side of the road.
A few miles on you come to Deer Creek,
which flows down the mountains and emp-
ties into the river. Formerly great quanti-
ties of beautiful deer inhabited this region
of country, but have been killed off and
driven away by the settlers.
	Already autumn has tinged the leaves of
shrubs and trees in these mountain locali-
ties, adding beauty and rich coloring to the
scenery; the maples blaze in crimson, and
the oaks in their poor imitation give a
brightness and charm to the picture.

