BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	We promised our readers a continuation
of articles on etiquette and extracts from
the best book on that subject—Mrs. Ward's
Sensible Etiquette.
	"Zimmerman tells us that to entertain
and benefit readers, authors must deliver
freely in writing that which, in the general
intercourse of society, it would be impos-
sible to say either with safety or politeness.
They may even decompose the state of their
own minds, he adds, and make observa-
tions on their own characters for the benefit
of other men, rather than leave their bodies
by will to professors of anatomy."
	"It is when our faults are held up to view
so that we can in a small degree see our-
selves as others see us, and aim to correct
our errors and shortcomings, and our man-
ners, that we may attain a greater excel-
lence in all that is elevating and refining.
It is the prerogative of the writer to impress
those who read with the language of truth,
and express plainly his, or her thoughts
upon the manner and conduct of society, as 
mingling in it, one must impose silence
upon themselves in regard to these subjects.
Consequently are they left for the author;
and if he does his duty in this respect he
is deserving of thanks, for he saves us all
from much that is unpleasant."
	Thoughtlessness is as much vulgarity as
ignorance, and deserves more severe con-
demnation. We are not as much to blame
for ignorantly committing an error as we
are for neglecting that which we know to
be a duty because of lack of thought, or
consideration for others.
	We are capable of much more than we
are apt to imagine, and when placed in cir-

[Column 2]
cumstances which compel us to exercise
latent faculties, we begin to comprehend
something of the power of the human soul
and will.
	We should be polite from an innate con-
viction that it is a part of the true charac-
ter, which belongs to the eternal beauty
which will exist forever; and also that it
is a duty we owe to those with whom we
associate, and an expression of love to our
neighbor, which our Savior gave as a com-
mandment.
	It may seem to some of our readers that
it is uncalled for to write articles upon eti-
quette, but even though we may all know
these little trifles, we need to be occasion-
ally reminded of them, as we all do of our
daily duties and obligations. There is a
host of children growing up in this com-
munity, and as it cannot be expected that
all parents have time or inclination to teach
them all that is expected of them in So-
ciety; it is therefore absolutely necessary
that they should be instructed by reading.
"Those who ridicule this sort of drilling,
who refuse to adopt the forms that the cul-
tivated adopt, not only expose their own
deficient training, but their conduct gives
increased testimony to the necessity that
exists for a more general understanding of
those laws of social life which, like the
laws of the universe, prevent all things
from returning to chaos. Some of these
laws of social life, like the laws of civil
life, differ in different lands; although not
those that are the most essential in the
regulation of conduct and behavior. Every-
where children are taught that affectation
and pretence are vulgarities; that it is a
vulgarity to yawn without making some
effort to suppress it; *	* to whistle or
hum in the presence of older persons,
whether in railway cars or in houses, or to
make any monotonous noise with feet or
hands, beating time, etc.; to play with nap-
kin rings, or with any article at the table
during meal time; to pick the teeth with
the fingers; to cut or clean the nails out-
side of one's dressing-room; to lounge any-
where in the presence of company; to
place the elbows on the table, or to lean
upon it while eating; to take hold of per-
sons or to touch them with familiarity while
talking with them; to speak of absent per-
sons by their first names, when you would
not so address them if they were present:
to acquire the habit of saying "you know,"
"says he," and "says she;" to use slang
words; to tattle; to scratch the head or
person; to whisper in company; to hide
the mouth with the hand when speaking;
to point at any one or anything with the fin-
gers; to stare at persons; to laugh at one's
own stories or remarks; to toss articles in-
stead of handing them, and to take any-
thing without thanking the one who waits
upon you (excepting at table), be it a supe-
rior, an equal, or an inferior. Everywhere,
also, children are taught that it is a rude-
ness to stand in the way, without instantly
moving when another tries to pass; not to
say "I beg pardon" when you have in any
way inconvenienced some one; starting up
suddenly and running from the room with-
out asking to be excused; going before
older persons, who are entitled to precede
you, when leaving a room with them; leav-
ing the table with food in the mouth. tak-
ing possession of a seat that belongs to an-
other, and not rising instantly upon his re-
turn; leaving any one without saying
"good-bye," or giving at least a bow; in-
terrupting any one in conversation; contra-
dicting, pushing, or even coming in con-
tact with another unintentionally, without
begging pardon for the seeming rudeness;

[Column 3]
want of punctuality; neglecting to answer
notes and letters promptly, especially those
requiring information; ridiculing others;
passing any one whom you know without
speaking, with whom you are on speaking
terms; keeping the hat on in the house in
the presence of a lady; and many others
too numerous to mention, are regarded
either as vulgarities or as rudeness. They
denote want of early training, or a coarse
nature, not susceptible of refinement, for
manners are the fruits of mind."

	These are a few of the very simplest
things pertaining to our daily intercourse
with each other in the family and social re-
lation. They are easily acquired by all, and
yet how often they are neglected. Want
of thought, and sometimes, we think, of
self-respect, as well as that genuine love
for others, and consideration for their feel-
ings, which should characterize the soul of
every true man and woman, are the causes,
and when we become indifferent to all the
little trifles which beautify life and make
our homes pleasant and our hearts light,
we may look in vain for the great blessings
which we desire. Everything has its foun-
dation in the little grains that make up the
whole, and home happiness and the plea-
sures of society depend much more upon
what we call trifles than we are apt to im-
agine. Then let us who profess to be
brothers and sisters of one great family,
study to observe the laws of politeness and
good breeding, and be careful to avoid all
that would in any way wound another, or
cause us to lose our own self respect. I am
aware that these things are often alluded to
as mere forms, but they are the sure index
to the feelings, and if we are always care-
ful to observe the little civilities we owe to
each other, it will save us much unpleas-
antness and many an explanation, perhaps
apology, and we shall be better satisfied
with ourselves when we feel we have, even
in the smallest matter, done "to others as we
would they should do to us."

(To be continued.)


