EXPONENT.

	RECENTLY THREE has been considerable
home-missionary work done by the sisters who
have traveled in different parts of the Territo-
ry, and some in adjacent settlements in other
Territories. Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne,
S. M. Kimball and S. M. Heywood left Salt
Lake City July 1, and traveled North, visiting
Smithfield and Hyde Park in Cache Co., then
on through the [-]ettlements of Bear Lake
Stake, meeting with the Societies in all the 
places where there are women's organizations,
and organizing the children in Primary Asso-
ciations, where it had not previously been ef-
fected. They were in Paris and attended the
Relief Society Conference of that Stake, also
that of the Young Ladies' and Primary Asso-
ciations, which were held conjointly. They
found everything pertaining to woman's work
there in excellent order, which speaks well for
the people in that vicinity. The sisters visited
Soda Springs and rested there a short time, re-
freshing themselves with the local beverage,
soda water, exploring and making a few collec-
tions of the natural curiosities. Returning
home the sisters took another route, visiting
and holding meetings with the sisters at other
places, making in all forty-one meetings.
	Sister E. R. Snow stopped at Brigham City
on her return and spent a week, holding ten
more meetings with the sisters' and children's
organizations.
	On Sunday, Aug. 31, we accompanied Sis-
ter E. R Snow to Kaysville, to attend the
Quarterly Conference of the Young People's
Associations of Davis Co. It was a very inter-
esting meeting, presided over by Elder Roberts,
Pres. of Y. M. M. I. A., and Mrs. Nancy A.
Clark, Pres. of Y. L. M. I. A, of Davis Stake.
Elder Junius F. Wells, who has charge of the
entire Associations for young men, was present
and made a very able and eloquent speech.
Elder Roberts, Elder Hyde and others of the
young men acquitted themselves admirably.
Mrs. Clark selected two Counselors, who were
unanimously elected—Misses Sarah Louise
Roberts, of Centreville, and Helen E. Hyde
of Kaysville—and Mrs. Phebe Peart was elected
Treasurer for the Young Ladies' Stake Organ-
ization.
	On Tuesday morning, Sept. 2, we left the
city, accompanying S[-]ster E. R. Snow on a
tour through Wasatch Co.  We arrived at Bro.
G. W. Brown's in Charleston the same evening,
and the next morning met with the Relief So-
ciety in Cha[-]les[-]on. After meeting we rode
over to Heber Ci[-]y with the sisters, Miss Min-
nie Hatch drove a span of spirited hors[-]s for
us as easily and as gracefully as any young
man. There was a m[-]eting at two o'c[-]ock,
very numerously attended, many of the breth-

[Column 3]
ren and sisters from other settlements being
present. The next morning we were unable to
attend meeting, but "Sister Eliza" assisted
Pres. Hatch in effecting an organization of the
Relief Society Stake, with Mrs. Emma Brown,
of Charleston, President, Mrs. Sarah Alexan-
der, of Heber City, and Mrs. Mary Daybell,
Counselors, Mrs. Mary Bronson, of Midway,
Secretary. "Sister Eliza" also assisted the
Bishops in organizing a Relief Society in each
Ward of Heber City, which has been some-
what recently divided in two districts. Mrs.
Margaret Muir, the former President, presides
over one ward, and Mrs. Catherine Foreman is
President of the other.  A Primary Associa-
tion was also effected in each of the wards.
	The following day Sister E. R. Snow visited
Centre Creek and assisted Bishop Cluff to or-
ganize a Relief Society, with Mrs. Cluff as
President. "Sister Eliza" also organized a
Primary Association there. The same evening
she went to Midway, where she held two meet-
ings the next day, and organized a Primary
Association. On Saturday morning we were
just able to get into the carriage and ride over
to Midway to see the place and look upon the 
faces of the sisters.  During our brief illness
we were most kindly cared for by Sister Hatch
and the young ladies, which we shall ever re-
member with feelings of sincere gratitude.
The ladies were each and all of them most as_
siduous in their attentions, and to their kind
and skillful nursing, under the blessing of God,
we owe our speedy restoration from a severe
illness.
	On Sunday morning Mrs. Hatch took us over
to Big Hollow, a part of Charleston where
there are quite a number of children, and a 
Primary Association was organized.  In the
afternoon we met with the brethren and sisters
in Charleston Meeting-house, and after the 
Sacrament was administered, Bishop Murdock
desired the sisters to occupy the time.  The
President of Charleston Relief Society having 
been chosen to preside over the Stake, it neces-
s tated a new organization of R. S., which was
effected, and Mrs. Melissa Murdock was elected
President.  At four o'clock a meeting was
held to organize the children.  Monday morn-
ing two carriage loads of us went over to 
Wallsburg, met with the Relief So[-]iety in the 
forenoon and organized the children in the af-
ternoon.  This finish[-]d the labor in that vi-
cinity for the present  having held fourteen
meetings and effected twelve organizations,
including seven Primary Associations.


