NOTES AND NEWS.

 ON TUESDAY, Aug. 26, there was a large
Suffrage meeting at Worcester, Mass. Very
able speeches were made by Hon. George
Hoar, Miss Eastman and Col. T. W. HIg-
ginson.
 MISS WORDSWORTH, daughter of the 
Bishop of Lincoln and grand-niece of the
poet, is to be the principal of the college
for young ladies that is to be established at
Oxford.--EX.
 MRS. E. M. PIKE is said to be the first
women who ever started a daily paper in
England.  She is publisher and proprietor
of the "Derby Daily Telegraph," an eve-
ning paper, and the first paper published in 
the town of Derby.--EX.
 A NIECE and amanuensis of Thomas Car-
lyle, the author, was married on Thursday,
Aug. 28, to her cousin, Alexander Carlyle,
of Brentfield, Ontario.  The ceremony was
performed  at Dumfries, Scotland; her un-
cle, the author, was present at the wedding.
--Ex.
 A CINCINNATI lady, Mrs. Mary Gano
Burnett, writing of her school days  and of
Lafayette's reception in the Western city,
says:  "I was one of those that walked in
the Lafayette procession, and we wore green
sunbonnets instead of calashes.  They were
all lined with pink crape inside, which gave
us a very rosy appearance.  We also had
broad blue sashes, with "Lafayette" on the
tips, and the same on the back of our gloves.
Our slippers had the same decoration."

 ITALY IS preparing to extend the suffrage
to every citizen above twenty-one years of 
age who can read and write.  Signor Salva-
tore Morelli, a member of the Italian Par-
liament, has proposed that women who ful-
fill the legal qualifications required of
electors shall be admitted to the suffrage.
Petitions in favor are receiving the signa-
tures of a large number of women.--EX.

 THE "BALLOT BOX" tells how our rulers
in Congress do business, "At the last ses-
sion of Congress, after passing the Legisla-
tive Appropriation Bill, *  *  the Senate
adjourned to attend a horse-race at Balti-
more.  Women were taxed to pay for this 
fun.  How do you like it, women? you who,
many of you, are struggling to live?  If
you don't like it work for representation.
Now you are in the hands of your political
masters and must submit to their methods
of spending your money."

 THE WASHINGTON Correspondent of the
"National Citizen and Ballot Box,"  Mrs.
Sara Andrews Spencer, whom we know to
be a most estimable lady and well acquaint-
ed with the state of society in the Capital,
has a very interesting letter in the Septem-
ber number of that journal, entitled "Home-
less Mothers and Nameless Children,"
which shows up briefly in its true light the 
condition of women who are uurepresented.
She says:  "After the adjournment of each
Congress, as the vast floating population
leave the city, I dread to hear my door-bell
ring.  Young girls from the hospital, with
infants in their arms, ruined and deserted,
homeless, friendless, utterly helpless, come
day after day asking the same sad question,
'Is there any place for me to go?  Would
anybody take me with my baby?'  No, no,
no; nobody wants either of you.  Keep
your treasure, young mother.  The father
will never appear to claim it. *  * But
where shall I go?'  God only knows.  I had
five little babies in my care last week, while
the mothers, weak from want of food, were
trying to get work.  And still they come.
These tragedies of weakness, ruin and de-
sertion never cease.  Yet the great world
takes no note.  These are only friendless
women."


