LETTER IX.

I wandered through the halls of memory,
	And as my footsteps trod the solemn way
	I search'd each crevice for its treasury,
Wherein were hid the gems I'd laid away.

	It is an extremely pleasant thing when
we are resting to have some interesting
subject to reflect upon, and as people ad-
vance in years their thoughts are very apt
to revert to their past life and its peculiar
phases and many exigencies. With those
who have accumulated wealth, the thoughts
often rest upon the ways and means em-
ployed, the industry, thrift and business
enterprise they have practiced, and the
competition with others struggling for the
same purpose; but with this class we are
not specially in sympathy. If their wealth
is their all, their entire stock, then we can
pity them, for although it may be and is a
very good thing to have plenty of this
world's goods, yet these are not the best
treasures we can lay up in store.
	Indeed no; the record of good deeds and
happiness bestowed upon others will give
us more true pleasure than all else. It is
well to call to mind occasionally our own
lives, and examine our records; see whether
they are what we desire to make them, and
if we have made some mistakes, committed
some errors, seek to compensate for them

[Column 2]
by being more just, generous, charitable
and tender of our fellow-beings in the fu-
ture.
	I often hear the remark, "The past I have
nothing to do with, the future is mine;"
but I always think we can perhaps make
some amends if we look over our old ac-
counts, can pay off some old scores that
otherwise might stand against us. If there
are any lessons to be learned in this way,
any true balance that can be made, we
should be careful to make it.
	But when one can quietly sit down and
recall the memory of good deeds, of gener-
ous acts, of noble examples, there must be
true happiness in it. No matter how se-
vere the self-denial or self-discipline may
have been that it required. So much the
better, and so much more heroism does it
evince. If under adverse circumstances
one can attain to a sublimity of action, there
must be a corresponding degree of enjoy-
ment, and this, heightened by a sense of
the superiority over one's natural selfish-
ness, will give an impetus to character
which will strengthen similar efforts in the
future, and awaken emulation in the hearts
of others.
	Good deeds are the bright spots in our
lives to which after long years, when we
are perhaps grown weary with many cares
and perplexities, we can always look back
and gaze upon with complacency. They
are the pictures which hang upon the walls
of our inner dwelling-places, that give tone
to the sometimes dismal and dingy apart-
ments, or compensate in part for the rough-
ness of their finish. These are the trea-
sures which never burden us, never press
heavily upon our consciences. The angels
take note of these for us, and we need
never fear results. Time can never obliter-
ate them, for they are utterly imperishable,
storms and rude blasts are powerless to de-
face them, no enemy, however bitter, can
destroy them, they are a living witness for
those who have wrought them. We cannot
have too many of these precious treasures,
they are not cumbersome, in the long,
dreary days, if such should be our lot,
when sleepless nights and weary vigils
come; the remembrance of these good
deeds will cheer our hearts and give us
fresh vigor of spirit, for we shall feel we
have not lived in vain, but that our life has
been a blessing to others, and that we have
sown some good seed, which may spring
up into everlasting life.
							AUNT EM.
	[handwritten] E. B. Wells


