[Vol9 | October 1922 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: A Twisted Holiday Lila Little Hicken]

A Twisted Holiday Lila Little Hicken "Say, mother, will you press my skirt tonight? I would do it myself, but I simply must go to the store again. 1 forgot to _get some napkins for our lunch," called Wanda Allen, as she came bustling into the dining-room where her mother sat sewing. "Well, if I get time, I will," mother Allen replied, looking up at her pretty dark-eyed daughter. "But I promised Lucy I would sew the fasteners on her dress tonight." "Oh, mother! What if she doesn't get her new dress tonight, she'll be all right. She can wear my pink one. I must hurry or the stores will be closed." She snatched up her hat and bounded out of the door. Mother Allen sat sewing silently for awhile, then she heard familiar footsteps in the hall, as Vern, her seventeen year old son, put his head into the doorway. "Oh, here you are, mother! Did you find my collar button that I lost," he asked, advancing into the room. "Ves," said mother Allen," and your suit is hanging out on the clothes line. Bring father's clothes in, too, when you come." _ "All right. Say, but we'll have to do some hustling in the morning. Got to be at the station at fifteen to six or we'll not get a seat." "Are there such a lot of people going?" mother asked pleasantly. "Goodness, yes; the whole town's going. Where are Lucy and Wanda?" "They are down town," mother Allen replied. "I guess they will come home with father at eight." "Say, will you black my shoes, mother? I've got to hellp father with the chores tonight and it will be so late when I get to bed I won't ever wake up. I guess you had betiter call me at four thirty so I'll have plenty of time," said the boy as he went into the kitchen. C He soon returned bringing his suit. 'Will you sew this button on mother? It's nearly off." "Did you bring father's suit?" "Oh, I forgot it. I'll bring it when I go out again." And out he went again. Still mother Allen sat sewing, humming a little ditty of her own girlhood days. At eight o'clock her reverie was broken by fourteen-year-old Lucy who ran in breathlessly, gasping:  "Oh, dear, I thought I would never get home. Every one of the girls I met had to find out what I was going to wear. Have you got my dressi done, yet? Say, isn't it pretty?" "Where is Wanda?" mother inquired ignoring the exultant gestures over the fluffy, blue gown. "Oh, she stopped in at Esther's to see if she should take a party dress," was the reply. "T'll go set the table for supper and Wanda can finish the supper when she comes. Wake me at four in the morning will you, mother? I want to curl my hair." Wanda went into the kitchen and soon merry snatches of song mingled with the rattle and clatter of dishes, while through her pretty head flashed visions of the excursion on the morrow. Two hours had passed away. Mother Allen had been busy with pressing the skirt, sewing buttons on breeches, and blacking shoes. The while within her head she had been turning over and evolving a plan so that the hours had slipped by like so many moments. As the old fashioned clock on the mantel was striking the hour of ten, mother Allen turned round to father Allen sitting in his accustomed place by the open' grate, with his paper in his hand. "Father," mother Allen began, "I've something to tell you now we're alone." For the three young people after reminding mother of their respective times to be called, and orders as to the way the lunch was to be prepared, had gone blissfully off to their usual happy dreamless slumber, "Well, dear, what is it?" father Allen asked laying down his paper. "Are we going on the excursion in the morning, father?" "Why, I had not even thought about it, mother." "T have got all our things ready and have put up luncheon for us two. So if you will go get your suit out on the line, (I reminded Vern of it twice, and he still forgot it) we'll be all set for getting off early in the morning," mother Allen said, smiling at the dumbfounded face of her husband. "Why, aren't the children going, mother?" "Of course they are, if they get up in time. I have made cnotigh sandwiches but I cannot remember how they wanted them put in, so I will leave it for them to put up in the morning. Vern asked me to black his shoes, but last time I did not get them to shine enough, so he can do them himself in a few minutes if he hurries in the morning. Lucy is to be called at four, Wanda at fifteen minutes after and Vern at four thirty. That would mean three trips up stairs, and you know how hard they all are to awaken. If I should waken one while calling another, they  would be out of patience for not getting in their extra few minutes of sleep. They are always complaining about not getting enough sleep, so we will let them sleep just as long as they like tomorrow," mother Allen said with a cute little nod, as if to say, "How do you like that?"; "Hurrah! For you, mother," said father Allen catching mother Allen in his arms and turning around the room in an old fashioned waltz, for during mother Allen's rehearsal he had caught the spirit of adventure. "Tt is just what I've been wishing for the last three years. You have made yourself the servant of the children in carrying out their every wish and whim. So tomorrow, we'll turn the tables and go for a well-earned excursion!" he exclaimed as he tripped out lightly after the forgotten suit. It was just nine o'clock in the morning. The little steamer Olglitha was moored by the rustic log dock, while the merry makers from the excursion train filed up the planking to the deck. Mother and father Allen, dressed gaily in their holiday clothes, while their faces beamed with excited delight, came in their. Turn to the plank and onto the steamer that was to carry them far into the recesses of the beautiful mountains, where they would spend the day in the pleasures usually confined to youth and happiness. It was with a feeling of remorse that mother Allen would think of the disappointed trio at home. "But then," she commented to herself as the steamer ploughed its way through the blue, glistening lake, 'A stitch in time saves nine.'" Down in the town a different scene was taking place. The warm June sun, which an hour ago had risen over the eastern horizon, was sending out long rays of sunlight. One of the sunbeams had found its way through the east window of Vern Allen's room. As it reached the sleeper's face the intense heat at last penetrated to the nerves, and with a start Vern Allen sat up, rubbed his eyes and blinked at the sun. Then he thought of the excursion. "What the deuce!" he exclaimed, jumping out of bed and grabbing at his clothes. "Hey, there, Lucy, Wanda, do you know the sun is up?" he shouted through the hall to them. "Gee, I wonder what's the matter with father and mother?" he said as he bounded down the stairs, half dressed, followed closey by Lucy and Wanda in their kimonos and paper curls. "T wonder if the clock has stopped!" said Wanda. "Oh, what if they are sick or dead," said Lucy, with'a startled look on her childish face.  As they reached the foot of the stairs they bounded towards the kitchen. When they opened the door, the sight that met their eyes made them wink and blink. The clock on the mantel was just striking the hour of nine; the supper dishes they had left for mother were still in the sink and unwashed. Vern's shoes were on a chair with the mud still on them. They went with a rush to their mother's room, The usually tidy room was in a strewn condition. Then Wanda's eye caught sight of a note pinned on the dresser scarf. "Well look at this," she said, snatching it off with an angry gesture, while tears of disappointment blinded her eyes. "What does it say, anyway?" said Vern, taking it from her. "Well, just listen to this!" she exclaimed. "Father and I have gone on the excursion. Lucy wanted me to wake her at four; Wanda at fifteen after; Vern at half past. I did not know how to manage it without waking you all at the same time, and you are so angry nearly every morning if you are awakened before your time, that I thought it would be a good itime to let you catch up with your much needed sleep. I did not black Vern's shoes because I can not make them shine enough to suit him. I was afraid to put up your lunch: Wanda is so particular about it. Have a good time, children, for young people can have a good time without going off on an excursion. "With love, "MoTHER." "P. S. Will you please hang up my clothes, Wanda? I did not have time. I wanted to have a good chat with Mrs. Smith before we got on the train. Will Vern please go one day without using slang? He does not need to be among the smart set today. "MotTHER." "Well, it serves us right,' said Wanda, "I am ashamed of myself. Last week when Mrs. Wray was here visiting I asked mother to hang up my clothes, because I wanted to see Lottie Smith before school." "And yesterday when mother was making my dress," said Lucy shamefaced, "she said if she had her dress made she 'would go, too; and I told her old people could get pleasure from staying at home." "Yes, you're always saying something smart,' Wanda said indignantly. "No, it's I who says the smart things,' Vern broke in. "Mother asked me to quit using such awful slang, and I told her all the smart set are using it now."  "Well, we're all to blame!" Lucy exclaimed as she began to undo her paper curls. "Yes, and here is the time to start anew isn't it, Vern?" asked Wanda going into the kitchen where Vern was busy light-. Ing a fire. "You bet your boo——I—I mean, yes, it is; so let's see how much we can get done today." "All right," sounded 'from the stairs as the two girls ran light-hearted up to thcir room for dust caps and aprons. At least they were "good sports" in Vern's vernacular. The old fashioned clock on the mantel in the Allen home was striking the fhour of ten, as a taxi drew up at the front door. Father Allen chuckled tohimself as he helped mother Allen out, and looking at the bright light glistening out through the mist and rain, said, "Looks like they're giving us a bright welcome, anyway." As they stepped onto the porch the door was thrown open and three happy faces gave them the glad cry of, "Welcome." They ushered their parents into the dining-room where a fire burned brightly in the open grate and a tempting supper was laid on the table. "We have had the grandest day!" Mother Allen exclaimed between breaths from the enraptured huggings she was receiving. "So have we," said Wanda. "For we have learned the lesson of our lives." This was followed by a glad "Hurrah, well said, Wanda," from both Vern and Lucy. The tobacco men have never tired of calling attention to "Uncle" Joe Cannon, with his big black cigar, as an example of the harmiessness of the tobacco habit, giving the impression that the aged man smoked continuously. Now comes Aaron H. Ulm, in Henry Ford's Dearborn Independent, with a sketch of Uncle Joe, in which he knocks the propaganda prop from under the tobacco men, by saying of Mr. Cannon: "While he affects long black cigars, he wears them more than he conswmes them. While he always has one in his mouth—or such was the case until recently, when his physician advised him to moderate the habit— he rarely finishes one. He merely chews up the ends and throws them away." So the truth is out at last. Mr. Cannon has simply been walking around chewing the ends of cigars, then tossing them aside! And even this seemingly minimum absorption of the weed his physician has advised him to moderate!—WwWl H. Brown, Superintendent Press Bureau "N o-Tobacco League of America."