[Vol9 | October 1922 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON II - Work and Business]
of  father  is  as  good  now  as  it  was  when  the  child  was  younger. 
It  is  not  that  the  parents  have  grown  less  intelligent  and  less 
deserving  of  obedience.  It  is  not  that  the  child  ihas  become  very 
much  wiser  or  less  in  need  of  intelligent  direction.  It  is  simply 
a  tendency  of  human  nature  which  now  asserts  itself  in  a  strong 
form.  Youth  is  passing  from  childhood  to  adulthood,  from  a  life 
of  dependence  to  a  life  of  independence  and  responsibility.  He 
will  soon  be  deprived  of  the  parental  direction  and  will  have  to 
think  and  act  on  his  own  responsibility.  It  is  weill  that  this 
desire  for  independence,  this  inclination  to  think  for  himself,  to 
form  his  own  judgmen  s  of  right  and  wrong,  should  express  itself, 
and  at  a  time  when  the  guide  to  conduct  does  not  depend  entirely 
upon  the  boy  himself.  Certain  business,  social  and  religious 
responsibilitie|j5  should  be  assumed  while  the  parent  is  near  by  to 
help  in  case  a  false  step  is  taken. 
The  boy  should  have  some  opportunity  to  earn  money,  and 
some  freedom  in  spending  it,  before  assuming  the  responsibility

GUIDE  LESSONS  501 
of  carrying  his  own  weight  in  the  world,  and  especially  before  he 
assumes  the  responsibility  of  supporting  a  family.  It  is  better  that 
he  makes  mistakes  in  .small  business  deals  and  spends  small 
am.ounts  of  money  while  father  and  mother  are  with  him  to  prevent 
extreme  westeful  adventure,  than  to  sustain  heavy  losses  when  he 
is  thrown  entirely  on  his  own  responsibihty.  Every  young  person 
is  sure  to  make  some  mistakes  when  he  plunges  into  the  world  of 
business  and  social  responsibility.  These  mistakes,  however,  can 
be  reduced  to  a  minimum  if  responsibilit'es  are  assumed  gradually 
and  under  the  eye  of  those  who  are  most  deeply  concerned  with 
his  welfare. 
Parental  Control  Carried  to  Extreme 
Sensible  direction  of  youth  during  this  period  requires  that 
we  guard  against  two  extremes.  On  the  one  hand,  no  young  per- 
son should  be  made  to  feel  that  he  must  do  nothing  on  his  own 
-es-^on^ihility.  Father  and  mother  must  occasionally  step  into 
the  background  and  observe  what  their  sons  and  daughters  are 
willing  and  capable  of  doing  without  parental  supervision.  The 
best  test  of  the  influence  of  parents  over  their  children  is  to  find 
out  what  will  be  the  latter's  conduct  when  they  are  left  to 
themselves. 
Independence   Carried  to  Extreme 
On  the  other  hand,  the  independence  of  youth  must  not  be 
permitted  to  go  too  far.  The  child  that  does  not  learn  to  give 
proper  value  to  the  advice  of  older  and  more  experienced  people 
will  be  deprived  of  a  principle  which  is  the  vers'  essence  of  pro- 
gress in  our  present  civilization.  There  has  never  been  a  period 
in  the  world's  history  when  men  so  depend  upon  the  judgment 
of  other  people  for  guidance  as  at  tlie  present  time.  We  use 
the  expert  in  all  lines  of  human  endeavor.  Proper  training  of 
the  young  adolescent  is  to  teach  him  when  to  use  his  own  judgment 
and  wdien  to  use  that  of  others. 
The  Gang  Spirit  of  Youth 
The  instinct  of  gregariousness  asserts  itself  very  strongly  in 
early  adolescence.  This  is  the  time  when  the  boy  is  most  happy, 
when  he  is  with  his  gang.  This  is  the  time,  too,  when  the  boy 
seems  to  be  more  interested  in  what  the  gang  and  its  leaders  think, 
say,  and  do.  than  in  the  opinion  of  the  members  of  his  own  family. 
\^ery  frequently  the  otherwise  good  boy  will  be  led  by  his  crowd 
to  do  things  that  he  would  never  think  of  doing  when  alone  and 
on  his  own  account.  Boys  who  do  not  smoke  may  be  led  to  smoke 
bv  the  crowd.  Drinking,  gambling,  and  even  stealing,  have  been 
indulged  in  bv  otherwise  good  boys  while  under  the  influence  of 
the  crowd  spirit.
