EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor _-_---__- SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager ------- JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager __-__-_ AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah VoL VII September, 1920 No. 9 The Coming of Elijah It is ninety-seven years on the 21st of this month, since the Prophet Joseph was visited by the angel Moroni his home at Palmyra. In that vision, the boy-prophet was told that Elijah should come and turn the hearts of the children to the fathers as had been prophesied by the last prophet in the Old Testament, Malachi. So much hung upon that announcement that was dim to the prophet then, but which today seems so great and so wonderful! Temples were to be built;  the doctrine of baptism for the dead was to be revealed;  men were to be quickened in antiquarian interest in searching out their forefathers;  books, histories, both state and local, were to be printed;  churches were to give up' long forgotten records;  societies and associations, both antiquarian and family patriotic and genealogical, were to be formed, governments were to be stimulated to gather and preserve vital statistics;  and above all, Elijah himself was to appear — not in Jewish households, where his coming had been symbolically watched for every recurring paschal night — but he was to come in a temple built to the name of Israel's God in Kirtland, Ohio, which he did April 3, 1836. All this, and more, much more, has come to pass. Temples increase, societies multiply, men and women spend fortunes 
 and lives in the search for ancestry. A great international congress on genealogy met just before we entered the world war, and thousands upon thousands are interested and engaged, most of them unconsciously, in fulfilling the prophecy made to the young prophet in the upper chamber at Palmyra. This year, as in years past, the Genealogical Society will memorialize the day in fitting exercises. Many of our Relief Society members will join in this pleasing duty. How pleasing to the Lord and his angels. While the armies of discontented men and women clash and quarrel, while war and famine, wild debauchery and cruel selfishness mar civilization, the Lord is filled with compassion for the misguided children of men and he is preparing the way for his second coming. They who stand in holy places shall not be moved. A SUMMER LULLABY. Mrs. Parley Nelson. Rockaby baby, the sun's in the west;  The robin has finished his song. The wee baby birds are asleep in their nest, And the sand-man is coming e'er long, The darkness is creeping and soon 'twill be night. The round moon is peeping, so close your eyes tight, And mother will sing her dear baby to rest. While the sweet little head snuggles close to her breast, Lullaby baby, lullaby by. Stars shyly peep through the curtains to see If the dear baby eyes are shut tight. Moon wanders 'round in her efforts to find If the wee one is safe for the night. The night-bird is calling so low, to his mate. The dew's gently falling and soon 'twill be late. So mother will sing her dear baby to rest. While the sweet little head snuggles close to her breast, Lullaby baby, lullaby by. Rexburg, Idaho, Guide Lesson Suggestions LESSON I. THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY. First Week in September. MORE LIGHT ON BAPTISM FOR THE DEAD. Reference: Section 128 Doctrine and Covenants. Text: "I wrote a few words of revelation to you concerning a recorder. I have had a few additional views in relation to this matter, which I now certify." Aim: The obligations of recorders and of living heirs in families. Obligations placed on an individual or any group of individuals involve the basic ideas of study, watch-care and service. We must remember what our duties are. We must watch ourselves that our performance is perfect and this requires faithful service. In the 128th section of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph that one temple recorder and even one Church recorder was not sufficient, but must be multiplied according to