Vol. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1875.		No. 10


BE CONTENT AND LIVE NOBLY.

There are joys that are countless, to make our life sweet,
True friends with warm hearts, each day we may greet; 
Then what if some toil and hardship we meet,
'Twill give us experience, to make life complete;
 Then let us be cheerful, content with the place
Which duty assigns us, and work with a will,
A resolve and a purpose, our measure to fill;
Carving out our own fortune, with wisdom and skill,
 And trusting in God to the end of the race.

Let us strive to be brave, in word and in deed,
To the voice of temptation never give heed,
But succor and help the weak in their need,
And walk in the path which to vict'ry will lead,
 Not thinking our lot is grevious to bear,
Nor our labor, though humble and lowly, is vain;
But; boldly the right ever strive to maintain,
And nobly endeavor true knowledge to gain,
 To dwell with the just and the holy, prepare.

There's work for the earnest and faithful to do,
There are hearts that are willing, and honest, and true;
And there's comfort and blessing awating them too,
And a crown everlasting, when the journey is through.
 Then let us not falter or fall by the way,
But faithfully seek in the right to be strong,
Shunning all that is evil, or sinful, or wrong;
For treasures unfading most earnestly long,
With faith for our anchor, our bulwark and stay.
EMILE.
OCT. 14, 1875.


For the EXPONENT.
JUDGE NOT.

By BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

 "Sweet as refreshing dews or summer showers,
 To the long parching thirst of drooping flowels;
 Grateful as fanning gales to fainting swains;
 And soft as trickling balm to bleeding pains,
 Are they kind words."
 What is more heavenly in its character
and tendency than a truly kind and broad
charity; Paul tells us that though we have
every other characterisitc of perfection, and
have not charity, we are lacking in some-
thing most essential. We are all of us prone
to err, to make mistakes in judgment, in dis-
criminating, to look at things from our own
standpoint, forgetting that we are only a
very diminutive part of the creation of God.
We measure others by a very crude and im-
perfect standard which we have raised in
our own minds, and often pass our opinion
upon another's conduct, without ever con-
sidering that it will effect any harm, or have
an influence against them. I believe those
who make human nature their study, and
carefully weigh advantages, opportunities
and circumstances, will be most careful in
passing their judgment upon individual
faults and failings.
 Mankind are all possessed of more or less
individuality, and it is as dissimilar in bear-
ing and effect, as the countenances and ex-
pressions of the individuals themselves;
then there are so many elements which
characterize and form the mind and habits
that exist in various stages of progression in
different places and states of society, that
no one person, unless possessed of the Spirit
of God, ought ever to judge, except by the
most careful and thorough examination and
investigation of  acts, circumstances, and
tendencies, as well as motives past and pres-
ent.
 Would not kindness and tenderness be
better than harsh and hasty judgment?
Perhaps the very one from whom we turn


n disgust has been crushed by neglect,
wounded by unkindness, perchanee inherited
a morbid sensitiveness, impossible to over-
come under opposing circumstances. We
want a more thorough knowledge of the
motives which actuate the human heart be-
fore we can judge each other. We want 
more wisdom than can be obtained at schools
and institutions of learning, to be able to
discriminate judiciously where one's charac-
ter, reputation and honor are at stake. We 
want to have the visions of our minds ex-
panded and our sympathies enlarged, our
love for humanity generously increased,
and then pass judgment first upon our own
acts, probe our own hearts, and when we 
unconsciously reach forth to judge another,
always remember the appropriate suggestion
of Charles Reade, "Put yourself in his
place." Those who can be most lenient to-
wards another's shortcomings, will have
most confidence go in faith and humility
to their heavenly Father for the forgiveness 
of their own.


NOTES AND NEWS.

 THE DISTINGUISHED French author and
journalist, Edmond About, it is expected,
will come to America next year to write
Centennial letters for several of the leading
French journals.

 TENNYSON'S QUEEN Mary has been dra-
matized and was performed on the stage for
the first time on the 4th inst., at the Arch
Street theatre, Philadelphia. The "Times"
does not speak very encouragingly of its fu-
ture, says it is not an acting play and will
not be likely to run more than a week.

 THE WOMAN Suffrage Club, South Bos-
ton, held a meeting Monday evening Oct.
4th; the greatest interest was manifested
by the members. Mrs. Julia Howe deliv-
ered an address. A committee of ladies
and gentlemen was chosen and appointed to
question candidates for nomination to the 
Legislature, in regard to their views on the
Suffrage question.

 EX-PRIEST GERDEMAN, who left the Ro-
man Catholic church not long since, has
been delivering lectures in Philadelphia,
which have been the subject of much com-
ment by newspaper writers, journalists and
the community generally. His lectures are
said to be eloquent, spicy and strictly in ac-
cordance with facts. He dwells at some
length on the curse of strong drink among
the priesthood. He speaks earnestly of his
devotion to the Catholic religion from child-
hood, and says he would have sacrificed his
life, inch by inch, for the Catholic church
before the dogma of infallibility was de-
clared.
 CHIFE JUSTICE Waite, of the Supreme
Court, in his decision before that honorable
body, denied that the right of suffrage is 
conferred upon any one by the fourteenth
amendment. The decision was made in the
case of Virginia T. Minor of Missouri. The 
"Woman,s Journal," in alluding to this says:
"There never could be any doubt of the
force of that amendment to any one who
read the first two sections of the amend-
ment together; as the first section secures
the full right of citizenship to all persons
born or naturalized in the United States and
subject to the laws thereof! The second
section tacitly admits the power of the
State to limit the right of Suffrage, even
as exercised by males over 21 years of age."
The Journal says "this is conclusive proof 
that the right of suffrage is not one of those
PRIVILIGES or IMMUNITIES secure from
abridgement in the first section." Citi-
zenship as meant in the first section signi-
fies merely "membership of the political
community constituting the nation." Wo-
man's right to such citizenship has been co-
extensive with man's. But the privilege
of voting is something conferred by the
State on whomsoever it chooses. It is clear
that the Constitution has not added the
right of suffrage to the PRIVILIGES and 
IMMUNITIES of citizenship as they existed
at the time of its adoption. And as a his-
torical fact at that time, the rights of men
and women did not include Suffrage."


THE RELIGION WE WANT.
	We want a religion that bears heavily, not
only on the "exceeding sinfulness of sin,"
but on the exceeding rascality of lying and
stealing; a religion that banishes small mea-
sures from the counters, pebbles from the
cotton bags, clay from the paper, sand from
the sugar, hiccory from the coffee, alum
from the bread, and water from the milk 
cans. The religion that is to save the world
will not put all the big strawberries at the top
and all the little ones at the bottom. It
will not make one-half a pair of shoes of
good leather, so that the first shall redound
to the maker's credit and the second to his 
cash. It will not put Jouvin's stamp on Jen-
kin's kid gloves; nor make Paris bonnets
in the back room of a Boston millinery
shop; nor let a piece of velvet that pro-
fesses to measure twelve yards, come to an 
untimely end in the tenth. It does not put
bricks at five dollars a thousand into chim-
neys it contracts to build with seven dollar
material; nor smuggle white pine into floors 
that have paid for hard pine; nor leave
yawning cracks in closets where boards ought
to join. The religion that is going to sanc-
tify the world, pays its debts. It does not
consider that forty cents returned from one
hundred cents given, is according to the 
gospel, though it may be according to law. 
It looks on a man who has failed in trade,
and who continues to live in luxury, as a 
thief.-Ex.


A statement showing the estimated an-
nual production of gold and silver in the 
twenty-five years from 1749 to 1873, has
been prepared by the bureau of statistics.
The annual average production of gold, ac-
cording to this statement, is $50,300,000,
and that of silver for the fifteen years from 
1859 to 1873, $13,000,000. The production
of gold has, with the exception of one year,
been annually increasing since 1856, and the
production of silver has, with the exception
of one year, been increasing since 1859, the 
production of gold and silver in 1873 being
almost the same.


74			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association con-
vened in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Sept. 25th, 1875, was replete with
teaching and instruction in accordance with
the spirit of reformation, which is rapidly
spreading among the saints. After the
usual exercises and reading of the minutes
by the secretaries of various wards, Presi-
dent Mrs. M. I. Horne among other in-
structions gave some counsel to the moth-
ers in regard to the clothing of their chil-
dren, and the attention to be paid to them
at this particular season of the year, when
the weather is so changeable and fruit so
abundant, that children require more than
ordinary care and watching.
	Miss E. R. Snow then gave an account of
the trip North, taken recently by herself
and Mrs. M. I. Horne, and the work going
on in the settlements they had visited.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball, who had been absent
nearly a year in California, expressed her
pleasure in meeting the sisters again, and
said her health had greatly improved; gave
some account of her visit and the feeling
existing towards this people in that country.
Mrs. P. Woodruff, Mrs. Madsen, Mrs. W.
East, Mrs. R. Pratt, Mrs. E. S. Barney,
and Mrs. Watmough each made excellent
remarks after which Miss E. R. Snow said:
"We expect to petition the Legislature to
let us have a Female Medical College, and
we shall want some lady qualified to super-
intend it; it is for this purpose we are try-
ing to raise means to send Mrs. Pratt East
that she may qualify herself for this posi-
tion."

		SANTAQUIN, Sept. 25, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Retrenchment Association of this
place held their second Annual meeting on
the 17th of Sept., 1875. After the usual
exercises and reading of the minutes, es-
says, compositions, and selections from the
EXPONENT and "Juvenile" were read by
the members. After which Bishop George
Halliday, who was present by invitation, ad-
dressed the sisters; he expressed his plea-
sure and satisfaction with the proceedings
of the Association, and instructed and en-
couraged them to go into HOME MANUFAC-
TURE as much as possible.
	Sister Zina D. Young being present ad-
dressed the sisters, instructing them to be
faithful and prayerful; said she was very
much pleased with the proceedings of the
sisters in this place and spoke at some length
upon the propriety of the sisters dressing
plain and neat; also upon Sericulture, etc.
	President Mary A. Stickney made some
very appropriate remarks, encouraging the
sisters to faithfulness.
	The house was plainly but neatly decorat-
ed for the occasion, and all seemed to enjoy
the Spirit of the Lord.
	Our Association is in a very flourishing
condition; we have our meetings every Fri-
day afternoon at 2 o'clock. Your most
valuable paper is read with interest in our
meetings, and we wish it may have an ex-
tended circulation.
	Your sister in the Gospel of Peace,
					ANN J. STICKNEY

	 NORTH OGDEN, Sept 19, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	We, your sisters, thought we would inter-
est your readers with a few items from our
Retrenchment Association. We are trying
to improve and live our religion to the best

[Column 2]
of our ability. The young ladies of this
place seem to be seeking after truth more
diligently than they have done heretofore.
We have a meeting once a week; they are
generally well attended; we enjoy ourselves
while we are together and feel happier than
we did before our meetings commenced.
We do not feel quite as timid to get up and
speak now, as we did at first. Two weeks
ago, in a meeting for the young people,
fourteen young men and young ladies stood
up and bore their testimony to the truth of
this work.
	It being the wish of President Young that
the Latter-day Saints should refrain from
round dancing, a vote was called to see if
we were willing to try and refrain from it,
and the vote was unanimous.
	We feel to sympathize with President
George A. Smith's family and the saints in
their great bereavement, but we do not
mourn as those without hope. Our desire is
to live so that we may be worthy to meet
him when we are called away from this
stage of action.
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
				ISABEL M. CRANDAL,
				SARAH JANE WADE,
				OLIVE P. FERRIN,
				CLARA V. BARNETT,

				KANAB, Sept. 23, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I could not let the opportunity pass with-
out giving you some idea of the good time
we have had during the visit of Pres. D.
H. Wells and party. He was accompanied
by Brothers Lorenzo Snow, F. D. Richards
and Erastus Snow of the Twelve. Also
Brothers R. T. Burton, A. M. Musser, J. E.
Taylor, R. McQuarrie, D. D. McArthur and
Bishop L. J. Nuttall.
	They spoke much on the UNITED ORDER,
and gave good counsel on various other sub-
jects.
	They said the time had come when we
must live our religion and obey the com-
mands of the Lord given by His servants,
that we should know for ourselves the true
way to live, and live in that way with all
our might and strength. Also that no one
could put in the plea of ignorance, for the
Prophet Brigham had given us enough good
counsel and instruction to save all who
would listen and obey.
	Elder Junius F. Wells spoke at consider-
able length to the young people. He said
their privileges were great in being born
and reared in the gospel, by parents that
never told them to do wrong. He plead
with them to live up to their privileges,
improve their minds, become what their
parents had been, and more.
	Would that we had more such young
men, who could stand up with boldness and
humility before their young brethren and
give them such good counsel.
	Brothers Levi Stewart and John R. Young
resigned their offices; the first as Bishop of
the Ward, the latter as President of the
United Order.
	Brother Nuttall from Provo was installed
Bishop of the Kanab Ward. He staid a
few days after the brethren left, and bap-
tized over seventy of the brethren and sis-
ters in the new covenant of the United
Order. After Conference Bishop Nuttall
will make his home with us.
	There seems to be a good spirit among
the people, and I think the future prospects
of Kanab are bright and promising.
					M. E. LITTLE.

[Column 3]
	FOUNTAIN GREEN Sept. 5th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the sisters of the Relief Society of
Fountain Green feel it our duty as well as a
pleasure to let you know of our prosperity
here as a Society. We are happy to inform
you that we are striving to do good to each
other by meeting together and strengthen-
ing each other in the faith of the Gospel,
pleading the cause of the poor and contribu-
ting of our limited means to afford them
some sustenance. The Society has been or-
ganized six years under the presidency of
Mrs. Polly Ann Johnson who has gained so
far the confidence of the sisters and has al-
so had the honor of establishing the Young
Ladies Society which is beginning to im-
prove, and we hope will gain strength con-
tinually. The young girls are employed in
sewing, quilting, and receiving instructions
necessary for their advancement in the good
cause; some of them are taking encourage-
ment and begin to arise and express their
feelings in their meetings, and realize the
benefits of being born of parents who are
in the Gospel and are trying to teach them
the plan of salvation. Quite a number of
the sisters have renewed their cove-
nants by baptism and almost every week
some few are added to their number. Al-
though we have not been visited here by
Sister Snow and company, yet the sisters
have been benefitted by their visits else-
where, as some of them have heard
their instructions and imparted them to oth-
ers. We are instructed by Sister Johnson
to carry out their counsel and increase in
home manufacture, and secure straw for
hats &c.
	We earnestly desire that the blessings of
our Heavenly Father may rest upon our ef-
forts to do good in this society, and extend
the same wish to all who are trying to do
good in every society throughout the Terri-
tory.
	We subscribe ourselves your sisters in the
New and Everlasting Covenant.
		POLLY ANN JOHNSON Pres't.
				    MARY JUKES Sec'y.	
		TREASURERS REPORT.
Remaining in the treasury in April
and loaned for Emigration, at in-
terest						$ 54 00
Captial Stock in Co-op Store		109 50
Dividends drawn and on hand	10 95
Donations received				22 54
Given to the poor				7 18
Paid for calico for quilts			4 60
Cash in the Treasury			8 40
Due bills on Co-op store on hand	4 65
		MARIA NIELSON, Treasurer.


HOW TO STOP A PAPER.--Do not take
your paper to the postmaster and tell him
to send it back; in nine cases out of ten you
will fail to stop it in this way. Do not at-
tempt to stop it yourself, and write on the
wrapper to discontinue; this is against the
law, and lays you open to fine. Before your
subscription expires send to the editor a
postal card, saying your subscription expires
on such a date; please discontinue at that
time. Sign your name, also the town and
State where your paper is sent, in full. If the
paper has been sent two weeks or more over 
the time for which it was paid, don't send a
postal card it will do no good; rather write
a letter and inclose what is due for arrear-
ages, always allowing that one number will
be sent before the letter reaches the pub-
lisher and his list is corrected. By observ-
ing these simple rules your requests will al-
ways be promptly attended to.--Printers'
circular.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 			75


THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE
WORLD.

Blessings on the hand of woman!
Angels guard her strength and grace
In the cottage, palace, hovel,
O, no matter where the place!
Would that never storms assailed it;
Rainbows ever gently curled;
For the hand that rocks the cradle
Is the hand that rocks the world.

Infancy's the tender fountain;
Power may with beauty flow;
Mothers first to guide the streamlet,
From them souls unresting grow.
Grow on for the good or evil,
Sunshine streamed or darkness hurled;
For the hand that rocks the cradle
Is the hand that rocks the world.

Woman, how divine thy mission
Here upon our natal sod;
Keep, O keep the young heart open
Always to the breath of God!
All true trophies of the Ages
Are from Mother Love impearled;
For the hand that rocks the cradle
Is the hand that rocks the world.

Blessings on the hand of woman!
Fathers, sons and daughters cry,
And the sacred song is mingled
With the worship in the sky--
Mingles where no tempest darkens,
Rainbows ever more are curled;
For the hand that rocks the cradle
Is the hand that rocks the world.
	WILLIAM ROSS WALLACE.


WHO IS MOST TO BLAME?

 Is woman usually a seducer? A few
years ago I sought to better my fortunes by
going West to teach in the public schools
of Illinois. I made the long journey en-
tirely alone, was not molested in any way,
and my journey  was most pleasant. I
often chatted with elderly gentlemen about
the change of cars, time of trains, etc. I 
remained in the West about two years, and
then again started homeward alone. One 
day I was sitting in the waiting-room of the
great Union depot of Indianapolis, waiting
for an Eastern bound train which was late.
I had my note-book before me and was
carelessly jotting down thoughts as they oc-
curred. Presently a portly, distinguished-
looking man, somewhat past the prime of
life and elegantly dressed, entered and took 
a seat near me; a map of my proposed route,
which the agent had given me, lay on the
seat beside me.
 "Can I see your map, Miss?" was his first
question.
 I looked up in his face as I handed it to
him. I am no dull student of human na-
ture, and there was an expression in his
eyes which I disliked. But thinking there
could be no harm in talking for a while with
a man as old as my father, whom the next
train would bear from my sight forever, I 
civilly answered his questions as to where I
had been and which way I was going.
 "Do you like teaching?" he asked, after
a while.
 I told him that I did not like it, on ac-
count of the ignorance and prejudices of the
people as to the true method of imparting
instruction.
 "Of course," he asserted, "it must be a 
most wearisome business. Now, how would
you like a position in one of the depart-
ments. Post Office, Treasury, or Agricultur-
al? I am a member of Congress. Just
jot down my name in your book, Hon. W.
-C.-"
 I will not write the name in full for the
sake of the sweet daughter whose pictured
face I once saw. If any man had dared to 
make to that daughter the proposals which
that miscreant afterwards made to me, the
father would have promptly shot him down
on the street. But to return to my story.
I told him I would very much like a posi-
tion in one of the "departments," and if he
would secure it for me I should be under
lasting obligations to him.
	"I should like to have you down in Wash-
ington," he said, jocosely. "My wife and
daughter are absent in Europe; the latter is
finishing her education in Heidelburg."
	So I gave him my address, and we parted 
on very good terms. Shortly after my re-
turn home, he opened a cautious correspond-
ence with me in reference to the situation
in one of "the departments." The Agricul-
tural Bureau seemed to be the department
over which he had the most influence. Af-
ter a certain amount of correspondence he 
seemed to think the victim was ready to fall
into his hands, and he wrote in this wise:
	"I have secured you a light, remunera-
tive position, sorting seeds, etc. You need
not trouble yourself about board and cloth-
ing and such, for I am going to attend to all
that myself. I have taken the dearest lit-
tle cottage just out of the city, and there we
will enjoy each other's society all alone. I 
have arranged to keep my family in Europe
for another year. Next summer we will
spend at my cottage at Long Branch. You
will figure there as my niece. Of course,
your position in the department is a mere
"ruse" to keep down suspicion and save your
name."
	The Honorable Congressman has enjoyed
his cottage alone, or has had a dozen differ-
ent mistresses in it for aught I know to the
contrary.
	Now this is a true story. Suppose that I
had been the foolish and inexperienced girl
that he took me for? What would have
been my fate had I yielded to his tempta-
tion? Might it not have been the Fair
tradegy over again? About the time of his
desertion and the restitution of all things,
what wonder if he had departed suddenly
with a bullet through his cruel heart or
wicked brain?
	Thousands of men in their secret souls to-
day believe that woman was created to be
the slave of their passions, the creature of 
their pleasures. And such men fear to place
the ballot in her hands, for fear that a check
may be given to their debauchery and in-
temperance.--Baltimore Correspondent of
Woman's Journal.


For the EXPONENT.
THE WORLD IS WHAT WE MAKE IT.

 I wonder if we fully realize this all im-
portant fact. Have we ever paused in our
wild career long enough to even think
about it?
We sometimes murmur at Fate because
we are not as wealthy, or as talented, or as
beautiful, as some one else, forgetting for
the moment, that God, in His infinite mercy
and all wise providence; has created us as
we are for some wise purpose.  As for 
wealth, though we consider it a blessing, it
is transitory and liable to "take unto itself
wings, and fly away;" therefore, we ought
not to value that too highly.
Beauty, of the outward form and face
merely, is also transitory.  Yet there is a
higher, nobler beauty, that emanates from
a meek spirit and a kind and tender heart,
that will last as long as life itself, only be-
coming more pure and chaste as we grow
older, and coming forth from the trials it is
called to undergo even fairer and more pure
than when it started out in its infancy.
Of course it is conceded that our success
in life depends, to a great extent, on the


higher talents we possess, but surely we
ought not to censure Dame Nature, or ac-
cuse her of partiality, in not endowing
us with the higher talents, while those we 
already possess lie dormant, growing rusty
with neglect.
Besides, who knows of the undeveloped
genius in our possession, only waiting for 
something to transpire that will cause it to 
arouse from its lethargy and burst with re-
splendent brightness on an unsuspecting,
incredulous world!  We may approach, even
surpass, the bright star we have held up be-
fore our eyes as a model of perfection.
It behooves us then, my young friends, to
exercise our latent energies; for though we
may fall far short of the mark we have set
before ourselves, it were better than to at-
tempt nothing and accomplish nothing.  If 
we wish for friends we may have them by 
manifesting a gentle spirit, and being kind
and good.  If we desire wealth we may ac-
quire that by laboring for it, though it is
doubtful if we keep it long, as is proven by
every day examples in real life.  People
who have spent strength and every energy
of body and soul to amass a great fortune,
but after they have acquired the glittering
god they worship, have found their trea-
sures, alas for their happiness! swept from
them by one quick turn of the wheel of for-
tune, and they are left to die in poverty and
obscurity. Thus we see that wealth does
not constitnte happiness.
Education, I am happy to say, is, in this 
glorious Republic, free to all.  We can have
it, not merely for the asking, but by aiming
for it, and working for it.
Furthermore, I will guarantee to all, the 
love and respect of numerous friends, if
they will follow my plan, which is, form
your basis on true principles, place your aim
in life high, and work for a purpose.
BITTER-SWEET.


EARNED OR BESTOWED?
In our census reports no account is taken
of women,—wives and mothers who do no
work outside their homes.  They swell the 
numbers of non-producers, and searchers of 
statistics in connection with questions of 
political economy, take no account of them.
And does any one think that the toil of a 
woman who between twenty-five and forty,
bears and rears four children, giving them
the usual care of mothers, is less valuable to 
the state than that of her husband, who
works as a carpenter at two dollars and a 
half a day, and by economy of himself and 
wife saves enough after buying the bread,
meat and clothes for the six, to buy a cot-
tage and lot, of which he holds the title
deeds.  Again, is her labor less valuable to 
the state than that of a single woman. who 
works in a kitchen or makes paper boxes in
a factory, and also saves enough to buy a 
house and lot of which she holds the title
deeds?
Let us not be deceived; the wife and 
mother is supported by her husband; works
for her board and clothes with such love as
she can command thrown in, and is called a
non-producer.  It is desirable that her posi-
tion should be a more independent and bet-
ter rewarded one?  In other words, is it de-
sirable that matrimony should be the ref-
uge of women who cannot do better for
themselves? or should it be the opportu-
nity for the strongest, noblest aud best of 
women, to give their best to the society in
which they live? These are some of the 
problems which human intelligence and 
wisdom must sooner or later solve, under
penalties.—Ex.


76			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
CORNELIA M. HORNE, Business Manager
Pu[-]shed semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Ter[--]s.  One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates.  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
[---] $2.00. per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office. corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a. m. to 5 p. m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
Address all business communications to
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY. OCT. 15, 1875


CONFERENCE ITEMS.
THE FORTY-Fifth Semi-annual Conference
now just passed, has been one long to be re-
membered by the Latter-day Saints.  It was
held five days commencing Wednesday morn-
ing Oct. sixth, and adjourning Sunday after-
noon October tenth.  There were present of 
the first Presidency, President Brigham Young
and Daniel H. Wells. Of the Twelve, all ex-
cept Elder Albert Carrington.  The meetings
were well attended each day, and on Sunday it
is said there was the largest congregation ever
assembled in this city.  President Young him-
self preached several times during the confer-
ence instructing the people in regard to the 
United Order, and many other doctrinal points
President Wells and also different members of 
the quorum of the Twelve delivered excellent
discourses at different times during the confer-
ence, several of the returned missionaries,
President Joseph Young and others.  On the 
third day of the conference Elder George Q
Cannon read a long discourse by President
Brigham Young upon the resurrection, after
which Elder Woodruff made some excellent
and well-timed remarks upon that interesting
subject.  On the morning of the fourth day of 
conference the new tabernacle was dedicated
by prayer, written for the occasion, and read
by Elder John Taylor.  This prayer seemed to 
comprise every subject and idea, which should
have been associated with the dedication, and 
was a most perfect combination of eloquent
and expressive language.  In the afternoon of 
the same day, quite a large number of mission-
aries were called from the different counties
and settlements.  Among them were many 
young elders.  On Sunday, the fifth and last
day of the conference a few more missionaries
were called.  The whole of the preaching dur-
ing the conference has been of a nature
calculated to arouse the people from their
indifference to their religon, and inspire
them with renewed zeal in carrying out
the divine principles, revealed from heav-
en for the establishing of the kingdom of God
upon the earth, and the redemption of man-
kind.  The spirit of God seemed to rest down
upon the speakers and influence them in warn-
ing the people of the consequences of continu-
ing in  following after the fashions of Babylon,
which must inevitably fall, according to the 
predictions of ancient and modern prophets.
The music and singing during the conference
were particularly elevating and inspiring,
the selections of hymns and anthems well cho-
sen and effectively rendered.  The weather was
most propitious, and considering the vast
amount of people and of  little children every
thing passed off admirably and those who


listened understandingly, must certainly con-
sider themselves blessed indeed to be able to
hear so much truth and instruction, from the
mouths of the servants of God.


HOME AFFAIRS.
THE HANDEL and Hayden Society which 
has been organized in this city, have been pre-
paring themselves, we understand, to give a  
concert about the middle of November next.
THE ALLEGHANIANS closed their entertain-
ments in Salt Lake Saturday evening 9th ult.,
they drew tolerably full houses; the Matinee on 
Saturday afternoon was crowded and the ap-
plause was general.
A SOLICITATION was tendered by several gen-
tlemen of this city to Mr. Charles Vivian, to 
give another of his entertainments at the thea-
tre, before he returns to San Francisco; he ac-
cordingly complied with their request Thurs-
day last.
IN CONSEQUENCE of Chief Justice White
not having arrived in time to preside at the 
opening of the October term of the Third Dis-
trict Court, Monday the 11th inst., Gov. Emery
re-assigned Associate Justice Boreman to this
district, temporarily.
ELDER R. V. Morris in charge of the Wyo-
ming company of emigrants, arrived in this 
city with the company all safe and in good 
condition, Tuesday Oct. 5th.  They have had 
a speedy and pleasant journey.
THE FOURTEENTH Ward Literary Associa-
tion, re-opened Monday evening, Oct. 4th, at
7 o'clock in the Assembly Rooms, and will hold
a regular series of exercises every week on 
Monday evening, during the season.  The pub-
lic are invited to attend.
A METEOR was seen in this city on the even-
ing of October 12th, just about ten o'clock. It
was in a Westerly direction and descended in a 
North-Westerly at an angle of about 45[degree symbol]. When
first seen it seemed a pale blue tint, but after-
ward appeared a bright glowing crimson and fi-
nally exploded with a sparkling and resplend-
ent flash.
WE HAVE received from Mrs. William Wag-
staff three beautiful bouquets of a variety of 
flowers, among which were many colored ele-
gant dahlias, verbenas, honey-suckles and ge-
raniums, with ferns, grasses, etc, which added
much to their beauty; we accord the lady our 
most sincere thanks for the same, and also the 
luscious peaches which accompanied them and 
we shall not forget the pleasing compliment.
MONDAY OCT. 11th, there was a cheap excur-
sion to Lake Point, and it was well-timed to se-
cure a large party, and people from all quarters
availed themselves of the opportunity to enjoy
it, some of the party took a sea-bath, but the 
water was rather too cool for most people.  The
accommodations at the landing under the new
proprietors "The Southworth's" are very highly
spoken of.
THE DESERET Teachers Association held ad-
journed meetings conference week in the Uni-
versity Building, and elected their regular offi-
cers for the year; President, O H. Riggs; Vice
President, John R. Park; Secretary, F. M. 
Bishop; Treasurer, Karl G. Maeser.  After the 
transaction of necessary business for the season,
the Association adjourned "sine die".
THE MASSIVE and elegant front for the new
Deseret Bank Building arrived last week and 
has been put up.  The front of the story
above will be composed of brick and will be
similar in design to that of the South side of 
the building; the work is rapidly being for-
warded and it is expected it will be completed
before winter sets in.  The side and rear walls
of the new Co-operative Store are now up,
ready for the roof timbers; the iron front is ex-
pected very soon.  These two large new struct-
ures for public purposes are, besides being sol-
idly constructed, quite an addition to the ap-
pearance of the street.
A VERY elegant monument has been erected to 
the memory of the late Prest. Heber C. Kimball,
in the private burying ground belonging to that 
family.  The monument has a granite base and 
surbase; the body is formed into four gothic
panels of white veined marble on which the in-
scription is cut.  The monument is all of home
workmanship and is a fine specimen of artistic
skill.  The inscription is composed of about 1,-
700 letters and gives a concise account of the 
birth, life, travels ministry and death of this
distinguished man.  President Brigham Young
has also added a testimonial in his own words
which reads as follows: "He was a man of as 
much integrity, I presume as any man who 
ever lived upon the earth.  I have been person-
ally acquainted with him for forty-three years,
and I can testify that he has been a man of 
truth, a man of benevolence, a man that was 
to be trusted." On one of the panels is an in-
scription to the memory of Vilate Murray wife
of President Kimball who died Oct. 22nd, 1867.
MR. E. W. Tullidge who recently returned 
from New York, where he has been making ar-
rangements for the publication of his new work,
entitled the, "The Founders of Utah," informs
us that he is convinced the book he has been 
contemplating writing, and which he intends
bringing out immediately after this present
work, will be very popular.  He intends com-
prising and compiling in that work sketches
from the lives of the most prominent women
in this church and Territory.  Woman's work,
mission, sphere etc. are now extensively dis-
cussed, and people interested in these subjects
are especially curious to know something of the 
lives, motives, etc. of women who live in plu-
ral marriage, from one of their own people.
Mr. Tullidge also informs us that his last play
"Ben Israel" will shortly be brought out in 
Boston, by Miss Katharine Rogers and Mr.
Vincent.  We sincerely hope Mr. Tullidge may
realize some pecuniary remuneration from 
his works, as he has labored assiduously
in his vocation, and is certainly a brilliant,
pleasing and attractive writer.
THE VISIT of his Excellency President U.
S. Grant to this city, which took place recently,
was one of special interest and importance to
the people of this Territory.  His position, be-
ing the most elevated one in the nation, enti-
tles him to the highest respect and the most
distinguished attentions.  As soon as it was
authenticated that President Grant and party
were really coming to Salt Lake City, the City
Council held a special meeting, adopting reso-
lutions to give him a courteous, hearty and 
welcome reception, appropriate to his position.
Invitations were accordingly issued to federal,
civil and military officers, and some private
citizens, to constitute a party of welcome to go 
on a special train to Ogden to meet his Excel-
lency, and escort him to the city.  The party
left this city at half past nine, and arrived in 
Ogden at eleven o'clock.  The depot at Ogden
was thronged with people, anxious to avail
themselves of the opportunity of seeing the 
Chief Executive of the American Republic.
The special train on which the President was
traveling arrived in Ogden about half past
twelve o'clock.  His Excellency was standing
upon the platform of the car; the crowds of


people waved their hats as he approached,
which he gracefully acknowledged by taking
off his hat and bowing. The Ogden brass
brand welcomed him with their choicest se-
lections of music. Hon. George Q. Cannon, as
spokesman of the committee, approached Presi-
dent Grant, greeted him, and informed him of
the delegation, and presented to him the com-
mittee and other gentleman who accompanied
them. Soon after the train left Ogden, Presi-
dent Brigham Young, Hon. John Taylor,
Joseph F. Smith, Brigham Young, jr., and the
other gentlemen and ladies of the special train
party were presented to President Grant, who
stood upon the platform of the car, and were
also introduced to the President's party,
Mrs. President Grant, Col. Fred. Grant and
wife, Gen. O. E. Babcock, Hon. Hamilton Borie
ex-Secretary of the Navy, wife and niece,
and Governor Thayer of Wyoming. President
Young's meeting with President Grant was
particularly pleasant and cordial, and President 
Young, in his most happy manner, welcomed
his Excellency to Salt Lake City, and expressed
his desire that his visit might be enjoyable.
The President was met at the Salt Lake depot
by a long train of carriages, and the Sabbath
School children were arranged from the depot
to the Temple block; the most excellent order
prevailed everywhere. In the course of the
afternoon the President appeared upon the
balcony of the Walker House and was intro-
duced to the populace assembled there by Gov-
ernor Emery. On Monday morning President
Grant with his party, Gov. Emery and others,
visited the New Tabernacle; one incident con-
nected with this visit we wish to notice, which
is, Mrs. President Grant, when in the Taberna-
cle while the organ was playing, was deeply
affected, and her heart was drawn out in prayer
and she remarked afterwards that she 
then offered up a prayer to God in behalf of 
this people, "but remember," said she, "it was
a Methodist prayer." After their visit to the 
Tabernacle they drove up to Arsenal Hill to
get a good view of the city, then to Camp
Douglas. The President refused to receive any 
public demonstration. but said his visit was a 
private one, and did not warrant any firing of
cannons, martial music, etc. At one o'clock in
the afternoon he gave a public reception at the
Walker House, and thousands of people were
introduced and had the honor of shaking hands
with him. On the way to the depot President
Grant and party called upon Hon. Wm. Jen-
nings, where they were cordially received, and
refreshments suitable to the occasion served to
them. A select party of ladies and gentlemen 
accompanied them to Ogden. The President's 
private car was decorated with choice flowers 
in a tasteful and ornamental manner; the word
"Welcome" artistically arranged over the mir-
ror. President Grant, Mrs. Grant, Mrs. Fred.
Grant, Gen. Babcock, Ex-Secretary Borie, Gov-
ernor Thayer, Miss Borie and Mrs. Governor
Emery came and sat in the car with the Mor-
mon ladies and gentlemen, and were as socia-
ble and friendly as possible; Mr. Cannon very
politely introduced those ladies who had not
before been presented to the President and his
party. Everything passed off pleasantly; the
President and Mrs. Grant, in bidding the party
good bye, very graciously thanked the ladies
who decorated the car. When the President's 
car was ready to start, his Excellency appeared
upon the platform accompanied by his wife
and some others of their party; hearty cheers
resounded from all sides and the ladies waved
their handkerchiefs in token of adieu. Every
courtesy and attention possible, in so short a
time, was extended, to the President and party
during their brief stay.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPLINTERS.
PERSONAL.
The Prince of Wales will leave Italy Oct.
16th, for India, and will visit Athens on the 
way......King Louis the Second of Bravaria
proposes to celebrate by a general amnesty
the dedication of the monument erected in 
memory of his father......Boucicault is en-
gaged to appear in Philadelphia during the 
Centennial in the "Shaughraun"......General
Butler delivered a lecture on finance and 
currency before the Board of Trade, N. Y.,
Oct. 14......King Kalakaua is reported quite
ill in Honolulu......Mr. Robert Dale Owen is 
gradually improving in health......Tennyson
with his family, are going to make a tour of
the continent......Prof. Leo, of Berlin, has
been engaged for several years preparing a 
new variorum edition of Shakespeare......
Gladstone says he will never resume the 
Liberal leadership.
FOREIGN.
Kossuth was recently defeated as candi-
date for the diet of Hungary......The Egyp-
tian government is making preparations to 
represent the products of their country at
the Centennial......There has been a hea-
vy typhoon at Chee-Foo, China, recent-
ly, which wrecked three European and 
many Chinese vessels several lives were
lost......The excise returns of Great Britain
show that $600,000,000 are annually spent in 
alcohol etc., and more than one-half of it by
the laboring classes......It is reported that an
offensive and defensive treaty has been con-
cluded between China and Burmah......The
military affairs of Cuba are almost at a 
standstill, the recent severe storms there be-
ing one of the causes......M. Anspach, chief
magistrate of Brussels, is gradually trans-
forming that city into a miniature Paris; he
has offered the architect who will build the 
finest house in the Boulevard, a prize of 
1,000 francs......The Russian climate is said
to be materially changing on account of the 
destruction of the large forests--being cold-
er in winter and dryer in summer......It is 
reported that the cholera is subsiding in Sy-
ria; there has been nearly 300 deaths in one
week......Berlin has 140,000 working women 
whose lot is similar to that of working wo-
men all over the world.
GENERAL.
The new Jersey coast this year has yield-
ed a crop of oysters estimated at 4,000,000
bushels......The eighty-one ton gun, com-
pleted at Woolwich, Eng., has been tested
recently; it is for the iron-clad Inflexible,
and the charge consisted of 250 lbs. powder,
1,300 lbs. shot......The house formerly in-
habited by Dante, in Florence, has been 
purchased by that city, and will be fitted up
in the style of the 14th century......A bust
of President Lincoln has been ordered for
the public library at Springfield, Ill......It is 
said that Chicago will have the new-mint
......All the money required for the women's
exhibition building at the Centennial, $28,
000, has been raised.....3,000 persons at-
tended the Operatives Mass Meeting in Fall
river recently......Boston University School
of Theology has just received an accession
of about fifty new students from twenty dif-
ferent colleges.


COMPARISON.

	We through the love we [---] our children
subject them to the laws of [--]uity and jus-
tice one with another; although we dearly
love them yet when they arrive at a proper


age, we send them away from us to school, to
learn wisdom and to get knowledge and un-
derstanding that their faculties and minds
may expand and they become men and wo-
men of principle, and prepared for useful-
ness to take their parents place, or a higher
one in society. Now we know our children
must labor hard in their studies, must pass
through many trials difficult to bear, yet we
suffer it for their good, believing the old
adage that, "experience is the best teacher"
&c. God, when our spirits were living with
Him in His glory as obedient children,
through His great love for us created this
beautiful earth for our inheritance and place
of tuition; placing before us good and evil;
but man refused the good which was obe-
dience and chose the evil thus alienating
himself from a just and holy Father which
resulted in His being driven out of His
presence subject to death. As we parents
try to use means to bring back our disobe-
dient alienated children to do right that we
may enjoy their presence so God spared His
only begotten Son for a propitiation for the
sins of the whole world; that all through
faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and obedience
to His requirements might be brought back
into His presence and share in His glory,
honor and power. We sisters through faith
in the Lord Jesus Christ, baptism for the re-
mission of our sins and the laying on of
hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost are in-
itiated into the family of God, we become
His daughters, and if we continue obedient
to all His requirements made known to us
by our prophet and seer we shall ultimately
be brought back into His presence to share
our Father's glory.
	In taking a view of these truths which
we are (or should be) all of us well acquaint-
ed with, showing our relationship to God
and our entire dependence on Him for life,
and every blessing of life; when we realize
that the trials of life are only chidings for
our good, we feel our strength renewed to
bear up under these trials, knowing that
"He doth not willingly afflict the children
of men," and that "Whom the Lord loveth
He chasteneth" and these light afflictions
although they seem grievious to us at pres-
ent shall prove to us a far more exceeding
weight of glory." Let us become as little
children, and humbly submit to all His chid-
ings, knowing that His love for us is far
greater than ours for our children.
					EXCELETTE.


THE GIRL TO COME.—She will be of
some use in the world, will cook her own
food, will earn a living, and will not die an
old maid. The coming girl will not wear
the Grecian bend, dance the German, ignore
all possibilities of knowing how to work,
will not endeavor to break the hearts of un-
sophisticated young men, will spell correctly,
understand English before she affects
French, will preside with equal grace at the
piano and the washboard, will spin more
yarn for the house than for the street, will
darn her old stockings and know how to
make dough-nuts. The coming girl will
walk five miles a day, if need be, to keep
her cheeks in a glow; will mind her health,
her physical development, and her aged
mother; will adopt a costume both sensible
and conducive to health, will not confound
hypocrisy with politeness, will have the
courage to cut an unwelcome acquaintance,
will not think that refinement is French du-
plicity, that assumed politeness, where hate
dwells in the heart, is better than outspoken
condemnation, and will not regard the end
of her very being to have a beau.—Ex.


78			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.

I WILL TRY.

	What a little word I'll try is, but what a
comprehensive meaning it conveys; if we
would always keep this before our minds,
we would accomplish many things that we
do not otherwise. If we try perseveringly
we are almost sure to succeed; there are
many times things placed before us,
which seem hard to do, when if we
will go to work with a trying spirit and
a prayerful heart to God and ask him to help
us accomplish our duty we will be sure to
conquer. If there is anything for us to
learn and we think our task is hard, we
must put away all doubts and try with a
persevering spirit until we have accomplish-
ed our purpose; if we are always found try-
ing to do all things that are required of us
in the kingdom of God, we will never fal-
ter. If we find it hard to keep any cove-
nant we have made, we must be humble
and ask the Lord to help us, and if we do
this with a humble heart we will have new
vigor and feel astonished to see the differ-
ence in placing confidence in God to guide
us aright. "God's ways are not our ways,"
but we ought always to be willing to bring
ourselves into subjection to His will and we
will come off conquerors at the last if we
wait with patience.
	It is an old saying but a true one, that "the
Lord will help those who help themselves,"
then if we want a complete salvation in the
kingdom of God, let us try to do all things
in compliance with His will, for we will
never get what we do not work for. If we
work for the blessings of God, we will get
them for God is just and He will give us what
we merit, can we ask for any more? No, 
not with a clear conscience; then it behooves
us to keep watch for the kingdom of God
and travel with it, for it is hard to catch up
if we get behind, and if we get too far back
we will never attain the same position for
the kingdom of God is growing and will not 
wait for us, and those who persevere will
leave us behind them. Let onward be our
motto, living uprightly before our Heavenly
Father, doing our duty as His children and
setting an example before the world; that it
can be said of us, the Latter-day Saints are
true faithful christians, walking in the path
the Saviour walked in. Let us try to live
our religion and do all things with a cheer-
ful spirit and we will feel happy and carry a
light heart.	
		S. A. GRAHAM.

S. L. City.


ST. GEORGE, Sept. 19th, 1875.
SISTER E. R. SNOW:
Minutes of the Annual Meeting of the St.
George Relief Society held August 31st, 18-
75.  After the usual exercises a report of 
the business of the past year was read as
follows:  Donations received by the visit-
ing Teachers, consisting mostly of clothing
and remnants $85,00, cash, $6,55; disbursed
to the destitute in medicine, groceries and 
clothing for the living, and burial for the 
dead 40, 75; $100 has been donated to the 
Temple building at this place, being mostly
orders on the Tithing Office received from
brethren as payment for socks bedding and 
work done. 57 pairs of socks, have also 
been knitted for the same purpose.
Last year, $100 was also donated, mostly
in clothing and bedding for laborers on the 
Temple.
On hand now in the Treasury, in goods
and manufactured articles $135.  In Capi-
tal Stock in the Rio Virgin M. Co, $150;
in capital stock in the St. George Branch of


the United Order, for hats made and fur-
nished $23,78; credit on the books of the St.
George Tithing Office $75,75; amount due
the Society for goods sold $50; donated to
Indians in clothing, 75,75. We have also
one share in the co-operative store.
	The reading was followed by Br. Snow,
advising the Teachers to seek earnestly the
wants of the needy and sick lest some one
might suffer, and urged the President and
her Counselors to empty the treasury if
need be, and trust to our Heavenly Father
for more. He was followed by A. M. Jack-
son on the same subject, when President
Snow proposed the calling of Home Mission-
aries from the members of the Society who
should hold meetings in St. George and vi-
cinity.
	The following Sisters were named and
voted as Home Missionaries. Anna L.
Ivins, Hannah E. Crosby, Minerva Snow,
Elizabeth Beatty, Elizabeth Whitmore, Liz-
zie Calkins, Marietta Calkins, Annie Wood-
bury Hannah Nixon, Sarah A. Church and
Matilda C. McArthur.
	Roll called and Benediction by Jesse W.
Crosby.
	I will add that our roll numbers two hun-
dred and fourteen members; the average
number in attendance being from thirty to
fifty in summer, more in winter.
	I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
				CAROLINE A. JACKSON
			Sec'y St. George R. Society.
	P. S.--At our meeting of September 17th,
most of the Home Missionaries were pres-
ent and bore faithful testimonies to the truth
of the work in which we are engaged as
Latter-day Saints, and expressed gratitude
for the organization of these meetings.
	The following officers were sustained:
Anna L. Ivins, President; Hannah E. Cros-
by, First Counselor; Minerva Snow, Second
Counselor; Hannah G. Perkins, President
of Teachers; Sarah A. Church, Treasurer;
Caroline A. Jackson, Secretary.
							C. A. J.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS Charlotte Cushman is said to be so
feeble as to require constant assistance and 
support.
	MISS Bessie Egglesfield, a young lady law
student, was permitted to practice in the
Circuit Court at Terre Haute, (Ind,) 8th ult.
	THE "airy, fairy Lillian," enshrined in
verse by Tennyson, is now Mrs. Rawnesley,
and the happy mother of seven children.
	MRS. Gould, the founder of the Italio-
American school at Rome, is dead. Her re-
mains have been forwarded to America.
	MRS. Mary Mapes Dodge has returned
home from her summering in the Adiron-
dacks with her health entirely restored.
She has resumed her editorial duties on the 
St. Nicholas.
	MISS Annie Oliver, the girl preacher, of
whom much has been said and written re-
cently, was born in New York and graduat-
ed at Rutgers Female College. She says
she preaches because she loves to, and be-
cause she feels she has been called to the
ministry. In the crusade against liquor
in Ohio she commenced at the Temperance
meetings as she says, to talk to knots of
men and soon gained confidence to address
a throng. After making up her mind to en-
gage in this work she concluded she must
prepare herself by study like the other sex;
she applied first to the Congregational semi-
naries (which was her own church) then to


the Presbyterian but they were all too dig-
nified and exclusive. She says she applied
to fourteen in all, at last she found a univer-
sity in Boston which accepted her as a stu-
dent. Oberlin College allowed her to study
the languages, and the professors she says
thought they were doing a great thing for
her and said no other church would do as
much.


For the EXPONENT
WHY WAS NOT I AN AUTHORESS

	I am sure I've tried hard enough. But
I am subject to such strange flights of fancy
it is almost impossible for me to write two
sentences connectedly on any particular sub-
ject. Many and many a time have I sat
down with pen, ink and paper, resolving
that "this time, I will write something in-
teresting." But alas! for my resolves; it
has proven as fallible as all former efforts;
before I have written two lines on my sub-
ject, I find myself a hopeless wanderer in a 
labyrinth of ideas, without being able as
some of my companions are, of bringing
order out of chaos. At other times I have
written a lengthy article, and after having
read it carefully, decide in my own mind,
that "this will do, if I can only find a name
for it;" but there it is again,! not being on
any particular subject, I find it very difficult
to obtain a suitable title for my productions.
Who will wonder then, that after having
passed through all these trying circumstan-
ces, I have almost resolved in my own mind
to write no more, but to select some occupa-
tion better adapted to my temperament,
which my mother often tells me is very—
				HIGHTY TIGHTY.


FLOWERS.

	THE soul that suffers is stronger than the
soul that rejoices.—Elizabeth Shepherd.
	MANY actions, like the Rhone, have two
sources—one pure, the other impure.—J. C.
Hare.
	HE who does a base thing in zeal for his
friend burns the golden thread that ties their
hearts together.
	AS fortune often hides under the mean-
est trades in life the greatest virtues, so are
the greatest geniuses found frequently lodg-
ed by nature in the most deformed and mis-
shapen bodies.
	IT is a good and safe rule to sojourn in
every place as if you meant to spend your
life there, never omitting an opportunity of
doing a kindness or speaking a true word or
making a friend. Seeds thus sown by the
wayside often bring forth an abundant har-
vest.
	LIFE, according to an Arabic proverb, is
composed of two parts—that which is past,
a dream, and that which is to come, a wish.
	IT is never too late with us so long as we
are still aware of our faults and bear them
impatiently—so long as aspirations eager for
conquest stir within us.
	I KNOW of but two beautiful things: the
starry heavens above my head, and the sense
of duty within my heart.—Kent.
	THEY who are most weary of life, and
are most unwilling to die, are such as have
lived to no purpose—who have rather
breathed than lived.


THE value of the estate of the late ex-
President Johnson proves to be about $175,-
000.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S ADMIRATION OF POWER.

	One of the distinctive mental traits in
women springs out of the relation of the
sexes as ajusted to the welfare of the race.
I refer to the effect which the manifestation
of power of every kind in men has in de-
termining the attachments of women. To
this admiration for power is ascribable the
fact, sometimes commented upon as strange,
that women will continue attached to men
who use them ill, but whose brutality goes
along with power, more than they will con-
tinue attached to weaker men who use them
well. With this admiration of power, pri-
marily having this function, there goes the 
admiration of power in general, which is
more marked in women than in men, and
shows itself both theologically and politi-
cally. That the emotion of awe aroused by
contemplating whatever suggests transcend-
ent force or capacity, which constitutes re-
ligious feeling, is strongest in women, is
proved in many years. We read that
among the Greeks the women were more
religiously excitable than the men. Sir
Rutherford Alcock tell us of the Japanese,
that "In the temples it is very rare to see
any congregation except women and child-
ren; the men, at any time, are very few,
and those generally of the lower classes."
Of the pilgrims to the Temple of Jugger-
naut it is stated that "at least five-sixths,
and often nine-tenths of them are females."
And we are also told of the Sikhs, that the
women believe in more gods than the men
do. Which facts; coming from different ra-
ces and times, sufficiently show us that the
like fact, familiar to us in Roman Catholic
countries, and to some extent at home, is
not, as many think, due to the education of
women, but has a deeper cause in natural
character. And to this same cause is in
like manner ascribed the greater respect felt
by women for all embodiments and symbols
of authority, governmental and social.—
Herbert Spencer.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR SISTERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY:
	I feel myself highly honored with a name
among you, and for the privilege of address-
ing you through the the EXPONENT.
	I consider I am addressing the Daughters
of Zion, children of the living and true
God.
	The world may boast of her high ranks
of nobility, her ladies, duchesses, queens,
and empresses, although their apparel and
equipage are the most beautiful of the
productions of earth, adorned with gold,
silver, pearls and diamonds, and they are
honored by the whole world, and almost
worshipped by their subjects, their minds
are filled with care and anxiety: they know
if they are most fortunate, they can live but
a few short years before they must lay down
their mortal bodies, and with them all the 
glory and honor which, through the bless-
ing of God, has been conferred upon them
by mortals, and lie as low as the lowest.
	Not so with the rank, glory and honor of 
the daughters of Zion; it is not conferred
on them by mortal man, but by God their
Father, as a reward for their obedience to
His requirements; which glory, power and
honor is everlasting in the presence of God
their Father and His Son Jesus Christ.
	Yes, and with them we shall inherit the 
earth with all its riches, and live under the
peaceful reign of Christ, "when righteous-
ness shall cover the earth as the waters do
the face of the deep." Let us praise God


for His loving kindness to us, and for His
tender mercies over all the works of His
hands. While we humbly compare His
dealings with the human family (His own
offspring formed in His own image, pos-
sessed of faculties like His own in embryo,
yet through disobedience alienated from
his presence) I say, let us compare the love
of our heavenly Father, as evinced in his
dealings with the human family, and ex-
plained by divine revelation, with our love
for, and our dealings with our own offspring
in the flesh.
						EXCELETTE.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
		AN OLD MAID'S PROTEST.

 I suppose you men, "lords of creation,"
entertain the idea, that because some peo-
ple remain single and continue to remain
single for an unlimited length of time (and
these persons happening to be of the femi-
nine persuasion) that it is because they nev-
er have had the opportunity of changing
their conditions in life. Let me hasten to 
disabuse you of these false impressions, and
assure you that such is not the case, but
that it is possible, absolutely possible for
some persons to exist, even when debarred
the exquisite pleasure of the charming
society of the sterner sex.
	I have no doubt but that you will greet
this with a cynical smile, as your conceit
and vanity are developed to such an extent
as to prevent you from accepting it as truth.
But such it is. You may call me "Wo-
man's rights advocate," "Blue stocking," or
any other tender epithet, I care not. I am
independent, and not afraid because I am a
woman to express my views on any subject.
You may think I am only joking; but I warn
you not to test the truth of my remarks by
proposing to me, for I have such an utter
detestation for the whole sex that it is with
the greatest difficulty that I can treat the
men with common civility. And don't
think I have been crossed in love either,
for I hav'n't.
	THE OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	As soon as a boil becomes hard and inflamed
paint it with iodine. The poison will not be scat-
tered, but will be absorbed by it.
	To Cure a Ringworm.—Paint it with iodine a
few times and it will entirely destroy exery ves-
tige of it.
	For Consumptive tendency or hemorrhage of
the lungs, never overtax the system nor exhaust it
by excesses, eat plenty of wholesome, nutritious
food, sleep eight hours every night, and enlarge
and expand the chest by the right sort of physical
culture and an out of door life. If sedentary in
habits, then be sure to take systematic exercise
daily.
	To Stop Bleeding at the Nose.—It is worth
while to know how to stop the bleeding from the
nose when it becomes excessive. If the finger is
pressed firmly upon thn little artery that supplies
the blood to the side of the face affected, the result
is accomplished. The two small arteries branch-
ing up from the main arteries on each side of the
neck, and passing over the outside of the jawbone,
supply the face with blood. If the nose bleeds
from the right nostril for example, pass the finger
along the edge of the right jaw till the beating of
the artery is felt. Press hard upon it, and the
bleeding will cease. Continue the pressure five
minutes, until the ruptured vessels in the nose
have time to contract.


What is in the Bed-room?—If two persons are
to occupy a bed-room during the night, let them
step on a weighing scale as they retire, and then
again in the morning, and they will find that their
actual weight is at least a pound less in the morn-
ing. Frequently there will be a loss of two or
more pounds, and the average loss throughout the
year will be a pound of matter, which has gone off
from their bodies, partly from the lungs, and part-
ly through the pores of the skin. The escaped mat-
ter is carbonic acid and decayed animal matter of
poisonous exhalation. This is diffused through the
air in part, and part absorbed by the bed-clothes. If
a single ounce of wood-cotton be burned in a room,
it will so completely saturate the air with smoke
that one can hardly breathe, though there can
hardly be one ounce of foreign matter in the air.
If an ounce of cotton be burned every half an
hour during the night, the air will be kept con-
tinually saturated with smoke, unless there be an
open window or door for its escape. Now, the
sixteen ounces of smoke thus formed is far less
poisonous than the sixteen exhalations from the
lungs and bodies of two persons who have lost a
pound in weight during the eight hours of sleeping;
for, while the dry smoke is mainly taken into the
lungs, the damp odors from the body are absorbed
both into the lungs and into the pores of the whole
body. Need more be said to show the importance
of having bedrooms well ventilated, and of thor-
oughly airing the sheets, coverlids and mattresses
in the morning, before packing them up in the
form of a neatly made bed.


MOTHER'S BOY.

	Mother, cherish your boy. Respect him,
and encourage him to talk with you. Ask
questions about things that interest him.
Caress and kiss him, and prove yourself the
best friend by showing your love. How is
your little boy to know that you love him,
if you never fondle him? if you continually
repel his advances.
	Many mothers cease to show their love
as soon as a child is four or five years old.
Little boys after this get fewer kisses, be-
cause, frequently they soiled their hands
and faces in play, and come in noisy, warm
and dirty, not just the sweet cheeks and lips
we loved to kiss, and instead of putting
back the matted curls, and with a little
cold water bathing the hot face, we say, go
away with you, dirty boys, I don't want to
look at you. How much better fold him to
your heart, kiss him and send him away
happy. I have not said indulge your boy,
but make him love you.
	You need not suffer him to correct you,
when older persons are talking. Teach him
to be silent in company, unless drawn out
by your guests, but alone at home, make
him your companion. If you hold his love
till he is fifteen, he will always cherish you.
Up to that age, many boys have little real
love or respect for their mothers, and the
fault lies nearer the mother than the son.—
Ex.


That same hour which first awakens a
child to the consciousness of being observed,
and to the sense of admiration, strips it of
its freedom and unpremeditated grace of
motion. Awkwardness follows hard upon
the consciousness of special notice, and the
very attempt to disguise embarrassment too
often issues in a secondary and more mark-
ed embarrassment.			—De Quincy.


WE hear that a California philosopher has
extracted the following reply from a school-
boy, to the query, "How is the earth divid-
ed, my lad?"	"By earthquakes, Sir."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	To Remove Stains on Spoons caused by using
them for boiled eggs; take a little common salt
moistened between the thumb and finger, and
briskly rub the stain, which will soon disappear.
	Putting Cream on Onions instead of butter, (or 
even a little milk if one has no cream,) removes
much of the strong flavor, and renders them less
likely to affect weak stomachs unpleasantly.
	Lamps are liable to explode when trimming is
neglected. The wick being charred low down in
the tube, the flame obtains access to the oil below.
	To Destroy Ants.—Wrap a piece of gum cam-
phor in cloth or paper to keep it from dissolving
and place it in or about your cupboard or sugar
and it will drive away those pests.
	Washing to Stiffen Fine Lace;—Dissolve a
lump of white sugar in a wine-glassful of cold
water.
	To Wash White Striped Stockings.—Make a
jelly, the night before it is wanted, of the best
yellow soap; wash the stockings in warm water
with a little salt in it, using the jelly instead of
soap; rinse in clear water, also with a little salt in
it; wring as dry as possible, and dry quickly.
	The following method of preserving cider swee
is recommended as superior to any other: "I allow
the cider, after it comes from the press, to stand
until the pomace settles. When this point is
reached I put it in a clear vessel, and let it come
to a boil, skimming off the scum carefully. It is
then put into kegs and demijohns, and tightly
corked and sealed. By this process I have excel-
lent sweet cider, not merely for the entire winter,
but for years. This method would not of course
be available where large quantities are made, but
for an ordinary family it answers admirably."
	Sandwiches for Picnics.—Boil a few pounds of
ham, and chop it very fine while it is still warm—
fat and lean together; rub dry mustard in propor-
tions to suit your taste through the mass; add as
much sweet butter as would go to the spreading of
your sandwiches, and when it is thoroughly mixed,
split light biscuits in halves and spread the ham
between.  These can be eaten without trouble; and
will be found excellent.  Add to them some
oranges, or any other fruit in season, a loaf of
cake—if you are a notable cake baker—a bottle of
cold tea well sweetened, a small lump of ice wrap-
ped in flannel, and you are well provisioned for the
day.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	BABIES are described as coupons attached
to the bonds of matrimony.
	WHEN does a lawyer work like a horse?
When he draws a conveyance.
	WHY don't Sweden have to send abroad
for cattle? Because she keeps her Stock-
holm.
	MRS. Gubbins says her husband is like a
tallow candle; he always will smoke when
he goes out.
	PRECOCIOUS boy munching the fruit of 
the date tree: "Mamma, if I eat dates
enough will I grow up to be an almanac?
	"Do you like codfish balls, Mr. Wiggins?"
Mr. Wiggins, hesitatingly, "I really don't 
know; I don't recollect attending one."
	WHEN may the lawyer's clerk be said to 
have seen much of the world?—When he
has witnessed many deeds.
	PRIDE is an extravagant opinion of our 
own worthiness; vanity is an inordinate
desire that others should share that opinion.
—[Cummings.


ANYTHING Midas touched was turned to
gold. In these days, touch a man with gold
and he'll turn into anything.
	"DOCTOR," asked a convalescent, "can I
eat a bit of pork-chop or bacon this morn-
ing?" "Hardly," replied the Medicus, "to
eat the chop would be rash, and the bacon
rasher"
	LYING is like trying to hide in a fog; if
you move about, you are in danger of bump-
ing your head against the truth; as soon as
the fog blows up, you are gone anyhow.
	A rude fellow once told Barnum that he
had never exhibited anything that was not
a bare faced humbug. "Yes, I have," said
Barnum; "the bearded lady wasn't bare-
faced."
	"WHAT do you know of the character of
this man?" was asked of a witness in Court
the other day. "I know it to be unbleach-
able, your honor," replied the witness with 
much emphasis.
	THERE is a village in New Hampshire
that has produced twenty-six editors, and it
was in allusion to this circumstance that a
pious old deacon there remarked, "Yes,
there were twenty-six on 'em, but as they've
all left town, I reckon the Lord won't lay it
up agin us."
	A young and beautiful widow was about
to marry a rich old widower. Her friends
wished to know what she wanted to marry
him for. She replied, "For pure love. I
love the ground" (meaning the estate, prob-
ably) "on which he walks."
	SIDNEY Smith had a maid who used to
boil the eggs very well by her master's
watch; but one day he could not lend it to
her, because it was under repair, so she took
the time from the kitchen clock, and the
eggs came up nearly raw. "Why didn't
you take three minutes from the clock as
you do from the watch, Mary?" "Well,
Sir," replied Mary, "I thought that would
be too much, as the hands are so much
larger."
	THE Boston "Post" says there are only
41,000 lawyers in this country. The Detroit
"Free Press" exclaims that it thought there
were 1,500,000, with Texas to hear from.


MITCHEL & JAMES.
			Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
		                    AGENTS FOR
        RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS
			Pumps Repaired on short notice.
		Orders from the country promptly responded to.
	    Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

					   - NEW - 
				  ARRIVALS DAILY
		      Of Goods for Fall and Winter wear at
				  S. P. TEASDEL'S.
		Shawls in all varieties, new styles, Flannels. Linseys,
		Waterproof goods, Corsets, &c., Underclothing for
		Ladies at Reduced Prices.  Boys' and Childrens'
			Clothing. Hats Caps, &c., Reliable Goods,
			Low prices and good attention to the
				wants of our patrons.
								S.P. TEASDEL

				   MILLINERY. 
 				MRS. C. E. DYE.
		Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
	    for their liberal patronage.  She is now prepared to ac-
	   commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
	Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17,
	Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times. 

				    Z. C. M. I. 
			Wholesale and Retail Dealing
				in all kinds of 
	 DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	     HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	       GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	          STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c. 

				O. L. ELIASON,
				DEALER IN
		Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry.
		Second South Street, Opposite Walker
				Brothers' Bank.
	Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted for
				ONE YEAR. 

			IF YOU WANT CHEAP
	COOK, PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
		TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
				  GO TO
			W. HARRISON'S.
	One door South of Constitution Buildings,
				Main Street. 

			     THE KIND OF
			BOOTS AND SHOES
		EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable
		     priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION.
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Reparing
       Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates. 
			S. P. CROMPTON, Supt. 

			  Mrs. WILKINSON
	Has now on hand and is constantly receiving all the new
		and Elegant Fall and Winter Styles of 
	          LADIES' HATS AND BONNETS
	With a Choice Assortment of Fashionable Millinery
		at the Ladies Bazar, 1st South St., West
				of Z.C.M.I.
LADIES CORDIALLY INVITED to Give Her a CALL. 

				LADIES 
	If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
	Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send them to the
		UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt. 

			EVERY DESCRIPTION
					OF
		CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
					AND
			GENERAL DRY GOODS.
	Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks. 
		Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
					H.E. PHELPS,
						29 East Temple Street.

			H. DINWOODEY, 
	  WHOLESALE RETAIL DEALER IN
			     FURNITURE!
	 SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
			Feathers, Wall Paper,
				  and 
		    BABY CARRIAGES! 
	75, 77, & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
