VOL. 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1876.		NO. 21.


For the Exponent.
		CONFERENCE GREETING.

				April, 1876.

Again from North to South, from East to West,
	The Saints of Latter-days in conference meeting,
To praise the Lord, to bless and to be blest,
	Fast congregate, with peaceful, happy greetings.
Friends meet with friends, and cordial hands are shaken
	As one by one, or groups are gathering in;
Now silence! Now sweet strains of music 'waken,
	And lo! the conference services begin.

Why do they gather at this Gospel Feast,
	These thousands, 'neath this spacious dome's broad ceil-
		ing?
Father, Thy gifts and blessings have not ceased—
	And shall Thy children fail in their good feelings?
We come to hear Thy words in plainness spoken,
	That we more faithfully henceforth may live:
If in the past some trusts with Thee were broken,
	Lord, we are penitent, do Thou forgive.

We listen, purpose well, but soon forget—
	Help us to be more watchful and more guarded!
Prolong Thy mercies, we are children yet,
	O! leave us not as faithless ones discarded!
If with vain things our hearts have been encumbered,
	Yet prize we Thy dear words above them all;
If we in car[-]ess ease have slept and slumbered,
	We would awake at Thine enlivening call.

We trust Thy promises and feel secure;
	To follow Christ as our divine Preserver;
Help us all tests and chastenings to endure,
	And to pursue Thy canse with brightening fervor.
With faith and covenants renewed and strengthened,
	We worship, Father, and implore Thy grace;
O! be our follies purged, Thy mercies lengthened,
	Till we may see and know Thee face to face.

Until Thy temples shall o'erspread the land,
	Until the burden of Thy cause is lifted,
Thy cov'nant people working hand to hand,
	And seeing eye to eye, divinely gifted,
Pour out Thy spirit Lord in rich effulgence,
	Quicken our memories and our mind expand,
That as Thy servants speak, through Thine indulgence,
	Thy Saints may hear aright and understand.											LULA.


[Column 1]
					For the Exponent.
			WOMAN.

	It is woman's privilege to be queen of a
<hy su?h-wpfhi="" mis-="" ‘="" takes,="" and="" by.="" not="" (caluqg="" things="" by="" their="" right="" names.="" wqmep="" often="" take="" shelter="" ip="" .their,="" weakupsp,="" and.="" ppljpvp="" ;it="" ,="" i.,.right,="" 1="" iniwhereas="" ,.if,="" woman="" kx="">mighty realm! at present, mighty only in
minutiae! her subjects are the Lilliputians
of the earth, and their moral stature will be
pigmy, full-grown, or colossal, according as
her laws are wise, judicious and in love.
She controls, or ought to, the elements of
life, the germ of future glory, exaltation,
and the rudiments of angelic life. It is her
province to mould, to train, to nurture, to
support, to feed the precious mind of in-
fancy and youth. What more noble desti-
ny could she desire? Is she not working
for eternity? Can she do this in her own
strength? Certainly not. But she goes to
the Fountain Head of wisdom, asks and re-
ceives. Many of the great ones of the
earth, who have risen to eminence and
power, have fondly and proudly pointed to
their mothers, who, by their judicious train-
ing and management of their infancy and
youth, have sown and brought to perfection
the precious seed which, under God, they
were enabled to cast into their minds,
by which they became great; among a host
of such we may name Napoleon the First,
Lamartine, Bulwer, Eliza Cook, who have
all named their mother before the world,
with all honor. Shall not such instances
urge WOMAN to realize her responsibility

[Column 2]
and the end of her creation? Noble is her
work and mighty her responsibility! Her
first act of government must be SELF. She
has many a secret battle to fight to bring
herself into subjection. The foundation
must be good or it cannot support the super-
structure. The fountain must be pure, or
its streams can never fertilize the young
plants they are intended to invigorate and
renovate. The first lesson she must learn
is humility; the next obedience—if she
desires to conquer she must stoop to do so.
All children should learn these grand fun-
damental principles, but remember humility
and obedience must never degenerate into
apathy and servility, such would render
them obnoxious. True greatness is always
humble and gentle, for it knows its power,
feels its dignity is fully established, and
there is no foolish fear of compromising it.
In good government there must ever be
decision of character; firmness and gentle-
ness united. Let your laws be framed in
love and wisdom, and then do not allow
them to be broken with impunity. There
must be no vacillation or temporizing
about it; make no law that you cannot vig-
orously enforce; let love ever preside, but
mistake not foolish fondness for love; mis-
take not indolence and apathy for meekness;
mistake not negligence in your arrange-
ments for easiness of temper; there is much
that is wrong in woman by such woful mis-
takes, and by not calling things by their
right names. Women often take shelter in
their weakness, and believe it is right,
whereas if woman KNEW HERSELF, her
soul is large enough for all her Maker in-
tended her for, and she was made a help-
meet for man." These words are framed in
the sublime brevity of Holy Writ, but they
form a compendium of woman's position,
woman's duty, and of woman's exaltation.
The woman who really carries out her des-
tiny is indeed a heroine; if she desires great-
ness, she has it—I will prove it. True, her
sphere is in the secluded domestic drama of
life, beyond which her name is generally
unknown; but is he ONLY a hero whose
name resounds through the world as a hero
of battles and bloodshed? In the eye of
the misjudging world it may be so, but
when "the partition wall is broken down"
that shuts out the world from the immortal,
when "the scales fall" from human eyes,
and the veil is removed from human hearts,
then shall many an obscure individual stand
forth as the sterling soldier of Christ, and
many shall be abashed whose proud banner
flaunted over the battle fields of human
glory, but who disdained to fight in the
ranks of the great Captain of their salva-
tion. Is there no heroism in the daily
home struggle of the battle of life? To do
our duty to all around us, in the untiring
efforts to bear upward towards the light of
truth, to keep to the "narrow way," to be
patient, to persevere, to endure, to press on,
and not for the praise of humanity, for often
no eye but God's beholds the struggle, but
because the Spirit's eye is resting on that
glorious promise, "be thou faithful unto
death; and I will give thee a crown of life."
What is heroism, if this is not something of
the definition of it? Then I assume that
every such woman, who so proves herself,

[Column 3]
and those committed to her care is a hero-
ine, her name may be emblazoned on no
earthly scutchion, but I know it is traced
by the recording angel in the archway of
heaven and sealed with the signet ring of 
the Immortal.
					HANNAH T. KING.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Sallie Joy White is a contributor to
the Boston Sunday Times, editing a column
under the heading of "Woman's Kingdom."
It savors of a strong mind, a vigorous in-
tellect, and smooth and harmonious adapta-
tion of the author to the subject.
	MISS Susie Dugan, daughter of Mr. T.
H. Dugan, formerly of Boston, took the
prize, the Avery gold medal, for the best
oil painting, at the exhibition of the School
of Design, in San Francisco, of which Mr.
Virgil Williams is professor.
	QUEEN Victoria opened Parliament in
person on Feb. 8th, an event which it is
said has awakened great interest and ex-
citement among her subjects. The Houses
of Parliament were filled with a distinguish-
ed throng. The Queen was attended with
various members of the royal family and
nobility. The Lord Chancellor read the
speech in behalf of the Queen. The impos-
ing ceremony lasted but a few minutes.


INFORMAL PEOPLE.

	Preserve us from unceremonious people—
those men and women who "never stand on
ceremony"—who are always perfectly at
home in other people's houses. Society
has many pests, but few so intolerable as
they. "Free and easy" visitors are most
thoroughly disagreeable. They will inflict
themselves upon you at any time, and ex-
pect always to be cordially welcomed be-
cause they are so free and easy, and so loth
to put anybody to trouble. They will come
before breakfast, or just as you are sitting
down to dinner, and draw up their chairs
quite like one of the family. Early in the
morning they "delight to run in," and they
will come right up to your chamber to save
you the trouble of coming down, and there
they will sit and watch you make your toi-
let, and comment upon how gray your hair
is getting, and wonder if you are not a great
deal stouter, and redder in the face than
you used to be. They will hunt over your
writing-desk for note-paper; bathe their fa-
ces with your cologne water, and scent their
handkerchiefs with the contents of your
choicest perfumery bottle. They are al-
ways ready for luncheon—"you know I'm
too much at home in YOUR house to go hun-
gry, my dear,"—and any stray confection-
ary lying about melts before them as dew
before the sun. They make no scruple of
borrowing your latest magazines and new-
est books; even your wardrobe does not es-
cape their encroachments; and all this inso-
lence is cloaked by such empty remarks as
these: "I never stand on ceremony, but
make myself at home everywhere; so don't
put yourself out to entertain me!" Again
we say preserve us from unceremonious
people.—Smith's Monthly.


162		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

		MINERSVILLE, March 6th, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I have been thinking for some time of
writing to let you know how we are get-
ting along with our Improvement Associa-
tion. We meet together once a week, open 
our meetings with prayer and singing and
bear testimony to the things of the king-
dom. The young ladies of the Society
take great interest in attending these meet-
ings, and are also improving in composing
essays and take delight in learning poetry,
and speaking and reading selections. We
have good times and enjoy the spirit of the
Lord, we feel that we have His blessing
with us continually. Our Improvement As-
sociation was organized Nov. 28th, 1875,
with the following officers:
	Mrs. Melissa K. Lee, President,
	"	Bathsheba Grundy,
	Miss Libbie Hamblin,
	"	Leah Blackburn,
	"	Rhoda Baker,				Counselors.
	"	Sarah Ann Zabriskie,
	"	Frances Grundy,
	Mrs. Emeline Goodman,		Secretaries
	"	Mary A. Osborn,
	We have made our resolutions as follows:
	1st. Resolved: That we consider it a duty
devolving on the members of this Associa-
tion to attend Sabbath meetings. Fast-day
meetings, and all other religious meetings
of the Saints.
	2nd. Resolved: That as we believe tak-
ing the name of God in vain is a deep pro-
fanity, we will use our influence to abolish
that practice, and will abstain from the use
of all slang phrases or by-words which are
degrading to all those that use them.
	3rd. Resolved: That inasmuch as strong
drink is injurious to health and happiness,
we will try to reduce that practice by not
associating with those who use it to excess.
	4th. Resolved: That as we believe the
use of tobacco is very injurious to the health
and very disagreeable in the presence of
ladies, therefore we will use all our influ-
ence to prevent this unwise habit.
	5th. Resolved: That as round dancing al-
so is very injurious to health we will not
indulge in it to excess; and will try to re-
form our conduct in general, such habits
as loud laughter, speaking lightly of each
other and of sacred things.
	Our prayer is that the Lord will bless us
and all those that strive to do right, that
we may have His blessings continually, is
our desire
 Yours Respectfully,
		MRS.MARY A. OSBORN,
							Sec'y. 
        	KAMAS, March 13th, 1876.

DEAR EXPONENT:

	Not wishing to be entirely forgotten by
our friends I send you a communication
from this secluded portion of our MOUN-
TAIN HOME. Could you see our beautiful
valley clad in snow from mountain to river,
you might imagine yourself at the North
Pole, with no sign of Spring. Some time
since we were favored with a visit from
some of the leading brethren in the church.
They held several meetings which were
well attended and a good spirit prevailed,
for while they sharply reproved us for our
sins, they left us not without the hope and
consolation of the Gospel; but like faithful
servants of their Divine Master, opened the
door whereby we could, through obedience

to the ordinance of baptism, renew our cove-
nants; and start anew to serve the Lord.
 I believe the Sisters are doing all they
can to carry out the counsel of our Bishop,
and forward the work of reformation in
this place. Financially, we cannot boast of
our circumstances, still we do all in our pow-
er to help the poor and needy, visit the sick,
and comfort those who mourn; having faith
in the words of our Savior "Inasmuch as ye
have done it unto one of the least of these
my brethren, ye have done it unto me." I
can truly say we enjoy the spirit of the
Lord in our meetings.
	We have a Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Association, with the following
officers:
	Miss Celestia Young, President,
	"	Mary Williams,
	"	Ursula Pack,			Counselors.
	We have also established a class for the
instruction of little girls in some of the
branches of HOME INDUSTRY.
	The Ladies of the Relief Society gave a
ball on the 27th of Feb., the hall was beau-
tifully decorated for the occasion. Dan-
cing commenced at 2 o'clock p. m., and clos-
ing at 10; we have had no round dancing
this winter.
                                 PHEBE YOUNG.
                                      Assist. Sec'y.

                                BLOOMINGTON, March 6th, 1876
 EDITOR EXPONENT:
 I have been thinking for some time of
contributing a few lines to your valuable pa-
per in behalf of our Relief Society, which
is in a flourishing condition. I can truly
say our Associations have united us togeth-
er; althouth we have not much means we
are rich in spirit, blest with health, kind
hearts and willing hands, that are ready to
help build up the Kingdom of God. We
received a visit from Sister Horne whose
valuable instructions have sunk deep into
our hearts, and for whom we shall ever
pray. We read your valuable paper with
interest and cherish its encouraging coun-
sels. Sister Horne organized a Young La-
dies Retrenchment Association, which we
hope will begin a new era in the lives of
the young people. To asssist in rolling on
the Kingdom of God is the desire of their
hearts.	
	Yours Respectfully,
					Anne Nelson, Sec'y.

				SALEM, March 8th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have been thinking for some time that
I would send you a report of the organiza-
tion of our Retrenchment Association in
Salem, but not being accustomed to writ-
ing letters of this kind, I have neglected it
until now. There are but a few young la-
dies in this place, consequently our society
is composed mostly of small girls, but they
attend meetings very faithfully and take
great pride in selecting good pieces from
the best books and papers, and a good spirit
prevails generally; I never enjoy myself
better than when I attend these meetings.
I think it is a great privilege the young sis-
ters have to improve the talents the Lord
has given them in this way. If we could
only realize the work we have to perform
and the short time we have to do it in,
I think we would be more ready and will-
ing to respond to the calls that are made of
us from time to time. We have an excel-
lent presidency, who are doing all they can
for the advancement of the young. We
have resolved to carry out the counsel of
President Young in regard to dancing.

Our society was organized July 17th, 1875,
with the following named officers:
	Mrs. Martha Curtis, President,
	"	Josephine Higgins,
	"	Sarah D. Curtis,		Counselors.
	Miss Almira Jackman, Secretary,
	Mrs. Delia Hanchett, Treasurer.

	May God bless the EXPONENT and all
those who are interested in its welfare is
the earnest desire of your sister in the Gos-
pel of Christ.
				ALMIRA JACKSON,
						Secretary.
		MALAD CITY, UNEIDA CO., IDAHO.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Thinking that a few lines from this part
of the Lord's vineyard would be interest-
ing to the numerous readers of the EXPO-
NENT, I avail myself of the opportunity.
	The Relief Society held their annual
meeting at this place, Feb. 28th, which was
well attended. Appropriate speeches were
delivered by the president Mrs. Jane Price
and her Counselors, Mrs. Ann Daniels,
Esther Lusk and others. The Secretary,
Mrs. Esther Goodliffe read a report of the
condition of the Society, showing a balance
of $168 in cash in the Treasury box, not-
withstanding the many acts of charity ex-
tended to the needy during the year end-
ing Feb. 28th, Mrs. Martha Jones, Treasurer.
The officers of the Society were unani-
mously re-elected for the next year. The
plans for future operations were discussed
in a business manner, each member giving
her views to the best of her ability. There
is more interest taken in becoming self-sus-
taining than was ever known in this settle-
ment. At the present date the Society
numbers 120 members and the number
keeps increasing at each meeting.
 Great praise and credit are due to the
ladies of Malad, progression is their motto.
I wish to say further that under the super-
intendence of our venerable and worthy
Bishop Daniels, in the mercantile and oth-
er departments of co-operation we continue
to grow in wealth and strength; and though
our homes are not palaces, we enjoy peace
and plenty.
 The health of the people is very good,
and their circumstances cheerful, with
plenty of time these winter months for
mental culture, recreation and social enjoy-
ment.
 The Sunday School is in a flourishing
condition under the supervision of Edward
Roberts and James Harrison. Credit is due
Mr. George Stuart General Superintendent
of all the Sunday Schools in this valley,
for his untiring efforts to supply the schools
with books, presents &c.
	We have two well-attended day schools
in Malad City. The cause of education is
in the ascendency here. Our future prospects
are cheerful to all those who have at heart
the culture and welfare of the rising gener-
ation.
	We avail ourselves of every possible
means within our reach to improve our-
selves, taking in consideration the circum-
stances which surround us, and I believe
rank favorably with the rest of mankind in
intelligence and education, and are gaining
a knowledge of our most holy religion.
	Success to the Exponent and all its pat-
rons. Adieu. 
							JANE PRICE.


LOVERS should be careful how they act in
the country, for potatoes have eyes, corn
ears, and beans s-talk.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	163


For the EXPONENT.
A TRUE FRIEND.

THESE LINES ARE AFFECTIONATELY IN-
SCRIBED TO MY FRIEND EMMA E.

Not alone when Summer breezes
	Oe'r the meadows and the lea,
Softly fan the verdant grasses,
	Art thou a true friend to me;
But when Winter dark and drear
	Has cast on nature's face a gloom,
Then though icy blows the air,
	The flowers of friendship bloom.

Not alone when sunshine gleams
	Brightly on my path of life,
Bringing health, and joy and pleasure,
	With no thought of care or strife;
But when angry clouds of trouble
	Dark and heavy—without end,
Chase each other o'er my pathway
	Thou art still my faithful friend.

Not alone when stars are beaming,
	Softly o'er the grassy plain,
Shedding rare and sweet effulgence,
	Bringing back my youth again.
But when night all dark and stormy,
	And in doubt e'en prayers ascend,
In my soul I feel assurance
	That thou art indeed my friend.

Not alone when hope in freshness,
	Lingers bright around my way,
Whispering of a pre-existence
	Far beyond—in realms of day;
But when sorrows dark and threatening
	Crush my heart—O, Heaven defend—
Be thou strong in holy friendship,
	Ever true till time shall end.
		MRS. ALDER.
S. L. City, March 15th, 1876.


OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.

	I had given you up, and had ceased to
enquire of my aunt if anything appeared in
her last paper from "my old maid;" when,
this evening the EXPONENT containing
your remarkable description of yourself,
and synopsis of your life was spread before
me.
	To meet you fairly, I suppose I should re-
ciprocate, and give you some details con-
cerning myself. But I am not good at
drawing burlesques, in which I see you are
calculated to excel. So I hope you will ex-
cuse me on this point. But I shall be happy
to correspond with you, on any subject
which I may be able to treat with some de-
gree of satisfaction.
	What is your favorite pursuit? Do you
like music, painting and poetry? What do
you think of history, philosophy, or relig-
ion? Do you pay  attention to politics?
Can I please you by writing and encourag-
ing you to write upon either of the subjects
mentioned, or any other? You may be
sure I have a desire to interest you, and
will endeavor to do my best in discussing
whatever you may choose to name. I shall
prefer to be somewhat in earnest however,
even if you continue to write in fun.
	Do you dislike to write or talk seriously?
I hope you prefer doing so sometimes, for
although

		"A little nonsense now and then
		Is relished by the wisest men"—
		Yet sober thought is requisite
			High morals to create,
		And TRUTH alone, e'en wits must own,
			Is noble, good and great.

	I certainly should feel highly compli-
mented, in that you do me the honor to be-
lieve me a woman, since you place so low
an estimate on man and consider woman so
much in the ascendency. I have the pleas-
ure of the acquaintance—and I trust the
friendship—of several intelligent and well


informed young ladies who would very de-
cidedly differ with you on these points.
But if I am to retain your friendship, so
graciously offered, by allowing myself to be
believed a woman, and not otherwise, I
cordially submit, and can assure you, you
are at perfect liberty to address me as sister
instead of brother, if it better suits your
delicate fancy. For my own part I cannot
discover so grave a difference between the
general characters of men and those of wo-
men, as some people seem capable of doing.
If I am myself a man, my nearest natural
relative—my mother—was a woman, and if
I am a woman, a man must have been my
father after all.
	If the editors of WOMAN'S EXPONENT
allow all this a place in their columns, I
trust you will not discard me altogether,
but will have the goodness to write again.
				Respectfully,
							HAL.
				[handwritten signature]


FLORAL HINTS.

	HOW TO WATER HANGING BASKETS:—
Set in the middle of the basket or suspend
over it a deep vase or broken goblet, which
should be kept full of water. In the water
place one end of three or four cotton or
worsted cords, and drop the other end of
them on different parts of the top of the
basket. The capillary attraction will cause
a constant flow of the water through the
strings, the number of which may be in-
creased or diminished according as more or
less moisture is needed. The vase, of
course, must be fastened so as it will not
tip and spill the water. It may also be
filled with "Wandering Jew," or anything
that will grow in water, and thus add to the
beauty of the basket. The many advanta-
ges of this arrangement are obvious.


FLOWERS.

	THE affections of a woman are like pearls
—often thrown up by the stormy ocean of
adversity.
	As malarious air may endanger a good
constitution, so bad companions endanger a
good character.
	THERE is no just action, no kind word,
no obliging demeanor, no chastity, no hos-
pitality that springs from selfishness which
will not have its penalty, inasmuch as it
corrupts the character; and there is no kind-
ness, no forbearance, no generosity, no
charity that springs from disinterested be-
nevolence which has not its remuneration,
for it makes men better, nobler, and purer.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

		OXFORD ONEIDA CO., March 5th '76.
	When our dear little children are pros-
trated with sickness, we are fearing and
trembling lest they should not recover, es-
pecially if we are alone with them. It ap-
pears to be natural, but dear mothers it is
not the right way.
	When you see your child is sick, do not
get frightened, and your nerves all upset
so that the Evil One who is always waiting
near, can have power over you and your
child, but go to your Heavenly Father with
a humble heart and ask Him to forgive you
of your sins; for who of us are without sin,
and strengthen your faith that the Adver-
sary may be rebuked. Then go to your
child with strong faith and lay your hands
upon the little head, and rebuke the de-
stroyer in the name of Jesus Christ &c.


Our children are given to us dear sisters,
and we must keep our hearts prayerful each
moment we live and ourselves free from
sin so that we can hold them with firm
faith; they are committed to our care, and
we should if possible, be equal to every
emergency. Is it not important then that
we should live near unto God and carry
with us thankful hearts all the year round?
What mother cares for this world's riches
and vain glories in comparison to the life
and welfare of her children. Therefore
dear sisters, let us all try and live our re-
ligion from hour to hour and day to day, so
thatwe may not be found wanting is my
desire in the name of Jesus.
						D. E. DUDLEY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have for a long time been wishing that
by. the Spirit of God I might be able
to write a few lines that might be edifying
to some, and that would also tend to develop
my own mind. I feel and realize that the
more we exercise the ability and cultivate
the knowledge which God has given unto
us, the better will we be able to convey
our thoughts, and by seeking after Him in
humble prayer, He will enlarge our under-
standings so that we can comprehend more
clearly the work that is for us to perform,
that we may be helpmeets to our husbands
in rolling forth this great work of salvation
in these the LAST DAYS. I am but young,
yet I feel to rejoice in the glorious princi-
ples which the Lord has revealed for the
salvation of His children; and feel to bless
my parents every day that I live for instill-
ing these principles in my mind in child-
hood. I think that many of us while young,
do not realize that it is our good our parents
are seeking when they persuade us to go to
meetings instead of going out walking for
amusement; but in after years, when we be-
come wives and mothers we realize it more
fully; I have proved this in my short expe-
rience, and I think it is also the experience
of a great many. Let us as a united band
of sisters improve in everything that is good
that we may be fit instruments in the hands
of God in fulfilling His wise purposes, and
perform our work faithfully in elevating the
sphere of woman.
	I think that the EXPONENT is an excel-
lent paper and may it receive a wider circu-
lation among the sisters, and accomplish the
good work for which it was started. This is
the earnest prayer of your sister in the Gos-
pel.
				MRS. M. W. WARNICK.
	Pleasant Grove, March 13th 1876.


SOME fill conspicuous places, some make
the places they fill conspicuous.
	HONOR is but the reflection of a man's
own actions shining bright in the face of all
about him, and from thence rebounding up-
on himself.—South.
	THERE is an emanation from the heart
in genuine hospitality which cannot be de-
scribed but is immediately felt, and puts
the stranger at once at his ease.—Washing-
ton Irving.
	JOHN G. Whittier has a statuette of Her-
cules leaning on his club, which was formerly
in Charles Sumner's library. It was pre-
sented to the poet by the sister of Mr. Sum-
ner.
	THE poet Moore, whose verse is so singu-
larly mellifluous, liquid, facile, has remarked
that "labor is the purest of all the lasting
wonders of the world, whether in verse or
stone, whether poetry or pyramids."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
	EM[-]ELINE B. WELLS.        }Editors.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1[--] Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
ra[-]es. Each square, ten lines of nonpareil spaace, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate.  Business hours from 10
a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1876.


For WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
To whom it may concern.
	It will be recollected that an article, written
by me, entitled "Mortal and Immortal Ele-
ments of the Human Body—A Philosophical
Objection to the Resurrection Removed." was
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in Sep-
tember, 1875, and that subsequently an article
written and signed py Pres. Young appeared in
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in which the former
was pronounced untrue.
	Permit me to say that I fully concur in the
views expressed by Pres. Young, and withdraw
everything contained in my article at variance
therewith, and trust that no Latter-Day Saint
may be led into erroneous doctrine through
anything written by me.
	Salt Lake City, March 19, 1876.
						ELIZA R. SNOW.


DOMESTIC ECONOMY.

	Some of the best schools that could be insti-
tuted for many young women in this city and
various other places, would be those in which
cooking and housewifery might be throughly
taught.
	These things every one believes, should be
taught at home. But how many mothers there
are who have never had opportunities for learn-
ing the best methods for conducting their
house work.
	Happy matches sometimes result from the
admiration gentlemen feel for young ladies
whom they happen to observe are capable of
presiding well at table, or cooking a good din-
ner. There is a great deal more in these simple
things than some girls, or some mothers are
aware. For instance, in pouring tea or coffee,
(we do not advocate the use of either, but if
they must form a part of any meal it is well to
know how to manage them,) it is often the
case that persons not knowing[-]that the first
cup is the weakest and that the tea grows
stronger as the pouring off proceeds, bestows
the poorest cup upon the one for whom the best
should have been intended and give the last
and strongest cup to a young member of the
family. Where several cups of equal strength
are wanted, pour a little into each, then go
back inverting the order as the cups are filled
up, and the strength will be apportioned prop-
erly. This is so well understood by some that
an experienced hand waits till all the cups of
a company are returned to her before filling
any a second time, so that all may share
equally. Of course the tastes of all should be
consulted.
	Every sort of cooking should be done in a
dress that will wash, with a clean apron over
it; and it is well if the hair be covered. It


looks out of place certainly, to see a lady mak-
ing pies in an old black silk dress, trim[---]
with crape, and every crease full of flour.  All
old silk is useful for linings. but once used to
make pies or cakes in, it will be so defaced as
to lose half its value.
	This subject is one of such grave importance
that it will bear following up for a short per-
iod.


IGNORANCE AND EXTRAVAGANCE.

	It is an easy way of extricating one's self
from a difficulty to throw the blame on to
some irresponsible party, and woman seems to
have been made the scape-goat and make shift
in all the great questions that threaten danger
to man. "It is some woman's work, is the
foregone conclusion and of course it is a mat-
ter of self-gratulation to fancy that the wo-
man has done it, ignorantly and unthinkingly.
How could she know better, she is all weak-
ness and all dependence, and could not be ex-
pected to understand the dreadful consequences
which might be the result of only her vanity
or caprice? Man likes woman to be all sim-
plicity, weakness and dependence, but how
does he like the consequences it involves?
Would it not be more desirable to have a wife
who could thoroughly understand her husband's
position in regard to finance, and not only reali-
zed but appreciated the true dignity of character
which he should maintain despite style, society
and the admiration of men whose good opin-
ion is not worth a moment's thought of a pure-
minded honorable woman.
	Men who are anxious that woman should
trust blindly and implicitly to them for guid-
ance having no positive ideas of her own (ex-
cept upon the elegance and exquisiteness of
her costumes) are rightly served when they
are brought face to face with the stubborn fact
that they are ruined by her.
	Will it never be possible to make the major-
ity of men comprehend that woman's equality
with them on all subjects for the general wel-
fare, would save them from many of the en-
tanglements in which they become involved
through her ignorance and extravagance. It
is only the p[-]sitive result of their own preciou[-]
policy.
	Woman when on an equal footing will lose
her winsomeness, her attractiveness, her mag-
netic charm, this is their fallacious reasoning—
but if woman charms to destroy, if she through
these very attractions brings her husband to
ruin, what then? And where lies the fault? If
her education has been too superficial to give
her an understanding of what was best for her
own and her husband's interests, and most of
all what should be for the best welfare of her 
children—then is it not time for some change—
is it not time that woman was taught the prin-
ciples of the government of her country. and
what is due the country from those who sit in
high places and fill offices of trust? Is it not
absurd in this age of enlightenment for woman
to plead ignorance as an excuse for folly—be-
cause if such is really the case, what a terrible
account of time, opportunities and talents
wasted must be rendered to her Maker.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A NUMBER of valuable communications
have been left over until next issue for want
of space.
	NEXT THURSDAY the 6th inst., will commence
the Forty-sixth Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.


"BEN ISRAEL, or From Under the Curse,"
was performed at the theatre in this city Sat-,
urday evening March 25, and drew a large at-
tendance. Mr. E. W. Tullidge, the author,
has recently arrived from New York.
	THE NEW Chief Justice: Utah is to have
another change o fthis kind within a year.
The gentleman is a stranger here, but is said to
be thoroughly versed in laws relative to min-
ing and land questions. His name is John M.
Coglan, a Kentuckian by birth, but has resided
in California ever since the year 1850. 
	THE NEW and capacious building erected on
Main Street for the benefit of Z. C. M. I. is al-
ready very near completion, and is, or will
very soon be occupied by the institution. This
noble structure is a grand acquistion to the
city, and the ready manner in which the work
upon it has been performed, is an indication of
what might be accomplished through co-opera-
tion.
	WE LEARN from the "Utah Pomologist,"
J. E. Johnson's paper, that the ladies of St.
George have concluded—or ought to conclude
—to get their goods cheaper than they can be
obtained in that locality at present. Mr. John-
son advises the ladies to "put in a small sum
each, form a real co-op, employ one of their
number as clerk and leave the sterner sex to
seek more manly and fitting employment." If
co-ope[-]ation of this kind could be properly en-
tered into and carried out by different branch-
es of the Relief Society a great deal of time
and money would be saved that are now un-
profitably expended. 
	WE TAKE pleasure in recommending to the
reading public a new book just recently pub-
lished by the "Deseret News Co." entitled "Cor-
respondence at Palestine Tourists." It com-
prises a series of letters by George A. Smith,
Lorenzo Snow, Paul A. Schettler, and Eliza
R. Snow. These letters were mostly written
while traveling in Europe, Asia, and Africa in
the years 1872 and 1873; and contain interest-
ing items in regard to the various places they
vi[-]ited in these countries, with accurate and
reliable information concerning manners, cust-
toms and habits of the different varieties of
people who live upon the Eastern continent.


LETTER FROM MRS. M. I. HORNE.

		PARIS, BEAR LAKE, March 2nd, 1876
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As you requested a communication from me
during my visit to this Northern country, I
have tried to get time to write, but have not
succeeded until to-day. I left Salt Lake on
the 19th of Jan. by the seven o'clock train.
When we arrived in Ogden, I was through
the kindness of Bro Z. Jacobs conducted to
the U. P. train. During my ride to Evanston
I conversed with some of the passengers.
Thinking a part of our conversation might be
interesting to some of your readers, I will give
you a few items. Among the passengers was
a Southern lady whose husband was an inva-
lid; they were traveling from Califor[-]ia to
Louisana to spend the winter. When she
found I was from Salt Lake she asked me a 
number of questions about our people, and our
facilities for education. I told her they were
very good, and our children would compare
favorably with the children of other commu-
nities. We talked at some length on our re-
ligious beliefs, especially polygamy. I told her
it was a principle of our faith given to us by
divine revelation from God, and we accepted


[Column 1]
it and was willing to live by it, knowing that
it was given for the salvation, redemption and
elevation of the human family. "Well," said
she, "I would [-]ot submit to that upon any
consideration." We also conversed upon the
Scriptures, and the doctrines of Christ and His
Apostles. I told her that we believe in the
same doctrines, quoting scripture to prove my
assertion. "Well," said she, "the more we
search into these things, the greater the mys-
tery." I said it was no mystery to those that
had the same spirit by which they were writ-
ten, for holy men of old spake as they were
moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and we could
not get that spirit only by complying with the
requirements of the Gospel which I had been
explaining to her. The Savior said "he thatdid not come in at the door, but climbed up
some other way was a thief and a robber."
I bore a faithful testimony to her of the truth
of Mormonism. Said I, if we should meet be-
hind the vail, you may remember the testimo-
ny I have borne you this day. She only
smiled. But remarked she would like to visit
Salt Lake on her return. A Catholic Priest
hearing her said, "you would see a fine city
Madame, and a very industrious people; much
credit is due them for what they have accom-
plished in so short a time. I do not hold with
their religious tenets, I am a Catholic Father,
I do dot know what your profession is. I went
to Salt Lake eleven years ago, with as much
prejudice as any one, thinking that the people
were mainly honest, but that their leaders were
impostors and deceivers. After living with
them I have come to the conclusion that they
are as sincere in their religious belief as any of
the ministers of the Gospel, and should have
the same protection and privileges as any oth-
er people. "Why," said he, "the idea that
we Gentile Ministers (as they call us) thinking
we have only to take our doctrines there and
preach, to convert them. why they have some-
thing so far superior to anything we can take
them, we can make no impression on them
whatever." And yet, I remarked we are call-
ed an ignorant people. He came to me and
asked me if I was a Mormon. I said I was, he
sat down beside me and asked if I had any ob-
jections to his asking me a few questions; I
told him I would be pleased to answer any
questions he wished to ask. He said please ex-
cuse me, but if a man has two or three wives
are they as virtuous and true to him as if he
had only one? I answered, just as sacredly so
—as we are all bound by the same covenant. I
told him we believe it the privilege of every
woman to become an honorable wife and moth-
er; as woman's mission on the earth was to
bear the souls of men. The Lord said in the
beginning "go forth and multiply and replen-
ish the earth;" I said, you know sir, there are
thousands of men that are killed in battle, that
never marry; consequently there is a surplus
of women on the earth. The Lord revealed
the law of celestial MARRIAGE to elevate wo-
man to an honorable position, and bind us to-
gether for time and all eternity. We have con-
fidence in our husbands if they should be sent
to the ends of the earth we have no fear of
their being untrue to us. I asked him if he
did not see a much better state of society with
us, where women were protected from evil
men; while in the world they were degraded,
and treated as outcasts. "Oh," says he there
is indeed less evil in in your midst; your city
is the best governed and your people the most
moral of any that I know of; and it was much
better when under Mormon rulers, as it was
when I first came among you, than it is now.
	A great many times in the course of our con-
versation he would say, "your arguments are

[Column 2]
correct." He said he wanted to show me that
the Priesthood descended through the Catholic
Chur[-]h till the present day. After he had got
through, I answered, they crucified the Sav-
ior and pat the Apostles to death; consequent-
ly the Priesthood was taken from the earth;
besides the Apostles said there should be a fall-
ing away. "Oh," said he, "that means an in-
dividual falling away." He said "I should like
to know more of your doctrines, can you tell
me where I can purchase a book of Doctrine
and Covenants? I told him at the Deseret
News Office. He spoke very highly of Prest.
Young as a man of superior mind; after ask-
ing me a great many questions, he thanked
me, and they all bade me a pleasant good-bye
at Evanston, at which place I was delayed on
account of storms for three days and a half.
			(to be continued)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	165


OUR RELIGION.

	I should suppose that far seeing, ambitious,
yet tender wives and mothers, would not fail
to discover in the "Mormon plural wife sys-
tem," a means of entirely removing the great-
est and most rational objection brought for-
ward in opposition to women occupying pub-
lic offices. Men tell us and, many practical
women join them in the opinion, that a wo-
man's domestic concerns must be neglected if
her attention is given to anything else. But
in well regulated, happy polygamous families,
this difficulty is readily obviated, as the home
interests are mutual; and in the case of either
wife being absent or publicly engaged, anoth-
er may take the oversight and management of
the household affairs, look after the children,
and see that nothing goes wrong.
	I would be a Mormon—a whole-hearted, ear-
nest Mormon—if only for the sake of the heal-
ing ordinance which our religion contains. I
can only wonder when I see those who profess
to be Mormons, appear forgetful of God's prom-
ises to His people. In cases of severe or sudden
sickness, sometimes it seems as though they
question in themselves which it is best for
them to consult first, the Lord or the doctor.
B[-]t if, in all such cases, we could only reflect
reasonably and prayerfully, we should know
that unless the Lord [-]ight see fit to allow our
friends to be taken from us, he would hear our
petitions, and inspire us to pursue proper meth-
ods that they might be healed. And that if
the Lord would not heal them the doctors could
not. I say this with all due deference to good
physicians. I admire, respect and honor men
and women who labor to inform themselves on
scientific subjects, for the good of their fellow
beings. But the Lord knows more than it is
possible for them to learn in their mortal state,
and He has promised to heal those who will
call upon Him in faith.
	In reading of John Wesley, George White
field, Philip Doddridge and other wise and good
men who lived a few generations since, I have
wondered that they never understood and fol-
lowed the words of God in times of sickness
and suffering among themselves and their
friends. How must they have interpreted this
passage of Scripture. "Is any sick among you?
Let him call for the elders of the church, and
let them pray over him, anointing him with
oil, in the name of the Lord."
	I suppose the Lord did not wish to open their
eyes and quicken their understandings then,
that they might receive a knowledge of the
fulness of the everlasting Go[---] It was not
His set time for restoring His Priesthood to
the sons of men.


And now that it is among us, how slow we
are to realize and acknowledge its blesssings!
But the Gospel of Jesus is perfect in all its
parts; and we have only to learn to live in ac-
cordance with its principles, in order to over-
come all our imperfections. To live perfect
lives we have only to live our Religion.
							MAUD LILY.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	IT may be mentioned as a historical sin-
gularity, that all the English kings who mar-
ried French princesses incurred the dis-
pleasure of their subjects and suffered vio-
lent deaths; as Edward II, Richard II,
Henry VI, and Charles I.
	AMONGST our industrious and frugal fore-
fathers, it was a maxim, that a young wo-
man should never be married until she had
spun herself a set of body, table, and bed-
linen. From this custom all unmarried wo-
men were termed spinsters, an appellation
they still retain in all our law proceedings.
	THE Danish Ambassador, having com-
plained to King William of the liberties ta-
ken with his master by Lord M[---]sworth
in his celebrated "Account of Denmark,"
hinted that if one of his Danish Majesty's
subjects had said as much of the King of
England, his master would upon complaint,
have taken off the author's head. "That I
cannot do," rejoined the king; "but if you
please, I will tell him what you say, and he
shall put it in the next edition of his book."
	FUSELI, the celebrated artist, had a great
dislike to commonplace observations. Af-
ter sitting perfectly silent for a long time in
his own room, during the "bald, disjointed
chat" of some idle callers-in, who were gab-
bling with one another about the weather,
and other topics of as interesting a nature,
he suddenly exclaimed, "We had pork for
dinner to-day."--"Dear! Mr. Fuseli, what
an odd remark!"--"Why, it is as good as
anything you have been saying for the last
hour.
	"GOOD WINE NEEDS NO BUSH."—Com-
mentators have been sadly puzzled to find
out the meaning of this proverb, which a
residence in France during an autumn
would easily have solved. In the depart-
ments where the vine is cultivated, the pea-
sant sells its vintage; and as a sign, a green
bush is stuck in the wall over the door; this
is a regulation of the police; and as long as
the peasant has any wine to sell, so long
must the bush remain. If one has made
better wine than another, the news is soon
spread abroad amongst the topers, and hence
the proverb, good wine needs no bush.
	"HELP, HELP!"—When Dick Aims first
crossed into York State, from the Canada
side, he took lodgings at an inn in Canand-
aigua. Awwaiting-maid sat at the table
with them; and Dick spoke of her as the
servant to the no small scandal of mine
host; who told him that in his house a ser-
vant was called a "help." Very well; the
next morning the whole house was alarmed
by a loud shouting by Dick of "Help! help!
water! help!" in an instant every person
in the inn equal to the task, rushed into
Dick's room with a pail of water. "I am
much obliged to ye, to be sure," said Dick,
"but here is more than I want to shave
with." "Shave with?" quoth mine host,
"you called 'help' and 'water!' and we
thought the house was on fire," "Ye told
me to call the servant help, and do ye think
I would cry water when I meant fire?"
"Give it up." said the landlord, as he led off
the line of buckets--New York Sun.


166		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN’S AMBITION.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	What should be woman's highest ambi-
tion, is a question often propounded, and
one to which it is difficult for even the most
profound student of human nature to give
a decisive or satisfactory answer. Men dif-
fer in their opinions upon this subject accord-
ing to their own tastes and cultivation.
That there should be some standard good-
ness to be attained by every woman of sense
and judgment all will agree. Pope in his
"Moral Essays" reduces their ambitions to
the low estimate of two passions only (in
general:)

		“In men we various ruling passions find;
		In woman two almost divide the kind:	
		Those only fix'd, they first or last obey,
		The love of pleasure, [-]r[-]the love of sway."

	Many men learned in book knowledge,
have made serious mistakes in their esti-
mate of woman's true character. Alas! one
can but regret the false judgment in regard
to woman which men, who on other ques-
tions make careful investigations, and are
particular not to convey wrong impressions,
yet stamp indelibly upon the public mind,
in dealing with this puzzling subject, which
above almost all others should be rightly
understood if woman is ever to fill the
true sphere for which nature has so pecu-
liarly adapted her, by the unmistakable tone
of her sentiments and bent of her tastes.
	Left even in a wild uncultivated state it
is apparent to the casual observer or care-
ful reader, woman seeks for the beautiful
in nature and ornamentation. Nor is this
any direct indication of frivolity or vanity,
or a definite tendency to shine in the eyes
of others or even to charm, but simply to
satisfy the cravings of a disposition implant-
ed in her, the innate love of the beautiful,
that she retains as part and parcel of that
divine heritage, her especial dower at the
hands of her Maker.
	That woman retains more of the refining
and  purifying elements in her nature
should be a positive demonstration in the
minds of all persons of discernment that
she has a special mission. That she
is endowed with more innate purity
and grace, a more intuitive conception
of divinity is a proof that she is the
real help-meet to assist in reinstating man
through her powerful influence in perfect-
ing and refining, that she may become with
him a participant in the glorious blessings
of that life which is eternal and without
parallell.
	According to the Bible, part of the curse
pronounced upon woman in the "Garden of
Eden" was that "her desire should be unto
her husband and he would rule over her."
Then was she not made equal with man,
and was it not through her agency that God
accomplished upon the earth the purposes
of its creation; for through her came the
knowledge of good and evil, without which
mankind could not have tested their integ-
rity before high heaven. And will it not be
through her devotion to God and her rev-
erence for all that is most holy and sacred,
that will most effectually influence man to
become pure, that he may again dwell in
Paradise.
	In what way can she best fulfill her sa-
cred and holy mission, and what should be
her highest ambition? This brings us back
to the point from which we started. That
woman should be a purifier of the moral
and religious atmospheres of society is
highly necessary. And what better proof
do we need of the merit of her work, than

[Column 2]
the testimony of men themselves who are
ready to acknowledge that without wo-
man's society man becomes coarse and un-
couth.
	What is this terrible fear men have of
woman's strength of mind and character,
which is almost universal? In both the
higher and lower classes of society, this fear
exists in about the same ratio. And even
men' who are extremely liberal in compari-
son with the majority, are continually on
the alert lest there should be a tendency in
THEIR wives and daughters to something
unfeminine.
	Is it not quite true that those men who
have left the best and fairest record of their
lives upon the earth, have been stimulated
to good, and strengthened in virtue, their
lives rounded and toned through the influ-
ance, and perhaps undemonstrative direc-
tion of woman, mother, sister, wife or
friend? Then why seek to rob woman of
the privilege assigned her in her creation,
to be a helpmeet? Why should she not
stand side by side with her brother, in all
questions of interest for the common weal?
For my part, I glory in the moral courage
which arms woman with sufficient heroism
to stand forth in her own defense, against
any invasion upon her inherited rights and
privileges. I know that although woman
may entertain some ideas that may not be
wholly consistent, yet out of the movement
which she is making to become more thor-
oughly developed and highly educated, will
yet spring a nearer conception of woman's
mission and work. Woman must eventu-
ally see (however distasteful to the opposite
sex the result may be,) that it is necessary
to possess sufficient strength of individual
character to protect her own purity and
chastity instead of relying upon the sterner
sex. Nor need man fear that a woman who
has all the attributes of mind under the
highest state of cultivation will be less cap-
able of loving a husband, for LOVE is a part
of her nature, inherent in her very being
which has been transmitted to her through
her divine parentage, and which also proves
her to be near akin to God, whom John the
beloved disciple describes in the 4th chapt-
er and 16th verse of his Epistle, thus, "God
is love."
	A higher education will not make woman
less capable of loving, but it will qualify
her to place her affections upon an object
worthy of the best and truest affections of
her womanly nature. Consequently men
who would stand high in woman's favor
must be in themselves more worthy, and
make for themselves a superior standard of
morals, and live by a higher law. And
when men can command by real merits the
admiration of woman, then will woman, if
she has lived up to her privileges, be ready
to stand by his side to counsel and advise,
to comfort and to bless.
	S. L. City, March 20th, 1876.


PETTY DESPOTISM.

	Even in these days of Centennial free-
dom, one is occasionally reminded that all
despotism, of various degrees, is not yet
dead.
	There is the despotism of society, which
issues irrevocable edicts, and forbids all in-
dependence of thought and action; banish-
ing the intelligent and refined who may not
possess the requisite amount of money, and
making abject slaves of its votaries.
	There is the despotism political, giving
ing power to one sex only, to make laws for
the other.
	There is the despot of art, who sneers at


every effort of those who are not already
distinguished in the field.
	There is the despot in literature, who
would, if possible, prevent every one ex-
cept a Tennyson or a Browning or a few of
our own eminent poets and authors, from
using the pen.
	If a girl possess a passion for painting,
even though her brush yield nothing but
daubs to the educated eye, let her gratify
that love; be sorry for her that she cannot
have the advantages she craves, but do not
tell her that chromos are quite cheap, and
infinitely superior to anything she can pro-
duce. If a poor man hangs pretty, cheer-
ful chromos on his walls, do not tell him
that he will vitiate the taste of his child-
ren by so doing, and that he ought instead,
to purchase good engravings. The eye de-
lights in color; even crude coloring is better
that none.
	If a wealthy man buys beautiful paintings,
as he can do even here in America, do not
insist that it is his duty to send them all off
to the auction-room, and substitute photo-
graphs of Sistine Madonna. If even a wo-
man feels thoughts firing her brain while
she is washing dishes, let her tell them to
the world if she can get the world to listen.
For we contend that the people, other than
the great lights of literature, do have
thoughts to express, and original ones at
that. Thoughts born of daily and hourly
experience; thoughts wrenched out of heart
and brain with such pangs that one is posi-
tive the roots were branching on their na-
tive soil, and were not the transplanted
growths of some ancient or modern mind.
If they chance to be similar it is not sur-
prising, but the originality is not impaired.
	In a recent poem by a great poet a few
lines are startingly similar to others in some
obscure verses printed some dozen years
ago. Of course no one could be so absurd
as to imagine that the poet had ever seen
those verses, but if they were to re-appear
now, some astute critic would express sur-
prise at the daring plagiarism of the rhym-
ster.
	The writer has never been a correspond-
ent of Dr. Holmes, and has never used the
words "lush and swirl," so the rhymed let-
ter in a recent "Atlantic" is no personal
grievance, but, in behalf of all new writers
who have thoughts, we would protest against
the injustice. Critics seem to forget that
our poets are mortal, and that each coming
cycle will refuse to be satisfied with even
their echoing songs; every time will count
its rising bands of living singers.
								KEO.
—Woman's Journal.


MEASURE the stone by your rule and not
your rule by the stone.
	ONE ungrateful man does an injury to all[--]
who are wretched.
	OLD men are like the wrecks of t[---]
thrown by the waves of one century upon
the shore of another.
	WE too often tolerate foolery out of com-
plaisance, and play the fool from the same
weak motive.
	IF you want to understand a subject, hear
a man speak of it whose business it is. If
you want to understand the man, hear him
speak of something else.
	THERE is no living creature that gives,
us such an idea of happiness as a bird, as it
skims on light wing along the ether, alights
on flowery shrubs, or on the springy bow of
a lofty tree, or dresses its plumage by a
fountain or a stream.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	167﻿


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORT.

			Goshen, March 14th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is doing well, and we
are making preparations to build a house
this summer to hold our meetings in &c.
Sister Taylor, our Secretary, is preparing a
full report of our Society which she will
send you.
	Our Young Ladies' and Young Men's
Mutual Improvement Societies are in a
flourishing condition. The young ladies
have started a paper entitled the "Young
Ladies' Gem" which contains some very
creditable pieces. Mrs. Christina Higgin-
son is editor; it is doing much good among
the young sisters.
	We are rather isolated here, being about
six miles from the main road through the
settlements, and it is seldom that we have
any of the Elders, or sisters of other Relief
Societies visit us.
	Should any of the sisters from Salt Lake
City be passing through the settlements at
any time, and it will be convenient for
them, we would be very glad if they would
call and see us.
	We received orders from sisters Smith
and Barney, (through our Bishop,) to make
some good strong durable clothing for the
Indians and now have on hand quite a
lot, which we will send down the first
chance we have. I would be very glad to
become acquainted with you, and all good
sisters who wish well for the prosperity of
Zion.
				Yours Sincerly,
					Mary Johnson.
Dear Exponent:
	I send you a report of the 20th Ward
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association,
which was organized Sep. 3rd, 1875, with 40
members, 55 having been added since.
	Our President and Counselors have mani-
fested a deep interest for the progress of our
meetings and their efforts have been suc-
cessful. A fund has been created for the
purpose of having means on hand when a
call is made to help the poor, or assist in
any good enterprise. The members express
their willingness to help and sustain the
president, showing by their obedience to
any call she makes; they take great in-
terest in these meetings realizing the good
they obtain by paying strict attention to
the instruction they receive.
	In conclusion I will say, temporally we
are poor, spiritually humble, and socially
ready at any time for the presence and so-
ciety of those who are capable of instruct-
ing us.
	Respectfully yours,
					R.E. MANNING
							Secretary.
	20th Ward, Feb. 28th, 1876.

		MANTUA, BOX ELDER CO.,
				      March 4th, 1876.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I have been thinking about writing for
some time, but have neglected it, not being
accustomed to write for a paper. I can truly
say I never felt happier than the day Sister
Eliza R. Snow was here to organize us as
a Retrenchment Association, and blessed us
with such great blessings which I can nev-
er forget. Therefore I feel to bless her and
our President brother Jenson for taking
such a deep interest in our welfare, and for
othsr things as well as having us organized
into these societies which is indeed a great

[Column 2]
privilege, as well as a great blessing to us.
I think it a pleasure as well as a duty to
send you a report of our society; we have
had very interesting meetings, a good spirit
always seems to attend there, even the
smallest girls arise and bear their testimo-
nies. And there also seems to prevail a
spirit of harmony and obedience. I think
they all try to please one another, as well
as the Lord. They also seem to im-
prove in speaking; and are willing to re-
trench from what is required of them. I
don't think there is one imported hat be-
longing to one of the girls in the society;
we also wear home-made dresses and shoes
for which we feel to honor our President
Lorenzo Snow, for his untiring efforts in
the behalf of our HOME MANUFACTURES.
I hope before long we will be more inde-
pendent as a community. We have also
stopped round dancing and close our parties
at ten oclock. We attend our fast meetings
and Sabbath meetings and Sabbath schools.
We dress plainly and I think we all try to
live our religion to the best of our ability.
	Let us be prayerful and try to live as
Saints, and practice good and useful things
while young, so when we grow older we can
look back and see our good works. I ask
the Lord to bless us all. And hoping you
will excuse this my first attempt,
	I remain your sister,
			MISS SOPHIA ANDERSON,
							President.


PINE CANYON, March 7th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I attended the Retrenchment meeting
this afternoon and President Miss Isabella
Martin requested me to make out a report
of our proceedings here and send it to you.
We meet together every two weeks and
enjoy ourselves in talking of the things per-
taining to the Gospel. The members of our
Society feel it a pleasure to comply with the
wishes of our beloved President Young
with regard to closing our parties at the
time appointed, and have made up our
minds to refrain from round dancing. We
advise the young sisters who have not yet
joined a Refrenchment Association, to do
so, for it will educate and prepare them for
duties in after life, and they will gain ex-
perience and confidence in these societies;
and when we are called to take active
parts in the Church and Kingdom of God,
we will have overcome that feeling of tim-
idity which is so trying to us all when we
arise to counsel and instruct each other.
We have in our society little girls from
eight to ten years of age, who arise and
bear their testimony when called upon, who
I am sure will be numbered with the noble
women of Zion, and will never forget the
influence for good which is now being im-
pressed upon their young minds. Our Re-
trenchment Association was organized June
23rd, 1874, with the following officers:
	Miss Isabella Martin, President,
	Mrs. Charlotte Steele, Supt.,
	"	Eliza Shields,
	"	Margaret Smith,	Counselors.
	"	Martha Shields.
	The hand of death has been in our midst
and has taken from us our beloved and ever
to be remembered Treasurer, Mrs. Martha
Smith, and another has not yet been select-
ed to fill her place.
				LIZZIE MUSSER, Sec'y.


"MARRIAGE," said an unfortunate hus-
band, "is the church yard of love"—"And
you men," replied his wife, "are the grave-
diggers."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Boiled Celery:—Take four or five roots of cel-
ery carfully washed and trimmed and boil in well
salted water for nearly half an hour. Drain them,
place on a hot dish, and pour melted butter, or a
white sauce flavored with some favorite seasoning,
over them.
	Aunt Mary's Pudding:—Butter a tart-dish,
sprinkle the bottom with finely minced candied peel
and a very little shred suet, then a thin layer of
light bread, and so on until the dish is full. For
a pint dish make a liquid custard of one egg and
half a pint of milk, sweeten, pour over the p[-]d-
ding, and bake as slowly as possible for two hours.
	Broiling Meats:—When meats are broiling on a
gridiron over hot coals, the sudden heat sears the
outside, which shuts in the juices, and the rapid
application of heat soon cooks the meat through,
if in [--]oderately thin slices. It is then tender and
palatable. Those who never broil their meat, fish,
or poultry, do not know the excellence of a prop-
erly-cooked dish of animal food.
	Condensed Eggs:—A process has been devised
in Europe for drying, by a gradual heat, the con-
tents of eggs, both white and yelk. The granular
powder thus produced only requires mixing with a
sufficient quantity of water to produce ready-beat-
en eggs capable of being used for puddings, cakes,
etc. A factory has already been established in
Bavaria for the manufacture, and it is expected the
product will soon be in the market.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Hints on Entering a Sick Room:—Never enter a
sick room in a state of prespiration, as the mo-
ment you become cool the pores absorb. Do not
approach persons afflicted with a contagious dis-
ease with an empty; nor sit between the sick and
the fire; because the heat attracts the thin vapor
which floats about the room.
	Hot Lemonade for a Cold:—Hot lemonade is one
of the best remedies for a cold, acting promptly
and efficiently and leaving no bad effects; squeeze
one lemon properly, cut in slices put sufficient su-
gar with it and cover with a pint of boiling water.
Drink it just before going to bed and be careful
not to expose yourself the next day. It will of-
ten prevent attacks of chills and fever.
	Transplanting Tissue:—The transfusion of blood
from a healthy to a feeble person is a well-known
surgical operation, as is also rhinoplasty, or mak-
ing a new nose out of flesh of another part—usu-
ally the arm—of the same patient. The progress
of science has advanced beyond this, and diseased
bone can be cut out and a piece of periostrum or
bone membrane placed on the spot, which induces
the growth of a new bone to replace the old.
Lately in Dublin, a surgeon dissected a piece of
membrane from a rabbit's eye, and planted it upon
a woman's eye, where it took root, so as to speak,
and grew; while, in Vienna, there have been many
cases where success has attended the transplanting
of certain mucous membranes to replace ulcered
surfaces. "Skin-grafting," is also a recognized
surgical operation.


DIVERSIONS.

	AN impossible quantity.—Too much
money.
	WATERING places that remain open all
winter—The mouths of milk-cans.
	IN what place are two heads better than
one?—In a barrel.
	RELATIONSHIPS are rather far-fetched
sometimes, both in Ireland and Scotland.
"Do you know Tom Duffy, Pat?" "Know
him is it," said Pat, "Shure he's a relation
of mine! He once wanted to marry my sis-
ter Kate."


168		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CULTIVATE THE MIND.

	AN ESSAY WRITTEN FOR, AND READ BE-
FORE THE 20th WARD Y. L. R. A.

	The one great cry of the world to-day is
education; and we do not differ from the
rest in this particular. Most of the lectures
and sermons we hear [-]reat more or less on
this subject. When we are exhorted so
much, I think we as obedient children should
strive to obey. It is for our welfare and al-
so for the good of future generations.
	But the question may arise how shall we
arrive at this stage of culture. By reading
light literature that fires the imagination
and builds false hopes that can never be re-
alized or attained to? Emphatically NO!
This destroys rather than improves the
mind. It does not awaken the reflective
organs or give rise to elevating thoughts.
But still, although this fact is so well known,
this trash finds a ready sale, while the
church books and other solid works are neg-
lected by the young. How frequently we
hear the expression, "I can't!" from persons
called upon to perform some duty. Have
they cultivated the abilities God has given
them, to enable them to accomplish what
duty calls for? Our talents are not given
us for our own special use but for each to
benefit the other. How often has the world
been benefitted by the ideas of one man.
The inventive man for instance, by the aid
and application of labor wins for himself a
name that will ever be honored and respect-
ed. The same can be applied to ourselves;
if we store our minds with knowledge
that will be beneficial to the society in
which we move we will be accounted as
general benefactors. Let us endeavor to be
self-made, there is more glory in mounting
the hill through our own perseverance
than if we had crowds helping us. Never
indulge a doubt; fathom beyond them; if
questions arise in your minds, never let
them slip by as being of no consequence,
this is an error that a great many do not ob-
serve until it is too late. To enable us how-
ever to solve these problems, we must em-
ploy our time in useful research upon the
subject that is so incomprehensible to us.
We should take these things into considera-
tion. We go to meeting to learn and many
times we get an idea that is puzzling in its
nature, and as I said before let us employ
a few leisure moments in study, until we
have surmounted the difficulty. Observe
this and every experience will be to us a
means of advancement.
	The world looks upon us as being ignor-
ant. Certainly we have not, in the past,
had the advantages which the present op-
portunities offer us. But God has given to
the children of the Latter day Saints supe-
rior intelligence and they understand the
things of eternity to-day, better than the
wise men of the world. And if they im-
prove their talents in such a way as to win
the approbation of God, He will give them
more; and in a short time through His in-
strumentality they will far excel the world
in every respect.
	Let us so live that we may have God's
Holy Spirit to dictate to us, that our light
may shine before all men.
								R. M.
	20th Ward R. A. S. L. City.


A CHILD'S INQUIRY.

	A mother the other day in the presence
of her children was speaking of a pleasant
ride she had taken some years before; when
her little daughter of three summers not


hearing HER name mentioned as being one
of the party, looked up with an earnest in-
quiry in her dark eyes, and asked, where
was I mama, why didn't you take me with
you? The mother placing her hand lightly
on the little head replied, mama had no
little girl then, you my dear, was with your
Father in Heaven. Assuming an air of
proud satisfaction the little one said, well
where did you get me from then, and what
did He send me to you for? Her last re-
mark made a deep impression on the moth-
er's mind. Yes, what was she sent for? do
we realize the weighty responsibility rest-
ing upon us as mothers? Do we fully un-
derstand why those precious jewels were
entrusted to our care? Are we striving to
the best of our ability to so train their
minds and guard their conduct, as to bring
them up a blessing to us, their parents, and
an honor to society. Do we kneel often in
humble and fervent prayer, earnestly plead-
ing with our Heavenly Father that He will
help us bring up our children in the path
of righteousness? If we are doing this, it
will be well with us, but if we are not who
can say that we shall escape the agony and
bitterness of spirit which will be a sure
consequence of our indifference or neglect
in so high and holy a calling.
	By a mother.
							H. K.
	Santaquin Feb. 25th, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are put at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory wo[-]k and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send you orders to	C.R. SAVAGE
		Salt Lake City, Utah.

Now Receiving at
TEASDEL'S,
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
	Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House. 

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House. 

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Or a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD. Four 
doors below Walker House, and examine our
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
	Wm. H. MILES. Supt. 

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE
23, MAIN STREET,

[COLUMN 2]

MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City. 

MRS. C. E. DYE, 
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbon. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and 
price.	17, East Temple street.
	TEMPLE OF FASHION. 

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

TO THE LADIES!

TAYLOR & CUTLER
Have just received a large stock of SPRING GOODS of
all kinds, NEW STYLES, PRINTS, FANCY DRESS
GOODS, LADIES NECK TIES, and a full stock
of DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, &c., which we
are selling very cheap.

THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonabio-
priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Finding and Kit at Moderate Rates.
	D.M. McAllister. Supt. 

LADIES.
If you want your husbands to have a good substantia.
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

H. E. PHELPS,
	29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

