VOL. 4		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1875.		No. 2.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A PROSPECTUS has been issued of a daily
morning newspaper, to be published in San
Francisco, and called the "San Francisco
Democrat," devoted to current news, and
the interests of the democratic party.
	THE "OVERLAND Monthly" for June,
closes the fourteenth volume. It is steadily
improving and always contains interesting
and valuable articles.  Its writers are through
its columns, establishing a successful literary
reputation.
	THE JUNE number of "Harper's Maga-
zine" commenced the fifty first volume of 
this popular and interesting work. It de-
servedly occupies a place in the highest
rank of American Literature, its circulation
is larger than all others of its class com-
bined. Its contributors are all persons of
superior intellectual, and educational attain-
ments.
	DORA DARAMORE'S "Golden Dawn" has en-
tered upon its second volume. Journals
devoted to the interests of women, and con-
ducted wholly by them, are springing up
among the cultivated and thoughtful of our
sex; not aspiring to usurp or infringe upon
the rights of men, but honorably and effi-
ciently to maintain and dignify our own.
	MRS. S. R. WELLS, widow of Professor
Wells lately deceased, has announced her
intention of carrying on the business her
husband had so firmly and judiciously es-
tablished.  We heartily commend her wise
policy, and while we would condole with
her in the irreparable loss she has sustained,
we also wish her the success and patronage
she so truly deserves.
	MISS MINNIE Conway of Brooklyn, will
take the place prominently occupied by her
mother, (now deceased) in the management
of the Theatre. Mrs. Bateman of London,
has also resolved to assume the manage-
ment of the Theatre left by her husband.
These are certainly women of energy and
determination, and there can be no doubt,
they will feel far happier than in sitting
down and repining, at the Providence of
God.
	MISS ANNIE Dickinson delivered an ad-
dress before the National Temperance Con-
vention in Chicago June 3rd, in which she
asserted that crusaders and temperance
meetings have had very little effect in
checking the evil of intemperance; that po-
litical organization and influence would be
the only sure means. It was resolved that
the convention, request the next Congress
to prohibit the manufacture and sale of all
alcoholic spirits within the boundaries of
the United States; and use their united in-
fluence to bring about this most desirable
change in the American Republic.
	MRS. CAROLINE M. Severance ex-Presi-
dent of the New England Woman's Club
with her husband and a party of friends,
visited our city on her route to California.
This noble and accomplished woman has for
many years been an efficient writer, speak-
er and worker in woman's cause; she deserv-
edly merits all the high enconiums of praise
that are lavished upon her from all sides,
[Column 2]
where woman's talents are being recognized.
She expressed herself pleased with, and in-
terested in the improvement in our beauti-
ful city, and was gratified to learn that we
were so successfully advancing in the inter-
ests of education, and general cultivation.
She manifested the most sincere apprecia-
tion of our efforts in Journalism, commend-
ed our course enthusiastically and wished
us unbounded success. She is certainly one
of the most attractive and highly cultivated
women we have ever met, and we shall re-
member with much pleasure her words of
encouragement. In her tour through the
city she was accompanied by Mrs. Varnall,
of Washington, a lady of considerable cel-
ebrity, who is also interested in Women's
Work.


[For the EXPONENT]
	EXCURSION TO LAKE POINT.

	The beautiful spring weather which we
are enjoying, together with the innumera-
ble facilities for amusement which our city
and its suburbs contain, seem to invite at
present the patronage of those who love
innocent enjoyment.  Lake Point seems to
be the favorite resort, and excursions and
picnics to that place are of frequent occur-
rence.
	On Monday the 31st ult. another grand
excursion party of two hundred and fifty
persons under the supervision of P. S.
Horne and O. F. Whitney took the Utah
Western train and rode across the country
to Clinton's; where they arrived soon after
9 o'clock. Immediately afterwards the
party boarded the fine steamer belonging to
Mr. Jno. W. Young, (since christened "Gen.
Garfield") and sailed away from the harbor
amid the shouts of the men, the gay laugh-
ter of the ladies, and the delicious music of
Daynes' full quadrille band stationed on the
hurricane deck of the boat.
	An exhilarating sea breeze was bearing
down from the north and for four hours the
gay excursionists continued, in dancing, and 
various ways to enjoy themselves. With
the exception of a few cases of sea-sickness
nothing occured to mar the pleasure of the
time.
	Dinner was served at Clinton's Hotel—
after which the ball room, and Ice cream
room below, became the centres of attrac-
tions until 6.30 p. m., when a longing for
"Sweet Home" took possession of the souls
of our pleasure wearied fellow-citizens; and
taking their seats in the cars they were
soon whirling away towards their homes;
which they reached tired and sleepy—but
quite willing at some future date to "try it
again."
	Among the party conspicuous in their
uniforms, was the crew of the "Water
Witch;" a portion of the "Utah Yacht Club."
This little boat with its crew sailed from
the mouth of Jordan River on the morning
of Sunday the 30th ult., entered the Salt
Lake; stopped on the way at Church Island;
and made Clinton's Landing in the evening.
						    O. F. W.


THE longest word in the English Lan-
guage is Smiles; because there is a mile be-
tween the first and last letters.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Stephania Wolicka of Warsaw has
received the degree of Dr. of Philosophy
by the Faculty of the University of Zurich, for
a very commendable and accurate disserta-
tion on the condition of the Grecian women.

	DR. Frances Hoggen of London, reports
that "in that city women physicians receive
the same fees as men." She says micro-
scopic specimen mounting is an employ-
ment particularly appropriate for women of
refinement.

	MRS. L.H. Stone of Kalamazoo Mich. de-
livered a lecture on the "Origin and devel-
opement of Art," to the Ladies' Literary So-
ciety of Grand Rapids, on Thursday even-
ing May 20th, which is said to have called
forth the highest praise and admiration of
an attentive and appreciative audience.

	MRS. Comstock an efficient temperance
lecturer, states that she has visited 115,000
prisoners in America; and of these 105,000
have been convicted directly or indirectly
through drink.  The workhouses were also
largely peopled from the ranks of intemper-
ance.

	MISS Ronian of Providence R. I. having
experience as clerk in one of the finest
drugstores in that city, is now apothecary at
the Rhode Island General Hospital, having
the whole charge of that department. She
is said to be the only lady apothecary in the
city, and is studiously pursuing the study
of German, in order to more efficiently
qualify herself for the work.

	MISS Stebbins one of our most highly cul-
tivated and truly gifted women has written
recently referring to the deaths of celebra-
ted and useful women who have been taken
from our midst this last winter; her words
are touching and appropriate.  She says; "It 
seems as though this unprecedented win-
ter has been one rough tempestuous wind,
beating on the tree of life and shaking off
its choicest fruit." Four women whose lives
have fallen with the winter storms, we
shall vainly yet longingly look for, as for
the coming flowers of spring.  What James
Freeman Clarke said of one of them Susan
Dimock, was characteristic of them all. "So
filled with a desire to help her suffering sis-
ters."

	THE Seventh Anniversary meeting of the
New England Woman Suffrage Association
commenced Monday evening May 24th, in
Tremont Temple, Boston, Mass. Mrs. Ju-
lia Ward Howe presided.  The meeting was
one of vital importance to the women of
America; many celebrated speakers ad-
dressed them from time to time; and con-
siderable business was transacted.  Officers
were chosen for the coming year. Bishop
Gilbert Haven of Georgia in the opening
session, spoke warmly, eloquently and com-
mendably in favor of "Woman Suffrage;"
he says "There is a moral instinct about
woman that is needed." Women will rep-
resent the home, the family, the church,
education, peace and purity, and the same
good man also says; "We want deliverance
from heavy burdens, and we can only ob-
tain it by the help of women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


﻿[For the EXPONENT.]
JUNE, QUEEN OF SUMMER

Softly tread 'midst buds and roses,
	Fragrant with the breath of June,
Blossoms teeming o'er with sweetness
	Redolent with Spring’s perfume.

Crowning glory of the summer,
	June, the Queen of Nature's bowers!
Buzz of bees, and insects murmur,
	Songs of birds beguile the hours.

In the gloam of early evening,
	Softly falls a radiance fair;
Nature's jewels—dew-drops sparkling
	Fairy foot-prints everywhere.

Listen closely to the zephyr,
	Faintly breathing God is here,
And the echo's answering murmur,
	Angels' voices lingering near.

June 11th, 1875.				EMILE.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment
Association held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms May 29th, 1875 was once
posessing the characteristics of a spirit of
enterprise and energy in the work now be-
ing engaged in with united effort by the
societies of sisters, namely, the HOME INDUS-
TRIES.
	After the usual ceremonies and reading of
minutes by the different secretaries, the
president Mrs. M. L. Horne expressed her-
self highly edified with the minutes of the
young ladies; spoke of her sorrow on ac-
count of President George A. Smith's illness
and her desire that all present should pray
for his restoration to health, if it was the
will of God. With a few other impressive
remarks she gave tho meeting into the
hands of the sisters and also invited Presi-
dent Joseph Young who was present to ad-
dress the congregation; he very cordially
responded to the invitation, and addressed
the sisters in a very earnest and forcible
manner. Counselors P. Woodruss, E. How-
ard, E. R. Snow and Z. D. Young, Mrs. W.
East and E. S. Barney each spoke con-
cerning the work now in progression; Coun.
Z. D. Young alluded particularly to those who
were asleep in Zion, apparently inspired to
arouse the sisters upon that subject.
Throughout the meeting every one seemed
actuated in speaking, to drift into the same
channel and true union of interest and feel-
ing prevailed.
		NORTH OGDEN, MAY 6th, 1875
DEAR EXPONENT:
	We though we would try to interest
your readers with a few words from the 
young Ladie's Retrenchment Association of
North Ogden.
	We number 58 members, we have held
10 meetings only, we were organized March
4th, 1875, under the direction of Prest. C.
H. Wheelock who has really been a father to
this people here; he has aroused a feeling of
interest in all matters of improvement
and worth.
	On Sunday the 18th of March, there were
59 baptized on the 25th, 49 more were added
to the church.
	On the 16th of last month we were favor-
ed with a visit from Sr. Eliza R. Snow and 
Sr. Howard from Salt Lake City, and Sr.
Richards and others of Ogden; they at-
tended the Relief Society meeting and had
a good time.
	They also met with out Retrenchment
Society and gave us some excellent counsel
which we all appreciated; both meetings
were well attended.
[Column 2]
	Sr. E. Barney also paid us a visit on the 
22nd, and assisted us in our duties by her
timely counsel and advice, encouraged us to 
enter into HOME INDUSTRIES, showed
us how to commence and left with her a 
us a spirit of enterprise; we now re-
alize the importance of manufacturing
all we can, and thus be more independ-
ent; steps are being taken in that direction.
	We feel to ask the Lord to inspire these
sisters to go among the people and continue
their labors, for we know they are blessed
of the Lord, and we hope ere long they will
again visit North Ogden.
	When ever we meet together we talk of 
the refreshing time we had with those tal-
ented sisters; and we pray for their welfare
and the prosperity of all that labor for the 
good of the Saints and the building up of 
the kingdom of God. We enclose our reso-
lutions and though we are young beginners
we feel that we may not be the least, after a
while.
	Respectfully,
		EVA E. CHADWICK President,
	GEORGINA SPARKMAN, ELLENOR BER-
RETT Secy's.
	Resolutions of the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association of North Ogden
March 31st, 1875.
	1st. Resolved, that it shall be the duty
of the President to attend, and preside at all
our meetings, and if she is necessarially de-
tained, it shall be the duty of some of her 
Counselors to preside in her absence.
	2nd. Resolved that we will keep good or-
der in our meetings, and they shall be con-
ducted with singing and prayer; and that 
we seek for the spirit of the Lord to direct
us in all we say and do.
	3rd. Resolved that we will daily attend to 
our prayers, and live our religion to the best
of our ability, and do unto others as we
would wish to be done by.
	4th. Resolved that we embrace as articles
of our faith the Bible, Book of Mormon,
Doctrine and Covenants, and the standard
works of the Church with the preachings of 
the Presidency and recognized authorities.
	5th. Resolved that we will retrench from 
the use of bad language, from speaking evil
of our neighbors and associates, and from
speaking against any of the doctrines or 
principles of our faith; and that we will
avoid loud laughter and every thing that is
unbecoming and unchristian like.
	6th. Resolved that we will read good
books, and attend Sabbath School, and meet-
ings whereby we may obtain good instruc-
tion, and our associates shall be those of our 
own faith.
	7th. Resolved that we will endeavor to 
keep the Word of Wisdom according to the 
spirit and meaning thereof.
	Eva E. Chadwick President,
	Martha Michael,	}
	Elizabeth Chadwick,}
	Esther Chadwick,	}	Counselors.
	Isabella Crandal	}
	Sarah Jane Wades,	}
	Emily Knowles,	}
	Georgina Sparkican Ellenor Berret Secy's.
	ROCKPORT May 10th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the sisters of the Relief Society of 
Rockport held our second annual meeting on 
May 6th when Bishop S. Atwood from Kam-
as and Bishop Bryant of this place were
present; also Mrs. M. J. Atwood President
of the Relief Society of Kamas accompa-
nied by Ann Harder and sister DeLuce.
	They gave us much valuable instruction
upon the privileges, blessings and duties of
[Column 3]
the Gospel and the Societies. The report of 
our society read by the secretary showed the 
funds left in the Treasury amounted to 
fifty-eight dollars and forty-five cents. We 
have had more of the sisters join our so-
ciety in the last year, and though there are
but few of us in our little settlement we 
strive to be united, and hope by the bless-
ing of our Heavenly Father, to hold out
faithful to the end that we may obtain that
crown of glory laid up for the faithful. We 
receive much valuable instruction through
the columns of the EXPONENT, which we 
ought to practice as sisters in the Kingdom
of God. We wish you success in your en-
terprise at all times and humbly subscribe
ourselves, Your Sisters in the Gospel.
	ANN BRYANT President, Elizabeth Ver-
non and Alice M. Malon Counselors, Char-
lotte Merehat Treasurer, Sarah Staker,
Secretary.
			FAIRFIELD MAY 3, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It is rarely that any thing of note occurs
here, but the recent visit of sister Snow to 
the Relief Society in this place was a pleas-
urable break in our usual monotony.  She 
held two meetings, one with the Relief So-
ciety on the afternoon of Thursday April
22nd, and another in the evening, of a more
general character, at which the attendance
was very large.  At her request many of 
our young men were present and she ad-
dressed them very earnestly, giving them
excellent counsel, (as also to the sisters pres-
ent), one of our Gentile residents after-
wards observed, "he had never heard bet-
ter preaching" At the close of the meeting
she spoke of her desire to organize a Re-
trenchment Association, if it was agreable
to the feelings of those she was addressing,
and requested all the young ladies that were
in favor of such an organization to meet
with her on the following morning April 
23rd. A considerable number met at the 
appointed time and a Young Ladies Re-
trenchment Association was organized with 
the following officers.—
	Mrs. Agnes Young President,
	"  Elvira Healy,	}
	"  Zilpha Young,	}
	Miss Sophy Snider, }	Counselors.
	"  Sophy Bessinger, }
	"  Mary Carson,	}
	Mrs. Amanda Barlow,
	Miss Ada A. Kendell, Secretary,
	"  Jemima Savage Assistant Secretary.


EXTRACTS.

	FROM THE BROOKLYN JOURNAL OF
			EDUCATION.

	Underlying all the great questions of sci-
ence, religion, government and society,
which at the present day engage the
thoughts and actions of the best men and
women of the land, are those of Heredity,
Hygiene and Longevity. Not yet fully
recognized by the majority of people as of
vital importance, still they insinuate them-
selves into every discussion and into all
statistics. Being vital questions, they will
assert themselves, and in time, the specula-
tive mind will necesarially start on its
journey, only after having carefully consider-
ed the laws of reproduction, transmission,
the preservation of health, and life—and of'
decay.
	Man’s responsibility to his Creator, for
the care and preservation of his own life,
and that of others, will be clearly defined.
Natural laws will supplant society laws.
The apparent conflict between Science and


Religion becomes less and less distinct.
Part of the money now yearly spent in im-
proving breeds of animals, applied to physi-
ological training and education of children,
would indirectly do much to settle the
questions of the duty of individuals to the
government, society and themselves, of the
co-education of the sexes, and of woman's
sphere. As forerunners in the physiologi-
cal and hygienic discussion, which has
been inaugurated, have appeared "Sex in
Education," Sex and Education," "Build-
ing of a Brain," and "The Education of
American girls." Sex has been the stumb-
ling block. Ably has the subject been hand-
led on both sides, and out of the combat
comes the fact that Americans are becoming
sensible of physical and mental defects—in
American men and women, where hereto-
fore has been mainly a mutual admiration.
	Sex is so enveloped in the questions of
inheritance, longevity and disease, and it
has been made the cause of all the evils
which happen to women in all the various
toils of life.
	Given, a boy and girl of equal health, the
same inherited health, and with identical
surroundings, if both are physiologically
educated, the result, in effect, will be the
same, bearing in mind the difference in
physical organizations.
	Strong mental influence or will, may
force a feeble body into unnatural vigorous
work, for an uncertain time. A powerful
bodily vigor may carry for a season, a feeble
intellect, as a strong river current might
bear a frail, badly equipped vessel upon its
waters, only to be shipwrecked when opposi-
tion presented itself, or strength to meet
emergencies became a necessity.
	Brain work demands good healthy blood,
and this can only come from food that is nu-
tritious, and that the stomach can digest,
yet this fact is unknown, to or unheeded by
many.
	As bearing upon the question of the edu-
cation of the sexes, the following extracts
from the essays of the various well-known
female contributors to the "Education of
American Girls," are of value.
	"To us, as women, as wives, as mothers,
as older sisters, as friends, as teachers, as
college girls, as school girls, and to us alone,
the settlement of the question has at last
been fairly handed over. We have only,
in all these relations, to learn the laws of
physical health and to obey them, and the
whole matter will be set at rest forever."
	*	*	*	*	*	"When our
women are better educated, there will be
less prudery and more real modesty."
	*	*	*	*	"the work must
be begun early in life, and the mind of the
girl must be braced by a recognition of
natural law to the acceptance of all the con-
ditions of her nature. But for this, she
must learn to distinguish between the
ideal and the actual, between woman’s, na-
ture, as God designed it, and her nature, as
long years of hereditary sin and disease and
false custom have made it. It helps us
very much to learn the how, even if we can
never solve the why."
	Mind and body depend for strength, upon
each other; health is largely the result of
physiological education or the observance of
Natures laws; usefulness in any sphere is
best attained through healthy lives.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN economical farmer's daughter in
Massachusetts put off her wedding day be-
cause eggs were up to forty cents a dozen,
it taking two dozen for the wedding cakes
and pudding.


﻿VISIT OF GEN. GARFIELD.

	Gen. J. A. Garfield, member of Congress
from Ohio, reached our city on his way East
from California, Friday morning, June 4th.
His Excellency Gov. Axtel, Delegate Can-
non, Mayor Wells, Elder John W. Young,
and other prominent citizens of Salt Lake,
and the members of the City Council went
to Ogden to welcome him. In the after-
noon, a complimentary excursion to Lake
Point was arranged in honor of his arrival.
	Among the invited guests, were his Ex-
cellency Gov. Axtel, Justices' Emerson and
Boreman, Secretary Black, Gen. Smith, Dr.
Vollum, and several other officers civil and
military. Mayor Wells, Hon. George Q.
Cannon, Elder Orson Pratt, Erastus Snow,
John W. Young, A. M. Musser, Bishop John
Sharp, and members of the Common Coun-
cil, were nearly all accompanied by ladies.
Among the strangers were, Mr. and Mrs. L.
P. Sage, from California.
	The entire company was very select, and
occupied seven cars well filled. Clinton's
landing was reached before four o'clock;
soon after nearly all the party went on board
the steamer and sailed away towards
Church Island. The Lake was unusually
quiet, the sea breeze fresh and exhilarating,
the company animated and social; every-
thing was conducive to pleasure and enjoy-
ment. Generous supplies of cake, ice cream
and refreshments suitable to the occasion
were served on the steamer. After re-
maining out about an hour, the steamer an-
chored again at the pier, where it was pro-
posed the boat should be re-christened in
honor of the distinguished Delegate, he
being the first Member of Congress who
had honored the boat by his presence. Ac-
cordingly, the owner of the boat, Mr. John
W. Young, proposed that Mrs. Horace S.
Eldridge being the eldest lady present
should break a bottle of "champagne" and
amid loud cheers, the gallant little steamer
received the name of "Gen. Garfield." Mr.
John W. Young then suggested three cheers
in honor of Mayor Wells, and three in hon-
or of his Excellency Gov. Axtel.
	The party was one highly enjoyable, and
all with one accord pronounced it a complete
success. On the way home, a committee
was appointed to arrange another trip for
the next morning, to go on the Southern
train to Provo. Gen. N. Kimball and Dr.
J. P. Taggart formed the committee. Ac-
cording to the programme arranged, the
pleasure party went South on the morning
train, and reaching Provo the party visited
the factories, and other places of interest,
and returned home about one o'clock. In
the afternoon  Gen. visited the most no-
table places in the city, called upon Presi-
dent Young, and visited the theatre in the
evening. Sunday, Gen. Garfield, in com-
pany with his Excellency Gov. Axtel at-
tended the meeting in the Tabernacle.


FLORAL HINTS.

			ST. GEORGE May, 27, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT;
	Trees, vines and plants are now in their
brightest glory of verdure, and bloom of
beauty and fragrance. And it is delightful
in the early evening of a day when Sol has
awakened the dormant mercury and sent
it bounding up to 90° and over, to trace the
garden walks, bordered with thousand-hued
flowers, to breathe their delicious odors
which calm the nerves and cause us to for-
get corroding care, and allays the irritation
from disappointments or the annoyances of
persons and circumstances around us.


We have many and many a time, been
asked by otherwise intelligent people, when
looking over the garden of floral lovliness 
“Does this pay?” and “how can you afford
to spend so much time and money on your
flowers?” As though the world and hu-
man life were made up of dollars and cents
—As though our mission here was to col-
lect creature necessties, and banks of gold
only—as though beauty, lovliness, taste, re-
finement—and the delighful converse with
nature, were only the needless superfluities
of the visionary.
	Do such people ever recollect that we are
created with two eyes, and but one mouth—
and therefore should have twice the
amount of things of beauty which are a
joy forever, we need for the mouth.
That we have two organs of smell and may
enjoy twice as much in fragrance as in eat-
ing our food?—That we have two ears pro-
vided to give us pleasure in sweet sounds
of music, the joyous langauge of birds, and
dear voices in converse with our friends?
	Do such people care to know that the as-
sociation with the beautiful in nature, with
flowers, delightful plants, sweet soothing
music, together with the influence of good
women, are the great powers that smooth
the roughness, give taste, polish, finish
and refinement to otherwise coarse, selfish
and uncongenial natures, and cause the dis-
tinctive line between mankind and the
lower animals.
	We think it just as necessary for our com-
fort, well-being, usefulness and longevity
here on earth to have ready for our enjoy-
ment the, beautiful, lovely, and soothing in
nature, as food, raiment and etceteras that
make up domestic requirements.
	We plant flowers, nurse them, and care
for them because we love their beauty, their
fragrance their soothing, softening influence;
their moral and refining tendencies.
	Children should be taught to love, and
cultivate them, the types of purity, inno-
cence and heaven. And they will be bet-
ter than those who have no taste for flowers.
Mothers see to it, teach your boys while
they are with you, first to love, then to plant
and nurse flowers, and when they go out
alone into the world, there will be a deep
lasting remembrance of a home, a mother
and lovely flowers that will be a restraint to
keep them from many an evil. Yes make
home beautiful and enticing, and the child-
ren will love, cherish and long for it. 
							FLORA.


TRIBUTE TO A MOTHER.—Children, look
in those eyes, listen to that dear voice, no-
tice the feeling of even a single touch that
is bestowed upon you by that gentle hand!
Make much of it while yet you have that
most precious of all gifts, a loving mother,
Read the unfathomable love of those eyes.
the kind anxiety of that tone and look, how;
ever slight your pain. In after life you-
may have friends, fond dear friends; but
never will you have again the inexpressible
love and gentleness lavished upon you
which none but a mother bestows. Often
do I sigh in my struggles with the dark,
uncaring world, for the deep sweet security
I felt when, of an evening, nestling in her
bosom, I listened to some quiet tale, suitable
to my age, read in her tender and untiring-
voice. Never can I forget her sweet glan-
ces cast upon me when I appeared asleep;
never her kiss of peace at night. Years
have passed away since we laid her beside
my father in the old church-yard; and still
her voice whispers from the grave, and her
eye watches over me, as I visit spots long
since hallowed to the memory of my moth-
er.—Lord Macaulay.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT
				L. GREEN RICHARDS, Editor.
			CORNELIA H, HORNE, Business Manager.

			Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
		Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $3.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
			Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
			Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

			SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 15, 1875.


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.

			GENERAL.

	The fifty-ninth Anniversary of the Amer-
ican Bible Society was held at Chicago Tues-
day May 25th......The Grand Master of Free
Masons in Iowa has decided that dancing in
the Lodge room is inconsistent with the
good of the craft.........Ex-Gov. Bullock
of Mass. will deliver the oration before the
"Phi Beta Kappa Society" of Brown Uni-
versity at the next commencement......An-
other steamship the Germanic of the White
Star Line, is on her way from Liverpool to
New York, the largest afloat except the
Great Eastern......The Sioux delegates have
left Washington and are on their way home
......Extensive wood fires are raging on the
Union river Maine......Half the town of
Great Bend, Penn. was destroyed by fire
Saturday, May 29th, loss about $125,000
......The Libby Elevator in Brooklyn, Iowa,
was burned Wednesday, May 20th; loss $50,
000.......Mrs. Lucy Redington, widow of
thelate Gen. Redington, has filed her applica-
tion for letters of Administration upon her
husband's estate, it is the largest estate ev-
er acted upon in Sacramento Co. Cal.......
The silk merchants of New York are com-
bining for protection against smugglers......
Mrs. Genan of Cleveland, Ohio, was mur-
dered by her son-in-law May 30th......The
Viceroy of Egypt has resolved to construct
a railroad along the valley of the Nile to
the interior of Africa......A new Masonic
Temple was dedicated in New York Wed-
nesday June 2nd, with great pomp and dis-
play......A deputation of the London Anti-
Slavery Society presented a memorial to
Lord Derby asking government interference
to stop the civil war and the slave and coo-
lie trade......The public debt was reduced
nearly $1,200,000 during the last month......
The official inquiry into the loss of the
steamer Schiller has been commenced in
England.......Judge Milton formerly Chief
Justice of Mass. is dead......The Colorado
Stock and Exchange Board opened at Den-
ver City June 1st.
			FOREIGN.
	An international congress on the history
of America before its discovery by Colum-
bus, will meet in Nancy France, July 22nd
......In the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Ireland there are only 137 daily news-
papers published......Moody and Sankey
continue their daily revival meetings with-
out any diminution, Earl Shaftesbury,
Lord Cairns, Earl of Craven and many
clergymen, have been among their hearers
recently......Forty-six paintings and sketch-
es by the late J. T. Millet, were recently
sold in Paris for 276,000 frances......A mag-
nificent new building has been commenced
in Southampton, Eng. to be called "The
Watts Memorial Hall and Sunday School"
......Mr. Leigh Hunt, grandson of the fa-
mous poet, recently committed suicide in
London......The English Arctic Expedition
left Portsmouth on the 29th of May......
Three hundred and three women contribu-
ted to the Fine Art Exhibition this year in
Paris......The Theatre Royal at Lieds, Eng.
was destroyed by fire recently......Prince
Bismarck has dissolved the German Press
Bureau......The King and Queen of Swed-
en have visited Berlin, it is said their visit
is a manifestation of Sweden's support of
the three Emperors......There was a serious
fire at Guelph Ontario recently......A fire in
Portland N. B. May 28th, destroyed $250,
000 worth of property, 140 families were
rendered homeless......Cholera prevails in
the city of Baroda, India......500 persons
have been attacked with small-pox and 161

[Column 2]
have died of it recently in Andenne Lorette
The monetary panic in Rio Janeiro is sub-
siding......The family of Captain Hall, the
Arctic explorer, has been presented with a
gold medal by the French Geographical
Society......The money contributed to the
memorial of Canon Kingsley in Eng. now
amounts to $5,290......Woman's Suffrage
has suffered another defeat in England......
Gov. Jovellar formerly Cap. Gen. of Cuba,
has been appointed to command the army
of the Centre of Spain......Prince Batthy-
ani's colt "Galopin," won the Chief Derby
stakes at the recent Derby races......The
corporation of London has resolved to in-
vite the Mayor of New York to the inter-
national municipal banquet next month......
J. M. Sweeney, one of the alleged ring
thieves of New York died in Paris re-
cently......$200,000 damage by fire at Hull,
Canada, and $50,000 at Hamilton, Ont.......
The Laborers Federal Union of Great Brit-
ian intend sending delegates to examine
the Mississippi Valley, with regard to mak-
ing settlements......There is a report of a
heavy cyclone on the Chinese coast which
wrecked several vessels......The Emperor
of Prussia has conferred the ordeer of ivil
merit on Hon. George Bancroft historian,
and Henry W. Longfellow, poet, of America.
			PERSONAL.
	Colfax made 6,000 lecturing last winter
......Charles A. Dana of The sun, has gone
to Europe......Mme. Demorest, accompanied
with Miss King is taking a tour through
Mexico.........Max Muller is journeying
through Italy and receiving the greatest re-
spect......Mr. Trenor N. Park of Benning-
ton, Vt. Is said to be the fourth man in
point of wealth in the United States......
His property is valued at $17,000,000......
James T. Fields of Boston has received
invitations from nineteen colleges to de-
liver lectures in July......Mr. Ralph Waldo
Emerson, attained his 72nd birthday May
26th......Stephen S. L. Hommedieu died at
West Point, May 26th, he was one of the
pioneers of Cincinnatti and for many years
President of the Cincinnatti; Hamilton and
Drayton railroad......Commodore Vander-
bilt was eighty-one years of age on Thursday,
May 27th......Judge W. L. F. Warren, one
of the oldest and most eminent of the citi-
zens of Saratoga, died recently at the age
of eighty-two years......Rev. J, Houston
Ecceleston, D. D. of Philadephia, has been
chosen Bishop of the Diocese of Iowa......
Mark Brown, convicted of the murder of
Gloester Carrin in Sullivan County, New
York, Oct. last, is sentenced to be hung in
Monticello, July 31st......Dr. Saville the In-
dian agent in Northwestern Neb. has re-
signed his position.....Col. H. T. Temple-
ton died in San Francisco, Friday, May 28th.


The Cincinnati Musical Festival opened
on the 11th of May and was held four days;
the chorus numbered 825 voices and the
band 102 pieces.  It is said to have rivaled
in its character and importance the most
ambitious efforts of New York or Boston and
even the achievements of the great choral
festivities of England.  The streets were
decorated as if for a great victory; every
public building was hung with banners,
streamers and festoons, and the locomotives,
steamers on the river and even the street-
car horses were ornamented for the occa-
sion. The most difficult pieces were ren-
dered with such perfect success that corres-
pondents are at a loss for words to fitly praise
the performance. The festival ended with
"Prometheus." The audience, which con-
sisted of more than 8000 persons, were en-
thusiastic in their applause.


GIVE FREELY.

	It is a well understood and beautiful truth,
that there are many blessings, of which, the
more bestowed upon fellow creatures, the larger
become the stores of those who impart. And
these are ever the brightest, dearest and sweet-
est gifts of God to His children; such as wis-
dom, love, hope, and the sunshine of the heart.
	When a kindred human is seen in trouble, it
need not cost a cent to offer words of encour-
agement and consolation worth thousands of 
dollars. It costs nothing indeed, but such words
are never given without recompense. See the
tired, careworn housewife, whose "work is
never  done," sink wearily down at evening,
with the common, comfortless "O dear! I've
been busy as I could be all day long, and yet I
have done nothing!"
	Do not let her fall asleep with that cheerless
impression, if you are blest with power to, re-
move it. And you are if you have ever watch-
ed the daily course of a faithful wife and moth-
er, and if you have a heart that can feel and
appreciate, and a tongue that can speak. Ask
her who it was that this morning tenderly
awoke the precious lambs who lay so quietly
sleeping in the low trundle-bed, with kisses and
loving words, that they might not be "too late
for school, and miss the pretty prizes so anx-
iously awaited? Who, though hurried with
breakfast that papa might be at his work in
good season, still found time to soothe Jennie's
grief over her tangled curls, and to help comb
out the snarls. To find careless Willie's jacket
that "would always get lost however much
pains were taken to  put it safe at bed time!"
And to show Sue the easiest way of finding out
that "hardest sum that ever was!" which she
could not possibly get through her sleepy little
head the night before?  Breakfast over and
the children gone to school, who brought baby
in from the street a dozen times or more, that
he might not be run over by wagons or carria-
ges; from the water that he might not paddle
and take cold; who fed him, sung him to sleep,
and attended to all his infant needs? And who
has thus followed up the thousand duties nec-
essary to be looked after in the home circle,
each trifling in itself perhaps, but altogether
amounting to a good and noble day's work?
	Tell her these things are not considered as
"nothing," by the great and all-wise Father who
has granted us each a probation here, that we
may work.  That if we work wisely and well,
no matter what our employment may be, the
Father is satisfied with us.  Tell her that to
raise a family of children, directing them in
the proper channel, is as great a work as the
Lord has assigned to any of His sons and
daughters. Cheer her sinking spirits, enliven
her wearied soul, administer to her freely and
without stint and you will find yourself doubly
refreshed and blest.
	So with all who labor or repine, who grieve


or fret or in any wise find life burdensome.
Lift them up. Comfort and encourage wher-
ever you can, and especially in your own home
circle.
	Husbands, cheer your wives. Make them
feel that you appreciate their efforts to make a
home-heaven for you and your children, though
the world knows nothing of them. Wives,
never offer other than sweet words  love, and
bright, sunny smiles to the men you have cho-
sen as companions. Parents, be patient and
long-suffering with the children God has en-
trusted to your care. Never miss an opportu-
nity of teaching a child a truth and the value
of it, no matter how small, for all truths are
important. Lead the children in the straight
and narrow way, remembering ever that to
lead, you must precede them.
	By the spread of truth, will wickedness be
swept away, and the Millennium brought
in.  Therefore, give freely of the good within
you, thus increasing light and beauty around
you, as well as your own store.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		AN AUTHOR'S MIND.

	When one sits down to write an article, so
many subjects crowd upon the mind, and clus-
ters of ideas amalgamate themselves together,
that to seperate them into distinct file, and give
each set of items their proper place and care-
ful thought before putting them upon paper, is
an undertaking which none realize, save those
whose minds are fruitful in spontaneous pro-
duction, and have not been subjected to sys-
tematic training.
	When the spirit of inspiration is upon us we
may have wisdom to cull the choicest frag-
ments of our thoughts and frame them fitly
together, so as to produce perfect harmony of
language and ideas, but there always seems so
much to write about, that this culling, fitting
and systematizing is really difficult.
	Watts gave many useful lessons in reference
to this subject, in his work entitled; "Watts on
the Mind," but we sometimes think he lived
in a different day and a slower age; in this
generation everything rushes headlong, and
our ideas seem to follow the same lead; instead
of clear, distinct and definite steadfastness to
our subject, we grasp a heterogeneous mass, and
try to express more than our space or time will
admit of; the same fact is apparent in regard
to sermons, verbal or written; the speakers take
a text, and launch forth amidst an ocean of
ideas, a sea of words, and the space is so broad,
that unconsciously they drift about, and lose
sight of the starting point.
	To tell a great deal in a few words, and in
choice language accurately, is a very desirable
acquirement, and should be regarded as a su-
perior accomplishment.  It is extremely pain-
ful to listen to a fact, or an anecdote, from one
who is unable to convey the true meaning,
without a multiplicity of words and phrases
(not always fitly chosen) which have no real
bearing upon the subject in question.
	These are some of an author's troubles;
thoughts which come crowding up in throngs,
harassing the brain, and struggling for a defi-
nite existence. We are infected, and we know
it, but tell us, is it not verily true, that a theme
is often carried out beyond, or beside, or even
against its original purpose? We think there
are good critics, who will testify with us, that
the title page, the preface, is often a vision of
the future unfulfilled.
	However, we were treating of an author's
mind, which resembles not an empty tene-
ment, but "a barn stored to bursting;" it is a
painful pressure constraining to write, perhaps

[Column 2]
involuntarily; memory, imagination, zeal, per-
ceptions of men and things, a crowd of inter-
nal imagery, and we write to be quit of them,
and not let the crowd increase.  And now let
us elucidate our own, such as it is, richer or
poorer, better or worse, "a medley of crudities,"
a power to be exerted, which opportunity hath
not yet matured; sometimes it is well to go dis-
guised, to address the judgment unbiased and
unsanctioned by name; only of one thing be
sure, we desire to keep inviolate, as much when
masked as when avowed, the laws of truth,
charity, sincerity and honor, to exert at all
times an influence for good, to maintain a strict
adherence to the principles of the Everlasting
Gospel.
	To cultivate, as highly as possible, the raw
material furnished by the heart's own foun-
tain; to select all the most precious and beauti-
ful metals which are combined in the mine of
the human soul, and labor to separate them
from the base alloy; to cull from the greener
garden of thoughts, the freshest and rarest buds
and blossoms; bear then, with this desultory
illustration of a momentous subject, and mer-
cifully spare our individual tender conscience
your literary censure.
	Be not offended when we tell you, that we
pray to be preserved from gossip, from scandal,
from self-conceit, from the love of praise; that
we may speak kindly of those, whose wit and
genius and graphic powers, help to smooth the
rough places in life, and to give cheerfulness to
the heart of mortals; the brilliant, the clever,
who overflow with mental affluence. And
now, dear friends, be assured, we have shown
you our honest mind; perchance you may
think wearily enough we have disposed of our
subject, but recollect if you, our fellow-labor-
ers, are not like-minded, or like-fitted, cour-
teously consider and freely forgive for mutual
unlikeness; and if together our track lie, along
the great high road, remember, good critics,
"there is room and work for all;" after a little
perhaps, your patience may find us better;
much to say and well witting how to say it, it
may happen at some future time, to amplify
and  perfect and gravitate into something of
order these crowding fancies; but in as frank
and artless a fashion as heretofore, we would pub-
lish our confessions, our humbleness; not for-
getting the scraps of paper covered with half-
written thoughts, powerful gusts of feeling, "a
half-made progeny."
	Let us hasten to be practical; meanwhile a
brighter prospect glows in the distance, for
those who are earnest and devoted in the good
work of refreshing mankind, advancing knowl-
edge, consoling sorrow, blessing humanity; for 
all such there is certain success, a rich recom-
pense, a glorious reward.
	June 8, 1875		E. R. Wells		B. B.


[Column 1]
﻿			HOME AFFAIRS.

	MONTGOMERY QUEEN'S Circus and Menage-
rie are expected in this city soon, and have an-
nounced their appearance June 21, 22 and 23.
They are on their way East, from California.
	HON. SETH Paddlesford, ex-Governor of
Rhode Island, with a party of ladies and gen-
tlemen from Providence, called upon President
Young recently, while on a visit to our city;
Gov. Axtel accompanied them; the party also
visited the Theatre in the evening.
	MRS. JAMES A. Oates., with her comic opera
troupe, commences this evening, June 15th, a
short series of popular entertainments in the
Salt Lake Theatre. She ranks highly among
artists of her type, and will no doubt be thor-
oughly appreciated, as our citizens seem to 
possess a rare taste for highly finished acting.

[Column 2]
	MR. E. W. Tullidge left this city Wednesday
evening, June 9th, for the East to make ar-
rangements for the publication of his new his-
torical work, to be entitled "The Founders of
Utah." It is anticipated, judging from his
well-known literary ability, that this work is
accurately and attractively written.
	WE ARE most happy to announce that the
health of President George A. Smith is steadily
and gradually improving; he is now able to ride
out occasionally, and all things being propi-
tious, it is probable he will soon be permanently
recovered. The Saints have great reason to be
thankful that the Lord has seen fit to spare to
them, this great, good and useful man.
	PLEASURE PARTIES, picnics and out-door ex-
cursions seem to be "the order of the day" in
this most delightfully pleasant month. Sun-
day Schools, Literary Societies, Good Templars,
Masons, and various different clubs, institu-
tions, etc., and private parties,all seem desirous
to improve the halcyon time.  Among the
most favored resorts are Lake Point, Lake side,
Farr's Grove, Spring Lake and Lindsey's Gar-
dens.
	A FRAGRANT and beautiful bunch of flowers
from the "Glendale Gardens," was placed upon
our table a few days since.
Where once the sage-bush grew in lonely solitude,
Mocking the winds that shook its gray and shaggy coat,
The florist's care has loveliest garlands strew'd,
And softest, sweetest perfumes, summer zephyrs float.
	We are indebted to Mrs. Wm. Wagstaff for
the kind favor of the beautiful bouquet.
	THE EXAMINATION of six young ladies who
have been for three years engaged as pupil
teachers at St. Mark's School, took place Satur-
day, May 29th; Bishop Tuttle, Professor Turner
and Miss Cole conducted the examination,
which reflected great credit on the institution,
and also upon the young ladies themselves, as
their success proves them to have been ener-
getic and industrious.  The young ladies are,
Misses Inez Earl, Ellen Huey, Mary and Katie
Ferguson, Agnes Lynch and Hannah Dawson;
they are now prepared to fill the position of
teachers, by practice and theory.
	TOURISTS, TRAVELERS and pleasure-seekers
now a days, give Salt Lake a call on their way,
and manifest considerable interest as well as
curiousity in our city and its institutions; the
hotels are fast filling up, and they are still com-
ing.  The prospect is, we shall become better
understood by people of cultivation and refine-
ment. Among the recent arrivals are two sis-
ters of the Order of the Holy Cross, Mother,
Mary Augusta and Sister Raymond; they are
from St. Mary's, South Bend, Indiana, and are
at present the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Marshall.  Their design is to establish a school
in this city, under the auspices of their church.
	MONDAY EVENING, June 7th, a number of
ladies and gentlemen, interested in the subject
of sericulture, met per appointment in the 
City Hall, for the purpose of arranging matters
to establish a society to promote the manufac-
ture of silk, in its various stages of production.
A. M. Musser, Esq., was chosen Chairman,
and Mary Carter, of Bountiful, Secretary of
the meeting. Persons who were present relat-
ed their experience with regard to the subject
before the meeting, and made some statements
encouraging to those entering upon this branch
of HOME INDUSTRY. Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs.
M. I. Horne and Mrs. E. S. Barney were chosen
as a committee to obtain means to procure ma-
chinery and so forth, necessary to forward this
laudable undertaking.  It is believed by those
best acquainted with the silk manufacture,
that this climate is well adapted to the necessa-
ry resources for its production. In some for-
eign countries it is a source of immense wealth;
and with patience, energy and perseverance
may eventually, become a success in Utah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


INVOCATION.
[TUNE—GOD SAVE THE QUEEN.]
O Lord bless Brigham Young!
(From Saints of every tongue,
		Let this ascend;)
Thy spirit light his way,
Be thou his guide and stay,
And guard both night and day,
		Him to defend!
Grant he may live to see
Thy Saints in unity,	
	Go hand in hand;
When we are one in Thee,
We shall our triumph see,
Thy name shall honored be,
		In every land.
When thus our work is done,
Having the victory won,
	Saints meet again,
Keeping this still in view,
Whatever others do,
Let us stand firm and true
		Amen! Amen!
				WILLIAM GIBSON.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Sponge Cake.—Three eggs, one cup of flour,
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half tea-
spoonful soda.
	To Remove Ink from a Carpet.—Make a paste
of arsenic and water, apply it, wash off and put
on more.  After three or four applications the ink
will disappear.
	Molasses Cake.—Take two cups of molasses
and one half-cup of shortening, and add as much
flour as you can stir in; then add two cups of
boiling water, in which you have dissolved one
large teaspoonful of saleratus.
	To extract ink from cotton, silk and woolen
goods, saturate the spot with spirits of turpentine
and let it remain for several hours; then rub it be-
tween the hands. It will crumble away without
injuring either the color or the texture of the arti-
cle.—Ex.
	To Color Furs Black or Brown.—Take ten grains
of gallic acid, ten of tincture of iron, and one
ounce of acetic acid. Dissolve the gallic acid in
the tincture of iron, and add the acetic acid, and
apply with a fine comb.  If black is desired the
furs must be moist, not wet; but if brown, the furs
must be dry.
	How to Keep Eggs.—We know of nothing bet-
ter in which to preserve eggs than lime water and 
salt.  Take a half barrel and put into it two
quarts of fresh lime, pouring upon it a pail or two
of warm water and stirring until thoroughly dis-
solved or slacked.  Add to this a gill of salt and
then fill up with water. The eggs may then be
packed in jars, tubs or another half barrel, and
when in position pour on enough of the solution to
cover them.  There is no danger of making the 
mixture too strong of lime, but too much salt will
discolor the shells.  When the eggs are taken out
for market they should be washed clean and dried
before packing again.
	Pie Crust.—The most healthy pie-crust is made
of thin, sweet cream and flour, with a little salt.
Don't knead thin. Bake in a quick oven. An-
other way is to sift a quart or two of flour in the 
pan. Stir in the center a little salt and a half tea-
spoonful of soda well pulverized. Now put in the
whole a cup of soft (not liquid) lard, or butter
and lard mixed, stir it thoroughly with the flour;
next add two scant cups of good sour milk or but-
ter-milk. Stir all quickly with the flour, in such
a way that you need hardly touch it with your
hands till you can roll it out. Bake quick. This
will make three or four pies.
	Old Potatoes.—Potatoes, to be good should
never be exposed to the light, but be kept in as
dark a place as possible.  After they begin to
pront in the spring, they should be taken up


from the bins or heaps and kept in boxes or bar-
rels. If you have a few barrels saved out for
family use, instead of picking them over and
spreading them every few weeks, put them into
enough barrels, so you can turn them from one to
another.  This keeps them moving so often that
the sprouts cannot grow enough to do much harm.
The sprouts which come from the potato use up
the nourishment which it contains and leaves it
soft, watery and insipid.  By treating them as
proposed above, they may be kept in condition
for the table several weeks longer than by sprout-
ing them, and at the same time save a deal of
work.


HYGENIC NOTES

	NERVOUS HEADACHE.—Nine-tenths of
all persons who suffer with nervous head-
ache might be permanently relieved by at-
tention to the laws of hygiene, to cat, sleep,
breathe and live correctly.
	FAST LIVING means spending vital force
in excess of the vital income, ending in
physiological bankruptcy.  It does not nec-
essarily apply to a young rake who spends
his life in low pleasures.  It applies to any
one, who lives beyond his physiological in-
come.
	DIFFERENCE IN PERSONS.—People in a
very exhausted condition, by excesses, over-
work, etc., have little power to throw off
trivial diseases even, and the reverse is also
true.  Thus some persons die with trivial
diseases, and others live with the most dan-
gerous ones.
	WEIGHT OF BRAIN.—The weight of the 
brain varies less than the body with varying
conditions. At thirty, on the average, the
man has attained his maximum of brain
and mental power; at fifty he has less brain
and mental force than he had between
twenty and twenty-five.
	GETTING RID OF BAD HABITS.—Risingabove them is better than fighting them.
Infinite toil would not enable one to sweep
away a mist, but by ascending a little you
may overlook it all together.  So it is
with our moral improvement; we wrestle
fiercely with a vicious habit, which would
have no hold upon us, if we ascended into a
higher moral atmosphere.
	LABOR AND LONGEVITY.—Work by
method and on system, even when severe,
is not only quite compatible with long life,
but it is actually conducive to it, while the
torpor of idleness, or the excitement of fitful
effort are the sure precursors of senile de-
generation. This is a useful doctrine to 
preach, and still more useful to practice.
	DRUNKENNESS AND DISEASE.—There is
no doubt whatever, that drunkenness, in
that ungovernable stage in which the vic-
tim cannot restrain himself from drinking,
is a disease of a most serious character.
The condition of the brain is one of great
and distressing exhaustion.  Alcohol tem-
porarily relieves it, by increasing the heart's
force and dilating the arteries, only to make
the matter worse in the end.  The true
method of curing such cases is by rest and
wholesome food, restoring the system to
health by hygienic measures as rapidly as
possible.  The use of the Turkish bath in
such cases has proved highly useful.


IN vain do they talk of happiness who
never subdued an impulse in obedience to a 
principle.  He who never sacrificed a pres-
ent to a future good, or a personal to a gen-
eral one, can speak of happiness only as the
blind do of colors.


For the Exponent.
		MY MOTHER.

	Dear young readers, being highly pleased
in reading the resolutions entered into by a 
portion of the young ladies of Utah, please
allow a humble writer to drop a few words
from experience. I once had a mother who
like yours, was the best of women; she
extended to me her faithful love and care
in sickness, health and childish errors,
through infancy and childhood, and when I
began to go in young company which is an
important period to our future life, mother
chose my company; (we then knew noth-
ing of so called Mormonism,) and I must
never go without hers or fathers consent,
and the time for my return was set; I must
shun those who indulged in unbecoming
conduct. At times I thought, why is moth-
er so strict with me, why not I, like others,
have pleasure without so much restraint;
and I thought, when I am a few years older
I will have my own way a little and get
along just as well too; however mother's or-
ders must be obeyed, if not, certain penalties
were attached.  But dear reader the older I
grew, the more I saw wisdom in mother's
particular government over me, for I have
known good young women who have been
indulged to associate with those who revel
in unlimited gaiety, soon become the sub-
jects of reproach; then getting discouraged
would say "I care not for what is said about
me;" hence by keeping improper company
many good young ladies and gentlemen too,
have fallen.  But to conclude my narrative
after my marriage which was in my nine-
teenth year, mother said to me, "you have
been obedient to your parents," and she gave
to me a book which was given her by her
brother in the twelfth year of her age A. D.
1805. I felt happy to hear mother talk thus
and the little treasure I still keep.  But alas a
sorrowful hour came, which to me had al-
ways looked far off, when my dear parents
went to rest, and ah the many places I can
now see, where I might have saved mother
from weary steps had I been more thought-
ful, but permit me to repeat as a sister has
said girls: "help mother in her many toils."
Remember the poem which says of a truth:
	"Who sat and watched my infant head
	When sleeping on my cradle bed
	And tears of sweet affection shed?
							My Mother
	When pain and sickness made me cry,
	Who was it sang sweet lullaby,
	And wept for fear that I should die?
						My Mother &c.
	A wise man once said, "honor and obey
thy father and thy mother in the days of
thy youth that thy days may be long etc."
	Oxford, May, 1875.		M. A. B.


ANDY JOHNSON’S MODEL DAUGH-
			    TER.

	How Andy Johnson's daughter used to
run the White House was thus pleasantly
told by Ex-Senator Doolittle in a recent ad-
dress:
	"Whatever may be said in criticism of Mr.
Johnson's public course, all parties agree
that the White House was never more
gracefully kept and presided over than by
his daughter, Mrs. Patterson—a perfect
lady, a model of a republican mistress of the
White House.  Let me tell a fact which has
never been published, but which I had from
the lady's own lips.  Just as she was about
to leave, at the end of Mr. Johnson's admin-
istration, the steward of the house took an
inventory and found that not one article of
furniture was missing or broken; not a


sheet, towel or napkin was lost; and the
house was in perfect order from top to bot-
tom. She told me another fact, which I
know the wives and daughters of Wisconsin
will be glad to hear:—When they went in-
to the White House she purchased two ex-
cellent cows.  From the milk of these cows
she made all the butter used, all the cream
and made all the ice cream used in the Pres-
ident's family during his term. When she
went home she shipped these cows to Ten-
nessee. Is it any wonder, ladies, that Mrs.
Patterson received the first premium on but-
ter at their Fair last fall?"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WIFE OF THE SECRETARY
			OF THE NAVY

	The Washington correspondent of the
Cincinnaiti “Gazette” writes: "Mrs. Robe-
son seems to possess the fountain of eternal
youth, bubbling in its pristine freshness,
concealed somewhere within the generous
curves of her fine, portly person.  She en-
joys the society of young persons in the
most thorough manner, and what is rarer
still, the young people heartily reciprocate
the sentiment by being completely fascinat-
ed with her. Her hair is 'silvered o'er
with the frosts which come to all in the au-
tumn of life, but the frosts have mellowed
and ripened, not shriveled or pinched or
hardened any feature or feeling. Her name
might well be attached to the list of those
illustrious women whose fascination grew
with increasing years, like Mme. Recamier,
Cleopatra, Helen of Troy, and dozens of
others. Secretary Robeson was long and
deeply in love with the widow, Mrs. Aulick.
The young girls tried in vain to catch an
encouraging glance from the rotund bache-
lor Cabinet officer, and thereby build many
exquisite "chateaux en Espagne," through
which they might move in queenly grace
as the Naval Secretary's bride. But the
gentleman in question had eyes for but one
woman, and that woman a widow, with
dawning streaks of gray in her hair, evinc-
ing that the mild twilight of life had com-
menced.  After a perseverance worthy the
cause, Mrs. Aulick consented to become
Mrs. Robeson, and has filled her position of
Mrs. Secretary with rare dignity and satis-
faction.  When first married, the husband
and wife seemed as delighted and jubilant
as persons many years younger.  I have
seen them walking in the early morning,
somewhere in the vicinity of their resi-
dence, hand-in-hand like two children, and
laughing with an infectious merriment."


ENDURANCE OF THE SCOTCH
				GIRLS.

	The average Scotch girl is full of spirit,
life, and sunshine.  She can do a fair
amount of dancing during the season, row
a boat, tramp over a Highland road, or get
up a picnic party during the summer
months, without the slightest injury to her
complexion or her health. Up to a certain
age, as Dr. Clark says, the life of a Scotch
girl is calm and peaceful.  When she enters
upon the business of life she is no longer a
child. When she marries she is fitted to
enter upon that holy step, not a shattered
spectre with a pulseless soul, but as a woman,
strong in mind and body, and of mature
judgement. It may be said that our coun-
trywomen in the rural districts are some-
what coarse and masculine.  It is true that
their hands are often hard from daily toil,
and their arms and fingers are scarcely in
accordance with the Grecian line of beauty.


Yet there are many comely maidens among
them for all that; bonnie lasses with won-
derful complexions, and dazzling cen.  But
what matters it to sensible men, who have
brains enough to appreciate the difference
between a delicate doll and a healthy help-
meet.  There are volumes of common sense
in their honest noodles, and oceans of love
in their warm and constant hearts.


A BRAVE HOSTESS.

	John B. Gough, in his recent lecture in
New York, related the following story: An
L. L. D. was dining at the table of a lady
who, when Gen. Grant was spending two
days at her house, refused to tolerate one
drop of wine or spirits on her table; and
who, when about to entertain the British
nobility, as she did, and they inquired,
"Can you entertain Lord So and So?" re-
plied, "I can; but it must be understood
that neither wine, ale nor spirits are offered
in my house." This gentleman referred to
was at her dinner table, and said: "I en-
joy a glass of wine, and I have got in the
habit of using it." She said, "I shall give
you no wine." "Now," he said, "by and
by you will take from us all our luxuries. I
think wine promotes digestion. Did you
never hear of a man who could not eat
cheese without hurting him? then I sup-
pose you would deny me cheese." She re-
plied: "Did you ever hear of a man stand-
ing under a gallows and saying to the wit-
nesses of the execution, 'Now, my friends,
take warning by me, and never eat cheese?'
Or did you ever read in the newspapers
when a man was murdered in the streets
that 'those men had been eating cheese?'
Show to me that cheese produces eight-
tenths of the crime, seven-eighths of the
pauperism, one-half of the lunacy; show to
me that cheese produces the results that
drink does, and by the grace of God I will
battle the cheese just as hard as the wine."
—"Herald of Health."


FACTS AND FIGURES
	ACCORDING to the last census in England
and Wales, the females of the population
outnumber the males by 500,000; but above
the age of twenty-five the males exceed the 
females in number. While there were 400,
000 widowers, there were 873,000 widows.
Above the age of ninety, females number
two to every male.
	AT the annual meeting of the Young
Women's Christian Association of Boston,
recently held,  the receipts for the past year
were stated to be $55,763, including a loan
at $35,000. The amount of $48,686 had
been paid on the home; the expense of car-
rying it had been $11,283.
	AT a recent municipal election in Eng-
land, out of 1000 women on the register,
516 went to the polls, which was but 48 less 
than the proportional number of men. And
out of 27,929 women registered where a con-
test occurred, 14,416 voted. Of men there
were 166,781 on the register, and 90,090 at 
the polls.
	FRANCE, in 1770, had a Landed Feudal
Nobility, she had 164,000 land holders.
England had a Landed Feudal Nobility
with about 156,000 land holders. To-day,
France has 5,000,000 land holders. Eng-
land less than 63,000.
	The people of France are growing rich,
the people of England are fast becoming
paupers. Three-quarters of them are al-
ready so.


In France women control and regulate
opinion. It has long been an aphorism in
France. "L'home fait le lois." "La Femme
fait le moems.
	In England, My Lord makes laws, man-
ners, opinions and wealth; for aristocracy
and manufacturing control, absorb and en-
slave England.
	The reason France has broken her fendal
chains, rooted out her law of primogeniture
and distributed her land among 5,000,000
land holders, is solely attributable to the in-
fluence of woman. Woman in France is
the encouraging element, and France gives
social customs, manners, science, and opin-
ions to the world.
	Thus it is that just in proportion as jus-
tice is done to woman; has liberty, inde-
pendence and elevation followed. England
still regards the wife as the property of the
husband, the idiot, the slave, the nonentity
of legal existence. England has receded.
France has advanced.


FLOWERS.

	HE that preaches gratitude pleads the
cause both of God and men; for without it
we can neither be sociable nor religious.
	FANCIES are the blossoms of facts; purer
and lovelier for their strong hold on truth,
just as the fairest roses are grown in the fin-
est soil.
	LOVE is the fruit of the soul, that when
friends drop away (as leaves thinning) is
more perfectly ripened by the sun that
reaches it from on high.
	CHARACTER is the eternal temple that
each one begins to rear, yet death only can
complete. The finer the architecture, the
more fit for the in-dwelling of angels.
	IT is the most beautiful and humane
thing in the world to mingle gravity with
pleasure, that the one may not sink into
melancholy and the other rise up in wanton-
ness.
	ONE of the saddest things about human
nature is, that a man may guide others in
the path of life without walking in it him-
self—that he may be a pilot and yet a cast-
away.
	STRIVE, strive, my soul to be innocent;
yes, beneficient! Does any man wound
thee? Not only forgive, but work into thy
thoughts intelligence of the kind of pain,
that thou mayest not inflict it on another
spirit. Then its work is done; it will never
search thy whole nature again. Oh, love
much and be forgiven.
	TRUE POLITENESS.—This crowning grace
of character cannot be acquired by the study
of books of etiquette. They indeed are use-
ful as manuals of social intercourse and may
help one in the observance of conventional
rules, but they cannot make the true lady
and gentleman. Genuine politeness strikes
its roots far below the surface, deep in the
heart and blossoms but in all the little acts
of life.


MRS Edna Cheney has been giving a ser-
ies of conversational parlor lectures in De-
troit, to very select companies; her subject
was "Art and Artists."
	POOR Irish woman with six children to
railroad ticket agent: "Please sir, give a
poor widdy with six orphan children a
ticket to Milwaukee?" Ticket agent:
"What have I to do with your orphan chil-
dren? I ain't their father, am I?" Woman:
"That you ain't, sir; their father was a da-
cent man."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.

	A CELLEBRATED barrister was in the hab-
it of saying, "I always study the feas-ibility
of a case before I undertake it."
	"MY dear sir," said a candidate to a wag
on election day, "I'm glad to see you."
"You needn't be," replied the wag, "I have
voted."
	THE young man who asked the daughter's
hand and got the father's foot, had the con-
solation of knowing that his wooing was
not bootless.
	EVER since we have heard of the Maine
editor named T. Pot, we have been filled
with anxiety to know if a trifle would make
him boil over.
	"Why did you pass yesterday without
looking at me?" said a beautiful woman to
Talleyrand. "Because, madam, if I had
looked I could not have passed."
	THE following notice, written on the door
of the village school, would seem to indi-
cate that the schoolmaster was abroad: "Kea
at the woden house necks door."
	A YOUNG lady while out walking heard
for the first time of her mother's intention
to marry again, and she was obliged to sit
right down and cry about it.  She could
not go a step-farther.	"Now let us talk about your business af-
fairs," said a sharp Connecticut girl to a
young fellow, after he had proposed mar-
riage to her in a long address, filled with ex-
pressions of passionate love.
	IT is reported that a somewhat juvenile
dandy said to a fair partner at a ball: "Miss,
don't you think my mustaches are becom-
ing?" to which Miss replied: "Well sir,
they may be coming, but they haven't ar-
rived yet."
	"AND now, Mrs. Sullivan," said the 
counsel, "will you be kind enough to tell
the jury whether your husband was in the
habit of striking you with impunity."
"Wid what, sir?" "With impunity." "He
was, sir, now and thin, but he sthruck me
oftener wid his fisht."


LITTLE LETTERS.

	HUNTSVILLE, OGDEN VALLEY, May. 
							   10th, 1875. 
DEAR EDITOR: 
	I am a little girl eleven years of age.
We get along very well in Huntsville. We
have had a hard winter, but now spring has
come again, the trees and grass are green,
and men are working in the fields and 
planting gardens.  We have a beautiful
little valley surrounded with mountains.
We had a large funeral yesterday of a very
respected brother, Christian Jensen; he was
fifty years of age; there were thirty teams
that followed him to his grave.  His death
caused a great mourning over our place. 
	My aunt likes your paper very much; it 
gives her such good instructions, and she
delights in reading it.
	We have a young girls' society, and we
are braiding some straw and piecing up a
quilt. 
	Wishing your valuable paper success I 
am, 		Yours Truly:
			JOHANNA PETERSEN LUND. 

			S. L. CITY, June 11th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I am only a little girl and have never
written many letters, but mamma wants
me to write to the EXPONENT,  to encourage


her little girls to express their feelings;
I like to read the "Little Letters" I see
published, it makes me feel as though all
little girls everywhere, talked and acted
something alike.  When I was a very little
girl indeed mamma called me her little Gay;
because I was such a merry little creature;
but I grow so fast I am almost ashamed, be-
cause I am not as good as I ought to be. I
want to be very good indeed; I go to Sun-
day School, and try to understand all that is
said there, and attend our Retrenchment
Meetings, and feel so happy in them. I
hope now that the little girls in the country
will write nice little letters to the paper, and
tell us all about their pleasant homes, and
the woods, groves, canyons and beautiful
streams of water.
	Wishing all the little children in Utah
may grow up to be good and useful, I will
say					Good Bye.
						From LULU


TWILIGHT.

	The blessed time when even the tired
mother feels she can clasp her baby to her
bosom, and listen to the prattle of her child-
ren, and rest!
	As I sat thus one evening, looking upon
the twilight star that trembled like a gem
in the West, clasping my darling baby,
whose lovely lashes were fast seeking the
downy cheek to find the sweet rest afforded
innocence in sleep, my little four-year-old
came, and with suspicious yawn, begged for
a story.  "What shall it be my son?"
"About Jesus mamma."  So I told him in
simple language, the touching story of our
Redeemer.  His eyes never left my face
while I was speaking, and every word
seemed to sink deeply into his little heart.
The story done I left him, with such a
thoughtful look on his sweet face, to put
baby to bed.  Soon I heard him coming and
with streaming eyes, he looked into my
face for sympathy.  "What ails my boy?" I
asked.  "Oh mamma" he sobbed, "I can't
help crying to think our Savior died for us!"
I clasped him in my arms, thanked God for
such a treasure, and prayed I might have
wisdom to ever keep that love alive in the 
tender heart of my child.	My tears flowed with his, and the pathetic
solemnity of that little scene will ever live
in the memory of,
					WINNIEFRED.


For the EXPONENT.
		ANSWER TO INEZ.

	The word "strong minded," as I apply it, and 
as Inez defines it, is very different in its meaning.
I should consider a woman such as she describes
as a strong minded lady, as noble minded, and one
worthy to be imitated.  Strong minded, is an ob-
jectional term to me, for it brings to my mind,
women of the type I have mentioned, although
not necessarially scolds, or uneducated.
	Over twenty years ago, I was acquainted with
the Woman's Rights movement in the States.  It 
was then beginning to be agitated, and from that 
time to this, it has been growing, until it has ac-
quired its present notoriety.  Some of their ideas
are good, some are simply ridiculous, and some are
pernicious, and directly contrary to the gospel.
The idea of women educating themselves practi-
cally, and mentally, is excellent, while to encourage
women in wearing or imitating the dress of man is
ridiculous, and the theory they uphold that wo-
man is equal with man, and has just as much of a
right to govern man, as man has to govern woman,
is wrong.
	The Lord told woman in the garden of 
Eden, her husband should rule over her, and that,


with the rest that was told her, has descended to
her daughters, and we are not exempt. But
where is the man, living in the light of the
Lord, that would rule in tyranny? Love
would be the law of his household, and words of
kindness on his lips; while obedience springing
from love would not be galling.
	We, as Latter-day Saints, should be guided by a
higher power than the Gentiles are, and should
not plunge blindly along, with the cry, "women
have been in bondage, and the day of liberty has
come!" What bondage have the women of
the Latter-day Saints been in? What lib-
erty has burst upon us suddenly? I feel no
more of the sun's rays now, than years ago, no
more liberty, no more freedom.  We have our
agency, and let us use it wisely. Let us be
noble minded, acquire knowledge and all will be
well.
						EMILY B. SPENCER
	St. George.


EVERY DESCRIPTION
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
	GENERAL DRY GOODS!
Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
		H. E. PHELPS,
			29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE and RETAIL FUR-
		NITURE DEALER,
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS,
		WALL PAPER AND BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, and 79, First South Street.
			CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume.
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	  34 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscrition is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the Ex-
ponent favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
therwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

