Body," republished from No. 13, Vol. 2, of your
Journal. The cause assigned for its reproduc-
tion in your paper is, that "Saints and strangers
were so interested" in its statements, and it
had been so often called for that republication
was decided upon.
	I sincerely regret that this demand should
have arisen, I had hoped that after its first pub-
lication it would have slept and never been
awakened; but the fact of its having been so
repeatedly called for, places me under obliga-
tions to correct the minds of the Latter-day
Saints in relation to the doctrine contained
therein.
	On some future occasion when I have time I
may possibly take up the article in detail, but
at present shall simply say, as the prophet Jo-
seph Smith once told an Elder who asked his
opinion of a, so called revelation he had writ-
ten,—"It has just one fault and that one fault
is, it is not true."
					BRIGHAM YOUNG.
	President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.


PRESIDENT GEORGE A. SMITH.

DEDICATED TO HIS FAMILY AND FRIENDS.

	A friend of God—a friend of man—a kind
And loving husband, father, brother, saint,
Has gone!

		The deep, sad sense of loneliness
Felt in the soft and soothing whisperings
Of twilight zephyrs as they gently move,
And seem in mournful requium to chant
The solemn fact, speaks volumes to the heart.

	He is not dead; yet, death has done its work;
It came, but not in ghastliness—it as
A kindly porter set the "Gates Ajar,"
And he stepped forth, leaving the tenement
A breathless corse, that slumbers in the tomb;
'Twas worn and weary and it needed rest.
No faith, nor prayers, nor the heart-yearnings of
The loving and beloved, could longer bind
That mighty spirit in an earthy form.

	The wreath which mem'ry twines for him, around
The warm affections of the saints of God,
Will still be bright, and fresh with fragrance, when
The tallest, proudest monumental spires
That grace the tombs of earthly royalties,
Have crumbled 'neath the with'ring stroke of Time.

	He made his mark in honor's upward path;
And his example is, to those he loves,
The richest legacy he could bequeath.
	With firm integrity, unflinchingly
He's "fought the fight of faith." He's nobly fought
The powers of darkness—stem'd the foaming tide
Of ign'rance, prejudice and bigotry,
Combined in force against Eternal Truth.
And now, disrobed of frail mortality's


Encumbrances, he joins the mighty host
Of valiant vet'rans of the cross, who're all
Co-operating with the saints on earth;
And with that band he'll shout triumphant strains.

	Here, he was humble as a little child,
And yet, as boldest lion, he was bold
And brave. Unflinchingly he ever dared,
What is no ordinary daring in
This fawning, sycophantic age; he dared
To speak the truth. He verily is one
Of God's best specimens of genuine
Nobility, ie., AN HONEST MAN.
We're proud to know he was and is our friend.

	"Peace to his ashes." His loved memory
Needs not of mortal praise. His works abide;
And he, with all whose lives are fashioned by
The unadulterated Gospel's mould,
Will live eternally where God shall reign.
							E. R. SNOW.
Salt Lake City, Sept. 11th, 1875.


OBITUARY.
	President George A. Smith, First Counselor
to President Brigham Young and cousin to Jo-
seph Smith the prophet, departed this life
Wednesday morning September 1st, 1875, after
a long and tedious illness which he bore with
almost unparalleled fortitude, patience and
faith. He took a very severe cold early in the
Spring soon after his return from St. George,
which was the original cause of his severe ill-
ness. Deceased was born at Potsdam St. Law-
rance Co., New York, on the 26th of June 1817.
His entire life from the days of his boyhood un-
til the time of his death, has been devoted to
the building up of the Kingdom of God upon
the earth. There is a history recorded in the
very circumstance of his being chosen as a
member of the "Quorum of the Twelve" when
he was not yet twenty-two years of age, that
speaks to the mind of every intelligent per-
son in a language louder and more forcible
than the highest culogium of praise. He has
traveled extensively to preach the Gospel at
home and abroad; and has held many public 
positions of trust and responsibility.
	As a fitting tribute to the memory of one so
faithful and beloved, we can only say, he has
lived the life of a TRUE Latter-day Saint, and
though he has passed from mortal sight, his
works remain as an everlasting memorial of
his fame, which no change of time or temper-
ature can ever mar or deface. And to the be-
reaved there is comfort immeasurable, in the
contemplation of such a glorious life and the
surety of an immortal re-union, if they follow
his examples and instructions.


[Column 1]
		A REFORM NEEDED.

	Excess seems to be incidental to human na-
ture, and wherever there is excess reaction is
sure to follow; it is invariable the world over
that extravagance is ruinous to any nation, to
any people, to any society, family or person.
There is the same result whether it is one
country or another; people are ready enough to
acknowledge this, and yet they are prone to see
the mote in another's eye, without casting the
beam out of their own. Report tells us of
partners ruining their firms by extravagance
of ladies who dress so expensively, live so lux-
uriously that their husbands capital is not
equivalent and in consequence by and by.
comes a failure, a bankruptcy, or sometimes
worse, a fearful suicide and all is over. Who is
to blame for all these things and who is will-
ing to step out and head a reform? Here and
there one may undertake it alone, but what
influence have they, what support is given
them, how are their sentiments and opinions
received? The generality of the people will
say "custom and society are to blame," they,
poor inanimate things will have much to an-

[Column 2]
swer for, they will assuredly be over-burdened.
Should rational beings and accountable for their
acts, endowed by heaven with such wonderfulpowers of reasoning, sense and judgment,
allow themselves to be drawn into habits and
practices which are in their developement ruin-
ous, and then cry out custom must answer
for their sins! Latter-day Saints do not follow
the custom of the world in worshipping God
nor in attributing to Him a sphere, for they
worship a God without body parts or passions,
(and by the by we have often wondered how
they thought He could be jealous, and their God
dwells beyond the bounds of time and space)!
This people profess to worship a real God with
a positive body who must actually have posi-
tive space to dwell in. Why, when they have
rejected and ignored their views and senti-
ments on the most important points, should
they allow themselves to be led astray by the
little things which are so small and insignificant
in themselves. Truly it is "the little foxes that
spoil the wines."
	Unless they can entirely eradicate the feeling
that is now existing that it is necessary for their
neighbor or friend to reform, while they are them-
selves exempt, they can never expect to produce
any permanant good; where shall the reform
begin? Expressions like these are useless, my
friend spends so much, or practices such and
such extravagances, or has some very glaring
faults, but we have not been extravagant in
the least, we have kept ourselves aloof from
these excesses. To work upon this principle is
folly, because let every person be their own
judge, they are nearly or quite perfect. But if
they will begin to examine into their own con-
dition instead of that of their neighbor's, weed
their own gardens instead of peeping over the
fence to see how fast their neighbor's weeds
grow, then they may anticipate the accomplish-
ment of some thorough work, and a reforma-
tion thus commenced will extend by imitation
if nothing further, for it is so natural to try
to imitate each other that it would spread like
wildfire from family to family, and city to
country and from one settlement to another; in
fact the cities rule, silently, it may be, but
wherever there is a larger city or town all the
others ape the manners, the practices good or
bad of this leading town. So it remains if in
Salt Lake City they begin to economize
time, means and expenditures, the lesser
magnates will act after the pattern they set.
It is several years now since it has become
common to hear the remark made that people
outside in the settlements dreaded to let their
wives or daughters come to this centre stake of
Zion, lest they too should be carried away with
vanity and the fashions of Babylon. Dr. Mary
J. Stafford Blake in conversation with us re-
marked, "why I am surprised that you have
not advanced farther in "dress reform" living
out from the world, "why," said she "I saw
just as much style and quite as many laces rib-
bons and flowers in your tabernacle as I should
see in an assemblage of a like number in New
York or Boston.
	Men will protest both here and elsewhere
that woman is causing this extravagance, that
her insatiable vanity and love of admiration,
her desire to outdo or surpass her neighbor in
all her adornments of person or style, is the
leading or primary cause of bankruptcy, and all
other evils brought about by expense over in-
come. Men have actually frightened them-
selves into the belief that it is unsafe to marry,
it will require so much to keep their wives in
gew gaws. Well whose fault is it? Is it not their
own? Whom do men choose for their compan-
ions at balls, at operas, at theatres and else-
where? The fashionable stylish young lady, no


matter whether she can utter half a dozen sen-
sible remarks or not, if she is only "stunning"
according to modern parlance, that is the one
grand requisite; so forsooth, women who desire
to find favor in the eyes of the other sex must
dress in the latest style, however absurd they
may think it, and if they have their own ward-
robe to look after they have certainly no time
to improve their minds, or cultivate their hearts,
because they must hunt up silks and laces, get
ready for parties, return calls, and go through
all the round of fashionable life. Such women
are as much slaves as the servant girl in the
kitchen. Whoever will lead out in a thorough
reform is deserving of everlasting honor; but it
will require indomitable courage and persever-
ance. Will the sisters try to realize the
importance of their position in this day and
age? Remember in the commencement, Eve led
Adam, and to this day she is quoted as the au-
thor of man's misery and degeneracy.
	Very little can be said in a short article like
this upon a subject which is so vast and com-
prehensive, but one item more we would fain
add, and that is that woman can no doubt in-
troduce reform in very many respects, in her-
self and others and in generalities. Economiz-
ing time is one subject at present very little
thought of, many ladies waste their own time
and are the indirect cause of others losing
theirs, and also set an example which is exact-
ly at variance with the spirit of reform. Wo-
man's power and influence will have great
weight in this matter, and those who are will-
ing to lead out, deserve the reward they are
sure to obtain. The complaint has already
been made that there is "enthusiasm in this
direction:" there has been slackness in times
past, a little zeal and some enthusiasm may
counterbalance the scale and turn it in woman's
favor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	ELDERS JOHN Taylor, George Q. Cannon,
and A. M. Cannon went North Tuesday morn-
ing, Sept. 7th, on a preaching tour through
Cache Valley.

	MARGETTS' COMBINATION Dramatic Troupe
are giving entertainments through the North-
ern settlements; report says, to full houses and
appreciative audiences.

	A MOST TRULY refreshing and well-timed
shower of rain fell Wednesday Sept. 8th, cool-
ing the atmosphere considerably and contribu-
ting some little towards allaying the dust which
has been flying in clouds, the past two weeks.

	THE EXCURSION to Cache Valley which left
Salt Lake city Sept. 7th, was most thoroughly
enjoyed by the participants, most of them re-
turning on the evening of the 9th, having real-
ized all the pleasure and recreation they antici-
pated.

	MR. JESSE Shepard a talented musical geni-
us has been giving a series of entertainments
in this city recently. He is a gentleman who
has had the benefit of the highest musical cul-
tivation, and possesses a most wonderful voice
in its range and compass. He has traveled ex-
tensively, and visited several European Sover-
eigns. His programme consisted principally of 
classic selections.

	MADAME OCTAVIA Walton Le Vert, who is
at present sojourning in this city will give her
"Readings" at the Presbyterian Church Thurs-
day evening Sept. 6th, at 8 o'clock. The enter-
tainment will be entirely of selections from her
own composition. She is a lady of refinement,
and an author of considerable note; has al-
ways moved in the society of literary and dis-

[Column 2]
tinguished people; was intimately acquainted
with Henry Clay, and many other celebrities
who have passed away.

	MONDAY MORNING Sept. 6th, President D.
H. Wells, and Elders Lorenzo Snow, Frank-
lin D. Richards, Junius Wells and others accom-
payning them, started on a tour through the
Southern settlements. President Young with
a party of ladies and gentlemen consisting of
relatives and friends escorted them on their
way as far as York. They intend first visiting
Sevier Co., and afterwards go South as far as
St. George before returning home. We wish
them a safe and pleasant journey, and may
abundant success attend their mission. At
Richfield they held Two-days' meetings Sept.
9th, and 10th, which were largely attended.

	MISS IDA Cook of this city, sister of Miss
Mary E. Cook, will open the High School in
Logan, Cache Co. on Monday morning Sept.
20th. Her reputation as a teacher is thoroughly
established here, as she has taught in different
parts of the city, also in Logan the past sum-
mer. She is a young lady of pleasing man-
ners, possessing intelligence, culture and refine-
ment and one infinitely calculated to carry an
influence for improvement among the circle
where she associates. Miss Anne Doremus,
daughter of Dr. Doremus of this city will also
open a ward school in Logan at the same time
Monday Sept. 20th.

	ON MONDAY morning Aug. 30th, Miss M. E.
Cook re-opened her Graded School in the So-
cial Hall. This lady is eminently qualified in
all respects to take charge of a school of this
kind, having had a long experience in teaching
schools arranged after this method in the East,
and herself possessing a superior education as
well as all those rare and estimable qualities
which are positively essential to persons having
charge of teachers and pupils combined. As
assistant teachers, she has in her employment
Miss Emma Wells, and in the Primary Depart-
ment, according to grade Miss Louisa Ashby in
charge of Third Readers etc.; Mrs. Camilla C.
Cobb Second Readers etc.; Miss Lucy String-
am First Readers Primers etc.

	MRS. Gen. C. A. Van Cort and Dr. Mary E.
Walker, after leaving this city visited Ogden,
where they were the recipients of much true
courtesy from the Bishop, President Richards
and C. W. Penrose. Dr. Walker delivered a
lecture there upon "dress-reform." She left
with the Editor of the Ogden Junction the
copy of a letter written in and of Salt Lake
City, for publication in the Oswego Palladium.
A part of this letter is published in the Ogden
Junction of Wednesday Sept. 8th, with a few
comments. We have a copy of a letter of Dr.
Walker's written here, but have not sufficient
space to publish it at present. It is entitled
"Towards The Setting Sun" "Letter Number
Three.


TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF 
ELIZA A FELT.
[Read at the Semi-Annual Meeting of the
17th Ward, Aug. 5th, 1875.]
	Dear Friends, I feel that to-day while we
are glad to clasp the hand of friendship and
love to look upon familiar faces, we should
think of one who has left us since our last
annual meeting. I remember so well how
anxious she was when we got up that re-
port, to do better in the future, and in a 
joking way told our President Sister Hyde,
that if we did not do better in the future we
ought to be discharged; yet in one month
she ceased to meet with us. I was closely


associated with Sister Felt for over seven
years in the society, and we never once dis-
agreed in performing our labors, which were
constant and sometimes trying. Yester-
day being the day appointed to prepare the
report, I could not but think of her and al-
most expected to see her come in with her
books, as had been her custom, to make up
the Society accounts. Yet I feel only we are
the losers, she has attained the victory, and
waits for us beyond. I cannot express my
feelings as I have handled her books and
examined her figures, and knew that the
dear hand that wrote them lies in the silent
grave.
	She died early in the morning on the 19th
of June and was buried on the evening of
the 20th, being Sunday. Calm and beauti-
ful was the day when we laid her down to
rest. Her funeral was largely attended, and
many hearts were wrung by her loss. She
looked calm and lovely in her rest and mer-
ciful Death had straightened and smoothed
away so many of the care lines on her face.
I thought how great is the reward which
she has won. According to the request of
our president, the officers of the Society,
namely, Sisters Hyde, Heywood, Reese, my-
self and Mother, accompanied her friends to
the cemetery, and each of us threw a bou-
quet upon her coffin, that as tokens of our
love they might mingle with her dust.
	To-day she is absent, but not forgotten;
and as each succeeding Annual Day shall
bring us together as a society, thoughts of
her will be with each of us, and her mem-
ory will be ever green, until we again shall
meet her, where "the wicked cease from
troubling and the weary are at rest,"
		Her sincere Friend,
				MRS. G. A. ALDER.


S. L. CITY; Sept. 9th; 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Being much interested in the work now
in progress among the sisters, and also an
agent for the EXPONENT, I have often
thought I would like to say a word through
its columns to all its numerous readers. In
selecting a subject I have chosen to speak
of one who has gone behind the vail, whose
life was that of a true saint; I allude to our
beloved Sister Eliza Hunt, wife of Bro.
John Thayne, who died on the 21st of June
1875. I would like to remember her to the
EXPONENT, she was a subscriber from the
commencement of it, and she often told me
she would not be without it for anything,
for she felt blessed in reading it. She al-
ways attended the meetings in the Four-
teenth Ward when she could ride, but was
not able to walk there, and was alive to
every duty that she could perform. Her
only desire in life was to do good. Before
her death she called for her oldest boy and
told him she was going to leave him that
he would soon have no mother, and she
wished him to obey his father, to be sure to
say his prayers, to attend the Sabbath school
and pay attention to what his teachers said:
Will you do this? she asked. He answered
yes, with tears in his eyes, and she soon fell
asleep. Her desire was to be put in a home-
made coffin, and to be carried to her last
resting place in a wagon. Her funeral was
attended by many friends. She was a good
faithful wife, a kind mother, and a true Lat-
ter-day Saint, full of integrity to her relig-
ion. She lived in polygamy about thirteen
years, and her actions spoke louder than
words can do, and she will reap the reward
of the righteous.
	MARGARET STEHL.
First Ward.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
		PIPSEY PAPERS.

	I will tell you how I preserve apricots, and
other fruits to keep them whole.  I cut the
fruit and take the pits out and put in a jar;
then make the syrup, and pour it hot over
the fruit, and put it away until the next
day, when I drain off the juice and boil it
down to a syrup; cook it until it is done
when I take it up and put it away.  I put
about 3/4 lb. of sugar to 1 lb. of apricots or
peaches.  It will keep a long time (if not
put on the table too often.)
	Another subject which is appropriate to
the time of year, is with regard to the little
children.  If we only knew what to do for
our little ones, how often we might save
them from suffering, or death.  If we find
our children ailing, especially the smaller
ones, we should use some simple remedy
immediately.  If I awake in the night and
find one of my children with a fever, I do
not wait till morning, but get up immedi-
ately and do something for it.  If very hot
I bathe them in warm water with some soda
thrown in.  A few drops of hemlock oil is
good to produce perspiration and cool a fever.
If inclined to vomit, perhaps there has been
something eaten that did not agree with the
stomach, and I help them to throw it off by
giving them a little salt and water, or some
gentle emetic.  I think I have saved my
children many times from sickness in that
way, and by not sleeping until morning,
leaving four or five hours for the disease to
get a hold upon the system.
	I suppose some will think it is unneces-
sary to write these things, as they know
them already, but many do not know them,
especially young mothers.  They are too
apt to rely on a doctor; they wait until the
little one is really very ill and then send for
the doctor, it is many times too late and we
are called upon to mourn over the lost one,
before we hardly realized their danger.
	Mothers, now is the time to watch
over your children.  Fruit is ripening, and
the busy season is coming on, people are
crowded for means and think they must
save all they can.  But don't neglect the
little ones; don't let them go cold or wet,
or eat fruit of all sorts to sour their stom-
achs or derange their systems.  Some may
think it strange that I say cold this season
of the year, but if you do, just dress your-
selves as children are often dressed, and lie
around on the floor of a cool pleasant room
or in the shade of a tree, and you will soon
see how cold you will be especially if your
blood is thin and you can not take active ex-
ercise.  A child sitting is more exposed
to draughts as well as more suscepti-
ble to the changes of the weather; while
the mother heated and weary with exercise,
and thinking of all there is do do, forgets
baby if he is good and allows himself to be
imposed upon.
	First we know baby is sick, and then the
fruit of our hard labor goes for medicines or
doctors, or, perhaps to lay baby away, and
our hearts ache and grieve for him, and the
only comfort we have is, that we have done
the best we knew how.  Perhaps so, but it
is our duty to learn all we can in regard to
these things, and lessen if possible the mor-
tality among our little ones.
							MARY.


LAZINESS grows on people; it begins in
cobwebs, and ends in iron chains.	The
more business a man has to do, the more he
is able to accomplish; for he learns to econo-
mize his time.—Judge Hale.


LEARN A TRADE.
		      	——
	I never look at my old steel composing
rule that I do not bless myself that, while
my strength lasts, I am not at the mercy of
the world.  If my pen is not wanted, I can
go back to the type-case and be sure to find
work; for I learned the printers trade
thoroughly—newspaper-work, job-work,
book-work, and press-work.  I am glad I
have got a good trade.  It is a rock upon
which the possessor can stand firmly.  There
is health and vigor of both body and mind
in an honest trade.  It is the strongest and
surest part of the self-made man.  Go from
the academy to the printing office, or the ar-
tisan’s bench, or, if you please, to the farm
—for, to be sure, true farming is a trade,
and a grand one at that.  Lay thus a sure
foundation, and after that branch off into
whatever profession you please.
	You have heard, perhaps, of the clerk who
had faithfully served Stephen Girard from
boyhood to manhood.  On the twenty-first
anniversary of his birthday he went to his
master and told him his time was up and he
certainly expected important promotion in
the merchant’s service.  But Stephen Gi-
rard said to him:—“Very well, now go and
learn a trade."
	“What trade, sir?”
	“Good barrels and butts must be in de-
mand while you live.  Go and learn the
cooper’s trade and when you have made a
perfect barrel bring it to me.”
	The young man went away and learned
the trade, and in time brought to his old
master a splendid barrel of his own make. 
	Girard examined it and gave the maker
two thousand dollars for it, and then said to
him:
	“Now, sir, I want you in my counting-
room; but henceforth you will not be de-
pendent upon the whim of Stephen Gi-
rard.  Let what will come, you have a good
trade always in reserve.”
	The young man saw the wisdom and un-
dorstood.		
	Years ago, when the middle-aged men of
to-day were boys, Horace Greely wrote:
	“It is a great source of consolation to us
that when the public shall be tired of us as
an editor, we can make a satisfactory livli-
hood at setting type or farming; so that
while our strength lasts, ten thousand block-
heads, taking offense at some article they
do not understand, could not drive us into
the poorhouse.”
	And so may a man become truly inde-
pendent.—Ex.


THE SALE OF DAUGHTERS.—The public
marts for the sale of young ladies are now
in full operation.  It is the height of the
season at fashionable watering places.  Hith-
er worldly-minded, ambitious, scheming
women repair with their marriageable
daughters, in pursuit of what are deemed
"eligible" matches—that is to say, matches
in which, for the sake of social or pecuniary
advantages, the hand is unaccompanied by
the heart.
	It is in vain to appeal to such women.
The motherly instinct appears to be eradi-
cated from their nature.  And yet they are
engaged in an undertaking but little elevat-
ed above the slave mart.  They are barter-
ing away the whole future of the lives of
their own children.  For these forced mar-
riages, springing, not from love in the
heart, but from base business calculations,
are sure to end in misery.—N. Y. Ledger,
Aug. 14, '75.


CARELESS HANDLING OF CHILDREN.

	 I wish to enter a protest in the name of
all nervous persons and of the injured lit-
tle ones against the reckless way in which
many needless persons express their love
for children, such as lifting tnem up by their
heads, tossing and catching them in the air,
carrying infants on their hands without any
support to their backs, and otherwise en-
dangering their limbs and senses.  I have
now in my mind the case of a man who
was rendered a cripple for life through his
father's carelessness in lifting him by the
ankles, while he was a small child, he (the
father) having unfortunately lost his balance
and turned the child's ankles in such a way
that he was lame ever afterward.  Two dif-
ferent persons have told me that they knew
too late, that by their thoughtless play with
them, they had seriously injured infants in-
trusted to their care, one case resulting in
spinal disease, and the other in fits.  And
yet it is a sight daily to be seen, that of peo-
ple doing these things.  Do give the little
folks tender handling! 
							B. C. D.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	A sister writing from Fairfield Utah Co. states
that essence of wintergreen is a prompt and effect-
ual remedy for "cholera infantum." Mix a small
quantity of the essence with a little water and su-
gar and give to the patient. The first dose will
sometimes do, the second has never failed in her
experience to make a perfect cure.
	Perspiration.—The unpleasant odor produced by
perspiration is frequently the source of vexation to
persons who are subject to it. Nothing is simpler
than to remove this odor much more effectually
than by the application of such costly unguents and
perfumes as are in use. It is only necessary to
procure some of the compound spirits of ammonia,
put about two tablespoonfuls in a basin of water.
Washing the face, hands and arms with this, leaves
the skin as clean, sweet and fresh as one could
wish. The wash is perfectly harmless, and very
cheap. It is recommended on the authority of an
experienced physician.
	The following rules for health are from a letter
published in the Herald of Health for August.
First, secure the requisite amount of sleep by tak-
ing out-door exercise after supper, and freeing the
mind from all anxious thought. Second, take full
three hours exercise out-doors daily, riding, walk-
ing, talking, in the open air. In winter substitute
rapid walking, horseback exercises, and in-door
gymnastics with the window open. Third, give
special attention to ventilation without draft; use
open grates with patent ventilators, and Anott's
valve in the ceiling; the first provides constant
fresh air and the latter an escape for foul air,
Fourth, diet; reject all tea, coffee, malt liquors
and stimulants, use little meat, eat slowly. Fifth,
bathe all over in cold water summer and winter;
and in winter a brisk walk after the bath produces
the best re-action; wet the head with cold water
night and morning. Sixth, for work, from eight
to twelve hours if brain work. Seventh, cultivate
a tranquil, contented and cheerful mind at all times.


THE production of Poultry in the United
States is about 250,000,000, the product of
eggs yielding a like amount of money.
	AN old gentleman of the name of Gould,
having married a very young wife, wrote a
poetical epistle to a friend to inform him of
it, and concluded thus:
	"So you see, my dear sir, though I'm eighty years old,
	A girl of eighteen is in love, with old Gould."
To which his friend replied—
	"A girl of eighteen may love Gould it is true:
	But believe me, dear sir, it is Gold without U."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I thought perhaps it would be gratifying
to your numerous readers to hear some-
thing from this out of the way place, as it
is very seldom that this place is represented
in your paper; perhaps it is not generally
known that we have a Relief Society here,
it has not been in a very flourishing condi-
tion for the past year.  A more faithful, en-
ergetic and persevering person than our
President, Mrs. Julia Lindsey, it would be
hard to find.  She is, indeed, one in a thou-
sand, and her perseverance under difficul-
ties that would discourage a common mind
have proven her possessed of the rare quali-
ties I have attributed to her, and her Coun-
selors are of the same stamp.  But there is
a slackness with the sisters in regard to at-
tending meetings.  If there is a case of
suffering or destitution they are ready with
open hands to relieve the poor and  sick, as
they have proven in a number of instances.
But they cannot, seemingly, get the spirit
of meetings; that is, as a general thing;
there are exceptions, of course.  Sister
Presinda Kimball passed through here on
her way to Soda Springs, a few weeks ago.
A meeting of the Society was called, at
which she gave some excellent instruction
concerning our duties as a society, and as
saints of the Most High.  There was quite
a large attendance, and we had an excellent
meeting.  A partial re-organization was
made, teachers appointed, and a universal
feeling prevails that we would strive to live
our religion more faithfully in future, and
endeavor to keep up the Society.  She re-
quested the sisters if they felt like it, to do-
nate a few pairs of garments for the Laman-
ites.  The teachers were instructed in their
visits to lay this before the sisters.  Enough
was collected to purchase cloth for eighteen
pairs of garments, which have been made
and will be sent the first opportunity. This
is like the widow's mite, but it serves to
show their willingness to respond when
called upon.
	A number of the Twelve visited this place
a short time ago.  Two days meetings were
held the 14th and 15th, of this month. The
meetings were well attended by the brethren
and sisters here and from the surrounding
settlements.  The speakers were filled with
the Spirit of God.  The people were re-
buked for their slackness and want of dili-
gence and faithfulness.  They were exhort-
ed to wake up, leave off their evil habits,
and prepare themselves for what was right
at their doors.  I think their visit will re-
sult in much good, as quite a number have
already been baptized into the United Or-
der.  An order which I firmly believe, if
properly carried out, as the Lord and His
servants intend it shall be, will be the means
of uniting this people so that no power can
prevail against them.  This is what Satan
is afraid of, and the reason he strives with
all the power he possesses to influence the
Saints to fight against it.  But truth will
prevail in spite of all opposition.  Then let
us be careful not to speak lightly of that
which comes from the servants and mouth-
pieces of the Almighty here in our midst.
	The sisters all desire the success of the
EXPONENT and would be glad to subscribe
for it, but greenbacks are very scarce.  We
are looking for better days.  May the Lord
bless you in your endeavors for the spread
of truth and intelligence is the prayer of
your sisters in the gospel,
	MRS. ALICE M. RICH, Sec'y,
	MRS. SARAH M POMEROY, Ass't
Paris, Bear Lake, Aug. 29th, 1875

[column2]
	SHAMBIG, RUSH VALLEY, Aug. 26th.
Dear Editor:
	I do not expect to write very much, it is
the first that I have ever written for the
EXPONENT, but I would like to say a few
words to the girls, to beware of what com-
pany they keep and associate with, and
what they say or do; I would say to them
—speak wrongfully of no one, and when a
person comes in, or they see them elsewhere,
be very careful not to mock them when
their back is turned; it is very wrong and
unjust, and the Lord will disown any one
who persists in these things; if the persons
be Mormons, Gentiles, Jews, or whosoever
they be, they should be treated as we would
like to be treated ourselves.  I would ad-
vise them to try and learn something that
will be of use to them, and to those that
they are or may be connected with, and ask
God our Father to fill them with His Holy
Spirit, that they may have wisdom and
comprehend the blessings that He hath in
store for the faithful, and accomplish a work
that is good and great.  And I say to you
girls—be prudent and wise in your daily
talk and actions through life; aim high, and
try and hit the mark; say and do all the
good you can, and no bad.  The evil spirits
and their influence are all around you, but do
not let them have any power over you; the
Lord will bless those who do His will and
obey his laws.
	Your sister in the gospel,
							C. S.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Some Points in Butter Making.–It is time to
skim when the fingers can be drawn through the
top without the cream close behind it. When
cream will do this it is about ripe enough to churn.
When cream foams in the churn it may be cured
by warming. Cream should not be churned as
soon as taken from the milk. It should be stirred
and allowed to ripen all alike. This will occur in
twelve hours or so. But cream should not stand
until whey is formed in the cream jar.

	 Rules for Pickling. –They are very simple and
easily followed, and if proper care be taken after
the washing is over, even the novice may have on
hand very toothsome pickles. Do not use metal
in any shape when pickling, –if you wish to boil
vinegar put it in a stone jar on the stove and use
wooden spoons and forks, or silver. The vinegar
is often the all-essential feature, and unless it be
good your work is in vain. Cider vinegar is su-
perior to other kinds, but be sure it is cider vine-
gar, –not a trashy compound of vitriol and acid
sold as cider or wine vinegar. Keep your pickles
in stone jars, never handle them with your fin-
gers, but use a wooden spoon, and keep them well
covered with vinegar and a bladder, or close cove-
er of some kind. It is not necessary to use a brass
kettle to make pickles green,–indeed it should be
considered criminal to boil them in one, and all who
care for health and life will never associate brass
with pickles.
	Cucumber Pickles. –The small, long kind are
best for pickles and those but half-grown are nicer
than the full-grown. Let them be freshly gather-
ed, pull off  the blossom, but do not rub them.
Pour over them a strong brine boiling hot, cover
closely, and let them stand all night. In the morn-
ing drain with or in a seive, and dry in a cloth. To
each quart of best cider vinegar put one-half ounce of
whole black peper, the same of ginger and allspice,
and one ounce of mustard seed,–add onions if
agreeable. When this pickled vinger boils up,
throw in the cucumbers, and make them boil as
quickly as possible for three or four minutes–no
longer. Put them in a jar with the boiling vine-
gar and cover closely. Made in this way, your


pickles will be tender, crisp and green. If the
color is not quite clear enough, boil the vinegar
over the next day, then pour over the cucumbers
and cover perfectly tight.


LITTLE LETTER.

[The following came to hand very late; but
it will do to consider the old proverb, "bet-
ter late than never," as well in this case as
in thousands of others. Ed.]

	Special to the EXPONENT. 
		SPRINGDALE KANE Co. U. T.
						July 27th, 1875.

	Since the 22nd the thermometer has
ranged from 68 to 100 in the shade. Last
Friday the heat was intense.
	We have our Sunday meetings and schools
regular here. The boys have the privilege
of talking too. Some of them can speak
very well.
	The apricots are all gone; the peaches,
apples and figs are getting ripe; the green
corn has grown too big to eat; the small
grain is harvested; the grape crop will be
heavy this year.
	With good wishes to the Northern peo-
ple, I remain your servant,
			EDWIN M. GREENE.


BOYS.
			   —
   The tired mother when nightfall comes,
can not help drawing a long sigh at the
sight of her boys' torn jackets and trowsers;
and her aching head may whirl as with
gleeful shouts they come trooping into the
room in rough-and-tumble fashion. But
with what loving tenderness does she not
endure all their noise, and sympathize in
their sports, if she be a true mother?
Somewhat such feelings as these which are
put in verse she bears in her heart:

	"Boys will be boys'—but not for long;
	Ah, could we bear about us
	This thought—how very soon our boys
	Will learn to do without us!

	How soon but tall and deep-voiced men
	Will gravely call us 'Mother;'
	Or we be stretching empty hands
	From this world to the other!

	More gently we should chide the noise,
	And when night quells the racket,
	Stitch in but loving thoughts and prayers,
	While mending pants and jacket!"


LITTLE FOLKS.

	A LITTLE girl at school read thus: "The
widow lived on a limbacy left her by a rela-
tive."
	"What did you call that word?" asked
the teacher; "the word is legacy, not limb-
acy?"
	"But," said the little girl, "my sister says
I must say limb, not leg."—Boston Courier.

	BOYS, THINK OF THIS!—Boys, did you
ever think that this world, with all its
wealth and woe, with all its mines and
mountains, oceans, seas and rivers, with all
its shipping, its steamboats, railroads and
magnetic telegraphs, with all its millions of
grouping men, and all the science and pro-
gress of ages, will soon be given over to the
boys of the present age—boys like you?
Believe it and look abroad upon your inheri-
tance, and get ready to enter upon its pos-
session. The presidents, kings, governors,
statesmen, philosophers, ministers, teachers,
men of the future—all are boys now.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates. Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate.  Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.


PEN AND SCISSORS.
	Hope is a light diet, but very stimulat-
ing.
	SOME mourn more the shame which sin
brings, than the sin which brings the shame.
	THE slightest excess of expenses over in-
come is poverty, and the slightest excess of
income over expenses is wealth.
	IT is observed that in strawberry short-
cake, it is not the cake that is short, but the
strawberries.
	THE worst sign of an age is not evil liv-
ing, but low standards and cynical judg-
ments; though, indeed, these two go to-
gether.
	SNEER, if you will, like a fool, at the sug-
gestion of reform, morals, religion; every
man knows that all there is of true life is
personal virtue and rectitude of character.
	IF thou art rich, thou art poor; for, like
an ass, whose back with ingots bows, thou
bearest thy heavy riches but a journey, and
death unloads thee.—Shakspeare.
	THE intimacy begotten over a wine bottle
has no heart.  I never knew a good feeling
to come from it, or an honest friendship
made by it.  It only entices men and ruins
them.—Thackeray.
	THE foundation of-domestic happiness is
faith in the virtue of woman; the founda-
tion of political happiness, temporal and
eternal, is reliance on the goodness of Provi-
dence.
	LET every person so live that he can go
to bed in peace with himself at night. No
matter who else fights with him, don't let
that little grumbler called conscience have
good grounds for putting in his roar.
	THAT farmer understood human nature
who said—"If you want to keep your boy
at home don't bear too hard on the grind-
stone when he turns the crank."
	"Now, then, children," said a parish
school-mistress, showing her children off on
examination day; "Who loves all men?"
"You, missus," was the unexpected reply.
	GAIL Hamilton thinks school exhibitions
are fearfully and wonderfully contrived to
use up pupils, and break down teachers, and
take all the substance out of what should be
an education.
	PROSPERITY has its "sweet uses" as well
as adversity, for no sooner does a man come
into a little property than he learns the
number of his friends; whereas, if he had
remained poor he would probably have died
in perfect ignorance of the fact.
	HORACE Greeley once sent a message to
Mr. Dana, who couldn't read it, and the boy
brought it back, and without saying a word
laid it on Mr. Greeley's table. "What is
this?" said Horace; "what does the fool
mean?" "Well," said the boy, "that's just
what Mr. Dana said."
	A MIDDLE-AGED gentleman paid his ad-
dresses to a very young lady, but when he
asked her in marriage, was refused.  Hav-
ing acquainted a neighboring clergyman of
his disappointment, he received the follow-
ing laconic answer: "You ask and receive
not, because you ask a-miss.
	ROSWELL complained to Johnson that the
noise of the company the day before had
made his head ache.  "No, sir, it was not
the noise that made your head ache; it was
the sense we put into it." Has sense that
effect upon the head?" "Yes, Sir on heads
not used to it.


FLOWERS.

	THE lights of earthly promotion lift us
no whit nearer heaven. It is easier to step
there from the lowly vale of humiliation
and sorrow.
	THEY that deny a God destroy man's no-
bility, for certainly man is kin to the beast
by his body; and if he is not kin to God by
his spirit, he is a base and ignoble creature.
	WISDOM and truth, the offspring of the
sky, are immortal; but cunning and decep-
tion, the meteors of the earth, after glitter-
ing for a moment, must pass away.—Robert
Hall.
	AN unchanging state of joy is not possi-
ble on earth as it now is, because evil and
error are here. The soul must have its sea-
son of joy and gladness. Still the mercy of
the Lord is shown as much in the night as 
in the day.
	NOT alone to know, but to act according
to thy knowledge is thy destination,—pro-
claims the voice of my inmost soul, not for
indolent contemplation and study of thyself,
nor for brooding over emotions of piety,—
no, for action was existence given thee; thy
actions, and thy actions alone determine thy
worth—Fichte.
	A GOOD CONSCIENCE.—How bravely a
man can walk the earth, bear the heaviest
burdens, perform the severest duties, and
look all men boldly in the face, if he only
bears in his breast a clear conscience, void
of offence toward God and man. There is
no spring, no spur, no inspiration like this.
To feel that we have omitted no task, and
left no obligation undischarged, this fills
the heart with satisfaction and the soul with
strength.


[Column 1]
—NEW—
ARRIVALS DAILY
Of Goods for Fall and Winter wear at
S. P. TEASDEL'S.

	Shawls in all varieties, new styles, Flannels, Linseys,
Waterproof goods, Corsets, &c., Underclothing for 
Ladies at Reduced Prices. Boys' and Childrens'
Clothing. Hats Caps, &c., Reliable Goods,
Low Prices and good attention to the 
wants of our patrons.
	S. P. TEASDEL.

CALL AT
TAYLOR & CUTLER'S
AND SEE THEIR LARGE STOCK OF
GROCERIES, DRY GOODS, BOOTS AND 
SHOES, CAPS, CLOTHING, &c.,
At Greatly Reduced Rates.

MILLINERY.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17,
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

[Column 2]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
A[--]ICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN 
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second South Street, Opposite Walker
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted for
ONE YEAR.

IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK, PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
GO TO 
W. HARRISON'S,
One door South of Constitution Buildings,
Main Street.

THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done, Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.

Mrs. WILKINSON
Has now on hand and is constantly receiving all the new
and Elegant Fall and Winter Styles of 
LADIES' HATS AND BONNETS
With a Choice Assortment of Fashionable Milinery
at the Ladies Bazar, 1st South St., west
of Z. C. M. I.
LADIES CORDIALLY INVITED to Give Her a CALL.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

	H. E. PHELPS,
		29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper,
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
