Vol. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1876.	No. 16.


For the EXPONENT.
	AFFECTIONATELY ADDRESSED TO
	MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG.

A Mother in Israel in the fullest sense—
All unassuming, and without pretence;
A woman! womanly—though firm, yet mild,
And meek and gentle as a little child.
To tend the sick, how watchful thou hast been!
Diffusing light and peace through every scene,
For God is with thee, and His angel's care,
Endorsing all thy words, and granting prayer;
His Spirit was the fount from whence you drew
Rich aspirations, blessing them and you!
And e'en thy presence brought them sweet relief,
The mind made happy that was bowed in grief.
To pour the "oil and wine" has been thy gift,
The soul bowed down in sorrow to uplift,
Causing the clouds of darkness to depart,
By the sweet spirit which your words impart.

Well hast thou stood life's battle, rear and front,
And like a well-train'd soldier faced the brunt,
With eye unquailing, and with cheek unblanch'd,
Thy bark upon the sea of life was launched,
And knowing Father's Self was at the helm,
Felt sure no sea had strength to overwhelm;
So on you rode, as childhood in repose—
May such continue till this life shall close!
Lady! Sister! Handmaid of the Lord!
Grand is thy future! Great is thy reward!
	HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City Jan. 6th, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

		THE YEAR 1875.

	Another link is added to the chain of
time, another year has run its race, and
like a garment that has served its time is
laid aside, and almost if not entirely for-
gotten, as we hurry on in the wild whirl of
these latter days.
	It were well for us to stop a moment and
look at this robe of time we have laid aside,
think if we have worn it nobly, gracefully,
try to remember what it has done for us,
and what we have done for it, has it brought
to us blessings of peace, of joy and happi-
ness? Has it strengthened bonds of love
and friendship, and added to our store of
kind words and deeds—those precious treas-
ures that memory guards so faithfully—and
has it also brought to us a portion of bitter-
ness? Have we too been called to pass
through that fire which searches out and
consumes the dross, that the gold may be
purified, and have loved ones been taken
for which the heart still yearns in deepest
sorrow? Whatever its gifts and trials have
been, have we received them from the
Great Giver with thankful hearts, realizing
that He is our Father loving and kind, and
that we can safely trust to Him what our
weak eyes fail to see?
	And what have we done in return for all
this year just past has brought to us? Has
its folds covered thoughts pure and holy,
have our works been worthy of those who
bear the name of Saint, have we stood
bravely in defense of the great principles
of the Gospel we have received, opposing
with every power its enemies, and ready al-
ways to impart its blessings to all who will
receive them? If this has been our course
of action we are prepared for the new year:
for its duties, its joys and its sorrows.
	We know not what the coming year has
in store for us as a people or as individuals,
we know that as the kingdom of God we
have the opposition of the world to meet

[COLUMN 2]

the powers of evil to battle with, and the
leaders of those contending armies are mar-
shalling their hosts for the last great strug-
gle. We know that truth will triumph, but
we do not know that we will prove faithful
unto the end and worthy an inheritance in
the kingdom of God.
	We have finished the record of the year
that is past, and we cannot recall one single
deed, whether good or evil, that does not
stand to our honor or condemnation, but
we can carefully look over those pages of the
past, and gather wisdom that will aid us in
the future.
	Remember it is the present that makes
the past, and it is a good thing to be able
to look back without a pang of sorrow or a
blush of shame, and it is in the present that
we build our dwelling places for eternity,
that we sow the seed of happiness or mis-
ery. This life is short and time is precious,
and let us seek those things that perish not
with earth.
	Farewell to the departed year, and when
the Books are opened and we listen to the
record, may we not feel to hide our faces for
shame and wish that it was blotted out for-
ever. And may the new year find us with
strength renewed and purpose firm to seek
the right, and prove us faithful and valiant
soldiers in the cause of God.
							Hope.


For the EXPONENT.
AS YOU SOW SO SHALL YOU REAP.
ADDRESSED TO THE PERPETUAL GROWLERS
	ABOUT WOMAN'S EXTRAVAGANCE.
	You have outraged women for the last
two thousand years at least.
	You have forced on her the conviction
that unless she can win you by the arts of
the toilet, she can never obtain a prominent
place in society.
	You have tried to stamp out every noble
feeling of her nature, by scorn for her weak-
ness, while you have used that weakness
for your own gratification.
	You have humbled her to the dust. You
have not cherished her as a helpmeet for
man, but used her as a slave.
	Now you are reaping as you have sown.
Now you whine because you have done
your work so well, and throw all the blame
on the woman, threatening not to marry
her because of her extravagance. Well,
don't. Better the world become utterly
empty than to go on as it has done for the
last two thousand years.
	This is something of the style—Caesar's 
wife must be above reproach, whilst Caesar
was a heartless reprobate.
	William of Normandy beat the Princess
Matilda because she did not want to marry
him; beat her until she consented to be his
wife.
	Napoleon divorced Josephine to satisfy
his ambition.
	Noble men, all these! Oh, yes! very no-
ble, very.
	MARY.
	Granstville, T


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The King of Siam has joined the royal
list of authors; he has published a small
cyclopaedia on the statistics of literature,
politics, geography and history of the coun-
try od Siam.
	THE PRINCESS Matilda De Keschko, re-
cently married to Prince Milan of Servia,
is described as looking like a Greek statue
stepped down from its pedestal, and as hav-
ing the air of a goddess when goddesses
were believed in.
	THE MARQUESE de Chambrun, the grand-
daughter of Lafayette, now a resident of
Washington, has in her possession a set of
pearls given her grandmother by Marie An-
toinette, at whose wedding that lady acted
as bridesmaid.
	MISS ANNA Louisa Cary, the sweet Yan-
kee singer from Maine, was received in
Moscow recently with the greatest enthu-
siasm by the "royalty" and the people. She
writes to a friend in Chicago, describing her
timidity in appearing upon the stage, but
says after the first rehearsal with the or-
chestra, she was sure that "failure" would
not be the verdict, for the musicians rose to
applaud her, which was the first time they
had noticed an artist. After the second act
of "Il Trovatoro" she was called out four
times, after the third act three times, and
after the entire opera six times. She says
her success has been the event of the sea-
son; and that she was received there with
the same enthusiasm and applause as in Cin-
natti at the Festival.
	OPENING OF A LADIES' COLLEGE.—Yes-
terday morning the new Ladies' College,
known as Newnham Hall, at the back of
the colleges, at Cambridge, was formally
opened, and received into its rooms twenty-
seven students, the resident mistress being
Miss Clough, sister of the poet. This hall
was much needed, as accommodation could
not be found at Girton College. The large
number of ladies who come to Cambridge
for the purpose of attending lectures could
not be provided with lodgings, a difficulty
which will now be removed. Newnham
Hall has been built at considerable cost by
a number of persons interested in promot-
ing the higher education of women, who
have formed themselves into a limited lia-
bility company for that purpose. The pay-
ment for one term's residence at the hall is
to be 201. There are some exhibitions and
scholarships which are open to competition,
and can be held by lady students at the hall.
Ladies who intend to make teaching a pro-
fession will be allowed to attend the lec-
tures.


IT is well that we were born babies in in-
tellect. Could we understand and reflect
upon one-half of what most mothers at that
time say and do to us, we should draw con-
clusions in favor of our own importance,
which would render us insupportable for
years. Happy the boy whose mother is tir-
ed of talking nonsense to him before he is
old enough to know the sense of it!


122		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

		R. S. REPORTS.

	Meeting of the Senior and Junior Co-op-
erative Retrenchment Association held in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Dec. 18th, 1875. After the usual formula
and reading of minutes, etc., President Mrs.
M. I. Horne addressed the meeting, and
gave some valuable instruction. Coun. E.
R. Snow, in her remarks, said the integrity
of the saints would be their password into
the celestial kingdom; spoke of the great
influence women could use in this kingdom
if they were awake to their duties, and also
of the importance of cultivating the abili-
ties with which God has endowed us for the
good of each other. Coun. Zina D. Young,
Mrs. Martha Young and others gave excel-
lent instructions, and bore earnest testimo-
nies.
	Meeting of this Association at the same
place, Jan. 9, 1876. President Mrs. M. I.
Horne in the opening address wished the
sisters, one and all, "A Happy New Year,"
and hoped that all present might be faithful
in keeping the covenants they had just re-
newed. The meeting was one calculated to
deeply impress the sisters with a sense of
their obligations to God and to each other.
It being very stormy the attendance was
not as large as usual, but they proved the
Saviour's words true, that where two or
three are gathered together in His name He
will be there to own and bless them.

		DRAPERVILLE, Dec. 15th, 1875.
 EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters at this place had the pleasure
of a very interesting visit from Sisters E. R.
Snow and M. I. Horne on Nov. 30th; Sister
Snow organized a society called the "Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association of Dra-
perville;" we received from them very
good and valuable instructions, which we
hope to treasure up and profit by in future.
The officers were elected as follows.
	Mrs. Julia Stewart, President.
	"	Melissa Fitzgerald,
	"	Hannah Smith,
	"	Mary E. Smith,	Counselors.
	Miss Mary A. Stewart,
	"	Leah Day,
	Mrs. Minnie Garff,
	Miss Annie Burnham, Secretary,
	"	Elnora Day, Assistant Secretary.
			Yours respectfully,
							E. DAY.

				RICHFIELD, Dec. 28th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Your paper comes regularly to hand, and
is very welcome among the sisters. Ac-
cording to request I will endeavor to give
you some account of our Relief Society, but
must apologize for being so late. Financial-
ly we can not boast of our Society, as we
are differently situated from our sisters in
the northern part of the Territory. The
United Order being established among us,
leaves us, happily, without much means,
but also without poor to support, as we are
all on an equal footing, our wants being sup-
plied out of the Order. Consequently the
sisters have but little to donate, but they
have kind hearts and willing hands, and
would do anything required of them to help
build up the kingdom of God.
	Three months ago our Society was partly
re organized, according to the pattern of
our brethren; such of the sisters as could
not comply with the requirements of the
United Order resigned their offices. Our
President from the beginning, Mrs. Chris-
tine Peterson, has kept her place faithfully

[COLUMN 2]

but new Counselors were elected, Sisters
Dorcas Farnsworth and Elizabeth Enze;
Secretary, Frederica Anderson; Assistant
Secretary, Anna D. Kemp; Treasurer, So-
phia O. Hanson, who from the beginning
has endured faithful. At that time there
was in the Treasury $120; shares in the Co-
operative Store 45; $221.68 has been paid
out within the last year towards the build-
ing of a house for the sisters, our brethren
having promised to build one as soon as
convenient. We generally manage to keep
a supply of material on hand for the dress-
ing of our dead, and it is charged over to
the Order; so with quilts, socks, or anything
else that the sisters manufacture; our
means is at the call of our brethren, whom
we think it our duty to sustain, and to ad-
minister to the sick for whom we have as
yet been able to procure a few delicacies.
	The Teachers, eighteen in number, (all
members of the United Order) visit regu-
larly, once a month, among as many of the
sisters as will receive them. We have a
a teacher's meeting and a prayer meeting
every month, and meet to work as often as
time and circumstances will permit, and we
can get a place with some of our sisters.
We have been trying to unite our efforts to
labor for the general good of all; in work-
ing our wool into cloth, our president her-
self being a hard worker, has indeed shown
her faith by her works, and some of our sis-
ters have followed her example. We exert
ourselves to encourage our sisters to foster
HOME PRODUCTIONS of every kind, but la-
bor under difficulties as long as we have no
house to work in; yet I can truly say that
union and a good spirit prevail among the
faithful few, who are always ready to meet
for worship, or for work, and we trust in
the God of Israel to crown our feeble efforts
with success, that we may be help-meets to
our brethren in working out the purposes of
God. We shall be pleased to receive coun-
sel and instruction from our more expe-
rienced sisters, either by letter or through
the Exponent. Love to our faithful sisters
wherever this may find them.
	Yours in the Everlasting Covenant,
				FREDERICA ANDERSON.

		SPANISH FORK, Jan. 9th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister:—I have been thinking of
writing for some time to let you know how
we are getting along with our Retrench-
ment Association, but have neglected it, not
being accustomed to write to a paper. We
meet together once a week, open our meet-
ings with prayer and singing, and bear tes-
timony to the things of this kingdom. We
also have a paper entitled "The Young La-
dies' Herald of Union." We are on the in-
crease and the timidity that affected us at
first in standing up to speak, is leaving us
in a great measure. It gives me great
pleasure to hear the young brethren and
sisters bear testimony to the work of God.
	When we consider the trials and troubles
our parents have gone through for the Gos-
pel's sake, it behooves us to be diligent, and
show to them and the world that we are fit
subjects for this kingdom.
	Our Retrenchment Association was organ-
ized March 31st, 1875, with the following
officers:
	Miss Mary J. Warren, President.
	"	Maria Finch,
	"	Mary J. Thomas,	"	Jane Robertson	Counselors.
	"	Elizabeth Martell,
	Mrs. Mary C. Bekstrem
	Miss Jane Robertson, Treasurer.


Emma P. Evans, Secretary.
Nancy E. Woodward, Assistant.
Our Resolutions are as follows:
	1. We will always dress neatly and in a
becoming manner, not indulging in the
foolish fashions of the world, but will try to
create our own fashions, such as will be con-
ducive to our health and comfort.
	2. We will attend Sabbath and Fast meet-
ings, Sunday School and other gatherings
where useful information and instructions
are imparted.
	3. We will be reserved in our actions in
meetings and elsewhere, and cultivate good
manners and true etiquette in our behavior.
	4. We will refrain from the use of slang
phrases and by-words, as they are termed,
being unbecoming and not ladylike.
	5. We will not treat or speak lightly of
any sacred ordinance of our religion, but
will seek wisdom, humility, and the guid-
ance of the Holy Spirit by prayer.
	6. We will refrain from reading fictitious
literature which has a debasing tendency,
and is very injurious to the memory, but
we will be studious in our lives, seeking to
obtain wisdom and knowledge from the
reading of good books and other sources at-
tainable.
	7. We will refain from fault finding, and
seek for the good of our brethren and sis-
ters, and do to others as we wish them to
do to us.
	8. Resolved that we will refrain from
round dancing, as it is not approved of by
the Presidency of the Church, and is also
injurious to our health.
	We were very much edified and instruct-
ed by Sister Eliza R. Snow and others while
on their visit to us last summer. Hoping
that we may ever follow their counsel and
examples is our united desire.
EMMA P. EVANS,
		Secretary.


SILENCING SKEPTICISM.
	It is said of Robert Hall, that when some
amatuer skeptic asked him about the future
of man, he roughly answered, "I don't
know whether you have a soul, but I know I
have." This was answering a fool accord-
ing to his folly, and no doubt tended to
make him less wise in his own conceit. But
wherewith shall we best reprove and si-
lence the skeptics of this generation? There
is one argument which speaks in all langua-
ges, and is known and read by all men, and
is quite unanswerable—a godly life. So to
live, that he who is of the contrary part
may be ashamed, having no evil thing to
say of us.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I wish to mingle my voice with those of
my sisters through your precious columns.
Not having a very good education it is hard
to express my feelings on paper, yet my
faith and integrity are just as good as though
my learning was better. We are in the
kingdom of God, and it is rolling on, and
when we, dear sisters, take time to write a
few lines to the EXPONENT we are helping 
to advance it a little. We can help to ad-
vance this great work in many ways; one
is in talking to the young through the EX-
PONENT. Now, dear sisters, as the holi-
days are over, let us put our minds to study
better things, those that will elevate us in
the kingdom of God.
S. J. T.
	HARRISVILLE, Jan. 3, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHEN WE ARE MEN.

A DIALOGUE IN RHYME FOR TWO BOYS.

First Boy-
	We are only boys, but are growing fast,
	Soon our boyhood will be past,
	And I ask myself again and again,
	What shall we do when we are men?

Second Boy-
	Better ask what shall we do as boys,
	What shall we do with our books and toys?
	With lessons to learn and teachers to please,
	Better ask what shall we do with these;
	For they will go, when our youth is past,
	And, as you say, we are growing fast.

First Boy-
	Oh, but books get stupid, and teachers cross,
	I am sure they will be no very great loss,
	And when we grow to be our own men,
	Oh, I wonder now, what we shall do then!
	Let us be good and let us be great,
	We will do something at any rate.

Second Boy-
	But you forget, as boys make men,
	We must labor now and prepare for then,
	And our books and lessons so hard and dry,
	Are fitting us now for the by-and-by.
	If we please our teacher, and mind each rule,
	And are prompt and punctual at school;
	If we try to do right again and again,
	We'll be ready to work, when we are men.

First boy-
	I see I am wrong in looking ahead,
	When the lessons hard, that I so much dread,
	Lie waiting to teach me the good and true;
	For shame to be idle, with so much to do!

Second Boy-
	Yes, for shame to be idle, for boys though we be,
	God has a work for both you and me.

BOTH:
	We'll choose for a guide in our childhood days,
	Him, who is worthy of prayer and praise;
	We'll serve Him in boyhood, and then, and then,
	He'll help us to serve Him when we are men.Northwestern Educator.


SNOW BASKETS.
	A great many know already how to make
these baskets, and there are also many who
do not, and they are so simple and pretty
we think they will be glad to learn.
	Take a yard of common cotton cloth,
some take an old well-whitened sheet, tear
it in strips an inch wide, and fringe out each
side to two or three threads in the center.
Twist the strips loosely. Take hoop-skirt
wire—any light wire will do—and make
two hoops a desirable size, the upper one
perhaps eight inches across, the lower one
somewhat smaller. Wind the hoops with
plain strips, and fasten the upper and lower
strips together with four plain strips at
equal distances from each other. Suspend
the fringed strips from the upper hoop in
loops of various heights, the ends of each
loop being sewed to the upper hoop at dis-
tances apart proportioned to its length.
Cover the space between the hoops well
with long and short loops. Little bows may
be sewed on wherever they will look tasty.
The handles are four long fringed strips,
sewed together at the top. The light deli-
cate beauty of these baskets could hardly be
conceived. They last longer than one would
expect, and though they cannot be washed,
some keep them looking well by sprinkling
them with flour. One made of canton flan-
nel was yet more fluffy and pretty. Baskets
made in the same way of the coarsest kind
of red flannel look almost exactly like coral.
—EX.


No man can for any considerable period,
wear one face to himself, and another to
the multitude, without finally getting be-
wildered as to which may be true.


RETRENCHMENT, OR GOD'S KING-
		DOM, OR NOTHING.
	Not being able to be with you in person,
I will try to in spirit and give you a few of
my thoughts by means of pen and paper.
I can not exchange ideas with you, so you
will have a little of the advantage for the
present, until such time as I can be with
you. I attended RETRENCHMENT MEET-
INGS with the 11th Ward for a year, and I
would not take the riches of this world for
the light and knowledge I received there;
and if you who have started out will perse-
vere with a determination to learn the ways
of the Lord, you will be blessed abund-
antly in your endeavors, so much so that
you will bless the day retrenchment was
instituted. Some may suppose it is to re-
trench in dress alone, but that is a small
item when you consider how many other
bad habits need eradicating from our
minds. These Societies consist of every
thing that is exalting, pure and noble, and
will eventually make us as pure as the an-
gels, if we have a desire and try to be so
ourselves. We have to work out our own
salvation and it will be ourselves who are
to blame if when the judgment day comes
we are not prepared, for we have all the
advantages necessary to learn. Let us
take a look at ourselves and see what part
of our natures we would be better without,
and retrench in it. We often slur people,
perhaps only through a feeling of jealousy;
but it hurts the person spoken of perhaps
more than we intended.
	How often we criticize and make fun of a
person that really we ought to respect, and
perchance if we were talking to them we
would be most amiable and courteous,
well here is a case of criticism and de-
ceit. I think it is a much better plan to
speak well of everyone and if we cannot,
let us keep silent. Sometimes persons
wound our feelings, but let us not wound
theirs, but overcome evil with good, this is
the most noble, and we shall feel better sat-
isfied with ourselves for doing so. Every
thing that is revealed for us as a people
through the authorities of the church, let
us heartily endorse and put in practice to
the best of our abilities, and if we do this
we will be as near perfect as the angels of
heaven, for they only do the best they can.
But we come far short of that as yet. Let
us look for the beam in our own eye and we
shall not be able to see the mote in another
person's.
	Let us try to prepare ourselves so that we
can be with the faithful in the presence of
our Heavenly Father, this is the prayer of
your sister in the Gospel of Christ.
REBECCA MANNING.


TO THE RETRENCHMENT GIRLS
OF PLAIN CITY.

MY DEAR SISTERS:
	As I cannot have the pleasure of being
with you to-day, being confined to my bed
with a heavy cold which I received in do-
ing good to others; "but that is all right," I
thought I would send you a few lines to be
read in your meeting. The Lord has not
forsaken me, He pours out His spirit upon
me abundantly when all around me are as
leep. I have good reflections and the spir-
it of light leads me to see even behind the
vail where the spirits of the saints are work-
ing in co-operation with us, and preaching
to the spirits who died without a knowledge
of the Gospel; but they do not have this
world and its wickedness to contend with
as we have; therefore my beloved sisters


let us be united in all our undertakings, or
we can accomplish nothing. Let us be
humble, prayerful and watchful, for the
Evil One is at work trying to destroy our ef-
forts to do good. But if we, a band of
sisters are bound together in union and love,
and obedience to the Holy Priesthood, and
the principles of the Gospel, we shall be
able to do some good while we live, and
when we are called to go behind the vail
we shall not stop our progress in good works
but in a brighter sphere progress from step
to step until we arrive at the glory and ex-
altation that we have lived for; which may
God through His mercy grant unto us in
the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
	Sisters one and all I wish you a happy
New Year, may the spirit of God dwell in
your homes, and lead you through all your
duties in life as mothers in Israel. And
you my young sisters who have now been
called upon to step forward in the mission
you were sent here to perform. You are
the daughters of Zion born of parents who
hold the HOLY PRIESTHOOD. Do you ap-
preciate the great privilege that is bestow-
ed upon you above any other daughters in
the nation? Their fathers and mothers
great as they may be do not have the HOLY
PRIESTHOOD therefore young sisters be
thankful for your calling, and if you lack
wisdom be humble, and ask of Him Who is
willing to give; and if you are faithful to
the requirements made of you by your
leaders, you will be able to do a greater
work than your mothers have done hitherto,
and the Lord your Father will smile down
on you, and bless you and your posterity.
May God bless you one and all, is the pray-
er of your sister in the Gospel.
			A. C HEDVIG HANSEN.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	LET the young housewife cultivate a mild,
easy temper, for what matter it how well
her house be ordered, if she want command
over herself? Who can enjoy the most
skillfully cooked dinner, if the aspect of
the mistress of the feast be sour and unin-
viting?

	WHERE education has been entirely neg-
lected or improperly managed, we see the
worst passions ruling with uncontrolled and
incessant sway. Good sense degenerates
into craft, and anger rankles into malignity.
Restraint, which is thought most salutary,
comes too late, and the most judicious ad-
monitions are urged in vain.

	THOSE who joy in wealth, grow avari-
cious; those who joy in their friends too of-
ten lose nobility of spirit, those who joy
in sensuousness lose dignity of character;
those who joy in literature oftimes become
pedantic; but those who joy in liberty—i. e.,
that all should do as they would be done by
—possess the happiest of joys.

	BAYARD TAYLOR says it is not generally
understood that the woman in ancient
Egypt was honored and respected equally
as man. There was among the Egyptians
a lofty appreciation of the marriage tie.
The wife's name was often placed before
that of the husband, and sons often bore the
names of the mothers instead of those of
the fathers. Women often sat upon the
throne and administered all the affairs of the
Government. The assertion we so often
hear in these days that woman had always
a position of subjection to man is glaringly
false. In ancient Egypt he possessed no
important right which was not shared by
her.—The Alpha.


<ff. .="" publishers="" ttdaciit's.="" exponent,="" salt="" lavo="" city,="" utah.,="" 11="" 1="" )’="" "="" "'="" i="" '="" ,="" 1111="" <!="" lake="" -="" city.="" jan.="" .15,="" 1676.="" :="" n="" i<="" div="">124			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
L. GREENE RICHARDS,
EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editors.

	Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2,00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
[-]es: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY. JAN. 15, 1876.


A STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE.

	Many persons have—and all should have a
guide or pattern, following which their course
is onward, ever on, approaching nearer and
nearer to perfection.
	Whatever pursuit or occupation is chosen,
it is always well to endeavor to excel in that
particular; to become master of a trade art or
profession, never a slave to either. And if a
standard is wisely chosen and carefully kept in
view, it is as easy to live a king, or queen as to
be a mere servant.
	The greatest difficulties which hinder the
progress of a vast portion of the human family,
are, doubtless, the results of inadvertency.
People fall into the lamentable way of think-
ing lightly or not at all upon weighty matters;
and thus fail to acquire the all important habit
of sober, earnest, careful thought. Without
power to concentrate the intellectual force it
must be impossible to accomplish great designs,
however strong the hands or willing the heart
may be. Energetic thought incites to energet-
ic action. It may be possible for a deep think
er to fail of putting his thoughts into operation
—he may purpose and not perform, but he
rarely if ever performs any creditable thing
without having first conceived a purpose.
	Of late years, this city seems at times to con-
tain a surplus of young domestic women who
are compelled to go about in search of employ-
ment.  When applied to for information con-
cerning a situation, the question instinctively
arises whether the applicant is one to be recom-
mended, one who has given thought and atten-
tion to that work for which she now impor-
tunes. Quite as much in behalf of the solici-
tor as of any one who may employ her is this
feeling of interest aroused. Conscious human-
ity gives every reasoning mind a desire to see
all creatures do well.
	The Gospel of Christ which "is the power of
God unto salvation" teaches wisdom and order
in all things. It teaches us when we take
time for reflection on these subjects, that food
should be properly prepared, dishes properly
washed, floors properly swept and beds and
clothing properly made and taken care of; as
well as that we should visit the widow and the
fatherless and keep ourselves unspotted from
the world. Therefore, in all things which
young people may or should be taught, a stand-
ard of excellence should be pointed out to
them as a safe and suitable criterion.
	By some it may be considered that these sim-
ple, every-day affairs have little to do with the
actual vitality of our religion, that temporal
salvation as well as spiritual salvation is neces-
sary for the welfare and happiness of mankind.
And this is not the sole cause why accuracy in
all these minor duties is most essential. But


another and very significant reason why we
need school ourselves and those who a[-]e look-
ing to us for example, to be thorough i[-] what-
is undertaken, is that a perfect system carried
out in one department of life's labors cannot
fail in facilitating the accomplishment of all
other obligations.
	And certainly there is no danger of any one's
erecting too high a standard of moral excel-
lence, or walking too directly in its line.


THE BEST SOCIETY.

	The best society as moderns apply the term,
does not necessarily imply real merit, virtue,
or goodness, but the greatest degree of polish,
style, and very frequently we find more or less
hypocrisy and deceit. If one wishes to win
their way to popularity among persons who
class themselves under this head they must
not evince any great degree of candor, or real
sincerity. They must study etiquette and the
laws of good-breeding, use a certain amount of
obsequiousness and initiate themselves into the
habits customs and style of those persons
who have qualified themselves by practice and
artfulness to take the lead of the "Beau
Monde." If such persons only preserve an out-
ward semblance of honor and dignity of char-
acter, they may be held up as examples to be
followed or imitated by those whose limited
knowledge and circumstances have left unpre-
pared for successfully winning their way to em-
inence in the social scale. It would be ex-
tremely unjust to say that all persons of polish-
ed manners and deportment were of this calss.
No indeed! But to a careful observer it would
seem that a majority were of this style. When
one becomes familiarly associated with persons
of the most unexceptionable tastes and man-
ners, and actually proves them not only uncer-
tain, unreliable, and insincere, but from their
conversation as well as conduct are led to be-
lieve that such are the characteristics of refined
society and its general bearing upon the com-
munity, one must inevitably draw the unfav-
orable conclusion, that the most refined socie-
ty in this enlightened nineteenth century
(when elevation of thought feeling and express-
ion is the constant topic) is not by any means
the safe guard of purity.

	To be genuine and frank in any strong sense,
is to be classed as uncouth and uncultivated,
much honor is due to those persons, who hav-
ing passed the ordeal of polite society in this
day and age  preserved their hearts and
affections, as well as their morals uncorrupted;
for as Dean Swift says:
	"It is hard where dullness overrule,
	To keep good sense in crowds of fools;
	And we admire the man who saves
	His honesty in crowds of knaves.


1776.	CIRCULAR.	1876.

LADIES DEPARTMENT, TERRITORIAL BOARD
OF MANAGERS.

TO THE RELIEF SOCIETIES, RETRENCHMENT
ASSOCIATIONS, AND THE WOMEN OF
UTAH GENERALLY.

	We, the undersigned, members of the Wo-
men's Centennial Executive Committee for
Utah, respectfully solicit your active and ener-
getic co-operation in preparing for the ap-
proaching National Centennial, by furnishing
creditable specimens of all useful and orna-
mental Home Industries of women's work
from a necktie, artificial flower, and the most
delicate embroidery, to a carpet; also natural


curiosities of our own collecting; and, as soon
as practicable, have them sent either to the
President at the Lion House, or the Treasurer,
opposite the Lion House, and adjoining the
Historian's office, Salt Lake City.
	Our specimens must be forwarded to Phila-
delphia by the first of March, which affords us
very little time, but with energy, promptitude
and united effort, much can be speedily accom-
plished.
	To expedite the work, we suggest that Com-
mittees be appointed forthwith in each Ward
of our cities, and in each Settlement in the
Territory, whose business shall be to collect
specimens all ready made—to search out wo-
men of artistic skill, and stimulate them to as-
sist; and where willing talent and ability are
found, with insufficient means to apply them,
we recommend that the necessary material be
provided, either by donation or otherwise, and
the latent will brought into exercise for the ob-
ject in view.
	Every article furnished must be distinctly
labeled with the name and place of residence of
its proprietor; and, inasmuch as persons from
other countries might wish to purchase Utah's
specimens, those articles which the owners are
willing to dispose of, should have the prices
plainly specified; all others are to be returned,
after the close of the exhibition.
COMMITTEE.
MISS ELIZA R. SNOW, President.
MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary,
" BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, Treasurer.
DR. MARY H. BARKER,
MRS. ELLEN G. HAYDON,
" PRISCILLA M. STAINES.
" MARY I. HORNE,
" BYRON GROO,
" H. C. GOODSPEED,
" ELIZABETH DAVIS,
" ELIZABETH HOWARD,
" ZINA D. YOUNG,
" SARAH M. KMBALL.


1776	CENTENNIAL	1876

	By order of the president of the Woman's
Centennial Executive Committee for Utah,
(she having received imperative orders from the
President of the International Woman's De-
partment at Philadelphia, to send word imme-
diately what space will be required.) We earn-
estly request all the presidents of Relief Socie-
ties throughout this Territory to send in reports
forthwith of their movements upon this sub-
ject; and also to furnish statistics of all dona-
tions expended for the poor since the first or-
ganization of said societies. Prompt and en-
ergetic measures to comply with this request
should be immediately taken. In all the dif-
ferent Wards throughout this city similar re-
ports should be furnished forthwith, as these
reports will have to be put into proper form
after being received, and forwarded to Phila-
delphia as a general report.
ELIZA R. SNOW, President,
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE DESERET Silk Association met as per
adjournment at the City Hall, January 3rd 1876,
Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding. Minutes of last
meeting read and accepted; Mrs. Young said
that while she had been visiting in the settle-
ments she had conversed with many of the
Bishops who promised to use their influence
in having the people put out trees; she thought
that there would be a greater interest taken
this year than there had been last, in the rais-


ing of cocoons, a good feeling prevailed through-
out the settlements. The Relief Societies had
promised to take hold and help in this matter;
spoke of some silk reeled by Sister Delinda
Robinson of Farmington which was to be sent
to the Centennial. Mrs. M. I. Horne said that
she was very well pleased to see the society
moving ahead, but did not understand any-
thing about the raising of silk only what she
had learned by attending the meetings; she felt
like learning all she could and would do her
best to help it along; asked the prices of eggs
and cocoons.
	Alexander C. Pyper said that the prices of
eggs and cocoons were as follows: Eggs 4 dollars
an ounce, and that there were 20,000 in an
ounce. Cocoons 2 dollars per pound, and that
reeled silk was worth from 9 to 10 dollars per
pound. Mrs. Barney said that while traveling
South she had spoken of the raising of silk and
the blessings that would be derived from it
financially, also that she had in her possession
a silk shawl, raised and made by Sister McLe-
land of St. Claire.

NOTICE.

	The Society wishes to say that those persons
who have any cocoons that are fresh and good,
and wish to sell them or have them reeled, the
Association will purchase them or reel them
into any kind of sewing silk they desire;
also any person that understands the reeling of
silk in all its branches will please report im-
mediately to the president of the society Mrs.
Zina D. Young, Salt Lake City, or to the Sec-
retary, Reuben Sympson, P. O. Box, 584, S. L.
City, Utah.
REUBEN SYMPSON,
Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

Dr. Young will continue his lectures to his
LADIES CLASS on each Monday afternoon,
commencing at half past three o'clock at the 
Woman's Exponent Office, until further no-
tice.

Jan. 10, 1876.


ESSAY ON FRIENDSHIP.

	A female writer, of well-known celebrity
says: "Friendship is not a plant of hasty
growth; though planted in esteem's deep fixed
soil, the gradual culture of kind intercourse,
must bring it to perfection." "Joanna Bailey."
	There have been volumes written upon this 
subject in both poetry and prose, and yet it is 
impossible to exhaust it; but while the wise
and great fail in portraying all its merits, I 
must certainly fall far short of any perfection
in conveying to you my ideas on such a cele-
brated topic; yet I have realized even in my
short life, some of the blessings and advanta-
ges asising from a sincere and well-advised
friendship; and I believe truly with the author
I have quoted; that lasting and abiding friend-
ships are not only seldom hastily formed, but al-
so require cultivation, however great the esteem
and reverence, we entertain for those whose
good feelings we are anxious to share; but care-
ful nurture of tender feelings, and kindly at-
tion to individual and mutual tastes and char-
acteristics, strengthen our faith and confidence
in each other, and these attributes are the 
strong bulwarks of solid and trustful friend-
ships.
	Congeniality of sentiment is considered by
many an essential requisite, but how often we 
see it disproved. Persons in almost every re-
spect dissimilar, are seemingly attracted to 
each other by strong opposing elements, and


finding a rarity of some special qualification,
cultivate an intimate acquaintance in order to
bring out those apparent peculiarities; and in
this intense study of another person perceive
so much that is genuine and lovable, that in-
sensibly even to themselves perhaps, they form
warm and reciprocal attachments.
	There are many varieties of friendship ac-
cording to the age, sex, and capabilities of those
persons with whom the intimacy exists; but a
true and genuine friendship founded upon a
basis of esteem, honor, and sincerity, cannot
fail in producing a beneficial result upon those
who live within its influence. Persons must be
conscious of the purity of their own motives,
and judge others from this lofty standard of
moral excellence, in order to be able to appre-
ciate the trust reposed in them. Co[-]lness of 
manner, formality, a frigid atmosphere of feel-
ing are detrimental to the happy growth of
this precious sweetener of life. And there
fore let all who desire to bask in its sun-
ny and invigorating rays, develop those
faculties which will inspire to wisdom, in at-
taining a true medium of thought, feeling and
action, which will impart that cordiality of
character, consistent with an eternal and sub-
lime friendship—instead of that gushing en-
thusiasm, which is almost sure to carry its vo-
taries beyond the bonds of sober reason.
M.


IN a report made by Surgeon E. P. Vollum to
the Surgeon-General, on Some Diseases of Utah,
it is stated that the adult population of that
Territory is as robust as any within the limits
of the United States.  The children furnish two-
thirds of the deaths, most of which occur under
five years of age.  In Salt Lake City, as appears
from the register kept by the undertakers, the
male deaths exceed the females in number
about fifty per cent.  The polygamous children
are as healthy as the monogamous, and the
proportion of deaths about the same, the dif-
ference being rather in favor of the former,
who are generally, in the city especially, situ-
ated more comfortably as to residence, food, air,
and clothing, their parents being in easier cir-
cumstances than those in monogamy.  So far
as he can learn, polygamy in Utah furnishes
no idiocy, insanity, rickets, tubercles, struma,
or debasing constitutional condition of any
kind.—"Frank Leslie's Illustrated Paper."


OBITUARY.

"Leaves have their time to fall
And flowers to wither at the north wind's breath,
And stars to set—but all
Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O death!

	Died in Salt Lake City twenty minutes past
four o'clock p. m. Saturday, Jan. 9th, of Ty
phoid Pneumonia, Deputy Marshal N. P.
Woods aged thirty-nine years, formerly from
Burlington, Iowa.  Deceased was the brother
of Major W. W. Woods of the Salt Lake bar,
and nephew of President Daniel H. Wells. He
had been a resident of this city since the sum-
mer of 1868, and was extensively known, and
universally esteemed by those with whom he
had friendly or business relations.  He was
particularly endeared to his relatives and inti-
mate friends both here and elsewhere, for his
many lovable qualities of disposition and
heart. He was a man of the deepest sympa-
thies and of large benevolence and generosity
of character.  His affec[-]ionate feelings towards
his companions and friends were always of
that peculiar type which indicate true fidelity,
and are invariably a guaranty to confidence.
His exceeding love of children was one strik-


ing characteristic of his tender feelings and
noble nature. One after another near and dear
to us pass away and are laid in the cold and si-
lent grave, and the living who loved them
would fain pay some fitting tribute of devotion
to their memory. "Tenderly think of the
dead" is one of the most touching lines ever
written and there are many true friends and
relatives of the deceased, who will never for-
get him, and who will remember his many
virtues and endearments, and ever hold his
memory sacred in their hearts.


1776.  CENTENNIAL.	1876
LADIES' DEPARTMENT TERRITORIAL
BOARD OF MANAGERS.

	A meeting of the ladies forming the ex-
ecutive committee was held at the office of
the territorial board of managers, 105 Kim-
ball block, Jan. 4th, 1876, at 11 o'clock a.m.
Most of the committee were present. The
business transacted was principally in rela-
tion to the flags. President Miss E. R.
Snow alluded to the want of sufficient time
to accomplish anything really satisfactory
or creditable, and said that if arrangements
had been made one year earlier it would
have been a great advantage. A specimen
of very fine lace work was shown, made by
a lady in Morgan city. Maj. Goodspeed
(who was present) said he thought Utah's
principal attraction would be the great va-
riety of mineral specimens and domestic
productions; in those he believed Utah
would exceed any other state or territory.
	It was resolved that meetings should be
held weekly at the same hour and place, for
the transaction of such business as should
be deemed requisite, until further notice.
	Circulars containing all necessary instruc-
tion have been mailed to the different coun-
ties and almost all the towns, either to presi-
dents of the relief societies or the bishops,
requesting prompt and decisive action in
these matters. In the different wards in
this city persons have been selected to visit
and report in regard to those who are will-
ing to contribute their work, etc. Some
have reported themselves as already em-
ployed upon articles of taste and beauty for
exhibition.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,
Salt Lake City.   Secretary


<f mdf.rt="" .yrf="" m'--="" d="" v.<f="" !="" iril="" iiaep.v;="" are="" families="" when.="" ,tbe="" govern-="" ment.="" of="" parents="" is.the="" reign="" affection,="" and="" the.pb.edisnce="" the="" ;children.the="" subr="" inission.of="" love.="" trip?="" pleasure="" ot="" being="" toved="" finds="" its="" way="" into="" cvory="" heart,="" arid="" madame="" de="" staelihas="" justymairitafnedj="" that="" wd.ceaso="" to="" loye="" our="" el="" vds!if;="" we-="" arc="" not="" beloved="" by="" another.="" l="" tip="" not.’dwelllong="" on="" ’the="" dleeks="" pf,youthn="" iirirdrdps="" sy="" fronl’tho2="" byd1,="" rests="" ori="" fhp'="" ijqsom="" of.thb'="" niriturer‘'flower,="" breaks,="" down.="" oiat.whtch="" has="" lived="" fit,="" ’="" ;l="" -="" —i;="" <="" div="">FLOWERS.
	TRUTH, like gold, is not the less so for be-
ing newly brought out of the mine.

	A BRAVE act always brings its own re-
ward in a happy heart.

	No man is free who does not command
himself.  Pythagoras.

	HAPPY are families when the govern-
ment of parents is the reign of affection,
and the obedience of the children the sub-
mission of love.

	THE pleasure of being loved finds its way
into every heart, and Madame de Stael has
just maintained, that we cease to love our-
selves if we are not beloved by another.

	TEARS do not dwell long on the cheeks
of youth. Rain drops easy from the bud,
rests on the bosom of the maturer flower,
and breaks down that which has lived its
day.


THE greatest misfortune of all is not to
be able to bear misfortune.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
	MY VISIT SOUTH.
	I left Salt Lake City Nov. 3rd and return-
ed on Dec. 11th, having traveled about 900
miles.  I held forty-five meetings, passed
through Nephi, Taylorsville, Warm Creek,
Gunnison, Monroe, Panguitch, Hills Dale,
Mammoth, Glendale, Orderville, Mt. Car-
mel, Kanab, Pipe Springs, Andrews Ranch,
Virgin City, Duncan Retreat, Rockville,
Tokerville, Leeds, Harrisburg, Washington,
Middletown, St. George, Clara, Pine Valley,
Pinto, Harmony, Kanarra, Hamilton, Ce-
dar, Summit, Parowan, Paragona, Bener,
Adamsville, Minersville, Greenville, Indian
Creek, Kanosh, Meadow Creek, Filmore,
Holden and Scipio.  I was conveyed from
place to place by the people and was met
with the greatest cordiality and respect.
Br. Segmiller took me to all of the settle-
ments of Sevier Co. being a distance of
about 150 miles.  He is very spirited and
is a successful laborer in the United Order.
There the people were greatly satisfied with
their abundant harvest and they were work-
ing harmoniously in the United Order. The
roads were fine and the weather was settled
until I began traveling through Kane Co.
there the roads were broken, rough and
sandy. While I was passing over into Long
Valley I was delighted with a forest of tall
pines averaging from 50 to 100 feet high,
and from 3 to 6 feet through.  I was told
that this forest extended 25 by 30 miles,
directly on the ridge or summit, and the
ground was free from brush or undergrowth,
leaving the tall stately pines waiting for
the woodman's axe.  This was a great treat
as the country for hundreds of miles is des-
titute of timber, only as it is found hid away
in the hills.  There has been a great drouth
this season and the grass was all dried up,
and the stock was driven off for better pas-
ture land; especially in the region of Fill-
more.  In Orderville, there is an organized
company numbering 29 men 37 women, and
99 children, organized under the presidency
of Howard O. Spencer, and if muscle and
sinew represents wealth, I thought it was
well represented by these hale and hearty
looking men whom I breakfasted with.
The women were spinning and weaving,
and the men were thrashing out their grain,
they said their harvest had been very heavy
and all seemed happy with their prospects
of future success.  Long Valley is more
like a canyon than a valley as it is so nar-
row it will not admit of their spreading
their borders very much.  Kanab is eleva-
ted and the climate is much like the New
England States, the soil is of a reddish hue.
Their bishop L. J. Nutall, had just arrived
and was energetically commencing his
new field of labor as a presiding bishop. I
found my brother-in-law, Philip B. Lewis.
His wife Mary died Nov. 14th after a linger-
ing sickness of one year; she died strong in
the faith of the Latter-day work, and was
noted for her charity and liberality to the
poor, and was cared for and duly appreciated
by her husband.  This brought the first and
only gloom of my journey.  The weather
was cold and I left in a rain storm, I stopped
at two Ranchs, called Pipes Springs and
Canan Ranch, at which places the surplus
stock of St. George and other places are
kept, and considerable beef, butter and
cheese are furnished at these places.  Ar-
rived at Virgin a place sometimes called
Pocketville, did not see it until we had got
right upon it.  It is a lively little place; on
inquiring for the Bishop, the boy told me
that he lived up there on a sand hill, and
while the carriage stood in front of the
house in the deepest of sand, I looked di-
rectly over the fence and saw a beautiful
flower garden and vineyard, such striking
contrast adjoining each other.  As I passed
on to St. George I looked back on Toker-
ville and these little places and was forcibly
reminded of a passage of Scripture referring
to the saints being hid up in the moun-
tains while the indignation of the Lord
passed over the earth.  Arrived at St.
George after dark and found Bro. Erastus
Snow and the Saints all congregated in a
large hall awaiting my arrival.  If the
Queen of England had arrived I don't think
that she could have been received with a
more hearty welcome; spent a couple of
days of unalloyed pleasure in the society of
the Saints in meetings.  There was or-
ganized a society of young ladies of 80
members, by the president of The Relief
Society, Sister Ivins. Topics and items of in-
terest were conversed upon at the meeting.
Some of the sisters accompanied me to the
Clara. I do not think the earth can afford
a nobler spirited woman than I found there
by the name of McLeland, such a calm and
placid expression upon her countenance.  Oh
that all mothers could bury their frowns and
cares beneath such a smile which so well be-
came her aged face; she showed me a shawl
and other articles that she had manufactured
from her own raising of silk. I never saw
before, nor do I think the world can boast of
such noble intelligent, fine-looking marri-
ageable young ladies as I saw in those settle-
ments where I visited; they appeared neat
and clean, comfortably dressed, but plain
and as though their better judgment guid-
ed them.  The ruggedness of the country
and their surroundings showed that they
had labored and encountered much to make
their homes, but yet with it all there seem-
ed to be such a welcome, mellow, broth-
erly and kindly feeling, unlike the mixed
element of this city where our deportment
is characterized with so much formality and
coldness; and I felt as though I little cared
if I never returned to it again.  At this
point I commenced my homeward journey,
and was furnished with a span of horses
that were called Dixie horses, and as they
began to climb the ledges in ascending the
ridge that surrounds the west side of St.
George, they reminded me of some well-
trained goats, and their little feet unlike
the clumsy American horses, could always
find a place in the rocks; but before I got
over that day's journey of 45 miles, Bro.
Foster furnished me with a span of horses
that rapidly flew over the remaining twelve
miles.  In Pine Valley we had quite a snow
storm, the summer season is very short
there, and they have very late and early
frosts. As I passed on I was occasionally
greeted by my warm friends of early life.
In Pinto I found myself buried in the
arms of a friend, one of our old fashioned far-
mer's wives, who seemed to be blessed
with too much good nature for her own
good, if such can be the case, and she takes
the cares of life so good-naturedly.  Read-
ers her name is Haskell and her children
seemed happily organized like herself, her
little home is so neat and clean that I
thought what a paradise where order and
contentment dwells.  My space will not ad-
mit of the many items that might interest;
therefore I will pass on until I arrive at
Cedar; Eld. Erastus Snow had kindly tele-
graphed and made appointments ahead of
me. Here the Relief Society sisters had
prepared a dinner at Bishop Lunts, the
very air seemed to breathe forth a spirit of
welcome. The Bishop supports and aids
the movements of the sisters, and they co-
operate in their efforts in building up the
kingdom. At Parowan, another principal
city, Br. Jesse Smith is the Bishop, and
his wife is president of the Relief Society,
a very able and intelligent laborer and much
respected by the sisters.  Bishop Smith's
mother who is very aged, is one of those
lovely old ladies that win the respect and
esteem of everybody around them. At
Kenner, another large settlement, I stayed
and held two meetings, and some of the
sisters accompanied me to Minersville and
we had a season of rejoicing together. Bish-
op Murdock aided me in telegraphing
ahead for conveyances &c.  As I arrived at
Cove Creek, Sister Hinckley favored me
with a change of horses, one of them a
fine-looking animal was called scorchel as
he had been burned in Bro. Well's barn.
Fillmore is the next large city, I was ac-
companied to meeting by Eld. Marien Ly-
man, and the powerful testimony he bore
corresponded much with the spirit of the
times. After leaving there I held meet-
ings at the intervening places including
Nephi, at which place I was furnished with
a conveyance which took me to the Termi
nus.
	E. S. B.
	Elvira S. B[---]


A SMART QUAKER

	Mr. —, the Quaker president on
Pennsylvania railroad, during the convul-
sion some years since, called upon the
W— bank, with which the road kept a
large regular account, and asked for an ex-
tension of part of its paper falling due in a
few days. The bank president declined
rather abruptly, saying in a rough tone to
the functionary:
	"Mr. K— , your paper must be paid at
maturity; we cannot renew it."
	"Very well," our Quaker friend replied,
and left the bank.
	But he did not let the matter rest here.
On leaving the bank, he went quickly to
the depot, and telegraphed to all agents
and conductors on the road to reject the
W— bank.
	In a few hours the trains began to arrive,
full of panic, and bringing news of the
distrust of the W— bank all along the
line. Stockholders and depositors flocked
to the bank quaking with panic, inquiring
thus:
	"What is the matter? Is the bank
broke?"
	A little inquiry by the officers showed
that the trouble originated in the rejection
of the bills on the railroad. The president
seized his hat and rushed down to the Qua-
ker's office, and came bursting in with the
inquiry:
	"Mr. K—, have you directed the re-
fusal of our currency by your agents?"
	"Yes," was the quiet reply.
	"Why is this? It will ruin us."
	"Well, friend L—, I supposed the bank
was going to fail, as it could not renew a
little paper for us this morning."
	It is needless to say Mr. L— renewed
all the Quaker's papers, and enlarged his
line of discount; while the magic wires
carried all around the road the sedative
message<jid hot="" let="" the="" matter="" rest="" lihro.="" on="" leaving="" bank,="" he="" went="" quickly="" ’to="" depot,="" and="" telegraphed="" to="" all="" ‘agents="" conductors="" tlio="" roau="" reject="" w------banc,="" ,="" j-="" ,v'(="" in="" a="" few="" hour3="" the.="" trains="" began="" arrive,="" fpll="" ,pf...panic,="" ;andbringing.="" nows..pf?="" distrust.,o="" ,w-----kajnk-="" ill="" ulpug="" liner="" (.stocjchqiders="" and:="" d6psitors.="" uoc$i="" l.t'ip'biink="" quaking,="" w.ith="" .panic.="" inquiring'="" d.wluit="" is="" matter?-="" bank="" broke?”="" ;="" n="" ...="" little="" .inquiry,="" by="" the'="" offleerssjiowe&="" iikt"="" tlio'trouble="" originate#1="" ih="" 'tfib="" ‘rejehmoh1="" i="" 6f="" .'(hbllls="" b="" h="" e"ta="" jfroil="" d,="" r="" '.tn="" e1="" pvestd="" e="" ejze'd="" hils="" sift="" and“rusfieddbwn-:to="" fhe’quu-:="" k‘er="" pibcb,!="" came="" bu’rstirig'iti'="" with="" thb'="" inquiry:="" '="">:
	"The W— bank is all right. Thee may
take all its currency."


OFTEN do we think when we ought to
act, and act when it behooves us to reflect;
hence caution is frequently as fatal as rash-
ness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN NOW AND THEN.[
[Column 1]
	WOMAN NOW AND THEN
	EXTRACTS FROM A LECTURE BY MISS HIND-
	MAN, OF PITTSBURG, PENN., DELIVERED
	IN DAVENPORT, IOVA, RECENTLY.
	The lady opened her discourse with a ref-
erence to the struggle between conservatism
and radicalism that had charactized the
world's history, and said that all changes
for the better had been produced first by
impression of wrong, then by conviction,
then by agitation, followed by conflict. She
gave a brief review of the condition of wo-
men in different ages and countries, com-
paring what has been with what is. The
history of Woman is very dark. A great
gulf, over which she could not pass, lay be-
tween her and man. Socially, intellectual-
ly, religiously and politically, Woman had
in the past been treated as an inferior. The
laws and customs of Turkey, China, India,
England, France and Germany concerning
Woman were referred to; the laws made in
reference to her were oppressive and de-
grading in all these lands. In some, laws
were made forbidding her to eat at the table
with her husband, or even to taste food un-
til he and his friends were served. In oth-
ers, there were laws forbidding her to visit,
or even to smile, in the absence of her hus-
band. In some countries she was held in
subjection, beaten, and even sold, by her
father and husband, while others considered
her a soulless being, created for the comfort
and convenience of man in this life alone.
	Some amusing extracts from works of the
leading writers of the last century were
read to show the opinion of the authors
concerning women then, and down even as
late as our own time. One of the great
German writers gives his opinion in these
words: "The woman who thinks is, like the
man who paints and powders, simply ridicu-
lous." A leading French writer says; "We
like to hear a few words of sense from a
woman, as we do from a parrot, because
they are so unexpected." In the past Wo-
man was not allowed to express thought
publicly, it was immodest and extremely
unwomanly. With this was contrasted the
NOW of Woman, which in a measure stood
bright colors compared with past. Woman
is now treated as man's equal in almost
every respect, in all Christian conntries;
especially in our Republic is this true. Em-
ployment of various kinds are now open to
women. They can enter the different pro-
fessions. The colleges and schools have
thrown open their doors. The platform is
free to her; she can be editor, author or
journalist, and no stigma is attached. Many
of the most oppressive and degrading laws
have been repealed. Her condition in every
respect is different, her freedom enlarged,
and yet it has in no way proved an injury
to either man or woman, women are as lov-
ing, gentle, and kind as modest, pure and
womanly; men as noble, brave and true, as
before Woman had attained the liberty she
now possess. But the better day has just
dawned. Many are the obstacles to be re-
moved, and difficulties to overcome before
the full completion comes, Woman must be
freed from the slavery and folly of fashion.
Legally she still occupies an inferior position,
and not until Woman has freedom to express
her thoughts can the evils that now exist
be remedied.
	Miss Hindman spoke of the laws that bear
most heavily upon Woman. Liquor laws,
property laws, and laws binding as though
enacted by legislature, deprive her of just
remuneration for her labor. Woman is not
protected in her home, her wages, reputation
or property, as a man, neither can be until

[Column 2]
she is man's political equal. This last
thought was enlarged upon with much ear-
nestness, and the benefits that would result
from giving woman the ballot were por-
trayed in a graphic manner.


PIPSEY PAPERS.
	My articles have been a failure as regards
regularity, but I must plead the busy sea-
son and sickness as my excuse. I have felt
as though I could not collect my thoughts
sufficiently to commit them to paper in a
form that would be interesting to any one.
Since writing last I have parted with my
dear mother; worn out with labor and long
suffering she has closed her eyes to this
world of weariness and care and gone to
dwell with the angels of light and love.
	It wounds my heart sorely to be separated
from her, but I cannot grieve, for I know
that she is far happier than she could be in
this world of care, and to her of constant
suffering, and I only pray that my course
through life may be such that I may be
permitted to join her in the eternal world,
and receive an exaltation with the saints of
God.
	Our Relief Society is dull, we have no one
in need, but are all very poor (in our own
estimation at least) and very busy, but I
think we all mean to do about right, and if
there was a case of want we should find
something for relief. I believe the sisters
are all right in principle and faith, but like
myself they are so busy, and each one
thinks there is not much depending on her
as an individual. They do not realize that
every individual makes the whole. How
often our lives are judged by comparison.
I have felt fretted sometimes because I had
not means to spend as I wanted; but to-day
a sister said to me, "how very comfortable
you are how very differently situated from
what I am, you have a husband who pro-
vides for you a comfortable living, and do
not find yourself hedged in on every side
for want of means to make you comfortable."
I called to see a poor woman who knits for
me sometimes; as I looked around on the
bare walls, her ragged children and the gen-
eral forlorn aspect of all her surroundings,
I wondered how I could complain. She had
some good apples which she took pleasure
in bestowing on me, and I found that no pov-
erty however abject could rob us of all pleas-
ure, if we only sought it in a spirit of chris-
tian meekness. Let us then meet all diffi-
culties with fortitude, and instead of com-
paring our lives with those more prosperous,
let us go to the weak and the lowly, to those
burdened with care and cast down in sor-
row, and instead of repining at the hand of
adversity let us try to cheer and bless oth-
ers. Let us give of our comparative abund-
ance something to comfort the lives and
strengthen the hearts of those who are
fainting in life's weary struggle, and how
much more pleasant our own lives will
seem, for truly it is more blessed to give
than to receive and if we impart comfort to
others God will impart a portion of it to
our own hearts.
	This is a beautiful world after all if we
will only seek for God's glory and be thank-
ful for His care. His loving hand is over
us continually even in chastening us. He
is seeking our best good, if we will but bow
unto the rod and purify our hearts before
him, that His spirit may enter in and abide
with us, instead of fretting our lives away
in vain regrets and filling our hearts with
bitterness and uncharitableness towards
God and our fellow men.
MARY. <rt52kl' 3-1="" od="" no="" uvtlvt'iiz="" i="" ,msih="" jdaity.="" ".="">


EDGAR ALLEN POE

	The monument erected at Baltimore over
the grave of Edgar Allan Poe was unveiled
and dedicated November 17, in the presence
of a large number of spectators.  It was
tardy justice to the memory of a man who,
whatever his faults of character, was a great
genius.  The scene presented a striking
contrast with the burial of the poet on a 
dreary October morning twenty-six years
ago, when a single carriage followed his re-
mains to the grave in Westminster church-
yard, where he was laid at rest beside his
ancestors. The services, which were held
in a hall adjoining Westminster Church,
consisted of addresses by Professor Henry
E. Shepherd and Mr. John H. Latrobe, the
reading of a fine poem by William Winter,
and of letters from Tennyson, Bryant, Whit-
tier, and others.
	At the conclusion of these services the
assemblage withdrew from the hall and
went to the church-yard, where the inter-
esting ceremony of unveiling the monu-
ment took place. This was performed by
Miss Sarah S. Rice, of the Western High
School, Baltimore, who from first to last
has taken the most active interest in the
erection of the monument. She was assist-
ed by the ladies who took part in the first
literary entertainment in aid of the Poe
Monument Association in the autumn of
1865. As the drapery gracefully fell from
the marble, the Philharmonic Society of
Baltimore, composed of one hundred of the
best singers in the city, chanted a dirge
which had been composed for the occasion
by Mrs. Eleanor A. Fullerton.
	The monument is made of the purest
white marble from Maryland quarries. It
stands upon a granite base about eighteen
feet high, and is placed over the poet's
grave.  It has on one side a finely-executed
medallion bust of the poet, taken from a 
photograph copy of an original daguereo-
type.  It is said to be an excellent likeness.
Beneath the bust is inscribed the name
"Edgar Allan Poe." On the opposite side
is the following inscription:

Born January 20th, 1809,
Died October 7th, 1849.

	A place has been left for an epitaph, which
it is expected will be written by Alfred
Tennyson.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	For Babies Teething.—Two ivory martingale
rings tied together with a short string are prefera-
able to rubber, which contains mineral liable to
injure the little teeth.

	Poison or Canker.—Pure Olive oil (sweet oil)
administered freely is an excellent remedy for
either of these ills. It is also one of the safest
and best remedies for diarraehea with children.

	For Catarrh.—To take a wide-mouthed glass
bottle fill loosely with cotton and pour into it a
spoonful or two each, of spirits of turpentine,
camphor, ammonia and hemlock, inhale frequently
through the nose and now and then into the mouth,
gives great relief from suffering and will also cure
effectually. The same ingredients mixed without
the cotton, and with oil to lessen the intensity of
the spirits, make one of the best lineaments for
sore throat, swellings &c.

	Sun Bath.—This is the most refreshing and
life-giving bath that can possibly be taken. Liv-
ing and sleeping in a room into which the sun
never shines is a slow and miserable form of sui-
cide.


INSTEAD of striving for fame and pow-
er, seek integrity and goodness.


128	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE FRANCHISE IN SAN FRANCISCO.
	I am glad to know that there is one per-
son who can see the wisdom (?) of being
obliged to fold his ticket just four times,
&c., &c. Why, if all the minutae of politi-
cal life and government have to be brought
down to so nice a point and every one treat-
ed as a knave, what a life this will be, and
how laborious and expensive!
	"Steerforth" seems to infer that I spoke
without being familiar with the law I was
writing of. I was fully acquainted with it,
and spoke from my own standpoint of judg-
ment in regard to it. Since then I have
heard some of our ablest politicians and
professional men ridicule this same law se-
verely—as though a corporation could not
control the vote of their employees outside
of the prescribed hundred feet as firmly as
inside the hundred feet! This political
wire-pulling and money control of every-
thing in life is disgraceful to an independ-
ent people.
	If I could vote I would like to see the
person who could control my vote folded or
not folded, within or beyond a hundred feet
of the polls. I think the feminine charac-
ter is more decided and individual in all
that it believes to be right, and could wo-
men vote there would be fewer feminine
votes sold—even for a new dress—than mas-
culine votes for a glass of whiskey.
	I should think employees would want the
perfect freedom of their vote to put in pow-
er a class who would not cripple them with
wrong influence, and any attempt to control
them thus ought to meet with co-operative
or at least individual, rebellion. Progress
comes through independence of judgment,
and it seems to me that one's vote should
be the last act of freedom to sell.
	BETH.
	San Francisco, Cal.


LEARN TO SING.
	A woman who cannot sing is as a flower
without perfume, a butterfly without wings.
I do not mean you must sing scales and
trills by the hour; those notions have left
me long ago. Learn operatic wonders, if
you like, only be sure to learn them correctly,
but they are easily forgotten, rest assured.
Learn a hundred or more beautiful little
ballads. Not the kind that take a town by
storm and die out in a season, but real songs
that never grow old, whose tunes are mel-
ody and whose words are poetry.  You will
find happiness, when your lover bends over
you eager to whisper a secret you are ready
to hear, that your joy and your love, your
modesty and your pride blend more sweetly
when you sing "Annie Laurie" or "Within
a Mile of Edinboro' Town," than in execut-
ing the most wonderful gymnastics with
your vocal organs. In sorrow, some such
song, with all the sweet memories of the
past clinging about its tender notes, will call
forth tears to ease an aching heart.
	Then there comes to every blessed woman
a time when a weary little head lies on her
bosom, little eyelids are drooping, twilight
is drawing about her—too early for a lamp,
too early for any but little folks to sleep;
then it is that all the accomplishments of
her girlhood are as nothing compared to one
simple song that lulls a tired baby to sleep.
There is something soothing to the child in
the mother's voice at any time and it in-
stinctively loves the melody of song; so
girls, while you can, think of the mine of
wealth you can lay up for the children that
will come by and by with their smiles and
their kisses to brighten the way.—Selected.


PEN AND SCISSORS.
	DON'T write long obituaries. Save some
of your kind words for those living.
	MANY run  after happiness, like an
absent-minded man hunting for his hat
while it is on his head or in his hand.
	HE who will not take cheap advice will
have to bear dear repentance.
	WE are oftener deceived by being told
some truth than no truth.
	PLATO said the Creator has so framed his
laws that it is for the advantage of every
one to observe them.
	THE miseries of the poor are as sacred as
those of the rich; and the rich have miser-
ies in spite of their riches.
	PROVIDENCE has decreed that those com-
mon acquisitions—money, gems, plate, no-
ble mansions and dominion—should be
sometimes bestowed on the indolent and
unworthy; but those things which consti-
tute our true riches, and which are properly
our own, must be procured by our own la-
bor.


[Column 1]
		NOTICE.
	The undersigned begs to inform the public, she has
sure and safe remedies for Disentery, Diarrhœa, Coughs,
Canker, Cramp, Palpitation of the Heart, Liver and Lung
complaints, Bruises, Itch, Yellow Jaundice Female
Weaknesses of all kinds and premature births a specialty.
Ladies accommodated with rooms at my residence during
confinement.
	NICKOLINE OLSEN, Exam. Midwife. 4 1-2 blocks South
of Street car Station. 4th East St., 2nd Ward,

		AT TEASDEL'S
      On and after December 1st I will sell all Raisins and
Currants and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared,
thus giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their
Mince Meat for Christmas. A full Supply of Presents for
Christmas and New Year in useful and substantial items.
	Dried Apples, to the many inquiries: I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
	Wm. H. MILES, Supt. 

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
23, MAIN STREET.

MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 30[-], Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
MILLINERY.
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.  

Z. C. M. I. 
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c. 

O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second South Street, Opposite Walker
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted to
ONE YEAR. 

IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK, PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
GO TO
W. HARRISON'S 
One door South of Constitution Buildings,
Main Street.

THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
	S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantial
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt. 

EVERY DESCRIPTION 
OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

	H. E. PHELPS,
		29 EAST TEMPLE STREET. 

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
