VOL. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1876.	No. 18.


For the EXPONENT.
	RETROSPECTION.

The pale, dull sun of February
	Tinging with mellow light,
The landscape drear, and mountain tops,
	Grand in their sheen of white,
Lights up the day with glim ring ray,
	And fadeth into night.

The shadows lay along the wall,
	Gloomy and dark they seem,
And fitfully the sunset rays,
	Adown the casement stream,
And the tired mind to rest inclin'd.
	Would fain at twilight dream.

Call up some vision of the past
	Glowing with life and light,
Some rosy-hued and brilliant scene
	In dazzling sple[-]dor bright;
A pleasant phase, of other days,
	And friends now lost to sight.

Ah! pause—for from the years gone by
	A dear familiar face,
The twilight shrouds in shadow
	And seemingly we trace
The outlines clear of one most dear,
	Crowned with a mystic grace.

And thoughts rush back to the long ago,
	And we listen as of yore,
To catch the music of the hours,
	That will return no more;
And 'mid the flow'rs of childhood's bow'rs,
	Our hearts are gushing o'er.

We close the ideal vision,
	With memories so replete;
And fancy the night wind sighing
	A requiem low and sweet.
And as we part, the tear-drops start,
	The spell is so complete.

We'll meet the absent one again;
	O Faith, thy glorious ray,
Brighter than sunshine floods the soul
	And lights the darkest day
With beams divine, that constant shine,
	Athwart the roughest way.
		EMILE.
Feb. 13, 1876.
		E. B. WELLS.


THE TIME TO BE PLEASANT.
	"Mother's cross!" said Maggie, coming
out into the kitchen with a pout on her
lips. Her aunt was busy ironing, but she
looked up and answered Maggie.
	"Then it is the very time for you to be
pleasant and hopeful. Mother was awake
a great deal in the night with the poor ba-
by."
	Maggie made no reply, she put on her
bonnet and walked off into the garden.
But a new idea went with her. "The very
time to be pleasant and hopeful is when oth-
er people are cross. Sure enough thought
she," that would be a good time, when it
would do the most good. I remember when
I was sick last year, I was so nervous that
if any body spoke to me I could hardly help
being cross, and mother never got angry or
out of patience with me. I ought to pay her
back now and I will! And she sprang up
from the grass where she had thrown her-
self, and turned a face full of cheerful reso-
lution toward the room where her mother
sat tending a fretful teething baby. Mag-
gie brought out the pretty ivory balls and
began to tingle them for the little one. He
stopped fretting, and a smile dimpled the
corners of his lips.
	"Couldn't I take him out to ride in his


carriage, mother, it is such a nice morning?"
she asked.
	"I should be so glad if you would!" said
her mother.
	The little hat and sacque were brought,
and baby was soon ready for his ride.
	"I'll keep him as long as he is good," said
Maggie, "and you must lie on the sofa and
take a nap while I am gone, you are looking
dreadfully tired."
	The kind words and the kiss that accom-
panied them were almost too much for the
mother. The tears rose to her eyes, and
her voice trembled as she answered, "Thank
you, dearie, it will do me a world of good
if you can keep him out an hour, and the
air will do him good, too. My head aches
badly this morning."
	What a happy heart beat in Maggie's
bosom as she trundled the little carriage up
and down the walk; she had done real good.
She had given back a little of the care and
forbearance that had so often been bestowed
upon her. She had made her mother hap-
pier, and given her time to rest. She re-
solved always to remember and act upon her
aunt's good words. "The very time to be
helpful and pleasant is when everybody is
tired and cross.
		THE WELL-SPRING.


THE EMPIRE OF FASHION.
	"These remnants of fool and feather, that they got in
France, with all their honorable points of ignorance per-
taining thereto."—H. VIII.
	"I see that the fashion wears out more clothes than the
man."—Shakespeare.
	An article in Scribner for December says,
one of the facts brought prominently before
the world, during the past few years, is that
France is rich, and that she has surprised
the world, in the promptness with which
she has met, not only her own, but Prussia's
enormous expenses in the last war. In this
article the writer endeavors to prove her
monied prosperity, to be the result of her
industry and frugality: These habits are
certainly great aids in this direction; but I
think we shall find a more potent argument
than this, for the wealth of France. Her
monopoly of Fashion, to which she has laid
the whole world under tribute, is the con-
tinued source of her great monied prosper-
ity. Jean Baptiste Colbert, comptroller gen-
eral of Finances, in the reign of Louis XIV
truly said in his time, "the fashions of
France are worth more to her than were
the mines of Mexico and Peru to Spain."
And strange it is, that this caprice, so
blindly followed, comes through the Paris-
ian theaters. Managers spare nothing in
their costly outfits; such artists as Dore, Du-
rand, and Roux, do not hesitate to draw de-
signs for the theatres; and the wealthy mil-
iners and modistes finish the work free of
charge. It is expected, that the piece meet-
ing with success, the colors and costumes
will become fashionable and give the mod-
iste ample reward. French dress makers
never fail to attend a piece at the theatre as
soon as its success is established.
	Thus Paris, like the city described in
Revelation, has made all the nations of the
earth drunk with the wine of the cup of
her follies.	E. W. L.
—Woman's Journal.


FLOWERS.
	A GENEROUS mind when it does a favor,
will do it with a grace.
	IT has been truly and tenderly said "Even
that perfect petition, the Lord's prayer,
gains something from the fact that every
man who repeats it, remembers that he
learned it at his mother's knee."
	NOTICE everything that is done by oth-
ers to contribute to your benefit or happi-
ness. Nothing seems more ungracious than
the passing over without remark, and ap-
parently without thought, the thousand
and one little efforts and attentions which
are intended to sweeten domestic life.
	IF you aspire to the highest and best,
you may not be able to reach the summit,
but you will come much nearer to it than if,
in the first instance, clipping the wings of
what is really pure, noble, unselfish ambi-
tion, you determine to sacrifice and surren-
der all claim to the highest and the best,
and rest content with some commonplace
attainment.
	THERE have been heroes who never set a
squadron in the field, or bared their breast
to an enemies' steel. To defend the truth
when it is unpopular, to withstand the
sneer, the pity or the laugh which fre-
quently assails those who stand up for truth
and right, may demand an amount of calm
courage which is not needed amid garments
dyed in blood of the battle-field.
	THERE is no trouble congenial compan-
ionship cannot soften, no joy it cannot in-
crease. The poorest dwelling, the most
meagre fare, shared with people whose
thoughts are one's own, who catch one's
meaning at once, and enjoy the same things,
are better than all the luxuries the world can
give, shared by those who are delighted by
what bores us, and when we are delighted
they are unutterably bored.
	THE heart of man seeks for sympathy,
and each of us craves a recognition of his
talents and his labors; but this craving is in
danger of becoming morbid unless it be
constantly kept in check by calm reflection
on its vanity. or by dwelling upon the very
different and far l[---]her motives which
ought to actuate us. That man has fallen
into a pitiable state o[-] moral sickness in
whose eyes the good opinion of his fellow
men is a test of men [--]d their applause
the principal reward of exertion.—Helps.


MISS Mary Carpenter is doing a great
work in India. She anticipates establishing
institutions of learning and education for
females at Karachi and Hyderabad. This
winter she is making a tour of Southern
India first for the purpose of education, and
then through the Northern Provinces, and
return to Bombay sometime in March. This
lady is of that type of character which
seems never to falter or swerve in purpose
where good is to be accomplished, if energy
and determination will succeed.


"THE sacred heavens around him shine-"
wrote the poet. The compositor put it:
"The scared hyenas around him whine."


138		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

	R. S. REPORTS.

	GOSHEN, UTAH Co. Jan. 27th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing the kind interest you take in
the young and rising generation, I submit
a few items to your notice and for publica-
tion should you see fit.  At the instigation
of the President of our Relief Society, Mrs.
Mary Johnson, we have started a Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association
in this place.  Our Bishop and his Counsel-
ors with a few other brethren met with
some of our sisters for the purpose of organ-
izing, and made some excellent remarks ap-
propriate to the occasion. We have held
our fifth Semi-Monthly meeting all of
which have been well attended, our young
girls having taken hold with a zest. We
also have a paper edited by Mrs. C. Higgin-
son, entitled "The Young Ladies' Gem" in
which are very creditable pieces composed
by our young people.  I am also glad to
state that we have a Young Men's meeting
in course of progress by which both young
and old hope to be benefitted. The follow-
ing are the names of those who were cho-
sen to act as officers of the young ladies' or-
ganization:
	President, Mrs. Hattie Higginson; Vice
President, Mrs. Mary Dodds; Counselors,
Mrs. C. Higginson, Mrs. Louisa Taylor, Mrs.
Mary Wilson, and Miss Nancy Thomas;
Treasurer, Miss Emma Stanfield; Superin-
tendent of Secretaries, Mrs. M. A. Till;
Presiding Secretary, Miss Florrila Cook;
Assistant Secy's., Misses', Rosella McKee,
Sarah Jane Thomas, Lizzie Jaird, Emma
Morgan, Lizzie Jenkins; Superintendent,
Mrs. Mary Johnson.
	Our resolutions are as follows:
	1st. Resolved, That each member take an
active part in said meetings such as in read-
ing, writing essays, or uniting in prayer for
the mutual instruction and benefit of the
whole.
	2nd. Resolved, That we set an example
worthy of imitation in dressing becomingly,
and not follow after the foolish fashions of
teh world, and to show by engaging only
in the best and most approved styles of
dancing, a wish to reform in everything as
soon as possible.
	3rd. Resolved, That we are expected to 
keep the "Word of Wisdom" in every
sense, and abstain from hot and strong
drinks and everything injurious to the sys-
tem.
	4th. Resolved, That we consider it our
duty as members, to attend Sabbath and
Fast Day Meetings, Sunday Schools and
other like assemblies for mutual improve-
ment.
	5th. Resolved, That we will be more re-
served in our actions and conversation
and not indulge in loud laughter or disor-
derly behavior in meeting or social gath-
erings, we also agree to keep good hours,
and cultivate the spirit of charity, and not
speak lightly of each other, or of sacred
things.
	6th. Resolved, That we maintain our
dignity as young ladies, thereby influencing
the young men to refrain from their loose
habits, and induce them to cultivate good
language, and manners that we may not
feel ashamed of their society.
	It was deemed wisdom that the senior
sisters hold positions in the Association for
a time to give the young girls a fair start,
and a chance to learn of those more expe-
rienced, but to let the meetings be wholly
the young girls.
	Ever desiring the prosperity of Zion, I
remain your sister in the bonds of love.
	MARY ANN TILL.

[COLUMN 2]

	CEDAR CITY, IRON CO. UTAH.
		Jan. 26, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A reorganization took place in our Re-
lief Society, June 3rd, 1875. Mrs. Sarah
Uric was chosen President, Mrs. Mary Ann
Lunt and Mrs. Sage Jones, Counselors; Miss
Sarah Jane Leigh, Treasurer; Mrs. Ellen
Lunt Secretary, and Miss Jane Parry Assist-
ant Secretary. The former officers having
resigned with the exception of the Secre-
tary.
	Our society is in a flourishing condition,
and we are trying to do all in our power
to aid in rolling on the great work of the
Latter-days.
	Bishop Henry Lunt, Elders C. J. Arthur,
Jens Neilson, and Francis Webster met with
the sisters of the Relief Society, Dec. 9th,
1875 to organize a Young Ladies, Retrench-
ment Association. After the Bishop had
spoken at some length on Retrenchment,
Home Manufacture, Word of Wisdom etc.
Miss Martha Henrietta Lunt was nomina-
ted and sustained as President,
	Miss Sarah Jane Leigh,
	"	Rachel Corry,
	"	Amy Webster,
	"	Cathrine Stewart,		Counselors.
	"	Mary Mackelprang,
	"	Mary Neilson,
	"	Rachel Corry, Treasurer,
	"	Nellie Duncan, Secretary,
	"	Emmeline Haight, Assistant Sec'y.
	Mrs. Sarah Chatterly, Superintendent,
	"	Mary Ann Parry and Mrs. Ann
Elizabeth Arthur, Assistants.
	The brethren made some very appropri-
ate remarks and it was a good time long to be re-
membered for good.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		ELLEN LUNT, Sec'y.

	HYRUM, CACHE Co., Jan. 31st, 1876
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The young ladies of the Retrenchment
Association held their 4th anniversary at
10, a. m. Friday, Jan. 20th. On the stand
were Elders Hans E. Neilson, and John G.
Wilson, Counselors to Bishop Lilgenquest.
In the absence of sister Hansen our Presi-
dent (through sickness) Sister Christina Lil-
genquest President of the Relief Society
presided.
	We had an excellent time and much val-
uable instruction was given to the young
ladies.
	The name of our Association was chang-
ed to the Hyrum Young Ladies' Mutual
Improvement Society and the following of-
ficers were elected for the ensuing year:
Mrs. Caroline C. Hansen, President; Mrs.
Ann M. Hansen, Mrs. Mina Unsworth, Mrs.
Henrietta Lilg[-]nquest, Misses Cecilia D.
Wilson, Eliza Benson, Phinetta Williams,
Harriet Osborn, and Sarah Osborn Counsel-
ors; Mrs. Rebecca Allen Secretary, Miss
Cynthia E. Nelson Assistant Secretary Mrs.
Josephine Johnson Treasurer.
	At 2 p. m. a ball was held in the Public
hall under the sole management of the la-
dies and right well did they discharge their
duties, Mrs. Corbit showed such spirit and
activity as floor manager, that we are satis-
fied she will be called upon to discharge this
duty again. Refreshments were served at
5 o'clock, and at 10 p. m. the dance closed,
and a very pleasant and cheerful time end-
ed with the good feelings of all.
	There was no round dancing, in fact we
have abolished it altogether, and not only
ladies but the gentlemen have taken the
wise counsel of President Young and cheer-
fully close their parties at 10 o'clock. We
are pleased to say that we are endeavoring

[COLUMN 3]

to improve ourselves and trying to prepare
for those responsibilities that ere long must
rest upon the daughters of Zion. Let us
follow in that path which has been marked
out by the principles of the Gospel.
	Ever praying for the prosperity of the 
EXPONENT which should be read by every
woman in the church, and hoping you will
excuse this my first attempt, I remain your
Sister,
	REBECCA ALLEN Secretary.

	GUNNISON, Feb. 1st, 1876.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I have been thinking about writing for
some time, but have neglected it, not being
accustomed to write for a paper. The 28th
of last June the sisters of this place had a
pleasant visit from Sisters Eliza R. Snow,
M. I. Horne, E. Howard, and E. S. Barney.
They organized a society called: The Young
Ladies's Retrenchment Association of Gun-
nison. We meet every two weeks; open
with prayer and singing, and have select
reading and essays; we try to improve in
every thing which is good and commenda-
ble.
	The officers were elected as follows:
	Mrs. Helena Madson, President,
	Nettie Sorenson,
	Trene Caldwell,
	Frederica Fellstead
	Jane Caldwell,			Counselors.
	Jane Gribble,
	Christina Christenson,
	Miss Sarah Capsson, Secretary,
	Miss Jane Caldwell, Assistant Secretary.

	MINERSVILLE, BEAVER Co. Jan 26th '76.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I have been thinking of writing for some
time to let you know how we are getting
along with our Relief Society, but have
neglected it not being accustomed to write
for a paper. We were organized February
6th, 1871 with about forty members. Lydia
Blackburn was chosen as President, Sarah
Myres, Nancy Blackburn, as Counselors;
Mary Ann Stoddard Treasurer, and Rachel
Marshal Secretary. Since that time we have
bought a house which cost $190, where we
meet twice a month, we have donated to
the St. George Temple $93, and to the poor,
$77. We have a little left in the treasury,
and with the assistance of the Lord we still
feel to continue in good works. We have
no one in need at present, but we are all
poor (in our own estimation at least) and very
busy, but I think we all mean to do about
right.
	I believe the sisters are all right in the
principles of faith, and may the spirit of
the Lord still continue with us and all simi-
lar organizations in all our labors.
	MRS. RACHEL MARSHAL
		Secretary.


THE late Lord Brougham was addressing
a public meeting at Edinburgh, soon after
his resignation of the Chancellorship in
1833-34. "People of Edinburgh" cried the
orator, in concluding an impassioned vindi-
cation of his political career, "these hands
are clean." And suiting the action to the
word, he threw out his dexter and sinister
psalms for the public inspection. A tremendous
burst of applause was elicited from the
adroit peroration; but as the noise subsided,
the voice of a North British positivist on the
back benches was audible, saying, "ay
Harry, they're clean enough morally; but
phezically they'd be nane the waur for soap.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	139


SUBMISSION.
The sunshine lay along the sands
In lingering, level, shining bands,
Into an open cell it shone,
Where Monk Marcarius sat alone,
And started as a shadow fell
Across the glitter in his cell.
"Father," a burdened sinner said,
"How shall my peace with God be made.
How shall I live the life of Saints
For which my hungry spirit faints?"
"Fly from the sight of man my son,
"So be thy Christian race begun—
In solitude thy sins lament,
By night and day thy deeds repent.
Sin not in speech, thy tongue control,
So shalt thou save thy sinful soul."
That night Marcarius on his bed
Heard a sweet voice that softly said:
"Thou thinkest goodness dwells with thee,
Rise! go to yonder town and see!
Beside the shore two women dwell
Far above thee as heaven from hell."
At early dawn, with prayer and groan,
Marcarius left his cell alone,
And sought the city's busy roar,
The craftsman's street beside the shore,
Where Claudia and Indora sat
Braiding together on a mat.
With accents stern, the abbot said:
"What life, O women! have ye led
That any angel should come down
To give to you a saintly crown?"
With startled eyes, and lips apart,
And mingled words, as one in heart.
"We are our husband's wives and try
To live in love and unity,
No Saint, O father! can we be,
But two poor women as you see."
"Nay!" muttered he, "Some mightier grace,
Has sanctified your dwelling place.
What have ye offered to the Lord?
What duty done? what sin abhorred?
How, in the crowded wrangling street,
Made of your lives an odor sweet?"
"We have done nothing. Once we said
For God's sake we would be unwed,
And live as nuns in convent cell;
Our husbands did not think it well.
So then, we only made a vow
To live in christian peace as now,
Nor let a word of strife or wrong
Be heard again from either tongue.
The father bowed his head and sighed,
Obedient! silent! self-denied,
And women too? Ah Lord! I see
How far this life surpasseth me."
A wiser and a better man
His course from thence Marcarius ran.
O saint and abbot sleep in peace,
I pray not that thy tribe increase,
For if that angel come again
To cleanse a soul from sinful stain;
In what new land, beside what sea,
Could two such wondrous women be?
		SELECTED.


[Column 1]
		PIPSEY PAPERS.
	We often hear some one, who thinks he
knows all about it singing or speaking the
praises of Saturday night. They are men of
course and think themselves fully posted on
the subject. From their standpoint per-
haps they are. They come to their homes
full of life and vigor with their week's la-
bor finished and their minds at rest, sit
themselves down at the cheerful fire in the
clean pleasant sitting rooms or kitchens or
both as the case may be, draw up the spit-
toon or send a squirt over the spotless floor,
take a piece of paper and draw a few pic-
tures of the beauties and comforts of Satur-
day night. But my view is from another
standpoint, it is the woman's side of the
question. I said to Mollie what a fine thing
Saturday night is; "Yes, said she, why
don't you write about it? I will take care
of the baby to-morrow if you will sit down
and tell them about Saturday night." I will
try, but I shall fail to do justice to the sub-
ject.
	I have been busy all the week but I can-
not see that I have accomplished much but

[Column 2]
that which will have to be done next week
just the same. I have worked and worried
all day trying to make things neat and tidy
for the Sabbath, and have things in order
to commence another week; I have search-
ed the dirt from the corners, wiped the lit-
tle finger marks from the doors, washed
and scrubbed until both brain and hands
are thoroughly tired; the chairs are set back,
the furniture dusted, the fire shines bright
and supper is ready-a cheerful picture cer-
tainly. But presently the doors open and
in comes a troop of noisy children with
muddy feet. How every tramp and every
scream goes through my weary nerves and
aching head, but it is Saturday night and
the little ones must all be washed and dress-
ed clean for Sunday. That is a work
on which mothers in general are posted, and
certainly the most trying labor of the day;
for who ever washed a child that had not a
sore somewhere and did not give a pierc-
ing shriek at the most unexpected moment;
scratches and chapped hands are generally
the order of the day. A friend of mine
tells me that she has to wash her children
before night, as their father is tired when
he comes home and does not wish their
noise; happy husband to have all annoyan-
ces over before he comes home.
	Another round of supper dishes to wash,
dirty clothes to pick up and things to make
tidy again. The children put to bed and 
all quiet, mother crawls into bed with the
fretful baby, tired and aching in every joint.
and after tossing and turning awhile goes
off to sleep thanking the Lord that Satur-
day night is over once more. And this is
the picture of Saturday night for the ma-
jority of mothers, and will answer for a ma-
jority of the years notwithstanding the
poems and pretty things that are written
about Saturday night.
	I ought to tell you something about how a
woman writes, at least how I write, it may
not suit all women as well. I often think
of a picture I saw once, called "The pursuit
of art under difficulties." It represented a
man trying to paint a picture: He was
standing before an easel, trying to keep a
baby still by holding it straddle of his
shoulders, while three or four older ones
were turning somersaults, and tossing so-
fa cushions at each other just behind him.
And that is the picture I think of when I
try to write. I often do not complete two
lines without stopping to talk of something
else, or getting up to wait on the children.
It is "ma this" or "ma that", so I hope my
readers are not disappointed if I fail to give
them anything very entertaining; but re-
member that it is the pursuit of LITERA-
TURE under difficulties.
	When I was cutting garments last fall a
neighbor lady coming in to assist me said,
"let me show you my way, perhaps you will
like it better." She tore two pieces the
length that was wanted, folded them
neatly together, laid the pattern on and cut
both sides at once. I was so well pleased
that I always cut that way since, it saves
so much time. I always thought it such a 
tedious job to cut garments, and I suppose
there are many who are just as awkward as
I was.
	When I was a little girl about twelve
years old, there was a lady who gathered
the children to her house both boys and
girls one afternoon every week and taught
them the principles of the Gospel. She
sang with us and taught us the meaning of
the hymns. I had never before thought of
any meaning being connected with them;
she also had us read verses in the Book of
Mormon and the Bible, and explained them
to our childish understandings, taught us

[Column 3]
to pray and told us the meaning of prayer.
There was a houseful every Thursday after-
noon, and I suppose there are many now liv-
ing who can remember their first childish
efforts at speaking and praying, and the
principles of honor and honesty instilled in-
to their minds by her kind and zealous la-
bor. It was a labor of love. She said it
was her mission, and that she kept the
names of all her scholars and gave them to
President Young. I have not seen her for
many years, and do not know if she is liv-
ing or dead. But this I know, her memory
lives in one heart at least, and I shall al-
ways think of her with reverence. Her
name is Hencord, and if this should meet
her eye she will have the satisfaction of
knowing that the seed she sowed has
born good fruit in one heart at least, and
her mission was not all in vain.
			MARY.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.
	On the second and last day's session of
the Woman's Suffrage Association, just held
at Tallmadge Hall, Washington, Mrs. Gage
in the chair, the following proceedings oc-
curred, as reported in the Washington
Chronicle—
	"Mrs. Lockwood called attention to a vis-
it of a delegation from Utah to the Presi-
dent of the United States, in regard to the
Suffrage privilege in that Territory, yester-
day morning; and she said she saw in that
a design to prevent the women of Utah from
voting, and offered the following additional
resolution in that connection, which was
also adopted—
	"Resolved, That the right of Suffrage
being vested in the women of Utah, by
their constitutional and lawful enfranchise-
ment and by its peers of use, we denounce
the proposition about to be again presented
to Congress by the Utah ring for the dis-
franchisement of thousands of legal voters
in that Territory, as an outrage on the free-
dom of the people and a gross invasion of
a vested right; that we denounce the abo-
lition of the system of numbering the bal-
lots, in order that the women may be thor-
oughly free to vote as they choose, without
supervision or instruction; and that the
chair appoint a committe of three persons,
with power to add to their number, to
memorialize Congress and otherwise to
watch over the women of Utah in this re-
gard during the next twelve months.'
	"The chair appointed Mrs: B. A. Lock-
wood, Mrs. S. J. Spencer and Ellen C. Sar-
gent as the committee."


A DEVONSHIRE rector who was master
of a rattling pack of hounds, was much in
want of a curate. His church warden—
Zozer—paying the market town a visit, was
thus accosted by his grocer; "Well Mr. Zo-
zer, have ye got a coorate yet fur Bridg-
well?" "Not yit, they don't all suit mais-
ter; but there's his advertisement so I reck-
on he'll soon get one;" "Wanted, a curate
for Bridgwell; must be a gentleman of mod-
erate and orthodox views." Orthordox,
Mr. Zozer, what does he mean by orthor-
dox?" "Well," said the church warden
thoughtfully, and in deep perplexity, know-
ing the double nature of the curate's duties,
which were secular as well as sacred. "I
can't exactly say, but I reckon 'tis a man
as can ride pretty well."


To most men, experience is like the stern
light of a ship, which illumines only the
track it has passed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS,  } Editors.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS. 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15, 1876.


[Column 1]
		AN OPINION.
	If the present Congress would adopt two
measures—n[-]mely to admit Utah as a state
and grant the women of the United States
their political rights—it would make a gener-
ous showing for America's Centennial. But
men holding authority do not seem inclined
now, more than in times past, to make any lib-
eral move toward either of the causes referred
to, especially the former.
	They appear, these public officers who are
invested with so much power, at least some of
them appear to be desirous of seeking justice—a
kind of justice—enacted. But they are so
short-sighted, so willfully blind that they can-
not or will not comprehend what justice is or
ought to be in relation to an innocent and
much abused people, the Mormons.
	Totally disregarding the crimes and corrup-
tion which exist in their own midst, which
they do not and cannot deny, they still seek,
as they have been doing for years, to justify
themselves in reaching out to Utah, extending
malignancy against polygamy.
	His honor, Chief Justice White, in his recent
charge to the Grand Jury, introduced some
striking evidences—as he supposes doubtless—
in favor of the suppression of polygamy as be-
lieved in and practised by the Latter-day
Saints. But his arguments like those of his
numerous predecessors, want the quality of be-
ing altogether sound, according to the sense in
which a Latter-day Saint must view them.
	The Judge says "If Mormonism cannot sev-
er itself from polygamy, it will be to it the
bridal of death." But the Lord has promised
better things to those who honor and obey the
doctrine of Celestial marriage; and the Saints
have occasion to trust Him rather than to fear
the predictions of those who understand not
His law and enter not into covenant with Him.
	His honor speaks of "testing" the Mormons
and their religion "by a standard which the
world recognizes as just," but it is not to be
supposed that the Lord of Hosts would recog-
nize a judgment thus rendered against His
people and against the religion of His Son Je-
sus Christ.
	The Judge gives the Mormons much credit
for industry, frugality, temperance and hon-
esty; that they have redeemed this portion of
country from sterility; have neither beggers
nor alms-houses, and are a law abiding people
in every respect but one. This one objection-
able practice he styles "the principle of self-
destruction." But a careful and honest inves-
tigation would readily show that this is a mis-
taken idea in which the Judge indulges. That
the polygamy of the Mormons is a self preserv-
ing principle instead of being self destroying.
	He says "The supreme law-making power is

[Column 2]
all against the advocates of polygamy." In
this he is again mistaken, for he fails to recog-
nize the All supreme power of God, which man
cannot gainsay, and by which polygamy was
instituted among the Saints.
	He speaks of "Forty millions of people
against less than one hundred thousand," and
says farther, "The public opinion of the civil-
ized world is against polygamy, and in the
nineteeth century no institution can stand
against this public opinion." Polygamy has
stood for a number of years, in this century,
however; and if its advocates still hearken to
the words of the Lord and strive diligently to
know and do His will, with such a Command-
er-in-chief they have nothing to fear from the
public opinion of the world, civilized or un-
civilized.
	His honor compares the polygamy of the
Mormons with the slavery of the South, as
others have done But did God ever command
the white people of the Southern States to
make slaves of the negroes, to buy and sell
them like cattle, and put them to work like
dumb beasts? If the holding of slaves was any
part of the religion or religions of the Southern
people it was never made to appear so. And
if God had spoken to those people and com-
manded them to keep slaves, surely he would
have sustained them in doing so against all
opposition, or he would have warned them
when He wished the practice discontinued.
The Lord never gives commandments wherein
He fails to uphold and sustain those who listen
to Him and seek to carry out His purposes.
	Therefore no Latter-day Saint need think of
surrendering to the opponents of truth. But
all should be in readiness to receive the word
of God, determined to live by it whatever its
requirements may be.
	Should Congress pass laws by which the
Mormons will be robbed of their political
rights, (but we do not believe they will.) it
will only redound to the glory of God in some
new and unexpected manner, so that the Saints
may still sing with the ancient psalmist.
	"Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee;
the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain."


[Column 1]
		AFFECTATION.
	"A man of sense can artifice disdain,
	As men of wealth can venture to go plain:
	I find the fool when I behold the screen
	For 'tis the wise man's interest to be seen."
			YOUNG.

	Active people are usually the most natural
and unaffected, in any point of character or
style. People who are wide awake and ener-
getic generally have ideas and manners of their
own and are not dependent upon outside in-
fluences or impressions for any advancement
or growth of intelligence. Self-help is the best
preservation against imitation. Affectation is
most frequently the result of a want of anima-
tion a lack of energy, the effect of listlessness
and indifferenee; it is always easier to adopt
the ideas and tone of another than to invest
one's self with originality, that is only copy-
ing, whereas the latter requires some inher-
ent genius; persons who are not endowed with
faculties are justifiable in adopting the style of
others. To think requires exertion, exercise of
the brain, and to think to some purpose re-
quires one to cultivate their perceptive facul-
ties and powers.
	The fool never thinks, or rarely, and then
his thoughts are only narrow and selfish.
Those who possessing the powers of mind and
body equal to all the exigencies of life allow
themselves to drift into the ideas of others and
and adopt them, without thorough and close

[Column 2]
investigation, are not worthy the respect of
their cotemporaries. Such persons are certainly
accountable if led into error, for being endow-
ed with powers of judgment, and too idle to use
them, is a grevious sin. Would it not be just
as consistent to array one's self in the garments
of another and parade them before the public,
as to take possession of their ideas and herald
them forth as the spontaneous growth of one's
own fertile brain. Such people merge their
own individuality into that of the person whose
cloak they assume, and having no self-respect,
therefore command no respect from others.
	All who would have an honorable name and
an influence of any lasting good, should re-
spect themselves sufficiently to act unaffect-
edly on all occasions, and to express them-
selves only upon those subjects with which they
are thoroughly acquainted by careful study
and observation.
	To play one's own part in the great drama of
life, is not only more commendable and praise-
worthy, but more truly beneficial to one's self,
than to idle away one's time in copying the
manners and imitating the style of another,
while the character to be represented lies idle
and the duty of sustaining it devolves upon
another. Truth is substantially the same, but
one must understand it to be truth from all re-
liable sources of information, otherwise one is
as likely to accept error as truth, taken upon
the testimony of another. All persons who
have arrived at the age of understanding
should be able to give "a reason for the hope
that is within them" else they are likely to be
deceived, for let those in whom they trust and
whose opinions they hold sacred, become dark
or as abstruse in their system of thinking, then
they too fall into darkness. But let each one
be assured for themselves and they will stand
or fall for themselves.
	All who possess true dignity of character will
act in accordance with their own convictions,
or guided by the spirit of God, independent of
those whose attributes they may justly admire.
Affectation is in itself disgusting to every per-
son of refined taste or cultivated mind. If any
person thinks they can ever attain any emi-
nence social or exclusive, without diligence or
application they are mistaken.
	Some people seem to look upon others and
wish the knowledge and attainments they
have gained could be bestowed upon them by
enchantment; but to gain the prize, one must
practise self-denial and apply themselves
closely to the achievement of the fixed purpose.
There are persons who are perhaps looked upon
as idlers who work harder than the day-labor-
er; brain work is the most engrossing of all
work. You may hear the plowman singing as
he drives the plow the carpenter whistle as he
shoves the plane, but the Dr. the lawyer, the
lecturer, the manager of business etc. must
keep silence and think. Many people imagine
one's thoughts spring up spontaneously like
mushrooms in certain productive soils, and
that it is as easy to preach, and write as to per-
form manual labor adapted to the person's
physical strength; but let those who judge thus
become familiar with profound thinkers, elo-
quent preachers and brilliant writers, and see
whether there are not hours of abstraction and
nights of sleeplessness. They will discover
what it would be well for such persons to know,
that the highest prizes are hardest won; and
the greatest victories are not to be obtained by
the cowardly and shrinking. It is easier to fol-
low than to lead, it is far easier to follow along
the beaten path that another has cut by their
courage and skill; but to mark out one's own
way, in spite of custom, fearless of [-]eers, or
criticisms or even sarcasm, is worthy a hero.


It is true of some people, that to affect others
is their nature, for they have no standard of
their own, apart from their surroundings and
the people about them, or the imaginations
and phantasies they construct from the authors
they read. They can readily change their
model, but can never be themselves. They
have no originality and cultivate no strength
of character to aid them, but are liable to be
drifted about hither and thither the victims of
circumstances, or at the will of a stronger
mind.


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.	141


HOME AFFAIRS.
	ACKNOWLEDGEMENT.—Those excellent ap-
ples from Santaquin, were large, fair, delicious,
and, like true friends, "unrotten at the core"
Their real value was greatly enhanced by an
"Honorable" presentation. Many thanks to
our highly respected and worthy sisters, Mrs.
Elizabeth Stickney, Pres. of the Relief So-
ciety, and Mrs, Mary Stickney, Pres. of the
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association.
			E. R. SNOW.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT is calculated to
contain a condensed record of the Relief So-
ciety and each of its branches throughout the
Territory. Therefore whenever the death of
any one of the members of the Society occurs,
an accurate account should be forwarded to the
EXPONENT. But we have before stated and
now repeat, that we cannot publish obituary
poems.


WOMEN'S CENTENNIAL TERRI-
		TORIAL FAIR.

TO THE RELIEF SOCIETIES, RETRENCHMENT
	ASSOCIATIONS, AND ALL OTHERS INTEREST-
	ED IN THE WELFARE OF UTAH.

SISTERS:
	Without an appropriation, which you are
aware, our Honorable Legislature has not seen
proper to grant, we cannot forward our speci-
mens to the "Woman's Pavilion" in Philadel-
phia as was anticipated.
	Notwithstanding this disappointment, we
need not regret the efforts that have been made,
but let us turn them to good account, and do
the next best thing, by uniting our energies in
getting up a Centennial Territorial Exhibition
at home.
	It is anticipated that many of our own, and
of other nations who visit the National Exhi-
bition will, in crossing the Continent, come to
Salt Lake City, to whom our Fair will be an
object of attraction, if we are energetic in col-
lecting curiosities of all kinds—specimens of
Art and every variety of manufactures &c, &c.
	This subject was proposed to a large assem-
blage of the Senior and Junior Co-operative
Retrenchment Association convened in the 14
Ward Assembly Rooms on Saturday last, and
a unanimous vote passed in favor of the move-
ment.
	A home Exhibition has many advantages
over one abroad. The expenditures are less,
and the risk in loss of property in transporta-
tion, avoided.
	Those who nobly responded to the call, and
are bravely at work preparing specimens, can
now proceed more leisurely; and the hundreds
who necessarily declined doing, on account of
the little time allotted, will now enlist their
skill and energies, and a more general interest
will be manifested.
	Another important consideration—we shall
not be so particular in the selection of articles,
and consequently, many more varieties will be


admitted, and a larger number of duplicates of
the same varieties, which will call into exer-
cise every grade of artistic ability. It is de-
signed that the Fair shall be open during two
months, probably from the middle of June to
the middle of August.
		ELIZA R. SNOW.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 9th, 1876.


R. S. REPORT.

DEAR EDITOR:
	Knowing that you feel a decided inter-
est in our advancement, I send you a report
of the Thirteenth Ward Retrenchment As-
sociation, and of the progress made since
our organization in March 13th, 1875. Our
society then numbered twenty three mem-
bers not including the officers. Now there
are seventy-five belonging and numbers
steadily increasing.
	In August last our President Mrs. E.
Thomas, opened a knitting school for the
young ladies of the society, teaching all
kinds of wool knitting, principally jackets,
intending to be ready in the fall to fill or-
ders for them.
	The young ladies were successful in learn-
ing, but have not been able to obtain yarn of
colors and quantity to suit them. There is a
lively interest taken by the President, as-
sisted by some of the members in preparing
articles for the Centennial. Last week she
visited the Provo Woolen Mills and expects
to receive from there a good assortment of
colored wools.
	There is great interest taken, by the
members in improving and gaining a know-
ledge of their religion; all seeming to real-
ize the advantages offered by meeting to-
gether and being instructed by those who
are spending their time for the good of
Zion.
	Most Respectfully Yours,
			L. A. Ashby,
				Secretary.
	Thirteenth Ward, Jan. 26, 1876.


EDITORS OF WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Knowing that you delight in everything
good, I send you the following

		GOOD JOKE.
	The question "What is an acute angle?"
was given to the worst boy in school. He
did not hesitate but boldly answered
	"Bet Hotche's nose."
	The boys thought it a good joke, but it did
not end there. It was Monday morning,
but Bet had a good memory, and on Friday
afternoon among the closing exercises for
the week she was chosen to read a selection
from the Bible. She opened the book and
read in a very impressive manner,
	"When the Lord comes to make up His
jewels, some will be first chosen whom
many of you my schoolmates, think little of.
But for such fellows as David Dodd, no place
will be found in Heaven, except they repent
of their foolish ways and seek forgiveness
for their trespasses."
	"Dave" shortly afterward signified his
penitence, and "Bet" readily forgave him.
He always attends Sunday school and meet-
ings now, something his mother could nev-
er prevail upon him to do before. He still
declares that "Bet" coined the best passage
of Scripture he ever heard. And notwith-
standing her angular nose, he has taken her
to the lectures and parties for three years


in succession. Next spring they are to be
married.
		MAUD LILY.

	P. S.
	"Dave" was about to relate this joke in
one of the meetings of The Young Men's
Mutual Improvement Association, but after
reflection, he thought it would do the Re-
trenchment girls more good, so upon his
suggestion I send it to you.
			M. L.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Frozen potatoes may be cured by soaking them
in water three days before cooking.

	Remedy for Chillblains.—One ounce of tannin
to be dissolved in a pint of water and four scru-
ples of iodine in a sufficiency of alcohol; the solu-
tions to be mixed up to two pints. Then make
the solution hot and immerse the affected part in
it as long as the heat can be borne.

	Stuffed eggs.—Boil them hard cut them in two
and remove the yelks, and beat them up with a
little grated ham, parsley, pepper and salt to taste;
place this mixture within the whites, cut the un-
derpart a little so as to make them stand well on 
the dish, and serve with white sauce.

	To Ice a Cake.—Beat the whites of two eggs
to a stiff froth, mix in gradually half a pound of
icing sugar till quite smooth, lay the mixture
evenly on the cake after it is baked and before it is
cold. Place it in a cool oven to harden but not to
brown. It can be ornamented if wished before
putting it in the oven.

	Novelty Pudding.—Make a teacupful of strong
well-cleared coffee; beat four eggs with five ounces
of sugar, one pint of milk previously boiled, and
a half pinch of salt, add the coffee strain into a
pie-dish two inches deep: put the dish into a sauce
pan with sufficient boiling water to reach to the
middle of the dish; put into a moderate oven till
quite firm; when cold, sprinkle powdered sugar
over it and glaze with a red hot iron.

	Cheap Pudding.—Peel and core about half a
dozen apples according to their size, cut them in
slices and lay them in a pie-dish; sprinkle them
with sugar (powdered) and then put a thin layer
of apricot or other jam. Take two ounces of ar-
rowroot; mix it with a pint of milk a little sugar
and a small piece of butter; stir it over the fire
until it boils, and then pour it into the pie-dish with
the apples and jam, and bake until it is done.

	Starching Linen.—Make a liquid paste with
good fine starch and cold water, and stir in boiling
water until a stiff paste is formed, and add white
wax say one ounce of wax to a pound of starch,
the exact proportions for smaller quantities can
only be determined by experience. If it is de-
sirable that the linen should be very stiff, pow-
dered gum arabic may be added to the cold water
with which the starch is mixed. The strained
starch should be thoroughly rubbed into the arti-
cles after they have been well wrung out, after
which they should be placed between dry cloths
and laid on an ironing board and rubbed in one di-
rection with a soft rag to distribute any lumps of
starch. Collars etc. should be ironed dry with a
hot iron and considerable pressure. The sticking
of the iron may be prevented by drawing it while
hot over wax and wiping it with a rag dipped in
salt.


Childrens Clothing.—Every mother should re-
member, that a small body is much more easily
chilled, and therefore needs much more protection
against cold than a large one, and that a child, ex-
cept when in active exercise, should be compara-
tively much more warmly clothed than a vigorous
adult.


142		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			FROM HAWAII,

		A UTAH BOY'S FIRST EXPERIENCE
			AWAY FROM HOME.

	By courtesy of Brother Geo. H. Taylor,
supt. of 14th Wd. Sunday School, we are
enabled to publish the following interesting
epistle from Elder Samuel P. Richards.

	I well remember with what feelings it
was that I arose before the school to bid
good bye to my mates, and the school with
which I had been connected ever since its
first organization in the ward; realizing at
the time, that I was to leave probably for
years, and possibly for ever, to go forth and
labor in the vineyard of the Lord, in a for-
eign land and among a people speaking a
language foreign to my own, and to pro-
claim to them the truths of the everlasting
Gospel, trusting in God alone for assist-
ance.
	My associations with the Sunday School
were always pleasant and many are the
good principles and ideas I there learned,
that have been useful to me, and which I
never shall forget.
	I left home, relatives and friends on the
first day of Nov. 1873, accompanied to Og-
den by some of my relatives, whom I bid
good bye at the depot at 7.15, p. m. when
the cars started and we sped swiftly on the
way.
	Although the separation from those near
and dear to me left feelings of sadness in
my heart, yet it was not long before they
were expelled by the excitement with
which I was surrounded, and through my
desire to see the new scenery and every
thing that was of interest to be seen on the
way, for it was a beautiful moonlight night,
and objects at a considerable distance, could
be seen almost as distinctly as at noon-day.
	Our little party consisted of six persons.
viz. R. G. Lambert and wife, H. S. Wool-
ley and wife, B. Stringham Jr. and myself,
all young, the eldest of the company being
but 23 years old.
	We were all of a somewhat lively dispos-
ition and consequently did not hug sorrow,
which somewhat surprised the passengers
on the train, for numbers of them asked us
"how it was that we, leaving our homes
under such circumstances, could do so and
feel so light hearted?" Of course they did
not know as we did, that we were going ac-
cording to the call of the true servants of
God, to do His will and His work, and that
He did not require us to pull long faces and
to go with downcast countenances.
	To enter into minutiae and tell about all I
saw on that short, swift ride of two days
and two nights, over nine hundred miles
of road of the most beautiful scenery,
would take up too much of my time, and the
space of this letter, besides tiring your pa-
tience. Suffice it to say that every minute,
almost, exhibited some thing new and in-
teresting to one who had never before left
home in the valleys of the Rocky Moun-
tains.
	The second day of our traveling we pass-
ed a great deal of beautiful scenery through
Truckee, from where large quantities of
lumber are shipped to S. L. City, and over
the Sierra Nevada mountains. Over that
part of the road, there are a great many R.
R. stations where little towns have sprung
up and where the trains stop for a few min-
utes at each place. Shortly before reach-
ing a station the engine whistle would
blow which would apprise the people of the
near approach of a train. Hardly would
the gratings of the wheels of the stopping
cars cease, when numbers of boys and girls,

[Column 2]
who probably never had the privilege of
attending Sunday school, would be seen
running to and fro with baskets on their
arms, crying out to the passengers to buy
their fruits; for they were little fruit ven-
ders.
	When we arrived at Sacramento, and
while the train was stopping for half an
hour, I went on board a large steam boat
standing in the Saeramento, near its bank.
	There were also many other vessels near
by and these were the first that I had ever
seen. It was also the first time that I had
ever seen a really large river and city,
and also so many people gathered together
at one place; with the exception of when
the semi-annual conferences were held in S.
L. City. But the Sacramento R. R. depot
is t[--]s thronged nearly every day.
	At 7.30 p. m. on Monday the 2nd day
from home, the cars drew up at "Oakland"
ferry, on the opposite side of the harbor
from San Francisco and we—the passengers
—were ushered, or huddled rather, into
what at first appeard to be a sheep pen, in-
closed by a high picket fence, but which we
soon found out to be the entrance to the
harbor ferry boat.  The way we went in
there was like driving sheep into a corral,
for there were a great many people waiting
to go in and the entrance, or gate, was a
narrow one, admitting only one person at a
time, for no one was allowed to go in who
did not have a ticket to present to the keep-
er.
	At the wharf on the opposite side there
was an immense crowd assembled and it
was with difficulty that we followed our
guide to the coach that was to take us to
the hotel. It seemed but a minute 'til I
found myself on top of that coach with a
number of other,s and was riding through
crooked winding streets and cross roads, in
the midst of rumbling vehicles and clatter-
ing of horses hoofs over the pavement of
rough cobble stones, and we came to a stand
in front of the hotel.
	What a relief it seemed to get into a
quiet room where we could hear ourselves
talk. I almost imagine I can hear that
rumbling noise now...We previously ex-
pected to spend but one day in San Francis-
co, but the sailing of the vessel, which was
to take us, was postponed from Wednesday
to Saturday. We passed away the time
in looking about the city and visiting places
of note and interest.
	'Twas here that I first saw, in large num-
bers the news boys and boot blacks, of
whom most Sunday School children in Utah
have heard so often. It was really amus-
ing to see and hear them parading the
streets at their different avocations. One
thing I did not notice in the metropolis of
California, but which is prevalent in most
large cities, and that was many beggars in
the streets asking for alms.
	Our time was both pleasantly and profita-
bly spent in the large city, and the rustic
country lad saw many things to open his
eyes and cause him to wonder. My young
Sunday School friends can never realize how
many people there are in the world, 'til
they have the privilege of visiting some of
the large cities of the world.
	Saturday afternoon, Nov. 8th, we went
on board the Bark "Comet," which was to
carry us across the great Pacific ocean to
our destination. Sails were raised, and a
small vessel, called a "tug" was hitched
along side of the "Bark" and hauled it out
past the "Golden Gate," the name given to
the entrance to the harbor. There are many
beautiful sights to be seen in San Francisco
but that from the deck of a vessel while leav-

[Column 3]
ing the city and sailing out through the
bay is really grand to behold.
	While the "tug" was fast to our vessel, it
glided smoothly over the surface of the
sea, and everybody on board seemed to feel
first rate; but just as soon as the "tug" let
go, the vessel began to roll and rock, and
then, O! what a change came o'er their (the
passenger's) dreams. One by one they be-
gan to descend into the cabin, and to hunt
for their berths, or beds, and long before
we were out of sight of the "Golden State,"-
the once crowded deck of the vessel was al-
most entirely deserted. This was the re-
sult of sea sickness, something which af-
fects nearly all, who live on land entirely,
when they first go to sea.
	Not being troubled with sea sickness my
self I could not sympathize with those who
were; but it is such a disagreeable thing
that those who are afflicted with it do not
care, at the time, whether the "ship sinks
or floats" or whether they "live or die."
All but two of our little party were sick,
but in the course of three or four days they
were well and hearty, and we all enjoyed as
best we could, the balance of our long tedi-
ous sea voyage.
	On the morning of the 17th day out from
San Francisco, we arose from our berths
and found ourselves in sight of land, the
vessel sailing busily along the island of
"Oahu," the principal of this, the "Sand-
wich Islands," group. This made every
heart glad, for all were weary of the sea
voyage and wishing to get to land.
	Of course the vessel was immediately in
an uproar, the sailors making preparations
to enter the harbor and the passengers pre-
paring to go ashore. Before we came in
sight of Honolulu, the pilot boat was seen
sailing toward us, for the pilot had pre-
viously been signaled to come aboard and
take the vessel in.
	Having been sent to labor amongst the
inhabitants of these islands, I was, of
cource, naturally anxious to see what the
people looked like and also to hear their
language. I therefore drew near where the
boat came along side of the "Bark." Imag-
ine my astonishment on beholding some
half dozen large, dark-skinned, naked na-
tives; at least their only article of clothing
was what is termed in native, a "malo,"
tied about their loins. When talking it
seemed to me that what they said was one,
long, continuous word, uttered in one breath,
and the question immediately sprung up
within myself; "I wonder if I shall ever be
able to understand any one, who speaks as
fast as they appear to talk?" Then remem-
bering the promise of the servants of God
"that I should obtain a knowledge of the
language of the people" the question was
speedily answered.
	When we left home (S. L. City) the trees
had shed their leaves, winter had put on
its own peculiar robes, and we had seen the
snow laying on the ground. But on arriv-
ing here it seemed like passing from win-
ter to spring; for here the grass was green
and growing on the hills, the leaves green
on the trees and the flowers in bloom in the
neat, pretty gardens.
	It was the sudden change that made
every place in Honolulu, (the harbor city
and capital of this group) and on the island
appear so beautiful. It was, to us, like en-
tering into a paradise.
	As soon as the native saints heard of our
arrival they flocked to where we were stop-
ping, to see us; but as they could not speak
a word of English, nor we a word of Hawa-
iian, we could not converse with them
only by motions until they brought in an in-


terpreter, when we told them all the news
from the "Valleys of the Mountains."
	We rode on horse back 32 miles to Laie,
the head quarters of the church on these
islands, and over the most beautiful part of
that island. The natives, men, women
and children, gathered around as soon as we
arrived to see the new comers, and brought
us "Leis" (wreaths of flowers strung like
beads) with which they nearly covered the
wives of the brethren; and they also sang
a variety of native songs for us.
	Our reception was indeed a pleasant one,
the only regret we had being, that we could
not utter a sentence of native language.
	We reached Laie on the 28th of Nov., and
on the 13th of the following month (Dec.) I
left the brethren and sisters (from Zion,) and
the pleasant associations with them, and
started off to live amongst the natives and
study their language. One of the brethren
who understood the native tongue accom-
panied me to a little village called Kawai-
kepal," about 22 miles from Laie, and after
holding a meeting with the saints, introduc-
ing me to them and seeing me provided
for, he returned and left me alone with the
natives.
	Such questions as "Wasn't you home sick?
Didn't you get the blues? Were you not very
lonesome there all alone with no one to talk
to but natives?" Might arise in the minds
of some; but I can truly say, in answer to
such questions, no, not at all.
	Had I had nothing to do I certainly would
have been lonely and home sick, but I had
plenty to occupy my time in studying the
language, committing words and sentences
to memory, and in trying to converse with
the natives for practice.
	Whenever a tired or lonely feeling would
come over me I would take a stroll and hunt
for some one with whom to try and con-
verse, and all such feelings would soon be
expelled.
	In this way I spent three months study-
ing, at that one place, returning to Laie pre-
vious to our April conference, and a very
short three months it seemed to me, my
mind being so engrossed in seeking for the
language, that the time passed very rapidly.
	I presume that most of the Sunday School
scholars, at least the larger ones, have heard
at some time or other, about the principal
article of native food called "Poi," and have
formed the opinion, or conceived the idea,
that it is a very disagreeable thing for a
white person to eat. Let a person who had
never tasted, look at it and he would natur-
ally think so; but when a person once gets
used to it there is no food, which I can think
of, that is more pleasant and agreeable; es-
pecially when hungry.
	It is made of a vegetable that grows in
the water and is somewhat similar to the
beet in shape, but which grows with the
larger end downwards. After the vegeta-
ble has been cooked with steam, being pla-
ced over red hot rocks and then covered
over tightly to prevent the steam from es-
caping, it is then pounded up fine on a
board with a rock, after which it is mixed
with water and formed into a paste of suit-
able thickness to suit the persons eating it.
The natives always eat it with their fingers,
It is eaten with fish fowl or meat of some
kind.
	We seldom find knife, fork or spoon, at a
native house, and not being accustomed to
eat with our fingers, we therefore have to
take such articles along with us in our trav-
els. "Poi" is not the only article of food;
but there are potatoes, squash melons, and
a variety of delicious fruits. It may seem
strange to the young people of S. L. City,
to be told that water melons are now ripe
here in the month of December, which is
almost the middle of winter there, but it is
so. I have, myself, eaten water melon here
this month, and there are ripe fruits of
some kind, fresh and growing, to be had all
the year round.
	We have no such thing as snow or frost
on these islands, it is summer all the year
round; consistently it is only by thinking
of the months that I can remember when it
is winter at home.
	There are many peculiarities of the na-
tives that would be interesting to relate, 
but I have not time to enlarge upon them.
The people generally, are kind and very
hospitable, and in all my travels I never
was refused hospitality but two or three
times when I asked for it. They are al-
ways free to give when they have, especi-
ally anything to eat; and it is a custom
with them, when ever a stranger or neigh-
bor comes to their place, to ask him, or her
to eat, providing they have anything, and
as it is not etiquette to refuse, a native will
sometimes when travelling around, eat from
three to ten times a day. I have often had
to eat when I really did not wish to, to
avoid giving offense.
	Natives seldom take thought for to-mor-
row, but if they get a sumptuous supply to-
day they turn in and eat it all up if they
can, and let the morrow take thought for
itself. Through this way of living they are
often compelled to go hungry.
	The men and boys usually do all the cook-
ing, and the women and girls work in the
"Lois" (where the food is cultivated in wa-
ter) and in the potato patches along with
the men.
	This people are generally very fond of
animals and it is no unusual thing to see
them keeping pigs, dogs, cats, chickens,
turkeys and geese, and allowing them to
run in and out of the house just as they
please; but when we visit and stay with
them they drive all the animals and fowls
out of doors.
	I have slept in native houses when there
were dogs, cats, and pigs within, besides
any quantity of little animals such as mice,
cockroaches, fleas and mosquitoes. Natives
can live and be happy in the midst of all
these things.
	How thankful to the Lord the children of
the Latter-Day Saints shoudl be, that they
have neat, clean, comfortable houses in
which to live, and kind parents to care for
them and teach them cleanly habits.
	Not so with the children of this people;
they run in a manner wild; go where they
please; when they please; and do just
about as they like. The parents have very
little control over their children.
	According to the law of the land every
child, when old enough, is compelled to at-
tend school so many hours a day; conse-
quently nearly every body, old and young
can read and write; but when out of school
their time is spent in play, for they seldom
do any work while attending school, which
is until they are from 12 to 16 years old.
	If it was not that they are dependent on
their parents for food, they would not work
at all or obey their parents commands. But
as it is they have to work a little and give
some heed to their parents in order to get
their food. Unless the young girls and
boys go to some English or high school, they
are not taught to be industrious, to do any
neat or useful work, learn trades or keep
themselves neat and tidy.
	Of course there are honorable exceptions
to this general rule but they are very few.
I believe the children living on Laie dress
better, are more cleanly, better behaved,
and know more about useful and beneficial
employment than do the children of any
other place on these islands, outside of the
English schools where they make it a point
to teach these things.
	Again, there is some little respect shown
there, to virtue and morality, which is not
the case with the mass of the people through-
out these islands. The almost total disre-
gard to these great and Godly principles is
the great cause of the astonishlingly rapid
decrease in the population of these islands
from over eighty thousand in 1850, to about
twenty thousand at the present time. An-
other cause is, that they have the true and
everlasting Gospel preached in their midst,
but they disregard its mandates, will not
obey its principles, nor will they hearken to
the councels and instructions of the ser-
vants of God laboring in their midst; there-
fore the wrath of the Almighty rests up-
on them.
	I have traveled around every island of this
group, where people are living, and we are
allowed to go; and many times have the
natives pointed out to me places where
there were cities, villages and lands that
were thickly populated with natives when
Geo. Q. Cannon and a number of the breth-
ren came down here in 1850, to open up the
Gospel of Life to the people, that now are
desolate and barren wastes.
	When the remnants of Israel living on
these islands, are gathered out to the land
of their inheritance, their numbers will be
very few indeed unless the Lord works a
wonderful change with the people.
	Since October conference I have been
traveling continually from one island to an-
other, returning to head quarters at the end
of each six months, to attend the confer-
ence, rest a couple of weeks or so, and then
start off again.
	Our labors amongst the outsiders, in pro-
claiming the Gospel to them is, to look at it
naturally, almost ineffectual, for they have
heard it so often, and have set their minds
against it through fear of their priests, that
they do not want to hear it any more.
	We therefore cannot do much but travel
amongst the sains, or the members of the
church, and teach and encourage them to do
right, live their religion, and keep the com-
mandments of God.
	It is that there are a few souls, who are
honest and trying to keep the command-
ments of the Lord, that gives us encourage-
ment in our labors. Much good can be done
by setting a good example if in no other
way.
	I have often attended the public meetings
of the Calvinists and Catholics the only
Christian sects established among the na-
tives, but never had the opportunity grant-
ed me of speaking in their churches but
twice. The priests fear to grant us the priv-
ilege lest we convert their members and
they (the priests) thereby loose the dollars
and cents that they get from them (the
members). They labor for money, and that
only.
	Br. Stringham (my fellow laborer) and
I recently visited the leper settlement on
the island of "Molokai." It almost seems
that the Lord foresaw the calamity that was
coming upon this people, and therefore pre-
pared that wonderful and applicable natu-
ral prison for those of the loathsome dis-
ease; for there are but two ways of entrance
or to egress from the place, and those are by
sea and down a very high and steep moun-
tain path.
	We slept at the settlement one night held
meeting with the members of the church,
and preached to an audience of lepers. It


is a sorrowful and heart-rending sight to see
the condition in which those poor human
beings exist, for it is a mere existence.
Not only are grown people affected with it
but also children and even babes. On my
former visit I saw them in every form of
the disease, from the first outbreaking on
the babe to the poor helpless being who
was within a few hours of undergoing that
great separation of soul and body, for then I
visited the hospital wards; but the last vis-
it I avoided the wards, not wishing to again
behold the awful sight. God will punish
those who disregard His laws.
	Bro. J. H. Napela, whom many may re-
member having seen in Utah in 1870, and
who is still at the settlement attending on
his wife, wishes a kind remembrance to all
with whom he made acquaintance while in
Salt Lake City.
	There are now seven hundred lepers
at the settlement, and about that many
more not yet gathered in from amongst the
people. Many having the disease are secre-
ted by their friends.
	As I have to write in a rather uncomfort-
able position, laying flat on my stomach on
a native mat, for in the native houses we
seldom ever find either stools, chairs or ta-
bles, I begin to feel tired. And I fear that
the length of this letter will wear out your
patience. What I have written I sincerely
hope will be of interest to all who pursue or
hear it read; for I have penned just such
thoughts as came to my mind that I sup-
posed would be of interest.
	I would say to the children of the Sun-
day School: Continue to be punctual attend-
ers; hearken to and carry out the counsel
and instructions of your teachers; store your
minds with useful knowledge, by reading
good books, and especially the publications
of the church; cease to read all fictitious
novels for they will never do you any good;
always be obedient unto your parents and
God will bless you.
	If opportunity offers I may at some fu-
ture day, again write to the school. *	*


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	143


144		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE FRANCHISE IN SANFRANCISCO.

	I am glad to know that there is one per-
son who can see the wisdom (?) of being
obliged to fold his ticket just four times, &c.
&c. Why, if all the minutiae of political
life and government have to be brought
down to so nice a point and every one treat-
ed as a knave, what a life this will be, and
how laborious and expensive!.
	"Steerforth" seems to infer that I spoke
without being familiar with the law I was
writing of. I was fully acquainted with it 
and spoke from my own standpoint of judg-
ment in regard to it. Since then I have
heard some of our ablest politicians and
professional men ridicule this same law se-
verely—as though a corporation could not
control the vote of their employees outside
of the prescribed hundred feet as firmly as
inside the hundred feet! This political wire-
pulling and money control of everything in
life is disgraceful to an independent people.
	If I could vote I would like to see the
person who could control my vote folded or
not folded, within or beyond a hundred feet
of the polls. I think the feminine charac-
ter is more decided and individual in all
that it believes to be right, and could wo-
men vote there would be fewer feminine
votes sold—even for a dress—than mascu-
line votes for a glass of whiskey.
	I should think employees would want the
perfect freedom of their vote to put in pow-
er a class who would not cripple them with


wrong influence, and any attempt to control
them thus ought to meet with co-operative
or at least individual, rebellion.  Progress
comes through independence of judgment,
and it seems to me that one's vote should be
the last act of freedom to sell.		BETH.
—Ex.


DIVERSIONS.

	IN the case of a man who died from hav-
ing all his teeth knocked out with a hatch-
et, an Alabama jury rendered a verdict of
death from ax-dental causes.

	A CLIENT complained to his counsel that 
the latter rambled too much in his argu-
ment to the jury.  "Oh," exclaimed the
barrister, "don't you know scattering shots
hit the most birds?"

	"TELL me, Mary, how to woo thee," is
the title of a well-known ditty. "Give her
a pair of diamond earrings and a tortoise-
shell comb for her back hair," suggests a
contemporary:

	IN a mining district not many miles dis-
tant, a queer sort of an original fellow ex-
pressed himself in the following ambigu-
ous style. "I DESCRIBED five dollars to
keep the road in DESPAIR, and then that
confounded railroad company made a TREAD-
WAY from the INJUNCTION to the CONFIN-
ING works."

	A BETTER retort is rarely heard than one
made by Andrew Johnson, in a speech de-
livered from the steps of the White House
when he was president. Some one in the
audience interrupted him with the remark,
"you used to make clothes!" "Well, if I
did" responded Mr. Johnson with the cool-
est self-possession, "didn't I make them
well? Can anybody say that, when I was
a tailor, I didn't make good clothes and
make them to fit."


[COLUMN 1]

AT TEASDEL'S
	On and after December 1st I will sell all Raisins and
Currants and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared,
thus giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their 
Mince Meat for Christmas. A full Supply of Presents for 
Christmas and New Year in useful and substantial items.
	Dried Apples, to the many inquiries. I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
	Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at 
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD. Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our 
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not or hand.
	Wm. H. MILES, supt.

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
	Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
	TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
23, MAIN STREET,

[COLUMN 2]

MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
	AGENTS FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
	Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

MILLINERY

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

Z. C. M. I.
	Wholesale and Retail Dealing
	in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS,  &c.

O.L. ELIASON
	DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
Second South Street, Opposite Walker
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted fo
ONE YEAR.

THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.

	LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantla.
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
or
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

H. E. PHELPS,
	29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
76, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
