VOL. 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1876.		No. 15.


For the EXPONENT
THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.

Another year has faded in the past,
	And we behold the dawning of the morn,
That ushers in the grand centen'ial year
	Since freedom in America was born.
Hail to its dawning! may its rays divine
	Illuminate each patriotic breast, 
And in the councils of the great and wise,
	May He preside Who doeth all things best.

Have we been honest with old Father Time?
	What record will he bear of us to heaven?
Is there a balance in our favor drawn,
	Of wrongs repented, or of sins forgiven?
Have we brought gladness into any heart,
	Or cheered with tender words, or acts of love
The lonely, or the sorrowing, or poor,
	If so, 'tis well! angels such deeds aprove.

Can we gaze proudly back upon the year
	And feel we have acquitted well the debt
Of moments lent us for improvement here,
	On which the sun has now forever set?
If we can carry with us on our way
	Assurances we have not lived in vain,
Have garnered in the storehouse of the mind,
	Some ripened sheaves of wisdom's choicest grain,

Then we in confidence and trust may ask,
	That God will crown our labors with success,
While we with diligence, and faith and prayer.
	Walk humbly in our paths of usefulness.
And as we enter on the new-born year,
	And look adown the stream of flowing time,
Bring to our aid experience of the past
	Inspiring us to efforts more sublime.
							- EMILE. 
							E. B. Wells


BE NATURAL.
	At the foundation of all individual educa-
tion there should be indelibly impressed up-
on every mind, two great fundamental prin-
ciples, know thyself and be thyself, which if
properly understood, and correctly carried
out, will prove beneficial in the advance-
ment of true wisdom. We should not ex-
pect to shine by the light reflected from
others, nor will we make better impressions
by imitating those we may admire. We
never appear to so good an advantage, as
when we are really natural, and act our-
selves. We all have gifts from God, which
It is our duty, and should be a pleasure, to
cultivate and improve by all the means
within our reach, and all to which it is pos-
sible to attain.
	We may all think we understand our own
organization, but on close investigation we
are surprised to find we are possessed of
gifts which we never thought were ours, con-
sequently we had never cultivated or im-
proved them.
	There have been frivolous laws of eti-
quette introduced, which were intended to
improve society, and individuals, and many
persons have studied them, thinking to pass
as ladies and gentlemen by assuming
the outward appearance and manners, al-
though destitute of those sterling qualities
which characterize the genuine article; but
these are usually the foolish and ignorant,
for those who are really refined and intelli-
gent by nature, although they may not have
had the advantages of society and educa-
tion, would scorn to imitate others. It
would be well for all to act on natural tal-
ents, and with social feelings, and not de-
pend on studied forms of etiquette, which
are too often the mask of a depraved men-
tal capacity or vitiated taste. Be not like


the parrot trying to imitate the thoughtless
sounds of the passers by. It is said in Holy
writ, "Man know thyself," and I think it
will take a great deal of study and diligent
application, for us to fathom the depths of
our own capacities.
AMELIA.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 4, 1875.


HELP TO CORRECT IT.
	Irregular attendance is perhaps the most
serious obstacle in the way of our success
in the country, and is the direct and legiti-
mate parent of more than one-half the dis-
advantage under which we labor. Its dire-
ful effects are felt in a majority of the
country schools. It is impossible to prop-
erly grade or classify a school where it ex-
ists. It imposes upon the teacher much ex-
tra labor to interest the irregular pupils, and
assist them to keep up with their classes.
It causes an abatement of interest in those
who do attend regularly and robs them of
their rights in the school. It prevents the
adoption and successful prosecution of any
systematic plan of government and instruc-
tion, and demoralizes the affairs of a school
generally.
	Parents and guardians can do very much
to help correct this evil and avoid the con-
sequence of it.—American Journal of Edu-
cation.


TRUE HAPPINESS.
	It is a mistaken idea entertained that hap-
piness is obtained only by wealth. Some
think if they were rich they would have
nothing to do and could lead an idle life.
But there are none who enjoy life less than
those who are idle. Those who are obliged
to work hard all day enjoy their few mo-
ments of rest so much that they think a
life spent in such a way would be delight-
ful. But they would think different if they
were to have a fair trial, for one who is nev-
er busy cannot enjoy rest, because rest im-
plies relief from previous labor. There are
many things that occur in the busy scene of
life to contribute sorrow and trouble to the
rich, as well as to the poor. It is generally
in the homes of the people of moderate
means that happiness is found. The high-
est riches, however, do not consist of
princely incomes. There is greater wealth
than this; it consists of an honest cheerful
heart, a good constitution, a contented dis-
position and clear conscience. Good bones
are better than gold. Tough sinews better
than silver. The man is truly rich and hap-
py who has a noble soul, generous impulses
and moral courage enough to withstand
the temptations that he comes in contact
with in his daily life, and who lives so as to
merit the respect and friendship of those
associated with him. If a desire to speak
well of others was universal the world
would become a comparative paradise. So
many enmities and heart-burnings flow
from this source. Envy, jealousy and the
malignant spirit of evil, when they find
vent by the lips, go forth on their missions
like foul fiends, to mar the happiness and
reputation of others. By endeavoring to
make others happy we secure happiness to
ourselves.		SOPHRONIA SPENCER.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	GEORGE ELLIOT'S new novel entitled
"Daniel Deronda," is spoken of as portray-
ing accurately English life of to-day, and
to deal in the most graceful and entertain-
ing manner with the highest sphere of
modern society.

	A PETITION is being extensively circula-
ted at the capitol, entitled, "A Woman's
Solemn Protest to the members of the forty-
fifth Congress," which opposes the grant-
ing of aid to the Centennial, because the
doors of the palace have been shut in the
faces of American Women, and also because
the negro race has been ignored.—Wo-
man's Journal."

	A TREMENDOUS explosion occurred at
Swaithe Main colliery, near Barnsley, West
Riding, Yorkshire England, on the 6th of
Dec. Over 200 lives were lost. The col-
liery is owned by Messrs. Mitchell & Co.
and is one of the largest in the southern part
of Yorkshire. The works extended for
miles, and were entirely worked by safety
lamps, under the most rigid discipline
and had been considered perfectly safe.

	AN ARTICLE by Anna C. Brackett read
before the Third Woman's Congress at Syr-
acuse, N. Y. Oct. 14, 1875, entitled "Organ-
ization as related to civilization," is in our
opinion worthy the attention of all people
men or women who desire to advance the
true interests of humanity. She certainly
handles the subject in a masterly manner.
This lady says organization carried to its
uttermost perfection, is the type and fruit
of all civilization. That the individual los-
es nothing by yielding his will to the good
of the whole, he is served in turn by evrey
individual of the organization of which he
is a member, Organization owes its pow-
er to the survey of time the utilization of
every energy. This lady writes with such
clearness and power that all may under-
stand, and she deserves the highest com-
mendation from those who are enlisted or
interested in seeking the elevation of wo-
man.


The first finger ring.—An amusing
myth is told of the origin of the finger
ring. When Jove released Prometheus
from the bonds by which he had been con-
fined, he condemned him as a sort of pen-
ance—perhaps somewhat after the fashion
of a modern ticket-of-leave—to wear upon
his finger, as a ring, a link of the iron chain
that had bound him to the Caucasian rock
itself. In this way, so the fable goes, the
custom of the finger ring originated. There
is every reason to believe that this use of
the engraved stone began with the Greeks,
and from them was copied by their servile
imitators, the Romans. It is every way a
convenient and natural one; and our grand-
fathers' custom of wearing their seals at
the fob, as it was called, or hanging from
the side-pocket, was a recurrence to old As-
syrian usages, which long held its ground.


THOSE who live on the failings of their
neighbors will never die of starvation.


114  WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operativd Retrenchment Associations
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms Saturday Dec. 11, 1875, was one of
special interest and importance. After the
reading of minutes of the previous meet-
ing and from the junior societies, President
Mrs. M. I. Horne arose and expressed her
pleasure in the improvement manifested by
the minutes from the different societies of
the young ladies. After making some ex-
cellent remarks to the elder sisters as well
as the younger, she called upon those sis-
ters who had been visiting the different set-
tlements north and south to address the
meeting. Accordingly Mrs. E. Davis arose
and gave a brief account of her visit through
Cache, Malad, Morgan and Summit coun-
ties; said she had passed the time pleasantly
and had been kindly treated everywhere,
and that she had held in all fifty-three meet
ings.  She said that everywhere she had
advised and encouraged the sisters to do
something towards representing Utah at
the Centennial.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney also gave an account
of her trip south, she had visited many set-
tlements in Sanpete and Sevier counties; al-
so Utah, Millard, Beaver, Iron and Wash-
ington counties, had held about forty-five
meetings, and had been well received and
entertained everywhere. A spirit of refor-
mation was among the people, and the de-
sire to awake and commence anew, was the
spirit of the people almost universally.
Coun. Miss E. R. Snow then made a few
spirited remarks in regard to the improve-
ment of the young ladies, and also spoke
earnestly of the interest all should feel to
have the women of Utah well represented
at the centennial. Miss Rebecca Manning
was proposed and accepted as Assistant Sec-
tary of the meeting.
MISS AMY ADAMS,
Secretary.


AN ESSAY WRITTEN FOR AND READ BE-
FORE THE RICHMOND RETRENCHMENT
SOCIETY, FEB. 1st, 1875.

	As this is our chosen subject I will make
an effort to write a few of my thoughts on
the same, though I fear they will be very
inefficiently expressed. Retrenchment, as
it is now introduced, teaches some of the
most exalting and self improving principles
that can be presented for our consideration.
These associations embrace all that is good,
pure and noble, and eschew all that is evil,
vile and degrading. If we heed their teach-
ings we will cultivate all talents implanted
in our natures, exert every faculty to be-
come useful to all by whom we are surround-
ed. Though it is beyond our finite under-
standings to imagine the great blessings to
be gained by availing ourselves of every
opportunity to do good, and to live the lives
of Saints, but are we not old enough, and
is it not time we possessed wisdom sufficient
to enable us to partially comprehend our
mission here on the earth? I am well aware<will,culivate, all="" talents="" implanted="" rjn.piir-="" natures,="" .exert="" every="" facuuy'.jtol-be-="" comp="" useful="" to="" by="" ny.he'nye="" pteutfoijihd-;="" r'9fhi;t="" jlftugh="" it="" is="" beyond,="" our="" ih'ntte'.unilqr-="" utandings="" imagine.thegrbat="" blessings="" ;="" be.,="" gained="" availing,ourselves="" of="" opportunity="" tp="" dojgppdjvnno’uvg'.tlfves!="" jr<of="" saintsbut="" ,ayoryenot="" old="" enough'j'iand="" -is;it="" not="" timewb.j=""><i earth="" lamyf.elljhwprei="" elithat="" in="" tpishighly="" enlightened="" agor,yeri="" %qpd’s="" .o.wn="" purq="" religion.is="" greatly.ignored="" by,="" many="" <vho="" .are,="" too.="" thoughtl'e%:="" (tp="" realize="" inwhat.tbq="" end="" of="" ,sucillllingiigqdrapcd="" will="" akbe,="" ancf="" also="" .thatfjtlipy="" who,="" try="" tpb,’right="" lie.seif.dppying="" are="" often’="" ridjbuled="" ‘="" and="" 5umade="" sport="" o="" accusecbof.makirig,="" false.pre-="" tences,="" other="" things="" wtiicli="" apt="" to="" wound="" thcheart,="" yet="" it="" is="" far="" better="" j’do'bear="" patiently,="" the.-taunts="" of,frail,human-="" ity,?="" than="" do="" .have="" the="" heavenly="" hosts="" gazing="" with="" frowning="" disapproval="" upon="" us;="" and'="" if="" conscience="" i?="" not="" entirely="" hardened="" i$="" i="" smite="" us="" for="" neglect="" duty;="" what="" isdhere<ln-this‘="" turbulent="" worldmoro="" pain-="" i.="" ful="" harder="" flee="" from="" a="" weighed="" jj="" own="" sin="" andremorse?="" all="" thp="" world="" may="" beliovo="" ourtruth,="" the'inward="" monitor="" condemns="" ub,="" -liken="" —iho="" worm="" gnawingnt="" our="" very="" hearts,="" goyhereve="" will,="" is.="" still="" there,="" ever="" witvb'cf;="" save'="" wp1="" diri="" jrib'lo="" ourselves="" '.before="" jsehvsnrihd="" beghfriitew;="" au<="" jlllti4ro="" little="" has="" been="" &id="" o'f'dress="" 'tllere,="" were'="" ether’="" inure,="" nd.pded,="" claimed="" bur'="" first="" attention;1="" bbtrench="" folly="" ignorance.="" were="" wo="" db="" this="" wlivrb="" would="" limits="" be?="" knowledge="" boundless,="" we="" to;="" study="" life-="" time="" grphtesfc="" zeal,="" could="" :="" sit="" dowri="" say,'11="" ‘have="" 1="" earnbd="" am="" perfect.”="" these="" societies="" aie="" thight'to="" brigagedii1="" theusefril="" risavelf="" as="" theelegant="" pursuits="" df!life.="" thiwwo="" )="" must="" dtecontiriud-bvery="" hablb-which':<lofes="" 'hbt="" tfehd="" tb'hovate="" thmirid;'="" h6t="" avofdirig="" 'simlliity="" ’="" mdn'ndr;="" whieli="" often="" i’so="" charming.="" <kndw="" that="" every="" mb-="" 'merit°is="" biken="" f="" td="" bi-riaraent="" the--'person,="" there="" no="" tiriie’tb'spend="" lri="" studylng="">
that in this highly enlightened age even
God's own pure religion is greatly ignored
by many who are too thoughtless to realize
what the end of such willing ignorance will
be, and also that they who try to do right
and be self-denying are often ridiculed and
made sport of, accused of making false pre-
tences, and many other things which are
apt to wound the heart, yet it is far better
to bear patiently the taunts of frail human-
ity than to have the heavenly hosts gazing
with frowning disapproval upon us; and if
the conscience is not entirely hardened it
will smite us for neglect of duty; and what
is there in this turbulent world more pain-
ful and harder to flee from than a conscience
weighed down with sin and remorse? All
the world may believe in our truth, yet if
the inward monitor condemns us, it is like
the worm gnawing at our very hearts, and 
go where we will it is still there, and ever
will be, save we humble ourselves before
Heaven and begin anew.
	Hitherto very little has been said of dress
as there were other things more needed,
and claimed our first attention. Retrench
from folly and ignorance. Were we to do this
where would the limits be? Knowledge is
boundless, and if we were to study a life-
time with the greatest of zeal, we could not
sit down and say, "I have learned all and
am perfect." In these societies we are
taught to engage in the useful as well as
the elegant pursuits of life. To do this we
must discontinue every habit which does
not tend to elevate the mind; not avoiding
simplicity of manner, which is often so
charming. We all know that if every mo-
ment is taken to ornament the person,
there is no time to spend in studying useful
books or learning from observation; besides
it injures the health, enfeebles the mind, to
live in such constant excitement of dress
and fashion. Happiness and contentment
are banished, and in their stead dwell envy
and covetousness. This is why there is sin
in excessive love of dress. It destroys all
unity, all peaceful relations that should ex-
ist between man and man. The aristocracy
scorn the middle classes, and they in turn,
while striving to become equal, are willing
to crush those of inferior fortunes. Does
the votary of vashion think of going out for 
pure enjoyment? Far from it; every nerve
is exerted to try and surpass all who may
be seen, and the excitement becomes so in-
tense, that desparate means are often re-
sorted to. Many a good man, I am satis-
fied, has gone to a premature grave, or been
driven to end his own life, by the unlimited
extravagance of his wife, or daughters.
Yet men are far from being blameless, and
if they had shown more wisdom in choosing
their lady associates, and not been partial
to the butterflies of the day, women would
have been less fond of dress. They have
proved to a great extent that they have no
taste for the real and true-hearted woman
though they might if choosing a life part-
ner, but for the shorter and less important
periods of time, the enjoyment of which is
as pleasant to woman as to man, they will
select the gaily dressed belle, the studied
coquette, no matter whether she possesses
a heart or not if she is stylish, elegantly
attired, and will  only smile, her cold, soul-
less smile, then man thinks himself tri-
umphant. He will not deign to notice the
neatly dressed and unpresuming maiden,
but after  has grown weary of, or been
rejected by the fair siren, he will humbly
sue for the hand of one he deemed unfit to
be his companion in the gay scenes of sin-
gle life. Is it any wonder then, that wo-
man, with all her frailties, seeks to make
herself suited to the exquiste though ex-
travagant ideas of the sterner sex. Though
there are some women, I am proud to say,
who will show them that they must prize
true worth; not outward display. I know
there are also many noble and good men,
but I am tired of hearing some rave of our
extravagance.
				MARY STUART.


CHANCE happens to all, but to turn chance
to account is the gift of few.


WRITTEN FOR AND READ BEFORE THE 
FIRST WARD RETRNCHMENT ASSOCIATION.
	My dear young sisters I feel it my duty
to say a few words to you to encourage you
in the good work in which you are engaged.
Do you know you are some of the noblest
spirits that have been kept back till these
LAST DAYS so that you might come through
the holy priesthood of God and pure and
holy parents. My dear young sisters you
have come upon the earth at this time to
do a great and mighty work, to help build
up the church and kingdom of God; you
have not only to do all the good you can to
each other, here in your homes and among
your companions, but if you have friends
and relations in the country from which you
came, you must, when writing to them, tell
them of the goodness of God to you, and
what you know about your religion; make
them feel good and you may be the means
of bringing them into the church if not al-
ready in; and then there are a great many
that have left this sphere of action and
gone behind the veil without having the
privilege of embracing the everlasting gos
pel that you have embraced, there is a
work to be done for them, that they cannot
do for themselves; therefore it is for you to
do it for them, and dear sisters pray to the
Lord to give you His holy spirit at all times,
so that you may be able to do all that is re-
quired of you, for where there is much giv-
en there is also much required. Therefore
my sisters be kind and obliging to your
parents, brothers, sisters and companions,
and all you have anything to do with: be
honest and upright in all your dealings with
each other; never tell an untruth to hide a
fault; remember God sees and hears all you
do and say. When you leave your beds in
the morning, never commence your work
without praying for the spirit of God to lead
and guide you through the day, and if you
do this every day, you will have strength
to accomplish all that is required of you.
At the close of each day examine yourselves
and see wherein you could have done bet-
ter; and if you see anything that you have
done wrong do not do the same again; by
doing this you will save yourselves day by
day; prepare yourselves to live, and by so
doing, you will prepare yourselves to die;
you do not know the day or the hour you
may be called to lay your bodies down in
the grave; therefore live so that when call-
ed you may be ready and it may be said of
you "well done good and faithful servant,
enter into the joy of your Lord". My dear
young sisters I pray this may be your happy
lot, in the name of Jesus Christ, your Re-
deemer, Amen.
MATILDA EMILY WAGSTAFF.


GAYETY.—There are two kinds of gay-
ety; the one arises from want of heart, be-
ing touched by no pity, sympathizing with
no pain, even of its own causing; it shines
and glitters like a frostbound river in the
gleaming sun. The other springs from ex-
cess of heart—that is, from a heart over-
flowing with kindness toward all men, and
all things; and suffering under no superadd-
ed grief, it is light from the happiness which
it causes, from the happiness which it sees.
This may be compared to the same river,
sparkling and smiling under the sun of
summer, and runing on to give fertility and
increase to all within, and even to many
beyond, its reach.


PRIDE seems to be quite equally distribu-
ted; the man who owns the carriage, and
the man who drives it, seem to have it just
alike.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			115


For the EXPONENT.
ON BURNING SOME OLD AND
CHOICE LETTERS.
The fire burns! the funeral pyre is raised,
I take these letters, which my soul has praised—
Tablets of sentiments both good and rare.
Emblems of friendship that two hearts did share.
A long tried friendship which no test could shake,
Absence of years, this bond could never break;
And more than all, the difference of creed,
Our compact was to differ—'twas agreed—
The heart that did these letters all decree,
The hand that made them palpable to me
Were those I found in all things true and good,
And proved through years, my soul's accepted food;
They were indeed a link to bind the past,
A chain, whose clasp they are to hold it fast!
Yes they have held [-]t with increasing charm,
Which e'en the scorn of creed could not disarm.
Yea Verily, the key has not been found
That could unlock the cypher it has bound.
But now this ordeal is my own decree,
For never more the writer shall I see!
But still their essence will remain to be
A perfumed censer ever sway'd by me
Through coming years I shall inhale it still,
A perfume ever summoned by my will.
Thought will be busy when the form is gone
Immortalized by memory alone.
Yet do I tremble! my unwilling hand
Almost rejects the ordeal I command
'Tis right–those little words should form for me
A code—eternal as the sun I see;
Upon the embers, by my hand they lie,
Adieu loved letters! yes—good-bye, good bye,
Passing away into some other form,
In some sweet future will they not be born
Again for me? to whom they did belong
And sing to me again their own sweet song?
Why should I be sceptical? for in God's rest
Naught will be wanting that will make us blest.
Then no more let me languish, no more sigh,
Adieu loved letters! Yes—good bye—good bye.
Salt Lake City.
HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
GOOD TASTE.
	Taste is that power of the mind which
enables us to discern beauty, excellence, and
fitness, and to take pleasure in them. There
are few who would willingly admit them-
selves to be deficient in this respect, and
many would prefer to be accused of a dere-
liction in duty than a violation in dress, man-
ners, or conduct of the principles of good
taste. Yet few take the trouble of study-
ing out these principles, and of making
themselves familiar with the grounds upon
which they rest. Some indeed contend that
the very great variety of taste that exists in
the world, proves that there is no standard
of true beauty, and no principles, therefore,
by which we may designate taste as good
or bad. But such an argument would ap-
ply with equal force to a standard of truth
or right. Prejudice will often foster belief
in absurdities, and the conscience may be
so warped as to mistake right for wrong;
but no one would from this attempt to prove
that there is no standard by which to judge
of the character of action.
	In every exercise of taste the judgment
is brought into operation, and decides as to
the existence of beauty or excellence, har-
mony or fitness. As therefore the judg-
ment is variously developed in different
persons, so also will be the taste, and the
standard of the one will include that of the
other.
	The appreciation of beauty, harmony, or
fitness, implies two things: a belief in some
excellence or perfection in the object, and a
sense of pleasure. If the excellence that
we think we perceive is really there, the
feeling of pleasure is justifiable, and our
taste is correct. If our judgment be erro-
neous, and the excellence fancied, not real,
then our taste is at fault. The beauties of
nature which all admire, are not only real,

[Column 2]
but are found to open up increasing delight,
as the mind by culture is better able to ap-
preciate them. So the finest works of art
give pleasure proportioned to the ability of
the mind to fasten upon the elements of
beauty they contain. Even where objects
appear beautiful at first sight, and we can-
not define the reason, though we enjoy the
emotion, we yet have cause to believe that
it is rather owing to our want of discern-
ment than to any deficiency of real beauty
in the objects themselves. It frequently
happens that the instinctive feeling of
beauty, at first experienced without a rea-
son, is followed in the reflective mind by a
discovery of some excellence before unno-
ticed. Thus a perfectly well-bred person
always produces pleasurable emotions in
those whom he meets. Without analyzing
or reasoning, they feel their taste gratified,
and their interest enlisted. But subsequent
reflection convinces them that the source
of their pleasure consists in the outwaad
expression of amiable qualities of mind.
	Good taste in dress, in like manner, is the
result and the outward sign of a good judg-
ment in regard to comfort, convenience,
consistency of expense, harmony of colors,
and general suitability. It was once said of
a lady, by one who was a good judge in such
matters, that she was attired in such perfect
taste that he could not remember anything
she had on. The effect of the whole cos-
tume would have been rendered less agree-
able, if any of its parts had been striking
or prominent. Similar principles apply to
good taste in other directions. As polite-
ness is the outward sign of amiability, so
good taste is the outward sign of a correct
and cultivated judgment. In whatever is
made for an end, the adaptation of all its
parts to that end, is a chief element of
beauty and good taste, and whatever de-
feats that end in any measure is in so far a
deformity. For example, in furnishing a
dwelling, the chief end is supposed to be
the comfort and welfare of the occupants.
But when we see two-thirds of the whole
expense laid out in the costly and luxurious
furniture and decorations of the drawing-
room, while that part of the house where
the family chiefly resides presents a pinched
and mean appearance, we may safely assert
that the end is frustrated, the judgment
that guided the management was defective,
and the principles of good taste violated.
	Whoever desires, then, to possess and to
exhibit, in dress, manners, conversation and
actions, a thoroughly good taste, will do
well to study its principles, to cultivate the
judgment, and to adapt means carefully and
wisely to the ends in view. Good taste is
not, as some suppose, a mere surface matter;
its principles, as we have seen, lie deep
down in the foundation of things; and those
who would rejoice in its sweet fruits and
beauteous flowers, must not content them-
selves with merely watering the leaves,
but must dig deep down to the roots, and
give them due sustenance.
SELECTED.


FLORAL HINTS.

	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, DEC. 13, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	To the thousand household cares add
those of a garden of many flowers and one
finds a plenty of employment "from rosy
morn till dewy eve"—at the approach of
frost our verbenas, petunias, china pinks,
carnations and many others were removed to
the house for winter blooming, and the ten-
der acacias and other trees and shrubs
wrapped and tied up for protection from


frost, which has finally come and destroyed
the tender plants and flowers—yet sparing
us awhile longer the rosy chrysanthemums.
petunias, marigolds, malveas, scabious, mig-
nonette, and some others are still in bloom
outdoors.
	"The Glory of Rosamine" is an evergreen
here and one of the most magnificent of
roses, the bush is large and tall and almost
a runner with large half-double dark velvety
leaved blossoms in large clusters—and ever
blooming. I think it will stand the winter
at Salt Lake. The Lamarque, is one of the
finest of white tree roses—ever-blooming and
a fast growing runner, and delightfully fra-
grant, which with the "John Hopper" a
dark pink and profuse bloomer, seem per-
fectly hardy here, and great favorites with
everyone. When rose bushes become un-
healthy and leaves change to white, and
cease growing, use a compound of fine char-
coal soot from the stove pipe and fine rotted
manure, and carefully fork it in about the
roots of the bushes. There is a plant, na-
tive here the Daura, most magnificent in
bloom. In August, I saw one of these plants
that occupied a circular space of eight feet;
I counted 75 blossoms in bloom at the time.
White fragrant chalice-shaped, about six in-
ches long and five inches across the outer
face of the flower. I never saw a more
grand looking plant and would recommend
it to every florist to cultivate one plant at
least.
	I must not omit to tell you that Willie
has had full access to the flower garden all
the season, he loves and admires the flow-
ers and goes around often and smells of
them but has been taught to respect them
and so far, 'tho' he wears his first breeches,'
has not made a breach of trust or injured
either flowers or plants. Even small child-
ren may be taught to love and respect the
beautiful flowers, and should be allowed to
go among them, and they will grow up re-
fined and loving under the genial loveli-
ness of the fairest of created things.
FLORA.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	JULIUS Caesar, when he founded the first
public library in Rome, with the books of
which he had plundered the conquered
provinces—for those renowned robbers, the
Romans, made books as well as pictures and
statues the object of pillage—appointed
Varro as his librarian, the most learned
man of his time, whom Dante calls the third
great light of Rome, reckoning him in the
illustrious list after Virgil and Cicero—
Varro, a republican, a follower of Pompey,
and an honest man, who flattered nobody,
not even the Dictator. Varro also assisted
Augustus with his advice when he founded
two public libraries in the metropolis of his
empire.

	LOVE-LETTERS.—Love-letters! There are
women whom the world call single who are
as truly wedded to a tear-stained package
as if it really were the being that it repre-
sents to them—who lived in the old sweet
time these missives once belonged to, and
who will keep their hearts apart from the
dull reality that makes up their present
world. Years may have passed, and noth-
ing may have remained the same, save the
dear dream that never knew reality; yet,
held in their love life by their fragile pa-
per bond, they dwell in that fair unsubtan-
tial spring time, while antumn fades, and
winter cold reigns abroad in all the world.


116				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

L. GREEN RICHARDS, } Editors
EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one 
[---], $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY. JAN. 1, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

	ANOTHER YEAR.

	Of all the feats that time and change have
wrought during the year of 1875, great disap-
pointments are evidently sustained in some
localities that mightier changes have not taken
place.
	Columbia's Centennial year has dawned, and
like the rest of the world the nation still
moves. But neither the Republican nor the
Democratic party has succeeded in altogether
eclipsing the other. The women have neither
gained their cause nor been silenced. Indian
affairs are still in a comparatively unsettled
condition; and the Mormon problem is not yet
solved.
	No, notwithstanding the ceaseless efforts and
untiring zeal of the Mormon-haters to bring
about their purposes in regard to the latter
question, Polygamy, the "flagrant crime,"
"unnatural vice," as the chief executive of the
nation has called it, has not been "banished
from the land," as he would have it! A worse
calamity upon the nation, however, is, that
they still close their eyes and harden their
hearts against justice and humanity in their
untoward persecutions of a peaceful and much
injured people.
	Why men considering themselves sane and
reasonable should wish and seek for thousands
of honest, virtue-loving women in Utah to be
deprived of good, honorable husbands, and
cast upon the world like other tens of thou-
sands elsewhere, without lawful protectors—
would seem a mystery did we not realize that
such desires and designs are the results of
"blind unbelief" which is "sure to err." Even
after the hand of God (to them, the persecutors
of the Saints. His unseen hand) has been so
repeatedly made manifest in the deliverance of
His servants from the power of their enemies,
the fruitless attempts of the adversary to over-
throw the work of the Lord in the latter days
are unabated.
	But what will the calumny, special law mak-
ing or law breaking of short-sighted officials
amount to, if the Saints will but prove faithful
to the trust reposed in them? The same God
lives and reigns to-day, by whose power prison
doors were opened and prison walls fell in the
deliverance of His apostles anciently. Surely
He is able to do as great things for His faithful
followers now as He has done formerly, should
necessity demand it. It is well worth the
while of every Latter-day Saint, old and young,
to live near the Lord, to prove a friend to Him
and to His cause, that He may justly offer in
return that assistance which will surely be
needed when difficulties arise. We see to-day
how the opening of the New Year finds us,
but who shall tell what its close may bring?

[COLUMN 2]
	If Congress would establish a law ab ishing
profanity, drunkenness, the social evil in all
its forms, and foeticide, that would be doing
something worth their hire. Then, having
cured the land of its actual curses, they might
turn to Utah to investigate affairs with some
degree of reason. Then, if they could suggest
any method superior to polygamy, by which
every worthy woman might become the lawful
wife of a worthy man, bring forth and rear her
children in honor and purity, calling them by
their father's name—a method by which our
cities might be kept clear of outcasts and un-
fortunates, as they now are, there would be
some justice and consistency in their forebidding
the practice of plural marriage.
	Until they do this, it would seem but just if
every man who would by force of law and au-
thority compel these women to live singly,
deprived of the dearest and sweetest ties of
natural affection, were doomed to a like fate—
a life of celibacy. But the Lord is able to deal
with them as seemeth best in His own sight,
without suggestions on our part. And the wo-
men of the Latter-day Saints may be content
to wait His time, while with united faith,
prayers and works they strengthen the hearts
and hands of the noble men of God, who prove
themselves worthy each of many faithful
wives.
	If as great things have not been accomplished
in the year just past as many could desire to
have seen, be it remembered that the old year
never dies until the new one is prepared to step
forward and fill the vacancy. And though the
old year has been very good, there is always a
possibility of improving; may the year now
young prove one of boundless blessings to those
who desire good for all.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	ON CHRISTMAS Day at the theatre, for a mati-
nee, the favorite fancy play, "Cherry and Fair
Star," was presented to a house crowded almost
exclusively with Juveniles, and again in the
evening to a tolerably good-sized audience.
Monday and Tuesday evenings the same play
was repeated.
	WE OFTEN receive articles for publication
with fictitious names attached, without the
writer's real signature; we have several times
expressed ourselves on this subject, plainly
stating that all articles of this kind must be
accompanied with the real name of the writer.
We have now several articles laid over for this
reason. Several items are also crowded out of
this issue for want of space.
	ON SUNDAY evening, Dec. 26, 1875, the Han-
del and Hadyn Society of this city gave an
entertainment at the Theatre of the Oratorio of
the Messiah. The house was tolerably well
filled, and, considering most of the singers
were amateurs, it was decidedly a success.
	In consequence of the indisposition of Mrs.
E. C. Haydon, one of the most talented singers,
the rendering was not complete, as all her solos
had to be omitted; but Mrs. Careless' rendering
of her solos was exquisitely perfect.
	A MEETING of the Presidents, Committee,
etc., for the representation of Utah at the Na-
tional Centennial, was held at the office of
Capt. H. C. Goodspeed, Tuesday, Dec. 28, at
eleven a. m. In consequence of some misun-
derstanding in regard to notice of the time of
meeting being given, only a few of the com-
mittee were present; of the gentlemen Hon.
Wm. Jennings, H. C. Goodspeed and Mr. Pres-
cott. Some definite conclusions in regard to
time at which all articles must be in readiness
were arranged, and the flag to represent the


Territory was decided upon. Each state or ter-
ritory will have its own flag representing its
respective coat of arms. Utah will be repre-
sented by the beehive. Capt. Goodspeed very
kindly proffered the ladies the use of his office
to hold their separate meetings, whenever they
should have business to transact. Some sug-
gestions were made in regard to raising funds
to defray the necessary expenditure, but no
positive decision arrived at. Capt. Goodspeed
suggested the idea of a Ladies' Tea-party as
having been very practicable in some localities.


CIRCULAR.
TO THE RELIEF SOCIETIES, RETRENCHMENT
ASSOCIATIONS, AND THE WOMEN OF 
UTAH GENERALLY.
	We, the undersigned, members of the Wo-
men's Centennial Executive Committee for
Utah, respectfully solicit your active and ener-
getic co-operation in preparing for the ap-
proaching National Centennial, by furnishing
creditable specimens of all useful and orna-
mental Home Industries of women's work
from a necktie artificial flower, and the most
delicate embroidery, to a carpet; also natural
curiosities of our own collecting; and, as soon
as practicable, have them sent either to the
President of the Lion House, or the Treasurer,
opposite the Lion House, and adjoining the
Historian's office, Salt Lake City.
	Our specimens must be forwarded to Phila-
delphia by the first of March, which affords us
very little time, but with energy, promptitude
and united effort, much can be speedily accom-
plished.
	To expedite the work, we suggest that Com-
mittees be appointed forthwith in each Ward
of our cities, and in each Settlement in the
Territory, whose business shall be to collect
specimens all ready made—to search out wo-
men of artistic skill, and stimulate them to as-
sist; and where willing talent and ability are
found, with insufficient means to apply them,
we recommend that the necessary material be
provided, either by donation or otherwise, and
the latent will brought into exercise for the ob-
ject in view.
	Every article furnished must be distinctly
labeled with the name and place of residence of
its proprietor; and, inasmuch as persons from
other countries might wish to purchase Utah's
specimens, those articles which the owners are
willing to dispose of, should have the prices
plainly specified; all others are to be returned,
after the close of the exhibition.
MISS ELIZA R. SNOW, President.
MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary,
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, Treasurer.
COMMITTEE.
DR. MARY H. BARKER,
MRS. FLLEN G. HAYDON.
PRISCILLA M. STAINES,
MARY I. HORNE,
BYRON GROO.
H. C. GOODSPEED,
ELIZABETH DAVIS.
ELIZABETH HOWARD,
ZINA D. YOUNG,
SARAH M. KIMBALL.


To produce good conversation, earnest
thought and general knowledge is requisite,
and a thoroughly excellent conversational-
ist may be considered a wise man or woman.
Cultivate the gift, then, if you possess but
its germ, since nothing can contribute more
highly to the happiness of friends at home
or abroad.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A CHRISTMAS ROMANCE.
	We will commence this romance by intro-
ducing the heroine—an agreeable young lady
of marriageable age, say twenty, plainly and
neatly clad, who devoted a portion of her time
serving God, by trying to instruct, happify and
better the condition of God's children. She
was one of the earnest and faithful members of
a Retrenchment Society, never danced after
twelve o'clock, wore neither stays nor high
heels, but expanded her lungs with the fresh air,
and her step was elastic and free. Her perfect
and healthful form, intelligent countenance
and modest behavior attracted the special at-
tention of a young prince, who bore the name
of Joseph. He was of the royal lineage of the
house of David, and heir to the blessings,  the
wealth, and the power of the Eternal Priest-
hood. He honored his parentage, and culti-
vated nobility in his nature, and set a worthy
example for "fast young men." He did not
squeeze Mary's hand and say soft things to her,
and tell her that she was handsome and so es-
sential to his happiness; but he went, like a
true prince as he was, to his father and mother,
and told them that there was a precious girl in
their city, Nazareth, for whom he entertained
great respect, and he felt that there was a seed
of love planted in his heart, that only required
their approbation and that of all parties con-
cerned, to take root and sprout and grow until
it encircled Miriam (that was the pet name by
which he chose to call her). The father and
mother smiled upon their noble son and sealed
the smile with their blessing. Then they vis-
ited Mary's family, and asked her parents if it
would be agreeable to them to have Joseph
visit there and try to win their daughter's love.
They consented, and said  they would exchange
gifts as a token of betrothal; such engagements,
or betrothals, were not usually consummated
by marriage under twelve months, but were
considered very sacred.
	While the thread of the life of these lovers
is running smoothly a higher Court has taken
cognizance of the condition, and passed judg-
ment in the case. Belonging to this court is a
popular messenger, a resurrected nobleman,
named Michael. He is delegated by the Su-
preme head of this August Assembly, to bear
the glad tidings of its decision to Mary, and
coming into her presence, he addresses her in
this respectful manner:
	"Hail! noble lady! The Lord, King of kings,
is with thee, and thou art more favored and
blessed than any other woman."
	Mary pondered upon these strange words.
She knew that her father's family—the family
of Judah—was promised the honor of rearing
a Son of God, Who would yield his life blood a
sacrifice, acceptable to remove what we term
the evil consequences of the sentence of death,
which was passed upon Adam and Eve and
their posterity in the Morning of Creation.
While she thus pondered a feeling of astonish-
ment and fear caused her to tremble, when
Michael spoke kindly to her, telling her that
she had no cause to fear; God had decreed that
hers should be the honor of bearing the child
Jesus, who should sit upon the throne of David,
and to whose kingdom there should be no end.
	Mary, like a true woman, accepted the con-
dition, and braved the perils.
	When Joseph was informed of the interview
that his affianced bride had received he became
jealous, and considered whether he would for-
sake Mary, for he said the story about Michael
must be all a fabrication; he was the affianced
husband, and ought to be the head of the
woman, and he did not relish being passed by
in any such a way; so he mentally told himself
that he would do no wrong in the matter, but
quietly and silently withdraw the love and
protection that, from the depths of his warm
heart, he had taught her to respect and rely on.
	She soon began to feel the chill of desolation,
and her troubled spirit refused to rest in sleep
until Joseph should again fully confide in her.
To his nature love was less essential than to
hers, so he with apparent indifference slept
while Mary quietly and silently prayed for a
return of the warmth of Joseph's love, and as
she prayed an angel disturbed Joseph's slum-
bers, and told him that his rights had not been in
the least, infringed upon, and that, for the in-
tegrity of his manly heart, he was entitled to
this explanation. Now he was told that he
must return to Mary, beg a thousand pardons,
and love and cherish her as he ought, and the
watch-care of the Most High would be over
them, to guide their footsteps until the wise
men of the East should do reverence to their
reputed son, the Son of God, the real King of
Israel.
	Reuma.


ABOUT FASHION.
	A young lady's thoughts and reflections on
hearing one of our leading elders express his
ideas on the fashions and follies of women.
	I wish to express my ideas about the vain and
foolish fashions our elders talk so much about.
I dare not deny that we, women of Utah, who
ought to know better, do allow ourselves to be
carried away by the follies and foolish fash-
ions of the outside world, so as to make our-
selves ridiculous, but must we shoulder all the
blame?
	Do not our elders in Israel, who are the
stronger vessels, follow such fashions? For in-
stance, what about their elaborate gold watches
and chains, and their fine gold toothpicks, and
their fancy shirt studs and dainty walking
sticks, etc.; what are these but fashions? Let
us ask ourselves the question, if we are really
the people of God as we claim to be, why not,
men and women with one accord wear our
homemade, and save the means we spend for
all these things, to bring to Zion the poor and
honest in heart of our people in foreign lands,
and use it to build temples, etc. I cannot help
but think when I see our leading elders get up
and talk about the extravagance of women,
that in one sense of the word we are no more
extravagant than they are; they do not, for a
moment, realize that all those little fancy nick-
nacks that have been mentioned, cost money.
Oh no, they think because a woman puts twelve
or more yards in her dress that she is extrava-
gant, but allow me to say that the price of one
suit of clothes for a man, would dress this Utah
girl (only think of it) for one year. We as a
people are supposed to wear homemade, yet
the lords of creation must have at least one
suit of broadcloth, at a cost of $75 or more.
Now reflect on these ideas, and decide for your-
selves which is the most extravagant.
Respectfully,
A UTAH GIRL.
Pine Canyon. Dec. 20th, 1875.


ABOUT DANCING.
	In a conversation in the President's office,
Dec. 4th, 1875, with Bishops Layton and
Smith, on the subject of dancing, President
Young said that it was his mind that dan-
ces should commence from one to two in
the afternoon, and dismiss from 9 to 10.
That was the plan he had adopted in this
city in the early days of the Territory, and


which he wished to see adopted by the
bishops in the settlements. He had led out
in this way himself from the commence-
ment of the settlement of the Territory, and
set the example in his own practice, and his
mind was still unchanged. Dancing was no
part of our religion, but when we attended
to it for our amusement, we did it in the
name of the Lord, just as we should attend
to any other business.
	With regard to round dances, he was op-
posed to them, from beginning to end, from
top to bottom. Round dances were first com-
menced in and still continue brothel-house
dances.
			George Reynolds.
				(Clerk to Prest. Young.)
I endorse the above statement.
(Signed)			Brigham Young.
Deseret News.


GRANTSVILLE, T. G.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	Recently I heard a Mother raving and be-
moaning because some of her children had
been chastised for some bad conduct, and
they, the children richly deserved the pun-
ishment they recived and more, but her un-
reasoning fondness made her unjust; she did
not think her children could do wrong, she
imagined the whole world was in league
against them especially. Was this a wise
course to purse (?)  Those children believ-
ed themselves to be martyrs pitied them-
selves and the chastisement did no good,
instead, it created a spirit of revenge in 
their young bosoms: seeds sown that will
surely bring forth bitter fruit.
	Unless their Heavenly Father takes bet-
ter care of them than their foolish mother
it will not take a prophet to foretell their
future. It is hard, very hard for a mother
to see her children punished, but it is some-
times an imperative duty to do so for those
children's welfare here and hereafter; it is
weak, almost imbecile for a mother to re-
fuse to believe her children can ever do
wrong. Thousands on thousands of crimi-
nals have cursed their mothers foolish fond-
ness, and declared to this cause alone they
owed their downfall. A wise mother will
not screen her offending offspring although
it will make her poor heart bleed, and cause
her pillow to be wet with the bitterest tears
a mother can shed.
	Oh! children learn that when you do
wrong the punishment falls heaviest on
your mother's heart.
	Would it could be written in letters of
fire to burn into the hearts of children this
one sentence "Children obey you parents in
the Lord." How much sorrow it would
save, how many homes it would shield
from desolation, how many mothers would
be spared to a ripe old age that have gone
down to their graves in sorrow and shame
through the faults of their children.
	Dear children believe this truth "As you
sow so shall you reap, If you sow the wind
you will reap the whirlwind."
MARY.


A CLEVER old lady, just arrived from the
country, entered the refreshment-room at
a railroad station the other day, and said
she had left her parasol on the seat. A
general search commenced, and lasted for
some time. Finally one of the waiters
asked the old dame when she left it, to
which she answered, on counting on her fin-
gers, "Well it was three years ago last 4th
of August." There was a general roar,
much to the astonishment of the old lady,
who went away with a very puzzled look
upon her countenance.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

	LOVE AND LADIES' SOCIETY.

		By George Anderson.

	Mr. President, and Ladies and Gentle-
men of the 20th Ward Institute:—I have
chosen for my theme, "Love, and Ladies'
Society." I will quote the words of God,
as recorded in the 2nd capter of Genesis,
18th verse: "And the Lord God said, it is
not good that man should be alone; I will
make him an help meet for him." Histo-
ry, both sacred and profane, bears ample
testimony that this grand truth has been
realized and understood by the eminent
men of race, from the days of Father
Adam to the present. Adam chose rather
to leave Paradise, than be deprived of the
society of his beloved spouse. And he said
that a man should leave father and mother
and cleave to his wife. Seth, Enoch, Me-
thusaleh, Lameck, Noah, Melchisedek, Abra-
ham, Jacob, Moses, Gideon, Samson, Boaz,
David, Solomon, and many others, whose
names are handed down to posterity in the
Old Testament, all demonstrated, by their
course and conduct, that they realized and
understood that it is not good that man
should be alone. It is evident that women
loved to associate with our Lord and Sa-
viour Jesus Christ, and that He reciprocated
their love, even after His resurrection. The
apostle Peter was married, and it is gener-
ally conceded that his brethren of the
twelve were also married men. If the apos-
tle Paul was not married, he evidently be-
lieved in this sacred ordinance, and con-
sidered that he had a right to lead about a
sister, or a wife, "as well as other apostles,
and as the brethren of the Lord, and Ce-
phas." (1 Cor., 9th chap., 5th verse.) Paul
proclaimed marriage to be "honorable in
all." (Heb., XIII. iv.) And forbidding to
marry, he denounced as one of the "doc-
trines of devils." (1st Tim. IV.) The history
given in the Book of Mormon, of Lehi,
Nephi, Amulek, Mormon, Moroni, and other
eminent men, testifies that they also were
lovers of ladies' society. If we turn to the
pages of what is called profane history, we
find the same characteristics manifested by
the world's eminent men. As illustrations,
we might mention Plato, Cicero, Alexander,
Mahomet, Ceasar, Charlemange, Bacon,
Napoleon, Nelson, Goethe, Scott, Byron,
Burns, Augustus, Buckingham, Palmerston,
Webster, and hosts of others, whose names
I have not space to mention. I do not claim
that the conduct of all these men whom I
have mentioned was in all respects exem-
plary in their associations with the daugh-
ters of Eve, but I do claim that they
demonstrated by their acts, they were be-
lievers in the doctrine, that it is not good
that man should be alone. As eminent be-
lievers in this grand truth in our own day,
we might make honorable mention of Jo-
seph, Parley, Willard, Jedediah, Heber,
Brigham, Daniel, and hundreds of other
prominent men in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	True, the Papal Church and various other
classes, or sects, including many of both
sexes, have, during the various epochs of
the world's history, as well as in our
own time, attempted to extirpate from
their natures this heaven implanted desire;
but the results of such unnatural efforts
never have been, and never will be, desir-
able to any sensible, right-feeling man or
woman, who understands things as they are.
What is there about the ascetic, or the mis-
anthrope to be desired? and who would
wish to be sexually apathetic? I have been
led to reflect on this and kindred subjects,

[COLUMN 2]

in consequence of being informed that quite
a number of the girls and young ladies of
our community, are attending a certain
school in this city, which is under the aus-
pices and influence of a so-called church,
that has for centuries promulgated this un-
scriptural and unnatural dogma, as one of
its prominent doctrines; and also, because
I have often known of some of the young
ladies of our city having gone home in the
dark, from meetings and other public gath-
erings, unattended by even a single male
friend; and I have felt chagrined to think
that some of our young men were appar-
ently so lacking in gallantry, and I have
thought that there must be something wrong
somewhere; for there is a sexual magnet-
ism, or some kind of an influence, which
attends every good, virtuous, honorable man
to feel blessed in her society. She inspires
his soul with noble aspirations, draws out
his devotional feelings, and brings him
nearer to his God.
	The social condition of society, in portions
of the so-called civilized world, to-day, is
such as to render it unsafe for a lady to
walk abroad, unless attended by a male
protector. In fact, she is not safe if left
without a protector, even in her own house.
And to-day this deplorable condition of
things exists, to some extent in this Terri-
tory. No elder, or male member of this
church, should ever make attempt to take any
unlawful or improper liberties with any of
the daughters of Eve. He should be a pro-
tector of female chastity and honor, at all
times, upon all occasions, and under all cir-
cumstances. He might meet a lady, either
by day or by night, on the highway or in
the byway, in the field or in the forest, and
she should find in him nothing but a pro-
tector and friend. She might even visit
him, under similar circumstances to those
under which the faithful Ruth visited the
honorable Boaz, and he would only treat
her in a similar manner. For temptation
is the only test of virtue.
	The importance of the duty of procre-
ation has been generally recognized, par-
tially understood, and has been encouraged
in various ways, from the time that the
Lord said, "Be fruitful and multiply," up
to the present. The present age may be
a partial exception to this rule, especially in
our own nation. In ancient Sparta, the
special duty of women was to produce
strong, healthy children for the State. It is
said that it used to be the custom in China,
for a public place, all unmarried men who
were over thirty years of age, and all unmar-
ried women who were over twenty, and have
them publicly punished. Similar customs
have prevailed among other nations.
	I allude to these customs merely as histo-
rical facts, and not as examples in all re-
spects worthy of imitation.
	Tradition and history, both sacred and
profane, point to polygamy as the oldest
form of marital associations. Polygamy
has been practiced in every age and in every
clime. Four-fifths of our race have al-
ways been polygamists. Mahomet, at his
death, left nine widows; and his followers
are said to number one hundred and forty
millions. I will here state that, if I was
an infidel and an atheist, that my knowl-
edge of human nature as it is, would still
lead me, as a citizen of the world, to favor
the toleration of polygamy.
	The feeling, or principle, which should
influence all the associations of the sexes,
should invariably be that Heaven-born at-
tribute—Love. Some one has said "Love

[COLUMN 3]

not; the thing you love may die." But my
experience has taught me that, "It is bet-
ter to have loved and lost, than never to
have loved at all." If we wish to feel as
we should feel, and live as we should live;
if we wish to be successful in the perfor-
mance of all life's duties; if we desire true
happiness, we must love and be loved, from
the cradle to the grave; and if, through
any unfavorable circumstances whatever,
we are deprived of "the bliss of loving,
and of being loved," our loss is incalcula-
ble. It is an axiom that there can be no
true love where there is no respect. Love
is the normal condition of our race.
	The new-born babe nestling in its moth-
er's bosom appreciates love, and the capaci-
ty to appreciate love continues (under fa-
vorable circumstances) to increase during
the periods of childhood and adolescence,
at which period that peculiar phase of love,
which seeks the society of the opposite sex,
is strengthened and intensified. And if
we are governed by correct principles, this
immortal passion will continue with us
through the journey of life, smoothing our
pathway, cheering, comforting and encour-
aging us in prosperity and in adversity, in
health and in sickness, and under all cir-
cumstances it will make our meeting with
the grim monster, Death, appear less terri-
ble; it will brighten our passage through the
dark "valley of the shadow of death;" it
will attend us in the world of spirits, and
will continue to inspire us to godlike deeds.
	"While life or thought or being lasts
	Or immortality endures."
	In conclusion, I will quote the language
of an able writer on this interesting and
important subject. In speaking of love he
says: "It is not confined to the gifted, the
high born or the rich, nor is it peculiar to
any period of the world, or to any condition
of life. All have possessed the sensibility, if
they have not experienced the passion; they
have felt the want of love, if they have not
enjoyed its fruition."
	"Love sheds on earth something of the
beauty and the light of heaven. Love de-
velops the noblest traits of humanity; and
often brings them out from those persons
who had given little promise of possessing
them until they were brought under the in-
fluence of this master passion. There is
nothing so great, so difficult, or so self-sac-
rificing, that love will not inspire men to
dare, and do. But it is not more in splendid
achievements or wonderful adventures, than
it is in the innumerable little things which
conspire to make up the happiness of social
life, that the greatest victories of love are
won. We cannot love any person, without
seeking his or her benefit, and in endeavor-
ing to benefit and please the object of our
affection, we are impelled to improve and
beautify ourselves, in order to become more
worthy of our beloved one's affection in re-
turn. And this leads us not only to adorn
our persons, but to polish our manners, and
cultivate our minds. Hence we are deeply
indebted to this sentiment, for those quali-
ties of mind and person, which combine to
constitute us social beings; since it does not
more certainly impel us to the acquisition
of what is beautiful and becoming in dress,
and deportment, than to the attainment of
intelligence, politeness, and to surround
ourselves with all the embellishments of
civilization. Love refines all that it touch-
es. Under its influence the rough boy be-
comes the respectful young gentleman, and
the awkward girl assumes the innate refine-
ment of the lady. Love paints the cheeks
with roses, adds more lustre and intelligence


to the eye, imparts strength and elasticity
to the step, grace and dignity to the mien,
courage to the heart, eloquence to the ton-
gue, and poetry to every thought. In fact
love is the poetry of life, and the life of poe-
try. Love has inspired in every age the
brightest dreams of fancy, and the noblest
conceptions of literature, and of art, consti-
tuting the perpetual theme which animates
the writer's pen, and tunes the "poet's lyre."

O happy love!—where love like this is found!—
O heartfelt rapture! bliss beyond compare!
I've paced much this weary world around
And sage experience bids me this declare—
If heaven a draught of heavenly pleasure spare,
One cordial in this melancholy vale,
'Tis when a youthful, loving, modest pair,
In other's arms breathe out the tender tale,
Beneath the milk-white thorn that scents the evning gale.
BURNS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
AN ORDINANCE.

ESTABLISHING FIRELIMITS, AND FOR
THE PREVENTION OF FIRES.

	SEC. 1.—Be it ordained by the City Coun-
cil of Salt Lake City: That the following
be and are hereby established as the fire
limits of said City, viz:—All of blocks 76,
69, 58, 57, 70, and 75, Plat A. Salt Lake
City Survey; and within said limits it shall
be unlawful to erect any building, the out-
er walls of which are in whole, or in part,
constructed of wood, except so much as 
may be necessary for door and window
frames, cornice, doors, sash and shutters;
and the roofs of all buildings hereafter
erected, or newly roofed, within said limits
shall be covered with metal or other in-
combustible material; and each building
shall be separated from all others by a party
wall of brick, adobie, or rock, not less than
nine inches thick from the foundation to the
roof, from front to rear, and to extend
through and above the roof not less than
two feet, so as to entirely separate any com-
munication of wood between such building 
and any other; and in all buildings where
fire is kept there shall be flues or chimneys
built of brick or adobie, and all stove pipes
shall be conducted into flues or chimneys,
and if they pass through wooden partitions
they must be protected from the same by
metal ventilated thimbles, and in no case
shall a stove pipe be allowed to pass through
the roof, or out of the side of any building.
	SEC. 2.—The erection of such buildings
as are mentioned in Section one upon any
block not included within the aforesaid lim-
its, may be prohibited upon application to
the City Council in writing, signed by the
owners of the greater part of the property
in said block. Such application shall be ac-
companied by a plot of the block, designat-
ing the property of each owner by his
name, written on the plot representing his
property; and the City Council, being satis-
fied that the applicants are the owners of
the greater part of said property, may ex-
tend the fire limits over said block.
	SEC. 3.—No person shall, within said fire
limits, keep hay or straw, in stack or pile,
without having the same enclosed so as to
protect it from flying sparks of fire; and no
owner or occupant of a livery or other sta-
ble, or any other person, shall use therein,
or in any other place containing hay, straw
or other combustible matters, any lighted 
candle, or other light, except the same be
kept, safely enclosed in a lantern or other
suitable covering to protect the same.
	SEC. 5.—Whoever shall, in person or by
another, erect any building within said fire
limits in violation of this ordinance, shall
be liable to a fine not to exceed one hundred

[Column 2]
dollars, and the further sum of twenty-five
dollars for every day after twenty-days no-
tice that the building is permited to stand;
and any person who shall become the own-
er thereof after the same shall have been so
built, and who shall omit, neglect or refuse
to remove the same within twenty days af-
ter notice, shall be liable to pay the same
penalties; and for the violation of any other
provision of this Ordinance not herein pro-
vided for, shall be liable to a fine in any
sum not to exceed one hundred dollars.
	SEC. 6—Any person, within the limits of
this city, laying timbers, wood, or lumber
in any flue, or chimney where fire passes, or
laying joist, timbers, or lumber into any
fireplace or under the hearth stone, shall be
liable to a fine not to exceed one hundred
dollars, and a further sum of five dollars for
every day that such joist, timbers, wood, or
lumber are permitted to remain after hav-
ing been notified to remove the same.
	SEC. 7—It shall not be lawful, within the
limits of said city, for the owner, occupant
or other person having control or any steam
saw, or planing mill, or factory, of any
kind, or foundry, machine shop, or other
establishment, to erect any smoke-stack or
chimney in connection therewith of less
height than ten feet above the highest build-
ing on the block, and shall securely brace
or stay the same, and shall have on said
stack or chimney a bonnet or spark arrester,
all to be done to the acceptance of the in-
spector of buildings.
	SEC. 8—The owners of all buildings with-
in the limits of this city wherein fire is
kept are hereby required to build flues or
chimneys of brick or adobie in said build-
ings, and from and after the passage of this
Ordinance it shall be unlawful to project
any stovepipe through the roof or out of
the side of any building; and on or before
the First day of March, A. D. 1855 all stove-
pipes through the roof or out of the side of
any building shall be removed by the owner
thereof.
	SEC. 9.—It shall not be lawful for any
person within the limits of this city to use
coal oil or other combustible fluid for the
purpose of kindling fires, or to handle the
same by pouring from one vessel to another
at any other time than by daylight.
	SEC. 10.—Any person violating or failing
to comply with any of the provisions of 
the last three sections of this Ordinance
shall be liable to a fine not to exceed fifty
dollars and a further sum of five dollars for
every day that any stovepipe is permitted
to remain through the roof or out of the
side of any building, after the first day of
March, A. D. 1876.
	Passed November 30th, 1875.
				DANIEL H. WELLS,
							Mayor.

Territory of Utah,
	Salt Lake City. }SS
			
				This certifies that the fore-
going is a true copy of the ordinance, enti-
tled, "An Ordinance establishing fire lim-
its and for the prevention of fires," passed
by the City Council, Nov. 30th, 1875.
	Given under my hand and the Corporate
		seal of Salt Lake City, this 7th
		day of December, A. D., 1875.
{L. S.}
			ROBERT CAMPBELL,
					City Recorder.


A MIRAGE.
	I have long promised to give a descrip-
tion of a mirage which I have seen several
times in Minnesota. A myth! Dear read-
er, when you see an extensive mirage, I
feel sure you will acknowledge you are
really seeing quite a sight, a pleasant and in-
teresting one too. Houses and groves rise,
one after another in the background, and
even lakes can be seen at a great distance
during one.
	I was once standing a few rods from the
north shore of a beautiful lake which was
from four to five miles wide, when the
south shore appeared to be no more  than as
few rods away. I had scarcely time to re-
cover from my astonishment before it was
out of sight again. Usually mirages re-
main longer and sometimes may be seen in
their splendor for hours together. It is not
very uncommon to see groves twenty miles
away during a mirage. You really see the
groves, the distance only being what is de-
ceptive at the time.
	Villages rise in like manner, and were 
once seen in the direction where the Indi-
ans had murdered so many inhabitants that
it was easy to fancy that the smoke, as it
rose in the magnifying as well as refraction
of the rays of light, was like towering mon-
uments, placed over their departed friends,
who had a few years before been victims of
the treacherous savages. Haystacks tower
up, and remind one of the pyramids
of Egypt, rather than stacks from two to
five miles away. I was not long since much
amused by reading a short but graphic de-
scription of a mirage, given by an Indian
chief who was trying to forcibly impress a
young hunter with the vast power of the
Great Spirit. Said he, "The Great Spirit
took a large mountain away from its place
and put it on top of another one and let it
remain a few hours, and then put it back
again in its own place."
Aunt Flora.
		LAMARTINE'S MARRIAGE.
	The story of the marriage of the great
French poet and statesman, is one of ro-
mantic interest. The lady was of an En-
glish family named Birch, and very wealthy.
She first fell in love with the poet from
reading his "Meditations Poetiques." She
was slightly past the bloom of youth, but
still young and fair. She read and re-read
the "Meditations," and nursed the tender
sentiment in secret, At length she saw
Lamartine in Geneva, and her love became
a part of her very life. Not long after this
she was made acquainted with the fact that
the poet was suffering, even to unhappiness,
from the embarrassed state of his pecuniary
affairs.
	Miss Birch was not long in deciding up-
on her course. She would not allow the
happiness of a lifetime to slip from her if
she could prevent. She wrote to the poet a
frank and womanly letter, acknowledging
her deep interest and profound respect, and
offering him the bulk of her fortune, if he
were willing to accept it. Of course Lamar-
tine could not but suspect the truth. Deep-
ly touched by her generosity, he called upon
her, and found her to be not only fair to
look upon, but a woman of a brilliant liter-
ary and artistic education. He made an
offer of his hand and heart, which was
promptly and gladly accepted; and in the
after years Alphonso de Lamartine owed not
more to his wife's wealth than to her sus-
taining love and inspiring enthusiasm.—N.
Y. Ledger.


MATILDA Jane (catching the pastor after
Sunday school,) "Oh, sir, please, what would
you charge to christen my doll?"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	It is gratifying to know that the sisters
are awakening to a greater sense of the re-
sponsibility resting upon them as mothers
and co-workers with the brethren in assist-
ing to raise the standard of Zion. There
is much to be accomplished in a very short
space of time, and all who will be earnest
in coming forward and in sharing in the
toils and difficulties which continually
arise in the pathway of the servants of
God, will assuredly have the Holy Spirit to
bear testimony to them that they are on the
right road to attain celestial glory and hap-
piness hereafter. Do not wait for some-
thing to be put into your hands to do, but
work to-day at home, among your friends,
in every place where you may be, with all
the energy you possess to inspire those
around you, with the spirit of the great and
holy mission of reforming and regenerat-
ing society, at home and abroad. Woman's
voice may be heard in private in every
house, if not in public; advocate the prin-
ciples of true reform, not only of repentance
and sorrow for past offences, but for con-
stant and continual steadfast integrity of
purpose, in duty and work. If you are
strong in faith, be generous and charitable
toward those wao have not so much expe-
rience and are not so thoroughly established
in all good works. Every woman should,
as far as possible, exercise an influence
which may be felt in the circle of her asso-
ciations. Every mother can have if they
are careful, wise and discreet, an influence
in their own household and among those
under their care and guidance, which will
tend to improvement of all connected with
them. Let ewery word spoken convey an
idea or principle of thought or feeling, or
motive which shall be understood as emana
ting from a foundation of purity of purpose
and action. Shall we who have had the
light of intelligence from heaven flowing
into our hearts, and whispering to us for so
many years, let our sons and daughters
grow up in ignorance of the laws of life
and salvation, and become as darkened in
their minds as those whose parents never
knew aught of the laws of God? If we
are thus remiss in teaching, (and in doing
as well as teaching) the principles of eter-
nal truth revealed from heaven, we cannot
expect our children to advance. We have
been making continual sacrifices that our
children might surpass us, and ascend into
a purer atmosphere of thought and feeling,
than the world is surrounded with. Shall
we miss the attainment of the object for
which we have been striving, because we
are too indolent and weak to stand boldly
forth in defense of the principles we 
have espoused?
EMILE.
	S. L. City, Nov. 25th, 1875.


A TERRIBLE sequel to an hour's amuse-
ment telling ghost stories occurred at a
Surgical Institute recently. A room full of
young ladies, patients of the institute,
amused and excited each other by stories of
terrific apparitions, hobgoblins, ghosts, etc.
The gas had been turned out either inten-
tionally or by accident. In the climax of a
vivid story one of the girls threw her shawl
over a trembling comrade. A little rustle
and strange conduct was noticed. When a
light was brought the fact was revealed
that the poor girl was insane. She has re-
mained so ever since, yet hopes are enter-
tained of her recovery.


THE FUTURE.—The future is always
fairy-land to the young.  Life is like a
beautiful and winding lane, on either side
bright flowers, and beautiful butterflies, and
tempting fruits, which we scarcely pause to
admire or taste; so eager  we are to hasten
to an opening which we imagine will be
more beautiful still.  But, by degrees as
we advance, the trees grow bleak; the flow-
ers and butterfiles fail; the fruits disappear,
and we find we have arrived, to reach a
desert waste; in the centre, a stagnant and
Lethean lake, over which wheel and shriek
the dark-winged birds, the embodied mem-
ories of the past.


NOTICE.

	The undersigned begs to inform the public, she has
sure and safe remedies for Disentery, Diarrhoea; Coughs,
Canker, Cramp, Palpitation of the Heart, Liver and Lung
cmplaints, Bruises, Itch, Yellow Jaundice Female
Weaknesses of all kinds and premature births a specialty.
Ladies accommodated with rooms at my residence during
confinement.
 NICKOLINE OLSEN, Exam. Midwife. 4 1-2 blocks South
of Street Car Station. 4th East St., 2nd Ward)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

		AT TEASDEL'S
	On and after December 1st I will sell all Raisins and
Currants and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared,
thus giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their
Mince Meat for Christmas.  A full Supply of Presents for 
Christmas and New [-]ear in useful and substantial items.
	Dried Apples, to the many inquiries, I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

	WALLIN & TANNER,
	CROESBECK BLOCK, SECOND SOUTH STREET.
		Wholesale and Retail dealers in
HARNESS, SADDLES,
		AND
Horse Blankets,
		CHEAPER THAN EVER.
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
		----:o:----
	Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
		Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps. Boots
	and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
		Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fasioned House.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
	 doors below Walker House, and examine our
	  goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
	   take pleasure in making to order. such
	     brushes as we have not on hand.
			Wm. II. MILES, Supt.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	LITTLE & ROUNDY,
		Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
	TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
		23, MAIN STREET.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
	MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
		AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
	Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
	MILLINERY.
		----:o:----
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage. She is now prepared to ac_
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Z. C. M. I.
	Wholesale and Retail Dealing
		in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
  HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARD,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	  STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
  AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	O. L. ELIASON,
		DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry,
		Second South Street, Opposite Walker
			Brothers' Bank.
	Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted to
			ONE YEAR.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
		IF YOU WANT CHEAP
COOK PARLOR & HEATING STOVES
	TINWARE, FRUIT CANS, Etc.,
		GO TO
W. HARRISON'S,
	One door South of Constitution Buildings,
		Main Street.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
		THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
		priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
		S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
		LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good substantial 
	Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
		them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR:
BUTTER and EGGS,
			F. GOSS, Supt.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

	EVERY DESCRIPTION
		OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND 
GENERAL DRY GOODS
		------
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
		------
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
		------
		H. E. PHELPS, 
			29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper,
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

