VOL. 4.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1876.	No. 24.


For the EXPONENT.
QUEEN MAY.

		At last then thou hast come!
		The early flow'rs have blown,
We've woven for thy brow the lilies fair,
	Thy message floated hither on the breeze,
The perfume of thy breath was in the air;
	We heard thee softly echo in the trees,
And song-birds of the spring to welcome thee
		Poured joyous melody.

		Why shyly didst thou stay,
		Why linger on thy way?
Thy merry laughter echoed in the brook
	The music of a key-note soft and clear?
Near thou wert hiding in some shady nook
	Keeping time to the rythm of the year:
We were waiting thy glad coming to greet
		Nymph of the fairy feet.

		Thou pleasure seeking elf,
		Thinking only of thyself
Chasing butterflies and sporting all the day,
	Trailing garlands of bright flowers along,
To thy bower of roses lead the way,
	And tell us why thou hast tarried so long.
And what dost thou bring from thy home far away
		To welcome thy patrons Queen May?

		Thou brings't healing sunshine;
		The buds on tree and vine
Burst in bloom when thou reignest in thy power,
	Enchantress, Queen of Nature's Jubilee,
Thou has brought us beauty for thy dower
	And tuned the silent groves to melody;
And in gratitude we bless thy smiling face
		Which adorns earth's dwelling place.

	EMILE.
S.L. City, May 11, 1876.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
				GOOD-BY.

	It is a simple innocent expression; one
would hardly think it could imply such
wondrous meaning, and veil behind it so
much of heart-ache and sorrow; carry so
much real pain into the hidden recesses of
the human soul. It is often lightly and
heedlessly spoken in a casual way, without
meaning, almost; and without thought.
For myself I prefer for common occasions
the more unpretentious good morning, or
good evening when parting for compara-
tively short intervals.
	Who has not felt the pang occasioned by
this little word when in parting with a be-
loved one, perchance to enter upon new
scenes, to tread other paths, (it may be
thorny ones) we see them go out from us
and we can only murmur "Good-by—God
bless you;" and we know that henceforth
we are not to be near to soothe, to bless; to
restrain, by influence, or affection. Reflec-
tion comes at such times to all, how or when
they will meet again. All the tenderness
of nature rises involuntarily to the surface,
and the best and finest feelings of the soul
go out after the dear one who is leaving us,
and in the great agony of our hearts we fal-
ter out the honest good-by.
	We would fain say more, the words well
up to our lips, our hearts throb painfully,
the tears are ready to gush forth unbidden,
restrained by our resolve to be brave we
force them back, though the torrent is ready
to burst; and clasp the hand to say the sim-
ple words of parting.
	How many good-bys can we recall when
no thought of death or estrangement has
[-]ashed upon the mind intuitively, each

[Column 2]
have gone their separate ways and have
met no more; or a[-]ter long intervals, when
all trace of the trust that once existed had
faded out, and the meeting was of strang-
ers; new incidents had crowded in their
path, new occupations and new scenes had
engaged their attention, and one or both,
had canceled the histories of the past days.
It is not easy to resume associations after
long years of separation, one can scarcely
take up the thread of life where they laid
it down; and tracing it through and through
bring it evenly down to the present.
	There are many good-bys that chill the
heart and freeze the current of of warm blood
for the moment, many that are only record-
ed by the guardian angels, so silent and un-
complaining the grief. We can all realize
more or less the infinite meaning of this
simple salutation; it often implies more
than it would seem to convey; and we can
not be too careful; in parting with those who
are dear, be sure and do so in kindness.
If there has been a mis-spoken word, a lack
of warmth or confidence, put it all aside,
hide it away never more to be brough for-
ward, bury it where no corresponding in-
fluence can ever arouse it, and let the time
of parting only call up memories of ten-
derness in its place. Never manifest indif-
ference at times like these, there is no vir-
tue in it, we are not a whit the less brave
because we express emotions.
	It is not disparaging either to man or wo-
man to be touched deeply at parting with a
dear friend, or relative. Many a warm
heart has been unwontingly chilled at the
indifference manifested at parting, when
perhaps underneath the cold exterior beat
true and honest love. We can only judge of
persons by their acts, it is impossible to
sound the depths of another's heart; and if
we would bestow happiness and leave pleas-
ant impressions in the minds of others and
have them carry with them recollections of
happy days that will always be comfort-
ing in absence, then say good-by not
in coldness, but with earnest sincerity ex-
pressing the good wishes it would convey
to the heart; that there may be no after-
pang should that good-by even be the last
on earth.
							AUNT EM.
	May, 7th, 1876.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.

	IT IS fully expected that Woman Suffrage
will shortly be debated in the Senate of the
United States.

	ON SUNDAY, May 6th, a terrible tornado
and rain storm passed over Leavensworth,
Kansas City and Chicago; the destruction
was great, and some lives were lost.

	MR. WILSON and Rev. Mr. Gledstone
have come to America as envoys from the
"British and Continental Federation, for
the abolition of Government regulation of
Prostitution;" to assist in preventing such
legislation in this country.

	THE QUEEN of England has now received
the title Empress. It is the opinion of
many that this fancy of the Queen was a
foolish one. The majority ruled; yet, it is

[Column 2]
said upon good authority that the minority
represented the highest intelligences, and
the truest greatness really, of the English
nobility.

	THE CORNWALL Times, N. Y., the Or-
ange Journal, N. J., and the New York
Observer, have each published strong edi-
torials, against the licensing of the social
evil. The New York Tribune has publish-
ed "Memorial" by Mr. Powell, and a letter
from a correspondent in St. Louis, showing
the evil that such license has caused in that
city.
	These writers receive the heartiest
thanks of all who are interested in the pre-
venting of vice and crime, and should re-
ceive the highest commendation from all
who love virtue; and desire to see a better
condition of society.

	CENTENNIAL INFORMATION.—Arrange-
ments are being effected under the super-
intendence of General Norton, of the Cen-
tennial Bureau, to supply information to
the country press. What he desires is to
have a copy of each paper sent to his de-
partment, commencing May 1st, and in re-
turn lie wil[-]supply information and electro-
types of the buildings for publication. Ad-
dress Gen. C. B. Norton, Centennial Bureau,
904 Walnut street, Philadelphia.

	A NEW building has been erected in Bos-
ton, situated on East Concord Street, called
the "Masachusetts Homoepathic Hospital.
It has been paid for, also the ground on
which it stands, mostly by the Ladies' Aid
Association and their friends, in fairs and
gatherings and by donation, during the last
few years. One of the Professors, Dr. Mary
J. Safford Blake, was elected during the
last year on the Medical Staff of the Hom-
oeopathic Hospital. This was done in re-
sponse to an appeal from the officers of the
Ladies' Aid Association, whereby patients
so desiring, could be attended by a woman
physician. Women students are accepted
upon the same conditions as men. In the
graduating class so far, women have carried
off the honors.

	ONE OF the admirers of the talent-
ed and celebrated English authoress,
George Eliott, gives a portraiture of her
appearance and surroundings. Her house
is surrounded by a high brick wall, and is
far from the street. The hall is furnished
in a foreign fashion lik[---] parlor and has a
grate and bright fire in cool weather; there
visitors leave their cards and wait to be an-
nounced. This hall opens into a large draw-
ing-room—here, the visitor says, Mr. Lewes
(the husband) met him at the door, led him
forward and presented him to his wife.
She is described as slender and of medium
height, an oval face, an abundance of hair,
doubtless, once fair, but now almost gray,
and questioning light eyes. Her dress was
of black velvet, finished at the throat and
wrists with rare lace, her only ornament a
Cameo pin surrounded with pearls. She
has a remarkably sweet and harmonious
voice, and her talk is most charming, though
decided and definite, yet she expresses her
feelings and opinions with a sincere defer-
ence to those of others. Her face in conver-
sation is wonderfully illuminated.


187		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Association held in the 
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Apr.
15, 1876, was well attended and a spirit of
interest manifested by those who spoke on
the subject of home-manufacture, improve-
ment and self-culture. President Mrs. M.
I. Horne had been absent for some time
from them and remarked how happy she
felt to be once more with those who had be-
come so dear to her through these organiza-
tions. There were two Elders present who 
bore testimony to the good spirit manifested
and their faith in the power and influence
of woman for good.
	On the 30th of April the same Association
convened per adjournment at the same
place. The meeting was one of strong tes-
timony and general interest. The minutes
of the different Junior Associations, read
by the young secretaries were a good speci-
men of the great improvement rapidly be-
ing made among the young. The meeting
was dismissed abruptly on account of a 
threatening storm.

WILLARD CITY, BOX ELDER Co.,
	Apr. 15, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the young ladies of Willard City, were
organized as a Retrenchment Association
on Tuesday evening July 27, 1875, and we
are improving wonderfully. We have formed
resolutions as follows; and we are trying to
keep them to the best of our ability.
	1.Resolved: That as slang phrases and
by-words, as they are termed, are unbecom-
ing and not lady-like, we will refrain from
the use thereof.
	2. Resolved: That inasmuch as it is a
portion of the Word of Wisdom to abstain
from the use of tea, coffee &c. we will do
so.
	3. Resolved: That we will always dress
neatly and in a becoming manner, not in-
dulging in the foolish fashions of the world;
but will make our own fashions, such as
will be suitable for our health and comfort.
	4. Resolved: That we will spend our
leisure time in gaining knowledge from
useful books, and other healthful pursuits.
	5. Resolved: That we will refrain
from indulging in round-dancing, having
been counseled to do so, and believing it to 
be injurious to our health etc.
	6. Resolved: That if we have been in
the habit of speaking evil of each other
we will strive to do so no more.
	I think if we will observe these rules,
uphold the authorities in their office and
calling, and listen to the instructions and
good counsel given us from time to time, we
will find the treasure we are now seeking for,
even eternal lives.
	MARIA WOOD Assist. Sec.

SODA SPRINGS, ONEIDA Co., IDAHO.
	Apr. 11, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a line or two from our snowy
home would not be uninteresting to your
many readers, prompts me to write.
	Our winter has been unusually long and
severe, and very little signs of Spring yet.
We have been startled by twelve or four-
teen shocks of earthquakes, occurring on
the 5th, 6th, and 7th inst., doing no damage
however, more than to frighten a few people.
	Our Relief Society was organized on Feb.
5th, with the following named officers: Mrs.
Anna M. Folkemann, Prest., Mrs. Hannah
Raymond and Mrs. Mary Jane Sterrett, Coun-

[COLUMN 2]

selors, Doreth Lau, Treasurer. Our settle-
ment is small, yet we hope to do something
for the furtherance of the Gospel of our
Savior, and for the relief of the poor if any
should chance to come this way.
	Our Sabbath-day meetings are well at-
tended, as also our Fast-day meetings. We
have a day school in operation and, but few
dances.
	Wishing success to the EXPONENT,
		I remain your Sister,
			M. J. STERRET, SEC.
PLAIN CITY, WEBER Co., Apr.
	29, 76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I write to let you know how we are get-
ting along with our Retrenchment Associa-
tion. We meet together once a week, open
our meetings with singing and prayer.
There are not many young ladies here in
Plain City, but there are a great many lit-
tle girls, who rise and bear testimony to the 
things of God.
	Our Retrenchment Association was organ-
ized the 16th of Nov., 1875, with the follow-
ing officers:
	Mrs. Emily Shirtliffe, President,
	" 	Mary Raymond,
	"	Burty Funk,
	"	Jane Stewart,
	"	Charlotta Green,		Counselors.
	"	Ameriam Stephens,
	Miss Annie Hansen,
	"	Margery Shomaker,	Sec'y's.
	"	Aggie Geddes, 
	Mrs. Charlotte Linderloff, Treasurer.
	We had a Leap-year Ball on the 16th of
March; the hall was beautifully decorated
for the occasion. Dancing commenced at 2
o'clock p. m., and closed at 10. We have
had no round-dancing this year.
	M. A. SHOMAKER, Sec'y.

HARRISVILLE, Apr. 25, 1846.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a report of an excellent meet-
ing held in this place. President Jane S.
Richards, her Counselors, Sisters' Harriet
Brown and Sarah Herrick, and three of the
young sisters, Harriet and Martha Brown
and Lettie Veera, also Prest. F. D. Richards,
Elder L. J. Herrick, besides a large num-
ber of brethren and sisters of this place
were present. A good spirit prevailed, and
much was said which was very encouraging
to the Society. We are not doing as much 
in financial affairs as some societies, but en-
deavor to look after the poor and afflicted.
Our Young Ladies' Society is doing well,
they hold their meetings once a week, and
are making great improvement which will
certainly be a great benefit to them both
now and in the later years; it will never be as
hard for them to speak of their religion in
public, as it has been for those who are old-
er, and who have been educated differently;
when I was young it was not customary for
the sisters to bear their testimonies in pub-
lic; it was a great cross for me to speak of
the principles of my religion even to my
own family; and my children have lacked
instruction that should have come from
their mother's lips. I would therefore ad-
vise the young girls to profit by my experi-
ence, and improve their minds in every-
thing that is good, that you may impart it
to your children, and so improve each gen-
eration, until we return back to the pres-
ence of our Father in Heaven.
	It is a great blessing to receive the EX
PONENT which is filled with the instruction
we need. I pray God to bless it, and those

[COLUMN 3]

who labor to bring it forth, that it may long
continue a welcome messenger to each good
family.
	Yours Truly,
	MARY E. TAYLOR, Sec'y.
	MELISSA A. SHIRTLIFF, Pres.  

ROCKVILLE, Apr. 16, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Retrenchment Association in this
place meet once a week and the young sis-
ters take great interest in attending meet-
ing and Sunday School, we have good times
and enjoy the spirit of the Lord; we take
one volume of the EXPONENT and appre-
ciate it very much. We intend having an
Excursion Party on May-day; the girls are
diligent in learning pieces and songs for
the occasion.
	We are organized the 2nd of last Feb-
ruary with thirty-eight members. Officers
as follows:
	Mrs. Henrietta Stout Prsident,
	"	Clindara Stout,
	Miss Charlotte Hall,
	"	Hannah Jennings,		Counselors
	"	Anne Palmer,
	"	Anne Parker,
	"	Margery Terry,
	"	Emma Jennings,		Teachers.
	"	Emma J. Brown,
	"	Ellen Langston,		Sec'y's.
	"	Emma Holladay, 
	Our resolutions are as follows:
	1st. Resolved: That we each take an ac-
tive part in our meetings and do that which
is required of us, and by our example show
that we really wish to become useful and in
telligent.
	2d. That we not only reform in dress, but
in everything that will tend to make us
true and noble women; by keeping good
company, choosing our words and practis-
ing politeness.
	3rd. That we will reform in our language,
by dropping all slang phrases, and words
that originate from the low and vulgar
class of people, and use that which will be-
come the daughters of the Latter-day
Saints.
	4th. That we strive to set an example
worthy of imitation by respecting the aged,
both by language and conduct, also respect
ourselves, and all who are worthy of it.
	5th. That we strive to be true Daughters
of Zion by observing the Word of Wisdom,
and informing our minds by reading useful
and instructive books.
	6th. That we will attend meetings and
Sunday Schools, and assemblies where good
instructions are given, that we may pre-
pare ourselves for the various duties that 
devolve upon us and help bear off the great
work in which we are engaged.
	ELLEN LANGSTON, Sec'y.


FIFTY-ONE societies, associations and
conventions have appointed Philadelphia as
a place of meeting this summer. The Wo-
man's Congress will hold its fourth meeting
there in October. The President of this or-
ganization is Prof. Maria Mitche[-]l of Vas-
sar. The last meeting was at Syracuse, New
York, in 1875. The subjects discussed were
science for women, the immediate needs of
women in their social and business rela-
tions, and the most effective methods of
remedying those needs. Art for women,
and the relation of women to crime and
criminals.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	188


WE CAN MAKE HOME HAPPY.

	THOUGH we may not change the cottage
		For many mansions tall and grand,
	Or exchange the little grass spot
		For a boundless stretch of land—
	Yet there's something brighter, dearer,
		Than the wealth we'd thus command.

	Though we have no means to purchase
		Costly pictures rich and rare—
	Though we have no silken hangings
		For the walls so cold and bare,
	We can hang them o'er with garlands,
		For flowers bloom everywhere.

	We can make home very cheerful
		If the right course we begin:
	We can make its inmates happy
		And their truest blessings win:
	It will make a small room brighter
		If we let the sunshine in.

	We can fill our home with music
		And with sunshine brimming o'er,
	If against all dark intruders
		We will firmly close the door;
	Yet should the evil shadow enter,
		We must love each other more.

	There are treasures for the lowly
		Which the grandest fail to find,
	There's a chain of sweet affection
		Bringing friends of kindred mind;
	We may reap the choicest blessings
		From the poorest lot assigned.

									ANONYMOUS.


[Column 1]
	SERIOUS REFLECTIONS OF THE
			OLD MAID.

      AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED TO
				HAL.

	What shall I say? I am afraid I can't
say anything. Here I am in the school-
room, with my spectacles all awry, and a
half dozen little urchins pulling at my cap-
strings to attract my attention; and one of
the little wretches actually had the audac-
ity to plant a solid little foot exactly on my
worst corn! Oh, but didn't I give him a
good shaking! He was aware that he had a
pair of ears for some time afterwards.
	Such things are so trying to the nerves;
especially when a person has arrived at the
age of thirty or thirty-five. Not very old
to be sure, but considerably past the age of
"sweet sixteen."
	Pardon me, I am digressing from my sub-
ject—Oh, but I hadn't selected a subject
yet, had I?
	Let me see! I am to write in a more se-
rious strain. You would prefer that my
communications indicated a sober and re-
flective mind. Now I am most desirious of
pleasing you, and feel confident that you
will experience the agreeable sensation, (of
being pleased) when you learn that I am
very sedate. In fact, scarcely ever smile.
You don't know: why I sit hour after hour
and study and reflect on such sublime and
elevating subjects, as Astronomy, Philoso-
phy Hygiene, and Matrimony. Don't you
see what a vast expanse of intellect I have?
I was going to say something right here,
but have forgotten what it was. Let it pass,
and perhaps I will think of it at some other
time. Unfortunately, the paper containing
your last article has been mislaid, and no
amount of searching will reveal its where-
abouts; so I am afraid I can not reply to
your questions in logical order. I believe
POLITICS was one of the subjects on which
you asked me to express my opinion. I

[Column 2]
take a little interest in politics, enough t
read most of the reports published in the
daily papers.
	Don't you pity poor Mrs. Belknap? It
must have been so humiliating to fall from
her high estate to such distress and shame.
I am rather Democratic in my tendencies,
but must confess that I am not well enough
posted at present to discuss the subject in-
telligently.
	I must confess a weakness for poetry.
Tennyson and Longfellow are my favorite
authors, my admiration being about equally
divided between the two. Tennyson's
"Elaine" is a sweet sad story, and "Enoch
Arden," especially the dramatization of the
poem, is really very touching, judging from
the lively manner in which the pocket-
handkerchiefs were flourished at the recent
presentation of the play before the Salt
Lake public. There were some very sus-
ceptible and sympathetic hearts beating in
my vicinity, I knew by the half subdued
sobs and pathetic sighs which I frequently
heard. I greatly admire Longfellow's
"Evangeline," but would like it better if
the termination was less sorrowful, and if,
instead of  finding the object of all her
hopes and affections only when she was dy-
ing, they had been allowed to end their
days in happiness. It seems too bad to suf-
fer them to remain so long apart when
Evangeline was seeking her lover in every
part of the globe, and he so near her some-
times that, had they only known it, they
might have spoken. The ending of the
"Courtship of Miles Standish" was so very
different; and left the principal parties so
happy. That was its chief attraction for
me.
	Don't you agree with me? I hope you
do, for I should feel perfectly distracted if I
thought you would disagree with me on
any subject.
	Music I can not say much about, except
that I am passionately fond of it. It recalls
by-gone days when I had a beau and he came
under my window one rainy night and
commenced playing "Captain Kidd" (that
was a popular song then,) on a cracked flute.
But sorrowful to relate, I mistook the float-
ing melody for the wail of a friendless and
forlorn member of the feline race, and as I
entertain a high regard for all such, I
thought on this occasion to entice the noble
animal to come to me, and for this purpose
opened my window and called in a melodi-
ous voice "puss! puss! puss!" To my in-
tense surprise I discovered that it was some
one serenading me, and endeavored to ex-
plain matters, and even offered an apology
for the mistake, but all to no purpose. The
gentleman seemed much offended and
would not listen to reason, and so departed
in high dudgeon. I wish I might add that
he went through life a lonely old bachelor,
but such is not a fact. He was married the
very next Sunday to "Aramantha Pepper-
corn," an awful 'or'nary young woman. But
as the poet states: "Such is life," and "We
all do fade as the leaf!"
	I entertain firmly grounded religious con-
victions, and my place at church is seldom
vacant, and then only when I am detained
at home by sickness. But how malicious
and envious some people are. Once when
I was detained at home by an attack of my
old foe, the rheumatism, it was whispered
that the real cause of my absence from
church was the loss of my set of new teeth.
The idea! Though of course they were
gone, and when my neice, 'Mandy, saucy
jade, came in and said she had found them
in my drawer, I had my own opinion; for
only the week before I had lectured her on

[Column 3]
the worldly-mindedness of this generation
and scolded her soundly for thinking o
staying at home from church just because
she hadn't her new dress finished, and told
her that on no account would I stay at
home.
	That I admire painting, my frequent vis-
its to the Art gallery attest. Botany is a
favorite study of mine. How do you like it?
	My article is already rather more lengthy
than I anticipated making it when I com-
menced. I will only add, that if you have
any pet theories to advance on any subject,
from the probability of an eclipse to the la-
test styles of spring hats, please give them
an airing, that I may decide how they co-
incide with my own opinions.
	Sincerely hoping that I have said nothing
to offend the nice sense of propriety I see
you possess.
				I remain as firm as ever,.
		THE OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.
	April 23, 1876.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Sartain and Mrs. Wormley, of Col-
umbus, Ohio, are both celebrated for en-
graving upon steel.
	MRS. Captain McCoy teaches practical
navigation. She resides in Madison Street,
Mew York City.
	MRS. D. B. Merrill, of Anamosa, Iowa,
has been appointed Chaplain and teacher at
the Anamosa Penitentitary. This is the
first instance of the kind on record.
	MRS. Mary A. Livermore, has been lec-
turing in the Western States on "Superflu-
ous Women," and other like subjects. She
is said to be one of the most impressive and
pathetic speakers, and a woman of the high-
est tone of cultivation and refinement.
	MISS Edith Story, daughter of the sculpt-
or, and granddaughter of Judge Story, re-
cently married Signor Peruzzi of the king's
household at Rome. Being a Protestant her
marriage could not be recognized as lawful
without sanction by the Pope; which it is
said is the first instance of the present Pope
granting such a request.
	MRS A. M. Diaz at the meeting of the
Moral Educational Society held recently,
read a paper, entitled "Can Nations
Stop Fighting and Shall We Continue to
Foster the War Spirit? Her ideas were to
show the inconsistency of Christian nations
warring, and that all difficulties "should be
settled by international arbitration."
	MADAME Guy-Lassac who has just died at
an advanced age, was a remarkable woman
in many respects. She opened a shop while
a young girl to support her father and fam-
ily who had lost their property in the
French Revolution. Her husband was then
a student at the Polytechnic school and be-
came acquainted with her through going to
the shop to make some purchases. He
found her intently reading a book, and in-
quired its title. She informed him it was a
"Treatise on Chemistry." He became in-
terested, fell in love, proposed, and was ac-
cepted. He was only a poor young man
then with a membership of the Academy;
but afterwards became a peer and a celeb-
rity. The lady was beautiful, witty and be-
came distinguished in society for her many
graces of mind; she was her husband's pri-
vate secretary.


OUR dead are never dead to us until we
have forgotten them.


189		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS, } Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a. m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY. MAY 15, 1876.


HONOR AND DISGRACE

	A popular sentiment, and one which is often
earned so far as to be productive of grievous
wrong, is that which ensures worthless and
hurtful individuals, good positions in society,
because of their bearing relationship to honor-
able and illustrious persons; and condemns or
casts aside innocent and useful ones, because of
evils committed by family or other near rela-
tives.
	"He is really an estimable young man, and I
am sure he thinks a great deal of you," says
an elder sister to one younger, "but I would
not have you marry him for anything, because
of the disreputable character of his brother."
	And the mother says she knows "the other
young man is rather wild, smokes, and drinks
a little too freely sometimes, but he comes of
such a respectable family and is liked so much
among his friends and is so young, she believes
that in a few years he will steady down and be
a good a man as either of his brothers; and a
mild, loving wife would help him so much in
overcoming his boyish ways."
	Under these and similar circumstances, many
a blooming girl is led to bestow the wealth of
her fresh young heart upon, decidedly the
wrong suitor. Most likely honest, upright
man is cheated of the bride he might have
won and rendered happy; while she, poor, pa-
tient soul, is doomed to the terrible fate of a
drunkard's wife.
	In reflecting upon these points we may con-
sider what the Scriptures teach us concerning
God the Father, His Son Jesus Christ, and Lu-
cifer who was once a son of the former and
brother of the latter. Can we feel that any
honor attaches itself to the Evil One through
this family connection? Or is the lustre of the
glory which belongs to the Holy Ones dimmed
in the least degree because of that unworthy
member of the family who was cut off and
cast from their midst? We think not.
	Here arises another feature which being ta-
ken into careful consideration, proves the val-
idity of the assertion that "there are exceptions
to all general rules." A wose man said "Train
up a child in the way he should go, and when
he is old he will not depart from it." And tak-
ing this view of the subjuct, we blame the par-
ents for the child's misconduct. If parents
have failed to teach their children true princi-
ples, the beauty of holiness and the folly of
sin, then they are inexcusably to blame if the
children fall into error. But shall we believe
it impossible for one who has been carefully
and prudently reared, to loose self-control and
become a criminal?
	It frequently occurs that a man or woman
who has through some inadvertency or other
weakness, earned and reaped dishonor and self-


reproach, may be afterwards seen, striving
through humility and a well ordered life to re-
gain the lost treasures, respectability and peace
of mind. Then does it become the true gen-
tleman or lady, who may have had acquaint-
ance with the former life, to refer to, or seek to,
remember the blemishes thereof? Ah no!

	When scandal sleeps, Oh pray revive it not!
	Recall thou not sad memories else forgot:
	Let present good for evils past atone,
	Give honor where you may, let disrepute alone.


CHARITY.

	There is a vast deal said in this day about
charity, and judging from the writings of St.
Paul it was much-talked-of in his day. He al-
ludes to it as paramount to all the other gifts
of the Gospel. But is not this subject, like
many others, paraded before the world in a false
light? Probably there never were so many
charitable institutions and so much money
and means expended in this way as in this
age, which is called the age of enlightenment.
But that true charity which is full of compas-
sion for another's weaknesses and faults, of this
there seems to be a lack. To visit the sick, and
soothe and cheer them, to administer to want,
these are virtues; but to guide the erring, to
lift up the fallen, minister to the soul bowed
down by its own infirmities is a priceless bless-
ing. The principle is given, but little of the
practice. Propriety forbids it, (the world's pro-
priety) but the seeds of true and undefiled re-
ligion produces among other good fruit, a sen-
timent for which we have the Highest Exam-
ple, that of the Savior's life upon the earth.
	Giving money freely in a lavish way is not
always real charity; indeed it often leads to
serious evil and harm those upon whom it is
bestowed. It is easy charity; but to encourage
with kind words and deeds the unfortunate, is
food to the hungry soul. There is certainly a
lack of genuine charity now-a-days though
there is so much ostentatious parade about
it, and one cannot but feel ashamed to confess
like many other late inventions it is hard to
find the genuine article, but there are quanti-
ties of shams. It is worthier of a noble mind
where failures occur, to give credit for good in-
tentions, rather than for bad.
	These crude and cursory remarks may open
up to the reflecting a field of thought; but let
this suffice good friends, and as quaint old
Norris said: "These are our thoughts, we might
have spun the subject to a greater length; but
we think a little plot of ground, thick-sown, is
better than a great field that for the most part
lieth fallow."


[Column 1]
		HOME AFFAIRS.
	THE TABERNACLE opened for the summer
season on Sunday May 7th, Elder Orso[-] Pratt
preached to the people. There were many
strangers present.
	We have received more reports of Relief So-
cieties and Retrenchment Associations than
we can publish at present, but will do so as fast
as practicable.
	THE FAMOUS minstrel troupe Billy Emerson,
the Paragon of mimics, Ben Cotton and others,
have again made Salt Lake a visit. Those who
have a taste for negro melody have been well
entertained.
	MRS. OATES is another contributor to our re-
cent entertainments. She is a lady of very
fine presence and well-grounded reputation in
the theatrical profession.
	THERE WAS a grand excursion to Lake Point
on Wednesday, May 10th, and a pleasant sail

[Column 2]
on the steamer to points of considerable dis-
tance. These excursions are very pleasant af-
fairs usually, and do one good after the tedious-
ness of confinement within doors during the 
winter.
	PRESIDENT YOUNG and party left the city on
their Southern tour on Monday morning, May
1st. A large number of relatives and friends
attended them to the terminus, returning on
the same evening. Saturday evening they
were in Parowan. And on Tuesday afternoon
the party arrived at St. George.
	The health of President Young has improv-
ed very much during the journey. The people
expressed great pleasure at their arrival. They
held a conference of three days commencing
on Friday, May 12th.
	THERE ARE a very great number of stran-
gers passing through and stopping to visit Salt
Lake and see points of interest in and around.
The probability is, being the Centennial Year,
we shall have many visitors during the season;
among some of the late arrivals were Senator
Sharon and party; Mr. Shillebar of Boston the
humorist etc. (Mrs. Partington).
	THIS NUMBER completes the fourth volume
of the EXPONENT. We would say to our friends
and patrons that we had anticipated making
some change, but circumstances will not ad-
mit of it at present. We hope our agents and
those interested in the Woman's paper will be
prompt in renewing their subscriptions for the
fifth volume.
	In regard to its outward appearance, politely
alluded to by one of our profession, we can only
answer that we patronize the home production
of paper, and believe it to be to our best inter-
est, although we acknowledge our taste would
lead us to choose a superior quality; but we
hope ere long the paper made in Utah will
equal that imported from abroad.
	WE HAVE received through the politeness of
R. Matthews & Co., a specimen of writing fluid
which is equally good in color and quality to
any imported ink in the market; indeed we
would prefer it to Arnold's celebrated fluid.
Also a bottle of Jamaica Ginger carefully pre-
pared under the same Chemical Director, Prof.
J. L. Barfoot, well known as a man of science
and skill. We feel safe in saying that it is
as good a preparation as any of the kind we
have ever used, and we take pleasure in recom-
mending to the public these articles prepared
at home feeling it is the duty of the Latter-
day Saints to lend their influence and support
to encourage as far as it is possible every de-
partment of manufacture which will help to
make this people self-sustaining. Otherwise,
it will be impossible to build up Zion for there
is a vast amount of temporal work to be done.
This manufactory also make the famous toilet
sand soap. We wish them success in their no-
ble enterprise and hope they will receive the
patronage of the people.


WOMENS' CENTENNIAL FAIR.

	All those who design furnishing specimens
for the Territorial Fair will do well to forward
soon as convenient--before or by the middle of
June. It is anticipated that the Fair will be
opened on, or before the first of July in the
"Social Hall, S. L. City. Specimens to be
sent to Sister E. R. Snow, Lion House, as
heretofore specified.


IN the San Francisco Mint there are man-
ufactured in the Coiner's Department dur-
ing the year at least $30,000,000, including
gold and silver of every description. Of
this amount the greater part is $20 pieces
or double eagles.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	190


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
				A DEFENSE.

	My object in this short article is to do what
my poor ability can, in taking up the cudgel,
(the pen) in support of my sisterhood. Not
that I would infer for a moment women were
angels—far from it; much less wonld I echo
the prevailing cry in this country, at the pres-
ent time, that "woman's extravagance is ruin-
ing the nation." It is the self-same tale oft
told, that of sneaking behind woman's skirts to
hide their sins. Who has held the reins of
power in this nation, and with despotic sway
crushed woman into littleness, talked of her
"weakness, her frailties, her proneness to fall,
bah! It is sickening. This is man and manli-
ness; women are not accountable; this is man's
creed; but when trouble comes women are at
fault.
	In juxtaposition with woman's jewels, dia-
monds etc., place man's "debts of honor, and
Champagne," and I will venture to say that
they will overbalance by a very considerable
sum.
	When one takes into consideration all the
ways and means men have of spending money
outside of woman's precincts, they are not few
I assure you; betting, horse-racing, Champagne
suppers, and all sorts of specculations in stocks
etc., with many other MANLY amusements
and occupations; woman's dress falls low in the
scale of expenditure.
	Apropos of woman's dress etc. Why do wo-
men dress so elaborately? I would ask the
question, answer it who will. How much in-
fluence can women have in the world without
this outside attraction? Even here at home in
Zion where we profess to live under a better
and higher influence, those (who have eyes)
can see every day enough of this Babylonish
custom to discourage such as are not self-de-
termined enough to face opposition, and do
right let what will transpire. Then what can
be expected of those who cannot look forward
to the future for the reward of self-denial?
These women have been trained to live for ad-
miration, and man sustains it by his own vol-
untary practise. It takes a vast amount of
courage to be economical under such circum-
stances; but notwithstanding, women are ever
more ready to make sacrifices than men.
	If husbands and fathers were more commu-
nicative with their families it would be vastly
to their interest in many instances where fail-
ures occur through extravagance. Wives and
daughters are often kept in total ignorance of
the looked-for emergency, and in the last ex-
tremity are perchance informed of it through
the press, or by indiscreet persons.
	Whether it is pride or fear that makes men
silent towards those who must suffer most un-
der pecuniary embarrassment, I am unpre-
pared to say; but I will say, though I believe
in woman fulfilling every duty and obligation
so far as it is possible for her to understand, I
also believe that a man should allow his fam-
ily to understand his circumstances pecuniarily,
that they may not involve him in embarrass-
ments ignorantly. To indulge a wife or daugh-
ter in luxuries and elegancies which are incon-
sistent to one's resources is as much a fault as
to indulge children to their injury, simply, be-
cause one is too weak to say no, and persist in
the right.
	If men believed women were ther equal part-
ners in the matrimonial union, then they
would be willing surely to give them their
confidence in all matters pertaining to the fam-
ily interest. Long continued custom and false
education have made it otherwise and it will

[Column 2]
take time and untiring efforts to accomplish
this much to be desired purpase.
	There are earnest workers in the field who
with all the sublime and magnanimous cour-
age of heroes are laying the foundation of re-
form; willing if necessary to incur the odium
of the opposite sex, that they may benefit their
own, hoping and praying that ere long men
may see it is for their best interest that wo-
man should become a responsible party.
									EMILE.
	S. L. City, May 10th, 1876.


HUMILITY.

	The word humility as defined in the
English Dictionary is modesty or freedom
from pride. Jesus said, "except ye become
humble as a little child ye can in no wise
enter the kingdom of God." We also have
the promise that if we approach our Heav-
enly Father in humility of heart He will
hear and answer our prayers. Humility
teaches us that if we have wronged any
one we must go to them penitently and ask
their forgiveness. We are taught in this
church to live humbly before the Lord from
day to day. There are people who allow
their pride to over-rule their judgment.
They are so blinded with pride that they
cannot see rightly those things which in
reality are intended for their benefit; they
look upon labor as degrading and beneath
them, they are too proud to become self-
helpful, and scorn those who are seeking to
be self-sustaining. There is a certain hon-
est pride that is necessary to constitute a
truly noble man or woman. We ought
to have dignity enough to conduct ourselves
with decorum, to choose good company and
to preserve our self-respect, by being cleanly
and neatly clad in a becoming manner. I
can assure you, it is neither dress nor fash-
ion but true merit alone, that makes a really
noble woman; one who carries herself cir-
cumspectly, who has the love of God in her
heart; and a love for everything that is great
and good. No real gentleman or lady will
scorn a person because they are poor. What
is more beautiful than a modest, unassuming
girl, one who is thoughtful of others, who
visits the poor, sick or needy, to comfort
and succor them.
	I pray God to bless the daughters of
Zion, with wisdom, and understanding
hearts, that they may live so as to claim all
the blessings that the Saints of God are
heirs to.
					MARY A. SANSOM.
S. L. City.


FLORAL HINTS.
	The landscape gardener of Hartford,
Conn. says the management of lawns in
America require a deeper and richer soil
than England to maintain a continued
green through the summer. Deep tillage
and manuring are the foundations of suc-
cess; the soil should be uniform in texture
and quality to prevent spots. Sow in
freshly mellowed soil, and if there are any
annual weeds sow in autumn that the win-
ter may kill them. Roll in Spring old or
new lawns. Avoid coarse and lumpy man-
ure, and apply as a surface dressing finely.
powdered compost, or a mixture of guano
and superphosphate of lime. Keep the
grass cut short from the first and it will
cause it to grow thick and dense. Never
allow the grass to grow tall to cut for hay.


SPLINTERS

				GENERAL
	Horace Greeley's homestead at Chappa-
gua was burned April 14th; the loss was
small; it was untenanted......A. J. Stuart's 
will left $1,000,000 to Judge Henry Hilton,
and the remainder to his wife except some
small bequests......The Harlem Railroad
Campany will put on ten extra trains daily
between the Grand Central Depot, (New
York City) and Williamsbridge, after May
15......The Centennial Exhibition will not
be open on Sundays......Kentucky is ship-
ping black-walnut to Europe......The small-
pox is prevailing to an alarming extent in
Perkinsville New York......The Irish citi-
zens of Albany will parade through the
streets of Philadelphia July 4th, in an or-
ganization called "Mitchell Guards"......
The establishment of a Chinese laundry, at
Roseburg, Oregon, is causing great excite-
ment there, it is said the Celestials are arri-
ving rapidly......The Mohawk Woolen Mills
were closed three days in respect to the late
A. T. Stewart......The Missouri river is
higher at Burlington, Iowa, than in the
great flood of 1858......Mr. Moody has closed
his labors in New York......Mr. August Bel-
mont, of New York opened his gallery of
paintings on the 25th and 26th of April for
the benefit of the Woman's Centennial
Union......Immense damage has been done
by the overflow of the Missouri river to
railroads and other property......Prarie fires
are destroying the timber lands of West-
ern Texas......The recent census of Phila-
delphia gives a population of 817,448......A
new station has been opened on the Hudson
River Railroad, called "Oscawana," located
between Croton and Crugers.
				PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Scott Siddons sailed from San Fran-
cisco for Sydney, Australia, on the 30th of
March......Miss Braddon the novel writer,
thinks of making a tour in this country and
giving public readings......A plaster cast of
the features of the late A. T. Stewart was
taken directly after his death......Mr.
Charles Reade will be one of the contribu-
tors to the "Belgravia Magazine" under
the new management......President Prado
of Peru arrived at New York City Apr. 11,
he was escorted to his hotel by a delegation
of the most eminent citizens......Hans
Christian Andersen's books, manuscripts,
autographs etc. will be sold at auction in
Copenhagen for the benefit of the "Ander-
sen Children's Home"......Count Favernery,
long Secretary Legation at Washington,
has been appointed French-Minister to Bra-
zil.
				FOREIGN.
	The plauge has again broken out in Asia-
tic Turkey......It is said by leading members
of the Moderado party that Queens' Isabella
and Christina will soon return to Spain and
occupy the Palace of Alauyez......Col. En-
sique Lara is appointed Secretary of the 
Peruvian Legation in London......The ar-
mies of Guatemala and San Salvador are
near each other at Justiapa, the former with
8,000 the latter with 9,000 men......A school
of mines is to be founded in Peru to for-
ward the mining interests of the Republic
......A contagious disease among cattle is 
prevailing in many parts of Europe......It
is rumored that Montenegro has declared
war against Turkey......Russia, Prussia and
Austria have decided to leave the Eastern
question as it is for the present......V. R.
B. E. I. I. are the new Initials of the
Queen—"Victoria Regina Britannia et ln-
dor[--]n Imperatrix......Liverpool, Eng. is to
be supplied with water from Lake Winder-
mere at an enormous cost.


101		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
      IMPROMPTU IDEAS OF HOME.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	"Home, gentle name, I woo thee to my song,
	To thee my praise, to thee my prayers belong;
	Inspire me with thy beauty, bid me teem
	With gracious musings worthy of my theme:
	Spirit of Love, the soul of Home thou art[-]
	Fan with div[---]thoughts my kindling heart;
	Uphold me, bless me to my holy task."

	This subject is one which should interest
every living person; for it is one which has
power to touch the intricate depths of the
human heart. It is worthy a niche in the
immortal temple of Fame.—Nay I am well
aware that the subject has been descanted
upon by the most learned and proficient
writers and poets; and artists have design-
ed, sketched, and illustrated in every vari-
ety of form, phase and surroundings, its
beauties and physique. Nevertheless though
the ground has been pre-occupied, though
the flag of other nations of writers has
floated over it; yet who shall hinder the
free exercise of one's thoughts, and even if
they bear a similarity to another's they are
none the less our own.
	"Prose and verse are allowed to have
some distinguishing differences, at least in
termination."
	When some pretty fancies, of the pleas-
ures or pains of home come crowding upon
the mind, who shall say we may not enter
the same field of labor, and indulge in ran-
dom thoughts, taking our own view of the
homes of the multitudes, with some of the
elements of comfort to be sought by all.
We may bring together a few shreds of
thought which perchance may awaken in
other hearts, feelings and impulses sympa-
thetic with ours, which now lie dormant, and
which, perchance they have not the force to
bring into being and and clothe in words.
	It is not alone wealth or its appendages
that will supply the real substantial ele-
ments of a true home. One will say it is af-
fection, granted that is requisite, there is
another talisman whose absence from his
post will leave home comfortless—it is duty.
If one does not look upon home as a place
in which there is not only pleasure and
peace to be found, but duties to be perform-
ed; then farewell to contentment at home.
These duties and obligations may devolve
more largely upon the wife and mother,
than other members of the household, but
none are exempt, it is a part of all. There
are certain duties in the home relations,
which unfulfilled leave the heart and home
both desolate; affection dwindles to a liv-
ing death, more exquisitely painful to the
sensitive soul, than the physical death of
the body.
	What earthly interest is more sacred to
husband and father than to make his home
the dearest spot on all the earth by adapting
himself to the surroundings of the home-
sphere, and elevating it to the embodied
ideal of the home which all long to rest in
when tired with the bustle, fatigue and ex-
citement of the "work-a-day world."
	Should any person allow themselves to
devote all their energies and time in pur-
suit of any external object or influence so
far as to ignore, or lose their interest in
home life? Who has a better claim to
know something of the SOUL of the man
whose name they bear than the wife and
children?
	The most important questions of the day
(so considered by the world at large) "Re-
[-]or[--], Temperance, The Woman Question,',
as well as many others, all point significantly

[Column 2]
to HOME; and whatever evil transpires is
traced almost invariably to the mother and
the home influence. Then in the name of
justice, reason and common sense, let WO-
MAN be fortified and strengthened by every
possible advantage, that she may be ade-
quately and thoroughly fitted not only to
grace the drawing-room, and manage every
department of her household, but to per-
form with skill and wisdom the arduous
and elaborate work of molding and fash-
ioning the fabrics of which society is to be
woven.
	We are all mortal, and more or less sus-
ceptible to outside impressions, and those
who strive diligently and faithfully to do
their duty, need sometimes a word of com-
mendation and encouragement. There are
a class of women, true hearted, and unap-
preciated, who devote themselves unself-
ishly, soul and body to household duties
ONLY; never allowing themselves pleasure
or recreation outside their domestic avoca-
tions, who live a life of abject slavery, nev-
er seeming to find a sure path out of the
labyrinth of darkness, doubt and uncer-
tainty in which circumstances have envel-
oped them. I will not take time to enumer-
ate causes, they are well-known, and IN-
TEMPERANCE is one of the worst causes;
yet there are many others, too numerous to
mention. I would not draw the picture of
these desolated homes, it is too soul-harrow-
ing—where broken vows and aching hearts
are the result of duties unperformed and
obligations unfulfilled. Such homes are
scattered broadcast all over the land, and to
all who are interested in humanity it is
painful.
	No wonder that sharp-sighted, far-seeing
and high-minded women are "beginning" to
seek out some remedy for the injustice
done their sex. Woman should be suffi-
ciently capable of protecting her true inter-
ests and allow no invasion of her God-giv-
en rights.
	Men are every where willing to acknowl-
edge home is not home without the pres-
ence of WOMAN. Ask the poor out-casts
whom the world turn from in scorn, what
would give them most satisfaction, they
will tell you a home. Then after all is not
one of the most important questions of the
day, the HOME QUESTION?
	About our homes let our best affections
centre, make them attractive to our child-
ren and friends, be courteous and polite to
those of our own household, cultivate cheer-
fulness and good humor; and let the inter-
ests of home devolve upon all, let it be mu-
tually shared, and the burden will be light-
ened; let duty, stands guard, as a sentinel,
whispering to us at all times the obligations
we owe each other. The better in every
respect the homes of the people, so in pro-
portion will society and governments be, for
from these homes must the future rulers of
the nation come.
	S. L. City, May 4th, 1876.


PRAYER

	Prayer, what is it? The mere matter of
form of kneeling down and repeating some-
thing you have said over a hundred times
before, and all the while your mind is oc-
cupied with something else, some enjoy-
ment you have had or going to have, or 
something foreign to that which you are
engaged in; is this Prayer? No, this is
mockery. The poet says, "Prayer is the
soul's sincere desire uttered or unexpress-
ed." then when we pray we must be sin-
cere and pray for things that we need. We
can ask in a few words for all the blessings


we stand in need of; and thank God for the 
blessings of the Gospel and all other things.
There is nothing more pure and angelic
than a prayer when uttered with an earnest
and contrite heart. When we feel discour-
aged or down-hearted we should go to our 
Heavenly Father and ask for strength to
overcome all temptations, and endure all
trials, and when we ask in faith believing,
we will be sure to receive that which is
for our best good, for Jesus said; "ask and
it shall be given." We do not always need
to go to our room to pray, we can pray in our
hearts just as earnest if we are humble and 
live pure lives. Jesus said: "Pray without
ceasing that you enter not into temptation."
How needful that we should do so, for there
are many snares laid to lead us astray, but
if we keep a prayerful spirit we will be sure
to prevail against them. It is by prayer
that we receive the gifts and blessings of
the Gospel. It is by prayer that we receive
the knowledge of whether we are in the 
right channel or not. It is by prayer that
we are enabled to live faithful.
	Then let us be prayerful and ask our Sav-
ior who set us the example of prayer, to
teach us how to approach God in humility
and faith.
					SARAH MCKEAN.


PLAIN WOMEN.

	Among women of exalted rank who have
been wanting in beauty are Margaret of
Sweden, Matilda, Empress of Germany, and
Christina of Sweden. Fulvia, wife of An-
thony, had few personal charms; nor had
Terentia, wife of Cicero, if one may trust
to the majority of historians; but most of
these have found some admirers among bi-
ographers. Neither Anne of Cleves, nor
Catherine of Aragon was good-looking; still
for a while they swayed the fickle heart of
their Bluebeard husband. Queen Anne was
a dowdy, graceless woman in her best days.
Cromwell's wife was plain. When Queen
Anne of Bohemia came to India as a bride,
there was a pageant at Cheapside of a cas-
tle with two towers, from both sides of
which ran fountains of wine; and we are
told that the beautiful girls who blew gold-
leaf in the faces of the king and queen
caused the plain bride to look plainer; yet
she made her way in the good graces of
king and people.
	In France the gay and pleasure-loving,
plain women have gained many laurels.
Madame de Stael is a memorable instance,
though no one was more conscious of her
personal defects. Even her name was a
power in itself. The great Napoleon conde-
scended to be so jealous of her influencethat no persuasion would induce him to al-
low her to return to France. Mademoiselle
de Lespinasse, one of the most fascinating
women of her day, who exercised a mar-
vellous influence on those around her, was
marked with small-pox. Madame Geofirin
was a plain woman. Madame d'Epinay was
neither beautiful nor clever, but most at-
tractive. Madame de Mailly was the plain-
est woman of the Court. Maria Leczinski,
daughter of Stanislaus, King of Poland,
wife of Louis XV., was plain, but interest-
ing; and that famous Palatine Princess, sec-
ond wife of Philip, Duke of Anjou, brother
of Louis XIV., and mother of the Duke of
Orleans, the regent during Louis XV.'s mi-
nority—a woman who exercised more sway
than any of her time—was coarse of fea-
ture, and so ungainly that her large hands
passed into a proverb. She was of mascu-
line habits, clinging to the customs of Ger-
many, and wore a short, close wig like a
man's.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	192


HINTS TO GIRLS.

	An old stager who has been through the
mill, gives the following parental advise to
the girls:
	Take lessons on the piano and learn to
paint and sing, but let your mother do the 
washing.
	Do worsted work, and make nice little
neckties for the heathen, but don't acquire
that mystic art to cook "pork and beans."
	Go to boarding-school and pursue some
French, Spanish and German, but neglect
your good old mother English.
	Flatly deny the soft impeachment that
you are engaged. Treat your beau pre-
cisely as if you were ashamed of him. It 
is complimentary anyhow, to the young
sprig.
	When you laugh, laugh hearty. Your
gold fillings may be seen. It is a card for
the dentist.
	Tell people who are posted, and conse-
quently know better, that you are exactly
nineteen last or next summer, you forget
which. They'll believe it, you know.
	Say naughty things of your rival and
next-door neighbor, and speak disparag-
ingly of Miss Q's nose. But entirely over-
look your own incongruities.
	By all means "tote" a nice little dog af-
ter you on the street. There is a chance of
your being taken for some one else, while it
speaks volumes—for the dog.
	Walk four abreast and keep the centre of
the side-walk, but never for a moment al-
low yourself to be disconcerted. It shows
consideration for the happiness of others.
	Finally, quit being girls by marrying
some bald-headed buffer, with lots of "tin,"
and ruthlessly thrust aside a man of brains
with a becoming competency.—Rural New
Yorker.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Darkness in the Treatment of Small-Pox.—If a
patient in the beginning of the attack, be put in-
a room from which absolutely all light is excluded,
save that of a candle, the effect is to arrest the
disease in the papular or vesicular stage; the skin
between the vesicles is never inflamed or swollen;
the large scabs of matter never form over the face;
there is no intense pain and only trifling itching,
and the smell is either very light or altogether
wanting.
	Celery for the Nerves.—A writer who is famil-
iar with the use of celery says that he has known
several men and women, who, from several caus-
es, had become so affected by nervousness that
when they stretched out their hands they shook
like aspen leaves on windy days, and by a moder-
ate daily use of the blanched footstalks of celery
as a salad they beeame as strong and steady in
limb as other people. He has known people
cured of palpitation of the heart by the use of
celery. Everybody engaged in labor weakening to
the nerves should use celery daily in its season,
and onions in its stead when not in season.
	Cure for Cancer.—I have known several that
have had cancers cured by the following remedy:
—Take ashes (those from red oak bark are the
best) a[-]d get lye that has been filtered through
them twice. Now boil the lye down until it be-
comes as thick as mush and take as much as may
be needed and add six grains of corrosive subli-
mate. Stir it well and let it remain until it is
done blubbering. Now take it off the fire, and let
it stand till it is cool enough to handle with the
fingers. It will be something like grained sugar.
In handling it the hands should be very dry. Now
break it in pieces and put in a glass vial, keeping
it from the air and from all dampness. In ap-


plying it to the cancer, put it on cotton or a sponge
and hold it to the cancerous part, say ten minutes.
The cancer will be killed and come out gradually.
—J. B. W.

	Sleep the Best Stimulant.—The best possible
thing for a man to do when he feels too weak to
carry it through, is to go to bed and sleep for a
week if he can. This is the only true recupera-
tion of power, the only actual recuperation of
brain force. Because during sleep the brain is in
a state of rest, in a condition to receive and ap-
propriate particles of nutriment from the blood
which take the place of those which have been
consumed in previous labor, since the very act of
thinking consumes, burns up solid particles as
every turn of the wheel or screw of the splendid
steamer is the result of consumption by fire of the
fuel in the furnace. The supply of consumed
brain substance can only be had from the nutritive
particles in the blood, which were obtained from
the food eaten previously, and the brain is so con-
stituted that it can best receive and appropriate to
itself those nutritive particles during a state of
rest, of quiet, and stillness in sleep. Mere stim-
ulants supply nothing in themselves; they only
goad the brain, force it to a greater consumption of
its substance, until that substance has been so ex-
hausted that there is not power enough left to re-
ceive a supply, just as men are so near death by
thirst and starvation that there is not power enough
to swallow anything, and all is over.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I feel grateful to my Father in heaven for
His preserving care over me unto this day.
I know that my Redeemer lives, and will
bless all who come unto Him. I know the
promises of God are to the faithful. I de-
sire to make myself useful in helping to
build up the Kingdom of God in the last
dispensation.
	Our Relief Society, here in Moroni is
prospering; the sisters all seem alive to
their duties. We have done a great deal
for those who could not help themselves.
We also have a Young Ladies' Retrench-
ment Association. They seem to have a
desire to do good and to improve in all good
works.
	When I look back and think what I have
endured the thirty-three years that I have
been trying to live the life of a Saint, I
must say that it has been a good school of
discipline for me. When I was in Nauvoo,
and could sit under the sound of Joseph
Smith's voice, I thought it was grand, and
so it was; but we knew but little then in
regard to what would transpire in the last
days.
	Sisters, I exhort you to be faithful in the
church and kingdom of God.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel of
Christ.
						SARAH JOLLY.
	MORONI, SANPETE CO., Feb. 26, '76.


"BLUE STOCKING."—This term is appli-
ed to literary ladies, and was originally con-
ferred on a society of literary persons of
both sexes. One of the most active promo-
ters of the society was Benjamin Stilling-
fleet, the distinguished naturalist and mis-
cellaneous writer, who always wore blue
worsted stockings, and hence the name.
The society was founded in 1760. The
beautiful and fascinating Mrs. Jerningham
is said to have worn blue stockings at the
"conversaziones" of Lady Montague, and
this peculiarity also fastened the name upon
accomplished women.


FLOWERS

	MORAL courage is one of the requisite
elements of success.
	THERE is nothing that so refines the face
and mind as the presence of great thoughts.
	THE violet grows low and covers itself
with its own tears, and of all flowers yields
the sweetest fragrance. Such is humility.
	IT is when to-morrow's burden is added
to the burden of to-day that the weight is
more than one can bear.
	HAPPINESS is a shy nymph; and if you
court her or chase her you will never catch
her; but go quietly on doing your duty, and
she will come to you.
	YOUR disposition will be suitable to that
which you most frequently think on; for
the soul is as it were, tinged with the col-
or and complexion of its own thoughts.
	IF you will not do that which God has en-
abled you to do, how can you expect that He
should do that for you, which of yourself
you cannot do?
	TRIALS teach us our own natures; they
let us see what we are made of; if there are
thorns or ill-weeds in the soil of our hearts
they bring them to the surface.
	WHAT would be wanting to make this
world a kingdom of heaven if that tender,
profound and self-denying love practiced
and recommended by Jesus were para-
mount in every heart?—Krummacher.
	Do not be content with latent goodness.
There is latent heat in the earth, the iron
of a fireless stove; but men may perish
with the cold with such latent heat all
around them. Latent heat warms nobody.
It must be converted, brought out and set
to work upon something for such practical
purpose.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Cream Pie:—One cup of thick sweet cream,
two tablespoonfuls sugar and one egg. Use one
crust underneath.
	Sponge Cake:—Use the whites of ten eggs; one
and one half tumblers of flour, a teaspoonful of
salt; lemon to suit the taste. Bake about thirty-
five minutes.
	Washington Pie:—One cup of sugar, one table-
spoonful of butter, four tablespoonfuls sweet milk,
one half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful cream
of tartar, one cup of flour. Bake in two layers,
with jelly fruit and cream between.
	French Toast:—Beat four eggs very light and
stir them in a pint of milk, slice some bakers-
bread; dip the pieces into the egg, then lay them
in a pan of hot lard and fry brown; sprinkle a lit-
tle sugar and cinnamon on each side and serve hot;
this is a dish almost equal to waffles.
	Cold Slaw:—Cut up the cabbage very fine with
a sharp knife, and sprinkle over it a teaspoonful
salt. For a large dish, a quart or so, use two eggs,
a piece of butter the size of an egg, half a tea-
cup of water and half a teacup of good vinegar.
Beat the eggs whites and yelks together very light,
add the water, vinegar and butter, and put all in a
dish over the fire, stirring it all the time until it
is a creamy thickness. Pour it hot over the cab-
bage, stir up well with a fork and leave it to
cool.


WHY is the letter "o" the most charitable
letter? Because it is found oftener than
any other in "doing good."


193		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.  

	TRAINING the hand and the eye to do
work well, leads individuals to form correct
habits in other respects; and a good work-
man is in most cases a good citizen.
	BE brave always. Misfortune, sorrow and
obstacles call for all the courage of human-
ity; to be brave is to be beneficial; it is in
time of trouble that we most need courage,
for by it we not only strengthen ourselves,
but can help others. The dross of the met-
al is always eliminated by the fire through
which it passes. So should sorrow purify
and strengthen us; they are the bravest
hearts who go to the front.
	IT is very common to meet blind men in
the streets of a Chinese city, but blind wo-
men are seldom seen. "Why is this?"
asked a traveler of an old missionary one
day. "Oh," was the answer, "when a child
becomes blind if a girl, it is almost sure to
die, for no care is taken to preserve the life
of such a worthless creature. A boy can be
taught to do more things for a support, so
he is allowed to live."
	PLATONICS.—Mr. G. Lewes (Geo. Eliot's
husband) says that the common notion of a
Platonic attachment is the affection which
a man has to a girl whom he cannot and
will not marry. What Plato says is, that
the soul goes forth in its search for Beauty
—which seems sentimental enough—but
then Plato identifies Beauty with Truth,
which is not so sentimental. Plato does not
introduce any consideration of sex into his
theory. In the Phaedrus and elsewhere
Plato gives us his notion of matters, and if
any one thinks that Plato's dialogues are
enlightened with much love talk, he can
have done but little in that wilderness of
dialectics.
	THE woman that is a happy wife need
not long to be courted again. There is no
need—she is won. Nor are many compli-
ments necessary. Mutual devotion is an
ever appreciated compliment. Yet, still,
you who are married do not quite forget
those old days which drew you to each oth-
er. Be lovers always. Many people are;
and those who love are safe. The meeting
and parting kiss, the kind look, the appre-
ciative word—never forget these. Never
let marriage degenerate into the common
place. So surely as you do worse will fol-
low; for the husband and wife who have no
tender sentiment towards each other will
become foes.


ENGLISH TITLES:—The lowest rank is
that of a knight and is dignified by the ti-
tle "Sir;" only, it not being hereditary.
Next comes the baronet whose title de-
scends to heirs. Knights and baronets are
not counted as belonging to the nobility,
but only to the aristocracy. The first in the
scale of nobility is the baron, to which rank
most of the English nobility belong. The
viscounts come next, and both viscounts
and barons are known in politics as lords;
earls are higher; then marquises; then
dukes; the last being the highest rank to
which subjects can attain. The younger
sons of dukes, earls and all the sons of sim-
ple barons, claim the prefix honorable.


THE school boy who needs most encour-
agement, generally gets the least. And so
it is the world over. If you owe a poor
man and also a rich one, you will be sure to
pay the rich one first. Of course the poor
one is best able to wait your convenience.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE LIQUOR TRAFFIC IN THE UNITED
STATES.—There are 146,000 drinking sa-
loons; the manufacturers and sellers of
spirituous liquors number about 560,000.
It is estimated that in the saloons there are
5,000,000 daily customers; the 29,000 dis-
tilleries make annually 72,500,000 gallons of
ardent spirits.
	THE forests of Europe as estimated by
Dr. Brown, cover 500,000,000 acres, or
nearly 20 per cent of the surface of the
continent. In British North America 900,
000,000 acres. In the United States, 560,
000,000 acres. In South America 700,000,
000, acres. The total for Europe and Amer-
ica alone is equal to 3 600,000 geographical
miles.


THE ALPHA, is a monthly paper published
in Washington, D. C., by the Moral Educa-
tion Society. Its object is to aid and assist
the world in regeneration. It contains ar-
ticles excellently written on the subordina-
tion of women and "Pre-natal Influence."
These articles are strikingly appropriate to
the object in view of woman's elevation and
advancement, and the individual equality
of sex.


[Column 1]
	THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. [---]in-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to        C.R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake Utah.

	Now Receiving, at
TEASDEL'S,
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
	Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S.P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

	Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
	Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
	Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD. Four
doors below Walker House, and examine our
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
	Wm. H. MILES. Supt.

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
	Wholesale and Retail dealers in
Crockery, China and Glassware,
	TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWAWRE.
		23, MAIN STREET.

[Column 2]
MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
	AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly repon[-]ed to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
Ladie attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.	17, East Temple street.
	TEMPLE OF FASHION.

Z. C. M. I.
	Wholesale and Retail Dealing
	in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDBREAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURE IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	TO THE LADIES!

	TAYLOR & CUTLER
Have just received a large stock of SPRING GOODS of
all kinds, NEW STYLES PRINTS, FANCY DRESS
GOODS, LADIES' NECK TIES, and a full stock
of DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, &c., which we
are selling very cheap. 

	THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
	priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	AT THE TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. RepairingDone. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates
	D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

	LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, sustantia
	Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
	them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take payment, CASH, FLOUR,
	BUTTER and EGGS,
	F. GOSS, Supt.

	EVERY DESCRIPTION
	or
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
	AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

	H. E. PHELPS,
	29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE !
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
	AND
BABY CARRIAGES !
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City

