VOL. 4.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1876.		No. 19.


[For the EXPONENT.
	PRAYER
How sweet to the soul is prayer's holy spell,
Its heart-soothing powers no language can tell,
As up from earth's shadows the soul takes its flight
To dwell for a season in heaven's bright light.

When joy fills our bosoms how sweet 'tis to say,
We thank thee dear Father for life's pleasant way.
For sunlight and moonbeams and all the fair flowers,
That dock with such splendor life's beautiful bowers.

We thank Thee for morning's bright glorious beam
That scatters the shadows from night's weary dream.
For cool shades that screen from the noon's piercing ray
And for the sweet rest of the calm closing day.

We thank Thee for home, for the dear ties that bind
Our hearts in one chain with the good of mankind,
For fond words that cheer amid sorrow and pain,
Like murmuring streams in the desert's wild plain.

And oh when the heart is in anguish laid low,
When moonbeams and sunlight's all shrouded in woe,
'Tis then—"Oh my Father" ascends to the skies,
And weak hands are lifted for help to arise.

And the one in Gethsemane's garden bowed down
Who first bore the Cross and now weareth the Crown,
Lifts up His afflicted, guides on through the night
'Till safely they're moored in the Haven of light.

We thank thee our Father for this precious gift,
While such boon is ours not wholly adrift;
As the compass and star is the mariner's guide,
So prayer and the Savior when sorrows betide.
			HOPE.


A WORD TO THE GIRLS.

	In a previous number of the EXPONEET,
there was a few words of advice to mothers,
to warn their daughters. I have often
wished that I could express my views on
this subject. There are none who can
more fully realize this advice than those
who have grown up daughters. The ques-
tion has often presented itself to my mind,
do our girls realize the precipice on which
they stand, or the danger they are in, when
they encourage the attentions of those who
are not of us? I never see or think of
them but I feel to say girls beware of the
outside elements, and shun them as you
would serpents in your path, for it is not
love they bear you, or yours, but destruc-
tion they would like to see come on the
people of God; and destroy that which some
of our best men have shed their blood for.
	Girls obey your parents in all things; re-
member they have had more experience in
the world than you have; never allow false
ideas to hold you from seeking your moth-
er's counsel, or confiding in her; you will
find all through life, she is the best and tru-
est friend you can have, for your joy will
be her joy, and and your troubles will be
her troubles.
				M. J. R. HAMPTON.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 15th, 1876.


ESSAY ON BLESSINGS.

	WRITTEN FOR THE YOUNG LADIES'
RETRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION OF THE
ELEVENTH WARD.

	All of us are, from time to time, receiv-
ing blessings from our heavenly Father.
Some, certainly, through faithfulness, re-
ceive greater blessings than others; but we
as sisters, having all descended from the


same heavenly parentage, ought at all times
to feel to bless one another.
	I often think how consoling it is, in times
of sickness and trouble, to have a good Lat-
ter-day Saint, one that is filled with the
Spirit of God, come and take you by the
hand and say "God bless you!" It seems
to cheer you up and make you feel truly
that God does bless you.
	When the Lord first gathered His people
to this land, [-]e promised to bless the land
for their sakes, and to make the desert blos-
som as the rose; and He has done so. This
is one of the greatest blessings the Lord
has bestowed upon many of his people, giv-
ing them a home in Zion.
	I know if we always try to do the will of
God, and keep His commandments, He will
continue to bless us; for we are told that
there are great blessings in store for the
faithful. When we live so that we can en-
joy the Spirit of God at all times, we feel
very happy, and feel that we are blessed
above all other people. We are promised
great blessings if we will live for them; but
we all have our weaknesses, and it seems
we cannot overcome them all at once.  But
God is more merciful to us than we are to
one another, and continues to bless us even
though we sometimes err.  And the more
we try to overcome our failings, the more
faithful we are, the greater blessing we shall
receive; for the Lord is always ready to give
us all blessings that are needful for our good
if we will only ask Him in faith.  There
are times when we may ask for something
and the Lord for some wise purpose may
see fit to withhold it from us, but because
His ways are not our ways, neither His
thoughts our thoughts.  He knows what
things we are in need of, and is always
ready to impart them to us.
	May we always live our religion and do
right, that we may enjoy the blessings God
has in store for us.
		RHODA CUSHING.


ADVERTISEMENTS.—The advertisements
in a newspaper are more read than the
thoughtless imagine. They are the map of
a large class of men's capabilities in life.
The man who contemplates doing business
in a distant town takes up the local paper,
and in its advertising columns sees a true
picture of the men he has to deal with, a
complete record of the town—its commerce,
its home trade, the facilities of store keep-
ers, its banks, and in almost every case he
can estimate the character of the men who
are soliciting the public patronage. The ad-
vertising page is a map of the town, a rec-
ord of its municipal character, a business
confession of its citizens, and, instead of
being the opinionated production of one
man, it is freighted with the life thoughts
of a hundred.


MISS Emily L. Taylor, principal of Adam's
Female Academy, is preparing a history of
that institution for the New Hampshire de-
partment at the Centennial; incorporated
in 1823, and so being the oldest female acad-
emy in the State, its history will no doubt
be very interesting.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS MARY E. Wager, for a long time
one of the editors of the Rural New York-
er, and a well known and popular corres-
pondent of several leading journals, was
married lately to Prof. Willian B. Fisher,
of Dickinson College, Pa.
	THE SCHOOL of Design in San Francisco,
of which Mr. Virgil Williams is Professor,
recently gave an exhibition. The first
prize, the Avery gold medal for the best oil
painting, was awarded to Miss Susie Du-
gan, daughter of Mr. T. H. Dugan, formerly
of Boston.
	DR. MARY E. Walker lectured in San
Francisco, Jan. 19th, to gentlemen, the ex-
periment proved that a lady may talk to
gentlemen and meet with perfect civility,
and the large and intelligent audience who
gathered to hear the Doctor's remarks not
only listened attentively but at intervals
warmly applauded them.
	SOME OF the Cincinnati ladies propose to
take a whole room in the new Centennial
building, and to inlay the floor with tiles of
their own painting, and to fresco the walls
themselves. The Hartford ladies propose
that some of their number shall take les-
sons in painting and frescoing in order 'to
follow their example.
	FRANCIS P. Blair, former editor of the
Globe is living near Washington-  He is
eighty-five years of age, and in feeble
health. He speaks gratefully of the assist-
ance he has received from his wife while
editing the Globe. Although only two years
his junior, she still accompanies him in his
horseback rides in summer.
	AT THE Moody and Sanky Revival meet-
ing in New York, one day last week, in the
afternoon, no one was admitted but ladies,
except the male members of the choir, a
few reporters, and the usual detail of police-
men. The audience was such an one as
New York has probably never seen before.
Between 6,000 and 7,000 women were seat-
ed in one room, every grade of society be-
ing represented, and forming a congrega-
tion to be seen few times in the course of
a life.
	ILLUMINATING GAS from cork: to the list
of substances capable of furnishing gas of
good quality cork is now to be added. Re-
cent experiments made in Bordeaux, France,
have given results both economical and sat-
isfactory, and it has been definitely decided
to use the material in the lighting of the
city. Works for burning cork are now in
process of construction. The fragmen[-]s of
cork, principally waste after cutting bottle
stoppers, are distilled in a close retort. The
flame obtained is stated to be whiter and
more brilliant that that of coal gas, while
the blue zone is much smaller and the den-
sity greater.


THE party of young lady teachers who
lately left for Cape Colony, South Africa,
consisting of Misses Anna and Nellie A.
Smith, of Sunderland, Carry Ingraham, of
North Adams, and Emma Landfear, of
New Haven, have reached their destina-
tion.


146		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

	R.S. REPORTS.

MILL CREEK WARD, SALT LAKE CO.,
	Jan. 29, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is at the request of our worthy Super-
intendent, Sister Spencer, that I write a
few lines giving you a brief report of our
association; although I have been silent, we
have been diligent in doing all the good we
could. We hold our meetings monthly in an
upper room of the Ward House, which has
been neatly furnished for the accommoda-
tion of the sisters. Our meetings are gen-
erally pretty well attended and a good spirit
prevails; we have excellent instructions,
from our beloved and honored Superintend-
ent and from the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety who visit us frequently, and also from
the young ladies of the Retrenchment As-
sociation.
	M. H. NORTH,
	Secretary.

	BEAR RIVER CITY, Feb. 8th, '76.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I don't know that you ever have had any
report from us here in our little Ghald[-]a,
(the land between two rivers), and as such I
hope that a few lines will not be without in-
terest to you and your readers
	We have been organized for quite a
length of time into a Relief Society and
enjoy our Association very well. But as
the Spirit of the Lord has moved upon the
presidency of the church to call more es-
pecially upon the young and rising genera-
tion, we had the joyful privilege to enter
into the Retrenchment Society on the 3rd,of
January, A. D. 1876. President William
Neely attended to the organization. Mrs.
Anna Hansen was elected President and
Mrs. Christine Neely and Mrs. Mary Han-
sen first and second Counselors, and Mrs.
Mary Petersen Secretary.
	We are twenty-nine in number, have a
comfortable Meeting-house to meet in and a
meeting every second week and enjoy our-
selves first-rate, and shall all the time do
our best to be worthy of the name of a Re-
trenchment Society in the very spirit and
meaning thereof.
	The EXPONENT is read with great inter-
est among us.
	Yours in the Gospel,
	ANNA HANSEN.

	CHARLESTON, WASATCH, Feb. 5th, 1876.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I thought perhaps it would be gratifying
to your numerous readers to hear some-
thing from this out-of-the-way place, as it is
very seldom it is represented in your paper.
Our Relief Society is in a flourishing condi-
tion considering the many disadvantages
which we labor under; our settlement be-
ing scattered, which makes it very incon-
venient for the sisters to meet especially in
the stormy weather. A more energetic per-
son than our President Mrs. Emma Brown
it would be hard to find, she is indeed per-
severing under difficulties which would dis-
courage an ordinary mind. If there is a
case of suffering or destitution she is ready
with open hands to relieve the poor and sick
as she has proven in a number of instances.
A partial reorganization has been made and
a united feeling prevails; and we will strive
to live our religion more faithfully in the
future.
	We have received in the Society $145,00.
Disbursements $120,00. Remaining in the
Treasury, $25,00.
	SINA MURDOCK Secretary.

[COLUMN 2]

	Eighth Annual Report of the Relief So-
ciety of the 17th Ward.
Total amount donated to the so-
	ciety for the fiscal year.................$322 93
Total amount disbursed to needy
	for fiscal year,..........................	341 35
Cash remaining in treasury,.............	9 05
Order, ..............................................	2 00
Merchandise,....................................	56 27
At interest,........................................	483 00
Amount of articles sold during
	year,..........................................	65 75
Amount given to Sister Pratt for
	her studies,................................	43 50
Amount given to purchase seats
	for school-house,.......................	637 30
	Bro. John Pack having generously do-
nated a building lot worth $1000, we pro-
pose to put a house upon it, for the use of
the Society.
	MRS. G. A. ALDER, Sec.
	MRS. H. DOREMUS, Treas.

	MANTUA, BOX ELDER CO., Feb. 1, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Perhaps a few lines from this place would
not be out of the way, therefore, I will at-
tempt to give you an account of our Relief
Society, but must confess that we have
nothing to boast of.
	We have since the organization of our
Society, elaborated a capital to the amount
of three hundred and eighty-seven dollars,
out of which $27 has been donated to the poor,
$142 has been paid toward the Emigration,
$170, is partly on hand and partly lent to
needy persons for a short time, the balance,
$48, is in the way of ladies' hats, artificials
and trimmings, made by ourselves for which
there is a ready sale.
	We intend after a little to have a shop or
workhouse built, wherein our sisters will
manufacture straw hats, artificial flowers,
trimmings, breakfast shawls, nubias, hoods,
neckties, scarfs and such other articles, as we
can make both for ladies and gentlemen.
	The sisters have a determination to fo
low out the counsel and instructions re-
ceived from time to time from our President
Br. L. Snow, among others to let our adorn-
ment be the workmanship of our own hands,
to patronize home production, and to buy
nothing from Babylon that we can possibly
do without. One of our resolutions is to
dress neatly and in a becoming manner, not
indulging in foolish fashions; but create
our own fashions, such as will conduce to
our health and comfort.
	We meet together once a week to bear
our testimony to the thngs of the king-
dom, and to talk over our own affairs in
general. I can truly say that union and a
good spirit prevails among the sisters, who
are always ready to meet for worship or for
work, and we trust in the God of Israel, to
crown our feeble efforts with success, that
we, united with our husbands and brethren,
may forward His design here on the
earth.
	We were very much edified and instruct-
ed by Sister Eliza R. Snow and others,
while on their visit to us last summer.
Hoping that we may ever follow their coun-
sel and example, is the desire of your sis-
ter in the new and everlasting covenant.
	MARYRETHE KELLER.

	ROCKVILLE, KANE CO., UTAH.
		Feb. 14, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have lately reorganized our Relief
Society, and have also had established in
this place the Young Men's Mutual Im-

[COLUMN 3]

provement Association, and a Young La-
dies' Retrenchment Association, and I be-
lieve that a great deal of good will come of
these societies. The sisters all seem to be
alive in the work, and are doing all they
can to assist the brethren in rolling on and
building up the kingdom of God. We never
have had the pleasure of seeing many of
your very interesting papers, but we do not
intend to be without them again as long as
we can get means to pay for them. We are
living in an isolated little hamlet in the
mountains, for which we ever feel to be
thankful, as we can live our religion with-
out fear or molestation. As our time is very
much occupied by family duties and other
matters, we must necessarily be short with
our letters, but will send you a report of our
progress and prosperity anon.
	Yours in the Covenant,
	FANNIE P. SLAUGHTER,
	Secretary, Relief Society.

	PINE VALLEY, UTAH,
		Feb, 8, 1876.
DEAR EDITOR:
	On the 2nd, day of December, 1875, the
young ladies of Pine Valley were organized
into a Retrenchment Association with the
the following officers:
Miss Celestia Snow,		President,
	"	Ann J. Bryce,
	"	Mary M. MEEKS,
	"	Julia A Keele,		}Counselors,
	"	Sarah A. Bracken,
	"	Vilate Burgess,
Miss Mary L. Snow Secretary, and Miss
Cleopatra Burgess Assistant Secretary. We
meet once in two weeks, open our meeting
with singing and prayer. We have thirty-
four members enrolled. The society takes
the EXPONENT, and we occupy our time in
reading from its columns, and also from the
Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine and
Covenants, and in speaking to each other of
the things of the Kingdom. We have ta-
ken a vote in our meeting to refrain from
round dancing. We were very much pleas-
ed and interested with the instructions of
Sister E. S. Barney while on her visit south.
That we may be able to follow her advice is
our earnest desire.
	Yours respectfully,
	MARY L. SNOW, Secretary.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	INJUSTICE is very hard to bear. Yet we
must all learn to expect it, and to suffer it
as calmly as we can. To have our best deeds
turned and twisted into evil ones, to have
our acts and words utterly misrepresented;
to have those turn cold to us for whom we
have always felt the warmest friendship, is
only the fate of humanity.

	LIVING TOO FAST.—In our day, both
married and single persons live too fast. A
bachelor now has need of an income such
as would once have satisfied a man with a
family; and the husband and father requires
for his single household the means which
would have twenty years ago supported two
families, if not three. Daughters are sent
to fashionable schools at an enormous cost,
there to learn extravagance, and, in short,
to become fitted for anything but to become
the wives of poor men. Sons are ruined
with unlimited pocket-money, late hours,
and almost total absence of paternal control.
Thus we not only waste our estates, but per-
petuate the vice in our children. In every
way we are living too fast.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	147


LINES,

ADDRESSED TO MRS. E. A. WHITNEY S.
L. CITY, ON THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF
HER BIRTH-DAY.

Where'er, Dear Friend, on earth I roam,
	Tho on the land or on the sea,
My inlod, oft to my "mountain home"
	Reverts to "loved ones" there, with thee.

And, as familiar scenes I trace
	Around my home, with friends most dear,
I always meet one precious face,
	That beams with love my heart to cheer.

A face that wears affection's smile,
	True index to the heart within—
A peaceful heart, devoid of guile—
	A heart that grieves to witness sin.

A heart that fourscore years, but five,
	Has ever throb'd for others' woes—
Rejoiced when truth and virtue thrive—
	A heart from whence affection flows.

In heaven above, the righteous find
	True recompense for deeds of worth;
And there awaits a husband kind
	To welcome thee from scenes of earth.

And there with him, who waits for thee,
	To welcome thee to peaceful rest—
A rest from earthly sorrows free,
	With queenly robes, with heaven's blest.

This feeble token, worthy Friend,
	As birthday gift, I send to thee,
And as your fervent pray'rs ascend,
	Remember, O remember me.

	ELDER ISAAC GROO.
Sydney, Australia, Dec. 26th, 1875.


[Column 1]
HOW TO RESIST TEMPTATION.

	WRITTEN FOR THE YOUNG LADIES RE-
TRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION OF THE 13th
WARD.
	In complying with our President's re-
quest, I hope the Lord will bless me with
His spirit, so what I write will be benefi-
cial to myself as well as to the rest. I
would like to say a few words about tempta-
tion. In the prayer given us for a model
by our Savior, one sentence always lays
with force on my mind. It is this: "Lead
us not into temptation:" Mark, it says par-
ticularly, "Lead us not into temptation,"
showing that sometimes we are tempted for
a righteous purpose. How can that be?
Did you ever read in the Doctrine and Cov-
enants where it tells that a certain man was
delivered over to the buffetings of Satan.
What was the cause of this? Because he
had transgressed the law. Therefore, when
we are delivered over to temptation, we are
either tried so that we may prove to angels
and men that we will stand firm, or else
we have transgressed the law. We may be
tempted while we are doing our best, but
unless we yield to it, it can do us no harm.
Of course as long as Satan roams the earth,
he will endeavor to lead us astray in every
direction, still we must learn to resist his
evil promptings. For this purpose we are
placed here; to keep our Second Estate; to
overcome the world, the flesh and the Dev-
il. And how important is our every step
here to make, or to mar our whole lives
hereafter. Some things may seem trifles
here, but their influence over our future,
can scarcely be comprehended, unless looked
at by the light of revelation. Satan will
only be bound by being shut out from the
hearts of the Saints; and it is in our gov-
erning ourselves in small things, that we
are enabled to overcome great temptations.
When the Evil One finds us invulnerable on
one point he ceases to tempt us there.
Hence when we pray to be kept from temp-
tation, we pray to keep the law in every
particular. We must strain every nerve to

[Column 2]
overcome our weaknesses. How much do
you suppose it availeth Lucifer to tempt
President Young? Very little indeed. We
should try and live so that we too should
have a coat of mail impervious to the shafts
of the enemy. In saying strain every nerve
to do right, I would like to explain how to
resist temptation in a few instances.
	Did you ever notice the different influen-
ces that surround different persons? To il-
lustrate: we, all of us, I presume, are ac-
quainted with one or more who are not Lat-
ter Day Saints. In meeting them on the
street or at our homes, are we not impelled
to talk of balls, parties, and books (gener-
ally novels) we have read? Again, when
we meet one of the "girls," does not our
conversation unconsciously turn on the light
current topics of the hour. The last sensa-
tion, the coming theatre, Mrs. John Smith's
new bonnet, and "how cruel it was of Tilda
Ann to play off on Adolphus." On the oth-
er hand when we meet some good Latter
Day Saint, do we not, unintentionally per-
haps, speak of the meeting we attended
last Sunday, and how well Bro. So and So
spoke? These, although we may not realize
it are the corresponding influences that ac-
company people. Thus we may see we
should cultivate the society of the Saints,
for, from always talking on these frivolous
subjects we make them our study, so as to
be able to talk more fluently about them,
and so eventually they come to be our every
day thoughts. This is one of the ways
Satan has of leading us out of the line of
our duty. We meet our outside friends,
and are so cordially invited to call and
see them, and they treat us so well and are
so agreeable that we go again and so on.
	Another thing I wish to touch upon, is
reading novels. I used to be in the habit
of reading a great many but since I have
been re-baptized I have quit it altogether.
I consider that it is as hurtful to the mind,
as drinking tea and coffee is to the body.
And one of the principal rules of the Unit-
ed Order is, that we will improve our time.
And I think that our time is worse than
wasted in this evil practice. It seems to
me more hurtful than visiting outside ac-
quaintances. We have all realized the dis-
satisfied, discontented feeling that immedi-
ately follows reading a novel. Very often we
neglect our duties or studies to finish them,
and sit up half the night besides; and
when we are through, we resolve we won't
read another in a hurry. Do you suppose if
this habit did us no harm it would effect us
thus? Why no! Of course not. Not only
this, but life is too real, too earnest to spend
in reading such trash.
	Perhaps you will think, "well I can do noth-
ing to-day so I will just read this one story;"
but resist the temptation, and instead select
one of our Church books, and if you presist
in your determination to let the novels alone,
this morbid craving will leave you. And in
its place will be a freedom that is indescrib-
able, and you will take a pleasure in read-
ing good solid books that you never can
while under this "novel yoke." Believe
the words of one who strove honestly and
prayerfully to break up this evil habit, and
feels that through the Spirit of God, she has
come off conqueror, and enjoys the possess-
ion of a peaceful conscience in this particu-
lar. Now girls you will have more time to
attend meetings if you read fewer novels.
Do try and let them alone and realize the
blessing from it, for there's a blessing fol-
lowing obedience to every commandment
of God. And he has commanded us through
his prophet to quit this ruinous practice.
	I would like to say a great deal more, but

[Column 3]
I am so full of thoughts myself, that I am
rather churlish of saying much to others.
But that is the way we improve I suppose,
each one exhorts the rest to keep the law,
and let us endeavor to keep it more faith-
fully at the same time ourselves.
					SALOAME.


A GOOD BEGINNING.

	There are many good and noble resolu-
tions made by the great majority of people
very frequently, but the effort of putting
them into operation is delayed from time to
time until they are forgotten or all interest
is lost in them, and therefore no good is ev-
er derived from them. Some persons, there
are too, who continually have so many good
resolutions in theory but fail to put them in-
to practice because they attempt to perform
them all at once, and reach no real benefi-
cial results from any. But the greatest im-
portance in all things is to take the first step,
to make a beginning. Remember in all
things, if you do not begin, you will never
come to an end. The first weed pulled up
in the garden, the first seed in the ground,
the first shilling put in the savings bank,
and the first mile traveled on a journey, are
all important things; they make a begin-
ning, and thereby a hope, a promise, a
pledge, an assurance that you are in earn-
est with what you have undertaken. How
many a poor, idle, erring, hesitating outcast
is now creeping and crawling through the
world who might have held up his head
and prospered, if instead of putting off his
resolutions of industry and amendment, he
had only made a beginning!
	If you intend to reform an obnoxious
habit, make a firm beginning; if you wish
to do a good act begin at once, for no one
can be too early in a good work.


WOMAN'S WRONGS.

	Although the condition of woman has
materially improved, it is still far from
what it should be. She is still hampered
with social fetters, still enslaved, still ig-
nored the right of self maintenance co-
equal with man. She is still debarred the
privilege of living, unless at a sacrifice of
self-respect, in the prostitution of the no-
blest traits of her nature. If she is will-
ing to work, she discovers few avenues of
employment open. Man has monopolized
nearly all, and she must compete with him
in the battle for existence. Strong though
she may be in heart, her tender nature is
illy fitted to cope with the stronger attri-
butes of her masculine rival, and she is gen-
erally compelled to quit the field, and eith-
er starve, sell herself in public, or under
the guise of marriage, immolate her wo-
manly purity. Truly, woman has many
wrongs, but the greatest of all is the diffi-
culties she encounters in earning an honest
livelihood."		MARY ANN.
—The Gem.


"HE that can apprehend and consider
vice, with all her baits and seeming pleas-
ure, and yet abstain, and yet distinguish,
and prefer that which is truly better, he is a
true wayfaring Christian. I cannot praise
a fugitive, form cloistered virtue, unexer-
cised and unbreathed, that never sallies out
and seeks her adversary, but steps out of
the way when that immortal garland is to
be run for not without dust and heat."—
John Milton.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	L. GRENNE RICHARDS,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS.	}Editors

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $3.00. per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. MARCH 1, 1876.


FORETHOUGHT.

	It is not the easiest thing in the world to look
away into the misty future, and contemplate
just where a decided course in life must lead to,
or the exact means to be employed in gaining
certain ends. Nor is such careful consideration
at all times pleasing. But easy or not, pleasing
or otherwise, this looking ahead is one of the
most important steps in the road to success;
and one too, most commonly neglected.
	These facts are not confined to any class of
individuals, or to any country; they are gener-
al; or else the world's record would show fewer
accidents and failures in all departments known
to the pursuits of human ambition.
	There are times in almost every life when
"the wheel of fortune" seems to become so
clogged that farther attempts at progress are
apparently futile. When the human heart is
so crushed and helpless beneath the weight of
trying circumstances that it feels itself the
most worthless, unenviable thing on earth. In
undergoing such an afflicting ordeal, how nec-
essary it is to be able to look ahead and calcu-
late with accuracy. Some times the best and
only thing to be done is to stand still and await
the issue. But how many there are who have
failed to acquire the self-control which would
enable them to wait calmly the progress and
development of events; or the foresight which
would be to them a covincing power, an assur-
ance that their patience would be rewarded!
	How many evils might be averted by a little
sound forethought! How many serious mis-
takes would be avoided if the perpetrators only
learned to calculate beforehand!
	What loving, but care burdened mother,
would ever tell her boy to "quit his playing in
the house and go along out of her way!" if she
calculated what might be the result? Would
she speak in any such way if she thought her
words would sink too deep into the little, ten-
der heart, leaving a scar that could never be ef-
faced? A wound, the smarting of which would
cause the child to think, "Mother does not care
where I go so I do not trouble her, and I'll go
where I like and with whom I choose and do 
as I please!" Would she ever drive her little one
from her presence for one moment if she thought
that all her love and faithfulness in after years
could not win him back and keep him by her?
No, indeed! If mothers learned to calculate
in time, no pains would be spared to establish
the most entire and steadfast confidence be-
tween their children and themselves; never
would one word be uttered that could serve in
the least degree to form a barrier, or stay the
upwelling fountain of earth's most unselfish
love.
	If a young man should well consider the fact
that in taking an occasional glass of wine he is

————————————————————

liable to be drawn on, little by little, to become
a miserable sot, would he ever touch a drop?
No, he would turn from the temptation as from
a venomous reptile! Yet there never lived an
habitual drunkard who became such in one day.
There probably never lived one who calculated
at the beginning that he would ever fall so low,
or so disgrace himself and his parentage. 
	Does a chaste and pure-minded girl ever suf-
fer herself to be lured into merely flirting— per-
haps with a man whom she knows to be a little
dishonest in some respects, but who is enter-
taining as a social companion and fascinating as
an admirer—with the expectation that he will
finally lead her to shame and ruin? Oh no!
Yet it often happens so, to girls who, a few
months earlier in life, woul have believed such
a dreadful thing impossible.
	The suicide or the murderer would, doubtless,
have shuddered at the thought of so fearful a
crime, a year or two before its perpretation.
	The Latter-day Saint who refuses to yield
obedience to the voice of the Lord in a very 
small matter, has often no thought of stepping
entirely aside and denying the Faith. But un-
less penitence follows, and forgiveness is ob-
tained for the offense, darkness is likely to in-
crease in the mind of the individual, until the 
Spirit of God is positively withdrawn.
	These, and nearly all mistakes, result from a
want of calculation, or from this important 
faculty being misapplied. The value of wise 
and careful forethought cannot be estimated.


[Column 1]
		COURAGE FOR WOMEN.

	It is absurd for any person to assert they have
no influence, and that it is of no consequence
to the world what character they sustain, or
what course they pursue as an individual; that
others do not look to them, and they are not
responsible for any good or evil that may trans-
pire. 
	It is impossible to ignore the effects of the
bearing of individual character and life upon
society. Many instances are known, where
the sinful practice of one person has so diffused
itself as to cause many to suffer the effects of
that sin. And on the contrary, good is also
dispensed to those who partake its influe[-]ce
	If there were more brave men and women,
who would not suffer themselves to be dis-
heartened, but would cultivate that strength
of character and nobility of purpose to rise su-
perior to all obstacles in their pathway of life,
then, indeed, from their powerful influence and
practise, we might look for reform; for a better
and purer state of civil society. Courage and
endurance are necessary. Every person should
possess a vast amount of fortitude; it is as es-
sential to woman, in the nineteenth century,
as for the leader of an army. Are they not
striving to battle with CUSTOM, the tyrant who
rules with a rod of iron, and whose sway has
been so even and uninterrupted that it will re-
quire not only time, but a union of strength to
break the formidable rod to which the genera-
tions of the past have yielded willing obedi-
ence?
	In this, the dawning of the grand Centen-
nial year of America, there should be a free-
dom of right unrestrained, which should per-
meate every true man and woman. How glo-
rious would be the Record of America, if in
this year, she would accord to woman equal
with her brother, the privileges guaranteed by
the impartial framing of the laws of the CON-
STITUTION.
	Woman is held responsible for the character
of her offspring, and for many of the evils
which prevail in socie[-]y, yet she is not al-
lowed any voice or influence in remedying these

[Column 2]
flagrant evils, unless she can exert it through
the powers of [-]ascination of character, or con-
versation.
	To be sure, woman m[-]y, and does. accom-
plish much by personal influence and purity
of character, in her home and among her asso-
ciates, yet there is so much evil that is coun-
tenanced in society, in circles large and small,
that she must wage a perpetual warfare if she
would maintain pure principles and promote
good.
	How many wives and mothers there are
without any sympathy, save such as their suffer-
ing sisters can accord, and yet they must not be
allowed the privilege allotted to the meanest
and most debased of the other sex, in making
and sustaining the laws under which they
live.
	There are thousands of married women in
the United States, who would be much better
off if they had no husb[-]nd; a source of contin-
ual annoyance, dragging them down by their
vileness and intemperance; yet they are com-
pelled to support this miserable existence, or
perhaps involve themselves in greater difficul-
ties. The general exclamation is—these women
are to be pitied; but of what use is pity that
reaches no farther, that extends no real help,
that opens no way of escape?
	Woman has been the sufferer from this ter-
rible and crying evil INTEMPERANCE, and she
ought to have the privilege of using some great
er influence towards suppressing it than can
ever be accomplished through fireside instruc-
tion, home education, the lecture room or the
pen. Take courage, woman, your time ap-
proaches. Trust in God, who heareth the [-]ries
of His daughters and who will assuredly ans-
wer prayer.
	The dawning of a brighter day approaches
and already some tok[-]ns appear, some faint
glimmering of the light, that will herald in the
morning of liberty, freedom, and equal privi-
leges to man and woman, to brother and sister,
to universal humanity.


SEVERAL VALUABLE communications are
laid over until next issue for want of space,
also items of Home Affairs worthy of note.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	OUR TERRITORIAL Legislaters have occa-
sion to feel more satisfaction over the results of
their labors this year than they enjoyed over
the last former session, when Gov. Woods had
the privilege to veto all their enactments. Gov.
Emery is apparently very well pleased with
their proceedings, and approved most of them.
	THE "JUVENILE Instructor" has entered
upon its eleventh year; it is the only children's
paper published among the Latte-day Saints;
and is really an INSTRUCTOR in the true sense
of the word, and should be read by every child
in Utah. It would be no loss of time for par-
ents to read the little paper too, and intelligent
mothers should take pleasure in writing for it.
	THE ENTERTAINMENT by the Sunday School
Musical Union, on the evening of Feb. 21st,
was a most gratifying success. But the farce
"As like as two peas," which concluded the
entertainment, although well rendered by the
performers, was certainly unhappily chosen.
In our opinion, something more amusing, more
instructive and less demoralizing in its nature
should always be placed on the boards at the
Salt Lake Theatre. But more especially should
this subject be carefully considered on such an
occasion, when it is expected that the greater
portion of the audience will be composed of
children.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	149


AN ADDRESS.
TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE 17TH
	WARD, ON THE 8TH ANNIVERSARY OF
	      THEIR ORGANIZATION

	Eight years, burdened with their joys and
sorrows, sunshine and storms, bringing life to
some and death to others, have flitted away and
are hidden from view in the dark sea of the
past.
	As a Relief Society, we have moved slowly
along; alleviating the sufferings of the poor,
and teaching those whose hearts were weighed
down with woe and sorrow, to look upward to
the Giver of Life, and have told them of Jesus
of Nazareth ever meek and lowly, whose path
we have essayed to follow, and in whose foot-
steps we have tried to walk.
	Eight years ago, after our Society was par-
tially organized by our beloved Bishop Nathan
Davis, we were told by him to "go forward in
every good work, and we had his blessing con-
tinually;" and I believe that each one who has
faithfully attended to the duties of the Relief
Society, no matter in what capacity, can certi-
fy that blessings have attended us, both in our
labors and to ourselves. In doing good to
others, we ourselves have been benefitted.
	"Cast thy bread upon the waters, and after
many days it shall return." So spake He of
old, so that not only will we feel blessed in the
work of our Saviour, but for ourselves we are
laying up treasures in the mansions of our Fa-
ther, "Where moth nor rust can enter, nor
thieves break through and steal."
	In the death of Sister Felt, our Treasurer,
our Society sustained a heavy loss. O how can
I describe the anguish that we felt, when the
terrible foreboding came to us that we should
lose her. Then for the first time we realized
how firm and true a bond of friendship existed
in our Society; that we were indeed of one fam-
ily, daughters of one Father; and when we
gazed upon her, robed for her burial, so white,
so still, so cold and beautiful in her dreamless
sleep, our hearts, although torn with anguish,
acknowledged that Father had released her
from her life mission, and called her home; no
more to sigh and sorrow, nor grow weary with
her cares, but to fill a higher calling, in the
home of her first childhood.
	The lesson to us is, to weave our web of life
so that if our departure come suddenly, the
thread may be picked up by another, and so
on until all is completed that our Father has
decreed.
	It has been our mournful duty to tend the
sick and dying, to robe the dead and lay them
away with all that ready hands and willing
hearts could do for them.
	O, who shall say that the mission of woman
is not exalted? What true woman, with her
hand once holding the plough, will turn or
shrink into by and forbidden paths? Our mis-
sion is divine! To aid the poor, to nurse the
sick, and bid the dying look to our Father and
God in the day of their trial, is the duty of
every woman.
				MRS. G. A. ALDER.


SPANISH FORK, Feb. 22, 1876.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	In taking up my pen to write to your paper,
I feel my incompetency as a writer. There is
a passage of Scripture which says "Let your
light so shine that others, seeing your good
works, may glorify God." The Saints in this
place, both old and young, are carrying out the
counsel of our beloved President Brigham
Young, in regard to the hours of dancing
	Realizing that we are a highly favored peo-
ple, living in the light of immediate revela-


tion, receiving counsel and instruction from
the lips of inspired prophets and apostles; this
is the secret which the Gentile world cannot
solve. Judging the Saints from their own
standpoint, they call the obedience of the
Saints blind obedience, or one-man power.
Bible believers, forgetting that the Scriptures
say "My sheep know my voice and they follow
me, and he that heareth you heareth Me." The
Saints feel that Brigham Young is God's vice-
gerent here on earth, consequently are not
ashamed to honor all laws or counsels given
through him; even dancing in daylight, con-
trary to our old habits and customs.
	We are the children of light, therefore let us
walk in the light, and set an example worthy
of imitation.
	Our Relief Society held the first dance ac-
cording to counsel, on the 18th of January, un-
der the sole management of the ladies; Miss
Maria Finch, as floor-manager, discharged her
duties in a business and ladylike manner, to
the satisfaction of all; our bishop pronounced
the benediction at 10 p. m., all feeling well.
	The Bishop also had a party, en the 7th, for
the benefit of the missionaries. Our Young
ladies had a party on the 4th, the benefits de-
rived to be appropriated for literary purposes.
	I am happy to say that our young men are
also cheerfully taking hold. They held their
second Hunting-party-dance yesterday, com-
mencing at 2 p. m. They have killed, in two
days hunt, over 1000 rabbits, which was really
necessary, as they had become very destructive
to the crops. They saved all the pelts.
	As a Ward, we are striving to carry out the
counsels of those who are placed over us in this
kingdom.
	Round-dances are now things of the past with
our young folks.
	Ever praying for the prosperity of Zion,
		Yours in the covenant of peace,
			MARY FERGUSON.


[Column 1]
	OF COURSE THIS COMES FROM
		BOSTON.

	Governor P——, though a most excellent
man, who administered the affairs of his
State successfully for two years, was consid-
erably given to making himself agreeable,
especially to politicians in rank above his
own. The Governor had been attending a 
college Commencement last season, where
he had received all the honors due to a Gov-
ernor, and he felt decidedly pleased with
himself, and disposed to be facetious. There
were two doctors of divinity and several
alumni in the Governor's company. The
two D. D.'s were very agreeable, and made
it a point of laughing at all the Governor's
sallies, as many people think they are
bound to do toward people of rank.
	The Governor and party were just aboard
of the train for home. The morning was a
hot one, and the cars were full. When the
Governor and party were seated, the seats
on the shady side of the car were all taken
except one, and on this was a valise—rather
seedy-looking, like what a farmer might
carry-which, according to the rules of
railway travel, claimed the seat for its own-
er. Just before the train started, a lady
came in, showily dressed, evidently of the
"flashy" stamp, and blustered about consid-
erably because she must sit in the sun.
The Governor is a very gallant man, and
takes much pride in his favor with ladies.
He got up, and crossing over to the lady,
said, "Madame, why do you not sit in this
seat? It must be very uncomfortable to sit
in the sun."
	The lady replied that she saw by the va-
lise that the seat was taken.

[Column 2]
	"But," said the Governor, as he took the
valise by the handles, "it won't hurt the gen-
tleman's valise to sit in the sun." Then hold-
ing it up in sight of all, and with a signifi-
cant smile added, "and we hardly think it
would hurt the gentleman himself."
	The lady took the seat thus vacated, and
the Governor put the valise into a seat on 
the sunny side of the car. The two D. D.'s
thought it was the best thing they ever
heard—the Governor's joke, "It won't hurt
the gentleman's valise to sit in the sun,
and we hardly think it would hurt the gen-
tleman himself;" and they nudged each
other and pretended to laugh very heartily.
Of course the Governor was pleased: it is
always pleasant to know that our own wit
is appreciated.
	But it happened that the valise belonged
to a gentleman who held a responsible posi-
tion in Washington, also a graduate of the
collage, who had been home to Commence-
ment. He was a tall, noble specimen of
humanity, as noble as he looked, who would
never play the sycophant to a king, nor im-
pose upon a beggar. He was only a few
seats ahead, where he had stepped to speak
with a friend, and he had heard every word
of the Governor's joke. Soon he came
back, glanced at the seat which held the
lady and her baggage, when some one point-
ed across, and he quietly took the seat with
his valise.
	The Governor saw at once that he was a
gentleman, and knew that he must have
overheard his remarks, but he was a stran-
ger to his Excellency. The gentleman, how-
ever, knew the physiognomy of the Gover-
nor very well, though he was not personally
acquainted. The Governor learned forward
and asked of a gentleman,
	"Do you know who that gentleman is?"
	"That is the Hon. J—— D——, from
Washington, Commissioner of	—."
	Evidently the Governor had heard too
much. He dropped his chin, and his face
looked blank. The two doctors of divinity
also saw that their laugh had not been well
put: they had played the sycophant on the
wrong man. The Governor saw his posi-
tion, and thought the best thing for him to
do was to make an apology. So he asked a
college friend for an introduction. The
gentleman arose, and Governor P—— was 
formally introduced to Commissioner D——.
After the usual hand-shaking was over, the 
Governor said,
	"Commissioner D——, I owe you a hum-
ble apology for removing your valise, and
my unguarded remarks. I hope—"
	Commissioner D——, broke him off short,
and replied:
	"Governor, no apology is needed, nor
will any be accepted. I always yield my
seat to ladies, and my valise to hackmen;
but among gentlemen I prefer to handle my
own baggage."—Harper's Magazine.


AN English lady was declaiming against
"the stupidity of the foreigners" at a
Parisian Hotel. "My dear," said the hus-
band reprovingly, "you forget that we are
foreigners." "What nonesense Edward!"
replied the wife, "of course they are for-
eigners because we're English.


HELLOA, Pat! "Whats the matter? Is
there any one ill here?” said a gentleman
to an Irish laborer, who was engaged in lay-
ing tan in front of Fishmongers' Hall, London.
"No, sir," replied Pat, "there's nobody ill
just now, but there'll soon be a few fit pa-
tients for the hospital. There's to be a
moighty fine dinner here this evening."


150		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			﻿For the Exponent.
		TO HAL.
			[handwritten] Susa Y. Gates
	Your response to my protest, published in
the EXPONENT, I read with interest, and
really must give you credit for a fair share
of discrimination.
	Your surmises with regard to my charac-
ter and propensities were correct in the
main, though on some points you were in
error.
	You say I am "one of those girls" etc.
Now, although I signed "Old Maid," as a
Non de plume, I really do not consider my-
self so antiquated, as, from this fact, some
might be led to infer: and for fear you may
have formed an incorrect idea of my age,
personal appearances, &c., I will give a brief
description of myself and a synopsis of my
life, so far.
	I am rather above medium height, my
exact altitude being five feet eleven and a
half inches. (I hope you admire tall people:
this is leap year you know.) My complex-
ion is light, very light, and appears quite
clear when viewed by dim lamp-light, or
through a thick spotted veil: hair and eye-
brows of a deep amber tint. I have heard
of people calling my hair red, but I just put
that down to malice, knowing that it was
no such thing, but that they envied me my
golden auburn tresses. But to go on with
the description. Eyelids of a deep rose
tint, fringed with some half dozen pale yel-
low or canary colored lashes, from beneath
which peer two small, delicate eyes, on or-
dinary occasions of a subdued, ethereal blue,
but when I am engaged in animated and
vivacious conversation they are lit up with
the fire of enthusiasm and sparkle and scin-
tillate like "block diamonds." Nose most
emphatically of the aquiline type; mouth a
tripe wider than is considered the standard
of perfection, but when it is expanded with
one of my angelic smiles, reveals—at pres-
ent a vacuum, but when I get the set of
"china" I have recently ordered, I flatter
myself that I can display as fine a set of
pearl as a miss of thirteen who has never
been allowed to indulge in any excess of
sweets. My forehead and chin are not like
some I have seen, trying to push them-
selves forward into notice. On the contrary
they appear very reticent and receding,
and have to be sought out before they are
found.
	There has not been much variation, or
many remarkable episodes in my career, so
far.
	Until I was fourteen years old I stayed
closely at home under the care of my moth-
er, who superintended my education. I
was then sent to boarding school, where,
being a remarkably acute and precocious
child, I graduated with the highest honors
after a period of only eighteen years. I
then returned home with the expectation
that in consequence of my superior attain-
ments, my well-known amiable tempera-
ment, dignified imposing figure, and ex-
alted, refined and intellectual countenance,
I would, no doubt, soon be sought out by
some congenial spirit to be a companion for
—or—that is—a governess or something of
the kind.
	But the years rolled on, some twelve or
more, and I looked in vain for the fruition
of my hopes. No one seemed to appreciate
my true worth. I gave up in despair and
accepted the situation of clerk in a dry
goods store, where I spent fifteen years of
my life; I then, for the sake of variety,
changed my employment, and went into a
telegraph office as operator. I only stayed
eighteen years. I disliked the occupation.

[Column 3]
One reason was while I was there I had exper-
enced a sad disappointment.
	It was in this wise: I became acquainted,
through the medium of electricity, with a
gentleman in a distant office. We exchang-
ed photographs (I sent him the photograph
of a friend, thinking to give him a pleas-
ant surprise when we should meet,) he
seemed quite pleased with me. A propos-
al soon came over the wires, to which I of-
course returned a favorable answer.
	He came to visit me soon after, but on
first beholding me, turned pale, and trem-
bled like the culprit he was.
	You see I wear spectacles. Not as many
suppose to render my vision more clear, but
to add to the dignity of my appearance;
well knowing that I could not long occupy
the responsible position I do, with the very
juvenile appearance I present without my
spectacles.
	Well, as soon as the operator could regain
breath sufficient to speak, he asked to be re-
leased from the engagement.
	I suppose that he, poor, depraved son of
Adam, did not consider himself worthy of
even looking on a pure-minded, noble-
hearted woman, and in the fact of being a
woman, placed so far above him that it
made him feel small and insignificant to
think about it. But I was disposed to be
very lenient in the matter, and was so gen-
erous as to overlook the one great fault of
his life, that of being a man. He seemed
determined not to let me throw myself
away and sued so pitifully for me to re-
lease myself that I finally yielded, provid-
ing he agreed not to prosecute me for breach
of promise. He assured me he would take
no steps in that direction, but would use all
the means in his power to prevent notoriety.
	He seemed so completely subdued and
crest-fallen that I think he must have left
the country in perfect disgust with himself,
as I have never heard anything from him
since, and it has been about ten years.
And such is life.
	Now, before closing, allow me to display
my talent for reading characters intuitively.
You "are not what you seem." I have
talked all along as though I considered you
a man. But I am thoroughly convinced
that you are not. No such sentiment ever
emanated from the mind of man who take
such a narrow-minded view of the subject.
You are a woman; and believing you such
Sister Hal, I extend to you the right hand
of friendship.
	Yours in the common cause of Woman's
Rights and Wrongs,
		OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.
[handwritten] Augusta [---] Grant


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	How People Become Ill:—By cating too much,
and too fast; by swallowing imperfectly-masticated
food; by taking too much fluid during meals; by
drinking spirits and other intoxicating drinks fre-
quently; by keeping late hours so as to relax the
circulation; by wearing thin shoes; by neglecting
to take sufficient exercise to keep the hands and
feet warm; by neglecting to wash the body suffi-
ciently to keep the pores of the skin open; by ex-
changing the warm clothes worn in a warm room
during the day, for light costumes and exposure
incident to evening parties; by starving the
stomach to gratify a vain and foolish passion for
dress; by keeping up a constant excitement; by
fretting the mind with borrowed troubles; by em-
ploying quack doctors and swallowing quack nos-
trums for every imaginary ill; by taking meals at
irregular intervals.
	Power of the Hands:—Many mothers pass
their lives in rearing their families, giving medi-

[Column 2]
cines conscientiously, sparing no needful expense,
and yet never know what a power they are in
themselves. For instance; but few mothers know
that croup, taken in its early stages, may be often
removed by such simple appliances as the mother's
warm hand laid snugly at the throat and over the
lungs of the child, flatly, in the form of a poul-
tice, and acting quite as effectually and quickly as
any poultice or linament. This, with warm cover-
ing of blankets, with the warmth of the mother's
body, has relieved cases where children had taken
a little cold, without disturbing others or the child
either. It is not well for a child to be hurried out
of bed when it begins that croupy cough, often
breathing cooler air, which is always bad for that
peculiar disease. I only wish to say to mothers,
you know not what power your own hands possess,
until you have tried them on pains and early symp-
toms of croup. Those to whom these remarks are
new, will be astonished at the result of these in-
fluences upon the patient.
	It is a shame that such a blessed and useful
agent should be abused as this has sometimes been,
by impostors, claiming that it was the power of
some Indian Doctor, or some other long-deceased
person, while the rubbing slowly with the hands
of a friend over a person in distress produces al-
most a magical effect. Perhaps we should not be
astonished that some are so superstitious as to at-
tribute this power to some spirit agency, and
could exercise this faculty. if they would, on their
sick friends; but, nevertheless, I am greatly as-
tonished when I see others, who in other respects
are intelligent, claiming a supernatural agency for
such appliances. Of course the power is more
or less great, as the person or nurse posseses more
or less magnetism, and is more or less soothing
and sympathetic. Try this, mothers, when the
first coughing comes on, and many times, you need
not take the child out of bed. Rub the throat and 
lungs well, so as to produce good circulation when
you remove the hand.
	Overwork.—Dr. Wilks of London, writing on
overwork, says:—My own opinion has already
been expressed, that the evils attending it on the
the community are vastly over-estimated; and judg-
ing from my own experience; the persons with un-
strung nerves who apply to the doctor are, not
the prime minister, the judges, and hard-working
professional men, but merchants and stockbrokers
retired from business, government clerks who
work from ten to four, women whose domestic du-
ties and bad servants are driving them to the
grave, young ladies whose visits to the village
school or Sunday performance on the organ are un-
dermining their health, and so on. In short, in
my experience I see more ailments arise from
want of occupation than from overwork, and tak-
ing the various kinds of nervous and dyspeptic
ailments which we are constantly treating, I find
at least six due to idleness to one from overwork.


The Centennial buildings at Philadelphia
are positively huge. The Machinery Hall
alone—one of the smallest of the buildings
—would accommodate with standing room
the entire population of Philadelphia, which
is nearly one million, and there would be
room enough left for the people of another
good-sized city. And this building is not
near as large as the mammoth building just
east of it, known as the "Main Building."
In this building every living soul in the
State of Pennsylvania could be supplied
with standing room, and leave a good-sized
corner for the people of another State.
Then a person can walk a hundred miles in
machinery hall, without going over the
same spot twice. In the Main Building he
could walk a hundred and fifty miles. Tak-
ing all the buildings, a visitor to the Expos-
ition can walk over five hundred miles, and
not go over any one place twice in the
whole distance.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	151


[Column 1]
CENTENNIAL SUFFRAGE FOR
		WOMEN.

		1776—1876

THIRTEEN REASONS WHY WOMEN SHOULD
		VOTE IN 1876

	["All governments derive their just powers from the
consent of the governed."		THOMAS JEFFERSON.]
	Women will vote, this year of grace 1876,
Not only in Wyoming Territory; but in
some one or more of the States, and will
help elect the Centennial President.
	This is a startling prediction. It is only
fair that reasons should be given for believ-
ing it will prove true.
	1. The coming Presidential election will
be more closely contested than any since
1844. The evenly balanced condition of
parties will impel politicians to leave no
stone unturned to secure success. Which-
ever party enfranchises Woman, in any
closely contested State, will make a brilliant
strategical stroke and secure its electoral
vote. The proposition has already been
made from a Democratic source to enfran-
chise intelligent women in some of the
Southern States in order to neutralize the
negro vote. It is regarded with favor by
some of the shrewdest and ablest Dem-
ocratic politicians. If one Southern State
disturbs the balance of political parties by
such a move in the interest of Democracy,
we may be sure that Republican politicians
will hasten to offset it by a similar counter
movement in favor of Republicanism.
	2. The Presidential election will probably
hinge on the vote of New York State. In-
telligent Woman Suffrage in New York
State would inure to the benefit of the Re-
publican candidate, as, in the extreme South,
it would inure to the benefit of the Demo-
cratic candidate.
	3. With the present voting population,
New York is hopelessly Democratic. Divis-
ions in the parties such as prevailed last year
cannot extend into a Presidential Campaign.
	4. It curiously happens that, through
Democratic divisions last fall, New York
has a Republican majority in both branches
of the State Legislature. The United States
Constitution provides that Presidential elec-
tors shall be chosen in such a manner as the
Legislatures of the several States may di-
rect. The New York Legislature may di-
rect that, in addition to present votes, all
women who can read and write, may vote
for Presidential electors The Governor can
not veto this, for the Federal Constitution
leaves this subject exclusively with the Leg-
islature. It is fair, however, to assume that
Gov. Tilden and the Democrats in the State
Legislature would favor rather than oppose
Woman's Enfranchisement, if they found it 
inevitable, in the hope of conciliating the
new voters. The Democratic minority
would probably urge the enfranchisement
of all women, in order to leave parties as
they are at present, while the Republicans
would insist on having an intelligence qual-
ification.	
	5. This would place New York among the
Republican States, and would bring forward
several leading Republican statesmen as
candidates, who have been rudely shoved to
the background by the apparently hopeless
political character of the State. If intelli-
gent women were allowed a vote for Presi-
dential electors New York would not im-
probably be represented on the Presiden-
tial ticket.
	6. Some of the shrewdest leading Repub-
licans in Albany, including, we are told,
Speaker J. W. Husted, of the assembly, see
these points even more clearly than we have
presented them, and favor Woman Suffrage

[Column 2]
for Presidential electors. The influence of
the Speaker would go a great way in pushing
such a measure.
	7. With intelligent Woman Suffrage
granted in any State, party leaders will be
quick to seize the idea wherever it can be
used to partisan advantage. Women will
vote first in closely contested States, and es-
pecially where the Legislature is of differ-
ent politics from the usual popular vote.
	8. Ten years ago there was vastly strong-
er feeling against Negro Suffrage than now
prevails against Woman's Enfranchisement.
But the entire Republican party wheeled
around in support of Negro Suffrage, en-
franchising the ignorant negroes of the
South "en masse," when it was seen that a
partisan advantage was to be gained by it.
The feeling against Woman Suffrage is not
nearly so strong as was that against Negro
Enfranchisement ten years ago.
	9. Thousands of intelligent Democrats
now regret that their party did not follow
the lead of Vallandigham in 1868, nomina-
ting S. B. Chase for President, on the plat-
form of Impartial Suffrage and Universal
Amnesty. Opposing Suffrage they lost
part of the negro vote which might else
have been retained; besides delaying am-
nesty for years, and making it the foot ball
for demagogues and third rate politicians
aspiring to be statesmen. Democrats will
not be apt to repeat their mistake of oppos-
ing the enfranchisement of any class of cit-
izens who are pretty sure of enfranchise-
ment within a few years at farthest. There
is this growing feeling that Woman Suffrage
is inevitable and near. The Boston Post, a
few years ago expressed a general feeling of
many politicians when it jocosely declared
in favor of Woman Suffrage because it
"meant to be on the winning side of the
next great issue." The Post will have to
hunt up and republish that article ere long.
	10. Various circumstances—notably the
Tilton-Woodhull scandal, have cast discred-
it on Woman Suffrage. But, though less
has been said on the subject, the belief in
the justice of allowing woman to vote has
steadily grown, as winter wheat sometimes
grows under a protecting snow bank. An
exciting political campaign will show that
no time has been lost during this seeming
reaction.
	11. Most intelligent men now concede the
justice and propriety of Woman's Enfran-
chisement, and only object that most wo-
men do not want to vote. But political ne-
cessities are dispelling women's indifference.
Women who own property need a vote, and
there is no argument against their having it.
In the Southern States intelligent women
would like a vote to prevent the rule of or-
ganized ignorance. In the North thousands
more want to vote to stop the evils of in-
temperance.
	12. During the past year the order of Pat-
rons of Husbandry, has familiarized one and
a half millions of men and women with the
idea of Woman as voters and as eligible to
office in the Grange Organization, and the
influence and power of this Order is con-
stantly and rapidly increasing. No evil ef-
fects have followed from the fact that wo-
men vote and are voted for in Grange meet-
ings. On the contrary it has had a refining
and harmonizing influence, and the pres-
ence of women in the Grange is universally
regarded as one of the chief causes of the
wonderful growth and success of the Order.
	13. This is the Centennial year. There
is universal expectation that something un-
usual is to happen; but nobody can guess
what is coming. This expectation of some-
thing unusual has in all history invariably
insured its own fulfilment. Millions of peo-

[Column 3]
ple will, this year, repeat the immortal
words of the Declaration of Independence:
"All governments derive their just powers
from the consent of the governed." The
men who periled all for this idea and for
that of "No taxation without representa-
tion" will be lauded in every newspaper and
from every rostrum in the country. It is
by such iteration and reiteration that truths
are made real to the popular thought and
conscience. What more natural than that
these constantly repeated truths conjoined
with the political necessities heretofore al-
luded to, should impress the public mind
with the idea that Woman's Enfranchise-
ment and equality in representation are the
true Centennial work, and that these after
all are the "something" that we have been
blindly expecting? If Woman's Enfran-
chisement is established in even one state in
1876, the claim of this year as memorable in
the progress of equal human rights will
never be disputed. If there is any other
way of realizing popular expectation of our
Centennial year so as to satisfy not only our-
selves but posterity and the world, it has
never been suggested.
	These are thirteen excellent reasons to ac-
count for Woman's Enfranchisement after
it is secured. Why not for believing that
it will be achieved soon?
			A GRANGER.
	Woman's Journal.


TURKISH LADIES.—I am inclined to
think, that all that we are told of the im-
prisonment of the seraglio is a great mis-
take. I suspect the Turkish ladies are un-
der no greater restraint than princesses and
ladies of rank in our country; and the hom-
ago paid them is infinitely greater. The
seclusion of the harem appears to be no
more than the natural wish of an adoring
husband to gurad his beloved from even the
knowledge of the ills and woes that mortal
man betide. Whilst he himself dares dan-
ger in every form, he wishes to protect “his
lady bird”—“the light of his harem”'—
from all trouble and anxiety. He would
fain make her life “a fairy tale;” he would
not even let “the winds of heaven visit her
face too roughly;” and as we carefully en-
shrine a valuable gem, or protect a sacred
relic from the profane gaze of the multi-
tude, so does he, on the same principle, hide
from vulgar ken his best, his choicest treas-
ure—“his ain kind dearie.” The Turks, in
their gallantry, consider the person of a
woman sacred; and the place of her retreat
—her harem—is always respected. Nay,
there have even been instances where per-
sons have fled for protection to their ene-
my's seraglio, and been thereby saved; so
that I found, that in Egypt I was likely to
be the guardian of the party, and that in
my utter helplessness I might possibly be a
panoply from danger to my protectors them-
selves. In fact, Mr. Salt seriously recom-
mended that I should always carry all our
most valuable papers and money about me
for safety.—Mrs. Elwood


WHO shall measure the subtlety of those
touches which convey the quality of the
soul as well as body, make a man's passion
for one woman differ from his passion for
another, as joy in the morning light, over
valley, river and white mountain top, dif-
fers from joy among Chinese lanterns and
glass panels.—George. Eliot.


KNOWLEDGE is precious for its own sake;
it is its own exceeding great reward.


152		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	ALL the university examinations in Italy
are open to women on the same terms as to
men.
	MISS Brandon, the author, proposes to
come over to America and give readings.
	A BILL has been proposed in the New
York Assembly, proposing to confer the
right to vote for presidential electors on all
women with $250 worth of real estate.
	MRS. Elizabeth Reuter is the oldest citi-
zen of Baltimore. She was born in Luxem-
burg, Europe, and is said to have been 109
on Christmas morning, but is still able to go
about and superintend the house-work.
	THE daughter of the late Mark Smith,
who has been studying for three years un-
der Signor San Giovanni, and who has ap-
peared in several Italian companies as Mlle.
Marco, has been engaged for the St. Peters-
burg imperial opera, at a salary of 4000 francs
a month.
	MISS Emma A. Fisher, of Grand Rapids,
Mich., has resigned her position as assist-
ant teacher at the Spring Street School, and
will enter the office of the Saturday Even-
ing Post. Miss Fisher is a talented young
lady, and promises to make an excellent
business woman and journalist.
	LADY Louisa Stuart, the last descendant
of the royal family of Scotland, died at
Traquair House, near Peebles, recently, in
her one hundredth year. She was the last
representative of a once powerful border-
clan. She was the daughter of the seventh
earl, and upon the death, in 1861, of her
brother, Charles, the eighth peer, the an-
cient title of the line became extinct.


PIPSEY PAPERS.

	Another sad accident has occurred through
the use of concentrated lye for washing. Mr.
Doolan, of Provo, has just lost a beautiful
and interesting child, fifteen months old,
from drinking lye.
	Mothers, for the sake of your little ones,
be careful of your lye; or still better, if pos-
sible do not use it. If it is necessary to use
it, handle it with fear and trembling. Be
as careful as you would with a bottle of
strychnine; you would not put that down
carelessly for fear of an accident. The lye is
just as deadly, and perhaps more danger-
ous, for it is so often carelessly handled.
Every one who uses it knows, that after the
box has been wet, it continues to dissolve,
often running over the box and dropping
from the shelf, making its way into unex-
pected places.
	My sister set a cup of tea on the shelf
thinking she would drink it after a while.
In the mean time the lye box dripped into
it. She burned her mouth very badly, but
fortunately did not get any in her throat.
It caused her family-great alarm for awhile.
	Ice melted is as good as snow or rain wa-
ter, no matter how hard or impure the
water before freezing, it is pure and soft
afterward. Sal-soda is good to cleanse water
but is more expensive than lye.
	The lady's name mentioned in Pipsey
Paper of Feb. 15, is Heward, not Hencord,
as printed.
	I have not time to write much now, I
have been so crowded with Society business.
I will tell you something about it next time.
			MARY.


FLOWERS

	IN the world, a man lives in his own
age; in solitude, in all ages.
	TIME spares nothing produced without
his aid.—Boileau.
	THE follies of most people are rather ob-
jects of mirth than censure.
	THEY who place their affections on
trifles at first for amusement, will find that
those trifles become their most serious con-
cern.
	MANY practise in private what they con-
demn in pnblic, and think they pay every
debt to virtue when they praise it.—Gold-
smith.
	MANY men treat others as though they
were sinners, and then express surprise that
they do not act like angels.
	EXPERIENCE tells us that knowledge is
not knowledge until we use it--that it is
not ours until we have brought it under the
great faculty of speech.


Mrs. M. S. BENSON
Has had 25 years experience as an Accoucher and Her-
balist.  She makes a specialty of Female Complaints, and
of Fits.  Office and residence ot Morris' corner, one
block south of the Theatre on the State Road.

THE FINE ARTS.
The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our 
prices are pnt at living rates.
 We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
 A full assortment of Day and Sunday School I rizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to  C. R. SAVAGE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

AT TEASDEL'S
 On and after December 1st I will sell all Raisins and 
Currants and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared,
thus giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their 
Mince Meat for Christmas. A full Supply of Presents for 
Christmas and New Year in useful and substantial items.
 Dried Apples, to the many inquiries: I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
S.P. TEASDEL, Eagle House,

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at 
the Old Fashioned House.

HOME-MADE, BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
doors below Walker Honse, and examine our 
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
                        Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

LITTLE & ROUNDY,
Wholesale and Retail dealers in 
Crockery, China and Glassware,
	TABLE CUTLERY AND PLATEDWARE.
23, MAIN STREET

MITCHELL & JAMES, 
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
AGENTS FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

MILLINERY.
Mrs. C. E. Dye,
	Thanks the Ladies of Salt Lake City and Territory
for their liberal patronage.  She is now prepared to ac-
commodate them with all the Latest Fall and Winter
Styles in Millinery and Notions, at her new Store, No. 17
Main Street. GIVE HER A CALL. Prices to suit the times. 

Z.C.M.I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

O. L. ELIASON,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, and Jewelry, 
Second South Street, Opposite Walker
Brothers' Bank.
Watches and Clocks Repaired and Warranted fo
ONE YEAR.

THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
priced articles made by the 
WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
S. P. CROMPTON, Supt.

LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
BUTTER and EGGS,
F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

	H. E. PHELPS,
		29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIACES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
