[Vol47 | January 1960 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Award Winners Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest| Author: [No author listed - this appears to be an announcement by The Relief Society General Board]]
THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1959 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1959 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15, 1959.

The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Dorothy J. Roberts, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Immigrant's Child." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Lucille R. Perry, Woods Cross, Utah, for her poem "According to the Day." The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, for her poem "Loam-Stained."

This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board, since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader.

The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry.

Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

Mrs. Roberts appears for the fourth time as an award winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest; Mrs. Perry is a first-time winner; and 1959 marks the seventh time that Mrs. Wangsgaard has placed in the contest.

There were 172 poems submitted in this year's contest. Entries were received from twenty-eight states, with the largest number coming, in order, from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, and New York. Entries were received also from Washington D.C., Canada, and England.

The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated.

The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are herewith published in this issue of the Magazine.