[Vol47 | January 1960 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
Nibley Assistant Church Tfistorian NE Northern States Mission was organized in 1889. It contained within its boundaries the states of Illinois, lowa, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. 'The headquarters of the mission was established in Council Bluffs, Iowa, with John E. Booth as president. President Booth was succeeded in 1890 by Charles W. Stayner. President Stayner served until 1895, when he was succeeded by Joshua Reuben Clark (father of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.). President Clark was succeeded in 1896 by Samue] G. Spencer. President Spencer was succeeded in December 1896 by Louis A. Kelsch. Under the direction of President Kelsch, the headquarters of the mission was moved to Chicago in January 1897. In 1900 the Manitoba Province of Canada was added to the Northern States Mission. Prior to this time, the State of Indiana had also been added, and, in 1925, Ohio became a part of the mission territory. President Kelsch served until 1901. Others who have succeeded him arc: Walter C. Lyman, 1901-2; Asahel H. Woodruff, 1902-4; German E. Ellsworth, 1904-19; Winslow Farr Smith, 1919-23; John H. Taylor, 1923- 29; Noah S. Pond, 1929-31. In 1930 there were 7,099 members in the Northern States Mission. President Pond presided until 1931, when he was succeeded by George From an Old Lithograph NAUVOO THE BEAUTIFUL From the Iowa Side of the Mississippi River Page 24 THE NORTHERN STATES MISSION 25 a? ¥: ". It rae x é 3 2 ¥ + sc « pe fee ee S te Soa Ewing Galloway, New York FARM SCENE IN ROLLING WISCONSIN HILLS S. Romney. President Romney presided until December 1935, when he died suddenly of a heart attack at Rockford, Illinois, after a very successful mission. Presidents who have succeeded President Romney, until the present time are: Bryant S. Hinckley, 1935-39; Leo J. Muir, 1939-43; David I. Stoddard, 1943-46; Creed Haymond, 1946-49; Waldo M. Anderson, 1949-53; Isaac A. Smoot, 1953-57. President Smoot died in the mission home in Chicago of a heart attack, after a successful mission, on March 12, 1957. His successor was Richard C. Stratford, who presides at the present time. Chicago Stake was formed in the Northern States Mission in November 1936; Detroit Stake-was organized in November 1952. The Great Lakes Mission was formed from the Northern States Mission in October 1949; it includes the states of Michigan, Indiana, and Ohio. On October 1, 1959, the membership of the Northern States Mission was 9,852; these members were located in fifty-nine branches. Fifty-nine Relief Society organizations, with 1145 members, were reported in December 1958. Vera C. Stratford presides over the Northern States Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, Buckingham Fountain, Chicago, Illinois, is a striking night photograph by Rupert Leach, from Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. See also "Recipes From the Northern States Mission," by Vera C. Stratford, page 34. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1900 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF Att NATIONS" MEMORIAL SERVICES AT MOUNT VERNON: The one hundredth anniversary of the death of George Washington, which occurred December 14, 1799, was appropriately remembered... Throughout the land. At Mount Vernon the scene was impressive.... President McKinley, accompanied by members of his Cabinet, attended the exercises and delivered an address. 'The procession that moved up the slope to the mansion consisted of the Third United States Cavalry band... The Grand Lodge of Virginia and of the District of Columbia.... President McKinley reviewed the procession with uncovered head, and, as the last of it passed the mansion, the presidential party fell in line at the rear and marched to the tomb where Washington was first interred.... When the President finished his address twenty-one guns were fired by the United States steamship SyIph. Whule the guns from the war vessel were booming, the entire assembly sang "America." —Editorial MISS ANTHONY'S LETTER: In this, my eightieth year, I am filled with a great desire to urge all believers in the political enfranchisement of women to manifest that belief in some material way. Wiull you not, as a New Year's pledge, promise to aid the Suffrage Association in some direct manner? No woman is so situated that she cannot do something.... The command to labor for the elevation of human kind is not upon a chosen few only, but upon every intelligent being.... —Susan B, Anthony TWO CITIES On the dusky edge of evening, stretched in shining peace it lies, City built of clouds and sunshine — wonder of the Western skies. Darkness gathers, Eastward, Westward; stronger waxeth my desire, Reaching through celestial spaces, glittering as with rain of fire. To the city set with jasper, having twelve foundations fair, Flashing from their jeweled splendor every color soft and rare. —Selected A WOMAN WHO INHERITED FIVE COPPER CLAIMS: Miss Abbie Eastman, of Phoenix, Ariz., inherited five copper claims three years ago, and has been working ever since in California and Arizona to earn the money required to hold them until they could be developed and sold. She has always been obliged to earn her own bread, but with the sight of a fortune before her she worked harder than ever. She persevered, and lately sold one claim for $45,000. 7 —News Note A NEW DEPARTURE: Mrs. Admiral Dewey startled Washington society by announcing that women as well. As men would be welcome at her New Year's reception. This is the revival of a custom that was abolished in Cleveland's administration. —News Note Page 26 MP: OSWALD B. LORD of New York has been reappointed as an alternate representative to the United States delegation to the General Assembly of the United Nations. She is the only woman on the U. S. Delegation. ENNIFER VYVYAN, soprano, and Monica Sinclair, contralto, are English women who have achieved distinction for their singing in Handel's Messiah, under the direction of world-famous Sir Thomas Beecham. They are both graduates of the Royal Academy of Music, and have sung at Covent Garden, Sadler's Wells, the Royal Opera House, and in many other opera houses in the British Isles and elsewhere. MBS. CLAIRE FEJES, of Fairbanks, Alaska, mother of two children, who assists her husband Joseph Fejes in running a_ hobby and art supply shop, is a well-known artist of the Northland whose paintings have won acclaim in many parts of the United States and are now on display at the Women's City Club in New York City. Her water colors, oils, and sketches portray the majestic scenery and the Eskimo tribes in the regions of Kotzebue and Point Hope.