[Vol47 | January 1960 | Sequence: 13 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
[Editorial: The Days of a Woman's Life Vesta P. Crawford]
The young wife in her new home might perhaps say to herself, this is a new unit in the kingdom of EDITORIAL earth, and in the kingdom of the Heavenly Father. Here are two people, strangers in many ways, coming from different homes, to merge together, each one bringing the past to build into a new unit, with the aura of youth and strength — so the young wife builds. The wife and her mother-in-law, whatever may be the differences in personality, have much to bring them close together. 'Vhey have a shared devotion to the son who is now a husband, and together they will love the grandchildren, enlarging the unit of the family with a new perspective and new companionship To the voung wife, the coming of a child seems to be a miracle. And so it is, for the Heavenly Father has given a spirit to tabernacle upon the carth, and the child, in his innocence, scems to be remembering his former home, even as he explores the wonders of carth. The mother, then, secs places and people through young eyes, as if a new portrait were being designed upon a white canvas, all impressions webbed in wondcr and beauty. The mother feels herself a part of all creation — a kinship with sunlight and flowers, and far habitations, having a wide love for children everywhere and a yearning to in- 29 crease the welfare and opportunities of all children. When a daughter or son marries, a woman again meets a stranger, certainly a stranger at first, and the circle of the family is at the same time diminished and_ enlarged. New adjustments come for older mothers, and there is a desire for greater understanding and for opportunities that will give wisdom and happiness in the circle of the growing family. One woman said, as her grandchildren grew like flowers around her, "Now [ am living in the perennial garden, and I have learned to receive with greater rejoicing the association with children, who are really the buds and blossoms of the world." 'This heightened sensitivity to companionship with young spirits seems to be onc of the greatest blessings realized by grandmothers, as they see the cycle of life thus made strong and everlasting. Grandchildren bring gifts from the faraway country of childhood. Thus are the ages of a woman combined into a cycle of increasing wisdom, expanding sympathies, and a widened appreciation of the gift of life and time — the gift of years, and always the New Year, and the eternal horizon. —V. P. C. Years Roxana Farnsworth Hase Have you grown lesser since your hair is gray And strength somewhat diminished in your arms? Is that fine mind I always so admired Less keenly tuned with passing of youth's charms? Am I to think that years have warped your vision Because you slow a little in your stride? Ah, no! You are the ripened fruits of wisdom, I am the seeker, ever at your side.