[Vol47 | January 1960 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Larsen]
[Work Meeting — Food Care and Preservation Charlotte A. Larsen]

Once winning the war no longer consumed their energies, it became increasingly evident that a new form of government would have to be worked out. In general, the new Nation's only identity lay in its being separate from Britain. Until well into the nineteenth century, the great issues to be faced and solved centered about the government's responsibilities to its people: Should the government favor rural agriculture or urban commerce and _ finance? Should property rule, or should the mass of people? Which government was to dominate, state or Federal? How far should revolution go, not only in government but in social patterns, in arts, culture, and in morals? With a pattern of successful revolution behind them, how was the momentum of revolution to be stopped? Having repudiated Mother England, should she now be followed in anything? If so, in what, and how far? Politically, the wobbling country achieved identity by forming one of our two greatest documents: 'The Constitution. But even after the necessary nine states ratified it very reluctantly within the two years following 1787, it still had to be interpreted, a process which continues. 59 But even while these central political and economic issues were paramount, a creative unity-out-ofdiversity process molded the Constitution into the enduring standard of measurement and justice which continues to radiate throughout every phase of the national chiaracter. By contrast, the beginnings in the arts during the same period, before 1800, were so imitative and weak as to be of little consequence: however, the fact that beginings were made is significant. Mlusic drama continued to follow English patterns, although Royal 'Tyler's The Contrast, which appeared in 1787 as a direct imitation of Sheridan's The School for Scandal, contained native American characters and setting which still make it readable. 'Tyler soon became a lawyer, leaving Icadership to Willam Dunlap, the father of drama in America, who devoted his life to the stage by translating, producing, and writing such dramas as his Andre (1798), based on a Revolutionary War theme. The novels followed directly Samuel Richardson's pattern of sentiment and seduction as established in his highly successful Pamela, all heavily moralizing. The Power of Svmpathy, written in 1759, ls accepted as the first American novel, although Susanna Haswell Rowson's Charlotte Temple (1791) with its setting both in England and America, was far more popular, being reprinted as late as 1930. Likewise, the poetry of the Connecticut or Hartford Wits, centering about Yale College, was unashamedly imitative of English models, both during and after the war. But, roughly, until 1800, the Americans were comparaand — 60 tively happy with their imitations; it was the endless tauntings of sophisticated English critics reminding them that they had produced noth. Ing of their own which rubbed salt into this opening cultural and social wound. Federalists Versus Republicans Although the Federalist and Republican political parties were formed in the decades following the Revolutionary War, their opposing philosophies had existed at least a hundred years previous, and with some modification their same beliefs and alignment of forces have continued to the present. Within Washington's first cabinet were the leaders of the two factions, young Alexander Hamilton, who was to lead the Federalists, and Thomas Jefferson, the Republicans (today's Democrats). Short of openly opposing cach other publicly, they did all they could to halt each other's influence, since each feared the other's policies. In 1791 Jefferson and James Madison, representatives of the Virginia planters and their agrarian aristocracy, allied themselves with Irishman George Clinton's 'Tammany faction of New York to oppose the wealthy shipping and financial aristocracy of New York City and Boston, who became the Federalists. Conversely, it was Hamilton's big-city lawyers and moneyed men who had advocated adoption of the Constitution in 1787, and the coon-skin-cap frontiersmen and farmers who feared it, and ratified it so reluctantly. The French Revolution of 1789 was a burning issue throughout the colonies, and created a widening social and economic gap between RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 the two parties. Seeing the French peasants executing their wealthy land-holding aristocrats and seizing their property, the Federalists were aghast, and more than all else feared a similar unleashing of rabble democracy in their own streets. In the elections of 1800, they attempted to defeat Jefferson by relating him to Tom Paine and the local French disciples of "Liberty, Equality, Fraternity." As we have seen, they succeeded in making 'Tom Paine into a boogeyman, but the backwoods vote elected Jefferson nevertheless. While Hamilton and his followers were openly pro-Bnitish, Jefferson and his followers defied them by wearing the red French cockades in their hats, and rejoicing at every victory of the "rabble" in France, believing as did Paine, that they were carrying on the second chapter in the world revolution which their own revolution had begun. While President George Washington was so disturbed at the increasing enmity between these two factions that at the end of his first term he wished to resign, it should be pointed out that the strength of the Constitution, as of the Nation ever since, has lain in these factions opposing and, therefore, balancing each other.

'The French people destroyed the opposition against whom they revolted; Napoleon followed. In contrast, the United States permitted both to speak and grow strong; and the great system is the result. But to understand these general principles in terms of pcople, we should see them at work in two prominent Federalists: 'Timothy Dwight and Alexander Hamilton, and, in the next lesson, in Thomas Jefferson. LESSON DEPARTMENT Courtesy Yale University Art Gallery TIMOTHY DWIGHT From a Painting by John Trumbull Timothy Dwight (1752-1817) A grandson of Jonathan Edwards, Timothy Dwight entered Yale at age thirtcen, became a tutor there, and he inspired the troops with his sermons and war songs, the most notable being "Columbia." He was a chaplain during the Revolution, and in 1783, at age thirty-one, he moved to Greenfield, Connecticut, where for twelve years he was minister, community leader, and director of the co-educational school he established. For the last twentythree years of his life he was president of Yale, where he was a great teacher and leader of Calvinism, defending the faith against all attackers.