[Vol47 | January 1960 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: Rosella]
Ted, in turn, wondered what he had done to deserve such a lovely, glowing smile from his beautiful wife, Rosella Yenkins Makes Quilts and Rugs ae ae Cora Brown Jenkins, Gooding, Idaho, makes quilts, rugs, and many doilies, pot holders, dolls, and other items for home beautification and for gifts. She has given several quilts to her children and has made one for each of her seven grandchildren for their weddings. She pieced a quilt top for the Relief Society. Her beautiful and useful rugs have been items of much admiration at Relief Society bazaars. She cultivates a large vegetable garden and a lovely flower garden, and both of these provide gifts for family and friends. Mrs. Jenkins has been a Relief Society visiting teacher for forty-six years and has also served many years as an executive officer. She is mother to four children, grandmother to nineteen, and great-grandmother to seven. — Ruth to Boaz Katherine F. Larsen Never for pity have I come to you, Though pity enough were perhaps my due. Nor for your largess do I entreat— Only that I might lie at your feet. Never have I stretched hands to receive Plums, grapes, and pomegranates — only believe I proffer to you sheer grain that I Have garnered under the unpiiying sky. Page 38 The New Day Hazel K. Todd CHAPTER 4 Synopsis: Lynn Marlow, a dress designer, who lives in Chicago and is engaged to David Talbot, returns to Springdale, her home town, to visit her Aunt Polly, and to find out if she has really forgotten her early love for Johnny Spencer. He had married a Southern girl and she had died, leaving two children. On her way to her aunt's home, Lynn meets Johnny's children, but she delays going to see Johnny. I' was quite natural that her feet I should turn to the willow path. Long ago, when the path was new, she had gone there to think. If she had done something wrong and Aunt Polly had reprimanded her, if she had quarreled with Johnny, or if anything had happened that wasn't right, she had come here in the willows and found her Balm of Gilead. Now she walked in the ferns and willow leaves until she came to the stump lying like a hound dog by the path. And she sat down on it and took off her shoes and dipped her feet into the cool water. In the leaves near something caught her eye. It was the pocket knife, the open blade shining up at her through the leaves. Her heart began a peculiar thumping. That knife belonged to Johnny's boy. He had given it to her to make the whistle that she had never finished. She picked it up thoughtfully. 'Then, reaching up, she snipped off the willow branch hanging low over her head. The blade slid quite easily through the tender limb, and in a short time she was bark from her pounding the whistle. It was funny how she could temember just the right things to do after so many years. Just how deep to make the groove, just where to cut the slit, and then the taste of the sap as she wet the bare whistle in her mouth to make the bark slide on easily. She was eager as a child as she put the whistle to her lips. It had always been fun to try a new whistle. 'There were so many pitches. It blew a high shrill note that made her start a little so that she looked squarely into the pair of eyes peeking furtively through the willow clump. She knew those eyes, too. She would never question them again. 'They were Johnny's eyes, in Johnny's son's face. E knew immediately that she had seen him, but he stayed defiantly in the willows. "I want my knife," he said. Lynn had regained her composure now. "Of course you may have it," she said "but you must come and get it." He came a few steps out of the willows, and Lynn looked behind him, expecting to see the little girl. "Where is your sister?" "None of your business," he said, without offering to come further. She raised her eyebrows. "I'm sorry. I didn't mean to make you angry." "What'd you run away for when you promised to make us a whistle?" Page 39 40 Oh, so that was it! "Tm sorry," she said again. "It was very foolish of me to run away. Would you believe me if I told you I was afraid of something when I ran away?" "There's nothing in these willows to get you,' he said. He was still eyeing her up and down. "Oh, I'm sure of that,' Lynn said very seriously. "But — well, if you had something that made you very, very unhappy and you lost it, and then suddenly found it, do you think you might run away before it hurt you all over again?" He puckered his forehead into a scowl. "You don't talk plain," he said. She laughed then. "TI suppose I don't." She looked down into her hand at the whistle. "Did you hear my whistle?" "Sure, [ heard it. I was standing right there. I watched you make it." "Oh, did you! I thought you just came out of nowhere." "That's silly. Nobody comes out of nowhere." She laughed again. "I guess they don't." He still stood in the same place. "Would you like the whistle?" He thought a minute. "Tl give it to Lindy," he said and came forward. Lindy! Johnny had named his little girl Lindy! Like a fast moving drama, there rushed before her a night along the willow path, with Johnny's arms around her. She could see vividly the flower in his buttonhole. She could even smell the violets in her hair. And sharp and clear a voice tender, sweet, "All! Our little girls we will name Lindy." She sat stupified while he took RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 the whistle she held in her hand. "I want my knife, too," he said. "Oh, of course. Excuse me." She reached for the knife that was lying on the stump beside her. "Does Lindy like whistles?" "Course she does." Lynn was quite calm now. "I suppose all boys and girls like whistles." "Lindy is asleep," Peter volunteered now, as though to make up for his rudeness awhile ago. "Who who stays with her when she's asleep?" Lynn was unconsciously twisting the leaves from a willow branch. "Sometimes I do. Sometimes she gets up and plays by herself." A slight frown knit her forehead. "How old is Lindy?" she asked. "She's four, and she knows a lot," he announced nonchalantly. Lynn looked at the boy thoughtfully. He talked like a grown-up. "How old are you, Peter?" she asked. "Nearly six. Pll soon be as big as my dad," he said. "Do you and Lindy with your father?" "Course we do," Peter answered, "cause our mother died." He looked at her then as though there was a decision forming in his mind. "You can see our house from here," he said, pointing to it across the meadow. "Yes, I see," she said, following his finger. "Why don't you come and see it?" She caught her breath. And then David's words—"Promise me you will see Johnny," he had said. Lynn sighed. If she must see Johnny, perhaps she must also see his house.