[Vol47 | January 1960 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Fiction | Title: The New | Author: Todd]
[The New Day — Chapter 4 Hazel K. Todd]

The house by live alone, THE NEW DAY the mill — wan't that part of it, too? "{ — IJ think I would like to." They stood looking at each other. "Now?" she asked. "Sure." I was some far-fetched dream — walking down the path through the clover meadow with a _ boy whose eyes belonged to a lost love, to a house that by nghts was hers, where a little girl who might have been her baby lay asleep, whose leading footsteps brought her nearer and nearer to some knot of confused circumstances she could not face; and yet could not avoid. It was all crazy — some silly hallucination from which she must presently awaken. She didn't belong here anyway. She belonged with David on a warm green hillside. Her mind rambled wildly, inventing and entangling. The breeze was soft and sweet with scented clover bloom, or lilac or pussy willow or birds' songs, or chirping crickets or — on and on it went, manufacturing incoherent phrases of nonsense, like a jumbled picture puzzle where you searched endlessly without ever finding a piece that would fit. And all the times she had cried in the night, all the walks in the willow path, all the dress designs she had fashioned, all the rides with David through the forest preserves were all mixed together. "That's the monkey tree." Lynn came back from her confused mental soliloquy. Peter was pointing to a gnarled old juniper tree standing like a half-naked giant with fingers and toes stretching in all directions. "Monkey tree?" she repeated, 41 hardly knowing what she said. "Sure. My Dad calls it that because it would be such a good tree for monkeys. I play I'm a monkey when I climb it." Lynn laughed then, a_ little. "Does Lindy climb the tree, too?'' It was a silly thing to ask. But everything was unreal anyway. "Aw, gee, no. Girls can't climb trees. Anyway, she's too little. She'd fall and break something." "Yes, of course,' Lynn agreed. "The turkey nest is over that way on the other side of the strawberries. Ill show it to you after we see the house." YNN looked at the house then that sat at the top of the slope which ran down and lost itself in the millpond. It was a small white house with a sun porch and a path that curled round the hill like an invitation. 'There was a chimney, too, a rock chimney with stones laid just so in rows of red mortar. The roof, cool and green, spread wide eaves far enough to shade a summer afternoon to tranquility. And there was a window with a pink ruffled curtain. Lynn had an unquenchable desire to see inside the house. She wanted to know if there was a pink cupboard with blue teacups and a planter box where you could put bright geraniums. She hurried her footsteps toward the door, and stopped as suddenly. What will I do if Johnny is there? Even if I have promised that I must see him, would he want to see me? And anyway, this house belonged to a girl with dark hair from the South. The door opened slowly, and she looked down into the frightened 42 eyes of the little girl. The tot started as if she might run and then she caught sight of Peter behind Lynn and ran crying to him and hanging on to his shirt. "Aw, shucks, Lindy, you don't have to be afraid. I asked her to come and see whcre we live." The child turned her head sideways and peered at Lynn through tear-filled eyes, and then she hid her face in the plaid shirt. "Look, Lindy," Peter said with big brother superiority, "she made you a whistle." Lindy unburied her face. In a second or two she reached her chubby hand forward for the whistle, which she held silently. "Blow it, dear," Lynn said, smiling. Hesitantly Lindy put the whistle to her lips, but she didn't blow it. She just looked from Peter to Lynn and back again. "Aw, why don't you blow it?" Peter said. Then she blew, weakly at first and then loudly. "See, I told you it'd blow," Peter said. Lynn looked from the little girl into the room. And it was filled with Johnny from the trophy on the mantel that he had won when he was captain of the basketball team to his slippers sitting by the fireplace. 'There was a planter box, too. But it had no geraniums in it. That would have to be from a woman, "T 'want a drink," Lindy. Said. "I'm thoisty." Lynn brought herself back to the children. "TI get you a drink." In the kitchen she found the pink RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 cupboard and a row of blue plates and a shelf of spices and a line of blue teacups hanging on hooks. She took one down and filled it with water from the sink. "Here, Lindy," she said. Lindy took the cup and drank heartily. "Fank you," she said, and Lynn tried to swallow the lump in her throat. Impulsively she leaned down and lifted the httle girl in her arms. "You are a darling," she said. "I am a buttonhook." "That's what Dad calls her," Peter explained. Lynn laughed and hugged the child. As she did so her eyes found the rocking chair by the fireplace, and a strange urge tugged at her. This is unreal, she thought, as she sat in the chair with the child in her lap. But everything is unreal. She began rocking back and forth while the little girl cuddled in her arms. The chair was turned toward the door, and she could see down the path that wound away into the junipers. And up the hill she could see Aunt Polly's. Aunt Polly was there making rhubarb pies. She looked at the child lying quietly in her arms. 'Then some faint sound or intuition broke the spell and she looked up. Johnny was staring at her. Johnny, with his wide gray eyes, one lock of his dark hair falling over his forehead. Even in the first split second she saw him, she knew the years had hung a weariness about him. He was standing there in the door, and she thought she could never forget his face. (To be continued) Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurcr All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. Sce regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES ' P aay GES RBA NOE, RAS PAT Be PIE Oe CIT LEER Photograph submitted by Daisy R.