CORRESPONDENCE.

	PITTSBURG, Pa., Sept. 19, 1886.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR SISTER:—With feelings of joy I write
a few lines, hoping you and yours are well, and
still in the sunlight of the Gospel of Christ.
The last time I wrote, you were away from
home visiting Kirtland, Nauvoo, and thither
to different places, on missionary work. I
read at different times in the papers of the al-
most Herculean task you had undertaken, in
company with those other noble-hearted sisters,
and I prayed to my Heavenly Father to bear
you up and give you strength, that you might
be able to speak words suitable to the occasion.
I have meditated much upon the condition of
this nation, and I feel that the Latter-day
Saints will leave the people without excuse at
the great day which is near at hand. When
I hear of the attitude taken by the faithful
of this Church, it bespeaks a power that is
more than human, and one must be very blind
not to see the hand of Omnipotence made bare,
and the labors of those engaged in this noble
mission will not be lost. A bright day will
soon dawn for Zion, and those who have sought
the destruction of the Latter-day work will be
sent to their own place to reap what they have
sown.
	A short time ago, as I sat reading the news,
I noticed some correspondence from Penn.,
dated at Coal Valley, and I learned from it
that there were Elders laboring in that section;
the writer called himself a missionary; I read
it over and over; I scarcely could believe what
I had read, that Elders were so near me, but I
made up my mind to find them, asking my
Heavenly Father's aid; so on July 5th, a holi-
day I set out to find Coal Valley, contemplat-
ing a treat, if I could only meet with genuine
Mormons.
	I found Coal Valley sparsely settled, and
nearly all the people were away on that day

[Column 2]

for enjoyment. I did not know who to inquire
for—not even a name. A boy was seated on a
log by the railroad depot; I asked him if there
were any Mormons lived around there? He
said, "Yes, right up yonder among them old
houses there are some." Off I went, and soon
met with a woman, who, upon a similar inquiry,
directed me to a log shanty down on the river
bank, where she said a Mormon lived named
Baxendell. I soon found the place, and for
the first time in twenty years I had the privil-
ege of shaking hands with a true Latter-day
Saint. My heart was full. I cannot tell you
what my feelings were on that occasion. The
Elders were then out preaching. They had
heard of a brother somewhere in Pittsburg,but
had not been able to get his address, but had
written to the Deseret News Office in Salt Lake
City for it. I told them I lived in Pittsburg, and
had written several times to the Deseret News,
and also the sisters' paper, the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. Bro. B. asked what name I used in
the EXPONENT? I told him no name, just H.
M. W. Then he knew it was the same person
they had tried to find, and we shook hands
again. When we parted he gave me some
copies of the Epistle of the First Presidency.
His wife wished me to leave her the copies of
the EXPONENT I had brought with me, and I
told her I had brought them on purpose. The
next day I mailed a copy of the Epistle to
each of the following papers: The Dispatch,
Times, Chronicle, Telegraph, Commercial
Gazette, Penny Press, Post, Leader, and to the 
last a copy of the ladies' appeal to Congress.
He is a bold and fearless editor, and I thought
his paper would be the best to send that ap-
peal to, as I had only one copy. The cup of
iniquity of this nation is fast filling up. May
the Saints be wise and be upon the watch
tower, for there is no time to trifle away. I
feel happy in Mormonism, and love this work.
I hold a certificate of the last branch I was
in before I came to this country, and since I
have been in America I have not been near
any branch of the Church. I have been try-
ing to do right, and I feel proud of my religion,
and mean to gather to the bosom of the Church,
and bring with me the Holy Spirit, and be able
to give a good account of myself. My prayer
is for Zion; her troubles have borne heavily
upon my mind, and when I read of good and
holy men being sent to prison, I feel in my
heart I would rather go there than that they
should; I would rather suffer than have them.
The cause of Zion is in my thoughts and medi-
tations all the day and all the night long. My
prayers are for her suffering ones. May the
smiles of heaven rest upon them.
	Your brother in the covenant.
		H. M. W.
	P. S. Since this was written the Elders
have been to my house; I was indeed pleased to
see and entertain once more men holding the
holy priesthood.	W.


