EDITOR WOMAN'S JOURNAL:
	The following is from the Boston Woman's
Journal:
	Principal E. H. Cook read a paper on "Sys-
tematic Habit in Education, or The Study of
Civics in Our Public Schools," before the New
York State Teachers' Associations at Niagara
last July. The following is an extract:
	"How can the girls who are to supply the
large majority of the teachers for the coming
generation teach the subject of citizenship
without any knowledge thereof?
	"I would give to every girl as well as to
every boy a thorough training in the prepara-
tion for citizenship which the coming genera-
tions will demand from them. And here let
me go farther and say that every individual
student must have before him an inducement,
in order to become earnest and faithful in the
preparation for life work.
	"Take away from the boys of our land the
inalienable right of the ballot, and how many
of them will study with interest, value or
pleasure the history of our country and its
glorious institutions?
	"In order, then, to interest our girls in these
institutions, should they not have the same in-
ducement that is held out to the boys, viz: the
God-given right of the governed to have a
voice in the selection of those who shall govern
them, which can only come through the ballot.
	"Wendell Phillips said: 'Responsibility edu-
cates, and politics is but another name for
God's way of teaching the masses ethics, under
the responsibility of great present interests.'
	"I do not stand here as an advocate for
woman's rights, sometimes sneeringly so-called;
but for human rights, the right ot every indi-
vidual to voice by their suffrage who shall rule
them. I say, then, that the first step to secure
proper instruction on this subject and prepare
the majority of those who are to teach in our
public schools, is to place the ballot in the
hands of every person of proper age and in-
telligence, and put the responsibility of its
proper use upon every individual.
	"Without the proper and sufficient induce-
ments being extended to the large majority of
our teachers who are women, there will be


no careful and thorough preparation for the
work.
	"The denial of the right of suffrage to a
large majority of our people is a direct viola-
tion of those principles upon which our gov-
ernment is founded, and which are dear to
every American heart.
	"The social evils which are undermining the
best interests of our country can never proper-
ly be settled or adjusted until justice shall be
assured by placing the ballot in the hands of
all our citizens under proper restrictions.
	"The proper settlement of the great ques-
tion which involves the material and moral in-
terests of this land more than any other, viz.
the liquor traffic, can never be arrived at until
that large class whose prosperity and happiness-
are largely dependent upon this settlement,
viz., women, have an equal voice in its adjudica-
tion."
	Here is an opinion that has weight, coming
from a man in his position (Principal of the
Potsdam, N. Y., Normal and Training School)
who is not trying to advocate woman's rights,
but only stating an educational principle.
					E. L. BENEDICT.
	New York, Sept. 10, 1886.


