EDITOR WOMAN'S JOURNAL:
	A bright, progressive Northern woman said
recently in my hearing, upon being told that
Queen Victoria would permit no woman who
was divorced from her husband to be presented
to her; "Well, I would much rather never be


[Column 1]

﻿presented to Queen Victoria than live with a
man who abused me, or whose very touch was
pollution."
	I know a southern woman, a member of one
of the oldest and most aristocratic families of
Alabama, who says: "There is no indignity I
would not submit to, no amount of abuse I
would not bear, rather than do so unladylike a
thing as to leave my husband."
	This lady's life is exceptionally pleasant.
Her husband is devoted to her, has abundant
means, and her wish is law to him. Possibly,
were she differently situated, she might see
things in another light. At present she be-
longs to the large class of shielded, protected
women, who have never felt the rough blasts
of life, and have neither mercy nor pity for
their less favored sisters.
	These two women represent two extremes of
thought. From my point of view, the North-
ern woman is right, and the Southerner, with
her superior education, her elegant manners,
her cultivation and accomplishments, and her
rare opportunities for society and seeing the
world, is, as one of Charles Egbert Craddock's
characters would say, "fairly sodden in igno-
rance."
	The article in your Asheville correspondent,
in WOMAN'S JOURNAL for August 28, has
moved me to tell some things that I know of
the condition of the higher class of Southern
women, "the idols to whom every knee bows."
The women of whom "Asheville" speaks are
of the lower classes. At least, the men who
hold them in bondage have the excuse of igno-
rance. But the women whom I have to tell of
are educated, refined, cultivated. Their pedi-
grees antedate the Revolution. The men of
their families have boasted of their chivalry
for generations.
	I know a pretty little lady, a wife of two
years standing, but even now barely past
twenty, who is suffering from a horrible disease,
the gift of a profligate husband. She is pure,
lovely, and religious. She has no idea of the
nature of her complaint. Her physician tells
her she has been poisoned by ivy or poison oak.
Parents, husband, and physician all unite to
deceive her because they fear if she knew of
her husband's vileness, she would be so shocked
and horrified that she might refuse to live with
him, and so "disgrace the family."  When he
is absent from her, intent upon vicious plea-
sures, she writes him a loving letter every
morning, kisses his picture, and prays for him
every night. Her own parents look on ap-
provingly, willing to see their child sacrificed
on the altar of vice, rather than have their
annals stained with the "disgrace" of a separa-
tion.
	Some years ago a lady of an old and aristo-
cratic family married a "chivalrous" gentle-
man, who immediately assumed control of her
property, which was large, and was also en-
trusted with the guardianship of her younger
sister. Some two or three years after the
marriage she died very suddenly, soon after
signing a will which left him all her posses-
sions. Six months after her death he married
the younger sister. It was then discovered
that he had not only spent nearly all the first
wife’s money, but that he had betrayed his
trust as guardian, and had squandered the
second wife's property before he married her.
Then many suspicious circumstances came to
light, and it was soon believed by nearly all
the family that he had poisoned his first wife
so that he might marry the second and thus
cover up his defalcations. He became a
drunkard, and his drunkenness was of the
violent kind. For twenty years his wife bore
the abuse that a man maddened with drink is
capable of heaping upon a woman. She sat
for hours with a leaded pistol held close to her
head, the drunkard threatening to fire if she
stirred hand or foot. She passed many, nights
hidden under beds in the negro quarters. Her

[Column 2]

life was one agony of fear. She brought
children into the world to suffer with her, and
she saw the last cent of her property melt
away. But she never for an instant thought
of leaving him, nor would her family have con-
sented had she wished to do so. They all be-
lieved him to be a murderer; they knew him
to be a thief; that her life was a prolonged tor-
ture no one denied. Yet all this was as noth-
ing compared with the "disgrace" of a divorce.
Her relatives supported and pitied her, but
had she refused to endure her torment longer,
not one of them would have received or coun-
tenanced her. Finally he died, in a fit of de-
lirium tremens, and she was free to gather up
the fragments of her shattered life and make
the most of them. Twenty years of life with
a murderer, a thief, and a drunkard, to avoid
the disgrace of a separation!
	This happened "where woman remains in
the position where the deference of manhood
placed her;" in the country which "stands on
a much higher plane than the north;" where
the "outrage or murder of women so rarely
stains the criminal records."
	It would seem to the impartial observer
that a little agitation of "woman's rights"
would be a good thing among people whose
judgment is so warped. In short, that it might
be better not to be presented to Queen Vic-
toria.
