SOME PEOPLE WE HAVE MET.

	There has never been a year probably when
so many distinguished people have visited Salt
Lake City as the present one. The words of
the prophets are certainly being fulfilled
in this particular as well as in many others.
That many should come up to Zion to see and
to learn, and also to purchase articles manu-
factured in Zion. As yet the people here can-
not pride themselves very much upon home
manufacture, in this respect the saints are far
behind what they ought to be, and what they
might have been had more money been ex-
pended at home in establishing industries and
giving to the people employment than in send-
ing away to purchase articles made elsewhere.
In this matter of home industries the Saints
have much yet to learn, or at any rate to put

[Column 2]

in practice the teaching which has been given
to them, and there is no doubt the Lord will
be more willing to bless them in hearkening to
this wise counsel instead of enriching by their
purchases those who are seeking to deprive
them of their rights and even of liberty.
	There might be more little articles of in-
terest made here that would be pretty
souvenirs for strangers to carry away and in
this way leave a little money and it is the
trifles that seem insignificant in themselves
that help make up the total and great sums.
	Among those who have interested us particu-
larly as men and women of marked intelligence,
we really ought to mention a few whom we have
had the pleasure of meeting this last summer.
One of the most liberal minded gentlemen was
Frederick Robie, Governor of the State of
Maine, now filling his second term of office,
and though he was one of the G. A. R. he did
not at all approve of the rabid speeches made
by some of the company,and expressed his disap-
proval of the matter to us in plain terms.  His
speech was short, but the spirit of it was kind-
ly, and there was nothing in it that could have
been objectionable to any. Gov. Robie spent
an evening at our home, and we found in the
course of conversation, that we had some mu-
tual acquaintances, whom we had known in
school days, who had since made themselves
quite distinguished as statesmen.
	We had very pleasant calls from Mrs. Annie
Wittenmeyer, a distinguished speaker, and
also author of books and elaborate works on
the temperance question, and for many years
President of the W. C. T. U., Mrs. Maggie
Monroe, Secretary of the "Woman's Relief
Corps" of the G. A. R., Jennie June, who
came one day when we were out of town, and
left her regrets, saying, we had many mutual
friends, and Mrs. Clara Foltz, a distinguished
attorney at law, lecturer and speaker, from
California; also an active worker in the cause
of woman's suffrage, and of woman's advance-
ment in all the pursuits of life.
	Prince Wittgenstein of Russia, and the
Duchesse de Luynes, who came with a letter of
introduction from a lady in Boston, not men-
tioning other professional people, as well as
those who do not carry a title. These are a few
of the many who have called, and with whom
we have conversed upon the principles of the
Gospel, the settling of the country, the estab-
lishing of local government, the persecutions
of the past and present, the homes of the peo-
ple, etc., etc., answering numerous irrelative
questions in the mean time.
	While absent last winter and spring we had
the opportunity of meeting some very noted
people, and we promised to write and to pub-
lish items in regard to visits and interviews,
that we have not yet had the time to do.  We
have in mind, and intend yet to write up our
visit to the great American Poet, John Green-
leaf Whittier; also to Elizabeth Stuart Phelps,
Lucy Stone, Julia Ward Howe, and the people
we met and places we saw, for instance, Niagara
Falls, Mount Vernon, a veritable Mrs. Jellaby
we found in Boston, and so on; the New Eng-
land woods and villages, which, for failing to
elaborate, we have been somewhat censured;
the meeting with old schoolfellows, the places
where we learned a. b. abs, as well as geography,
grammer and arithmetic, the old homestead,
the village factory, the hemlock, pine and
golden rod, these and a hundred more
things may furnish material for many a
sketch.
	In conclusion let me ask of the sisters some
testimonies upon the subject of plural marriage,
chapters from their own individual experience.
Almost every stranger who steps in to purchase
a copy of the paper, asks the question, "Does
it give the views of women on plural mar-
raige?" And if we say "yes," they seem satis-
fied, but if "no, there is not anything positive

[Column 3]

on that subject," they immediately express a
desire for information on that topic. And
now, dear sisters, can you not supply some
good material of this kind for the edification
of those who may "read as they run?"
