A FEW THOUGHTS.

	How strange it seems that Conference should be 
held in Coalville, or anywhere, in fact, away from
Salt Lake City; and this change is only one of the
many recent changes and developments brought
about through the persecution of the enemies of
the Latter-day Saints, On every hand we can see
the ruin wrought by the enforcement of the Ed-
munds law. Not only are the people deprived of
the society and counsel of the leaders of the
Church, leaving them, as it were, "at sea," or "as
sheep without a shepherd," but many have been
sent to loathsome prisons, and their families
broken up and scittered, and even if not left in
poverty, deprived of their rightful protectors, and
suffering mentally through the cruel separations,
that the rendering of the law renders absolutely
necessary in its construction by the Judiciary.
The changes in family affairs, and the exiling of
men of means and executive ability is working 
great financial changes and hardship to the whole
people, that are being felt more and more as time
goes on. One can scarcely refrain from saying, 
"What will the end be?" And who can answer?
Or "to what will this persecution tend?" To these
questions one can only reply, "The Lord will take 
care of His people; He will make bare His arm in 
their defense," and so on. His promises are sure
and cannot fail.
	In times past the people looked forward to the 
Conference with the most pleasing anticipation.
The city was always in holiday attire; business
was prosperous; money plenty; and then the 
teaching from the stand in the Tabernacle was al-
ways looked forward to as a spiritual feast, and
also adapted to the practical needs of the people.
How changed the scene and the feeling now!
Every one is anxious and inquiring one of another,
and wondering how the tide will turn, and asking
of each other what course to pursue. Many are
growing diligent, who were before negligent of
duties, and the faith of many waxing stronger; 
and among the youth of Zion, while a portion are
indifferent and carried away with vanity and the
pride of the world, others are seeking to learn of
the truth, and to know the ways of the Lord, and
to walk in His commandments. There has been,
in days gone by, such prosperity and so much
teaching and instruction here at the fountain head,
that the people have been, as it were, flooded with 
light, and perhaps have forgotten or neglected to 
appreciate the great and choice blessings that lay 
all about them, until they were almost spurned.
Now they are willing to gather up the fragments 
and find upon them, and are almost left in dark-

[Column 2]

ness, to grope about for blessings that were once 
poured out upon them in rich abundance.
	There is and must be a purpose in all this, and
by and bye it will be evident; in the meantime
the Saints must trust in God, and wait His good
pleasure to deliver them from the thraldom which
has gradually come upon them, and which seems
to fasten itself more securely as time goes on,
threatening them with complete bondage. Justice
seems to have fled from the courts; there is no
longer any hopes entertained, by those who are
accused, of obtaining a fair trial, The jury is in-
structed to convict, and a trial is almost a farce.
There is such a feeling of hostility and hatred to-
ward any Mormon who is arraigned in the courts,
who has fidelity to principle and honors his coven-
ants, that it seems impossible for those who hold
the scales of justice to show even a semblance of
the elements of that grand attribute. Things of
this kind have been going on from bad to worse,
until one would really suppose they had reached
the climax, but the people have looked in vain for
this denouement, and the conclusion forces itself
upon the mind that human effort is utterly unavail-
ing. The most eloquent and earnest pleadings of
the finest lawyers in the land, bringing to bear
with their clear cut words the logic of the law
itself, as established by precedent and usage, are
all of no avail in this relentless crusade upon the
Mormon people, who are on trial for a religious
principle. The heartrending pictures of desola-
tion and misery presented in the ruined homes,
where the mother and little ones are left without
protection, touches not the hearts of these merci-
less enforcers of "the law." What care they for
the destruction they are spreading far and wide,
while it is only Mormons who suffer? What have
the Mormons done to them that they should thus 
pitilessly pursue them? They have made the
desert habitable for them; they have so manipu-
lated the affairs of the Territory of Utah, that
it has become a desirable place for the office seeker
and money maker; and this class having become
possessed of the idea that Utah has vast resources
that might be appropriated to the base purposes,
of aggrandizement and luxuriance, for those who
might, by chicanery and political intrigue, wrest it
from the tillers of the soil, the honest husband-
men, and those who redeemed and subdued it, and
have since prospered in the land, making them-
selves "families as a flock," with homes and inherit-
ances, and they are determined to leave no means
untried to accomplish their designss. But they are
assuredly "reckoning without their host." They
cannot have taken into consideration that they are
fighting against God.
	The Lord had a purpose in bringing His people
into these valleys. He knew the strength of these
hills and mountains, that form, as it were, a fortress
as formidable as the walls of Jericho; He has not
done this in vain; He knew the treasures that
were hidden away in the secret places of the
mountains, the gold and silver and precious metals,
and it was reserved for the building up and beauti-
fying of Zion. The Gentiles may hunt for these
hidden treasures, but their search will be compara-
tively fruitless, and disapointment will be their lot:
and in the due time of the Lord will He make
manifest His power in the deliverance of His
Saints, and it will no more be said, "The Lord
liveth who brought His people out of the land of
Egypt," etc. In the meantime humility and meek-
ness are necessary, and an implicit trust in the
divine guidance, faithfulness and devotion, with
the most earnest efforts and endeavors to live
nearer to God and keep His commandments.


[Column 1]	
	EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE expect some notes , from the funeral ser-
vices of Mrs. King for the next number of the
paper.
	THE minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. Conference

[Column Two]
of this Stake have not yet reached us, but will
likely be published in our next issue.

	"THE Final State of Mankind, as Demonstrated
by the Prophecies of the Old and New Testa-
ments, also the Book of Mormon and the Doc-
trine and Covenants of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints," by Elder John
Sears, is in pamphlet form, neatly gotten up, and
published by Joseph Hyrum Parry and Co. The
contents have been carefully examined by compe-
tent authority, we are informed by the author, and
webelieve it may do much good. It plainly sets
forth important truths, of which corroborative testi-
mony is given in the three books mentioned. Our
young people should take pains to gather such
information for their own benefit and the good of
others, that they may be able, when called upon,
to bring forth strong reasoning. This little work of
36 pages is excellent reading, and cannot fail to 
be interesting to all who delight in spiritual things
and in obtaining a knowledge of the dealings of
our Father in Heaven with His children. It opens 
with a poem by the author in five verses, which
gives an idea of the contents of the book, and is
very well and smoothly written. There is a neat,
well-written preface, in which he states that he
does not set himself up as a "teacher of some
newly discovered truths, but to place in a simple
and honest manner, those glorious principles em-
anating from the Fountain of Light, which he
trusts will have a tendency to illuminate the path
of those who may peruse it, opening up to their
minds the prospect of a happy future, and the
rich reward in store for those who serve God and
keep His commandments while passing through 
this state of probation."
	WE have received, with the compliments of C. 
R. Savage of the Art Gallery in this city, a very
handsome little book, entitled, "In Memoriam"—
Helen Hunt Jackson (H. H. ) It is printed on
exquisitely fine paper and tied with white ribbon.
It looks outside like an emblem of purity, and it
contains in its leaves a picture of the lady herself,
though it is not half so good looking as Mrs.
Jackson—she was a magnificent woman in person-
al appearance—and a picture of her grave at Pine
Hill Forest in the Cheyenne Mountains, another 
of the Cheyenne Mountain near Colorado Springs
and the late residence of this celebrated author.
The description of the place was written by Mr. 
Crawford, and is in the most beautiful language,
but as we have already published two or three
descriptions of her resting place from different 
writers, we will only select the closing lines from
her own gifted pen:

	"Dear hearts whose love has been so sweet to know,
	That I am looking backward as I go.
	Am lingering while I haste, and in this rain
	Of tears of joy am mingling tears of pain;
	Do not adorn with costly shrub or tree,
	Or flower, the little grave which shelters me.
	Let the wild, wind-sown seeds grow up unharmed,
	And back and forth all summer unalarmed,
	Let all the tiny, busy creatures creep;
	Let the sweet grass its last year's tangles keep;
	And when remembering me you come some day,
	And stand there, speak no praise, but only say,
	'How she loved us! It was for that she was so dear;
	These are the only words that I shall smile to hear."

	TUESDAY, September 21st, the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Union Ward held their annual meeting, Mrs.
Sarah Buxton presiding, assisted by her Counsel-
ors, Mrs. Della Brady and Miss Mary L. Charles.
After singing, prayer and singing, the Secretary,
Miss A. M. E. B. Sharp read the minutes of the 
organization, and the statistical and financial re-
port for the two years past, it being a complete
report since the date of its organization. The
showing was very good both in the interest of im-
provement and practical benevolent work. The
Secretary also read written resignations from the
Assistant Secretary and Treasurer, who were no


longer able, on accout of circumstances, to fill the
positions, and Mrs. E. B. Sharp was appointed
Assistant Secretary, and Miss Ellen C. Anderson
Treasurer, which made the organization again
complete. A mannscript paper, called "The Well
