[Vol1 | February 1914 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: PAGE Address 1 Genealogy]
address UNIVERSITY OF UTAH.
Salt Lake City.
Utah.
SUPPORT HOME INDUSTRY Ask your dealer for Z.
C.
M.
I.
Factory School Shoes for boys they keep the feet warm and dry.
Men's solid Shoes serviceable for the farmer, the laborer, the mechanic.
Try our Summit, Bannock, Wyoming or West= ern Scout Shoes.
We manufacture the famous **Mountaineer" or "The Leader" Overalls ask for them.
HOTEL XJTAH:
500 Rooms.
Fireproof Opened June 8, 1911 "The very best of every, thing at sensible prices." Rates for room without bath $1.50 and $2.00.
With bath $2. 50 per day and upwards.
Under the Management of GEORGE O.
RELF BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Board Society General FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch
207 Salt Lake City Utah RELIEF SOCIETY HOME FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS ROOMS REASONABLE Employment Bureau in connection with home.
36 West North Temple St.
Phone Wasatch 4478 J.
Star Printing Company
35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake Citi), Utah "Big Oaks From Little Acorns Grow" ''the story of the hot scotch pie IN SIX CHAPTERS CHAPTER ONE JUST THIRTY YEARS AGO With a little old fashioned "pie can," on the corner of First South and Main Streets, T.
H.
Morrison introduced his now famous "Hot Scotch Meat Pie" to Salt Lake's lovers of good things to eat.
The beginning was humble, but, like all great things, it began in a humble way, and surely but steadily won its way into the hearts (and stomachs) of the people, with the result that TODAY, MORRISON HOT SCOTCH PIES ARE A HOUSEHOLD WORD You'll find them served with their inimitable flavor and  crisp brown crust, in every up-to-date restaurant Get the Morrison Hot Scotch Pie habit it's a healthy habit,  buy them where y ou see our card take them home for the  evening meal but be sure they'er Morrison's Hot Scotch Pies. **BETTER THINGS TO EAT'* TWO PLACES CIORNER MAIN & 1st SO.
158 SOUTH MAIN ST.
WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY Have they the proper protection in case of sickness or death of your bread winner or will you be compelled to look for charity?
Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection?

--- Poem from NIBLEY RICHARD W. ---
NIBLEY RICHARD W.
YOUNG Member Ex.
Com.

--- CORRECTION. ---
CORRECTION.
In the opening sentence of the lesson statement, for first lesson, an erroneous application of verse 17, 1st chap, of Luke, was inadvertently made by the writer, who keenly regrets its publication.
A reading of the text clearly shows that the matter relates to an important feature of the mission of John the Baptist. i THIKD MEETING Ten Minutes' Talk on Current Topics.

--- FERTILIZERS. ---
FERTILIZERS.
A soil which does not need enriching to produce the best results is rarely, if ever, found, so the degree of success we attain is usually in proportion to the liberality with which fertilizers have been used.
10 Well decomposed stable manure, where straw bedding has been used is the best; that where sawdust has been used is not 80 good.
Often wood ashes, at the rate of one peek up to one bushel per square rod will be of great benefit.
Commercial fertilizers are excellent and may be used at the rate of four to twelve pounds to the square rod.
A mass or lump of any of the commercial fertilizers, even if it is not over a quarter of an inch in diameter, is liable to kill any seed or young plant which comes in direct contact with it, so it is very important that they be thoroughly pulverized and mixed with the soil.

--- PREPARATION OF THE SOIL. ---
PREPARATION OF THE SOIL.
Rich soil and liberal manuring will avail little without thorough preparation of the soil.
It must be made friable by thorough and judicious working; if it is neglected only partial success is possible, and that at the cost of a great deal of hard work.
The garden should be well ploughed or dug to a good depth, taking care, if it is a clay soil, that the work is not done when it is too wet.
If a handful from the furrow moulds with slight pressure into a ball which can not be easily crumbled into fine earth again, the soil is too wet, and if stirred then, will be hard to work all summer.
The surface should be made as fine and smooth as possible with the harrow or rake.
It is generally necessary to plough the whole garden at once, and to do this in time for the earliest crops, but the part which is not planted for some time should be kept mellow by frequent cultivation.

--- PLANTING PROPERLY. ---
PLANTING PROPERLY.
There is no greater source of disappointment and failure among amateur gardeners than hasty, careless or improper sowing of the seed.
To secure germination, moisture, heat and a certain amount of air are necessary.
The first steps are the softening of the hard outer shell from the absorption of the water, and the changing of plant food from the form of starch to that of sugar.
In the first condition the food is easily preserved, but the plant cannot use it while in its sugary condition it is very easily appropriated, but perishable, and if not used it speedily decays itself and causes decay in the plant.
A dry seed may retain its vitality and remain unchanged for years, but after germination has commenced, a check of a day or two in the process may be fatal.
There is no time in the life of the plant when it is so susceptible to fatal injury from the overabundance or want of sufficient heat and moisture as at that:  between the commencement of germination and the formation of the first true leaves, and it is just then that it needs the aid of the gardener to secure favorable conditions.
Therefore, the following must be kept in mind First: A proper and constant degree of moisture.
The soil should always be moist, never wet.
