[Vol1 | February 1914 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Guide | Title: Home Gardening - Soil Preparation and Planting]

SOIL.
A fair degree of success may be secured from any soil which can be made rich and pliable, but the very best results are obtained from a deep rich sandy loam. There are very few plants that do well on barren sand, a cold, hard, lumpy clay or in the shade of orchard or other trees.

FERTILIZERS.
A soil which does not need enriching to produce the best results is rarely, if ever, found, so the degree of success we attain is usually in proportion to the liberality with which fertilizers have been used. Well decomposed stable manure, where straw bedding has been used is the best; that where sawdust has been used is not so good. Often wood ashes, at the rate of one peck up to one bushel per square rod will be of great benefit. Commercial fertilizers are excellent and may be used at the rate of four to twelve pounds to the square rod. A mass or lump of any of the commercial fertilizers, even if it is not over a quarter of an inch in diameter, is liable to kill any seed or young plant which comes in direct contact with it, so it is very important that they be thoroughly pulverized and mixed with the soil.

PREPARATION OF THE SOIL.
Rich soil and liberal manuring will avail little without thorough preparation of the soil. It must be made friable by thorough and judicious working; if it is neglected only partial success is possible, and that at the cost of a great deal of hard work. The garden should be well ploughed or dug to a good depth, taking care, if it is a clay soil, that the work is not done when it is too wet. If a handful from the furrow moulds with slight pressure into a ball which can not be easily crumbled into fine earth again, the soil is too wet, and if stirred then, will be hard to work all summer. The surface should be made as fine and smooth as possible with the harrow or rake. It is generally necessary to plough the whole garden at once, and to do this in time for the earliest crops, but the part which is not planted for some time should be kept mellow by frequent cultivation.

PLANTING PROPERLY.
There is no greater source of disappointment and failure among amateur gardeners than hasty, careless or improper sowing of the seed. To secure germination, moisture, heat and a certain amount of air are necessary. The first steps are the softening of the hard outer shell from the absorption of the water, and the changing of plant food from the form of starch to that of sugar. In the first condition the food is easily preserved, but the plant cannot use it while in its sugary condition it is very easily appropriated, but perishable, and if not used it speedily decays itself and causes decay in the plant. A dry seed may retain its vitality and remain unchanged for years, but after germination has commenced, a check of a day or two in the process may be fatal. There is no time in the life of the plant when it is so susceptible to fatal injury from the overabundance or want of sufficient heat and moisture as at that between the commencement of germination and the formation of the first true leaves, and it is just then that it needs the aid of the gardener to secure favorable conditions.

Therefore, the following must be kept in mind: First: A proper and constant degree of moisture. The soil should always be moist, never wet. This is secured by making the surface of the freshly dug soil so fine and the pressing it over the seeds so firmly with the feet or the back of a hoe that the degree of moisture remains as nearly uniform as possible. Second: A proper degree of heat secured by sowing the seed when the temperature of the soil is that most favorable to the germination of the seed of the particular plant we wish to grow. Too high a temperature is often as detrimental as one which is too low. As every crop varies in this particular, the gardener should make a careful study of the requirements of each variety he wishes to plant. Such information is usually found on the seed package or in seed catalogues. Third: Covering the seed to such a depth that while a uniform degree of heat and moisture is preserved, the necessary air can readily reach the germinating seed, and the tiny stem push the forming leaves into the light and air. This depth will vary with the different seeds and conditions of the soil, and can be learned only by practical experience. Some very fine seeds and spores are sowed on the top of moist soil, others barely covered while others such as sweet peas, are planted very deep. Fourth: The soil should be in such a condition that the ascending stem can easily penetrate it and the young roots speedily find suitable food. This is usually secured by thorough preparation of the soil before planting.
