Of Interest to Women
Lalene H. Hart
Many inquiries have come concerning the making of jellies and jams, the reasons for some successes and many failures, and the preservation of canned fruits and vegetables. Some of these questions have been answered in previous articles, but for the benefit of those who may be new subscribers to the Magazine a few general suggestions are given. There are various reasons for failures, some of which may easily be avoided. One is that fruit is used which does not contain enough pectin, the jelling substance, or that the fruit is too ripe when used. A test which the housewife can make to determine whether there is enough pectin in the fruit is to combine a tablespoon of cold, cooked juice with an equal amount of alcohol. If it forms into a gelatinous mass it will make jelly. Some kinds of plums, apples, currants and grapes contain a large amount of pectin. The different kinds of berries cannot be depended on. Sometimes they are satisfactory, other times not. Fruits that have a good flavor have to be combined with other fruits or commercial pectin. There are many combinations that are delicious. The housewife can use such of the fruit she has at hand in the combinations of flavors she likes best. The use of commercial pectin, by the unskilled, eliminates failures. For all its use saves time and energy and worry, and utilizes fruit that perhaps otherwise would be wasted. Some housewives have asked if it is expensive to use. Everything taken into consideration, it is not. More sugar is required with the same amount of juice if used in the ordinary way, but the final product is double the amount. Then, too, the minimum time required for cooking diminishes the cost of fuel. In most places, some kind of fruit can be obtained the year round, and if one's supply of jelly or jam is exhausted it can be replenished at any time of year. In jelly-making, as in other food preparations, the material used will determine the result. Some housewives think when fruit cannot be used for anything else, good jelly or jam can be made. Not so, it is economy to buy the best kind for the desired use. However, any kind of fruit, especially berries that are a bit overripe and cannot be used as well for serving fresh, will make as good a preserved product as firmer ones. Inferior fruit is deficient in flavor. A few steps in the general process of jelly making may help the inexperienced. Pick over carefully and wash fruit. It is not necessary to peel or stone or stem the fruit, but cut large kinds


into small pieces that it may cook evenly. Cook until pulp is soft, in as little water as possible. Pour into a muslin or flannel jelly bag, and let drip over night. Do not squeeze pulp if a clear sparkling jelly is desired. It is better to make two grades. If juice is not very thick when thoroughly cold, boil rapidly ten to fifteen minutes to evaporate surplus water, measure and add sugar in equal parts for fruits such as grapes, blue plums or currants. Some other kinds only require three-fourths as much sugar. Cook rapidly until when dropped from the spoon it is thick and the drops are about the size of a pea. Never let jelly simmer or it may turn to syrup. Do not cook more than a quart at one time in the same vessel, a smaller amount is preferable. Pour jelly into hot sterilized glasses and seal with paraffin while hot. If necessary, when cold, add a thin coating of paraffin. This method is more sure of keeping dust and bacteria out. The method of making jam and preserves is practically the same, except seeds, stones, etc., are removed, and the juice is not strained. Only three-fourths as much sugar as pulp is required. When commercial pectin is used the proportions are different. Follow directions carefully, unless by experiment you have found different proportions equally as good, which is the case with some kinds of fruit. As to the use of preservatives in fruit and vegetables, it is not to be recommended. If properly processed in canning, and perfectly fitting lids and jars are used, there need be little trouble in keeping them. It is true that perfectly new lids and rubbers will sometimes cause trouble because they are inferior. The foods will keep perfectly by use of the preservative, but they may not comply with the pure food law or be conducive to good health. If, however, vegetables especially, do spoil they should be disposed of in other ways than feeding to chickens; they may or may not survive. These suggestions will not be printed in time for many to use them but may be of some help another season.
New potatoes will scrape more easily if allowed to stand a short time in water to which a little common soda has been added. They do not stain the hands as readily, if treated this way?Mrs. N. R., McCammon, Idaho.

To keep food in a cool place, when ice could not be obtained, I found a water-cooler very satisfactory. Make a frame, as for a cupboard, with the desired number of shelves. Cover all with a canvas, put a pan of water on top. Put pieces of cloth in the water and let them hang down on all sides so as to keep the canvas constantly wet. The evaporation of the moisture keeps the food cool.?Mrs. L. P. B., Rigby, Idaho.