The Master Key By Minnie Iverson Hodapp.
I. OUR COUSIN FROM UTAH
There was an unusual flutter of joy in our home that day, due to an unexpected letter containing an unexpected message. Father was standing in the doorway, his arms complacently folded, while a comfortable smile gradually brightened all his features. Harold continued playing with the white kitten in the dooryard, telling his pet over and over that there was great news. At that moment, I should have been upstairs sweeping the bedrooms. Instead, I was loitering below, broom in hand, to talk things over with Father and Grandma:
Grandma Ingles, after polishing her glasses, said, "I want to go over that letter again. I didn't get all the good out of it the first time."
Father handed the letter to her. Skipping the head lines, she read aloud:
My dear Uncle Harvor and Family: "In compliance with the request made by the leaders of my Church, I have accepted a call to go as a Latter-day Saint missionary to New Zealand. My boat shall leave Vancouver July 1. "According to my schedule, I shall have a week in which to visit you in your woodland home in the state of Washington. Father is well pleased that I shall have this opportunity of meeting my uncle and cousins. His feelings are warm as ever toward you all. "We received the picture of Harold and his pony. The forest scene is enchanting. "Mother wishes me to make sure that my intended visit is agreeable with you. "Nothing hindering, I shall be with you soon. "Yours in good faith, "Sterling Westover."
"P. S. Inclosed find my photo. Study it carefully, in order to be able to identify the original when you shall see him.
"I'll know him," said Father. "He so much resembles his dad."
"I've never heard you say much about Uncle Steve," said I.
"That's so," said Father. "Steve was always a jolly, fine old brother. He accepted the principles of 'Mormonism' in his youth and left us all, for we were against him. Zealous soul. He stood firmly by his new faith in prophets and patriarchs and divine revelation. For consolation he used to sing:
"Do what is right, Let the consequence follow."
THE MASTER KEY 455
"Seems to me that's good doctrine for any one of us," said I to father.
"Yes it is," said Father. "Steve did what he knew to be right, and now we see the consequences. His firstborn child has grown up and turned missionary, and is now going abroad to teach and preach the principles of his father's faith."
Father's voice became almost confidential. "As for me, I clung to the faith of my parents in a luke-warm sort of way just to please mother, then later to please my wife. Neither one of them would hear of my joining with the 'Mormons'. Today I am reaping as I have sown."
"What are you reaping, Father?" I queried curiously.
"You may better ask your own heart, daughter," said he. "Gertrude, you are now nearly nineteen years old, what is your established religious belief?"
"No established creed," said I, adding blithely, "just a little of everything. Like the honey-bee I try to gather nectar from every sweet flower that blows."
"Just so," nodded father, "but where is your foundation? What about a substantial rock upon which to build?"
Not caring to answer these blunt questions, I rushed over to the writing-table and took up the pen. "What shall I tell Cousin Sterling for you?" asked I.
"Tell him that my heart and home are standing wide open to him," said he.
"Yes, and tell his mother that we shall be glad to receive Sterling," added Grandma.
After that letter had been posted, everything we did seemed to project toward the comfort of our expected visitor. One night at sunset, Harold bounded toward the gate and was seen hugging and kissing a strange gentleman. Pulling him toward the door, he introduced him as "my cousin from Utah." "Not so swift, youngster," said the man. "I'm only around in the interest of a new cream separator."
A day or two later, Harold almost compelled a book-binder to answer as our cousin from Utah. Then, one day when we were thinking least about him, in walked a tall, handsome youth. By his frank, blue eyes and honest smile we knew him for our own true cousin.
Grandma Ingles began laying the table-cloth at once. That was her dear, house-wifely way of welcoming anyone. "Why it's Steve over again to be sure," said father. He seemed completely captivated by the presence of his fine, young nephew. Little Harold ran for his bright tin pail and made us promise him a day in the woods black-berrying with cousin Sterling.


"Tomorrow morning," specified Harold.
To this there was not a dissenting voice. Few and pleasant were the preliminaries for our day in the woods. While Grandma Ingles was spreading sandwiches, Harold and I took Sterling to see the little log cabin that Father and Mother had built in the clearing long ago. It now served as a granary.
"What a fascinating history," said Sterling, gazing from the cabin to the big house where the honey-suckle twined.
Next we took him to see the mammoth tree from our farm in the clearing. It had been uprooted the year before and now. Lay a log "dry, bald and sere," but we were immensely proud of it. From the tree Harold spied a patch of field daisies. We found them waist-high amid the grasses. Sterling grew reminiscent and told us about the sego Lily, Sweet William, and Indian Paint Brush growing wild on the sage-brush plains at home.
'Twas an unforgettable day in the midst of the blackberries. We filled Harold's shining tin pail dozens of times.
"Blackberry pies for Cousin Sterling," laughed Harold.
And he was correct. That evening a few of our neighbors came in. We were proud of our cousin from Utah, and wanted them to know him.
"Friends," said my Father, "my nephew Sterling is a Latter-day Saint missionary. I want him to sing us a true 'Mormon' hymn."
So Sterling sang:
"We thank thee, O God, for a prophet To guide us in these latter days, We thank thee for sending the gospel To lighten our minds with its rays, We thank thee for every blessing Bestowed by thy bounteous hand, We feel it a pleasure to serve thee And love to obey thy command."
The three verses of this hymn portrayed the inner life of the true Latter-day Saint. After the party, several persons paused to shake hands with Sterling and thank him for his song. Little Harold, clinging to Sterling's hand, begged him to promise that he would go across the valley and sing to Aunt Sue.
"If your father is willing," said Sterling.
Of course father was willing. It was the opportunity toward which he had been looking forward. It gave him a chance to take Sterling for a ride in our splendid new car. How happy they both appeared! Aunt Sue liked the hymn, "O My Father," because, as she explained, it contains a sermon. Father joined in her enthusiasm THE MASTER KEY 457 and said his soul had been hungering for just such a doctrine for a long time. How strange of father to make such a remark! Time and time again quoted:
"I had learned to call thee Father, Through thy Spirit from on high; But until the key of knowledge. Was restored, I knew not why."
"Isn't that a gem, Gertrude?" he asked.
"I don't understand," said I.
"Likely not, my girl," said he. "The key of knowledge has reference to the principles of divine revelation."
I did not wish to mar Cousin Sterling's visit by any contrariness on my part. Therefore I acquiesced to father's joy.
The week of our missionary's visit ended quickly. We performed the farewell courtesy of taking Sterling to the wharf whence he was to sail up Puget Sound on his way to Vancouver.
Father's voice seemed to choke as he bade Sterling goodby. Harold burst out into loud sobs. Grandma and I felt touched and tender as we watched the boat now pushing farther and farther away from us.
Father alone was moved to speak. "You may depend upon one thing," said he. "Sterling Westover owns in his religion a vital spark, a gem, a pearl of great price which we do not possess."
2. ALOHA GARLANDS
Father kept turning in his mind the impressive features of Cousin Sterling's visit. Often he sang this snatch of a hymn:
"Open mine eyes that I may see Visions of truth thou hast for me, Place in my hand the wonderful key That shall unlock and set me free.'
Often Father tried to lead my thoughts toward "Mormon" doctrine and get me interested in gems of scripture, but I would not heed him. The main excuse for my indifference was the heavy course I was carrying at school. I was absorbed in my studies for I had an inspiring goal in view. By spring-time I had attained it. Home I came with my certificate from the Normal Training School. How proud and glad we all were! I also had a surprise for Father. It was my contract for a year's teaching in the government school in Hawaii.
"Is my little Gertrude going to the summer Isles?" said father.
"Your little Gertrude is twenty years old," said I. "She ought to try to work for herself."
Grandma Ingles, the only mother I had known for long 
 years, remonstrated with me. It was hard to withstand her tears, but I had already signed the contract and nothing could deter me.
The greater part of the Summer was spent in preparation for the trip. In the Month of August, I set sail on the steamer Makura, and in seven days arrived at Honolulu. When I. Set foot on the side-walk I half believed that a fairy rainbow had come down from the sky, so appeared the bright-hued strings and strings of flowers in the hands of the "lei-sellers." I now boarded the train which would take me to the village where I was due. Past fields of tender greenness, mile on mile! Past Oleander trees and acres of waving cane wound the little railroad car. At last we arrived at a small village on Oahu. The little green-painted school house stood in a "pai pa grove. One or two banana trees shaded the door-step. I roved down by the beach to catch a glimpse of my little pupils. A group of them were diving off the cliff into the "Beauty Hole." Ah, what experts in the water!
The next day I met the dear little brown-faced group in the school room. They were quiet and shy, but perhaps not more so than their teacher. The new situation seemed difficult, especially when I recalled. Harold's kisses, Grandma's tears, and father's patience. (My spirit was still at home with my dear ones.)
After school it was my wont to stand on the steps and gaze out toward the sea. The waves held out their long arms and ran blithely toward the beach. One day a Hawaiian mother beckoned to me from the taro field. I ran toward her. She placed a great wreath of fragrant white blossoms round my neck. "Aloha oe", she said sweetly.
When the moonlight shone on the wide sea, the little boys and girls took me to a Sea Shell party. We wandered up and down the strand gathering shells. I took the shells home and placed them on the table. They began moving off. Living shells! Whatever was I to do with them?
In the midst of my pleasures I was stricken with a dreadful neuralgia. The district physician, Dr. Edgar Young, was called to my aid. The sincere attention of Dr. Young was a comfort to me. I rallied from my sick spell to learn that I had made a true and lasting friend. Dr. Young continued his calls, but with a different motive, of course. As the weeks passed into months, we had many a joyous evening together. On Saturday we took a trip over the "Pali", another time we visited the caves. One beautiful night we strolled for miles along the beach and saw the distant light house.
The esteem Dr. Young and I held for each other was budding into a flower of tenderest regard?aye a wonderful Blossom of Promise!
As Christmas day approached a boat from the coast came bringing me greetings and letters from home. Ah, 'tis sweet, very sweet, to be remembered! On Christmas eve I sat up reading letters until midnight. As I closed my eyes, I could see the dear, smiling faces of my kindred and friends at home. I awoke as in a dream to the entrancing sound of silvery mandolins and mellow guitars under my window. The Hawaiian serenaders! What sway over the heart their rich outpour of harmony! 1 was unutterably happy. No friends could be truer, nearer, dearer, than those beloved and loving Hawaiians in their blessed mood of song! = During Christmas day I roamed the beach hand in hand with my little dark-eyed Hawaiian pupils. The billows, spreading their sky-blue veils, danced in the sunshine. Blithely the little ones sang: i "The winds from over the sea Sing softly Aloha to me!" That. Evening I 'attended a beautiful Christmas party in a Hawaiian garden. My light dress and the fragrant violet wreath I wore, made me think more of springtime than of Christmas until Edgar mentioned the pine trees at home. "Ah, yes," I answered wistfully, "but this is no time to be climbing snow-drifts." "No," said he "This is the season fair of rose-hued dreams, of trust and loveliness and high romance!" Why did my inmost heart so thrill to these words? They seemed to breathe the sacred aroma of a dream near-realized. That night after the party, I listened to the "sweetest story ever told," and I answered my lover's simple confession with guileless faith. "Aloha" had surely come into our hearts, and linked our young souls in bliss. E O loveliness of balm and breeze ~ O white and blue and summer seas,? So blithe with fond enwreathing smile Encircling fair my summer isle! I would my simple words might tell The meaning of the miracle, The inner peace naught canst destroy Ah, Dream of dreams, "Aloha Oc." Dwelling in this realm of roseate happiness, I was illy prepared for the shock that came presently. My father wrote that he had joined the "Mormon" Church and had gone to Utah. I did not know what to make of it. In my grief, I clung more 
 closely to my steadfast lover. He comforted me unspeakably, although, like myself, he felt to revolt at my father's act of joining the "Mormon" church. "Perhaps we'll retaliate by surprising him with the news of our marriage," said Edgar. It was not to be done in the spirit of retaliation, however. I wrote and told father our plans quite in detail. He appreciated my confidence and wrote a letter charged with loving counsel and devotion. He must have been thinking of the "Mormon" religion all the time, for he said, '""My regret is that the nature of your marriage ceremony is not binding for time and all eternity. The covenant you are about to enter into is valid for this life only?_ till death doth part." To this I merely smiled. The following June, Edgar and I were married in a beautiful Hawaiian rose-bower. Wishing us joy, the minister said, "Sweethearts, be happy in your happiness." Not even a passing thought did we give to those solemn words, "Till death doth part." 3. SUNSHINE AND SHADOW. Rosy child Gleeful, wild Restless, eager or mild, My constant, my warm-hearted lover! Joyous ray, On my way, How I bless the gear day I earned the sweet title of Mother! More than four years had passed since Sterling's first visit to our home bringing the message that had divided our family and had taken father from us. (I never could quite forgive Sterling.) Edgar and I were living in California now within easy reach of relatives, yet we saw them rarely. ? As I lay with my beautiful firstborn child on my arm, I wished yearningly that father were nearer to share our happiness. Edgar wished the same, and often expressed it. While I lay thus meditating on family affairs, the nurse came in, all smiles. After her came Father, also all smiles. Bending over the babe and me he kissed us and said: "Daughter, I can never wish you any greater happiness than this." Edgar came home, and we all rejoiced together. The hours slipped by magically. I was awakened by a shock when Father said: "I must go tomorrow morning." "Tomorrow morning!" I cried. "I had supposed you would remain with us several weeks." "I'm on my way to Australia to fulfil-a mission," he explained. THE MASTER KEY 46" "How peculiar!" said I, thinking aloud.. Father smiled knowingly. "Yes, daughter. I am now numbered among God's peculiar people," said he. "No wonder my conduct seems strange and new to you. It is only natural and right that I shall fulfil a mission." "Tell me something concerning your belief, Father,' said I. (This was the first time I had ever asked him anything concerning it.) Looking upon my sleeping babe, he said, "We believe that when a woman has earned the sweet title of Mother, her child ought to belong to her thoughout time and all eternity." "How do you know whether or not this child is mine for all eternity?" said I in agitation. Father answered calmly. "Do not feel hurt, Gertrude. When husband and wife are married in God's Holy Temple, they belong to each other forever, and the children that come to them are theirs forever."  "I'm living here and now," said I. "Here and now is all I care to concern myself about." "Here and now is a most vital period,' said father, "for all who dwell on earth. We, as mortals, are truly in a state of probation for that which is to follow." I cared so little for Father's strange doctrine that I was glad to keep our conversation on other subjects during the remainder of his visit.. A few days after Father had taken leave of us, Edgar complained of a severe pain under his left arm. Examining we found a small lump embedded in the arm pit. My husband went at once to some noted specialist who said, "We can remove the growth, my friend. You'll be well again within a month." So we arranged for an operation at once to "shell out" the vicious lump from its precarious location. The specialists met, and without delay, removed it. We now hoped for a rosy horizon after our hour of distress. Alas, within three weeks, the lump was back again in the same place, three times bigger than the original had been!  "Is it tumor?" I asked in a whisper.: "Yes," said Edgar hoarsely. (He had bravely kept it from me until now.) We made rapid preparations to enter a Sanatorium in Michigan. But upon arriving there we received a stunning blow? "In your condition, you must acquaint yourself with the fact that your remaining life upon this earth is not very long." "It is as I said supposed," answered Edgar, trying to be calm for my sake.  Oh, the nights of sleepless watching and anguish of soul! 
 In our extremity, there came to us a "healer" who promised to burn the sore away with a powerful caustic.. "It looks like a faint gleam of possible hope, "Then do try it,' I urged. So he submitted himself to this severe ordeal, which, instead of curing, brought him very low. Yet, even in his exhausted state, he whispered words of consolation, strange counsel coming from his heart: "Listen to the words of your father, Dearest. Search his strange doctrine. It soothes my soul to fancy that we two may be united as husband and wife for all eternity." Solemnly I promised that I would inquire diligently into my father's faith. Although so weak and worn, my husband lingered many weeks. He had time to dictate a letter to his dear child. "Save it for him, Dearest, until he shall be old enough to read it himself." Part of the letter said, "My heart's dearest desire is that I shall still have my wife and child in this same dear relationship in the eternal world." After the last tender farewell had been uttered and my life-companion was gone from me, these sad, sad words rang through my mind, "Till death doth part. Till death doth part."
MY SEARCH FOR THE LIGHT
I had never quite forgiven cousin Sterling for bringing to our home the gospel message that took father away from us. In the days of my early widowhood, my thoughts toward Sterling were bitter and upbraiding. From my home in California I wrote him a letter of chiding and reproach. Said in part: "Your influence has gone out against me. Father believed in you implicitly. You succeeded in converting him to 'Mormonism.' In this sad hour when I need him, where is he? In far off Australia carrying your gospel message to sever kindred ties and to divide homes." I did not expect a reply to this letter. I did not plan on meeting cousin Sterling again in my life. Therefore it was a surprise when he came to my home in California. He greeted me kindly and his whole manner was full of patience and brotherly love. Not in any way did he wound my sensitive feelings. He did not mention one word of religion. In soothing tone, he counselled rest and change of scene. Without trying to be interested I listened while cousin Sterling told all about Beatrice and Baby Beatrice?his wife and their child. When he was through, he began all over again, for he could not say enough about them. I longed to see the dimpled baby and compare her with my own sweet cherub, said Edgar.
THE MASTER KEY 463
I could picture cousin Sterling's home in southern Utah. The scene seemed almost familiar from his words. There was the modest gray house set back in a spacious yard and surrounded by ash and apple trees. At the front lilacs and snow-balls bloomed, and an inviting path led to the sunny, smiling meadow where the cattle grazed. "I wonder, Gertrude, if you and baby would like to spend the Summer with Beatrice and me on our Home-ranch?" said Sterling. "Why not?" "Why not?" These words re-echoed themselves while I dallied with my purpose many days. "Yes, I'll go," said I at last. We were soon on our way. Leaving the orange groves, a night's journey brought us to the sage-brush plains of southern Utah. We stepped into an auto which took us winding over hills and along dug-ways until we came at last to Sterling's home. The settlement consisted of a number of farm houses with a white painted school house in their midst. The river ran through a deep rocky gorge while the creek girdled the farms in a fair winding curve. Each day I walked along the creek-side for miles and miles watching the smoothly gliding waters. Often I sat on the bank holding my darling babe and amusing him by casting pebbles. On Sundays I attended church with Sterling and family, there being no other diversion for me. When the first Sunday in June arrived, Sterling and Beatrice observed it as "Fast Day." Somehow I felt that I wished to fast, too. They did not urge me at all, neither did they discourage me. Of my own free will I fasted and prayed for divine light and guidance. What an epoch was that day in my life! During the afternoon I sat in the midst of a congregation of Latter-day Saints and listened to their testimonies. A spirit of deep calm and peace filled my soul. One dear, grey-haired mother rose and said that she had been acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, back in the days of old Nauvoo. She testified that his mission was God-appointed, and, that in dying a martyr, he sealed his testimony with his blood. A modest school-girl rose and said: "My dear friends, let us read the Book of Mormon often and well. It is an unusual book, having been translated from plates of gold that were brought forth out of the hill Cumorah. These plates of gold had lain hidden in the hill Cumorah fourteen hundred years. They were guarded by an angel of God. Finally they were translated by the gift and power of God." These words so impressed me that I desired to read the Book of Mormon.


"Read the last chapter first," suggested Cousin Sterling. I was puzzled to know his meaning, but I turned to the last chapter and found this promise in the Book of Moroni, chapter 10:3-4: "Behold, I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your hearts. "And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost." Having been admonished in this solemn manner, I read the Book of Mormon reverently, prayerfully, and with "real intent." It was line upon line and precept upon precept with me. As a thirsty plant receives the dews of heaven, so my soul absorbed those precious, doctrinal lessons. When I had finished the book, I said to Sterling, "Father is justified in his course. God bless him. 'Tis I alone who am at fault." "Not all come into the kingdom in the same hour," said Sterling. "You must not chide yourself, Gertrude." I wrote and told father my intention of embracing the gospel. He counseled me to weigh and consider the problem deeply, and make haste slowly. I studied the principles of faith and repentance and the ordinances of baptism by immersion, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. How blessed the day that I embraced the gospel, and, with full purpose of heart, determined to live the life of a Latter-day Saint! More blessed was the day in which I was privileged to enter Zion's white-gleaming temple to be united in wedlock to my dear, departed companion. My cup of blessing seemed overflowing in the hour when our dear son was sealed to Edgar and me?our child for all eternity! In due time, I wrote and told Grandma Ingles all about my conversion. For Harold's sake she is becoming an earnest investigator. The dear child prays that we all shall be reunited under one roof when father returns from Australia. The mists are clearing away. A new day is dawning for our family. Shall we dwell together in Zion? And shall Zion be Zion unto us? This is my cherished hope. Then, in sweet unison, we shall sing the words of Eliza R. Snow: "I had learned to call thee Father Through thy spirit from on high, But until the key of knowledge Was restored, I knew not why."
The End.