At Cedar Breaks By Kate Thomas
Alone with thy wide grandeur, Lord, I love thee! Thou hast made mine eyes to see thy beauty; Thou hast made mine ears keen in thy silence; Thou hast made my mind to reach out for thy glory And my heart to thrill at every glimpse of vision. Lo, in thy scale of wonders, what am I?
I may not tower as the beetling crag. I have no firmness as thy mighty rock. I have no breadth or depth like this great bowl, Spreading a thousand colors to the sun— A thousand varied moods in its stern stone, Rousing quaint curiosity with awe That aught so steadfast could so flippant be!
A jazz of giants from a Norseland myth Deck'd in gay rags that swing to ponderous tread. This is thine altar where I humbly kneel. This thy cathedral where a crowd finds room. This is a city deck'd with minarets.
Listen! Where yonder comes the call to prayer, Slowly the sun retreats to yon cool pine; The jazz is silent and the gay rags bend In meek obeisance at the holy cry.
Oh, never were such clouds to form a throne! Never such cold-lipped glory of thy smile! Alone, with thy magnificence, O Lord, My soul lies prostrate at thy gracious feet.
Sinful and wayward, let me lay my hand Upon the sacred turf where thou dost tread. All trusting, all unworthy, Lord, I love thee!
The Lost City of Nevada By Harrison R. Merrill, Brigham Young University
To one who has read the Book of Mormon, with some imagination, the finding of ancient ruins anywhere in America, indicative of a vanished race, cannot pass without exciting considerable curiosity. When, therefore, I read of the discovery of a lost city in southern Nevada I was burning with curiosity to see it.
During a visit I made to Panaca, Nevada, in the Spring of 1925, I had the good fortune to meet Governor J. G. Scrugham, of Nevada, who had been instrumental in the discovery of the prehistorical ruins which had been given the name of the Lost City. At that time he showed slides of the place and announced that a pageant depicting the past, as nearly as the ruins could tell the story, would be given that Spring on the site of the ancient pueblo itself. This pageant, he declared, was made possible through the generosity of John Jacob Chaloner, of New York City, a wealthy man who had become interested in the find and had donated sufficient money with which to carry on such a program. I determined then to see the Lost City sooner or later.
It was with no little pleasure, therefore, that I set out this Spring to visit this ancient place which was thought to antedate the Christian Era. We went by automobile to St. George and thence out through the desert to the famous land of a vanished race. My interest in the pageant which was to be presented during our visit was increased because of the fact that E. H. Eastmond, head of the art department and professor of pageantry at Brigham Young University, as upon the year previous, was to have charge of the great drama of the ages. I had heard of the great pageant of the year previous and knew Professor Eastmond to be an indefatigable worker, when he set his hand to a production.
I was accompanied by Oscar A. Kirkham, A. A. Anderson, Victor Lindblad, and William Hawkins and his father, Dr. Hawkins. All of these men are Scout workers and have a keen interest in Indian relics and Indian lore. We felt like modern Coronados in search of "the seven rich and wonderful cities of Cibola" as we pushed into the desert over the old trail discovered first by Jedediah S. Smith, in 1826.
Jedediah S. Smith, we later learned, had taken an active part in the discovery of the lost city, though his bones had whitened somewhere on the Cimarron river for nearly a century. It seems that while that Columbus of the western mountain ranges was THE LOST CITY OF NEVADA 445 making his first trip down the Virgin river toward California he had come upon a salt cave at the point where the Muddy river joins the Virgin, and had written of his discovery to General
PROFESSOR ELBERT H. EASTMOND
William Clark. This letter of Smith's dated Little Lake of Bear River, July 17, 1827, is to be found in a book called the Ashley-Smith Explorations, written by Harrison Clifford Dale.
In this letter, Mr. Smith says, "On the S. W. Side of the river there is a cave, the entrance of which is about 10 or 15 feet high, and 5 or 6 feet in width; after descending about 15 feet, a room opens out from 25 to 30 feet in length and 15 to 20 feet in width; the roof, sides, and floor are solid rock salt, a sample of which I send you, with some other articles which will be hereafter described."
It was the reading of this letter of Smith's a century later by Governor Scrugham that led to the discovery of the Lost City, according to Don "Louis" Shellbach, whom we met at the Lost City upon our arrival there. Mr. Shellbach also makes the assertion, in an article regarding the prehistoric city, which was published in the Arrowhead Magazine. It seems from Mr. Shellbach's account, that Governor Scrugham was so impressed by the Smith 
 letter that he decided to investigate the territory surrounding the salt mine, and thereby came upon the first of the discoveries which led to the uncovering of Pueblo Grande de Nevada, the Lost City, a sort of mythical city which had been mentioned by Bancroft and by other visitors, including "Mormon" pioneers to the Muddy valley.
In his letter Jedediah S. Smith also mentions some strange plants which he saw for the first time along his route near the Virgin river. He says, after describing the "cabbage pear," probably the pear known as the nail-keg cactus: "There are here, also, a number of shrubs and small trees with which I was not acquainted previous to my route here, and which I cannot at present describe satisfactorily as It would take more space than I can here allot."
As one voyages out into the desert, beyond the divide above Santa Clara, he can easily understand that reference in the trapper's letter, for certainly he will see some strange plants and shrubs. The grotesque Joshuas stand like misshapen gorillas along the roadside, and the mesquite, Mexican sword plant, chaparral and other plants make the place seem like a section of a new world. The solid rock mountains which rise from the plain in every direction do not detract at all from the weird atmosphere of the strange place.
When we reached St. Thomas, on the evening before the pageant, we found that already there was no room in the inn. People had come to the little city from many directions to witness the drama of the ages reenacted on the very soil that had seen the passing of many races of people. We found Professor Eastmond busy, but not too busy, as usual, to skip away to Bunkerville to aid somebody who needed his help. He had just returned and was feverishly getting things in shape for the dress rehearsal which was to occur that night. We stopped not for food, but went directly to the Lost City so eager were we to see the place that had attracted the attention of America, the new discovery of a lost civilization.
The sun was setting as we reached the ancient city, but fortunately Mr. Shellbach, an expert worker in the ruins, greeted us upon our arrival and immediately went with us to the latest discovery. We looked over the ruins with interest as Mr. Shellbach reconstructed for us the history of the past as best he could from the findings. He said the ruins, some of them, were probably 2,600 years old and that they showed that a succession of peoples had occupied the Lost City from time to time, one following the other. He said sufficient work had not been done to place the dates very exactly. It seems that peoples, in growing cultures, had followed each other in the valley. The quality of their culture was determined by the quality of the work they had left in the form of baskets THE LOST CITY OF NEVADA 447 and pottery. Many of the ancient inhabitants, buried in the center of their living rooms and preserved by the dry sands of the valley, were found still resting peacefully after hundreds of years which had seen one people after another pass away.
Mr. M. R. Harrington, archaeologist of the museum of the American Indian, Heye Foundation, and for the Smithsonian Institute, was in charge of the work of excavating the ruins. The ruins might have been disappointing to us had we not been prepared for what we found. Only a few inches of the walls of the prehistoric houses were still standing, and nearly all of the pottery and the baskets which had been found had been shipped away. It took but a little imagination, however, to repeople the little
THE GREAT PAGEANT AND ITS STAGE—LOST CITY OF NEVADA
valley and to rebuild the pueblos of the past, a pattern of which had been constructed by the Zuni Indians of New Mexico, brought in for the purpose, on the site of one of the ancient buildings.
When we returned to the stage upon which the mighty pageant of the ages was to be enacted on the following day, we found Professor Eastmond busy working out the plan of his lights. The Governor had caused a temporary electric light plant, operated by a tractor, to be established for the purpose of furnishing light for the pageant which was to be given at night. Indians and actors of all descriptions were already assembling for the dress rehearsal. The pageant was staged, about two miles from St. Thomas, on the site of the Lost City. The stage, a reconstructed play ground of the ancient people, was situated upon a sand dune. Around it were camped the Piutes and other Indians who had assembled to take part in the gigantic play. As we sat there under the Nevada stars with the sand which had probably polished the bones of a thousand people blowing in our eyes, with the modern 
 electric lights playing upon the newly erected ancient pueblos, I was struck with the uniqueness of the situation. Here were the Zunis, probable descendants of the ancient races; the Piutes who had probably driven out an earlier race and had taken possession of the land; the "Mormons" who had followed the Piutes into the Moapa valley, all working together to reconstruct the past. Above us played upon occasionally by the flood and spot lights, could be seen a representation of the Indian writings which are frequently found on the cliffs of the West, and above them was a huge electric sign spelling out the word NEVADA. Around us everywhere were Indians eagerly watching the proceedings, some of them dressed in their tribal ceremonial clothing ready for the stage.
After a while Professor Eastmond pronounced the lights to be right and the great play began. First came representatives of the earliest inhabitants. These lived and played and worked around their houses until a fiery arrow flaming down from the star-flecked sky announced the arrival of a new and warlike tribe. The
THE COMING OF THE SPANIARDS
early inhabitants attempted to withstand the onslaught, but were soon forced to seek another home. These invaders were in turn followed by the Spaniards under the direction of Escalante. These, disappointed at finding only ruins, soon tired of the deserted valley and returned to Mexico and to Spain.
THE LOST CITY OF NEVADA 449
In continuous succession the waves of people came, including Jedediah S. Smith and his company, the "Mormon" pioneers, and the Nevada commonwealth. As we sat there, history was revived, and the cost of modern Nevada was depicted in a way that will long be remembered. To witness this great pageant picturing the forgotten past, hundreds of people including a one-hundred piece band, came out of California in a long train of cars, and hundreds of automobiles gathered from near and far coming in on every winding road that led to St. Thomas. So gorgeous was the spectacle, so wonderful was the conception of the pageant, there under the stars above a
THE "MORMON" PIONEERS
races of people who were already sleeping in the blowing sands when Columbus first set his foot on the shores of America, so romantic was the situation and the presentation, that none was disappointed. It was a great occasion.
As yet the Lost City has given up few secrets which have added materially to the knowledge of ancient America, but there is no telling when "Truth will speak out of the dust." The coming of the "Mormons" hard upon the heels of Jedediah S. Smith was one of the most touching episodes of the great drama. When the fine old "Mormon" hymn, "Come, come ye Saints" broke from the lips of the bearded pioneers and their wives and children the entire audience was visibly affected. The drama asks one big question: Who will be the next people? The "Mormons" entered the valley and abandoned it, then they re- 
 turned and are still there. Other peoples have entered and are still there, but will they remain or will they be succeeded by another race? If history repeats itself, the answer echoes back from those hundreds of sand dunes which hide the vestiges of an ancient civilization. These present people will depart and will be followed by a superior race perhaps, or by an inferior race, maybe.
The Lost City of Nevada stretches up and down the Muddy river in the neighborhood of St. Thomas for about five miles. Only a few of the ruins have been uncovered. No man can say what will yet be found there. It is safe to predict, however, that no evidence of a very superior civilization will be found. The early inhabitants were not as far advanced in the arts and sciences as those who inhabited Mexico and Central America. Because, however, no such civilization was suspected in Nevada, the discovery is important.
The pageant prepared by, and largely composed by Professor Eastmond, with the assistance of the archaeologists, certainly has added much to the interest in and the understanding of the place. Whether the pageant will be perpetuated or not has not been announced, but next year, certainly, since it is the centennial of the visit of Jedediah S. Smith, the first white man to visit the place after the days of Escalante, there will be some sort of a celebration in the Moapa Valley.
Left: Sam Mahooty, Zuni Indian. Center: Don "Louis" Shellbach. Right: M. R. Harrington.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS
Assistant Manager - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine 
Vol. XIII SEPTEMBER, 1926 No. 9