Notes from the Field
Amy Brown Lyman
Kolob Stake Anniversary day was observed in the Kolob stake by holding in the various wards a practical work meeting. Each ward was asked by the stake board to make one quilt, sew some carpet and rug rags to be used in the stake for community welfare purposes, and to assist five over-burdened mothers with sewing, mending and darning. The meetings were held on Tuesday, March 16, and it was indeed an inspiring sight to see so many happy, busy women giving their services so willingly. The stake Relief Society presidency visited each ward during the afternoon. The program, which was given when the work was finished, was a progressive one, each ward furnishing one number and presenting it to the other wards of the stake. Following is a report of the total attendance and the total work accomplished in the six wards during the afternoon from one to five o'clock: Members in attendance, 325; visitors, 80; total, 405; work done for the stake: 9 quilts, complete, 5 quilt tops (blocks cut and sewed), 100 quilt blocks (cut and sewed), 90 pounds rags cut and sewed; work done for the over-burdened mothers: 3 ladies' dresses, 9 children's dresses, 3 boys' waists, 5 ladies' aprons, 1 lady's princess slip, 1 child's underskirt, 5 pairs bloomers, 1 pair boys' pants, 2 shirts, 3 night gowns, 1 layette, 37 pair stockings darned, and 6 pairs overalls, 1 pair pants, 1 shirt mended. Included in the above tabulation is the report from Thistle ward, which we repeat separately, inasmuch as this ward is the youngest in the stake, having been organized June 14, 1925, less than one year before this report was made: 1 quilt top complete and 1 set of blocks, 17 balls of rug rags; work for over-burdened mothers: 1 bloomer dress, 1 child's apron, 3 ladies' aprons; articles made for sale: 1 doily, 1 dresser scarf, 1 crochet yoke, 1 luncheon cloth, 2 handkerchiefs with crocheted borders.
Cottonwood Stake. An interesting contest in teachers' work in the Millcreek ward is reported by Maud Chegwidden, secretary: "Our ward has inaugurated a very interesting contest among the visiting teachers, which has proved very successful. We have forty teachers, which we divided into four groups, one teacher


from each group being appointed as leader of her team of ten. The duties of this leader are to visit her own district each month along with her companion, and also to be ready to visit any of the other four districts under her supervision, should one of that district's own teachers be unable to go. This teacher is therefore responsible for each home being visited by Relief Society teachers each month. She is also to see that the teachers use the topic given for conversation in the home, and that they obtain the necessary statistics from each Relief Society member regarding visits to or days spent with, the sick, and days spent in temple work?a part of the teachers' duties which we found very sadly neglected. We award each pair of teachers the number of points they have scored each month, our method of scoring being as follows: visit by both teachers, 10 points; visit by one teacher, 5 points; every home visited, 10 points; only part of homes visited, 5 points; statistics obtained, 10 points; total possible number of points each month, 30. If the supervising teacher substitutes for one of the regular teachers in the visiting, that pair of teachers, of course, only scores 5 points for the round of visits. We have made a large score card, which hangs on our meeting-room wall, and which is marked by our secretary every month. At the end of the year the reward comes. The two losing teams agree to entertain the two winning teams, and the officers of our Society are all fervently hoping for an invitation to the banquet also. A spirit of friendly competition or rivalry is always good; it revives drooping interest and adds enthusiasm and "pep," and this contest of ours is indeed giving wonderful results. The visiting teachers of our ward have never before been so attentive to their duties, during the six years' service of the present secretary."
Hawaiian Mission. A very successful general conference of the Relief Society of the Hawaiian mission was held in Honolulu, April 3, with Mrs. Olivia Waddoups presiding. There were in attendance 469. Twenty-five small children brought by their mothers, were cared for in the nursery by three women who volunteered for this duty. This left the mothers free to give their time and attention to the matters presented in the conference. Among those who addressed the conference were the Relief Society presidency, President Eugene Neff, Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde of the General Board, Dr. N. A. Sinclaire, (a tuberculosis specialist and supervising physician of the tuberculosis Sanatorium), and Miss Arnold, supervising nurse of the Palama Social Settlement. Miss Arnold gave a demonstration and illustrated talk on the care and treatment of simple diseases prevalent among the children in Hawaii. At the officers' meeting held in connection with the conference
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 469
with 212 officers and teachers present, excellent reports were given from the various branches, and vital problems discussed. A feature of the conference was the pageant, "The Guardianship of Life," which was given under the direction of Mrs. Hyde. It was beautifully given and enthusiastically received by the large audience who witnessed it. The chapel was beautifully decorated for the conference, with ferns, palms and orchids. Elder Joseph McQuire brought most of the flowers and palms from his own private collection.
SAMPLES OF CROCHET WORK DONE IN NORTH SANPETE STAKE IN WORK AND BUSINESS MEETING.


SAMPLES OF CROCHET WORK DONE IN NORTH SANPETE STAKE IN WORK AND BUSINESS MEETING.
Blackfoot Stake. Blackfoot stake is justly proud of the record made by its Relief Society chorus of some seventy voices. About two years ago, the chorister, Mrs. Emma J. Beck, to whom much credit is due, organized in each of the fourteen associations a double trio. The combined groups make up the stake chorus, and meet three times a month for practice. Bishops of the wards speak highly of the service rendered by the Relief Society trios at special meetings,
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 471
funerals, etc., while the stake chorus has assisted greatly by singing for stake entertainments, conventions and conferences.
BLACKFOOT STAKE CHORUS
They will furnish the singing for one day of the next quarterly conference, and are also at work on a cantata to be given in May. Mrs. Ada Nuttall Parkinson is the efficient organist.
European Mission. Elder Maurice Nuttall, who is laboring as a missionary in Germany, writes the General Board as follows: "A short time ago while I was tracting, or going from house to house distributing literature, I met a man who told me the following story: Just after the world war, and while this man was yet in the army, he was in the city of Plauen, when a shipment of food and clothing arrived from the 'Mormon' Relief Society in Utah. As he stood watching the distribution of the goods, a Relief Society woman took him by the arm, led him into the crowd, and gave him something to eat. From that time to this, he has thought well of the 'Mormon' people. And last week, when he read in the paper a long article against the 'Mormons,' he said he could not


believe such things of the people who had helped him, and hundreds of others, four years ago. "When I met this man, I told him a little about our Church, but he already had a testimony, and was only waiting for the missionaries, or someone else, to invite him to meetings. He and his family are now visiting our meetings regularly and are intensely interested. 'God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform.' This man was converted by people thousands of miles from him. Yes, he was given a testimony by an organization of women who are devoting their lives to good deeds. This testimony was strengthened by an article in a newspaper, and then a missionary was led to his door to bring this testimony to life. We missionaries ever pray for the success of such organizations as the Relief Society, and may the Lord make your work as successful in the future as it has been in the past."
REORGANIZATIONS
Eastern States Mission. The Eastern States mission Relief Society was reorganized in March of this year, with the release of Miss Luella B. Owen, who had served as president in connection with her other missionary duties. Miss Elizabeth Skolfield, another missionary and daughter of Dr. Jane Skolfield of Salt Lake City, was appointed to succeed Miss Owen. Miss Skolfield has been very active since her appointment, and is making plans to visit all the Relief Society branches in her territory in the near future.
Wayne Stake. On May 9, the Wayne stake Relief Society was organized. Mrs. Bathsheba Grundy tendered her resignation and was honorably released with deep appreciation for her many years of faithful service. Mrs. Grundy and her retiring board members are greatly beloved in Wayne stake for their devotion to the Relief Society cause, and for their kindly ministrations to the people. On Thursday evening, May 20, at Loa, the newly appointed stake board held a social in honor of the retiring president and board members. Music, live wires, and songs by the members, and speeches by the guests of honor constituted a pleasing program. Games were enjoyed by all, after which refreshments were served. Mrs. Grundy was presented with a gift as a token of respect for her many years of labor in the Relief Society cause. The newly appointed officers and board members are: Mrs. Mary A. Brinkerhoff, president; Mrs. Marguerite M. Weeks, first counselor; Mrs. Emily White, second counselor; Mrs. Emma Brinkerhoff, secretary-treasurer; Mrs. Louise Morrell, supervisor of teachers; Mrs. Margaret J. Brian, organist and Magazine agent; Mrs. Olive E. Taft, supervisor of social service work; Mrs. Lucy S. Torgerson, supervisor of theology lessons; Mrs. Luva S. Okerlund, supervisor of literary lessons.
Cache Stake. The Cache stake Relief Society was reorganized in April. Mrs. Kinnie B. Caine resigned her position as stake president, and she and her Board were honorably released. Mrs. Caine has been faithful and efficient in her work, and with her ability and charming personality she has succeeded in placing her stake in an enviable position, and in winning many friends to the Relief Society cause. In recognition of the long and distinguished service of Mrs. Caine and the retiring members of her board, a testimonial was held in the Logan tabernacle. A program was given which included music and talks by leading workers in the organization, the various wards each furnishing a number. The retiring officers were presented with tokens of appreciation. The following new officers were sustained March 21, 1926. Relief Society stake president, Mrs. Lizzie B. Owen; counselors, Mrs. Sophia W. Cardon and Mrs. Lulu Y. Smith; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Winifred B. Ensign.
Lost River Stake. On April 25, at the quarterly stake conference of the Lost River stake, the Relief Society organization underwent a number of changes. Mrs. Ellen H. Lowry, who had been president for a little over six years was honorably released, and the following new board sustained: President, Mrs. Mary E. Black; counselors, Mrs. Mary A. Jeppersen and Mrs. Nilus W. Packer; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Josephine J. Toombs; assistant secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Lizzie Hoggan; chorister, Mrs. Florence Parkinson; organist, Mrs. Sarah Lowry; social service aid, Laura S. Rice; theology, Mrs. Josephine B. Quist; literature, Mrs. Christian Chamberlain. On Wednesday, March 12, 1926, a visiting teachers' convention was held, followed by a social in honor of the retiring stake board. There were eight members on the old board, five being released and three retained in the new organization. A book was presented to each retiring sister and the two oldest, President Ellen H. Lowry and Mrs. J. Hannah Babcock, were presented with beautiful jardinieres as well. The social consisted of musical numbers and reading, with dainty refreshments.
Roosevelt Stake. At the quarterly conference of the Roosevelt stake held in March, Mrs. Clara F. Hansen was honorably released as president of the stake Relief Society, and Mrs. Ada Johnson was sustained as her successor. Mrs. Hansen was commended for the excellent work she has accomplished during her term of office. And she


leaves the work with the good will of the entire community. The new stake organization is not complete at this writing.
Cottonwood Stake. At the quarterly conference of the Cottonwood stake, held Sunday, May 23, the officers and members of the stake board of the Relief Society were released from further service on account of the illness and resignation of their president, Mrs. Amanda N. Bagley. New officers and board members were sustained as follows: President, Mrs. Vera P. Walquist; counselors, Mrs. Mable W. Miller and Mrs. Alice G. Silver; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Ivy C. Towler. The president, Mrs. Walquist, will have charge of the social service department; Mrs. Mildred E. Howe, the literary department; Mrs. Alice C. Casto, the theology department; Mrs. Sarah L. Brockbank, the applied art and sewing; Mrs. Ella M. Croxford, social service aid; Mrs. Carrie W. Quist, chorister. In connection with the new organization a stake welfare committee to have charge of the special activities of the stake Relief Society under the direction of the new presidency was also appointed, with Mrs. Amanda N. Bagley, the retiring stake president, as chairman. The members of the committee with their special assignment follow: Mrs. Mary S. Cornwall and Mrs. Lyle M. Berry, supervisors of the maternity hospital; Mrs. Mary P. Lindsay, supervisor of the baby clinic; Mrs. Rena D. Wheeler and Mrs. Margaret O. Erekson, supervisors of the sewing department. All of the secretarial work, bookkeeping and finances of this committee will be handled by the stake secretary. Several entertainments have been given in honor of the retiring stake board. Mrs. Mary S. Cornwall, counselor to Mrs. Bagley, entertained the board members with a supper at her home in connection with their final meeting, May 11. The following Friday afternoon, Mrs. Rose J. Fox, a board member, entertained the board at her home in Bennion ward, when the time was spent in games and reminiscences, with refreshments at the close. On June 8, Mrs. Ivy C. Towler, the secretary-treasurer, entertained the board members and the new Relief Society presidency at a luncheon at her home on South State street. On that occasion three handsome stand lamps were presented by the retiring board members to their former president and her counselors, Mrs. Bagley, Mrs. Cornwall and Mrs. Wheeler. Following this a few days later Mrs. Lindsay and Mrs. Hamilton entertained the old board and the new presidency at the Lindsay home in Taylorsville. At the regular annual Relief Society party to be given in the stake house with the opening of the fall work, the retiring board members will be the guests of the new stake organization. Mrs. Bagley has been a most capable and energetic president.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 475
with a keen sense of duty, and with a realization of her responsibility as the head of her stake. Through study, observation and definite research she became acquainted with the condition and needs of her stake at the outset, and with her superior intelligence and vision she set about to meet those needs and to develop the resources of the organization. The most outstanding piece of work brought about by Mrs. Bagley and her associates, aside from the regular work of the organization, was the establishment of the Cottonwood Stake Maternity Hospital, an institution with 12 beds. Mrs. Bagley saw the great need of such an institution, and with the approval and support of the Priesthood, it became a reality. The hospital will soon be closing its second successful year. The Cottonwood stake board also established a most successful clinic for children, which later has worked in close connection with the Bureau of Child Hygiene of the State Board of Health. The sewing department is another successful project of this energetic group of women.