EDITORIAL
A Turn in the Road
Those who read Mr. Kenneth Robert's article, Mormons and What Not, published in the June 5 issue of the Saturday Evening Post, or The Business End of Mormonism, in the Dearborn Independent of March 27, will realize that there are others as well as Mr. M. R. Werner who published a very unacceptable Life of Brigham Young, in 1925, and Mr. Bernard De Voto, whose article on Utah in the March issue of the American Mercury is a libel on the history of Utah and her people.
Mr. Kenneth Roberts of the Saturday Evening Post is at all times a racy writer, no matter what his theme. His article on the "Mormons" indicates that he has an eye to see and a mind to comprehend, despite any interference that may come in his path. He has the following to say about Brigham Young:
"Brigham Young had a large, aggressive and active hand in everything? agriculture, industry, architecture, city planning, drama, finance, military tactics, education, politics, morale building and various other matters; and the results that obtained through his own intelligence and foresight, coupled with the remarkable organi- 
 zation of the "Mormon" Church, were such that his name is almost as closely identified with "Mormon" activities in Utah today and almost as frequently mentioned as it was when he was alive. This fact, considering that Brigham Young died in 1877, is enough to give pause to the most confirmed scoffer, if not to give him several pauses."
The article in the Dearborn Independent is in keeping with the motto of the paper, which is "A chronicler of the neglected truth." From this article, we quote the following:
"One of the most costly and finely finished office buildings in this country was recently completed in Salt Lake City. Its cost was very nearly one million dollars, without the ground, and the entire building is used exclusively for the varied administration affairs of the "Mormon" Church. No one can stroll through that building without feeling that it was built for business?big business; and in talking with the heads of the various departments, the wonder grows amazingly of an organization, despised and belittled because little. Known, carrying on and increasing in marvelous variety, industrial and financial operations planned by its leaders."
There appear to be people who lack power to see things when they are spread before them, and others who are so malicious that they will not make truthful reports of that which they really observe. All we can say of such persons is "the more the pity." But what is particularly gratifying is that while there are those who in the midst of a harvest see only barrenness, there are others who see the truth and have the courage to tell the truth, for even in the midst of scurrilous reports there have not been lacking those who have reported the truth.