Notes from the Field Southern States Mission: HE following is a very delightful report from Sister Grace E. Callis, president of the Relief Societies of the Southern States Mission: "Responding to desire for service, ten additional Relief Societies were organized in 1932, as shown by our report, which we are mailing today. Several of these Societies have a small membership, but tthe spirit in 'which the sisters work strengthens and fits them for every duty. "The Social Service Department of the work is making many friends for the sisters among prominent women who are not members of the Church. The lessons on Literature are inspiring the women to desire book knowledge. One of the results of these lessons is shown by well directed efforts to introduce into the homes more refinement in home making that makes the home more attractive for the children and also for the parents. In other words, more pronounced educational atmosphere is surrounding families, thus environment is being improved. "More and more the sisters are desiring and working for a better Ensign Stake 20th.........111 Magazines Taken 115 NOTES ROM THE FIELD outlook for their children. In one way especially is this desire being expressed, namely: the earnest efforts being put forth by the mothers to send their sons and daughters on missions. The spirit of sacrifice shown by parents, notably the mothers in providing for their missionary sons and daughters, is one of the most beautiful phases of Relief Society work in this mission. "Tt is a high privilege for mothers and daughters to be enlisted in the Relief Society work, and we are blessed with the spirit of unity and the determination to show our gratitude unto God for this privilege by going about doing even as our Master did." Pioneer Stake: "THE organization in this stake holds a rather unique place in the sisterhood of the 'Relief Society; the membership consisting almost entirely of women from the humbler walks of life, its principal activity is necessarily welfare work. To this task the officers and teachers have given unselfish and Christlike 175 devotion. While pursuing mostly, the ways of benign charity, these fine women eagerly take advantage of the many educational opportunities the Relief Society offers. The accompanying picture of the four women who have served as Stake President—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, 1904-1920; Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, 1920-1927; Mrs. Lettie Taylor Cannon, 1927-1929; 'and the present president, Mrs. Edna T. Matson, 1929-1933, was taken shortly after the last Conference held in 1932. At all anniversaries and conferences these four presidents aim to be present, and unite their efforts in promoting the work in the stake. They never lose interest in the welfare of this devoted group of women. Pioneer stake, true to its name, has been foremost in many of the activities of the organization. It had and designed the first emergency cabinet, according to present standards, to dispense clothing and hospital supplies to the poor. It also claims to have had the first circulating library to help the members in the preparation of the lessons. Lettie T. Cannon, Edna T. Matson, Annie Wells Cannon, Mary A. Cutler RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE PAGEANT, ETERNAL WOMANHOOD the organization, and in the words of the Stake President, "everyone who had come in contact with her, loved her, and there is a deep gloom Juab Stake: "This picture is of the Nephi Ward sisters who took part in the pageant 'Eternal 'Womanhood.' This pageant portrays the admirable attributes of the ideal woman, and iwas successfully given in each of the wards of the Juab Stake at the 'Ward Conferences during the past year. So much interest and enthusiasm was created that the Stake [Board has jplanned that a pageant be given in each ward during this present year. "The Teachers' Message” with the Beatitudes as the theme, will be given by the wards at this 'year's conferences." Wasatch Stake: THE General Board of Relief Society 'was shocked and grieved to hear the sad tidings from the Wasatch Stake, that Mrs. Emma J. Carlile, Second Counselor in the Relief Society Stake Presidency, had passed away on January 7, 1933. Sister Carlile was a particularly charming and efficient member of over the stake. Our Relief Society women admired her charming personality, sunny disposition and the efficient service she rendered among the women. Her kindness for the sick and aged 'will never be forgotten. While her talent was of the kind that found expression in every walk of life, her special responsibility on the (Relief Society board was the supervision of the music and the class work. In this she evinced most exceptional leadership. At her | funeral the choristers and organists from all the wards furnished the music. Everything which human skill and great faith could do was in evidence in 'her illness, but we must all feel that 'the Lord doeth all things well,' and be reconciled." The General Board extends sincere condolence to Sister Carlile's family, and to the stake Relief Society officers among whom = she labored. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN: MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - - THE GENERAL BOARD.. President Counselor Second Counselor Secretary and Treasurer - General Mrs. Emma A. Empe Mrs. Amy Whipple Evang Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor:  A Mary Connelly KIMBALL.