Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
		DEAR SISTER:
Thinking a few items from this part of the
vineyard would be of interest to some of your
readers, I will give you a sketch of a trip—
made by President Anna L. Ivins and Coun-
selors to the sisters of the organizations in the
Eastern part of St. George Stake of Zion.
	We started from St. George on the 17th of
July and held a meeting with the Relief Society
of Washington ward at 10, a. m. the same day;
and as there was a vacancy in the presidency
of this society, Sister Mc'Crevey was the choice
of the sisters as 2nd Counselor to President
Susan F. Chidester, we had an enjoyable time;
the sisters appeared to be glad of a visit and
were encouraged in the discharge of their duties.
After partaking of lunch we drove to Harris-
burg; this is a branch of the Leeds ward, the
Relief Society is in charge of Sister Laney
who is nearly discouraged, on account of so
many people moving away, but expresses a
willingness to continue.  Our meeting was
held at 3 p. m. and was well attended.  After
partaking of the hospitality of Sister Laney,
we continued our journey to Leeds, where we
spent the night at Bishop Mc'Mullens.  At
10 a. m the next morning we met with the
sisters of Leeds, who are presided over by
Sister Anna Wilkenson, this sister is in poor
health.  Notwithstanding the smallness of the
settlement the sisters turned out well and we
had a good meeting at the close of which we
made our way to Toquerville, where we held
another meeting, Sister Bringhurst who pre-
sides over the Society at this place, was from
home, but we had a good time with the sisters
who are all desirous of doing their duty.
	On the 19th inst., following the windings of
Nephi's Twist, which leads up from the
Leverkin, we found the road in pretty good

[column 2]
condition owing to the late rain; we reached
Virgin City where we held a meeting with the
Relief Society at 2 p. m. the sisters there feel
well and are spirited in the discharge of their
duty.
	At 5, p. m. we met with the Primary Asso-
ciation.  Sister Pratt has been very energetic
with the children and deserves great credit.
On the morning of the 20th we bade our
friends adieu, and continued our journey up
the Rio Virgin River to Duncan's Retreat
which is a branch of the Virgin City ward;
there were but few sisters at this place (yet
the word of the Lord was fulfilled wherein
He says," where a few are met together in my
name I will be there and that to bless.") Sister 
Martindale, who presides there, is a fine
spirited woman.
	After traveling 3[-] miles we came to the
Grafton ward, which is located on the same
River.  At this place Sister Ballard is the
presiding officer of the Relief Society, she has
lately buried her husband; and although
there were but few sisters in attendance we
had a good time; we remained with the good
people of Grafton over night.
	On the morning of the 21st we resumed our
journey; at Rockville we met with the sisters
at 2 p. m. when Sister Lizzie Calkins Smith,
(who has been very faithful in her labors
among her sisters as well as in the Primary
Association) resigned her position as President
of the Relief Society of Rockville, and as she
was going to move away, her resignation was
accepted; and Sister Henrietta Stout was sus-
tained as President with Sister Kesiah Hall as
Ist and Clorinda Langston as 2nd Counselors.
The Primary Association of this ward was
 also reorganized with Sister Dally as Presi-
dent.  Bishop Hirshe met with the sisters and
encouraged them with his counsel.
	On the 22nd we continued our journey taking
the South Fork of the Virgin River until we
reached Shonesburg; it is wonderful how the
people ever found this place, as it has to be
reached by dug-ways for the want of room
along the River bank for a road; and if they
ever had any land to farm worth speaking of,
the floods of the last few years have taken it
away, leaving the people with but poor pros-
pects for the future; they certainly deserve
credit for their staying qualities.
	At 2 p. m. we held a meeting with the good
sisters of Shonesburg and reorganized a Relief
Society with Sister Emily De Mill as President
and Fidelia De Mill as 1st and Jemima Beale
as 2nd Counselors.  This place being at the
end of the road, we were obliged to turn back
down the River to the North Fork, which we
followed up to Spring Dale, which we found to
be a most romantic spot; surrounded as it is
by crags and peaks, and this branch of the
Virgin seems to be less fickle as it allows the
land along its banks to remain in  undisturbed
repose; while the husbandman gathers its
abundant yield of lucerne.  It is astonishing
to think how the people have sustained them
selves on this river; their land in many in-
stances being entirely washed away; leaving
them nothing but their garden or orchard;
some have turned their attention to stock while
others have moved away; many more are fix-
ing to go.  Thus situated many people ad-
vanced in years have to strike out and begin
life afresh; yet withal these discouraging cir-
cumstances we found all happy and full of hope,
because of the revelations of the Holy Spirit
that they are in possession of. 
	We held meeting with the Relief Society
presided over by Sister Gifford and had a nice
time; also talked to the children of the Primary
they regretted that we could not stay longer.
We returned to Rockville where we were en-
tertained by Bishop Hirshe and family, who
did all in their power for our comfort.
	On our return to Toquerville on the 23rd

[column 3]
we met with the Primary Association at 6,p.m.
and had quite a nice meeting.
	On the 24th we took in Leeds, held meeting
with the Primary Association at 10, a. m. here
Sister Angel is earnest in her work with the 
Primary.  We continued on to St. George,
where we found all well; and felt assured our-
selves that the Lord had blest us on our eight
days trip; and thankful that He has counted
us worthy of a place, and standing in His
Church and kingdom.
	With kind regards I remain your sister in
the Gospel.
