WEBER CO. W. S. A.

	The regular monthly meeting of the
Woman's Suffrage association, held in the fifth
Ward Institute, Ogden, on Tuesday afternoon
September 1st, was one of more than ordinary
interest to the members of that society and to
those who frequent those meetings.
	The first speaker introduced, after the
opening exercises, was Mrs. Emily S. Richards.
She regretted that circumstances had prevented
her from personally meeting with the associa-
tion to report orally regarding her visit to
Washington as the delegate from Weber.
County to the Woman's National convention.
She had been treated with great respect and
courtesy. She had had the honor of speaking
of Ogden and the ladies of Ogden in the meet-
ings of the Executive session of the convention,
where there were delegates present from
all parts of the country and many were the
warm expressions of congratulation and
interest extended by a host of friends. "These
conventions are a source of education to the
ladies, as much valuable information is impart-
ed. Woman's aim is to do good.
	"These ladies who are agitating questions in
which the welfare of women are involved are
not the ones who need help, but they are
working for the good of others. Many women
suffer from the labor they perform, and receive
such poor compensation for their work that it
is distressing to think of. Woman in part is
to blame for these things. She must educate
herself for different pursuits and claim the
rights pretaining to them. She should not
depreciate men as all the rights women will
receive will be given by them.
	"The franchise, if given to woman, will not
straighten all that is crooked in life. Woman's
energies and efforts must be directed to do
good, to educate her sons and daughters and
make that education equal. Politics should
form part of onr education. The ladies have
been honored with places on committees for
the World's Fair, and the ladies of Utah
will be called upon to do their part and let us
do that part well."
	Hon. Franklin S. Richards next delivered
an interesting and eloquent address. He
believed the subject of woman's suffrage an
important one. By this meeting he was
reminded of the first woman's convention he
attended ten years ago in Washington there
were but few people at the meeting, not so
many as there are here this afternoon." Since
then he had attended such gatherings and the
largest halls are now crowded," so you ladies
must not get discouraged, the principles you
advocate are correct and men are proud to-
day to acknowledge the work of such gifted
and able women as Cady Stanton and Susan
B. Anthony." Mr. Richards referred to
woman's condition in the past ages, and
explained clearly that the higher the civili-
zation of any nation, the greater the opportuni-
ities and advantages accorded, to woman.
He then related some of the experiences of
Mrs. Belva Lockwood in her efforts to acquire
an education, how she strove against the
objections raised to her entrance to the college
for the study of law but by perseverance she

[Column 2]

succeeded in two years, but was refused her
diploma simply because she was a woman, and
no precedent could be found for awarding a
diploma to a woman. The courts next
objected to her practicing, but by her
indomitable will she broke down every barries
in her path and has proven herself to be an
intelligent and able lawyer. There are now
about ten ladies practicing law in the United
States."
	Mr. Richards then refered to the change
in public sentiment and feeling prevailing all
over the world to that which existed only a few
years ago, regarding woman, and her influence
for good but in a brief synopsis it is impossible
to do justice to the subject so intelligently
handled by Mr. Richards. A vate of thanke
was extended the distinguished visitors and
after a few terse remarks from the Hon. F. D.
Richards on the subject of woman's privileges,
also from Mrs: J. S. Richards and Mrs.
Stanford in appreciation ot the discourses
delivered, the meeting adjourned for one
month.
		LIZZIE STANFORD, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]

