EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few lines from this far off land
would be of interest to the readers of your
valuable paper, I will endeavor to give you an
account of our condition here. This ward was
organized on the 19th inst. by Apostle George
Teasdale, who called a meeting on the following
morning at 11 o'clock a. m. for the purpose of
organizing a Relief Society.  There were pres-
ent of the Priesthood, Apostle George Teas-
dale, Bishop Winslow Farr, Elders Willard 
Carroll and B. H. Allred.  Meeting was called
to order by Bishop Winslow Farr, singing
"Let Zion in her beauty rise, &c;" opening
prayer by Elder Willard Carroll, singing
"Where the voice of friendship's heard, &c."
Apostle Teasdale then called for an enrollment
of all the sisters who desired to  become mem-
bers of the Society, all the sisters present gave
their names, being thirty in number.  Apostle
Teasdale in connection with the Bishop and
Elders present then proceeded to organize 
the Society; the officers are as follows: Ida I.
Mortensen, President; Lydia K. Young and
Charlotte Carroll, Counselors; Phebe I. Allred,
Secretary; Josepha Wright, Ass't. Secretary;
Nancy Williams, Treasurer.  We were blessed
with the out pourings of the spirit of God, and
had a goodly time.  Meeting was adjourned
until 3 o'clock p. m. singing, and benediction
pronounced by President Ida I. Mortensen.

	Three o'clock p.m., meeting was resumed,
Pres. Ida I. Mortensen presiding, singing,
"Once more we come before our God, &c."
Opening prayer by Coun. Lydia K. Young,
singing "With joy we own Thy servants Lord
&c."  The roll was called showing the presence
of 29 members, minutes of the morning meeting
read and approved.
	Apostle Teasdale said "I want an expres-
sion of the sisters' that I may know how they 
feel."  A goodly number of the sisters arose
and expressed their desires to improve the
opportunity now presented through this organi-
zation, and that they had greatly felt the
lack of the Relief Society, were grateful that
the time had come that they were favored
thus etc.
	Apostle Teasdale then addressed the as-
sembly, spoke at some length giving the sisters
good instructions, promising them in the name
of Christ his Master that if they were faith-
ful in the discharge of their duties that it 
would not be long until they should have 
their own grain bins, and meeting houses, and
they should be blessed to overflowing; he ex-
horted all to diligence, and invoked the bless-
ings of God upon the people of this Colony.
	Bishop Winslow Farr also spoke very en-
couragingly to the assembly.  Meeting was
then adjourned until the first Thursday in
August. Singing, "A Saint, and is the title
mine, &c."  Benediction by Bishop Winslow
Farr.	
