SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	SEPTEMBER 15, 1891.


[Column 1]
THIS AND THAT.
ONE of the best things we have heard of re-
cently is the gratifying news of the Amnesty
granted to Joseph F. Smith by President Harri-
son. To be under the ban of the law suffering
for conscience sake, for a religious principle for 
so many years, is to a man like him a severe
ordeal to say the least, and to be once more free
to breathe the pure air of heaven without fear of
molestation, must be joy indeed to such an inde- 
pendent American. To see Pres. Smith once
more in his accustomed place upon the stand in
the House of the Lord on the Sabbath day will be
a general cause of rejoicing.

TELEGRAMS from New Zealand under the date
of September 5th, announce the fact that "the
House of Representatives of New Zealand passed
a bill granting the residential suffrage to women
and qualifying women for election to Parliament."
This is indeed startling news and we hope the
same influence may spread far and wide; and it
will, when once the doors of legislative halls and
parliaments are opened to women, it will be a
lever to move other obstacles out of the way of
woman's progress, and one by one, the walls of 
prejudice will be broken apart and inroads made,
that will give greater light and power and strength
until all barriers will at last be removed, and the
women of the near future stand equal with man
and a grander and nobler and purer condition of
things in all the departments of life and work
because of the more complete harmony which will
be the result.

	WE had hoped and expected ere this to have
had something more positive to report from the
Lady Commissioners for Utah in regard to Wo-
man’s work for the World’s Fair, but have heard
nothing except by telegrams in the daily papers.
We present the following as the most important
of these dispatches.
“Late last night at a conference of the com-
missioners and lady managers of the Territories,
it was agreed that the Territories should consoli-
date in erecting one building for their exhibits.
It shall cost not less than $10,000. 
Behind closed doors the board considered the
circular letters that have been sent out from time
to time in connection with the Queen Isabella
Association. Mrs. Wilkins introduced a resolu-
tion, which was carried, that the lady manager
who assisted or encouraged the sending out of
literature derogatory to the board, should be ex-
pelled from the board and the State sending her
requested to remove her from all connection with
the board.
“The board of lady managers of the World’s
Fair, Sep. 8, appointed a committee to select ex-
amples of specially notable and brilliant achieve- 
ments of women, to be made into a separate dis-

[Column 2]
play in the woman’s building. This display will
range from literature and art to cookery. It was 
announced that a portion of the money set apart
for foreign advertising would probably be made
available for sending agents abroad to work in
the interest of the women's department.

THE Young Woman’s Journal has just com- 
pleted its second volume, it is edited by Susa
Young Gates, daughter of Brigham Young, pre-
viously a well-known and popular writer over the
signature of Homespun. Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor 
President of the Y. L. M. I. A. has charge of the
Department devoted to the special interests of
that organization. The Journal has been quite
successful during the past two years of its publi-
cation and has undoubtedly a brilliant future be-
fore it, for the young women of the Church seem
to have taken hold of the work with determina-
tion and energy and with them there should be no
failures. The poetry it contains has been excep-
tionally good; and the editor has spared no pains
to make it useful and acceptable and entertaining
to the young people. Her efforts in this direc-
tion are worthy of great praise. The biographic- 
al sketches of young women actively engaged
in association work, with their pictures is a de-
lightful feature of the journal. The circular for
the coming year has been issued and contains
notices of the several departments into which the
magazine will be divided, among which are many
noticeable features, viz; The picture gallery, the
literary department, fashion department, Consti-
tutional Government, hygienic department and
several others of equal interest. The mechani-
cal work of the magazine is a great recommenda-
tion. It is published at the office of the Juvenile
Instructor, and that office has every facility for
doing good work in the way of printing, binding
etc. The Journal is $2,00 per year, and it is
well worth the price. We wish the Journal the
utmost success and sincerely hope and believe it
will do missionary work at home and abroad.


