NOTES AND NEWS.

	Anna M. Rothest, of Brooklyn, has just
been granted a patent for an upper case
treadle attachment for typewriting machines.
	To the query, "What have women to do
with politics?" the best answer generally is,
"Politics have so much to do with women."—
Westminster and Lambeth Gazette.
	The Woman's Union for Good Works,
organized at Haverhill, Mass., some months
age, has nearly 300 members, and has under-
taken, as its first important work, the opening
of a boarding home for young women. The
society comprises women from all the churches
and is strictly undenominational.
	The fine art of life is too little considered.
The end of life is life itself. It is not a book,
or a statue, or a painting, or a newspaper; it
is character. Because one is doing or en-
deavoring to do a great work, does it follow
that he shall permit himself to grow irritable,
exacting, jealous or contemptible in his man-
ner of contemplating life? Is not the life
more than meat?—Lilian Whiting.
	Let us labor strenuously to convince the
rising generation of girls—the girls who are to
win our cause for us, if it is ever to be won—
that woman suffrage means nothing else than
the legal right to express an effectual opinion
on questions of interest to every intelligent
woman. Whether that woman be a physician,
or a leader of society, or a sheltered house-
mother, matters not a whit she need give up
no iota of her habits of life to be a suffragist
and, later a voter.—Dorothy Lundt.
	Miss Marion Foster, the "little invalid
artist" of New York, is at the Ocean House,
Newport. Miss Foster is a niece of Secretary
Foster, of President Harrison's Cabinet, She
is looking up subjects from every State in the
Union for her historical painting for the
World's Fair at Chicago, in 1893. Miss
Foster proposes to put on canvas the most
distinguished statesmen, senators and mem-
bers of Congress, who will be in office in
1892 and 1893. The paintings, after the ex-
hibition of the World's Fair, will be returned to
the capital.


Mrs. Frances Woodring has held the office
of superintendent of a coal mine, at Ashland,
Pennsylvania, since the death of her husband
several years ago. She employs 180 men, and
is liked by them. At an early hour she ap-
pears at the head of the shaft, and she remains
there until the men have all gone to work.
She keeps a close supervision over the prop-
ping of the mine and the air supply, and is
actively benevolent to the wives and families
of the miners. Not a single accident has oc-
curred in the mine since she assumed charge
of it.


