W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	Minutes of the meeting of W. S. A. S. L.
Co., held Aug. 18th 1891, in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms. Pres. Elizabeth Howard in
the chair. Prayer by Sophia Long. Minutes
of last meeting read and approved.  Roll
called, and three new members voted in. 
Elizabeth Price read an excellent article on
Tariff. Pres. Howard introduced Hannah
Lapish, Pres. of the American Fork W. S. A.
who gave a short sketch of the organization
of that branch of Utah Co., said she hoped to
see the day, in the near future, when she could
cast a vote, for the men of her choice. Mary
A. Freeze read an essay, giving some of the
main features of both the Democratic and
Republican systems of government.
	Elizabeth Mc’Farlane complimented the
ladies, (Price and Freeze) on their excellent
articles, said all the fault she could find with
them was, that they were Republican, said a
Democratic government, was distinguished as
an economical one, and economy could bring
about almost anything, the Tariff protected
people who owned their hundreds of millions,
while the poor were oppressed, all around
them. Hoped that party would soon have a
chance again to prove their abilities in that
line, and had very strong faith that they
would.
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp was decidedly Demo-
cratic in her views, said she did not feel
qualified to discuss the political questions of
the day, to any great extent, but felt that she
would like to see the majority benefited
Thought it best to resign her position as one
of the Ex. Com., as she did not have time to
attend to that, with her numerous other
duties. But after some discussion, decided to
continue on, for the present.
	Phebe Y. Beatie thought there was good in 
both forms of government, thought the Tariff,
did not create so much difference between rich
and poor as the ability of different individuals
to get along in the world, as some would get
rich, where others under like conditions, would
remain poor.
	Zina D. H. Young made a brief speech,
giving some of her views of the questions
under discussion. Pres. Howard invited any
of the ladies in the hall who wished to do so,
to speak.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she had for many
years advocated the co-education of the sexes.
	Jane Freeze said she was heart and soul
with the ladies, in favor of equal rights
thought we should look at both sides carefully
before deciding our course, but she had a
leaning towards Democracy.
	Dr. Shipp did not wish to be understood, as
wishing to resign her position on Ex. Com.,
from a lack of interest in the cause, as it had
her hearty support, but purely from want of
time to attend to the duties thereof.
	M. Isabella Horne speaking of the Tariff,
thought that the Almighty had so ordained
affairs in this world, that no nation could be
independent of the others.
	Sarah M. Kimball, said we are engaged in


a grand cause, and must think and act for
ourselves, not be something because some one
else was, we want to be Stateswomen, and will
have to be educated up to a higher standard,
before we are ready for many things that are
in the future for us.
	Pres. Howard requested the Ex. Com., to
remain for a few minutes after the close of the
meeting.
	Adjourned until the third Tuesday in Sept.
same time and place.
