	PLASANT PRIMARY WORK.

	Sunday Aug. 23rd, we saw quietly laid to
rest in the Spanish Fork cemetery the remains
of a good woman, a faithful Latter-day Saint,
and our life long, devoted friend, Sister Millie
Lewis Gay and with a resigned though sor-
rowful heart turned away from the kind and
patient husband, and six children ranging
in age from the wee toddler to the youthful
maidens verging into the slippery paths which
too often lead astray. Trusting them to the
loving care of Him who doeth all things well.

	We joined Sisters Anna K. Smoot and
Eliza Taylor, of the Stake Presidency of the
Primary Association of the Utah Stake and
traveled on to Santaquin, where a meeting of
the children awaited us at 10 o'clock on Mon-
day morning. A house full of parents and
children was a cheering sight; the exercises
shert, cheerful, and suitable for children, were
well rendered to the credit of Pres. Wall and
Counselors.
	At 3 p. m. we met with the Association of
Spring Lake Villa, lately organized and doing
creditable work, considering all things—under
the care of Sister Butler and Counselors who
felt encouraged to still press on in their up-
hill work, of training the little ones in widely
scattered homes.
	That evening we met with the officers of the
Payson district at the home of Pres. Amy
Hancock, who kindly entertained us. It was
a treat to meet with those who were intimate
with Joseph Smith and are ever ready to tes-
ify that he was a Prophet of God.
	Tuesday morning at 10 o'clock the children
and mothers made a good-sized audience in
the Payson meeting house; here, too the child-
ren rendered some very creditable exercises
and kept good order, and appeared to enjoy
singing, "We are the children of the Saints,"
while marching, led by one of the visiting
ladies. At noon we were entertained by the
officers in the vestry which was tastefully
decorated with vines, flowers and flags, and
enjoyed one of the most inviting picnics with
ice cream, fruit, etc., and were sent on our way
rejoicing to Salem, where we were surprised to
see the house full by 3, p. m. Prompt lively
singing by all the children was a delightful
feature, and a well rendered programme satis-
fied us that all were persevering, energetic,
workers.
	In the evening we passed up to Spanish
Fork and held a meeting with the officers of
that District and gladly sought rest and
strength for the coming morrow.
	Wednesday Aug. 26th was an interesting
day for Primary people large and small, in
Spanish Fork; at 10 a. m. the officers, from
all parts of the Stake, met in the
meeting house; this was an assembly to be
proud of, and thankful for; excepting one or
two, every association was represented from
the Lake shore to the canon heights, at Mill

[column 2]
Fork, where the Primary is the only living
organization. Coun. Sarah E. Cluff, Sec.
Mabel Pratt, Ass't Sec. Ida Cheever and
Treas. Ottelia Measer joined the company
making what is seldom seen at any meeting a
complete corps of Stake officers. Here is
Pres. Smoot's special field of action, with
anxious, yet womanly dignity, she hears all
reports; accepts suggestions and wisely attends
to all details of business pertaining to Primary
work. The perfect harmony of feeling, unity
of purpose, and loving consideration toward
each other came the nearest to our ideal of
what should exist of anything we had yet seen.
	At 3 p. m. the Conference opened with a
house crowded in every part, a number of
brethren, among them Bishop Snell, en-
couraged us by their presence, and the exercises
under the direction of District Pres. Argyle,
were all well chosen, varied and short, and
every detail of the conference pre-arranged
with careful fore thought and hard labor.
The singing, under the direction of Brother
Owen Rowe was an evidence of patient pains
taking interest in drilling the little ones for
this occasion, they all sang with force, vim and
sprightliness, so attractive in childish music—
and pleased us better than anything in our
travels. Two original addresses, very prettily
delivered, delighted us, as did much that we
have not space to mention, and the benedic-
tion was pronounced by a little boy about 6
years of age, and could be distinctly heard by
the congregation.
	At noon the good people of Spanish Fork,
more firmly established their reputation for
hospitality by entertaining all visitors. A
sumptuous dinner being served in the dancing
hall. The long tables groaned under the
weight of the good things of the earth so
lavishly spread, and temptingly served by
pretty Primary girls, in airy white dresses and
dainty caps,—some of the young ladies lent a
charm to the hour with sweet strains from voice
and piano. Beautiful flowers gladdened the eye.
and altogether it was a scene long to be re-
membered with joy. One of the hospitable
druggists of the town, invited all the visitors
to quench their thirst at his soda water foun-
tain which was gratefully accepted.
	That night we left Spanish Fork with a
sense of true satisfaction in our profitable
reunion; and on Thursday another time of re-
joicing similar to the last only on a smaller
scale awaited us in Springville. A large
audience of parents and children was
gathered at the meeting house;—the largest
attendance of mothers seen at any place. One
song by the children, "Why parents don't visit
the school," was sung in excellent style by the
little ones, having been carefully trained by
Sister Hannah Friel, and repeated by request;
the programme throughout was a credit to
teachers and children.
	Coun. S. E. Cluff gave the children some
timely advice against the growing evil of card
playing.—and at the close all visitors repaired
to the home of District Pres. Elizabeth
Packard where they were waited upon by the
officers to a tempting and substantial dinner.
Here we all parted with a hearty "God bless
you" for each other. Our faith strengthened
in the "Hope of Israel" and a fixed determina-
tion to more firmly establish the Primary
cause, in all the Stakes of Zion.
