The reveries of the hour with “long ago.”


The visions of the past fill all my soul,
And through the vista of the years grown grim
I trace the outlines, as upon a scroll,
Of forms and scenes familiar though so dim.

I see the forests near my childhood’s home
And hear again the voices in the breeze,
And troop on troop the floods of mem’ries come,
And I seem wand’ring ’mid those ancient trees,

And all that then was mine, of youthful hope,
And sweet affection, with her myriad powers,
All these, I gather in the shadow’d scope
Of fancy as I muse in twilight hours.

Sweet tones of love fall lightly on my ear,
Again I feel the clasp of hands now cold,
And shudd’ring pause, ’twixt happiness and fear,
As the vast panorama is unrolled.

’Tis pleasant thus to view the path we’ve trod,
And mark where here and there our feet have stray’d,
Where sometimes fell a heavy chast’ning rod
And soft the whisper, be not thou afraid!

Sooth’d all the wound—and cheered us ever on,
And list’ning close the still small voice we hear,
Now plainer grown than when life first begun,
Helping and guiding as the goal we near.

If on our way some shadows in the years,
Darken’d our path, and hid the light from view,
Now looking back through mists of bitter tears,
We know WHOSE HAND guided us safely through.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.
   All through the lonely watches of that night,
the devoted cousin sat and carefully nursed
Miss Hilliard according to the good old Dr’s.
instructions, and kept the maid within call;
not wishing her to see and hear what might
pass between them in case the young lady
would rouse from the stupor into which she
seemed to have fallen, and should make a con-
fident of her; which she longed and prayed for
in order that she  might know better how to
protect, and help her, and free her from any 
embarrassment on account of her father, or the
young man, who had followed her to the woods
evidently by appointment. Cousin Jane felt
this must be the case, though she knew noth-
ing of the intimacy that had existed between
the two young people. She was deep and far-
sighted, and had noticed some things in Miss
Hilliard’s manner of late, that had given rise
to suspicions, that she scarcely dared to admit
even to herself, and feeling conscious that her
cousin Anna (Miss Hilliard) was not as strong
in character, as herself, and knowing she was
several years younger and had seen so little of
what is termed society, she determined to stand
guard, without being officious, and find out if
possible why Miss Hilliard took such long 
rambles and whether there was any real cause
for concealment. So far she had not been
able to discover anything tangible upon which
to base her suspicions, or that would give her
an opportunity to speak to her cousin except
in the most casual way; to be sure she had
sometimes said, “your charities take up a great
deal of your time, can’t you divide this benevo-
lent work with me?” To such questioning Miss
Hilliard would generally reply, “O, I like to
go among the poor and sick, and take notes of
the way in which my father’s affairs are
managed; indeed I should like to see many
improvements made in the condition of the

[Column 2]
working people.” Though these answers did
not quite satisfy cousin Jane, yet she would
not persist in her questionings, but once or
twice had made the remark, “Cousin Anna
you never have seemed to me to be in the least
practical certainly your tastes do not tend
in that direction.” “Appearances are
sometimes deceptive,” Miss Hilliard replied on
one occasion, and then smiled significantly.
The intonation of her voice, more than the
words, had pained her cousin, she could not
help thinking it was a covert reply, and that
perhaps she had, though spoken in jest, a
double meaning.
   Cousin Jane was only a visitor at the Castle,
she knew she had no positive right to claim
the confidence of her imperious cousin, but
she saw how peculiarly embarrassing was the
situation Miss Hilliard occupied for a young
girl, and how much was expected of her from
her father of which she was totally ignorant.
With only the aid of hired governesses and
masters to instruct her, and these changed at
the caprice of the father whenever they of-
fended him; cousin Jane had judged from the
first, and rightly too, that such influences were
not in the least calculated to discipline her
cousin in proper channels of thought, or guide
her inclinations, or actions towards lofty or
grand aspirations to qualify her for the re-
sponsible position she would be expected to fill
in the near future.
   Her mother Lady Hilliard had died when
she gave birth to the little girl “Anna,” and
the father had never married again, nor had
he devoted much time or thought upon the
education or training of his only child and
heir. Disappointment at first because she was
a girl, had made him cold and indifferent to
the little one, and even the death of his wife
had not softened his heart; though as the child
grew in years, she developed more and more
the tender graces of her angelic mother; but
even this did not touch any sympathetic chord
in the bosom of this man of the world, whose
pride was more than his fortune, and whose
lineal rank far exceeded his merit. He al-
lowed little Anna to grow up almost entirely
under the tutelage of a French governess, who
had been educated in a convent and was full
of duplicity and cunning; she had an Italian
music master, whose temper was almost uncon-
trollable and who was entirely without prin-
ciple, petting and praising her or
scolding her by turns; these and the servants
constituted the household, except on rare occa-
sions some distant relative would come for a
few days and relieve temporarily the dreary
monotony, but Sir Edward never encouraged
such visits, and the stay was always brief. He
had his particular friends, now and then to
dine, or for the hunting season, but Miss Anna
was never brought out on such occasions. She
had scarcely been allowed to associate with
any of the young girls when a child, though
she had often been invited; her father was very
strict in his way and when occasionally she
had asked permission of him to attend some
little party or gathering, he had been so un-
kind and uncivil that she preferred staying at
home, rather than brave his displeasure or
risk a refusal.
   The governess, however, was very fond of
going out herself and as she was Miss Anna’s
chaperone at all times, consequently would
intercede with the father until he would con-
sent to their going if reluctantly. Miss Anna


[Column 1]
had been taught dancing under a proficient
master, and in this accomplishment she ex-
celled all the girls in that vicinity even as a
child.  Her education in dancing, music and
society manners had not been neglected; al-
though morally no foundation had been laid
upon which to build character.  Beautiful,
fascinating, abounding in ideality, with all the
charms of budding womanhood, this tender
sensitive girl was left to grow up without any
proper balance to control her feelings or her
judgment, and without any domestic affection
filial love or any true love at all, as a guide or
light upon the pathway of life.  What is
wealth or distinction of rank or empty titles
or even a Castle for a dwelling place without 
love? And yet many children are thus reared
in luxuriant homes (if such they can be called)
as well as in the hovels, the by-ways; and also
in the Asylums where the children of the
poor, aye, and sometimes of the rich grow up
utterly alone in the world, so far as love is
concerned.
	Cousin Jane had only been a short time at
the Castle when she became aware of the
great lack in Miss Hilliard’s life, and she
studiously set about working a reform, but
planning wisely and carefully to pave the way
for a change in the young girl’s life.  Luckily
Miss Jane Conway was the niece of Sir Ed-
ward, the daughter of a favorite sister, who
had however married a poor clergyman, but
he forgave her when she died and had the
generosity to invite her only daughter to come
to the Castle with him, after the funeral was 
over, adding, “I think my Anna will be glad
of a woman in the house, and it will be a re-
lief to me.”
    Once installed in the old mansion, which
was little more than a ruin, her presence was
felt by all in the establishment—her quiet
dignity and self-possession, her modest deport-
ment at all times, and her cheerfulness, even
though it was apparent she realized the loss
of her mother, won all hearts.  Her stern old
uncle unbent a little when with her persuasive
eloquence she besought him to give them more
of his company in the drawing room, aud he
was not at all aware that he was yielding little
by little, to this rather plain, unpretentious
young woman, whom he had only thought to
shelter for a time beneath his aristocratic roof.
	Cousin Jane did not question Miss Anna
when she woke from her restless, unrefreshing
sleep, she was too wise for that, she saw how
prostrate in body she was, as well as crushed
in spirit, and she only treated her as if she
were a little child, and sought to soothe her in
every possible tender way.  She was glad
when the Dr. came in with his cheery good
morning, and asked in a fatherly way after
his patient; glad too that he suspected nothing
amiss, but only spoke of her having taken a
heavy cold; and that she would be all right
in a few days, with good nursing.  During the
day cousin Jane noticed how very uneasy her
cousin was, and that every time the door
opened or any one stirred outside how dis-
turbed she seemed, and she guessed that she
was in constant expectation, or fear of the
coming of the daring young man, who had 
caused this misfortune, and from whom her
cousin Jane thought she had only been rescued
by a special interposition of Providence.
What her feelings were towards him, or in
what way or by what means he had beguiled
her unwary feet Miss Conway had no knowl-
edge.  She was fully aware however of the
weakness of Miss Anna’s character, and that she
had never been taught any of the practical
lessons of life, by which she had received
definite instruction, illustrated by the true and
noble example of her sainted mother.
	Miss Hilliard did not once ask for her father,
nor for any one, but lay moaning and tossing
though docile as a child with her cousin; the
housekeeper and the governess had both asked
to see her, but, the self-reliant nurse had re-
fused them, telling them kindly she needed no
further help than from Miss Hilliard’s own
maid, and they retired crest-fallen, for they
mistrusted something unusal and were full of
curiosity as the groom had told them that
morning that he was sure Miss Conway had
brought “My Lady” home on horseback, for
only one horse had been saddled, or taken
out, and he found him loose, with the saddle
slipping off by the old elm near the front 
entrance, and “he was all in a foaming sweat
and just ready to drop with fatigue, and sure
it’ll take him days to get right again.”
    “What’ll ye tell the master,” said the house-
keeper, “you can’t keep him from knowing
about the horse any way?” “Leave that to me
I knows my own business!” And away he
went grumbling to himself about “wimen folks
al’ays a prying into other folks business.”
   The days went by, one after another, and
there was very little change in Miss Hilliard’s
condition; her father had returned late one
night, bringing a party of gentlemen with him;
and on his arrival had been told almost im-
mediately of his daughter’s illness by the
housekeeper. At first he was somewhat alarmed 
but became re-assured after hearing from Dr.
Bland, his own physician, that there was really 
no danger, and that it would be quite unneces-
sary to have a nurse as Miss Conway was fully
competent, and most faithful in carrying out
the Dr’s. instructions.  The only objection the
father raised to this was, “I wanted my niece
to take charge of my guests, to sit at the table
with us, and entertain them, she can relieve
me greatly in these matters; I have always
had to do all this myself, and Jane is neither
young nor pretty, so there is nothing to risk in
her case.  She talks well, is well read, knows
all about the laws and statutes of the country,
is well versed in history, and can ride a horse
as well as most gentlemen trained for the
chase;—I’m proud of her and I like to have
her near me, she always knows the right thing 
to say to people, and is modest withal, and ‘by
Jove’ I’ve never seen a woman like her.”
   The Dr. listened attentively until he had
finished and then in his cool, deliberate way,
politely informed him that his daughter’s re-
covery was of more consequence than the en-
tertaining of his guests.  Sir Edward winced
a little under this sarcasm, but replied, “a
hired nurse would do just as well and save my
niece the fatigue of night-watching.” “No
hired nurse however competent would do as 
well as Miss Conway, because she loves her,
and love is everything,” was the Dr’s re-
joinder.
   “You’ll have your way I suppose in despite of
me, Dr’s, always do, so let the matter rest, I
hope Anna will soon be out again!”
   “In a day or two more she’ll be able to
come down stairs, her constitution is a remark-
ably fine one, there is scarcely such a girl in
the kingdom, beautiful as a midsummer night’s
dream.”
   “O, as to that, she is just like her mother
a sort of lily, dainty and fair, but frail and
weak, and yielding, that is my ideal for women
we do not want them to be our masters,” said
Sir Edward.  Dr. Bland retorted “how about
Miss Conway then, she is not frail, nor weak,
nor yielding, according to your estimate of
her, yet you admire her amazingly?” “Just
as I would a young man, or boy, she pleases
me, amuses me in fact, she is the most inde-
pendent specimen of womanhood I have ever
seen;” and so the colloquy ended.
	Sir Edward did not show the least affection
for his child even in her illness, when he
visited; her to be sure he patted her on the 
head and smoothed back her shining hair;
remarking at the time “how very like your
mother,” but there was no depth of feeling,
the fountain of his heart was not stirred,
though he saw her prostrated with physical
suffering and yet she was all he had to bestow
affection upon.  The poor girl was longing for
love, her nature required it, she would have
repaid it a hundred fold, but no! no! it was not 
to be.  The selfish, heartless father feasted
his friends and rode after the hounds, while
his only child lay feeble in body, and melan-
choly in mind, without a father’s tender care,
and only inquired after from day to day
through the servants.


