BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.

	"We each begin our duty in the hospital
as probationers on a month's trial. That
beginning is very new to most of us quite
unlike anything in our previous lives.
Before entering the school, some of us may
have imagined that we had a peculiar fitness
for nursing, even if we did not consider our-
selves born nurses. We may have made up
our minds that we knew how to make a
poultice, and to care for the sick by being
kind to them and ventilating their rooms.
We may possibly have read Miss Nightingale's
"Notes" and so are quite sure that we know
something of nursing but that the hospital
training will give us a sort of standing, and
therefore it will be a desirable thing to have.
As we proceed with our training we discover
that we did not know how to make a poultice,
nor how best to care for a sick person. Some
of us, again, know nothing at all about
nursing, but we are not required to know
anything. A head nurse prefers to train the
raw material, so to speak, in her own way.
What is required is that the probationer be
receptive, that she be intelligent and, above
all, active; and in case she has any knowledge
of nursing, or ideas, or opinions, if she is
discriminating she will keep them to herself.
	We have no dreaming time there is no
place for sentiment, and very little for
sympathy in the ordinary sense of the word.
Were we to sympathize with all the woes that
we see, we should be used up, we should
die.
	A probationer enters the ward for the first
time, and is introduced to her head nurse.
She is then probably set to do some simple
piece of work, such as arranging a closet or
folding clothes and the like. On the next
day she will have her regular duties to learn.
As the afternoon goes on she may find her-
self looking at the clock watching for 5:30 P.
M. to come so that she may go off duty, and
she has probably a bad headache. There is a
hospital atmosphere, produced by the smell
of drugs and other unavoidable oders, pre-
ceptible to a fresh nose there are strange
sights and sounds which, combined, give a
sort of shock for the first day. The new nurse
may not be able to sleep that night, and by
the end of the week she may find herself cry-
ing in bed, with pain in her feet and legs.
These little ailments she keeps to herself.
She is anxious to give satisfaction, and she
has to do unquestioningly all that she is

[Column 2]

directed to do. A head nurse is nearly always
considerate, if necessary helping her through
with her work and encouraging her.
	Time goes on and the probationer becomes
a junior, a senior, and finally a head nurse,
and as we proceed with our training, each day
if we will we can learn something we gain
confidence in ourselves and others gain
confidence in us.
	I suppose we are rather an ordinary class
of young women, we never talk of ideals
we may not even think of them perhaps we
have not any. We are essentially matter of
fact we have to deal with human beings and
with facts. Our two years' service to most of
us is a means to an end, and that a material
one, viz: the earning of money. Some one
told us at our commencement that we had
done well to have chosen a profession which
would not go out of fashion and which could
not be done by machinery. That is a good
start anyway, I am speaking of us as a
whole in the school we are told we cease to be
individuals. That does not mean that we
become automatic, for, I suppose there is no
calling for women which needs more per-
sonality, more individuality.
	Whatever may have been the rush,
monotony, or otherwise of our day (and
there are some days in which everything
seems out of joint), when our time to be re-
lieved comes we go away from the hospital
and if we choose we need not give it auother
thought for the next twelve hours. Out of
the hospital we have not a care, unless it is
for ourselves we know how to appreciate our
leisure we are cheerful and apparently happy,
and sometimes frivolous in fact, we are quite
sisterly, as behooves all good nurses to be.
	Our training is divided into what we call
"services." We have so many months train-
ing in the different services. They are
medical, surgical, maternity, gynecological,
eye, skin and throat, and the care of infants.
About six months of our time is spent on
night duty, spread over the two years in
periods of about six weeks' duration. The
large wards of Charity Hospital have each four
nurses—two juniors, one senior and a head
nurse. In the emergency hospitals a nurse
has usually the charge of a ward by herself
with a supervising nurse over all. There are
also "special cases," the patient having a room
to himself and a day and a night nurse
appointed in charge. We each have our
preferences and dislikes, which are of no
account as far as the distribution of the service
is concerned it makes us something to talk
of, but we are under discipline we go where
we are sent.
	We begin our duties in a large ward of
Charity Hospital. The probationer will have
charge of one side of the ward, with the care
of from ten to fifteen patients and all belong-
ing to them. The head or senior nurse will
go round with her and work in with her for
the first time, She is shown how to make
the beds, to change all soiled linen how to
remove a very sick patient from one bed to
auother how to cover a patient and save her
from fatigue while sitting up to have her
bed made the best way for her to get in and
out of bed to keep an eye on the beds that
the patients are able to make themselves, and
so on throughout the details of the morning's
work. The latter part of the day is taken
up with waiting on the patients and keeping
her side in order all the time. The probation
month is especially a time of learning some-
thing new a good deal has to be got into
that month afterward things come more by
degrees. Should the probationer be accepted
she becomes a junior nurse and has the same
kind of work for about three months. She
then goes on night duty she is "on the land-
ing" as we call it, that is, has charge of the


two or three of the wards opening on to that
landing. The junior nurse is feeling some.
what independent and consequential by this
time. She does not have to act by herself;
there is always an experienced nurse on the
top floor to whom she can refer in case of
emergency or otherwise.
	A nurse may never have been up all night
in her life before, so the first night is rather
exciting and anxious; she is very wide awake
until two or three o'clock in the morning when
the effort to keep awake is really painful. A
night nurse does not sleep, that goes without
saying, and should she dose when all is quiet
she has always one ear open. Imagine a
rather young nurse peering around the large
ward with the aid of an antiquated lantern?
It would throw all shadow and the least
possible ray of light and anywhere but where
it was wanted. Sometimes its miserable little
light would go out and the wick have to be
pricked up and relit, then it would spit and
splutter as though it meant to burn well, but
somehow it never would and the gas burnt
low on the landing. When I think of that
lantern I can go all through my night duty
over again. We have a helper to fetch and
carry things for us, and she can be very useful
in many ways. She may be as "good as a
nurse" or she may have a fancy for gossiping
with her friends during the day and so prefer
to sleep at night, and such a lady is rather a
trial.
	The patients have a way of dying at night
in spite of the very best efforts of the nurse
to keep them alive until morning. Some
helpers "never could go anigh a dead body,"
but they "don't mind fetching the things and
standing outside of the screen." It requires
considerable nerve on the part of the nurse to
"lay out" a patient in the small hours of the
morning; when the wards are silent and
gloomy there is something uncanny about it
there is not much of the "beauty of death"
in these cases, but we get used to it after a
time.
	When we become more experienced we have
our emergency hospital night duty. We
occasionally speak of this in rather strong
language; call it "that awful night duty,"
"that deadful night duty." Here is where
a nurse's mettle comes in. She has long
hours—fourteen, and besides the care of the
patients she has the real "ward work" to get
done before eight o'clock in the morning. The
patients in this hospital are very sick; there
are no "chronics," the nurse has critical cases
to watch, and upon her devotion and judgment
the life of the patient man depend. Here the
doctors are hard worked both day and night
and the nurse, if she is considerate, is very
reluctant to call the doctor, and so often has
an anxious time, Some of the cases that
come in during the night are truly
heart-rending The burnt cases are the worst;
if they are not too badly hurt their sensibility
is acute and they suffer dreadful agony.
At about five o'clock the nurse begins to feel
rather badly. She has to brace herself up
and put on a big spurt to get through the
morning's work, and perhaps at eight o'clock
she will go to bed without her breakfast.


