A RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED.

	The Relief Society of the Second Ward in this
City was reorganized on Thursday September
3rd; the death of the former President Sister
Sarah Smith Wheeler, necessitating its reorgani-
zation. The meeting was held at 2 p. m. in the
Ward meeting house. Bishop L. G. Hardy and
Counselors present, also Sister Zina D. H. Young
who presides over the Relief Society as a whole
in all its Stakes and branches, and Sister E. B.
Wells. Sisters Ann Mc'Gregor and Augusta
Leech, Counselors to Sister Wheeler and also
the Secretary, Sister Sarah Mitchell and the
Treasurer, Sister Phebe C. Young, with many of
the teachers and members of the Society made a
fair sized audience. After the usual opening ex-
ercises of singing and prayer, the Bishop placed
in nomination the name of Sister Mary Elizabeth
Bassett as President of the Relief Society of the
Ward, which was voted upon unanimously. Sister
Bassett chose for her Counselors Sister Sarah
Mitchell and Maria Corbett who were sustained
in this position by all present. Sister Margaret
Caine was selected for Secretary, Sister Johanna
Olsen, Ass't Sec., and Sister Phebe C. Young as
Treasurer. These sisters were all sustained b


vote making the organization complete. The
Bishop and his Counselors Brother Gallagher
and Brother Jenson with Brother Wm. Hart set
the new officers apart.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to Sisters Mc'-
Gregor and Leech for their able services during
the many years they had labored in the Society.
Suitable remarks were made by the Bishop, who
gave the sisters every encouragement to perse-
vere in the path of duty; the retiring officers
spoke appropriately, also the newly elected board
of officers, and Pres. Z. D. H. Young gave some
valuable instructions to the sisters, and enjoined
upon them to cultivate love and union, urged
them to patronize home publicatians and especi-
ally the EXPONENT. Sister E. B. Wells followed
in a similar strain, and also explained some
matters not quite clearly understood pertaining
to the National Council and Woman Suffrage
Convention. Meeting closed with singing and
benediction.


