A TRIP TO CANADA.

	Our Duty and Pleasure; by making this our
motto how much more pleasure we can enjoy in
this life, and be all the time preparing wisely for
the next existence. And how pleasant it is to be
associated; and dwell with those we love.
	I left this City May 13, last; a worthy brother
and his wife were my company from Logan to
Canada, all went well on the journey, until we
came to Great Falls the last station in Montana;
this is a thrifty town, pleasantly situated on the
Missouri river, with two iron bridges, several
Churches etc., etc. On Saturday the 18th, it was
announced “no train from Canada until Mon-
day.” All right, Sunday morning at 9 a. m. a
brass band was in full blast, lovely music, there
was a team with five banners, then came 17 citi
zens carriages,and a team with two span of horses
filled with beer kegs. Sabbath Day there, is a
day of pleasure; the people were mostly Scandi-
navians, a gala day. At 3, p. m. a heavy shower
caused the return in less order than they left, but
the 72 kegs of beer had been drank.
	Monday evening we arrived at Lethbridge and
Tuesday morning took carriage and in the eve-
ning arrived at Cardston amidst the dear ones.
My daughter had been blest through the young
sisters fasting and praying and the blessing of
the Relief Society, after a four weeks siege with
lagrippe and as it were, was recued by the bless-
ing of the Lord from leaving a young family with-
out a mother. It called forth a mother’s grati-
tude to the Lord and to the sisters.
	On the 24th of May Pres. Card arrived home
from Utah in good health, business had detained
him much longer than he expected.
	The 2nd of June the Relief Society met at
Pres. Card’s house; before the meeting closed
the news came that Brother Leavitt was dying,
and as he was living but a few steps distant I
was asked to go over; in about fifteen minutes
afterwards all was over. The day before he was
dressed and out of doors, no one thought of his
going to leave us, he was a tower of strength in
the little settlement, always at his post of duty;
all felt the bereavement.
	All here are very busy attending to the duties
of living in a new country, the sisters were ever
diligent in their duties attending meetings and
looking after the needy of which there are but
few, but all well cared for spiritually and tem-
porally. 
	Ten children were added to the number in
Cardston the short time I was there, I never saw
more healthy children than those born in that
country, not one but was fine-looking that I saw
in Canada. The sweet, quiet, spirit of peace that
reigns there is like the former days in Salt Lake.
	On the 5th of June, we were favored with the

[Column 2]
arrival of Wilby Dougall from Salt Lake City,
whose genial and devoted spirit in the Gospel
cheered us all, and the settlement with his music,
at all our meetings especially the Sabbath
Schools.
	We had a number of distinguished visitors
looking after the welfare of the citizens. In this
thrifty little town there are about 400 Latter-day
Saints; the country has been written up on ac-
count of the lovely grass, grain and vegetables
that it produces, but it must be seen to be appre-
ciated.
	The morning quiet (for the sun rises about four
in the Summer and shines right in the North
window), the quiet is somewhat disturbed by
Brother Bate’s wagon filled with cans gathering
up the milk for the cheese factory; about 500
gallons are daily made into cheese; this is quite
a help to the sisters; for butter making they have
a good ice-house, but no refrigerators as yet;
the season here has been cool and rainy as it has
been elsewhere.
	On the 3rd of July at 9, a. m. a true Latter-day
Saint finished a good work upon earth; he was
one of our most useful men, Morgan L. Hinman,
who had been for a long time a sufferer with con-
sumption. So closed the mortal career of this
good faithful man, his wife who is here has
buried 8 children and two husbands, yet like unto
Job patient and true.
	For several days and nights it rained almost
continuously until the water was never higher,
the people lined the banks, their anxiety was so
great.
	On the 13th of July, Monday, at 3 p. m. was
Primary Day, the children of the Associatio
with the officers, the Relief Society and Youn
Ladies’ Association, met at the meeting house,
and this was the parting or farewell spiritual
feast. It was the first time my daughter had at-
tended meeting for a considerable time. The
gifts of the Gospel were bestowed on this occa-
sion to comfort and cheer us, for all present were
separated from loved ones; the Lord is no re-
spector of persons; His spirit is given to all those
who diligently seek for it. After the meeting we
parted with the dear sisters there assembled
knowing in whom to put our trust, which
lightens the parting, and grateful and full of love
we felt to those who had so kindly remembered us.
	On the 14th of July at 9 a. m. we left our dear
ones there, thankful we had enjoyed the privilege
of visiting the dear daughter and family; I had
again a touch of Lagrippe and therefore thought
it best to return home earlier than I had antici-
pated.
	On arriving at Logan, and once more having
the privilege to look upon the Temple it was truly
joyful to me. I stayed to see the friends there
two days and arrived at home in Salt Lake City
on the 23rd of July to meet with the dear ones
here, and see the walls of another Temple, with
its towers almost completed, and the other sacred
edifices wherein we assemble to worship before
the Lord from time to time; and I was in time to
witness with thoughtfulness our silent 24th of
July which caused many reflections in my  mind
upon the changes that have taken place.
	I am pleased that I had the opportunity of
visiting the saints in Canada and I can testify to
their faithfulness, and humility; they are striving
to perform their duties, yet they labor under
many disadvantages, and have not the precious
privileges we enjoy, who live as it were “under
the droppings of the sanctuary.”
	I am grateful to my Heavenly Father that He has
preserved my life to return home again and be
associated with my sisters in the labors of the
Relief Society; and I am ever desirous of mak-
ing duty a pleasure, and I pray for all my dear
sisters that we may ever have the blessing of the
Lord upon our efforts to labor in the line of our
duty to which we have been called, and that we

[Column 3]
may have an especial care for the needy, the aged,
the sick, and the suffering in love and in meek-
ness, and by so doing our efforts will be pros-
pered and great good will be the result.
	I would recommend also to the sisters to sus-
tain our home interests, trade with our own peo-
ple and patronize home industries. The Woman’s
Store has been established by our sisters, let us
sustain it by our works and our faith; and do not
forget to sustain our woman’s paper the EXPON-
ENT, all these things are to our interest and we
should be diligent in little things as well as in
greater ones. Let us pray for each other and
for all the household of faith, these are a few of
my thoughts for you my sisters and may we re-
main faithful in all things unto the end.
			Lovingly Your Sister,
