[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | September | Issue: 3 | Title: MRS. RACHEL FOSTER AVERY. | Author: Unknown]

	MRS. RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.

	“During the recent Executive Com-
mittee meeting of the International Coun-
cil of Women at Paris, the French Coun-
cil held one public session, to which all
the international representatives were in-
vited. There we heard woman suffrage,
between the lines of the witty and bril-
liant reports of the Council’s four depart-
ments: Philosophy, education, labor, and
legislation.
	“Finally, after an address from the In-
ternational President, Lady Aberdeen,
and a word of greeting from each of the
representatives of other national councils,
Baroness Alexandra Gripenberg of Fin-
land expressed her thanks to the noble
women of all lands whose work for the
uplifting of womanhood had, in her opi-
nion, made possible the enfranchisement
of her countrywomen through the act of
May 28, which conferred upon Finnish
women the right to vote and to be elected


to all offices on terms of perfect equality
with Finnish men.
	“Mlle. Monod. president of the French
Council, then called for a few words from
the representative of India, and Madame
Rustem Cama of Bombay, in picturesque
East Indian garb, in a charmingly simple
and at the same time dignified manner,
said, in English: ‘I feel that the one thing
we all ought to work for is to get the right
of suffrage for women. In my own coun-
try we are under foreign rule, and neither
men nor women can vote. We have had,
for the last twenty-one years, a large po-
litical union, and in it men and women
both are delegates. We want the right
of suffrage for women as well as men, for
we have seen, in all countries where men
are freed first and leave the women be-
hind, that it then takes many generations
to bring the women up to an equality with
the men. So we in India have started to-
gether. We want justice for women, and
the right to vote.’
	“The men of Finland, even when their
own rights hung in the balance, were wil-
ling to demand equality of rights for their
countrywomen, and thousands of East In-
dian men associate women with them in
their work for political recognition, and
ask that the women shall come with men
into the kingdom of political freedom.
	“Think of that, American men, who
claim to regard American women so high-
ly, yet are willing to allow your mothers
and sisters to be classed politically with
idiots and criminals!”


[Column 1]
