War Economy in Dress.

Mrs. Lillian H. Cannon.

The great reason for war economy in the use of essential things is that the supply of these articles is not as great as the demand for them. Nearly the whole world is calling upon the United States to furnish them with things that are absolutely necessary for existence. In order to meet this call, rich and poor alike in this blessed land of ours must restrain themselves from buying things that are not indispensable to health and comfort. In ordinary times it would be folly for those who have means not to buy generously, because that might cause a surplus in production which would in turn affect the prosperity of the country. But these are not ordinary times! What we refrain from buying now, especially things we don't need, and which other people of the world do need badly, helps to make the world-supply equal to the world-demand. With this thought in mind no public spirited woman with love of humanity at heart would willingly spend one cent for an article of food, clothing, or furnishing which some one else needs more badly than she. It is not a question of money at all, but a question of the world's supply and demand. The supply is probably great enough, if those, in this country especially, who can well afford to economize will do so, thus releasing supplies for those who are in sore need of them.

Ever since Eve fashioned her first dress of fig leaves women have been more or less concerned over their clothes. It is natural and right that this should be the case, for as that great philosopher Shakespeare said over three hundred years ago, "The apparel oft proclaims the man." He didn't say "always." He was too truthful and wise for that. He said "oft," which is the truth. We are often judged by the clothes we wear; their cleanliness, neatness, style, suitability, becomingness, etc. By "war economy in clothes" this Magazine means, the ability on the part of the wearer to look well clothed and tastefully clothed with the least possible expenditure of money. Any one can wear the same clothes year after year, if the material is good. There is no special virtue in that, but to wear things many years and look well-dressed is a very different thing.

To illustrate: A woman was speaking on economy in a public meeting. Among other things she said: "I have worn this hat for three years, and I expect to wear it three more years, if these war conditions continue that length of time."

"Mercy," whispered a thoughtless young girl to her companion, "the hat looks like a Noah's ark relic now. What will it look like in three years?"

WAR ECONOMY IN DRESS. 91

The dear, sweet woman had made the opposite impression on the young girls from the one she desired and intended. They at once decided they wouldn't economize if they had to look like she did.

The next speaker, neatly and correctly gowned, said practically the same things. She had worn her clothes a long time, too, with no more cost, probably, but her appearance was so dainty and tasteful that the young girls thought if she could look well and wear clothes such a long time they could surely do the same.

To be truly economical in clothing, a woman must bear in mind four things when she is buying: material, color, style, and becomingness. This is true of all articles: hats, coats, suits, dresses, shoes, etc. Let us again quote Shakespeare: "Costly thy apparel as thy purse can buy, but not expressed in fancy; rich, not gaudy."

Can you find anything more to the point in any fashion magazine, or anywhere else? "Costly thy apparel as thy purse can buy." This has to do with the material. By "costly" he means the best of its kind. If a woman is going to have a gingham dress she should buy the best she can afford. It is economical because the colors are fast and it will wear well. The cheap things are often the dear things in the end. A good gingham looks well until it is worn out. A cheap gingham looks badly after the first laundering. If she is going to buy a dress of woolen material the thrifty purchaser should get the best her purse can buy. She shouldn't get silk at all unless she can buy the best. The suitability of the material for the purpose which it is to serve should govern the purchaser, but she should still choose the best quality and value.

Referring to our quotation from Shakespeare, we find he says, "Not expressed in fancy; rich, not gaudy." This is a question of both color and material. Nearly every year we have on the market new weaves of goods. Last year we had jersey cloth. A woman who is buying with economy must resolutely turn away from these new materials because the chances are they will be in style only a short time. She will be a marked woman if she wears them after they have gone out of style. They are always more expensive than the staple materials. Shakespeare would, no doubt, class the jersey cloth with those "expressed in fancy."

There is not nearly so much opportunity of expressing fancy in material, however, as there is in the color chosen. To be economical a woman must give up any idea she may have of buying bright colored clothing and must keep only the neutral shades in materials. Loud checks, mustard, cerise, bright blues, greens, purples, may be bright for a change, but not for steady wear. A woman may wear a navy blue, dark green, black, brown, gray,


or tan suit for years and people be unaware that it is not a new suit, but not so with the bright colors. All women can reckon to the exact date when a friend came out in a Copenhagen blue suit or coat.

The next thing to be considered in our list of economics is that of style. "Be not the first by whom the new is tried, Nor yet the last to lay the old aside." It would be folly in buying new things to select old styles. A woman, however, should be conservative in her selection of styles. She should buy modish things, of course, but not the extremes in style if she wishes to wear her clothes a long time. She should get the best tailoring she can afford. The style she chooses should be as plain and simple as is consistent with the modes then in vogue.

After all that may be said about material, color and style, the one thing that is of supreme importance is the cleanness and neatness of a woman's attire. A dusty suit, or a coat, or shoes with buttons off, proclaim the wearer a dowd, no matter how rich or stylish or becoming the apparel may be.

The question of becomingness in apparel is a very important one. There are so many different types of women that they should study themselves to find out what particular color, etc., is the most becoming to them individually. The curly-haired, dainty little woman looks well in fluffy little frocks, but the classic-featured woman appears ridiculous in them. There are stout women and thin women, short women, and tall women, blondes and brunettes. All must choose their own particular style and color, and not deviate from this wise choice except in minor details.

MARK TWAIN'S OBSERVATIONS.

There are several good protections against temptation, but the surest is cowardice.

Grief can take care of itself, but to get the full value of a joy you must have somebody to divide it with.

There are two times in a man's life when he should not speculate: when he can't afford to and when he can.

Habit is habit, and not to be flung out of the windows by any man, but coaxed down stairs a step at a time.

Training is everything. The peach was once a bitter almond; cauliflower is nothing but cabbage with a college education.

By Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams.

Red Cross.

Occasional inquiries come to this office for information concerning the forming of Red Cross Relief Society Auxiliaries. We should suggest that such inquiries be addressed to Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams, Chairman of the Red Cross Committee.

Patterns and Yarn.

All patterns for Red Cross articles and yarn for knitting will be furnished at County headquarters or through the Mountain Division Red Cross, 14th and Welton Streets, Denver, Colorado.

Surgical Dressing.

The Surgical dressings class conducted in our rooms, under the direction of Mrs. Rathvan, graduated a number of intelligent young women who will be available in good time for class work in other parts of the State.

Our Delegates at the Washington Convention.

Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams and Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who represented the Relief Society in the National Council of Women, were received with friendly consideration on reaching Washington, by Senator Reed Smoot who had reserved rooms in one of the new hotels of the city. The ladies were treated with great consideration and kindness by all members of the Council, from Lady Aberdeen to the last member present. Especially cordial was our old friend, that charming and efficient suffrage worker, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, the special protege of Susan B. Anthony. Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, another delightful and genuine friend and now one of the vice-presidents of the Council, was also extremely cordial and helpful to the ladies.

In Mrs. Williams' five-minute report she conveyed to the Council the greetings of our ninety-year young General President Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, the friend of Susan B. Anthony, Fran-


ces Willard, May Wright Sewell, Lady Aberdeen and all of the old stalwarts in the Council and Suffrage cause. A previous speaker had referred to her organization as the mother of all women's modern activities, it being forty years old in point of organization. Mrs. Williams brought a round of applause when she announced the greetings of the Relief Society which would necessarily be the grandmother of all modern women's organizations, as the Society was over 75 years old.

The following famous speakers were on the program: Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, Countess of Aberdeen, Mrs. John Hays Hammond, Mrs. Julia C. Lathrop, Mr. Herbert C. Hoover, Mrs. William Jennings Bryan, Miss Jane Addams, Lord Eustace Percy, British War Commissioner, Lieut. Edourd de Billy, French High Commissioner, Ex-President William Howard Taft, Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams and Mrs. Martha H. Tingey.

The trend of all speeches was the necessity of reconstructive work after the war.

Utah's Red Cross Membership.

The Christmas Red Cross membership drive ended in this State with the most gratifying, if not startling results. We quote the following from the report of Manager John D. Spencer of this State:

"A total of 34,342 memberships secured, evidenced by $34,342 collected and turned in, was shown by the drive committee, which held a special meeting yesterday afternoon at the Commercial Club. Chairman John D. Spencer and Secretary J. David Larson said that the reports from other sections of the state would bring the total membership up to approximately 65,000.

"This concrete evidence of the signal victory over Denver, which threw down the gauntlet with a challenge that it would secure twice as many memberships as did Salt Lake City, is naturally the source of much gratification to the committee. According to latest reports Denver secured 58,283 memberships, as against Salt Lake's 34,342. Measured by the 1910 census the contrast is even more striking. The 1910 population in Denver is given as 213,381, that of Salt Lake as 92,777. The quota fixed by the national officials of the Red Cross was 10 per cent of the population. Salt Lake County's voluntary quota was 25,000 memberships, the final figures show nearly 10,000 in excess of that number."

Income Tax.

From W. C. Whaley, Collector, Helena, Montana, comes the following: "You won't have to figure out your own income tax all by

PATRIOTIC DEPARTMENT. 95

yourself hereafter. The government is going to send out men to help you. It will be up to you to hunt up these men, who will be sent into every county seat town, and some other towns besides, to meet the people. Postmasters will be able to tell you when the government's income tax man will be around, and where to find him. He will answer your questions, swear you to the return, take your money, and remove the wrinkles from your brow. Returns of income for 1917 must be made between January 1 and March 1, 1918. "Next year, when every married person living with wife or husband and having a net income of $2,000, and every unmarried person not the head of a family and having a net income of $1,000 for the year 1917. must make return of income on the form prescribed, there will be hundreds in every community seeking light on the law, and help in executing their returns. My own district will be divided into districts, with the county as the unit, and a government officer informed on the income tax assigned to each district. He will spend hardly less than a week in each county, and in some counties a longer time, very likely in the courthouse at the county seat town. My office wall in due time advise postmasters and send out notices to the newspapers stating when the officer will be in each county. "It may be stated as a matter of general information that 'net income' is the remainder after subtracting expenses from gross income. Personal, family or living expense is not expense in the meaning of the law. the exemption being allowed to cover such expense. "Practically every farmer, merchant, tradesman, professional man and salary worker and a great many wage workers will be required to make return and pay tax. "The law makes it the duty of the taxpayer to seek out the collector. Many people assume that if an income tax form is not sent, or a government officer does not call, they are relieved from making report. This is decidedly in error. It is the other way round. The taxpayer has to go to the government and if he doesn't within the time prescribed, he is a violator of the law, and the government will go to him with penalties."