THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
JULY 1931
Volume XVIII No. 7

PAINT PRODUCTS Manufactured and sold by Bennett Glass & Paint Co. 61-65 W. First South, Salt Lake City Dealers Throughout Utah, Southern Idaho and Neighboring States.

Sego MILK Puddi pee Predinas, Creams Rival "Ae AW Grocer's

bistinefive Society Printing

See our specimens of Modern Wedding Invitations and Announcements

[he Deseret News 'Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City:

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

VRS CHRISTINE RASMUSSE Jah SE STH EAST CITy iN

PROVIDE A DEFINITE FUTURE

Whether it be a five thousand or a fifty thousand dollar estate you aim to create by savings over a 'certain period—Life Insurance is the one method that will positively assure you the completion of your plan—should you live or should you die.

A new plan has been especially prepared for the Priesthood 'Quorums as' a group, offering a permanent individual contract maturing as a cash retirement fund at age 65 and furnishing protection to loved ones in the event of premature death or permanent total disability.

Full Information Can Be Had Without Obligation on Your Part From

The BIG HOME COMPANY or any authorized representative

BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE €0. Home Office—Salt Leake City

HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager

When Buying Mention Relief Society Meagasine

The. ELIEF SOCIETY AZAZINE

FIELDING K. SMITH

"THE PIONEER WOMAN" From a Statue by Herman A. McNeil

Looking Back to the Old Days is well and good, but the wise thing to do is to look ahead and prepare yourself for the future...

There is no better method in which to brighten the path of the future than through a Beneficial Life Insurance Contract.

Che BIG HOME COMPANY offers you many special features

BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE 0. SALT LAKE CITY

HEBER. J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Manager

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Science is demonstrating more and more the importance of a good bed as a factor of health. Six hours of restful, untroubled sleep rebuilds you as much as eight hours of slumber disturbed by a knotty, bumpy mattress. Equip your beds with

MOOREST Inner A FOUNDATION OF HEALTH:--- berhardts Clerhara INNER SPRING Mattresses Spring Mattresses. The sturdy inner spring is made of 285 "revitalized" coils, linked in 'staggered formation by long helical wires, encased jin strong burlap, around which are layers of long fibre cotton felt. Made entirely of new materials, with a covering of art ticking.

AT YOUR DEALER'S (A Product of Utah Labor)

SALT LAKE, MATTRESS & MFG. CO. PC ((CInvestin Rest}

Goer eset ose 0 e118 ofey ine,

L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory

You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfastion from Cutler Garments. They Are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.

No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Cotton
No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle
No. 577 Fine Cotton, Silk Stripe 1.19
No. 76 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Lisle 1.19
No. 63 Lt. Med. Unbleached Double Back
No- 52 Silk and Wool Double Back
Non Run Rayon, Elbow and Knee Length
Non Run Rayon, Long Legs or Old Style
No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton, bleached 1.98
No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., unbleached Double Back 1.98
No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool 2.85

No. 74 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Cotton Style 2.00
No. 89 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Wool 3.50
No. 64 Ribbed Lt. Med. Cotton 1.19
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy, unbleached
No. 67 Med. Wt. Part Wool 1.69
Length 1.50
8 oz. Heavy Duck 1.95

WHITE TEMPLE PANTS

SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS

In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight. Sizes above 48—20% extra. Marking 15c. Postage Prepaid.

Special— When you order three pair of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on third pair only.

Cutler's 36 SOUTH MAIN ST.

GARMENTS UNDERWEAR

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Vol. 18 July, 1931 No. 7

CONTENTS

Fantastic Tree of the Desert Frontispiece
Home Influence A. E. Bennion 369
The Constitution—Past and Present Attacks Judge Oscar 'W. McConkie 371
The Morning of the World Frank Steele 376
Be Not Too Tired, Mother (Poem) Linnie Fisher Robinson 378
A Beloved Woman Ruth Moody Ostegar and Delia Moody Bates 379
IL@Ke SON Winona F. Thomas 382
Lucy Doney Parkinson Ann Parkison Nibley 383
Night (Poem) Margaret P. Bingham 386
A Time Stroke of Art Minnie I. Hodapp 387
Ann Rushen Keys Paxman Alice P. McCune 394
Utah (Poem) Ann Rosdahl 401
Emma Clouchek Cora Carver Ritchie 402
Frances Mangum Fay Ollerton 404
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 406
Patriotism of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers Julia P. M. Farnsworth 407
Champions Ina Dawn 408
The Higher Patriotism Nicholas Murray Butler 409
A Wish (Poem) Mary Ellen Fletcher 410
Sealed With the Peace Pipe Allen Buice Hunt 411
Covered Wagons Elsie E. Barrett 414
Cottonwood Stake Maternity Hospital Emily M. Carlisle 415
Notes to the Field 417
Notes from the Field 419
Straining Trees 422
Editorial: Length of Days 423
June Conferences 424
Dean Milton Bennion Honored 425
Where are Your California Friends and Relatives? 426
Back to School 426

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah

Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c.

The Magaine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.

Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.

Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.

Ca LAUN DRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.

LET US SAVE YOU MONEY

No matter what you need in the way of furnishings for your home, come here for them. We have the styles, the quality, the variety and the value! A visit to our store will prove of real interest to you!

COME!

GRANITE FURNITURE CO. Sugar House, Murray, Park City, Bingham W. B. Richards, Jr., Manager

LDS. GARMENTS

Good grade and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady.

Postage prepaid. Sample on request.

147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave $1.10
382 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt. 1.50
208 Lt. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot 1.35
222 Rayon Striped Combed Cot 1.65
258 Med. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot. 1.85
628 Mere. Lisle Lt. Wt 2.00
748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.00
98 Rayon Special 1.25
284 Ladies' crepe rayon 1.90
264 Ladies' rayon silk 2.00
805 Ladies' non-Dropstitch Rayon 2.00
267 Men's rayon silk 2.25
309 Men's non-Dropstitch Rayon 2.25
1118 Wool' and Cotton Mixed 3.50

BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years! 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

HINTS TO THE WOMEN

Always-be sure to do your buying at Sears. We guarantee to save you money on every item purchased.

Sears Roebuck %& Co. Broadway at State—Salt Lake City, Utah

FOR --- ALL Painting Inside—Outside Use BENNETT'S Papel PAINT PRODUCTS Manufactured and sold by Bennett Glass & Paint Co. 61-65 W. First South, Salt Lake City Dealers Throughout Utah, Southern Idaho and Neighboring States.

Every Item Priced

It's easy to know what your bill will be in an O. P. Skaggs System Store. This is because every item is priced—the item itself is priced and a tag above again names its price. This way, every customer knows what she's spending as she selects her foods.

"A Surety of Purity"

USE HUSLER'S FLOUR Made in SALT LAKE CITY

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Home Influence By A. E. Bennion HERE are many boys, yes, and even girls too, who have at' some time in their lives tried smoking just once, more out of curiosity perhaps than anything else just to see what it was like. Fortunately once usually proved more than enough as nature retaliated by refusing to retain the unaccustomed nicotine. "Well if this makes me as sick as this, I thought," confessed one young man to his mother in after years when he had become an outstanding figure in athletics "smoking is not good for me." When at college in the East he wrote, "You know, Mother, I am out in the world among many fine men whose standards are different from those ideals of the Latter-day Saints. I have been taken to the gilded palace of vice when it would have' been easy to have teken a smoke, a drink, or done even worse, but I felt my father's presence beside me, the strength and purity of his soul reaching out from the other side to shield that same strength and purity of his son." On another occasion he said to her, "Mother, the more I mix with other men, the more I am convinced what a good man my father was. To me he is like an angel, a little less than a god." Another young man of the same family seemed to have a natural liking for tobacco. In his business which required him to ride alone at night, tired and often worried, he found a cigar rather soothing and was slowly but surely acquiring a habit which soon might become almost impossible to break. One day when his mother was visiting him he lit a cigar and began smoking. "My son," she said in astonishment, "'is that what you've come to?" He looked confused and abashed, giving the usual lame excuses. "Well," she said, "what about your children? How can you teach them that a Prophet of the Lord has said that tobacco is not for the body and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle. Are you making yourself a fit teacher for them?" He threw his cigar away. He has a large family now and although he is still fond of the odor of tobacco, his early training and the pride and love of his parents who had given him the torch to carry on have prevented him from returning to the habit. Institutions cannot take the place of the home with the child. Even foster parents are better than these. Auxiliary associations help and do untold good but at best they only supplement. The theme of the White House Conference seemed to be all the way through "Back to the Home—a home for every child and that love and security which a home provides." eee on ae. Se <8 SI wee s —Keystone Photo Service, All Year Club Photo. FANTASTIC TREE OF THE DESERT Strange is the Joshua tree of the desert. This tree is one of the most characteristic growths of the desert section of southern California. Its fantastically weird formation casts strange shadows on the shifting sands of the western country. The Joshua Tree was named by the Mormons and is the hoary old man af the desert—one of the sixteen species of the yucca family. THE Relief Society Magazine Voit. XVIII JULY, 1931 No. 7 The Constitution—Past and Present Attacks By Judge Oscar W. McConkie HE Lord is mindful of His children and moves mysteriously in bringing about His purposes for their advancement. The coming forth of the Constitution was a part of His plan and strangely enough the quarrels of Maryland and Virginia drove the opening wedge. They sought agreement effecting the navigation of adjacent waters. A conference followed, out of which sprang new hope for a better understanding between all the States. Economic and _ political problems sorely oppressed them. Their impoverishment, however, did not extend to the patriotic, courageous, or intellectual plane of Colonial citizenry. Indeed, although progress, since that day defies the imagination, eclipses human comprehension, motives have not improved, truer patriotism has not been found, nor has human intellect conceived a nobler design. As to the relative greatness of the delegates among whom were Washington and Franklin, I make no attempt at comparison, but probably the foremost comprehending political student and man of political tact and vision amongst them was James Madison. He it was who drafted the constitution as it was presented to the convention and probably had more to do with mal.- ing it what it is than any other man. He was affectionately recognized as "the father of the Constitution." It was he who proposed that an assembly of delegates from all the States meet at Annapolis. Only five States responded but their delegates embalmed their memories by adopting_a resolution drafted by Alexander Hamilton, "to take into consideration the situation of the United States, to devise such further provisions as should appear to them necessary to render the Constitution of the Federal Government adequate to the exigencies of the Union." a' A League of Mutual Protection had been formed, to which each Colony sent two commissioners. Sons of Liberty organizations sprung up promiscuously. The Stamp Act was an issue and public sentiment had become inflamed. The Declaration of Independence and the Revolution were natural sequences. Years of difficulty had prepared the public mind for radical governmental departure but it was not ready for the Constitution. Although unorganized the Colonists were independent ¢ gOvernments, and even though they s suspended like broken parts of a nest which each disturbing breeze threat- 372 ened the more, yet clung they to their segregated independence. The Articles of Confederation with no centrally empowered executive or central means or method of unified Colonial enforcement had failed. To them the Colonists but passively subscribed. Commerce was definitely uncertain. Disputes continued unsettled. The war debt hovered over them like a dark cloud and actual anarchy was threatening. Their freedom, wrenched from tyranny by the sword, was gravely endangered. Appeals were made to the Governor of the universe, whose all seeing eye followed them. The new republic's ordained destiny was hidden, but a few strong willed, courageous and faithful men pushed ever onward. The Maryland and Virginia discord was transformed into opportunity and the hour struck for the birth of a new governmental order. At this state of affairs the thread of communication between our fathers and the Throne of Grace was lighted to surpassing brilliance, the brightness of which was one day to encircle the western hemisphere in rays of protective light. For four months fifty-five delegates, for that was the number who wrote the Constitution of the United States, earnestly devoted themselves. In patriotic purpose, in moral and mental powers supported by wide experience, they were the most admirably equipped body of statesmen that modern times had seen. Their accomplishments surnassed human effort. Most of them had served as governors, members of Congress, or military commanders. Two of them became presidents of the United States. One a VicePresident, others foreign ministers, senators. Cabinet officers, and supreme court judges. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The convention was first in order on May 25, 1787, when Governor Randolph of Virginia presented to it Madison's draft, the "Virginia Plan." It was a radical departure from the Articles of Confederation, providing for a complete change of government and proposing a federal union with legislative, executive, and judicial co-ordinate departments. The small states struck back with the "New Jersey Plan," which was little more than an offer to amend the Articles of Confederation. After many modifications the first prevailed but not until certain failure had several times seemed imminent. Sectional interests made agreement difficult, improbable in fact, until compromise settlements were effected. It was agreed that the Congress should be composed of representatives of the people while the Senate should be made up of representatives of the States. The question of slavery had threatened the convention with certain dissolution but the delegates agreed that three-fifths of the slaves should be counted in determining Congressional representation, although the question was not actually settled without Civil War and blood-shed three quarters of a century later. Commercial and agricultural sectional differences created a third paramount disturbance which also touched slavery. Could it be solved? New York's delegates had gone home and the South threatened to withdraw. Massachusetts wavered. Delegates stroked their chins questioningly, but patience, faith and goodly purpose were rewarded. New light filtered through the dismal atmosphere and the South agreed that, except as to export taxes, Congress should control commerce and the North consented to leave African slave trade open until 1808. Providential de- y THE CONSTITUTION sign had triumphed. But many problems remained yet unsolved. The powers, duties, and relationships of the Executive, the Legislative, and the Judicial departments of the government, including the Supreme 'Court, must be prescribed, as well as the tenure of office fixed. Not until September 17, 1787, was harmonious agreement reached, at which time the document was 'signed by the delegates. MERICANS affirm and_ foreigners agree that our Constitution is unparalleled by any human document, that it ranks above all documents of its kind. It created a federal-national government without historic -precedence, admirably combining national strength with individual liberty, as well as striking a fine balance between state and national rights. Unlike Grecian statesmen our fathers saw the need of union, and unlike Roman leadership they avoided the possible tyrannies of it. For the first time in human governments a balance was struck between national strength and individual liberty in such manner as to secure the advantages of both. The wisdom of the ages as expressed in human conduct, oral tradition, written charters, constitutions, and governmental organizations, contributed to it. It was the culmination of centuries of institutional growth, transformed into an American plan. Of it Gladstone has said: "The American Constitution is the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man," while Bryce declared: "It ranks above every other written constitution for the intrinsic excellence of its scheme, its adaption to the circumstances of the people; the simplicity, brevity, and the precision of its language, its judicious mixture of definiteness in principle with 373 elasticity in details," and_ that 'America was the first great nation in history to solve the greatest of all governmental problems,—to blend Nationality and Democracy in perpetual wedlock under one government, in such proportion as to secure the benefits of both; to protect local self-government by the mighty arm of a great nation, which is strong enough to perpetuate its own existence." UT its adoption meant the wresting of highly prized powers from sovereign States and giving them to the national government, upon which policy the people looked askance. The proposed innovation of re-organizing the government into legislative, executive, and judicial co-ordinate departments, of making the citizen rather than the State amenable to national law, of giving to the central government the exclusive right to coin money, wage war, treat with foreign powers, lay tariffs, etc., of vesting in the Supreme Court the authority to interpret the Constitution and to empower it with the unprecedented right of passing upon the constitutionality of legislative enactments, were so radical departures from established institutions that approximately one-half of the colonists found themselves in active opposition. But its sound basis won the confidence of the people and the new government became a haven of peace for mankind's oppressed, in which Europeans blended into a great American nation, occupying a wider area than any other nation that spoke a single tongue and enjoyed universal institutions. No where else was manhood suffrage so nearly complete, free schools so general, religious liberty so bounteously bestowed and the equality between states so definitely established. Of 374 it Washington aptly summarized: "The pivots upon which the whole machinery must move are, first, the general Government is not invested with more powers than are indispensably necessary to perform the function of a good Government; and, second, that these powers are so distributed among the Legislative, Executive, and Judicial Branches into which the general Government is arranged, that it can never be in danger of degenerating into a Monarchy, an Oligarchy, an Aristocracy, or any other despotic or oppressive form, so long as there shall remain any virtue in the Body of the People." Again, to those who would temporize to please, he had answered: "If, to please the people, we offer what we ourselves disapprove, how can we afterwards defend our work? Let us raise a standard to which the wise and the honest can repair; the event is in the hand of God." HE command had thundered. From Sinai: '"Proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof." Upon liberty happiness depends, to attain which participation in government is prerequisite. So, in the Constitution, with the Bill of Rights attached, divinely ordained and unalienable gifts appear, given to man through the natural process of inspired human agency. Notwithstanding it embodied man's highest fundamental rights, and unfolded before every citizen the protection of the whole government, a turbulent population wavered and hesitated. But the result was inevitable. The philosophy of divine right to rule in civil affairs was tumbling and upon its ashes, 'ere the flames of its burning licked up the last vesture of it, was hoisted the doctrine that, as to life, liberty, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and happiness, all men are created equal. MONGST those valiant men who brought forth the Constitution was John Marshall. Political award had made him Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. Against waves of attack he stood like a stone barrier. His master mind and keen judicial insight were supported by an honest and courageous conviction. So completely did his faculties coordinate that he fastened upon the Constitution an interpretation that preserved it. He devoted his powers first to its formation, then to its adoption and finally to its preservation. It is a coincident that on July 8, 1835, when his hand was stilled and the nation mourned his going, Liberty Bell, while tolling at his passing, like a great heart broken in joint adventure, cracked and like his pen, was stilled. H UMAN experiences and intelligences grade over so wide a range that uniformity of thought or philosophy can scarcely be expected. Discontent with things as they are is so widespread and so many people are willing to temporize "to please" or for political or financial advantage that greater numbers support attack. The age is one of fascism, of communism, of dictatorship, of overthrowing established institutions, when representative government is challenged and threatened. Competition in experiments is widespread. Governments have fallen 'and strange ideas have fastened themselves upon the hearts of the people of the world. Since 1870 a dozen nations, representing more than a third of the earth's pdpulation, have overthrown their monarchial governments. Millions are restless. Respect for established institutions no longer checks the surg- THE CONSTITUTION ing masses. The hour is insecure. The nations tremble like the sea in the presence of threatened storm. But we see only the shaking surface. The milling waters beneath are hidden from our view. What shall the end be? 'The event is in the hand of God." UT other enemies await us. Other hideous monsters have grown so large as to threaten the security of the government. At the moment crime tears ruthlessly at the very vitals of our civilization. In September, 1929, the North American Review stated that one man, Al. Capone, in 1926, collected $70,000,- 000 through Chicago vice organization and that in 1928 he spent $30,- 000,000 for protection. It is asserted that during his rise and rule there were 4,000 homicides in the city, and that for every one of its men, women and children $45.00 annually, or a gross sum of $136,000,000 is paid to rackets. Of Chicago's 366 murders in 1926 but 70 were convicted and 8 executed. In 1927 only 87 of 379 were convicted and 3 executed, while out of 399 murders in 1928 there were no executions and but 77 convictions. The regular price of murder in Chicago, it is said, is $50.00 to $10,000.00, depending on the prominence of the victim. The force of the gangster is everywhere. If he is caught a defense fund of unlimited proportions awaits the trial and not infrequently witnesses, jurors, and judges are bought. In the United States, during eight recent years, homicides increased 64%, population considered insurance company losses through embezzlement increased 1000% in ten years, while similarly burglary losses for the same period increased 1100%. Crime costs the United States approximately three times the annual receipts of the government 375 itself, and although in this country a million persons are annually committed to penal institutions we must look beyond enforcement officers for the preservation and enforcement of law. Officers can not enforce the law. They can do little more than quiet outbreaks and apprehend and care for persons who have already committed offense. Enforcement must come from the people themselves through obedience to law, if for no other reason than because it is the law. Obviously the government can not station a guard at every man's door. The state must operate on the theory that the people will themselves enforce the law by personal obedience. O RIGINALLY opposition to the Constitution was argumentative, by conversion. [*ailing in that, resort was had to congress and the courts. Then came a new age and with it new methods. What could be more effective than to break down the moral ideals of the people, to destroy faith, to deny God, to trample in the dust the institution of prayer, to laugh at virtue, to kill hope, to add foreign and degenerate philosophy, to organize and commercialize crime? Therein danger awaits. Dark clouds are gathering and if the people of America do not turn the tide then what power shall stop impending storm? SPHE Latter-day Saints affirm and in testimony declare that the Constitution was established under inspiration of the Almighty. Their people unitedly pledge their full powers to its preservation. They acclaim it as a guarantee of "just and holy principles.' They teach that disobedience to it is offensive to God and continuously, through teaching and moral suasion endeavor to develop wholesome respect and 376 intelligent and patriotic conformity to it. Like Moses in the wilderness they hold it up as he displayed the brazen serpent, that all who will may look and live. But it is the people who must look. The view of wise leadership will not preserve us or our institutions if we do not ourselves look. Its shelter carries reThe Morning RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sponsibility. To be a son of the American Republic is not a light thing. If we would preserve the liberties that we now enjoy, the institutions that our fathers nurtured and preserved, it must be through obedience to law, by turning our faces toward God and the Constitution which He so benevolently inspired. Of the World By Frank Steele TON, scholar, writer and lecturer, had something significant to say recently about that much-discussed subject of religion. Surveying the achievements of science and their relationship with religion this great English observer said: "The organic thing called religion has in fact the organs that take hold on life. Man has taken to himself again his own weapons: will and worship and reason and the vision of the plan in things, and we are once more in the morning of the world, and whatever be the truth about mammals and monkeys that is the exact truth about the survival of present-day religion: it is surviving because nothing else can survive." "The morning of the world." How suggestive is this of the noble words of another great thinker and writer, Parley P. Pratt, who in contemplating the outpouring of truth in these modern times exclaimed: (5 ton. K. CHESTERThe morning breaks, the shadows flee, Lo, Zion's standard is unfurled; The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world. The world, like the Prodigal, has grown weary of its materialism. Again quoting Chesterton, it has found that only spiritual things survive. The Prodigal discovering only disillusionment and remorse at the end of his mad quest for pleasure and riches, came to himself 'and turned again to his father. Likewise, the world in the past year or more has found that "treasures on earth" can be swept away over night and that the morning brings its regrets. Humbled, men are turning to the Father, are seeking once more the security of their spiritual home and through the whole experience of the war and the years of readjustment following, including the economic crisis from which the world is now gradually emerging, there shines the vision of a marked religious revival. 'Julius Raskob, the financier and economist, realising this deeper, sounder need said not long ago: "Our materialism has broken down and we need spiritual bases on which to rest our lives." HE centennial year of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was anticipated with the keenest of interest by the members of the church. It was the hope, the expectation of many that it would be a year marked 'by some special manifestation of God's favor to the Church, a year of revelation, of spiritual uplift. The centennial THE MORNING OF was an occasion of signal thanksgiving, rejoicing and blessing to the people, but the year also brought a financial panic probably unparalleled in the economic history of America. During this stress period few escaped. I*ortunes were swept away as one stock collapse followed another. Men rated as independent saw their life's savings vanish. I'armers and ranchers met a decline in the price of their products that spelled disaster. Scores of salaried men 'were thrown out of employment while others saw their incomes cut down as employers hastened to "cover up" by curtailing all along the line. In this confusion a new spirit was born. Out of the chaos grew a realization of the paramount value and worth of spiritual things and we are wondering now as we look backward lif this financial collapse, during the year of centennial celebration, was not a blessing, if perchance it was not a means of bringing us closer to God. A stake president said recently: "We are experiencing hard times it is true, but they are making us more humble, better Latter-day Saints. We note a revival of interest in every department of our stake work." In this return to God, and to 'spiritual values, a movement not confined to our own faith, men are looking out upon the world with more charity, with more of Christ and less of creed. There is more tolerance; less bigotry.' Men's sympathies and horizons are enlarging as the bigger Christianity is revealed. The Latter-day Saints are becoming better known. And bitterness is uprooted when the fidelity and Christian character of our people become apparent. We are mixing more with the world; the days of our isolation are gone. The coTHE WORLD Sd operative spirit is gaining ground. The leaven of the Gospel is being disseminated through personal ministry and contact, by means of the spoken word, and also by that strange natural force harnessed by science and quite properly utilized by the church—the radio. Never has there been such a world-wide flood of Christian teaching and the major note is that sounded by our own church in its broad but no less decisive proclamation of the fuller Gospel. While this new status brings with it new problems and new responsibilities to which the church will have to address itself, it is significant of the times, of that gradual but persisting trend toward the Golden Age of the world when peace and goodwill shall prevail in the hearts of men everywhere. This reviving interest in spiritual matters is an answer to those noisy propagandists who seem to take sinister delight in predicting the decay of institutionalized religion and its ultimate downfall. But this is not all. We have additional reason for believing that Chesterton is right and Dr. Harry Elmer Barnes is wrong when he talks about the "Twilight of Christianity.' We have also good reason for believing Chesterton's analaysis of contemporary thought is more trustworthy than that of E. Boyd Barrett whe in a recent article paints the following gloomy picture: "The churches are for the most part intellectually bankrupt and spiritually decadent. There is no light upon the horizon. And, as far as we know, no Prophet hides in the desert eating locusts and wild honey, the while he prepares his soul to deliver a saving message to men. "There lies immediately before us a period of pagan orgies and debauch. The mystery of mysteries is too baffling for our tired minds. For the wisest among us there remains the privilege of gloom 378 and sadness—also, perhaps, the dream of resurgent hope in the distant future." Our answer to this dismal forecast is that from another quarter is coming added strength to our faith. Science, long looked upon as the foe of religion, is taking a hand as the ally of the Christian faith in its fight against the materialism and atheism of the day. It was the late Sir J. W. Dawson, president of McGill University at Montreal, a great philosopher and a great man, who said: "I know nothing of the origin of man, except what I am told in the Scriptures—that God created man. I do not know anything more than that, and I do not know of any man who does." The distinguished American scientist, Dr. Millikan, is representaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tive of an increasing group of sincere and honest thinkers who see no conflict between true science and that religious conception which rises above narrow dogmatism and denominationalism. ''Science has laid the foundation for a new and a stupendous advance in men's conception of God, for a sublimer view of the world and of man's place and destiny in it." He affirms that religion is one of the world's supremest needs, and one of the greatest contributions any one can make to world progress will consist in furnishing an example to the world of how the religious life can evolve intelligently, wholesomely, inspiringly and reverently, completely divorced from all superstition and all unwholesome emotionalism." Be Not Too Tired, Mother By Linnie Fisher Robinson The day and its splendor of colors is gone, Close veiled by the velvety darkness. The winds of the night creep softly by, Rustling the leaves "neath the kildeer's cry, While the lamps of the hearth are. Lighted. Wee little birds are hushed and abed *Till morn and the sunshiny glory. Mother's wee tots are all washed and fed, Eagerly waiting the gift of a story; Be not too tired, Mother! What shall you tell them, though fed, they are hungry; Hungry for light, though day has far gone. Each little soul's hungry for beauty, Each little pulse for manly deeds done; Each child wants a wee bit of heaven. Give them truths that eternally glow; Let each look at life through a window Unwarped and clean, for so they shall grow, Crooked or straight by the strength of thy story; Be not too tired, Mother! A Beloved Woman By Ruth Moody Ostegar and Delia Moody Bates T WAS a difficult lesson that was being recited that cold day many winters ago at the B. Y. A. Student after student arose only to meet the discouraging thunder of the professor: "Wrong! Sit down." His patience finally exhausted by the poor preparation of the class, the teacher sternly glanced about the room. "Is there one student in this class,' he challenged, "who can state the answer to that question correctly?" Then there arose a tall, homely, country girl. She was clad in illfitting clothes; she was a bit timid; but she knew the answer, and knew she knew it. Once upon her feet, however, timidity and the professorial scowl got the better of her so that she jumbled her words until the instructor again roared: 'Wrong! Sit down." Fire flashed in the eye of the girl —fire and determination. She jumped again to her feet. "Then Ill get it right!" she vowed. And she did. The next time she recited to the entire approval of her professor. This splendid spirit of determination to do a thing just as it should be done, to triumph over all obstacles, has been in evidence during the entire lifetime of Sarah Blake Moody, recently passed to her reward. She had a loftly ideal of one's duty to his fellow-man, and performed it in a singularly inspired manner.! ARAH BLAKE was the third of ' the twelve children born to those splendid pioneers, William and Mary Blake. Father Blake, a man of great integrity, and a staunch Mormon, was Bishop of his Ward. The girl's youth was a hard one, for to her, the eldest girl, fell the SARAH BLAKE MOODY task to which eldest daughters are forever set apart, that of caring for the younger ones. "T was a homely girl," she often confessed, "homely and awkward, and with large feet. I was always self-conscious until I grew up and studied dressmaking. For, while mother was a master hand at dressing little boys, she despaired of her efforts to sew for her girls, 380 "The dress just doesn't look right," she would sayshaking her head, "but I don't know how to make it right." But if Sarah was homely as a girl, well may we ponder the growth of beauty in her soul that effected the astonishing metamorphosis in her physical self, for in later years of her life she was considered a beautiful woman, noble of countenance, lovely of eye, poised in her bearing. Upon completion of her elementary schooling, Sarah entered the B. Y. A. Here she began in earnest a struggle for education which lasted all her life. When, after her death, we tenderly lifted one by one the note books, the journals, the loose sheets of manuscript from "Mother's Box," which, during her life was always sacred to her eyes alone, we were amazed at the mass of material before us. There were notes on reading, on lectures, on her own thoughts; page upon page of comprehensive indexed notes. Here was a woman in whom the period of seminary instruction was only a heginning of education; who all her life sought ravenously to obtain the treasures of knowledge that are man's heritage in this day and age. Upon being graduated from the B. Y. A. At the age of seventeen, she taught her first school in the little mountain town of Elkhorn. She loved teaching, and eventually abandoned dressmaking as a profession to continue teaching, in Heber, - and elsewhere. T was the merest of whims, she said, which caused her to go suddenly to Arizona, where one of her brothers had already migrated. As a teacher of Pima, Arizona, she met the county school superintendent, Wm. A. Moody, who was later to fulfill that part of her patriarchial blessing which promised: "Thou RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE shalt be blessed with a choice husband, in whom thou shalt delight." This young man had just returned from a Samoan mission, where he had lost a young wife. He had a four-year-old daughter who had been born on the islands. An immediate and _ reciprocal interest sprang up between him and Miss Blake, which culminated in a marriage in the Salt Lake Temple on May 17, 1899, By marrying this young man she had elected to remain and pioneer a rough country, rather than return to more settled Utah. She lived in a tiny lumber dwelling in Solomonville. All about were the adobe huts of Mexicans, interspersed with a sprinkling of small houses occupied by Americans. Just a step or two from her door the mesquite and chapparel stretched away for miles and miles. During the day the heat intense and the dust botherwas some. But always at sundown, the crickets, tiny troubadors of the night, sang their faint lay to heaven. Later the family moved to Thatcher, prospered, and had a home which was a delight to her, keenly sensitive to beauty as she always was. One by one the babies came to the home, and the dining table expanded board by board until presently ten cheery faces gathered about three times a day for mother's delicious meals. During the seventeen years that she had made her home in Thatcher, she was in turn ward president of the Y. L. M. I. A.,, stake president of the same organization, and finally stake president of the Relief Society. "T bless thee with wisdom," her patriarchial blessing had promised her. 'Thou shalt be a wise counselor to thy sex." And again: 'The love of truth shall dwell in thee as a fountain of pure water * * * A BELOVED WOMAN thy mind shall overflow with truth to give light to many." Wise beyond her years, she had long heart-to-heart talks with girls and women. Her understanding heart and keen sympathy won for her the general love and respect of those about her. All came with their troubles—the motherless girl, the girl who had done wrong, the girl away from home, the mother who was having a hard time with her daughter. She helped them all. Bu never was she so busy with her church work as to neglect her family, for she might have been crowned "Mother Laureate" so nearly was she the perfect mother. When she sensed that a child was perplexed, she called him to her, and just discussed the matter in a sympathetic, loving manner, until the child's stuffy thoughts were ventilated, and he could come to a clear conclusion as to what was right of his own reasoning. She said, "Give a child ideals, teach him what is tight, then place the responsibility upon him. Teach him that he will have to suffer for his own sins. You cannot live your child's life for him. You can only teach him, and stand by when he needs you." She was also alert to even the slightest neglect on the part of the children of their father, being just as loyal to her husband as to her children. "What spoils many a home," she averred, "is that the woman is all mother and not enough wife." This attitude accounts, in part, for statements so often made that theirs was an ideal marriage. When, in 1907, Bishop Moody was called to preside over the Samoan Mission, he was forced to leave Sister Moody with a number of small children. But whether she 381 had to cope with measles, bills, or adolescent girls, during the three years of his absence, she didn't complain. PON her husband's return, the pair were appointed to act as superintendent and matron of the Arizona Industrial School for boys and girls. Out of this experience grew her firm conviction that prevention is so much better than cure with regard to young folk. A_ wilfully broken home, she felt, was a direct sin against the helpless child, and in many cases responsible for his falling into iniquity. It was during this period that she lost her eldest son, for whom she had waited and prayed whilst four girls were born. This parting with her small son in a sudden and tragic manner was a great blow. This is how she met it: "T had a great love for my boy, but he doesn't need it now. I shali not let that great love go to waste, but shall give it to these unfortunate children of the Reform School, who so need help and guidance to make of themselves useful, happy men and women." In 1920 the family moved to Phoenix, Arizona. Another move, some years later, took them to San Diego, California. In both these places Sister Moody was given an opportunity to serve, being president of the Y. L. M. I. A. In Phoenix, and president of the Relief Society in San Diego. HR daughters had now begun to marry and leave her. So one by one, there were stored again in the closet, the boards of the dining table, until it shrank to its original size and accommodated but four persons. Comparatively free of home ties, she deliberately chose to cultivate 382 her mind, rather than to waste her hours at card parties or in idle gossiping. She enrolled at night school in literary classes, and wrote articles and stories, a number of which have appeared in church magazines from time to time. She was a firm believer in "plain living and high thinking," and had no time for the pursuits of restless society women. The discipline she had always imposed upon herself had given her a strong self-control and a serene outlook on life. Envy, self-pity, vanity, and other weaknesses common to many of her sex had small hold upon her. She was a splendidly well-balanced woman. [Even the heart trouble which confined her to bed for many weeks, and ultimately caused her death, was triumphed over by her splendid bravery. Her last days—happy days indeed, except for the illness—were spent at Berkeley, California. Here she was first counselor to the president of San Francisco Stake Relief Society. This was the first time RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in the twenty-five years of her public service, civic as well as religious, that she had been other than president of an organization. Shortly before the end, which came on April 25, 1930, she made the following statement: "T can go better than any one else in the family. I have figured it out. It is best." In the last great' test, she didn't falter. "Feed my sheep," saith the Master. This command she took particularly to herself during her lifetime. Always she was to be found cheering, counseling, succoring those in need. We can be sure that the sustenance she gave His "sheep'"— sustenance both of spirit and mind —-was unadulterated, nourishing, and free from tare or darnel. And we who loved her most, as mother, wife, teacher, sister, associate, or friend, jealously press these memories of her to our hearts in hallowed memoriam of a _ noble woman and a great spirit. Love Song By Winona F. Thomas With you, I think of moon-light and of roses; Of silver canyons, lighted by the moon; Of jagged peaks, and lakes in hidden valleys; Of flowery hills, beneath the skies of June. I seem to find you in the crimson sun-set. Each red leaf floating down's a memory. In the silhouettes of pine-trees on the sky-line A token of affection I can see. You've even cast your spell on all the song-birds And taught the wind to sing of love to me. The silver brook that dances down its channel, A glad and glorious love-song seems to be. With you I always feel the calm of evening, When a crescent moon is sinking in the west. And in your arms, protected, I will find, dear, The sweet content a child knows, when at rest. Lucy Doney Parkinson By Ann Parkinson 'Nibley ISTER LUCY DOONEY Sister Parkinson's well rounded S PARKINSON, widow of life was filled with activities and acPresident George C. Parkinson, complishments in Church work and died at her home in the Hillcrest social service. At the age of twenty Lucy Donry ParKINSON Apartments, Salt Lake City, on she was chosen President of the May 2d, 1931. Born on March 28th, Young Ladies Mutual Improvement 1861, at Franklin, Idaho, she had Association of the Franklin Ward, just passed her 70th birthday. Which position she held until made 384 President a short time later of the Primary Associations of the Oneida Stake, following which she served for twelve years in the Stake Presidency of the Relief Society of the same Stake. The parents of Sister Parkinson were John and Ann Temperance Doney, who joined the Church at Devenport, Devonshire, England and in 1856, crossed the ocean to America in the sailing ship "Samuel Curling" enroute to Salt Lake Valley. Upon their arrival at lowa City in the States the Doneys were selected among others to cross the plains in the first handcart company of pioneers, arriving in Salt Lake Valley on September 26th, 1856. The hardships and sufferings of this first handcart company are a matter of church history. The journey was commenced with 266 souls, seven of whom died and were buried on the plains. Except in cases of severe illness, men, women and children walked the entire distance of 1300 miles and pulled their rudely constructed handcarts containing their entire earthly possessions. Six weeks after commencing the trip Sister Doney gave birth to a daughter, Mrs. Robert G. Lowe of Franklin, Idaho, who is living today, and who has the distinction of being the only child born in this company. During the voyage across the ocean Sister Doney's - baby daughter Ann Temperance was stricken with whooping cough and after a day and night on the train out of Boston, the baby died. The train halted long enough at Toledo, Ohio, for her to be buried. Upon the day of Sister Lowe's birth, her Mother walked and took her turn in pulling the handcart, having walked twenty miles on the day of her baby's birth. For ten days thereafter the baby and Mother were RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE permitted to ride in one of the two covered wagons in the party, which was loaded with food and supplies, and thereafter for about a week she rode in a handcart pulled by her husband, after which she walked the remaining distance to Salt Lake Valley. Immediately before and after her baby's birth the Mother waded numerous streams and rivers and continued the march from day to day without opportunity even to dry her clothing until camp was made at night. She would carry her baby in her apron to protect it from becoming wet in crossing streams and from being scratched by brush and brambles. Upon their arrival in Utah the Doneys first made their home at Payson, where they resided until the spring of 1860, at which time they joined a party of Saints in the colonization of what is now North Cache Valley in Idaho. On April 13th, 1860, with twelve other families they established camp on the site of the present city of Franklin, Idaho, which was the first white settlement in the State, and in recognition of which the Idaho State Legislature later designated June 15th of each year as "Idaho Day," a State holiday. It was here among these primitive and pioneer conditions that Sister Lucy was born within the walls of the rudely constructed Fort in which the colony lived until the spring of 1864, and it was here that her days of girlhood and young womanhood were spent. One of the first structures erected within the Fort was a school house and meeting house, constructed of logs, and which was the first school house, and in it was held the first school, in the State of Idaho. Sister Parkinson first attended school there, and in later years, after having completed LUCY DONEY PARKINSON a course at the newly established Brigham Young College at Logan, she taught school in the old log school house at Franklin. On April 14th, 1881, Sister Lucy married her girlhood sweetheart, George C. Parkinson, a son of one of the original thirteen families of Franklin. The marriage ceremony was performed at the Endowment House in Salt Lake City by Elder Daniel H. Wells, and on the same day Brother Parkinson departed for a mission to the Southern States and to England. During his absence his wife continued her school teaching at Logan. Upon his return the young couple established their home at Franklin where they remained until 1894, at which time they removed to Preston, Idaho. Prior to this time, in April, 1884, Brother Parkinson was chosen as Counselor to the President of the Oneida Stake, and on August 27th, 1887, was appointed President of the same Stake which position he held for the following twenty-five years. At Preston, President and Sister Parkinson erected one of the most beautiful homes in the State, where they reared their family of eight. All who visited this home know the sweet and gentle spirit of family love, devotion, and companionship which prevailed in it and know that the spirit of the Gospel was exemplified in their daily family life as in few other homes. Sister Parkinson was a woman of rare charm, culture and refinement, a devoted wife and mother as well as a wise and capable adviser and counselor to her husband. As a homemaker she set an enviable example to be followed by all the community about her. Until the family removed to Salt Lake City in 1912 the Parkinson home at Preston was headquarters for all the General Authorities of 385 the Church as well as the officials of the auxiliary organizations of the Church on their visits to the Idaho stake. The welcome and generous hospitality thus provided by Brother and Sister Parkinson during this period, requiring the almost continuous keeping of "open house" for large groups of Church workers and officials, was a service of love and devotion to their religion which will ever be remembered by those whose church activities called them to this North country. It was during this time that Sister Parkinson served twelve years in the Presidency of the Oneida Stake Relief Society. The early years of this period were before the advent of the automobile, when frequently it required a week or more to make a return trip to an outlying Ward or Branch by horse and buggy. Sister Parkinson and her associates in the Presidency would make these trips in good and bad weather and at times over almost impassable roads. No conference or church meeting which they were to attend was ever postponed on account of their failure to make the trip, regardless of the difficulties encountered, although on one occasion: after a particularly difficult trip in bad weather their horse died in the harness within one mile of the meeting house. They were compelled to walk into the village in order not to miss the meeting. They did their own driving, frequently having to camp in the open euroute, on which occasions they were compelled to feed and attend to their horse or horses and harness and unharness them. It was also during this period that many of the Stakes and Wards sent representatives to Salt Lake City to pursue a course of study in nursing and obstetrics under Doctor Margaret C. Roberts. Sister Parkinson 386 availed herself of this opportunity and attended these classes for a year. Upon returning to her home, in addition to her other church duties, she was called upon constantly for advice and in the giving of her personal services in this field of endeavor to the needy members of her Stake. In September, 1912, President and Sister Parkinson resigned from their Stake duties and with their family moved to Salt Lake City. Here President Parkinson passed away on July 6th, 1920. Sister Parkinson maintained the family home in Salt Lake City until her death, but the impaired condition of her health did not permit the same active participation in Church activities as during the former years in Idaho. She was able, however, to contribute largely of her time and means in a work which she greatly loved and which really was nearest her heart, —the redemption of her sacred dead. To the limit of her strength she spent her time in the Temple and employed others to assist her. It was her accomplished wish to build up a family fund so that this work might go on after her death. During her later years she suffered from a severe heart affliction, but her courage, fortitude and patience and her cheerfulness and unquestioning faith remained with her to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the end. Her noble, gentle and unselfish character shone ont brightly through all her intense suffering. Never was she heard to utter a word of complaint or despondency during her long illness. Her large family, whose homes and temporary interests were scattered in remote parts of the country, could be found frequently together at her bedside. Her last admonition to her children gathered about her deathbed was for them to faithfully live and observe the principles of the Gospel and to find joy in well doing. Sister Parkinson's children, all of whom survive her, are: George D. Parkinson, Salt Lake City; Mrs. Preston Nibley, Santa Monica, California; Major J. Leo Parkinson,. S. Army, Manila, Philippine Islands; Mrs. Richard W. Young, Jr., Berkeley, California; Major Parley D. Parkinson, U. S. Army, Salt Lake City; Mrs. W. Creed. Haymond, Salt Lake City; Mrs. O. Walter Larson, Los Angeles, California, and Mrs. Walter H. Rolapp, Los Angeles, California. At her funeral, held at the 18th Ward Chapel in Salt Lake City, President C. W. Nibley said in the course of his remarks, "I know of no one in all my acquaintance who can measure un so fully to a perfect life, in my Opinion, as this, our beloved Sister." Night By the late Margaret P. Bingham Night and faint lights quiver, Night and the day is done, Night and lights on the river, With the setting of the sun. Night and the stars are falling, Night and the children roam, Night and God still calling Scattered Israel home. Night and the wheat ungathered, Night and the tares grown strong, - Night and the storm unweathered On the mighty seat of wrong. Night and the bridegroom coming, Night and the virgins wait, Night and a herald running, Crying aloud: "Too late!" A Fine Stroke of Art By Minnie I. Hodapp S far back as the day when the poor, blind boy of Hussaker's outraged the traffic law by shoving old man Lazurlee off the river bridge the Lazurlees had been a community problem in Winopau. *Tis true that the "Jolly Stitchers" and "The Friendship League" helped them from time to time in their dire need; but in spite of the succor of these organizations, the name Lazurlee still remained a synonym for poverty, dirt, and rags. "That woman doesn't know how to manage and won't learn," was the usual comment given behind the back of the faded little woman who, like a fluttering, frightened bird, mothered the five happy-go-lucky Lazurlees. "Not a lick of pride in the whole worthless gang," was a common observation. "Half-wits, the whole outfit from Laz down to Rue," screamed Sue Simons in her garrulous way. "You ought to see Laz beat his pony over the head." In spite of these unpleasant generalizations concerning her nearest neighbor, Anne Robins resolved to be governed by her admirations rather than her disgusts, she being one of those rare souls who improve themselves today and their friends tomorrow. To her mind, the Lazurlees were outstanding as docile, non-protesting creatures of circumstance. They tolerated screens hanging half-off their hinges, doors with missing knobs, broken windows stuffed with dresses and old shirts. They permitted—aye—encouraged the muddy foot prints of puppies over their bare floors. Little pigs ran loose in their front dooryard, rooting up the garden. Their back yard, up to the very door-step was strewn with the legs of dead sheep and calves. The more Anne witnessed the filth and carelessness of her slattern neighbors, the more vigilantly did she stress tidiness on her own premises. This was apparent to the most casual observer, and the two homes side by side looked like a study in contrast. "Mamma, why can't I go over and play with little Lloyd?" asked four year old Dee. "Because Dee, we're too busy weeding our own garden," responded prudent Anne. "But Spotty keeps running over to their place," he answered in a pout. "Go and bring Spotty. We must train him to stay at home." As 'Anne bent over her pansy bed under the front windows, she was startled by a loud noise against the pane. She drew herself erect and met Dee's laughing eyes. "Tt's only little Lloyd shootin' at our window," explained Dee. "But suppose he'd have broken the pane?" "Why then, Mamma, we'd stuff up the hole with my little shirt, wouldn't we?" "Where's Spotty?' exclaimed Anne changing the subject abruptly. "T'll go and fetch him," said Dee, and he presently vanished through the hedge that divided the two homes. Half an hour later, in the gathering dusk, Dee came home riving 388 the air with his screams. He had a blackened eye, a bloody nose, and a cut lip to show for his visit. "Lloyd went and knocked me down," he cried. "Well, I told you to hurry home," responded his mother. "But you know I went to' fetch Spotty." "Tomorrow we shall tie Sse said his mother firmly. Dee closed his eyes sadly that night, mentally picturing a forlorn little doggie tied to the maple tree in the front yard. As soon as Dee was sound asleep, his mother slipped over to Mrs. Lazurlee. She meant to learn the details of Dee's bumps and bruises and nip this neighborly naughtiness in the bud. A. Faded little woman in a faded pink house-dress opened the door with, "Sakes alive, Mrs. Robins. I didn't expect seein' you here this time a night." "I don't get over very often," responded Anne quietly. "Why, land no, Mrs. Robins. This is only the second time you've entered my door, and it's four years come next May since we moved here." "Ts that right?" asked Anne. Her eyes took in the gloomy corners of the room, for the chimney of the kerosene lamp on the table was sooty. Anne tried not to seem to notice that the cane-bottom had _ been pushed out of the chair Mrs. Lazurlee offered her. Hardly had Anne seated herself when she heard groans and sobs issuing from the couch near the window. "Anybody sick, Mrs. Lazurlee?" "Not exactly,"' drawled the mother, "Lloyd was runnin' 'round the hay-stack one direction while your RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE boy was runnin' 'round t'other. The two collided and knocked heads. It loosened three or four of Lloyd's teeth was all." Anne stepped over to the couch and very gently examined Lloyd's mouth. "Dee's head is awfully hard," said Lloyd. "Tt's a shame you have to suffer for it," said Anne sympathetically. Then turning to his mother, "Shall I call a dentist?" "No need of that," spoke up Mrs. Lazurlee. '"He'll be all right in a day or two. Besides, if it's anyone's turn to see a dentist in this family it ought to be myself. It's purty nigh three years since I had all my teeth pulled out." Anne took in Mrs. Lazurlee's mouth condition almost at a glance. It seemed really pitiful. "You've waited a long-time, Mrs. Lazurlee." "T'll say 'so," she sing-songed. "T've come nigh to bruisin' my patience. The trouble is, I can't rake up enough coin to get a set of teeth." "There's a free dental clinic," suggested 'Anne. "Free!" ejaculated Mrs, Lazurlee. "Ves, Mrs. Lazurlee, without charge. May I call up Dr. Daynes and make the arrangement?" "Sakes alive, be ye goin' to see about me gettin' false teeth, and fer nothin'?" "I'm sure it can be: arranged, Mrs. Lazurlee," explained Anne quietly. "OQ Honey, now yer just tellin' me things,' beamed Mrs. Lazurlee. "May I make arrangements with Dr. Daynes?" asked Anne. "Yes, Honey, go ahead, Honey." Lloyd stopped groaning and sat up in bed. A FINE STROKE OF ART "What you dancin' around so for, Ma, and laughin' and clappin' your hands?" "Sakes alive, Lloyd, I'm goin' ter have new teeth." II THE new and uncommonly beautiful smile worn by Mrs. Lazurlee amply repaid the dental clinic for their free and generous service. "Her mouth is so full of teeth she can hardly talk," said Dee. "But, Mamma, why does she squint her eyes so funny?" "She needs glasses, Dee, and soon she'll have them," explained his Mamma. "Dr. Neff is working on her case right now." "And as soon as she gets glasses, Mamma, what then?" "Why, then she's goin' to do plain sewin' for folks that need her. She's real handy. [And that reminds me, Dee, you may take these flour-sacks over for her to hem. Tell her I want to 'be the first on her sewing list." "Tt's a big load of sewin' I'm bringin' you," exclaimed little Dee as he entered the Lazurlee door. In the middle of the room he paused dead-still to gaze and wonder. Two men were carrying off the sewing machine right in front of Mrs. Lazurlee's eyes. "Tl sic Spotty onto them, Mrs. Lazurlee, if you'll let me. Why are they taking away your sewing machine? Now you can't hem towels for my Mamma." But before the men had loaded the machine into the truck, Mrs. Robins was at the gate making gentle entreaty for the little woman in the faded pink dress. "If it's only seven dollars she lacks on the machine I believe I can take care of that," said Anne. "You had better leave the machine, gentlemen; I'll go and write a check 389 for that amount." Quiet Mrs. Robins soon returned with a little pink slip that meant so much to Mrs. Lazurlee. "How can I ever repay you, Honey? Oh, I wish I could this very day, this very minute." "Well, perhaps you can." Mrs. Lazurlee's face brightened. "What you mean to say, Honey." "Would you be willing to part with some of the worn-out farm machinery back of your house?" "You mean the broken-down mower and that rusty plough?" "Yes, and those wagon wheels and the dilapidated cook-stove," finished Anne. "You kin have 'em and welcome." "T'd also like those pans and kettles and grates and pails and lids and stove 'pipes gathered finto a heap. May I?" "Welcome! And there's an old copper boiler, burnt out at the bottom and smashed in at the sides. You can have that into the bargain." "Very well," responded Anne. "Can you get all these smaller things gathered together by three o'clock?" "We'll do our darndest," said the little mother jenthusiastically. Such raking, 'such [picking mp, such gathering of bones and rags and bottles and tins as went on in that yard during the forenoon? Every scrap of rubbish was piled onto an old bed spring, according to Mrs. Robin's judicious orders. Promptly at three p. M. The junkman came all smiles. What precious haul it was for him! He not -only cleared the scrap-heap, but he supplied rubbish-cans for future needs—wise and enterprising junkman. One wonders if Anne Robins had not dropped him a hint in her ever-so-tactful manner. As the junk-man drove off, the 390 youngest of the Lazurlees was heard to exclaim, "Gee! Don't our back yard look lonesome?" "Ts that all the pay you want, Honey?" asked gleeful Mrs. Lazurlee. "Only one thing more," replied Anne. "I hate to be imposing, but would Laz be good enough to paint the roof of my garage?" "Oh, boy! Bet your sweet life I will," replied Laz, with alacrity of heart as well as lips. Early next morning Laz was seen on top of the Robins' garage eagerly engaged in his new task. The paint brush in his hand was the magic wand that stirred the boy's latent talent of handicraft. Amateur though he was, Laz took a pride in his work; and during that forenoon, a budding young artisan was born, as aspirations are born into this hustling, busy world of ours. "T only wish that job could last, said he as he added the finishing touches to the roof at mid-afternoon. "Why not apply to Dr. Dewy across the river?' suggested Anne. "T've heard him say that his entire garage needs going over. You might go and ask him about it. Tell him you've had experience on one roof at least." So Laz hastened off toward the Dewy place. Nearing the river he was startled 'by a shrill shriek that came from amid the wild-roses and 3? Willows. Laz bounded into the inclosure. "Catch me, oh catch me," screamed a pleading voice. On the middle of a narrow plank that bridged the stream at its deepest, stood an old, old lady frantic with fear. | Laz ran toward the frail little lady, picked her up in his arms, and carried her trembling body safeRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ly to the other side of the river. "You've saved my life," repeated she. "Right in the middle of the plank I took a dizzy spell. Another moment and I should have lost my balance." "T'm glad I happened along before you tumbled in," said Laz laughingly. "You've saved my life, repeated wee Grandma Willis in all seriousness, placing her thin, wrinkled hand in Laz's big brown one. "Now name your reward." "Reward, you say?" and Laz's cheeks reddened more with pleasurable excitement. He did not move a finger, but sat open-mouthed, open-eyed, staring at the calmly flowing waters. When at length he made as if to speak, words failed him. "Tell me what you'd like better than anything in the world," entreated the wee Grandmother. "Waal," said Laz in drawling phrase, "I could tell you this very minute, but I can't calculate it out. I'm kinda slow on figures and I can't say." Grandma Willis began to look alarmed. "Calculate what?' asked she. This strangely untalkative youth was a puzzle to her. "Wall," drawled Laz, "will you furnish me enough paint to cover the outside of our house? That's the biggest reward I can name." "Tt's granted," said wee Grandma Willis in relieved and happy tone. "Come, take me to your home, let me have a good look at the house and I'll calculate the cost." Anxious to fulfill her agreement to the letter, Grandma Willis called Anne Robins to her aid. Anne was quite experienced and gave exact caluculation for the amount of paint needed for walls, cornice, and roof. "I'm glad their foundation is so A FINE STROKE OF ART fine and strong," observed Grandma Willis. "It won't seem like wasting money to improve such a_ place. Come, Anne, will you 'phone to the paint company? I should like to see this boy Laz start on his project this very week." With her usual dispatch Anne attended promptly to the request of Grandma Willis. Laz decided upon gray with white borders, 'Just like your house, Mrs. Robins," said the boy. Within a week Anne heard the neighbors commenting on "'that enterprising Lazurlee lad undertaking to paint his mother's house." By the end of the week their admiration had increased tenfold, for the finished product quite outran their expectations. ' a "Mamma, their house looks exactly like ours," remarked little Dee. When the outside of the house was finished, Laz with a remnant of white paint, began on the shelves in the kitchen. When Grandma Willis heard of his zeal, she generously supplied enough paint to do the entire kitchen and enough varnish for the chairs. "Gee, it smells clean over to Lazurlee's," said' Dee after one of his excursions over to "fetch" Spotty. "And they won't let any little dog in their house, not even Spotty, to mark up the floors. And their windows—not a fly-speck on 'em now. Laz won't stand fer it. I heard him tellin' Lloyd to keep his sticky hand off the window or it might get slapped. And I heard a secret too, from Rue," jfinished Dee in triumph. I "Ts that so? Whoever told Rue a secret?" whispered his Mamma. "Wee Grandma Willis," whispered Dee into his mother's ear. "Well then it must be a first-rate secret if Grandma Willis told it." 391 "Fire! Fire!" screamed a boy in the' streets. Anne looked out of the window. The Lazurlee kitchen roof in flames. "Mercy on us," screamed Anne Robins bounding into the street. "T've already 'phoned for the fire department," said Sue Simons. Laz, on the roof, was working like a hero, his distress was as plain as circus-print. Men and women waited impatiently for the fire department. A thrill of joy went through the throng as it neared. A few minutes of skillful work with the great hose until the flames were extinguished and the excitement 'subsided. The slowly-dispersing crowd left Grandma Willis standing alone on the sidewalk gazing upward at Laz on the roof. Anne ran to her with outstretched arms. The frail little body was trembling from head to foot. "Oh, Anne, I'm glad—so glad that house didn't go up in flames. It's going to be my home in a few weeks." "Your home!" said Anne in mild surprise. "I can't quite understand. "T mean I'm tired boarding at the hotel, and I intend changing my residence into a family of folk who need me." "But Grandma, this move is quite unexpected in you. Do you believe you can learn to tolerate the many irregularities of a family like the Lazurlees?" "Irregularities!? M hungry for 'em! Sick of cut-and-dried routine; tired to death of thus-and-so; cravin' change and chaos," and _ she laughed the blithe, silver laughter of. A girl. "And you've really made up your mind?" "Yes, I've made up my mind. My fifty dollars per month may as well 392 go to the ultra-needy as to the wealthy. Besides—in those cheery, patient little Lazurlee kiddies I may find support—something to love, to lean upon, to clasp affection's tendrils 'round!" That afternoon Sue Simons came with "news" to Anne Robins. "Do you know the latest, Anne?" "About what?" asked prudent Anne. "Grandma Willis. That loftythinking old soul has made up her mind to move in with that Lazurlee tribe," and she shrugged her shoulders in contempt. "A jewel of a woman," prudent Anne. "A jewel out of her proper setting when she'll link up with that outfit." Anne mused thoughtfully 'ere she replied: "Grandma Willis is, as you say, a rare soul. She's developed a lot of tolerance with the years. Her knowledge of human nature, her sympathy, her love of art— these things will help out." "But, Anne, Anne," shrieked Sue. "Them Lazurlees—a hiss and a byword! You know as well as I do. A hiss and a by-word!" and Sue fairly writhed in disgust. "May I remind you," ever so gently rejoined Anne in her softest whisper, "of One who said, 'The whole need not a physician but they that are sick'." A faint tap at the door. A moment more and wee Grandma observed Willis stood before them. A note~ of triumph was in her tone as she said, "Well, Anne, I've moved. We're neighbors now, for good." Sue Simons gaspel in astonishment, but said not a word. "And now, Anne, dear," continued Grandma, "Won't you come over and help me hang my pictures?"; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "May I come, too?" asked Sue Simons meekly. 'With the aid of these two willing women, Grandma's fine art-treasures were hung to advantage. "The Dance of the Nymphs" over the mantle, "The Children of the Shell" near the window, and the lovely "Sistine Madonna" over the bed. Grandma reserved her cherished "Apple Blossoms" for her dresser. Grain fields and Mt. Timpanogos by Utah artists were placed in the dining room. "And what about this fine picture by Hoffman?" asked Sue innocently. "Where does it go?" "Why, that one is for Laz's room," directed Grandma. 'He'll take more joy in it than all of us put together." At this point Anne es herself and hurried home. She soon returned rosy and breathless, bearing a beautiful fern for Grandma's room. Its delicate presence brought comfort and delight. Sue Simons, not to be outdone by Anne, ran home and returned drawing a little express wagon filled with red-blooming geraniums for Grandma's front window. The entire neighborhood caught the spirit of these good women, and many a pleasant engagement with Grandma Willis was arranged. "You simply must let me lend you my wicker-rocker," said Mrs. Tarbell. "And please, oh, please let me hang my large mirror in your room for this winter," begged Jane Henri. Mrs. Pearson, the blind weaver, sent a gift of small rugs to protect Grandma Willis' finer rug. But the biggest surprise of all was when Mr. Stowe installed electric lights in the Lazurlee home and had the house insured against fire. A FINE STROKE OF ART "You're worth it a thousand times over, Grandma Willis," said Mr. Stowe. "Besides, it's only a slight return for all the kindness you've heaped upon me. I've been awaiting my opportunity, but as long as you remained in the hotel your wants seemed supplied." "?*Tis sweet to be remembered," beamed Grandma cordially. To the little Lazurlees clustering near, Mr. Stowe said, "You'd better be good kiddies to wee Grandma Willis. She deserves to have her pathway bloom with roses." "That's what I tell 'em,"' spoke up their mother. (She was alert to Grandma's every wish.) How systematically she went over her entire house, rubbing it down and polishing it up, until it became veritably a house of smiles. Even the most hurried passer-by seemed to admire the geraniums through the bright windows. To the little Lazurlees the routine of life became an attractive allabsorbing lesson. They took pains to brush their teeth, clean their finger nails, polish their shoes. Even their hair, through unremitting care, took on a silken luster pleasing to the touch. They closed doors without banging, and softened their voices into almost musical tones. Good Fortune smiled upon Laz in the shape of an apprentice job with the Jamison Paper Company. In addition to being taught and trained in handicraft he was promised a small, steadily-rising wage. "He's a different boy," said Sue Simons. "More considerate and kind." 393 "T believe he's been reading and thinking along good lines," observed Anne Robins. "Likely so,' answered Sue. "I noticed after Grandma Willis got through readin' that book on kindness to animals he quit beatin' his horse over the head." 'Anne laughed softly to herself as she pondered on Sue's various sympathetic reactions. "IT wonder what she'll find out next?" quoth Anne to herself. And sure enough within a brief interval Sue came again. This time it was her choicest morsel, and she related it with an unusual touch of insight. "Heard the latest, Anne? It's about one of your own cherished little Lazurlees, and I've got it straight. Last Sunday, Sadie Snow, in speaking to her Sunday School class, put this question: 'How many of you children want to go to heaven?' Every one but Rue and Lloyd held up their hands." "Don't you want to go to heaven?' asked Miss Snow." "Lloyd spoke up, 'No, Miss Snow, we don't want to go to heaven 'cause Grandma Willis has come to live with us; and she's hung up pictures and put down rugs and fixed curtains and put flowers in the window. Laz has a job and Mamma is writin' down the school census. And Grandma Willis is tellin' us stories each night in her warm, snug room. No, Miss Snow, we don't want to go to heaven, not for a long, long d99 time'. Father teach me to stand alone, Not in the strength of futile pride But with a confidence serene Thy unseen hand will be my guide. Ann Rushen Keys Paxman By Alice P. McCune NN RUSHEN KEYS, the A eldest daughter and the second child of Yoseph and Mary Rushen Keys, was born September 11, 1830, at Little Baddow, Essex County, England. Her parents were devoted and kind, but because of their meager income, Ann, when ten years of age, started living away from home to earn her board. Her first work was that of tending two small children. She remained at this place for one year, She was allowed a visit home, after an absence of three months, which renewed memories of home and mother. Upon her return to her duties a spell of homesickness seized her. She ran home to receive comfort, only to be returned by her father, who thoroughly believed that one's word is one's honor. This incident helped Ann to cultivate a determination to stick to and master whatever came into her life. When she changed her place of employment, she received, in addition to her board, six cents per week and felt rich as a queen. She continued living away from home, going from place to place, her wage being gradually increased until at the age of twenty-three she received her board and eight pounds or $40.00 a year. Often a yearning for home came into her soul but circumstances forbade any long visit with her kindred; thus she was compelled to receive training and development from those with whom she lived and associated. Her scholastic education consisted of six weeks in the school room, yet she developed a liking for knowledge and through her determination she learned to read and write and spent many of the lonely hours in later life reading good books and articles of interest. Although Father and Mother Keys were of a spiritual nature, desiring to live lives of saints, and were good church members, the gospel message, when first brought to their door by Elder Charles W. Penrose, did not fall upon their ears as sweet music, but the truth and fulness thereof came'to them gradually. Mother Keys, at the first sound of it, shook her finger in the face of Elder Penrose and said, "False Prophet"; however, she was the first of the family to accept it. As her soul became permeated with the spirit of the gospel, she used her influence with the other members of the family. That, along with the elders' visits and the searching for enlightenment was the cause of Father Keys and four children accepting the gospel;: Ann Rushen being one of the favored number. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on September 13, 1851, by John Holland, a local elder of England. At the age of twenty-three, Ann Rushen accepted a position with a family in London. These people were prejudiced against "Mormonism," which made it very necessary for Ann to guard her words and actions lest she be discharged; however, she was daring enough to seek opportunities to attend L. D. S. Meetings, where she could meet with those of her own faith. Ann purchased the Millennial Star when opportunity permitted. In buying the Star from the agent, William Paxman, a convert to "Mormonism," she became acquainted with him. She was very happy to have formed ANN RUSHEN KEYS PAXMAN this friendship but more pleased when the friendship turned to courtship. They courted for a time and then there came a day when the song of the bird was sweeter, the perfume of the flowers more fragrant, and the blue of the sky, the rays of the moon, the twinkle of the stars had more charm for her; in fact, the whole world had changed for there came into her routine life a bit of romance; she found that she loved and was loved by one who to her was perfect. Their courtship continued until March 3, 1855, when they were united in marriage at Christ's Church, London. William invited Brother Penrose, who was a close friend, to eat their wedding dinner with them, which consisted of bread, butter, and red herring. Their union was a happy one, for both had the same faith, desires, aspirations, and ambitions. The same traits of thrift, determination, farsightedness, honor and love for God being implanted within them, they became one in thought, in soul, in spirit. They remained in London until the first of May, 1856, when they went to Liverpool preparatory for their departure to Zion. A\lthough Ann was in delicate health, they set sail on Sunday, May 25, 1856, on the ship "Horizon." Their voyage was not an anticipated pleasure trip. As their means were scarce, they were obliged to take steerage passage, the passengers were expected to cook and prepare their own food, with the exception of seabiscuits which were furnished by the shipping company. 'These biscuits were a round flat cake about four inches in diameter, so hard they could not be cut and hardly broken. William was seasick the whole of the voyage, thus making it doubly hard for Ann.. When she was a girl there was a 395 great delicacy, even a secrecy, with the older people in keeping from the young all knowledge of the problems of life or the responsibilities which come with wifehood and motherhood; consequently, she was illy prepared for the experiences which awaited her. They had traveled a few days over half their voyage when on June 13, 1856, a boy, weighing only three and one-half pounds, was born to them, and was named William Reid Horizon. The doctor's assistance was not given gratis on ship, and owing to scarcity of means, Ann was obliged to be content with the help of a lady passenger who was wholly ignorant of the needs and requirements of such an occasion; consequently, the mother was badly injured. Immediately upon the arrival of the little one, the young mother was left alone—a Sister Till washing and dressing the baby for many days. Through lack of care, Ann was very ill and but for the kindness of the captain her life would have been despaired of. He became aware of the birth of the baby and hearing how small it was, went to see it. Upon finding the young mother in an unnatural state of health, he ordered the doctor to visit her and also had her food sent from the cabin. Yet she was left ina precarious condition and was unable for several! Months to sit in a correct posture or take ease in her household work. The remainder of the voyage was endured, not enjoyed. Needless to say, the seasick husband, the weary wife, with nerves shattered and health broken, were happy to see land when they arrived in Hoston on July 3, 1856, having been five weeks and three days at sea. After they had established themselves in Boston, he was fortunate in securing work as clerk in a store. While there he learned the trade of 396 soldering, or tinkering. They remained in Boston for five years. While there, two other choice spirits were intrusted to their keeping—a boy named Edgar Moroni and a girl named Emma Tryphenia. When the Civil War broke out in 1861, all the elders in the Eastern States were called home and_ the Saints advised to migrate to Utah. Although 'Ann had three small children, almost babies, to care for, and an unborn life to consider, she and her husband complied with counsel and left Boston in the early part of June, going to Florence, Nebraska by railroad, a journey of two weeks. They remained there two weeks longer waiting for teams to arrive with which to continue their travels. The last of June they started across those desert wastes with ox teams, under Captain Joseph Horn. They were two and one-half months on the way. He walked all the distance while she had the privilege of riding because of her physical inabilities, but little did she ride because of the extremely bad roads and her fright. She walked many miles, carrying one and often two children to rest them and to hush their cries caused by the hot sands burning their little feet and 'by thirst. She herself suffered much with the heat during those hot July and August days, longing for water of which there was a scarcity, walking on and on until, when evening spread its shadows over the camp, she would be footsore and weary almost to the breaking point; but her courageous spirit would say, "Carry on, Ann, carry on." And she did carry on to the end of the journey, trusting always in her Creator. They were visited often by the Indians, and were ever fearful lest they would drive away their cattle or steal their children. They'd ask RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for money of which the Saints had none, but Captain Horn would try to satisfy them by exchanging flour and bacon for blankets and skins of various kinds. Their flour and bacon were proportioned out to them; adults re ceived full allowance and children half. Ann's children, being small,. Didn't eat their full share; hence their parents did not suffer for food. Before leaving Boston, with foresight and thrift, Ann made a supply of yeast cakes to take on the journey. Notwithstanding the strenuous, hard days, in the evening before retiring she would mix her bread, place it on the foot of the bed over night and in the morning have delicious yeast dough flapjacks for breakfast, making enough for the day. She was the only woman to her knowledge who had yeast bread during the journey. What joy was hers in often dividing it with her comrade travelers! Ys PING: in Salt Lake City on September 13, 1861, with winter approaching and no belongings except a few clothes, bedding, bake skillet, etc., they were given the use of a little old rickety shack located where the Walker Dry Goods Store now stands, going into it after staying three days with John Sullivan and family, a former Bostonian friend. William Paxman received for his first work in Utah one quart of molasses. Brother Webb gave them a little flour. That was their start in Zion. He went almost immediately in search of work, obtaining some in Sessions settlement (now Farmington). Returning about the 26th of October, he found his wife with a baby boy born on October 12, 1861, just four weeks after landing in Salt Lake City. This baby was named James Walter, and was-pdid for with two gal- ANN RUSHEN KEYS PAXMAN lons of molasses. The midwife made no visits after the birth of the baby, so Ann and the little family were dependent upon the neighbors for assistance. One lady would go in each morning to care for her and the baby, while another, not a member of the Church, whose husband opposed her doing anything for a "Mormon," would run in with something nice to eat, under her apron. The Indians would come to the house, look at the mother, laugh, talk, and make gestures at the children. Her heart would almost stand still for fear they would carry her children away. Because of the unhealthful condition of the shack they were in, they moved into the 19th Ward in December of the same year in order to have a warmer house for the winter. Their conditions were a trifle improved, but they had not much comfort. The following February, William walked through the snow all the way to American Fork to look around for a permanent location to establish a home. He was away two weeks. He had arranged with a party to take his wife some flour, but he failed to do so. There was no food in the home excepting carrots and no means with which to purchase more, so she and her children lived upon carrots the whole of two weeks. Upon the father's return, they decided to move to American Fork. As there was an ox team going that way and a chance for them to go with it, they hurriedly made preparations and were soon on their way. Upon their arrival, Ann was not pleasantly surprised in seeing her new abiding place. It was a little hovel of a dugout about eight by eight feet, dirt walls and floor, no windows, a door frame, but no door (one was, however, given them by 397 a neighbor), a willow roof covered with dirt which leaked when it stormed, so much so that they were obliged to hold umbrellas over them. Their bed was straw upon the floor, a box was their table. Under these conditions she gave way. Her pride wounded, and in anguish of spirit she said, "ey didn't think I was coming to Zion to be littered down like a pig," but she endured and managed _ in some inconceivable way for one year when they moved into another dugout so much improved they felt they had almost reached heaven. The mother took pride in keeping this home spotlessly clean. Dishes were scarce, so she shined tin cans until they could almost be used for mirrors, using them for cups, spoon tray, molasses jug, vases, etc. It was here they began to accumulate and save with a desire to add to and have comforts in the home, but difficulties continued to come to them. The year 1864 was a perilous one. But for the help of Providence, the people would have starved. The grasshoppers destroyed all their wheat, and then began taking the weeds, which the people used for greens, and about the only thing left from which they could get nourishment. The following year, 1865, the' father, mother, and children were obliged to glean wheat in order to have bread to eat. The children's gleanings were given to the Relief Society to sustain the poor, while the father and mother gleaned enough for themselves to give them a fair amount of flour for the winter by using sparingly. On the 25th of April, 1863, a boy was born to them, named George Francis, and on February 16, 1865, a girl was born, named Esther Elizabeth. On May 2, 1867, another girl, named Martha Eleanor, was born. In the year 1866, William Pax- 398 man was the means of having built an up-to-date molasses mill. This mill was built of adobes from ground close by the home. After its completion it appeared so comfortable that the family moved into it while a home was built' over the dugout which had been occupied by them, and which consisted of three rooms downstairs and two upstairs, with a small closet. So anxious was the mother to have a real home that there was no hesitation on her part in carrying adobes, mud and rock to help make the improvement. The home was later added to until it consisted of nine rooms and a large summer kitchen. The first stove owned by her, a small, ordinary iron Charter Oak stove with four lids, which had been hauled across the plains in wagons, was put into the new home at a cost of $125.00. The new home was entered with hearts filled with joy and gratitude to God for blessing them so abundantly. Together they worked improving the grounds by hauling away rocks, of which there were loads, planting fruit trees, grape arbors, bushes, shade trees, lawns, and flowers. The home became a veritable resting place. They not only labored themselves, but their children were, in their early youth, taught the value of thrift, industry and cooperation, and were given their tasks to keep them employed and out of mischief. The mother gave her children work time and play time, but not idle moments. James and George were set to work clearing rocks from the ground, on one occasion, but after they thought their task completed, she found some excuse to have them move their pile from one place to another. And the boys, full of indignation, pouting and mumbling that they didn't see why rocks had to grow, and that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE they wished they'd never seen a rock, saw the one pile gradually diminish while the other grew taller and taller as the hours slowly rolled by. Four children were born in the new home—on March 26, 1869, Joseph Hyrum; September 16, 1870, Alice Ann; July 4, 1872, Edwin Washington; and on August 9, 1875, her last child, Albert Reynolds, was born. The molasses mill was set running after they moved into the new home, and operated many years. Oh, the fun it brought to the boys and girls—swimming and wading in the old mill stream and running into the big wheel to get it spinning! On one of these occasions, terror seized Joe when his shirt caught on a nail and he found himself hanging from the top of the wheel like a circus performer. And the boys teasingly kept him dangling until his mother, hearing the screams of her boy, ran to the rescue. Many are the happy memories of chewing sugar cane, of "skimmins" candy pulls, and the joy of carrying the pulled and twisted candy sticks to treat their friends. In November, 1875, William Paxman accepted a call to fulfill a mission to his native land, where he labored for two years. His wife was left with eleven children under her care and guidance, the oldest nineteen years, the baby eight months. The father had procured about thirty acres of farm land upon which the boys worked; the mother and the older girls dried fruit. These, with the molasses mill, gave the family a fair living during the father's absence. Notwithstanding the large family to feed and clothe, tithing was paid in full each year. Ann not only had her children to care for, but in August, 1876, her father immigrated to Utah, and lived with her until his ANN RUSHEN KEYS PAXMAN demise in May, 1877. And in 1878, her husband's sisters, Martha, who was deaf and dumb, and Esther, with her husband, Henry Cullum, and three children, emigrated from England and went to Ann's home where they remained until the latter part of 1879, when Esther died at childbirth, leaving a frail infant baby in Ann's care. It lived only six weeks. When the Sunday Schools of that section met yearly in American Fork in their Sunday School jubilee, William Paxman, being Sunday School superintendent, would bring thirty or more visitors home to dinner. Ann cooked and prepared days ahead in order to have everything in readiness and served a real banquet upon these occasions. It was they, too, who first entertained the old folks. In the years 73 and '74, they had all the aged of the town at the home to a banquet at noon, entertained them during the afternoon, and ended by serving fruit and mild grape wine (made by Ann). The poorest of them carried lunches home. James and Ann Paxman thus set a pattern for the old folks' parties now given throughout the Church.* Then, the town choir of thirty members was invited in for chicken supper and an evening's entertainment on the same date. A truly interested mother is always made happy when her children desire to live their life to the fullest, yet there is a pang of sadness when the children marry and leave the home. Ann's oldest son William was the first to leave the family nest. In January, 1879, he married Urilda Moody in the St. George Temple: Traveling with teams, William was fourteen days *Annual Old Folks' Excursions began May 14, 1875, when 250 aged people had an excursion at Dr. Clinton's Hotel. 399 on the way down, but he was so anxious ot see home and mother that he made the return journey in eight days. The next year, 1880, Emma, who had assumed so many of the home duties, the one upon whom the mother had relied, caused a vacanacy in the home hard to fill when she married Joseph Miller. Like most women of those times, with few doctors and no trained nurses, Ann had her problems and anxieties with illnesses which come in the rearing of large families. Perhaps the most trying anxiety of this kind came when her boy, Edgar Moroni, was critically injured in 'American Fork Canyon in May, 1882. His skull was badly fractured, he lay unconscious for many hours and all hope for his recovery was banished by the doctor. He lay for weeks with ice packs on his head and was confined to his room under anxious care for one and one-half months. So great was his injury and so intense his suffering that he could stand no one to enter the room wearing shoes, nor could he endure the bedding touched. He, with his parents, relied upon the Priesthood for his recovery and he was wholly restored. The grateful mother always gave her Maker praise and felt that Edgar was a monument of God's mercy. When in 1883 William Paxman was called to preside over the Juab Stake of Zion, it was necessary to move to Nephi. Parting from the old homestead, giving up what had. Become almost a part of her, leaving friends tried and true, having only the memories of those yesterdays, going among strangers, forming new friendships, making a new home and assuming new duties, was one of Ann's severest trials. But loyal as always to her calling as helpmate, she made preparations and in May of that year she bade 400 goodbye to everything there, dear to her. Earlier in life she suffered the trial of becoming partially deaf, which made it doubly hard for her to go among strangers. At the time of moving, and for some time after, she was not in good health. Feeling that his position as president of the stake caused all eyes to be upon his family, William was very strict, or at least more strict than the children thought necessary. They were expected to be in at ten o'clock no matter what the occasion, with the exception of a dance, then twelve sharp. The mother stood with the father in his requests, yet she was full of sympathy and understanding, occasionally helping the girls out of their difficulties. Alice fully appreciated this understanding in her mother when after a surprise party she was a few minutes late getting home. The squeaking door hinges awakened her father and she was chided for coming in after ten. Next morning she said in disgust to her mother, "If the door didn't squeak, I could get in sometimes without father hearing,' and to her surprise, she received the answer, "Take the oil can and grease it, my girl, grease it." And not many moments elapsed before she did grease it! Ann's severest trial by death was the passing of her husband on October 12, 1897. His death was the result of internal injuries and a broken leg which he sustained when a scaffold gave way while he was shingling the old home at American Fork. His wife attended him through his illness and death. His remains were taken to the home at Nephi, and laid away in the Vine Bluff cemetery there. 'Albert, a young man of twentytwo years at the time of his father's death, was the only child left at home. He nobly assumed the reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sponsibilities of companion, comforter, and burden bearer, foregoing many pleasures that the solitude and quiet of the long, lonely hours for his mother might be dispelled. Kind and patient, full of consideration, he became her confidant, and rock of strength to lean upon. He married Margaret Jenkins in June of the following year, and they lived with his mother. His devoted attentions were not diminished, but he and Margaret were united in working for their mother's comfort, carrying many responsibilities which otherwise would have fallen upon the rest of the family, most of whom lived away from Nephi. After occupying the home with Albert and his family for two years, Ann took two rooms and kept house for herself. Through these years, she suffered very severe illnesses, caused through hardening of arteries and irregular heart, and she needed much watchful care. Albert and Margaret, patient and loving, were never slack in administering to her wants. When eleven children were at home many times unexpected company dropped in to dine, and ofttimes there was little more than just enough food prepared for the family. It was then that some of the children were sure to ask for a second helping, when the food should be reserved for the "company." But Emma, at her post between the younger children, never forgot to give a gentle (?) kick at their feet or pinch their legs to remind them that "little children. Should be seen, but not heard." Not only were those who came to the home treated kindly, but often the children would carry lunches to the sick, baskets of food to the needy and fruit, vegetables, clothing and bedding to the poor immigrants who had come to ANN RUSHEN KEYS PAXMAN Utah and had not yet found employment. When the boys of Nephi were called to Camp Lewis to train for the World War, Ann Paxman procured their names and ordered the Christmas News sent to each one. Tew women eighty-six years old would be so thoughtful. She was one of those big-hearted, unassuming souls who never let her left hand know what the right hand did and none knew of her kindness excepting those to whom she was a benefactor. When in 1917 Albert and his family moved to Kanab, his mother went to live with her oldest daughter Emma, at American Fork. This was another sad seperation for her, for she had become much attached 401 to her Nephi home, but no less kindly was she considered by Emma and her family in their home. Soon after her going there, her health gradually failed and in the late part of 1918, she was confined to her bed. Life gradually waned and as the light of a beautiful April morning spread its glorious rays over the universe, at six a. M., April 10, 1919, at the age of eighty-eight years 'and seven ' months, she passed away. The dawn of a more glorious life began for the faithful woman who had passed from this school of experience into a higher school of learning with honors, to again enjoy the companionship of her beloved husband and children there and to go on and on to perfection. Utah By Anna Rosdahl Fairest State of the West, our Utah so blest With valleys so fertile in mountainous nest;— With its pure mountain air, its sunshine and rain, Its fields of alfalfa and rich waving grain; With its orchards and gardens, its meadows of green,— And its rich varied crops—what a bounteous scene! So happy and blest in the prosperous West,— Why shouldn't we have our own Utah the best! Our Utah, the desert the pioneers chose— Behold, how it flourishes, blooms as the rose! It has yielded to struggle, ambition and toil Of the brave who redeemed and who conquered the soil. They then never knew the vast treasures in store— The oil wells and coal mines, the mountains of ore;, Tis a land of resources, our State in the West,— Why shouldn't we love our own Utah the best! This bleak, barren waste, which our fathers possessed, Transformed to an Eden, a land God has blest: With its valleys and streams, with its mountains and hills, Its farms and its dairies, its factories and mills;— For bounteous production, far known is its name,— While its schools and its learning make fair its fame: *Tis a good place to live out here in the West, Why shouldn't we love our own Utah the best! Thy climate fair Utah, surpasses all lands, Thy beauty majestic—unrivaled it stands, Thy deep, rugged canyons, thy mountains that rise, And vaunt their proud grandeur against the blue skies, Devastation and storms, tho they rage from afar,— With barriers surrounded, protected we are:— So sheltered, so blest, aye—above all the rest, We love thee, dear Utah, choice land of the West. Emma Clouchek By Cora Carver Ritchie HE backbone of frontier cities and new states has always been the brave women who have pioneered them. Idaho is still new. Her women are still pioneering. Among the dozens of prominent women who Emma CLOUCHEK have done big things in a big way in Idaho, Emma Clouchek stands out eminently. In many ways she is a true pioneer for she has been the founder of new movements, civic, social and political. Her grandfather Rull Olds and his family crossed the plains in 1844, with the second caravan that went to Oregon. The family settled on a donation claim, which consisted of 320 acres of virgin soil free to the couples who would cultivate it. Among the precious relics Mrs. Clouchek treasures is a deed written ' by her grandfather describing that claim. The boundaries were designated by a certain tree on one corner and by a peculiar rock on the other. Nelson Olds who was eight years old when his father crossed the plains also lived on this claim. He married Phebe Livengood. They had a large family, Emma being the fourth child. The children were all raised and educated in Oregon. Speaking of Emma her sister said, "We have always looked to her for everything and we still do." After teaching school several years, Emma married Dr. Henry Walker Clouchek. They moved to Twin Falls, Idaho in 1904, and have since made their home there, giving freely of both time and money to help build up this community. The doctor has always been a lover of children. In his quiet way he has won the hearts of all who know him. No one will ever know how many unfortunate lads have been completely fitted out from head to toe with a new set of wearing apparel with arms full of extras by him. He is the news boys' friend. Even before charitable organizations were working as they do today, Mrs. Clouchek did follow up work for her husband. If there was no other way to help a needy family, she made over her own clothes and did the actual work in the homes of EMMA CLOUCHEK the sick. Many families have been started back on the road to seli-confidence and self-support through the generous, capable aid of Mrs. Clouchek. -Club and served twice a8 president. She was the first president of the Ladies' Aid, first secretary of the first club in Twin Falls, has been president of District Federation of Woman's Clubs and has served as chairman of every committee in the state and district work. Kor four years she conducted s0- cial service lessons for mothers in connection with P. T. A. Work. She has been county and state chairman of the Woman's Republican Club and vice president for the State Club. For eight years she has worked on the woman's committee for the fair —three years on committees and five years as superintendent of all departments pertaining to woman's work. When she first took over the fair work, the women were allowed" one little corner in one building. Today they occupy three large buildings and parts of a fourth. The most helpful unit she has organized is the Social Hall unit, which is used for boys' and girls' and women's demonstration plans, club work, etc. It is the social center of the fair a place where everything can be planned and adjusted. Mrs. Clouchek built a rack to display towels, etc., that has been copied by many other fairs becatise of its utility and simplicity. She also built the up-to-date kitchen and pantry in the woman's building. She has a scheme this year whereby she can double the gate receipts, if the. Men will vision her plan in time. 403 Mrs. Clouchek was elected to the state legislature as representative from Twin Falls county in 1930. In the short time she has worked in the House in Boise, she has proven her ability to think clearly and act quickly. A representative from another county said, "When Mrs. Clouchek takes the floor the men listen. She talks only when she has something to say and she says st so emphatically there is no room left for doubt." She is mild, sweet and courteous and has a merry twinkle in het black eyes; she loves @ good story OF joke. To win her point she will fight just as hard and the blows will be just as effective as were those of her father or grandfather in their many battles with the Indians. She is frank and unafraid to speak her mind. For instance when telling one of her nephews about the evils of tobacco she was asked, "How about the women >" Her eyes flashed as she replied, "Women are making fools of themselves when they smoke, it is filthy and disgusting." In discussing women and the ballot she said, "Women are losing an using the ballot as they should. Home and public affairs should be combined. A mother must be alert and keep up. This is vital for the woman rearing children as legislation is looking forward to the coming generation that mothers are now educating." She claims the biggest need in Idaho's educational system is the care of the under privileged child. The schools should be made to meet the needs of the mentally deficient. Representative Clouchek introduced several new bills in the house. One she is much snterested in is the free vaccine bill, which provides for free vaccine and anti-toxin for all contagious diseases. 404 Another important bill is for the care of the tubercular cases. This bill is preventative, educational, and curative in its scope. She is chairman of the Public RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Health committee, is a member of the Library Committee, and is on the Forestry and Municipalities Committee. Her advice is eagerly sought on vital questions. Frances Mangum By Fay Ollerton STUDENT of pioneer times A in Mormondom often feels the sameness of the lives, especially of the women. A cursory study reveals one hardship and trial after another, varied only by a different kind of test to go colonizing; and sweetened only the light of faith which seemed never to wane. Yet life held something fine and deep for them, even for the unknowns who moved in obscure places. It was a something that compensated for the seemingly barren years. Perhaps it was because they tasted more deeply of the creative spirit than most of us do today; they could see in the rough trails they were marking the smooth highways of later years. Whatever it was, there was purpose in their existence, a purpose so fine that it obliterated the sorrows and made of futility a thing less than a shadow. One of these women who served silently in the building of our West was Frances Mangum, born in one of the little square counties of Mississippi close to the Alabama border. Whether her parents were members of the Church when their eldest - daughter was born, her record does not say. It states only that Frances was born in 1843 and that one year later the family moved to Iowa, and that they were living there when the Mormon Battalion was mustered out of service. Nine years after her birth the family had progressed as far West as Nebraska, and in 1852 they started towards Deseret. Like all the years of pioneer migration the summer of 1852 was a hard one. Little Frances was to become so inured to suffering and privation 'that she regarded them as part of life. She walked most of the way to Payson, Utah, though she was not yet nine years of age. The sight of the dead, (cholera was raging then) wrapped in their cottonwood bark burial clothes, and the war whoops of the Indians became common things as she plodded along the sunflower trail. Once in Utah Frances' odyssey had barely begun. She was to live the rest of her life in obscure places watching the sparse green fields emake inroads against the silver sage, and to see church spires and crude school houses reared where the Indians and rattle snakes had lately held sway. From Payson the family soon moved to Nephi, where for the next few years the pioneer girl was to see with interested eyes her men folk erecting a ten foot mud wall about the little town as a protection from the Indians. In 1857, when the pioneers were resting with some security behind their fortress, Brigham Young issued a call for intrepid families to go further south in Dixieland and cultivate cotton. John Mangum, ever willing for new ventures responded. Frances was almost a woman grown now and must do a woman's FRANCES work. One of her first duties was the getting of cotton seed. There was no gin then and the girl must labor at the tedious process of separating the thick seed from the cotton and then have John Mangum pay twenty-five cents a pound for the finished product. Later in the season when the cotton lay like snow on the brown stalks she picked it, then wove and spun it into dress material for the sons and daughters of Zion. \ | OURTSHIP, like hardship, came early but did not last so long; it was commonplace for a girl to be married in her early teens. In the year 1857 she met Gabrel Coley, presumably from Texas, since Frances' record states that he returned there. In April, 1858 in the first bloom of a Dixie spring they were married by Apostle Amassa Lyman. Within a year their only child Winnie Frances was born, but the added burden proved too much for Gabrel; and with one gesture he forsook both his family and church for what he considered the easier life in Texas. The next year Frances married James M. Mangum. Three children all of whom died in infancy were born to them. Frances must have felt some peace and stability for they lived continuously in the southland until 1869, when she and James were called to pioneer Kanab. They were ten years among the red hills and the cedars before they followed the Mormon trail to Arizona and Apache county. Old Geronomo was on the war path with his cruel braves and Frances was to feel once more the excitement and torment of earlier years. In 1888 James Mangum died. For a few years she struggled against ill health and poverty, then her old spirits and energy returned, for she MANGUM 405 was needed in the little settlements of Apache County. Four years before her husband's death Bishop Benjamin Noble, knowing full well her sturdy qualities, her gentleness with the sick, and her intelligence set her apart as a midwife. If her calling previous to this time had been to pioneer the waste places, hereafter she was to aid souls into the places she had prepared for them. Night or day for years she was subject to calls in the little town where she lived, or over perilous mountain paths. All in all with no special aid she brought more than four hundred infants into the world, and her fees for all of them would scarcely pay for one child's entry into life in the year 1931. She was not destined to spend her days peacefully in the home her husband had reared for her. It was in 1897 that Winnie's husband died, leaving her a legacy of nine children. When Frances was not in the sick room she was sewing and weav- _ ing and turning almost any kind of honest toil into money for her grandchildren. In 1917 she packed her household goods and moved again, this time to Central, a little town in the eastern part of Arizona. Ten years of this and she made her last journey to Duncan, a tiny place where she was to spend her last days with her daughter and an unmarried grandson. Duncan was not far, as miles go, from her first Utah home, but she was to feel that an eternity of experience separated the two. She died when she was eightyfive years old, still in possession of her mental faculties and of her zest for life and her faith in the Church that had led her from the river lands of the old south to the dry spaces of the West where her kind was needed and appreciated. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon EADERSHIP may be on a stage that is little or large, in the spotlight or in the wings but it is something to be more than a follower. Age of the Pullitzer prizes awarded annually by the Trustees of Columbia University from the foundation of the late Joseph Pullitzer were won by women. | To Margaret Ayer Barnes for the best American novel: Years of Grace was awarded $1,000, and Susan Gaspell was awarded $1,000. For the best American play: Allison's House. Bryn Mawr College has awarded its "eminent achievement" prize of $5,000 to Jane Addams, founder of Hull House and a great welfare worker. M ADAM OLINIA ROISETTI A AGREETI of Italy was the only woman delegate to the sixth congress of the International Chamber of Congress. Yes never too late to learn is proven by the new school for elderly women opened recently in San Francisco. The purpose of the school is to teach women past middle age how to care for themselves and help them get positions. De: women of the Civic League of Pasadena, after vainly protesting against the tearing down of the cabin in Carmelita Park in which a part of California's most romantic novel, Ramona, was written, by Helen Hunt Jackson, are now asking for the reconstruction of the cabin on the old site and begging the city fathers that no other landmarks be destroyed without public notice. It is to be hoped the League will be successful. Too many landmarks of historic value have been destroyed, not all in California either. HILE Mrs. Thomas A. Edison makes the claim that the next twenty years will bring women back in the home, the National President of Federation of Women's Clubs asserts that women are ready to take their places side by side with men in all fields. The fact that the Institute of Crafts and Industry of 'Waterbury after many years of service has decided to close its doors because of lack of interest, would bear out the latter statement. The modern girl does not care to knit or sew. ACATION time is now on and it might be well to consider the fact that a vacation is an investment according to the use one makes of it. It pays no dividend unless it gives rest and fits one with fresh viewpoint and zest for the year to come. -HE death of Mrs. Whitelaw Reid at Rosemary on _ the Riveria, the home of her daughter Lady Ward, removes from American social and political circles a truly great woman. Though an accomplished social leader Mrs. Reid gave liberally of her time and means for the advancement and betterment of mankind. She founded schools, and homes, and hospitals, in New York, California, London and Paris, was active in Red Cross work and encouraged art and education especially for women. HAPPENINGS Just before she sailed for Europe to spend her 73rd spring abroad, she turned over her great Ophir Hall at Purchase, N. Y., to the King of Siam, America's most distinguished guest. A GOOD SALAD FOR WOMEN GENEROUS number of kind words Any amount of good cheer, 407 Equal quanities of gentleness and courage. Combined with patience and sincerity, Seasoned with a dash of fun. Measure all with the "Golden Rule" and mix well with two handfuls of warm handclasps. Garnish with smiles and serve with a dressing of courtesy. Patriotism of the Daughters of the Utah - Pioneers By Julia P. M. Farnsworth it, is love and loyalty to God, home and country. If there exists today an organization of women in America with reason to be imbued with these characteristics, it is the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers. By right of inheritance they possess these qualifications, as most of them came of the line of patriots who were -of the early Colonial settlers. Their ancestors emigrated from European countries to the new world, and proved their right to recognition. The fathers and mothers of the Pp ATRIOTISM, as J understand Daughters of Utah Pioneers, per-- manently established one of the states of the Union, between the great East and the far West. This linking of the continent made travel safe and emigration sure. Our parents encouraged agriculture and commerce; they helped to develop the mines, and every other industry possible. They built churches, homes, school houses, and ever extended, in a most gracious manner, their hospitality to the stranger within our gates. From the period of the settlements in 1847, in Utah, we have been taught to honor and respect our American laws and government, to cherish her Constitution and Declaration of Independence, to love her history and her gallant countrymen, and everything that tends to the ennobling and elevating of humanity. You cannot, within the United States, find women who have sacrificed more, to express their reverence for the flag, than have the wives, mothers and daughters of the Utah Pioneers. With God and family our country claims our full allegiance! The society of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers was organized by a true and loyal heroine, Annie Taylor Hyde. On her mother's line she was a descendant of the early covenantors of Scotland, the Ballantyne's who were a splendid type of people; her father was the revered and cultured president, John Taylor. In addition to being men and women of sterling character, our Utah Pioneers were also people of great ability, and the object of the organization of the Daughters of 408 the Pioneers, which was perfected on the 11th of 'April, 1901, just 30 years ago, was to keep in our memories the lives, works, and accomplishments of our early pioneers— our fathers, 'mothers and grandparents, and the noble examples and the worthy teachings they have left us, what they actually did, and what they expected us to do. It is our aim not to disappoint them, but to keep the heritage they have left us, and hand it on enriched and enlarged. Our inspiration comes when we review that marvelous task, the great journey across the trackless plains, with no guides but the stars of heaven, no director but the spirit of God. Brigham Young, that great and fearless colonizer, in company with the other heroic men guided our people, under the inspiration of an all-wise power, on that long and desolate journey, beset as they were by difficulties every mile of the way. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE All had faith to sustain them, and acknowledged that the ultimate result for which they were seeking would be theirs. Yet fortitude and constant manual labor was necessary to sustain them and to keep alive the spirit of achievement; to safeguard the health and to preserve the lives of the people. The wives, mothers and daughters took an active part in this all along the way. Examples of morality and right standards were prominently before them, and these were inspired and led by the loftiest patriotism with liberty, freedom and devotion always in their hearts. May the daughters be true to the faith, and institutions which were built upon honor! May they maintain the qualities of truth and honesty, for the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, as did their mothers, thoroughly understand the meaning and the magnificance of real patriotism! Champions By Ian Dawn ed him when he came to us first at the Home. I often wondered how such a frail little atom could live. He was ever in the black books with the matron and the gardener, not that he was all bad but being more or less handicapped by illness he seemed to cherish a grudge against the world in general. Even on what we termed his good days he usually started in to behave badly. During playtime in the garden he would forage for all kinds of fruit although he knew that was forbidden. Like a squirrel he found a quiet corner and had a feast. What he could not eat made fine ammunition to be fired at other patients. ITTLE Bag-of-Bones we callComplaints would follow and then little Ishmael was in trouble again. On these occasions he could contrive _to look very wistful and his cough would get very bad, so instead of punishment he would be put to bed and treated like a wounded hero. He could never tell us anything about his home life. He would reiterate, Father just went away. Mother is not dead, she needed a rest so the angels took her; baby brother is in another home." Truly "the thoughts of a child are long, long thoughts." His great desire was to get into the same home as his little brother. Many a time after a long silence he would say, "I know that Jesus died for me." Then he would look very CHAMPIONS perplexed and say, "Don't you think the angels are taking a long time to bring mother back?" As time went on I began to dread what was coming when the little mouth would shut tight, the fair hair would be all rumpled, and the bonnie blue eyes took on a troubled far away look. After much silent prayer to our Father I found courage one day to tell him that mother could not come to earth again, they would be taken to her. He looked very thoughtful at that but not a word did he say. Before leaving us to go to a home for older boys we had many long conversations. We talked of the Plan of Salvation as taught to Mormon children, of the Gold Plates and a strong young Prophet hero who died for the truth, of Brigham Young and his pioneers who blazed a trail across what was No Man's Land at that time, of the beautiful Temples where work is done to prepare for the coming of this same Jesus. Boylike he would exclaim, "What champions they were." By the restful look that crept into his earnest eyes and the calm that entered my own heart I knew that all was well with the lad. Years passed, then came the Great War. At the Mission, as elsewhere, our Relief Societies had much work for the Red Cross. In France, in Palestine, in North Russia, and on the wild North Sea were our dear ones. Heavy hearts could not be 409 allowed to hinder us, a never ending supply of hospital garments and bandages had to be prepared. After meeting it was our custom to stand in the outer hall and discuss our plans and fears for our absent ones before going out into the darkened gloomy streets. Then it was that I became aware of a little soldier boy passing and repassing the gate. On inquiry I learned to my surprise and joy that he was my little Ishmael straight as an arrow. The "Glengarry cap" set jauntily on his fair head told me that he belonged to a Scottish regiment. One of the little, but good "Bantams."'* My joy was short-lived. He had come to say good-bye. He was enroute to I'rance. Owing to an accident in the orphan's home the little brother was dead. He uttered no murmur nor regret. His wistful far away smile told me he knew all was well. "See you first leave if all's well," jhe said: On second thought he bravely added. "Should I never see you again you know all's well just the same." In Flanders among the poppies rests a broken body. Beyond the river in the Summer Land of Love the angels with mother and the little one rejoiced together to welcome home another Champion. *The "Batams" were a Battalion of the Royal Scots composed of very small men. The Higher qe higher patriotism is not selfish or vain or opinionated or combative. Those traits belong to that wall of prejudice and self-seeking, personal and national, which is so often painted to look like patriotism. The higher patriotism sees in one's nation a moral personality with Patriotism a conscience as well as an intelligence and with a high purpose as well as with material interests. The higher patriotism asks not alone for opportunity to thrive and to gain, but for opportunity to inspire, to succor and to serve. —Nicholas Murray Butler. Crude were the looms They plied, With weary hands; Rough-hewn the plough That bit the arid lands. But as they toiled With hope beyond the day, There loomed in vision, Endlessly away, A fair and teeming country-side— Vast in its reach, subdued And glorified! —Louts W. Larsen. A Wish By 'Mary Ellen Fletcher I wish you the art to appreciate, To enjoy this world of ours, The birds and the bees, The brooklets and tree, The hills, the sun, the flowers. The broad deep river running by, The mountains airy height. The grasses green,: C The lake's blue sheen, And the butterflies in flight. I wish you a heart that understands, _ Forgives the faults of fellow-men. Has pity's art, A humble heart, That how to comfort sorrows kens. I wish you the love of a loyal heart, Friends, posterity, home. Work and rest, And all things best, As through this life you roam. Sealed With the Peace Pipe By Allen Buice Hunt ETSY, the fourteen year old daughter of Ammon Hensley was dipping water into a large water pail at the spring fifty yards below her father's ranch house and as she raised the pail and turned toward the house, her eyes fell upon the form of a man not ten feet ahead.. She didn't cry out, for she realized that she would not be heard. She was alone at the ranch. Her father had gone to the railroad to meet her mother, who was returning from the east where she had been called to the bedside of her dying mother. Her only brother was with the roundup fifteen or twenty miles down the valley, and her only sister had gone with her father. Betsy was terrified at the sight of the man. Her keen eyes told her that this man with his bonnet of eagle feathers, his buckskin breeches and a tomahawk that hung from his buckskin belt, was a savage Indian. Too bewildered and frightened to try to run away even if it were possible to outrun a fleetfooted Indian, Betsy gasped and dropped her pail of water, and obeyed the command to walk ahead of her captor toward two waiting pintos. The little Mormon settlement where Besty lived, nestled in a pearshaped valley just below the falls, where Water Canyon emptied into the Little Colorado, the lower end of the valley forming the pear stem, where the high bluffs closed in and sent the river tumbling down through rocky gorges. To the east was Flat Top mountain less than five miles away and to 'the south the mountains rose abruptly into a heavy forest of pine and spruce. To the west the wide mesas rose gradually for twenty miles before ending abruptly at the base of the great White Mountain range, beyond which lay the Apache Indian Reservation. Heading the ponies westward, they rode out of the valley and began the long ascent toward the mountains, and Betsy's thought that she was a captive of the terrible Apaches tortured her. For long torturous hours they rode silently, not a word being spoken by her captor, and none being ventured by the frightened girl. Near midnight, the trail led them to a spring that came bubbling out of a ledge of protruding rock in the edge of the timber, at the base of the mountains. Dismounting, and ordering the girl to do likewise, he motioned to her to drink. The frightened girl had not realized until then that she was very thirsty, and the cool water soothed her nerves, and cooled her fevered brain. After allowing the ponies to drink, her captor muttered something about too much riding, and that a walk would rest them, so they led the ponies for half a mile. Though she was accustomed to riding, Betsy welcomed this change with a sigh of relief. For hours they rode, picking their way around through the thick undergrowth of pine and_ spruce, around thickets of quaking asp and rocky ledges, across wide flats where the stars cast welcome light between the tall pines, and heading canyon 412 gorges, over steep inclines to emerge again upon open grassy flats. Betsy had ridden in the mountains with her father, and as she estimated the distance they had ridden thirty or thirty-five miles, when her captor began changing their course often, and only by watching the stars, could she keep even a semblance of her sense of direction. For more than an hour, they wound through thickets, around broken masses of mountain wall, down through rugged canyons, up again over ridges where only a sure footed horse could travel, and topping a high ridge, Betsy noted the rising of the morning star. It was still dark when they drew up to a crude, but newly constructed pole cabin in a deep dark gorge, which the girl estimated must be not more than an hour's ride from the borderline of the Indian reservation. Into this rude one room structure, her captor guided her, and barred the door on the outside. Betsy surmised that he had gone to stake or hobble the ponies on the knee-high grass that grew in every foot of space not occupied by a tree or a stone. By a crude fireplace lay wood and kindling, and the way the ashes were heaped told her coals might still be alive. She was cold from the long night ride, and taking a stick from the pile of wood, she uncovered live coals. She was just getting warm, and trying to center her thoughts on some means of possible escape, when she heard a commotion just outside the door, a gutteral command, followed by a pistol shot, and a dank thud. The door faced the west, and peering through an opening between the logs, she saw that day was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE breaking upon the deep canyon, and a faint ray of sunshine was playing on the topmost peak to the west. Her first startled thought was that by some chance, one of the men had returned from the roundup, had missed her at the ranch, and surmising what happened, had followed them, and had been murdered just as he was about to rescue her. In that case, her rescue would be more difficult, if not altogether impossible, and the thought of that, and of the fate of her would-be rescuer, added to her frenzy as another light sound fell upon her ears. The outside bar that held her captive, was being raised. Suiting action to her thoughts, she sprang for the inside bar and was about to swing it in place, when the door opened, and she gazed into the eyes of a battle scarred Apache, his face grim, his tomahawk still in his hand. For an instant her frightened eyes stared at the newcomer and her heart was skipping every other beat, when the sweetest music she had ever heard in her life, broke upon her ears as she recognized the face and the voice, saying, '""Have no fear, little girl of my friend, it is Wake All Night," and she fell into the arms of the old Apache whom her father had years before rescued from a band of outlaws. Then as if reading the question in the girl's mind, the old man said, "Me follow all night," and turning, led the girl to where her captor lay with his head almost severed froin his body, where the old man's tomahawk had found its unerring mark. "Heap bad paleface," the old man grunted, and began ripping the Indian regalia from the body. Then the girl gasped, as she recognized the face, though painted to resemble an Indian, as the man whom her father had discharged % SEALED WITH THE PEACE PIPE early in the year, when he caught him burning a brand into an animal run by a gang of rustlers over the line in New Mexico. She was about to throw her arms around the old warrior and thank him again, when her eyes fell upon a crimson stain on his buckskin jacket, that told her the pistol bullet she had heard, had not missed its mark very far. The old man was staggering, and it was with extreme effort that she held him on his feet till they reached the outlaw's bunk in the cabin, where she dressed and bandaged the wound. For days, she nursed the old man with all the skill received from her frontier life. Betsy realized that her father and mother would surmise her fate by the way she had disappeared without finishing the dishes, and not leaving a note, and the water pail near the spring, and the tracks of moccasined feet, and the horses' tracks that something was wrong. She knew that the community would be up in arms, and _ that searching parties would scour the country, that her parents would be desperate with anxiety and fear for her, and she wanted to mount one of the ponies and ride fast to the settlement, or till she would meet a searching party. But to leave her patient and rescuer, even for an hour, might mean death to him, and it would take several hours hard riding to reach the first point where she could hope to meet anyone. It was on the third day, that one of his own braves had sighted the thin spiral of smoke rising from the deep canyon, as the setting sun revealed it to him, silhouetted against the canyon wall. He had crept silently up to the cabin, fearing that it was the rendezvous of an outlaw band, and had peered through the opening in the 413 log wall, and watched the girl administering to her patient, and heard him, while in one of his conscious moments, telling her how to signal to his people. "Make heap big smoke in the fireplace," he was telling her, 'then go on top, and throw blanket over. Hold breath long as you can, then let smoke go," and in his own way, he told her to repeat the operation several times. A light rap on the door brought Betsy to her feet, and the old warrior felt of his tomahawk which lay always at his side, and was about to make a terrible effort to rise when he heard a familiar voice calling his own name, and that of his friend. "Tt is well," he called to the girl, then sunk into unconsiousness again. Together, the Mormon girl and the Indian brave watched the old warrior through the night, and at dawn the smoke signals began to rise intermittently from the chimney top, and before noon, at least a dozen braves had arrived at the little impoverished hospital-outlaw rendezvous. Two of the braves best known to the Mormons were about to start on their journey to the settlement, when they sighted a posse cautiously picking their way through the crags of an almost perpendicular canyon wall, rifles raised, Betsy's father in the lead. Swiftly darting behind boulders, and trees, the braves called Betsy, and the posse was welcomed to the rapidly increasing group of redmen. An hour later, when the old warrior had rallied to an extent surprising to Betsy, she witnessed the sealing with the Peace Pipe of one of the most sincere bonds of friendship, that ever took place between two vastly, or was it so vastly, different peoples. Covered Wagons By Elsie E. Barrett Oh, those sturdy Covered Wagons! Could they speak, what tales they'd tell Of the struggles, pain and hardships Early Pioneers befell. They would tell of brave souls trudging, Pushing handcarts all day long, Of the feet so worn and blistered Though each heart was true and strong. They would tell of strength, through knowledge, Of the Gospel Plan restored, As foretold by ancient Prophets Killed by torture, hunger, sword. Tell how these true souls they carried, Could not doubt, though hard the way; Had they not the proof—translated, And the Holy Ghost each day? Tell of faith and love and courage, Bearing all to reach their goal; Over trackless wastes, undaunted; Trust and prayer in every soul. Marking roads to future greatness Where in freedom they could grow To a Commonwealth exalted Where true precepts they could show. They would tell in trembling voices, How, at times, Fate seemed unkind; Tell of tears and prayers and heartaches As they left new graves behind. Tell of joyful campfire singing Songs of Praise and "All Is Well." Oh, those sturdy Covered Wagons! Could they speak, What Tales They'd Tell, { f BS. RAT AD 4 % E = We | $ a4 a ie e.: srw Cottonwood Stake Maternity Hospital By Emily M. Carlisle HE Cottonwood Stake Maternity Hospital opened May 15th, a $7,500 new addition. Dr. Beatty, Utah State Commissioner Of Health, expressed his approval of the excellence of the institution, which he rated as fully equipped and up to date in every particular, in fact a model maternit; hospital. He said, 'Women who have the privilege of care in this hospital may consider 'themselves most fortunate. The record of one thousand cases without a death speaks for itself, when it is considered that the average death of mothers in child-birth in the United States is seven per thousand. There is great need in Utah for more maternity hospitals of the same character." Modern conveniences for a maternity hospital that were added at the recent addition are, a new delivery room, a new nursery, an isolation room and new wards. The delivery room and nursery have a southern exposure, and in connection with the service rooms and sterilization room are enclosed away from the rest of the hospital. Every protective measure has been taken to insure a safe birth for infants and safe child-bearing for mothers. Beauty as well as utility have been considered. The interior walls are painted sunny colors with linoleum and tiling all matching. The Hospital on 56th South and 4th East, has a cool, quiet restful location. The Relief Society is looking into the future to make it more beautiful. With the help of the stake presidency and the wards. One-hundred sixty-five trees and 416 shrubs were planted. Among them were sixty-five Norway Maple trees.. Ee hospital, which was opened in October, 1924, owes much of its success to the fine vision, the executive ability, and the untiring efforts of the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society Presidency, Mrs. Amanda Bagley, Mrs. Rena Wheeler and Mrs. Nellie Cornwall, with their board. It is rare indeed that the power to see what is needed, and the ability to materialize this into the actual elements of service, find so splendid an expression. Their souls were challenged by the call of mothers for this service in their own community. How freely and unstintedly they gave of their time and labor is told in the story of their marvelous achievements. Fortunately too, has it been that the 'succeeding officers, President Vera Wahlquist, with her officers and board members, and the present officers, Mrs. Emily M. Carlisle, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mrs. Sarah Ross and Mrs. Lona Heiner, have carried on the work so splendidly. Nor could this fine work be consummated without the support and hearty cooperation of the Stake Presidents, Uriah G. Miller and Henry D. Moyle. At present Mrs. Ruby Richards Hansen is Superintendent. She isa graduate nurse and well qualified for the position. Two graduate nurses and other efficient help are employed. Each patient has her own doctor. Mrs. Lona L. Heiner second counselor in the Relief Society assists in the purchasing and keeping the books, the ward Relief Societies, the stake presidency with Henry D. Moyle as president and members of the stake are interested in making the hospital a success. Since its opening there have been 1378 babies born in the hospital. Such good care has been taken of them that the death rate has been very low. Notes to the Field Suggestions to Visiting Teacher Class Leaders HE greatest peril in the world today is the lack of spirituality. Devout Christians everywhere are recognizing the need of a reaction toward religion. They feel the urgent necessity of spiritual leadership to guide them through the wilderness of modern unbelief. Latter-day Saints must be spiritual. Our Gospel is the "glad tidings'—the light —for which the world is groping, but cannot see. We have the opportunity, and it is our duty to be the great spiritual force on earth. To be worthy of the name we have assumed we must be untiring in our vigilance to perfect the world and prepare the way for our Master and herald His second coming. The women of the Church have a large share of the responsibility in this work. This is especially true of the Relief Society visiting teacher. Her work may seem humble, but it is vital. To her is given the important privilege of entering into the joy and siuctess, the sorrow and distress of those upon whom she calls in the intimate relation of the family circle. She has the opportunity to share their happiness and re-~ lieve their suffering. The teacher has power and influence because she has the rare chance to translate precept into action. Kindly, sympathetic understanding—that quality commonly called tact—is a necessary attribute of the teacher. Special education is required in many phases of our work, but with the teacher the important thing is love. The ability to radiate peace and good cheer is the most needful qualification. The nature of the visit of the teacher invites the confidence of others and entitles her to that confidence. If she has the spirit of Christ people will naturally confide in her, and by that same token she will keep the trust sacred. Jesus loved mankind better than He loved Himself. All He has asked of us is to love others as much as we love ourselves. If we did that think what it would mean! We would be considerate of the feelings of others. We would be happy in their success and advancement. We would hide their weaknesses and faults. Wie would guard their unhappy secrets as we would our own if placed in similar circumstances. We would observe the Golden Rule. We would keep the second great commandment—we would love our neighbor as ourself. Qk are two warring forces in human nature, Hatred and Love. Hate is jealousy, fault-finding, bitterness, gossiping, self-aggrandizement. Love is kindness, sympathy, generosity, tolerance, patience. Hate destroys. Love builds and strengthens. Hate is the spirit of Evil. Love is the spirit of God. Every word, deed, or thought that is unworthy of Jesus is destructive. Love is the only force that can defeat hate. To interpret fully the meaning of the work of our Lord it is necessary to accept the rules of: conduct by which He lived. Jesus, being a God had all intelligence and power. Yet, according to all the records of His life, these are not the attributes which He stresses. His outstanding characteristics in the flesh are sympathy, humility, love. A devout and constant study of His life, cannot but make one accept love as the guiding force of one's existence. If every teacher will think of herself as an ambassador of Christ, carrying the message of His sacrifice, His kindness, 418 His forgiveness, and His understanding she will appreciate the sacredness of her calling. She will rejoice that she has been called to do so great a work. It is this thought that suggested the precepts of Jesus as desirable texts for the teachers' topics during the coming year. To carry out this idea in the most successful way it will be necessary for the teachers to make a devoted and somewhat comprehensive study of His life. T is the desire of the Genera! Board that the teachers use the topic in their monthly visit, even though opportunity does not permit of an elaboration of the idea; that the text at least be left in every home. We suggest that the teachers put into effect the admonition of the Savior to His disciples: "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, 'Peace be to this house'." Luke 10:5. It may not be possible nor appropriate to speak the words aloud, - but if the thought is sufficiently potent it will affect. The atmosphere of the home. We ask you to accept this as the watchword of the Relief Society Visiting Teachers. We beg you to urge the teachers to read a few chapters of the New Testament every day, that they may - come to know and love our Savior more tenderly; that they may pray constantly for inspiration in their work; that they may feel His divine presence as they enter every home; that they may carry with them and leave behind them His spirit of comfort and cheer. We entreat you, sisters, to strive earnestly to make the life of Jesus our Redeemer become a tender, vital, moving force in the lives of those with whom you labor. We pray that the work of the teachers may be blessed, that the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mission of the Latter-day Saints may soon be consummated, and the world be made ready for the coming of our Master and our Lord. Our First Obligation While we should support the bishops and do all in our power to aid in building meeting houses and chapels, we hear of some Relief Soci- "eties who become so interested in raising money for ward buildings that they neglect their charity work, which is their first obligation. One Relief Society that proudly boasted of raising several thousand dollars for the meetine house has no charity fund whatever, and the charity work in that ward is reported in a very much neglected condition. Let us learn to put first things first. Tree Planting We would like each Stake to send in to the General Secretary the number of trees they have planted this spring. Cooperate With State Board of Health It is estimated that 10,000 of the 16,000 mothers who died in 1930 from conditions attendant upon childbirth could have been spared had they received proper attention. It is estimated that 30,000 babies died in the United States in 1930 from preventable causes. The Relief Society is desirous of doing ail in its power to decrease this distressing mortality. Relief Society presidents in Utah should get in touch with Dr. T. B. Beatty, State Health Commissioner, State Capitol, Salt Lake City, and have literature which he has for free distribution sent to expectant mothers on the care of the mother and the care of the baby. We presume that other State Boards of Health have similar literature for distribution. Notes from the Field Swedish Mission: (ee office is in receipt of a most interesting history of the Swedish Mission Relief Societies. In the beginning of the year 1930, instructions were sent by Sister Leah D. Widtsoe, president of the European Mission Relief Societies, that an historical record was to be kept of the Relief 'Society work accomplished in the Swedish Mission, the history to begin on January 1, 1930. It includes the happenings of the different events of historical value. Month by month these happenings were recorded in a specially bound book, to be kept for all future reference. This record shows that fifteen Relief Societies were organized in the Swedish Mission, named after the places where the branch organization exists. The plan of organization followed was in harmony with that of the Relief Society, viz., a president, two counselors, a secretary-treasurer, an organist and chorister, a class leader, also the necessary district teachers, and a regular roll of the various members. In some few cases the organization was not quite complete, due to lack of members, but a uniform history and record book will be kept in the mission. Sister Signe L. Hulterstrom, has presided over the Swedish Mission Relief Society, since arriving in the mission on November 28, 1927. The meetings held in the mission have followed the general plan, with a uniform lesson course just as far as it is possible. On March 17, 1930, a special program was given in commemoration of the organization of the Relief Society in the year 1842. Reports were received from the branches of the mission that a most wonderful time was experienced during the exercises of this special event. Several inspiring talks were given, and fine songs and music appropriate to the occasion were rendered. Everything the Relief Society sisters have done. During the year 1930, was with the centennial thought in view. In honor of the one hundredth anniversary of the Church, the sisters took an active part in the different programs, and rendered all the assistance possible to the brethren. They decorated the halls, prepared food and refreshments, and contributed much towards the success of the centennial meetings.. The Spring Jubilee Conferences were held on the different Sundays in the five districts of the mission, these in addition to the regular Relief Society meetings. Upon these special occasions pageants were presented, dialogues were giVen, and other special numbers rendered. The attendance was unusually good. On April 6, a special branch conference was held in every branch in the mission. At these conferences the special message from the First Presidency of the Church was read. The Relief Society sisters were active in all of these programs. One day of particular interest was the celebration on the 24th of July. This in far away Sweden, gave a touch of home to the missionaries, and the meetings were held with special commemorative exercises. In all of this, it is felt that the Relief Society is a wonderful aid to the mission branches. Bazaars have been held, much actual charity work has been done, and everybody was 420 cheered up by the sisters at the time of their meetings and in their special visits. Northwestern States Mission (Dillon Branch): THE above picture is of a cast "The Dillon Sewing Circle," which was presented along with a musical program, following a banquet, to which 80 guests were invited. This was in honor of the 89th anniversary of the founding of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE versary. A brief review of the history and development of the organization was given by the president of the Society. The Literary Department was represented by a dramatization of Oscar Wilde's story "The Selfish Giant," fifteen children of the Primary Asociation assisting. Social welfare work was demonstrated by a welfare scene. A local doctor, assisted by a nurse, attended a sick child, and a Relief Society welfare worker delivered food and "THE DILLON SEWING CIRCLE" the Relief Society. The Dillon branch in the Northwestern States mission is a small one, but a steady growth is marked, and with the spirit of willingness to serve, and capable members, the organization is carried on most successfully. There is an enrolled membership of 17. Northwestern States Mission (Seattle Branch): O N Sunday, March 15, the Seattle, Washington, Relief Society of the Northwestern States Mission, presented a program in commemoration of the Relief Society anniclothing for the mother and her three children. The Theology department took its theme from a poem by Ellen L. Jakeman, which appeared in the March 1928 Relief Society Magazine, "This is the Day (A. Plea to the Lamanite Sisters)." Eight sisters dressed in Indian costumes were in the background seated around a camp fire in front of a tepee. A mixed quartette sang, "Oh Stop and Tell Me Red Man," and a Lamanite sister responded, giving the "Response of the Lamanite Sisters," by S. T. Brimhall Foley, which appeared in the February 1931 Magazine. In this scene the NOTES FROM THE FIELD Lamanite sisters came forward, leaving their blankets and now wearing brightly colored dresses and shoes, seated themselves at the front of the stage. The last scene represented Eliza R. Snow composing the hymn, "OQ My Father." 'Accompanying this scene was soft violin and piano music. The portrayal of the composition of this beautiful hymn was inspired by the study of past literary lessons of the Church hymns and composers. The Branch choir and an organ soloist furnished appropriate music during the program. Eastern States Mission (Washington, D. C. Branch): O*' February 28, 1931, in Washington, D. C., the Washington branch of the Relief Society celebrated its fifth birthday by a most successful reception at the home of Senator and Mrs. Reed Smoot. In the receiving line, and those who assisted in serving during the evening, were Relief Society officers, past presidents and charter members of the organization. Wonderful music, both vocal and instrumental, 421 added greatly to the enjoyment oi the evening. There were over 200 guests at this happy event. A large birthday cake, made by Sister V. B. Isbel, was in reality a collection box for voluntary contributions. Donations ranged from $10.00 to a few cents, and the total amound raised was $115.00. The expense of the event was comparatively small. The following picture is of the birthlay calge. Central States Mission (Independence Branch): TR secretary of the Independence Branch of the Central States Mission, writes as follows: "Our branch is not so very large, only numbering about 30. Of these there are not so many who can attend our meetings, but the sisters who do come are very energetic, and are able to do a lot of work. We serve din-~ ners at our conferences twice a year, and make our money to pay the expenses of the Society, and to care for the sick. The Society is diligent in looking after the needy. So far SISTER V. B. ISHBEL holding the Cake used as a Constitution Box 422 this year we have already paid out about $60.00 to the poor. That is a large sum considering the few people who are here engaged. We hold our meetings regularly each Tuesday. The second Tuesday we meet early, and serve a covered dish luncheon, then quilt for the remainder of the day. We intend to carry this part of our work on all during the summer." 'On March 13th, we had an entertainment, when we presented the beautiful pageant "The Guardianship of Life." This was under the direction of Sister Vesa C. Marler. There was a good attendance, and we were able, with the returns from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE this, to entertain our members and their escorts at our banquet on March 17th. Upon this event we had a wonderful program and a very fine dinner, and entertained about 65 guests. The program included a poem written by our own sister Isabelle Ireland, also a song written by her which was appropriate to the occasion. "We are very fortunate here in Independence, to have with us most of the year, our dear Sister Charlotte T. Bennion, who is president of the Relief Societies of the Central States Mission. We appreciate greatly her words of encouragement and guidbe) ance. —Pictorial California, All Year Club Photo. Straining trees, their roots buried deep in the rich beach soil, defy the wind and rain near the Palos Verdes Hills of California. The grasses along the roadway bow their heads before the wind, but the trees, heads erect and branches held up to the breezes defy the elements, They have sturdy, strong arms. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL ROARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - MRS, JULIA ALLEMAN' CHILD MRS. JULIA A. Ay LUND - - President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empe Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. MeLelland Mrs, Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howellg Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs, Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor:: -.:. - Mary Connetty Kimparr Manager: Louise Y. Rozgison Assistant aariaeer Amy Brown Lyman VoL. XVIII JULY, 1931 No. 7 EDITORIAL Length of Days of constant study and interest. Lengthening the span of life has been a quest of the ages for men long for length of days. The American Philosophical Society had for consideration at its meeting in April, "Lengthening the Span of Life." Lee K. Frankel, in discussing the subject of life expectancy, said that 140 years ago the same subject was laid before the Philosophical Society in a paper entitled, "Probabilities of the Duration of Human Life and the Progress of Population in the United States." In that paper the writer gave statistics and carried a comparison through youth and middle age. He pointed out that of 1000 persons born in Philadelphia, 400 were alive at twenty years, 140 at fifty, and 6 at eighty, while in London only 272 survived to twenty ITE in all its phases is a source years, 140 to the age of fifty, and 2 to the fourscore rank. Mr. Frankel said that at the present time of every 1000 persons born under the protection of modern medical and sanitary science, 836 are alive at twenty, 657 at fifty, and 133 at eighty. From 1790 to 1890, eight years were added to the average length of life in this country. By 1930 the eight years had been increased to twenty-four, so life expectancy is nearly twenty-five years greater than it was when the American Philosophical Society first discussed the subject. However, Mr. Frankel doubts if any considerable addition will be made to the span of life itself. He says that while fewer people die in the earlier years, he feels that the human machine is set to run just so long and then runs down, He says the talk of extend- 424 ing the average life period into the hundreds is not encouraged by actuaries or medical science in general. Mr. Frankel points out that the desirable thing is for a normal life unimpaired by illness, and then the great finale, "as one who wraps the drapery of his couch about him and lies down to pleasant dreams."— Bryant. A dramatic and interesting event during the meeting of the Society and especially in the light of the discussions participated in, was the death of its president, Dr. Dercum, for he illustrated the kind of a death Mr. Frankel had pointed out as desirable. Dr. Dercum had been one of Woodrow Wilson's physicians. At the opening of the Society, he faced a room well filled with distinguished scientists who had gathered for the annual meeting. He sat in the high backed "step ladder chair'"* of Benjamin Franklin, who founded this oldest scientific body in the United States. Dr. Dercum knew that he faced death for he had suffered with a weak heart and had *The "step ladder" has a folding arm contrived by Franklin for use in climbing for books on high library shelves. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to be carried into the building. His friends thought that his great interest in presiding at this meeting, the seventh year of his presidency, had held death at bay for some time. He was about to pick up the gavel; he leaned slightly forward as if to study the papers on his desk, and then sank quietly into an attitude of rest in his chair. Death came at that moment, but the audience thought he had fainted. The doctor who was called said "his death was as easy and painless as this" — and he placed his finger tips on a friend's coat' lapel and pressed it lightly. 'While he was working happily, his heart stopped." Professor William Berryman Scott of Princeton University took the chair and said, '"Dr. Dercum is dead. The meeting will proceed as scheduled. He would have wished it so." In the future man can hope to look forward to an average of seventy or even of one hundred years; but the important thing is not length of days but better health right up to the end—a century of unimpaired usefulness and then death approximating Bryant's quotation. This is the consummation to be desired in the opinion of Mr. Frankel. June Conferences E congratulate the Mutual Improvement and the Primary Associations for the excellence of their conferences, held June 11 to 14 and June 12 to 16 respectively. The programs were carefully planned and_ effectively carried out and gave invaluable training to their officers. The attendance was large. The Primary had representatives from each of the 104 stakes in the Church and from some of the missions; and the conjoint roll call of the Mutual Improvement Associations showed representation from every stake but one, and from several missions. HE Word of Wisdom exhibit sponsored by the General Boards of the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations was a most effective way of showing that science and experience and men's best thought approve of God's advice to his people EDITORIALS as contained in the Word of Wisdom. No slogan was ever launched more effectively than the one chosen for this year, '""We stand for physical, mental and spiritual health through observance of the Word of Wisdom." Thousands visited the exhibit and showed the greatest interest and certainly great good will result from this scientific and philosophical display. Another special feature of the June conference was the Pioneer Trails program. In living picture and in story the coming of different bands to the West was portrayed and eulogy of their character and accomplishments was voiced.. HE three-fold purpose of the Primary Association—religious 425 instruction, leisure time direction, and care of the health—was considered during the five-day convention of this organization. Great emphasis was placed upon how to teach children, and many education specialists appeared on the program. As an aid in recreational leadership, morning and evening classes in dancing and dramatization were held on four days of the convention; while the closing session, featuring health and the Word of Wisdown, was characterized by a playlet. An outstanding feature of the convention was the sacred pageant, "The Light and the Life of the World," presented at the Tabernacle on Sunday morning by Primary children as an expression of their religious instruction. Dean Milton Bennion Honored A' the June commencement program of the University of Utah, the honorary degree of Doctor of Education was conferred upon Dean Milton Bennion of the School of Education of the University of Utah. He is a member of the General Board of the Sunday School, and the husband of our own board member, Cora L. Bennion. He has ever been ready ot help us in our Relief Society work, and we rejoice in the well deserved honor that has come to him. He has been and will continue to be a credit to his alma mater. Not only is his work on character education known in the intermountain West but throughout the United States he is recognized as a leader in this important field. Where are Your California Friends and Relatives? OS ANGELES, San Francisco and Hollywood Stakes and the California Mission are undertaking the tremendous task of ''accounting for every Latter-day Saint" within the territories served by each of these divisions respectively. Because of the great extent of the territory and the millions of people living in it, it is well nigh impossible to make the canvas in the way it is being made in the more compactly organized stakes. For this reason the California Saints appeal to their brethren and sisters in all other parts of the world and especially in the organized stakes to assist in locating Latter-day Saints and friends of Latter-day 426 Saints living anywhere in California. On the form below give the names and addresses and mail to one or the other of the Stake Clerks named on the form. Aim to give the latest authentic address you have so as to save as much time as possible in locating the persons named. It would be highly desirable if you would write to your California John S. McCune Clerk Hollyood Stake 1209 South Manhattan Place Los Angeles, Calif. Octave Ursenbach RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE friends giving them the addresses of these stake clerks and suggesting that they communicate with the. Clerks and learn where Latter-day Saint chapels are situated so they might attend services regularly. In these California congregations your friends will enjoy the fellowship of a host of happy, whole-souled people who are earnest and active in the Church and full of faith and inspiration. Reed S. Gardner Clerk San Francisco Stake 440 Boynton Avenue Berkeley, Calif. Clerk Los Angeles Stake 1005 Wright-Callendar Bldg. Los Angeles, Calif. (Select one of these to send names and addresses to.) I am happy to give you the names and addresses of the following Latter-day Name Street Address L. D. S. Or Friend? Mem ee wee eee mm eee rere eee eer esr sere ese esrer eet soe str oe seater eerere eee sersesrseeeseessees eee er rec eer ete o west eccwrwr eo ec ert wow ess eoesnsees sees C C " a) 88) 0) 0c) 0) ol elelelolelelalisiiciclcliclolciclelelcieleicis Bem ee ee ewe ee meee ea wee mew wee meme ene eter eee sere er eer rere ee eseeseeesreeerererereeeee Back to School ALTER L. CHURCH, 83 years old, a resident of Long Beach, California, a retired attorney and educator, expects to re-enter the University of Missouri next fall after an absence of more than sixty years. In 1867 he received from the *mniversity a Bachelor of Arts degree, and in 1870 a Master of Arts degree. He also holds degrees from Washington University at St. Louis and from the University of Kentucky. He plans to specialize in sociology and education. Verily, it is never too late to learn. Allegiance By Celia Stoddard You have your beauty, desert, Gray dune upon gray dune, And space enough to think wide thoughts Beneath the low red moon. And there be those who love you, And think your wastes more fine Than green spires of tamarack Or bronze shaft of pine, Or blue lakes shining silver, Or clean smell of wood. And I could love you, deseret, Save these are in my blood. Saints and friends who live in California:. ~\: s Civic Pride An efficient coal furnace fired by an automatic stoker provides— Complete Combustion Complete combustion releases all heat values to beneficial use and results also in— Smoke-Free Chimneys Large sums invested in new heating plants designed to consume only expensive fuels is one situation. The same amount or less invested in _a coal furnace, stoker fired is another situation.. Obtain all facts pertinent to each situation before investing in either. Call Wasatch 7054 or address, THE UTAH GOAL PRODUCERS ASSOCIATION Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SPEED ECONOMY WOMEN Now Save Precious Hours CLEAN AUTOMATIC Let a Hotpoint or Westinghouse Automatic ELECTRIC RANGE do your cooking—freeing 'you from the warm kitchen—giving hours $5.00 Down Places an Electric Range In Your Home COMPLETELY INSTALLED Drop into our store and see the many models on display—or phone us. UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Effiicient Public Service of new freedom. Seven Times Champion of the World Sent to you. On Free Trial For Sale by Utah Power & Light Co. And Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Sesgo MILK Jr Puddings Pies?" Custards Minn Creams Rival At All Grocer's When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 177 E. 3rd So. St. Salt Lake City 12 POINTS OF SUPERIORITY! Foes WATCH POCKET ie 7m07more' A DOZEN REASONS WHY MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS Give Longer Wear and More Satisfaction. Bib "Stop-Loss" watch pocket. - Bib deluxe and pencil pocket.. Wide and strong suspenders. "Stop-Loss" side pockets. Large reinforced back pockets.. Wide and roomy in seat and legs.. "Stop-Loss" combination pliers and rule pocket.. Triple stitched seams.. First quality denim. 10. Bar-tacked at every point of strain. 11. Convenient match pocket. 12, pal for comfort, service—guaranteed. Due to large scale production and unusual buying power, Mountaineer Overalls with the Stop-Loss Pockets cost you no more than ordinary overalls. Ask Your Dealer for Mountaineer Overalls with Stop-Loss Pockets Manufactured in Salt Lake City by Z. C. M. I. CLOTHING FACTORY 0 IMU CoN bistinetive Society Printing ' See our specimens of Modern Wedding Invitations and Announcements [he Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS HERTHA JEPPSOUN 261S0 lST EAST BRIGHAM CITY UTAH Ler rmx MAYTAG Be Your Washday Servant —- ee: ——5 Washday responsibilities are not a worry when you have a Maytag. In an hour or so it is over —clothes washed ' beautifully clean, washed at home where you know conditions are sanitary, where the clothes are handled carefully. Families, large or small, everywhere, are saving time, money and clothes the Maytag way. Maytag NOW makes a Model F, (not illustrated) that sells for less than $110. Model G, with inbuilt gasoline Multi-Motor, for Jess than $140. Washer, Maytag Now Makes The New Maytag Table Ironer saves additional time and labor each week, Use it wherever there is an electric wall plug. The only ironer with the oe even-heating Alakrome ThermoPHONE for a trial washing or ironing in your home. If the Maytag doesn't sell itself, don't keep it. Divided payments you'll never miss. MAYTAG INTERMOUNTAIN CO. Distributors When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 211 South State Street Salt Lake City AZAZINE Volume XVIII AUGUST, 1931 No.8 RECREATION Quality Education for Utah Students pba bb ahh hbp bh bah hpbiiiiiy TAHNS are thoroughly appreciative of the high educational stand- [ ards maintained by the state's highest institution of learning. This fact is attested by the constantly increasing enrollment, so that there are now more students at The University of Utah than in all other institutions of higher learning in the state. Certainly quality work has attracted the additional students. HIGHEST SCHOLASTIC STANDARDS are rigidly enforced, so that University of Utah credits are fully accepted every-where in the educational world. All fully qualified students will be welcomed and wil! Receive the best the state has to offer in educational work. A broad curriculum presented by a faculty of broad and excellent training. Amid truly educational surroundings is the offering to those students who are interested in obtaining a University education of high quality. REGISTRATION DATES Freshmen students must send in an application blank, and have their credits sent in as soon as possible. Freshmen who did not take the English and psychological examinations in the high schools last spring must be present September 23. All freshmen must register September 24, and attend special instructional classes September 25 and 26. Former students and transfer students from other universities must register September 28. Regular class work starts September 29. Make Your Plans Now to Attend Utah's Highest Institution of Learning School of Arts and Sciences School of Law "school of Education School of Medicine School of Mines and Engineering Schgol of Business Extension Division For Catalog or other information, Address, The President. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magesine L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear: No. 1 New style, ribbed lgt. Wet. No. 6 Light weight summer garcotton with rayon silk stripe. T soap 1 An excellent Ladies number..$1.25 ment. Ladies' new style... 95 No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. Wet. No. 7 Light wet., new or old style, cotton, our standard summer mercerized—silky finish.......... 1.75 wet......... 1.25 No. 8 Light weight Spring and NG Aiebed) =med aeaeecrton, Summer garment. Men only.. 1.00 bleached or unbleached. Our all season numbev...............::0000 1.75 No. 4 Ribbed heavy wet. Unbleached cotton. Our double back number..............: ccc2cccneeeeee 2.25 ' No. 10 Medium 'wet. Silk for men No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached.: jl Our best selling wool numand women, new style only. (GP con ooo 3.00 Non-Run ooieecececceceeceeeeeeeeeeeeteeeeee 1.95 No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only............... 1.00 In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid. Special] discount to missionaries. FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns. No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Cotton Non Run Rayon, Long Legs or Old No. 74 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Cotton... Style 2.00 No. 63 Lt. Med. Unbleached Double No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool.. 2.85 No. Backs TGA: i No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Wool.. 3.50 0. Ibbe e otton........ Fh ° No. 62 Ribbed! Med. Hvy. Bleached. 1.65 0 92 Silk and Wool.............. Cme oe Double Back o0..-.......0...-eeccec-ee 1.65 Non Run Rayon, Elbow and Knee WHITER ee SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight. Sizes above 48—20% extra. Marking 15c. Postage Prepaid. Special—When you order three pair of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on third pair only. "Sa, 36 SOUTH MAIN ST. Last th GARMENTS UNDERWEAR When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle... No. 577 Fine Cotton, Silk Stripe...... 1.19 No. 76 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Lisle............ 1.19 No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy, unbleached Lengthy onic eeeeeecteeeseeceseeeeeee 1.29 No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton, bleached 1.98 No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., unbleached Double Back ooo... C. Eeeeeeeeeeeeeel.98 No. 67 Med. Wt. Part Wool............ 1.69 8 oz. Heavy Duck 000.2... Eee eceeceeees 1.95 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. 18 August, 1931 No. 8 CONTENTS Trees and Mists of Timpanogos................020000005 aaFrontispiece Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest.............. C cece cece e ee eeeeeeeenes 427 To "Live Happy Ever After'......... 0. Cece ccc cece cenceElsie C. Carroll 429 Let the Home Shine Out (Poem)............. 0.000 eee eeeBertha A. Kleinman 434 Indian Paint Brush (Poem).......... 0... 0.000. Ce ceceAnnie Pike Greenwood 434 My Own Town (Poem)............. Cc cece cece e eee terete neeesKate Thomas 435 A String of Beads... Ccc ccc ccc cece eee eee nneesAnnie D. Palmer 436 Little Builders (Poem)............. Ccc cee ce eect ee cece eesEunice I. Gardner 440 Rural Adjustment in Czechoslovakia................000000: Thomas L. Martin 441 Babes-in-the-Woods.......... Ccc cc ee cece ccc eeee cece eeeeesRuth Moench Bell 446 Swift Current Falls, Glacier National Park............ 0... Ccc cece eee e eee 451 Mary B. Hamilton............ Cee ccc cece e eee eee ee eesHazel H. Greenwood 452 Living the Word of Wisdom...............2. Ccceeeee eee: Annie Clark Kimball 454 Doves of the Sea (Poem)......... 00. C ccc ccc cece teen etnaMinnie J. Hardy 455 How to Stage a Flower Show............ Cee cece eee eesMaud Chegwidden 456 A Pretty Fall Scene in Idaho....... Cece cece eee e ee een eens rene eens 458 HSIN ny STVIOYAS, GS HOMIOEIND 0 0 0 OSBIBISINID 6 0 0088 H500000000000000000¢Annie Wells Cannon 459 Notes from the Field............... MPIMIBI 0 000000000000008 TRE Ob occ cco 460 Notes to the Field......... Ccc ccc cece cette eet e nett eet e tee e neste eenes 464 Editorial—Worthy of Emulation.......... 0... Ccc cc cece eee cee eee eceeeeseeeees467 Let us Improve........ Cece cece cece cree te cece tent tect e trees etensestes 468 Our New Covers........ Cee cece cece eter eee eeenneeesoorune ss 468 Lesson Department........- cc ecee cece cee cece cere cnet tense etre teeteenee 469 Mysteries the Canyon Conceals............ Cece e ccc teee ee eceneeAnnie Tanner 483 A Grandmother's Lament..... 0.0.00... Cc cece cece ec tee eee ene eeesSusan Ray 484 All Day Outdoors (Poem)............ Cece ccc cee eee e eet eeeeHarry Neilson 485 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magaine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879, Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. C LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. The only sleep that really ''rebuilds'' the weary body is sleep on a good bed. And a good bed is possible only with a resilient, scientifically-constructed mattress. Such a mattress as Eberhardt's MOOREST: SLEEP Means REST on berhardts Cherian INNER SPRING ~—Mattreser Built around the famous Inner Spring, which is composed of 285 "'revitalized'' coil springs, lined in staggered formation by long helical wires all encased in strong calendared burlap. Then layers of downy long-fibre cotton felt and the beautiful hand-painted Art Ticking. AT YOUR DEALER'S (A Product of Utah Labor) SALT LAKE. MATTRESS & MFG. CO. LDS. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. And if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. 147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave........$1.10 32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt................. 1.5@ 208 Lt. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot... 1.35 222 Rayon Striped Combed Cot....... 1.65 258 Med. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot. 1.85 628 Mere. Lisle Lt. Wr... 2.00 98 Rayon Special... 1.25 When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, Sample on request. 284 Ladies' crepe rayon 1.90 264 Ladies' rayon silk 0.0... Cscs 2.00 805 Ladies' non-Dropstitch Rayon.. 2.00 267 Men's rayon silk ooo leeeceee 2.25 809 Men's non-Dropstitch Rayon...... 2.25 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt......... 2.00 1118 Wool and Cotton Mixed............ 3.50 N & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Training That Leads to BIGGER PAY PECIALIZED training in Secretarial Science or Business Administration will prepare you to earn a good living immediately and place you in line for advancement to a highly-paid executive position. Courses planned to suit previous education. Individual instruction. Placement Department assists graduates in securing positions. Because business firms are accustomed to depend upon us for office help, we receive calls regularly even during times of depression. When positions are available anywhere they are usually available through L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE. For further details describing oppor- { tunities in business, courses of study, 4 etc., write or call at our office for a free catalog. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Announcement, 1931 HE General Board conducts the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Memorial Poem Contest annually. Two prizes are awarded —a first prize consisting of $20, and a second prize consisting of $10. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Other poems of merit not winning special awards, receive honorable mention. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, and to pay for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Relief Society Magazine, and closes October 15. Rules of the Contest 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written. 4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. Only one side of the paper should be used. 6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 7. Statement should accompany the poem that it is entered in the contest. 8. The contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 9. Members of the General 3oard, and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest. 10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 11. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15. 12. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 20 Bishop's. Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Courtesy of Dr. Walter Cottam TREES AND MISTS OF TIMPANOGOS THE Relief Society Magazine Vor. XVIII AUGUST, 1931 No. 8 To "Live Happy Ever After" By Elsie C. Carroll HE old-time novel used to carry its readers through the sunshine and shadow of the courtship of its hero and heroine, successfully getting them through the various obstacles and misunderstandings of the wooing-time, and up to the altar. Then the book closed with the satisfying statement: "and so they were married and lived happy ever after." If we judge by the number of divorce cases that are being filed every day, we may logically wonder if they did "live happy ever after." We shouldn't like to regard romance as ending with marriage; rather we like to think of it as really beginning. If that is the case it takes more than a marriage ceremony to assure a smooth sailing sea of matrimony. Unless marriage is founded upon the right basis, unless the participants understand both the need of keeping that basis sound and the manner of so-doing all the ceremonies in the world cannot assure continuous happiness. Not long since I was shocked to learn_of the divorce of a couple I knew twenty years ago, whe at that time seemed ideally mated and more than ordinarily happy. The lusband had claimed the divorce on the grounds of incompatibility. My interest in them caused me to do some serious thinking along the line of what it takes to assure continuous happiness in married life. Later I shall return to the case of my early friends. Now I would like to present what seems to be some of the essentials for happy marriage. E H. GRIGGS points out in one e of his little volumes on the art of living, that "The little world of personal relationship is always the heart and soul of the larger world of action." It is in our relation to other persons that we experience our highest joy and our bitterest sorrow. There are many phases of personal relationship, but that which binds two people into one, tle marriage relation, is the closest of all and can produce as its fruit the greatest good or the greatest evil; it can lead to the heights of bliss or to the depths of misery. A are certain laws or principles upon which this relationship must be based if it is to fulfill 430 its greatest possibilities. First of all there must be a sound moral quality in both parties to this relationship. Real love and lasting happiness cannot exist if either the man or the woman is lacking in sound moral fiber. That a certain degree of love would not maintain even though one or the other of the married couple should develop flaws in character, and serious flaws at that. We are all famillar with cases where a wife has remained true and loyal to a disreputable husband and has stood by him in the most degrading and humiliating circumstances. Love of a certain degree may remain, but certainly not happiness. To insure permanent happinesss, then, one essential element is to build and keep in repair a strong moral character. JOE element of continuous happiness is that of likeness of personality. That is, in certain fundamental tastes and interests the man and woman must be alike. If one is deeply religious and the other is not, there will be a likelihood of unhappiness. If one loves children and the other does not, happiness cannot be assured. If one is fond of an active social life and the other prefers recreation of the outdoor type, there may be a lack of harmony; or if one deeply loves literature, music, and art and the other sees nothing of value beyond the practical phases of life. While it is essential that the husband and wife be alike in their fundamental ideals and tastes, they will find greater happiness if they are unlike in many of the minor aspects of personality. If they are alike in the essentials, then the more unlike they are in things that do not matter, the more they have to give to each other. This does not mean - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In one of the happiest homes I know the husband is thoughtful and serious, he has difficulty in expressing himself, and shrinks from social ' contacts, though he knows that they are important. His wife is lively, has a keen sense of humor, is a splendid conversationalist. Each admires the other for what is lacking in his own personality and they complement each other perfectly. VAR OTHER essential for happiness in married life is what Griggs terms community of experience. It means that the two must share not only the little duties and economies of everyday life, but they must face the more "supreme annunciations of birth, death, joy, achievement, failure'—together. Recently a young man was sent to the penitentary for appropriating funds which did not belong to him. During the trial certain facts came out which indicated that the wife was even more guilty than he. She wasn't facing our present periad of depression fairly with her husband. Even though she knew his employer had found it necessary to cut the wage schedule in his company. She made no changes in her expenditures. She still required as much as before for clothing, for marcells and other personal expenses. She made no differences in the kind of food she bought nor in her methods of preparing them. She still expected to be taken to shows and dances and resorts as often as formerly. Because of this lack of "community of experience," a lack of sympathy and understanding which comes from facing together the steep hills of life as well as the sunny valleys, the couple were drifting apart and the young man feeling that it was all his fault because he could not give his wife the things he thought he TO "LIVE HAPPY EVER AFTER" should give her, was tempted to steal. ' ee law of growth is another essential to permanent married happiness. One writer has said that to keep the love of one's life-comrade, one must win it over again every. Day. Love must be nourished and cared for as a plant if it is to live and flourish. An unhappy married man recently remarked that his wife was no more the woman he married than an entirely different person. Perhaps he was just as different from the man she had married. We all change as life goes on. The trouble with this couple was that they had not changed together. They had let their individual differences become more dominant. They had lived under the same roof, but they had less and less as the years went by shared their experiences. They had failed in little sacrifices and courtesies to each other and so their love had died from want of proper care. OYALTY is another foundation stone in the happy marriage relation. Loyalty has been defined as holding faithfully to every significant bond established between one's own spirit and another's life. In true loyalty there is no pretense. Love is too precious to be blemished by any element of insincerity. Loyalty means recognizing the worth of another and standing by that other in times of stress as well as in times of ease and pleasure. "Loyalty demands the recognition, with equal frankness, of what is passing, as of what is permanent, in a relationship." True loyalty was demonstrated by a wife whose husband, not himself because of a temporary physical derangement which was not serious 431 enough, he thought, to cause him to lay off work, became irritated at his employer and said things which cost him his job. Though the situation was serious, the young wife realized that under ordinary circumstances the thing would never have happened. Her husband, disgusted with himself, but too proud to admit he had been at fault, expected only reproof from his wife and was ready to defend his stand at the cost of a family quarrel. To his surprise his wife did not blame him, but tenderly coaxed him to go to bed where he should have been for several days. Later she quietly slipped away and called upon the employer. She made a simple explanation of the situation, neither criticizing nor upholding her husband, but revealing facts the employer was glad to know and showing a type of wifely loyalty which. Caused him to restore the job to the husband. ERHAPS, aside from the first law mentioned as essential to married happiness—that of moral soundness—there is none more significant than what has been termed the law of independence of, personality. One must be able to Staud alone to be worthy of a deep relationship with another life. "The moment one becomes an echo or a satellite of one's friend, the power is lost to give and take friendship. The answer to the need of the spirit can only come through the refreshing meeting with another independent, self-centered personality, able to reach out from that center, and give and receive in the great experiences' of life." If this is true of friendships, how much more it is true of the relations between a husband and wife. In the case mentioned at the beginning of this discussion, the incompatibility which caused the sep- 432 aration of this once ideally mated man and woman had grown out of a misdirected sense of loyalty on the part of the woman, which finally robbed her as well as her husband of what life promised them. In their youth the girl had been not only exceptionally pretty, but also unusually bright. It was a wellknown fact in our little country school that Madge used to help Phil with his English and history lessons. Constantly she was urging him to try for beter grades. Even when they were children she was more interested in his success than in her own. They were married the summer after their graduation from high school. Madge was determined that Phil should go to college. The parents of neither could help them, but upon her suggestion, they chose a school which offered good premedical courses and set out for it. He secured a part-time position as janitor and she assisted their landlady with laundry work and cleaning. After a time she succeeded in increasing her earning power by means of her needle. She was clever at making over children's clothes and by persistent effort worked up quite a little business in this line. Then she persuaded Phil to devote all his time to studying, since her earnings were enough to pay their bills. They paid only for bare necessities, however. There was no money for pretty clothes, nor for the concerts and lectures Madge would have enjoyed so much. Neither was there enough to pay for an extension class she would have liked to take. In four years Phil graduated with honors. By that time they had a two year old baby and were expecting another; but Madge was keeping on with her work and she was urging RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Phil course. Since it would be less expensive for her to stay at home, and since she had now her regular sewing customers, Phil went east to finish his course without her. After three years of regular work and a year's interneship, he returned, a brilliant and polished young physician. Their second child was nearly four years old. During the immediate years that followed she kept on with her work while he was getting his practice established, going through the socalled "starvation period." During this time two more babies were born. Gradually Phil became more and more widely known. He was invited to join a hospital staff in a larger city. He could afford to buy a good home, and drive a fine car, and he was invited to join the best social groups. By this time, so friends have told me, Madge was a little faded, lifeless creature, entirely unfitted for the new life now open to her. She had remained the wife in the background so long, that she was not able to come to the front of the picture. Her husband and her children for whom she had drudged and sacrificed were living in a world she did not know how to enter. And sco the tragic ending to a relationship which held unusual promise for happiness. And how easily this wrecked happiness might have been saved. If only Madge and Phil could have sensed these fundamentals for continuous happiness and had planned and worked their future out together on a firm basis, she might have kept abreast with him intellectually instead of allowing her personality to become narrow while his was expanding. Toward his post-graduate TO It is a mistake too many women make. They want to give all they have. They forget that they are giving the most cherished thing they could give when they preserve and develop their own individualities. Too often the woman feels that she must immolate herself on the altar of domestic happines3. If she has a talent, she feels that -he must put it aside. If she is intereste:! In painting, music, in some intellectual public work, she feels that she must abandon it or she will be neglecting her home life. Even in the busiest years of a married woman's life, if she has the right understanding of the basis of happiness, she will cultivate a variety of interests; she will treasure and develop her talent, knowing that the time and money she is spending on her own personality is the greatest gift she can give to her family. Too often women who sacrifice themselves blindly, awaken years afterward to find their children selfish and their husbands ungrateful. True sacrifice is that which serves the best good of all, and it is most assuredly to the best good of the entire family for the wife and mother to keep herself physically fit and mentally and spiritually abreast with the other members of the family. A RRIACE rests upon two distinct foundations, the biological and the spiritual. To be assured of success, there should be in every marriage a physical attraction, and the elements which make for mental and spiritual companionship. As years go on the strength of the first bond becomes less and less. Then it is doubly important that men and women see to it that the second bond grows stronger. If husbands and wives would fairly face this need of consciously protecting and fostering "WieeerarPY EVER AFTER" 433 those things which make for lasting home harmony, much of the world's heart-break could be averted. What greater happiness can be conceived than that of knowing one person dearer to you than your ownself—one breast into which you can pour every thought, every grief, every joy! True marriage gives you such a companion—one who, "Sf all the rest of the world were to calumniate or forsake you, would never wrong you by a harsh thought or an unjust word, who would cling to you in sickness, in poverty, in care; who would sacrifice all things to you, and for whom you would sacrifice all; whose smile is ever at your hearth; who has no tears while you are well and happy. Such is marriage, if they who marry have hearts and souls to feel that there is no bond on earth so tender and so sublime." That is, we might add, if they will use commonsense in recognizing the fact that those relations do not rest upon some magical metamorphosis which comes with the marriage vows, but upon a set of practical, everyday laws or principles which must be recognized and adhered to. "The beauty of love lies in no false illusion of perfection, but in the growth together of two imperfect personalities." In every married life it is true there will be ups and downs, lights and shades. We cannot always live on the heights. There must be lowlands to make us appreciate the heights. "A period of quiet waiting must precede and follow every chapter of exalted experience * * Great living means being true to the vision when we no longer behold it, carrying it loyally across the desolate plain and even through the valley of shadows, in the certain faith that the hills will rise again 434 and we shall ascend them, and again behold the vision of life, still and clear at our feet." To keep the vision of ideal happiness one must try to maintain in married life a fine courtesy in the intimate relations of this bond. It is frequently the neglect or abandonment of the little courtesies of life that turns the thoughtful lover into a selfish, complaining husband, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and converts the gentle, sweetvoiced bride into a slatternly, nagging wife. Only by recognizing such findamental principles as these I have tried to indicate, can marriage, the most difficult, yet the most sacred of all personal relationships be made the sacrament it should be; only so may those who assume its bonds hope to "live happy ever after." Let the Home Shine Out By Bertha A. Klienman There's a glow that lights the cities, And it streams across the plain, It's the lighthouse on the main, Its the beacon on the hillside, Its the lamp that lights the pathway For the million feet that roam, Its the glimmer in the window, Its the candle-gleam of home. Chorus Keep the dark blinds lifted Keep the lace folds rifted, All without the paths of men are dim with doubt, Hearts that yearn for homing, Need your fire-side gloaming, Keep the dark blinds lifted— let the home shine out. There's a trust that never wavers, In the hallowed atmosphere, There's a prayer each day absolving, Though you wander far or near; There's a shrine at every hearthstone, For the longing hearts that roam, Be it tented cot or palace—it's the Sacred shrine of home. Indian Paint Brush By Annie Pike Greenwood Seldom in the valley;— You blush upon the hill, And where there is a mountain You climb up higher still. Some have called you coxcomb After garden things; So they label insects All with fairy wings. Secretly I name you Inspiration flower: In the common daytime Comes the sacred hour; So your common green leaves Change to glowing red; No longer common verdure, You lift your happy head. Like your green, my wild flower, Starts the dullest day; Comes my song, and blossoms To red, so glad and gay. My Own Town By Kate Thomas When I'm walking down the street, the streets of Salt Lake City, All the houses say hello, and all the trees are pretty. My own town, my home town, sprawly, gauche and slow, But some sweet charm is over it, whichever way you go. Up along the boulevard you thrill on looking down; Green of every loveliness, never such a town! Here are clumps of sunflowers, there the inland sea, And the sky, the sky, the sky! Could it fairer be? Yon's bald-headed Ensign Peak, always with his brag on; Squat old man who lunks at ease nodding at the dragon That lies along the Wasatch rim, harmless, tricky, bold, Open-eyed and sleepy-eyed like Fafnir guarding gold. Calm at night the windows light soft signals to the highland, Gaudy signs flash out their call, quite like Coney Island. My home town, my own town, nestled in a bowl With lots of things that ruffle you, but lots to cheer your soul. Close on West North Temple, beneath a cloudy moon Is a wharf and piling place, we'll be coaling soon, The smokey old church-chimney forms the funnel of the boat, It's puffing black is on the air and now we are afloat. My home town, my own town, I gaily wave good-bye But I'll be steaming back again some day before I die. Purple stands the Oquirrh range 'gainst scarlet, gold and green, Sunsets such as Utah boasts are rarely ever seen. My own town, my home town flaming near and far When the artist Autumn spills all the paints that are. My home town, my home own home town, lives ever in my mind Its noble mountains are so brave, its people are so kind. My home town, my own town, hurried, worried slow, But some sweet charm hangs over it no matter where you go. A String of Beads By Annie D. Palmer NLY twenty-five cents! Sure- () ly there must be some mistake. Those lovely cherry colored beads were never intended to sell for a quarter! Janet Major doubted that she could tell the difference if they were laid on the same tray with those at three dollars in a jewelry store window. The young wornan had spent hours window shopping in the hope that somewhere she would see x dress cheap enough to warrant her offering a dollar down and a half dollar a week. Margie Rrown had asked her to go to a dance tonight with Margie and Joe. And Janet had promised. Immediately there had come up the question of clothes. Not that there should be a question. She had only one best dress, the same one that had done service for the last three years. She had hemmed it up twice, and then let the hem down and faced it. She had taken the sleeves out, sewed them back in, and finally cut them off. She had put a black collar on it and then a white one. It was still the same old dress, and looked positively hideous to her. She had called it Mauve when it was new; now it seemed to have no color at all, just a'dull, drab, neutral thing, with no distinction but the oldness. Janet wasn't very sure about red being the best color of beads to wear with it; but the red was bright and seemed to her to give an added sparkle to the deep brown of her eyes. At any rate the beads were pretty—and new. She held them against her bosom and was satisfied with the combination. But there was only a dollar in her poor little purse. Baby Jane needed shoes, and the three other youngsters, underwear. When it came to that, what did the youngsters not need? Dan had been so long without work that she had quit asking him whether or not he had found a job. His father had been paying the rent for months; and an agency had provided milk, groceries, and coal. Janet had gone out for a day occasionally when work was offered her, but the little she earned seemed to go nowhere on the upkeep of clothes and household needs. She put the beads down with a sigh and started away. "Yes, they are a real bargain," she heard the little Kress girl saying to another customer. "Our salesman got a splendid buy on them by taking the entire stock." Janet walked around the table slowly and came back on the other side. There were some nearly as good looking for a dime. But No. She could not bring herself to be so cheap. Dan would laugh at her. In all probability she would have a day's work Monday. Anyway the children would all be put to bed before she left them tonight in care of Dan. "May I help you?" asked the young salesgirl for about the sixth time. And then, "Twenty-five out of a dollar," as she handed the dollar bill to her co-worker at the cash register. "Twenty-five out of a dollar!" the words fell heavily on the heart of the woman and continued to repeat themselves even after she boarded the street car and was on her way A STRING OF BEADS home. 'Twenty-five out of a dollar!" Having slipped the beads over her head at the time of purchase she now fingered them nervously. She had grown so accustomed to sacrificing everything for the children that this foolish expenditure made her feel like a criminal. And yet—well, she was only a month past thirty, and all her life she had adored red beads. A woman doesn't outgrow these little vanities easily. Dan was home when she arrived, and was just making a fire with the last bucket of coal. The children were all standing around him discussing the very important subject of what they were to have for supper. As their mother entered she heard Della say that a tramp had come while they were alone, and that because she was afraid she had given him four big slices of bread and butter. "An' mother," reported Amelia with pathetic concern, 'Dick an' that boy across the street et a whole loaf of bread and all the jam, an' didn't give us even a bite. An' I'm as hungry as a mule!" "Hush up! And let me get in the house before you pull it down about my head," scolded Janet. "I wonder if you'll ever learn to take care of things when I leave the house! What business have you feeding tramps and neighbors when we have nothing for ourselves?" "Well I don't care— Della. "If you can't hush, please go in the other room!" the mother commanded in desperation. "Della explained that she was afraid," Dan suggested calmly. "Perhaps she could do no better than she did." "Of course. Everyone does what is best but me," snapped Janet. "I 99 began 437 suppose you're doing the best you can, too." "God knows I'm trying to get a job, if that's what you mean," he answered. "T mean that if you can't do anything else you can stay at home and keep the tramps away. I'm sick and tired of the racket, trying to make ends meet on nothing!" "Even at that you can spend money on gewgaws to satisfy your vanity. It doesn't look very well when we can't buy food." "Meaning this miserable string of beads, of course! But I didn't use your hard earned money to buy them, my dear man; and let me tell you right now that I intend to use mine for what I darn please!" "Oh, it's quite all right! A mother should spend her money on finery while her children starve if that's the way she feels about it." Mrs. Major took the beads from her neck and flung them into the fire. Then she sat down and indulged in a fit of weeping. Dan took his hat and went out. The children stood looking at the open fire in amazement. "You don't want them nasty beads, do you mother? Nobody wants 'em I'll say!" Amelia patted her mother's hand as she offered the remark she thought would be comforting. "Hush up!" commanded Della. "Them wasn't nasty beads. It was what dad said 'at was nasty. Cross old dad! I'm gonta buy some beads too, when Miss Mason pays me fer tendin' her kids, an' I'll let mother wear 'em all she wants to." "Why don't you give 'em to her, stingy?" questioned Dick who was now poking the fire where the beads had disappeared. "T hain't no stingier'n you be, Dickey. An' maybe I can buy 'em for her birthday." 438 The heart of the mother was so full of the bitterness of poverty that she hardly heard and heeded not at all either promises or comments of the youngsters. In her mind a battle royal was raging. It was waged between Dan's criticism on the one hand and her mother conscience on the other. "How could Dan be so unreasonable as to make a fuss about such a trifle?" Thus the argument. "But he did not know the cost. He only knew the children were hungry and there was no food." "Tt's his place to provide food. He promised that when I married him. And I earned the money I spent for beads." "Tf Dan had a job—" "The same old story. I've heard it so long it's hateful! I can't remember whether he ever had a job. What I do know is that this quarter is the first one I've spent on myself in the last three years. And I'm treated like a criminal for that!" "Dan is so worried about the children." "Let him manage the children if he can do it better. I'm sick of the whole thing. It's one eternal grind of poverty, with nothing else in sight as long as I live with him! What does he care how I look, or where I go, or when I come! It can't go on! It just can't!" "Mother, I'm hungry. Ain't we gonna have any supper?" The mother of four cannot cry for long unless she postpones it until after bedtime. The Major children were indeed hungry. Besides, they were not accustomed to seeing their mother in tears. Being thus called by her son to face realities, she understood the situation and called a truce with her harrassed mind to hastily set about the making of a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE vegetable soup to feed the famishing household. Meanwhile Dan walked. He had nowhere to go. He had exhausted every resource in the search for work. He blamed himself bitterly now for what he had said. It never could have happened if he had not felt so tired and weak. Of course Janet was hungry and tired, too. How could he, a big burly man, realize how much a bit of personal adornment could mean to a woman? How she must love to dance! Yes, he remembered. She had often told him in the years gone by, that she would rather dance than eat. And she had sacrificed so much, and still must sacrifice! And here he was leaving her to her burden instead of trying to help and comfort her! He turned about, resolved to ask her forgiveness for what he had said, and to buy her some beads with the first five dollars he might earn. (ee grew worse and worse with the Major family as the winter advanced. Mr. Major walked the streets day after day in the vain search for work. He was one of hundreds doing the same thing. Mrs. Major spent every penny she could earn on necessary underwear, hose, and shoes for the children. When not working away from home she mended and remodeled things until it seemed she could devise no more shifts. Never were the beads mentioned since the day she bought. Them for the dance she did not attend. When she and her husband kissed and forgave each other after the quarrel, they closed that chapter forever. But there was an outside version. As has been stated the family depended upon an agency for food. Months after the unfortunate purchase in the Kress store it came as a A STRING OF BEADS report to the Welfare agency concerned. "Oh, yes, it's true. Of course it is. A woman that knows Mis' Major told me herself. I guess you must 'ave give her two dollars or somethin' to buy food; an' the very next day she went up town an' got her some beads an' things. I think folks like her ought to have some one buy things to eat for the kids instead of givin' her money when she don't know what to do with it." "T've always thought her rather thrifty and—" "Well, maybe you call it thrifty. But as for me, I don't calculate to help folks buy no jewelery. I can't afford none o' them things myself, an' I ain't a askin' help neither." "Maybe beads mean more to Mrs. Major than to you. Maybe she has wanted that particular trifle for a long time. Maybe the touch of brightness appealed in a way she could not resist. Maybe—" 'Yes, an' maybe she ain't got very much sense. Anyway, I'll spend my own money, and let them as. Wants to, donate theirs to buy beads an' sich foolishness. If you're gonta allow that, you needn't ask for none o' my help." Had it not been for Della, this episode might have finished the story. But there came a day when Della tended a baby for a woman who paid her. Ever since the suggestion of a birthday present for her mother had come to her, the child had hoped she might get a chance to earn an extra dime. Often she had stopped in the Kress store and looked at the cherry red beads and asked the price of some that she thought exactly like the ones her mother had bought. Many times she had included in her whispered prayers the petition that she might earn enough money to buy them. Once in a 439 dream she held them in her hands. And now the dream had come true. It wasn't mother's birthday, but she could play it was. Birthdays come so slowly. She could not wait. When she was nearly home she took the beads from the little paper bag to have a fond look at them in the sunlight. "Mercy, child! Where did you get them fine beads?" "I bought them for mother, grandma. Ain't they lovely?" "You bought them did you? Well, well!" Della knew her grandmother Major was not pleased when she said, "Well, well" in that tone of voice; but the child could not know why Grandmother Major turned when they reached the corner and went in another direction instead of on home to talk with father. Della ran to her mother and was clasped in loving but trembling arms. Her father smiled approval. He did not say anything. A moment later his big arms enfolded both the child and her mother. Grandmother Major hurried to the office of the relief agency, and within a half hour was making her report. "The fact of the matter is," she was concluding, "you must make some other arrangement about the rent. My son's wife is an extravagant creature, with no care how she gets her finery so she gets it. It's very well for you to stick up for her, but if she can let them little girls run to the store for beads she can pay the rent. I was not brought up that way, and I shall not continue to support any one so senseless." "Janet works so hard, Mrs. Major, and has so little!" "All the more reason for her bein' savin'. Folks that has to be helped don't need silk stockin's nor beads—" 440 "T have given her some silk stockings that were considerably worn. She repairs them beautifully." "It teaches her extravagance, her an' the girls, too. She can pay her own rent. I don't know what the young an' risin' generation is comin' to, the way they spend. If things continue at this rate they won't have rags to cover themselves before long. I can't be responsible, that's all, an' I won't. I'm sure Dan's father will feel the same as I do, so from now on it's you for the rent. Goodbye!" The astonished young woman of the agency sighed heavily as she wondered if Dan's father could really be made to so magnify the trifling vanity. It occurred to her that in the educational campaign they were trying to put over, there was need to stress the fact that folks who need are still folks; that their hearts rejoice in each other's well-being and find joy in each other's happiness. She knew how watchful are the eyes of neighbors once the tongue of adverse criticism wags. She realized that the agency depended upon the generosity of neighbors for its financial support. Hers must be the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE task of interpreting human need in terms of heart-throbs, both to the contributing neighbor, and to the narrow minded parents of Dan. If only she might speed the lesson home as it had come to her. The discovery of a heart condition is one story; how a great change was wrought is another. Before spring they came together to the office of the relief agency, the contributing neighbor and the mother of Dan. "Put me back on the contribution ledger," said the neighbor. "TI reckon you was right an' I was wrong as usual. Here's my check for the payment I missed." "T think you may close the case of Dan," concluded Dan Major's mother. "Father and I have decided the family is our responsibility. "With the children and the extravagant wife?" asked the executive secretary. "The only extravagant thing I've ever heard about Janet was that string of cherry colored beads," said grandmother Major, "and I'll be hanged If I'm dead sure about that!" Little Builders By Eunice I. Gardner In the sandpile under my window Where my little twin girls are at play— I can hear their sweet childish prattle All through the long summer day. They are building towers and bridges And cellars and caverns deep; And beautiful, peaceful valleys By mountains so wide and steep. O, wonderful things are occurring In that sandpile day after day—- Things mere mortal man cannot fathom Which pass under the guise of play. O, dear little innocent builders, My God help you to build well Such Temples of worth that His Spirit May ever within your hearts dwell. Rural Adjustments in Czechoslovakia By Thomas L. Martin, Agronomist, Brigham Young University OST Americans know surM prisingly little about the interesting new republic in the central and eastern part of Europe called Czechoslovakia. If you read the papers carefully a few years ago, you may recall that out of the ruins of the Austrian Empire there were a few new nations created. Bohemia, the inhabitants of whom are known as Czechs, the little provinces of Silesia, Moravia, and Slovakia together with a little of Russia, Poland, and Hungary constituted the material out of which the Czechoslovakian nation was made. For many centuries in this geographic area a number of different races have existed. The Czechs and Slovaks have predominated and have always been characterized by their independent democratic spirit. At various times they have worked for religious and civil liberty, but unfortunately stronger powers have held them under subjection. Particularly were they oppressed by the Austrians. Fortunately for them, however, the end of the Great War brought to a finish the subjugation by enemy powers which had been in existence for many centuries. This countrv consists of an area of 55,000 square miles (two-thirds the size of Utah) and a population of 18,900,000 people. About 12,- 000,000 are ''Czechoslovaks; 3,000,- 000 Germans and the rest are Russians, Hungarians, etc. After the war the beginning period of the new republic was very vigorous, although about a million and a half of the inhabitants left the country, first because of the instability of the country, and second, because there was nothing for them to do. Thousands emigrated to the United States. However restrictions on immigration to the United States, and the passing of agricultural laws making more favorable conditions for farmers there had. The effect of checking emigration. At present the people appear to be doing better and many of the Czechoslovakians are returnihg to the homeland. HE founders of this new republic had vision. One of their first activities was a Land Reform movement. Large estates had been owned by their hated conquerors as well as some few rich people of their own blood. Before the war nearly seventy per cent of the agricultural land was in possession of these wealthy landlords and the rest, consisting of five and one-half million acres, was in the hands of the citizens themselves. The first law passed by the new republic was known as the land reform law. This took the land from the owners after they were paid a pre-war price, equivalent to about one-sixth of the value at the time the law was passed. The land was then apportioned out to the farmers and sold to them on long time contracts. The method of selecting the farmers for the land was interesting. A committee consisting of scientific experts, economists, successful farmers, and some government officials was formed. The applications sent in by prospective buyers were studied by this committee and judgment passed on the basis of the applicant's past experience, his service 442 in the army, kind and number in family, etc. The method used for selecting proved a wise one, and the farmers are practically all making good. There have been 500,000 farmers placed on new land in the last eleven years. Not only have these farmers been placed on land but they have been provided with expert help. A reform in the school system has also been made. Children go to the elementary school for six to ten years. At any age varying between ten to eighteen they may go to the gymnasium school, something like our vocational schools, which fits them with the general training for life. This is followed by high school training during the years from eighteen to twenty-two, during which time they secure training in the technical branches. A number of agricultural high schools have been erected. These agricultural institutions are equivalent to our own agricultural colleges. At present there are over one thousand students in Czechoslovakia receiving a four year college course leading to a college degree, which fits them for practical work in agriculture. Every student must spend three days a week for two years in practice farming. Here they are taught the idea of putting everything they learn into practice. Dairying, poultry raising, crop raising, etc. Are taught. From these colleges the students go out to the farms to put their education into practice. In addition to this training the farmers get expert help. There are laboratories in which the best kind of farm equipment is determined. There are experiment farms in which plant breeding is done. The best pit silos for the farmer and the best material for silage purposes are studied. The expert in charge makes it very plain RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to the visitor that the whole purpose is to demonstrate the practical. There are three large experiment farms in Czechoslovakia as well as numerous small demonstration farms. At these large experiment farms, excursions are conducted every Sunday for the benefit of the farmers. There the expert explains results obtained. At Prague, the capitol city of Czecholsovakia, there are breeds of-dairy cattle, not the choicest breeds as one would expect, but the breeds native to Moravia and other hilly countries. Experiments are carried on to indicate what can be done with the native stock. Wild horses are kept on display and used for various purposes to show the farmers what may be done with the wild horse, of which there are many | in the country. Redclover, sunflower, corn and beet tops are the subjects of extensive experimentation and their value when siloed in pit silos determined. Corn and barley are used for stock feed experiments.. While I was there 100 Chester White pigs were being tested and the kind and amount of feed used and gains carefully recorded. All modern machinery together with old hand labor tools are compared. Modern machinery is slowly making headway, but while money is scarce and labor cheap this progress will be slow. There is a research building in progress, built upon modern lines and equipped with modern apparatus for making technical studies of the agricultural problems of the nation. Soil surveys are being made of all the areas of the state. Determinations of the physical conditions of the soil, the fertility needs and crop adaptability, are being studied intensely. Bacteria as a factor in soil fertility is receiving considerable at- RURAL ADJUSTMENTS tention. The experiments performed with the soil are recorded in the various areas and advice given for farming the particular areas. PeRE is an interesting Bureau of Agricultural Statistics and Organization. For the last ten years a record has heen kept of the farmers' income and outgoings. A fine system of bookkeeping on the farms is being inaugurated. About 1000 typical farmers in various parts of the nation have been selected for study in this interesting economic investigation. The number of animals, acres of land, acres of crop, labor, animals, crop yields, market prices, net and gross income, are taken into account. Progress reports are sent in every week. These reports are compiled and a summary returned to the farmer together with a comparison of the different areas in the nation, and a comparison with previous years, together with suggestions for improvement. This system of reports has had its effect upon the standards of living of the farmer, and it has been found that there is a steady improvement in average conditions. By this weekly check and weekly advice, monthly and yearly summary, the government has a wonderful check on her agriculture. She shows a paternal interest in her agricultural people. One and one-half million crowns, about $300,000, have been appropriated for this work yearly. Each farmer pays a small fee according to the amount of land he owns. A self governing public corporation known as the National Chamber of Agriculture has been organized for the protection of agriculture in the republic. Each county has its agricultural association for the protection of local interests. IN CZECHOSLOVAKIA 443 Expenses are covered by contribution as well as by 5 to 10% of land tax, and a subsidy from the government. Much agricultural seed is raised. For the protection of the growers as well as purchasers a seed control law was passed by the National Assembly on March 17, 1921. This law provides for official inspection, analysis, certification, and registration of original varieties developed by growers, and of seeds grown by them. The Ministry of Agriculture, charged with enforcement of law, appoints certifying commissions for various districts. Sugar beet seed, seed wheat and other grains are grown and certified and shipped all over the world. There is also an organization among the farmers and farm laborers. This is designed to promote agricultural production, and encourages bookkeeping, and it also supervises, distributes, and arranges for agricultural fairs. Animals form an important item in most of the Czechoslovakia farm enterprises. Manures are very carefully saved. Pits to conserve both the urine and solid excretion are very common and manure spreaders are growing in importance. On the better farms manure is applied on land every third year. They have not emphasized green manures for fertilizer purposes because rainfall is not too plentiful and fertilizers are relatively cheap. A definite system of rotation is carried on. Alfalfa is grown for two or three years, then sugar beets are planted, followed by barley, then wheat, sugar beets, and rye planted as a nurse crop for the alfalfa. When beets are not grown, potatoes and forage crops are grown in their stead. Corn is raised on a limited 444 area in the nation, particularly in its southern part. Agriculture has made great forward steps in Czechoslovakia due to her system of rotation and fertility. Conditions were bad in 1918. Soil was exhausted due to shortage of artificial manures, particularly nitrates and phosphorus. Supplies of barnyard manure were reduced due to the Austrian government taking the cattle during the war. The biological deficiency of exhausted soil and underfed cattle resulted in a gradual reduction in agricultural produce, yet her crops averaged well with the world. In 1924 the combined yield of wheat, rye, barley and oats in Czechoslovakia averaged 1392 pounds per acre as against 776 pounds in the United States. Their yield surpassed those of practically all of the rest of Europe. Wheat averaged 26 bushels to the acre while the United States averaged but 12. This rate of increase has been held steadily during the last ten years. Agricultural progress in Czechoslovakia has been due to hard work. By working early in the morning until late in the evening the agricultural classes have brought about improvement such that it has, with the art of the industrial worker created the "only fine island in the disturbed sea of Europe." One authority says that it is due only to the sound conservative sense of the agricultural class that in its first post war years of industrial disorganization and unemployment the social and economic balance of the republic was not disturbed. The farmers quickly adjusted themselves to pre-war status as soon as they regained their cattle and thus ensured the necessary supply of manure. The state helped the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE farmer to buy his commercial fertilizer at wholesale prices. This nation exports to foreign countries, barley, hops, sugar, alcohol, lumber. She imports flour from America, Hungaria, Roumania, and Poland. Corn and lard are imported. She is self supporting in cattle. There is a little irrigation carried on but it is very limited. Irrigation is needed in many sections but the price involved in creating such projects is prohibi- - tive at the present time. GUPEING from my own experience and _ observations, ithe Czechoslovakians are a very fine type of people. They are industrious, happy, courteous, honest, hardworking, liberty loving and appreciative. The United States stands as her ideal of a nation. She loves America and our people. President Woodrow Wilson is idolized. He is considered their great liberator, because of his efforts to give the Czechs and the Slavs their freedom. The largest railroad depot in the capitol city is named after Woodrow Wilson. It contains the engraving "The world must be made safe for democracy." Even today fresh wreathes are found at the foot of the monument. There is a Wilson Street, American Street, and a Hoover Street. The national colors are red, white and blue. Her constitution is patterned after the American constitution. The leaders of the republic knew they had a nation to build. Commercial industries are vital for this nation, but agriculture is more vital. Her leaders knew that to build a nation the rural life must not be neglected. Professor Dr. Ve Brdlik commenting on this says: "The Czech peoples are descendants of humble RURAL ADJUSTMENTS peasants. They differ from other western nationalities in that her civilization has not come from the bourgeoise of the cities, but out of the peasant classes. This peasant class has always been responsible for the resuscitation and rejuvenation of the oppressed Czech people. Whatever course Czech history may take in the future the Bohemian rural peoples will always provide farm ground for the Czech nation to rest on." "The natural laws of the land will always prove a firm link. IN CZECHOSLOVAKIA 445 From the relation between the land and his family the peasant has derived his conception of the home land and freedom of his nation. He is convinced that he has an invincible power to overcome all difficulties even if the reverse of history were to be unfavorable to him, if his nation will not turn away 'from native fields in order to engage in industry. For having once lost contact with the land the whole nation would go to ruin. Such is the intrinsic value of Czechoslovakian agriculture." Babes-in-the-Woods By Ruth Moench Bell ESCELINE was glad that the path from the gate to the house. Was along one. Dave's father had very wisely, for this occasion, set his house in the exact middle of his acre lot. Dave's father! Her father now! Whether the Blaynes knew it or not, whether they approved or not—and Lesceline had a quiet conviction that Mrs. Blayne did not approve—She and Dave were married. Soon, all too soon, the Blaynes would know. Oh, that blessed long, long walk. It was giving them a longer lease on their happiness. Lesceline looked up at Dave—and it was some distance to his eyes. He looked down at her and patted her hand, the hand she had slipped in his arm. His eyes said, 'Never mind, little woman. 'They shan't eat you up—not while I'm there.' Neverthe less, Lesceline detected a faltering in Dave's footsteps. He was probably wondering how he could explain to his family that he had decided not to go east and become a great architect—not right away. Lesceline did not know that at that precise moment the two most popular and spirited young people of Brixton College looked very much like two babes-in-the-woods, full of awe at this thing that they had done, full of wonder at the possibilities for disaster of this new world they found themselves in. In fact, it was David Blayne senior, ensconsed behind the heavy lace-curtained windows of the Blayne household, who had noted the resemblance to the 'Babes-in-the-Wood' and had _ so dubbed them. "They're married, Emily," he smiled, as he beckoned his wife to join him at the window. "Nothing else could make those two look like that. They're wondering how we're going to take it." "T know how I'm going to take. It,' Emily Blayne pursed her lips proudly, which was her way of icing her foes. '"She's ruined Dave's career. He'll never be an architect now." "Well," David Blayne chuckled, "T'm not so sure he was exactly coerced into it." Unconscious of the scrutiny and comments they were exciting, Lesceline and Dave, hand in hand now, walked wistfully toward the house —their expression imploring the world to let them be happy. ""She's frivolous, vain, extravagant," Emily Blayne breathed between tight lips. "Tt's a good thing this house is so far from the gate,' Daivd Blayne senior sighed. "You better go up to your room, Em, and get yourself in hand. Little Lesceline's not so bad. And she's Dave's choice—you know —our Dave's choice." "I'm not so sure she's Dave's choice." - "Well, even at that, he might have done worse if he'd done the choosing himself. Come away, Em, they're almost here." "Tf Lesceline could have been a daughter-in-law like—" "Every mother-in-law thinks she would have been an ideal mother-inlaw if only her particular daughterin-law had been different." He kissed his wife and hurried down stairs. "'I'll tell them you are bathing,' David whispered back. "Be BABES-IN-THE-WOODS nice to her—they're only young once." "I know what's due a guest," Emily cried proudly. "That's fine. Just treat her as a guest, that'll 'suit Lesceline all right." The hall door was opening with visible reluctance, the next minute; and Blayne senior's voice came booming down the hall. "Here, what have you two youngsters been up to?" Right then, Lesceline decided that she was going to like her new dad. She adored a sport and flung her arms about his neck with an affection that delighted father and son. Emily Blayne was less demonstrative in her greetings when she finally got herself in hand and allowed herself to be kissed and embraced by her son, and presented her cheek to be kissed by Lesceline. The daughter-in-law, every whit as proud and independent, brushed ever so lightly the cheek thus presented. Lesceline noticed that Mrs. Blayne listened with polite reserve while Dave gave enthusiastic plans for making millions without becoming a great architect at once. She was glad that she and Dave were leaving next day in Dave's roadster for Montana. A very little bit of polite reserve was plenty for Lesceline. David Blayne joined in their plans more heartily and gave them a wedding present of two hundred dollars to tide them along until Dave got his first million. "Now I can't send you another nickle,' he warned them laughingly, "this is the limit, so make it last till you get some more right in your hands." Mrs. Blayne offered bedding and cooking utensils so they could cook their meals at Auto Camps. But Dave burst out, "Great Scott, Moms, this is our wedding trip.. We're 447 going to the best hotels. Lesceline's not going to cook on our honeymoon." 'And besides it's good business to look successful,' Lesceline added. "Staying at good hotels and looking prosperous will give people confidence in us, and we'll be more likely to succeed." "T guess they're not so dumb," Mr. Blayne laughed. "They've got all their wits about them, Emily." "That's one thing I like about my new parents,' Lesceline confessed into this warmer atmosphere. "You don't call each other 'mother' and 'father'. You still keep your individuality. We're going to be Lesceline and Dave as long as we live. We're not going to let our children forget that we are real people, just as they are." "I'm glad she likes something about us, Emily," Blayne chuckled. "for I'm getting rather fond of my new daughter already." Lesceline and Dave promised to write frequently and frankly, as they got into their roadster the next morning. "A few years ago a young couple wanted a new home and a job when they started out" David Blayne joked. "Now if they have a marriage licence and a roadster they're doing fine." "And a college degree apiece, Dad, don't forget that,' Dave reminded him. "Not so bad, after all, do you think" Lesceline cried happily, as she waved back. David senior smiled to his wife, as together they waved to the youngsters going out so confidently to conquer the world. "J'll give them exactly one week," he laughed. "I admit that she seems more sensible than I thought," Mrs. 448 Blayne said, "but how about this talk of best hotels?" "Oh, they have their pride. We don't want them to break their pride. They know I won't send more money." "Tf she'd only left him alone till he'd gone east and got his degree in architecture," Emily sighed. "After all, what they will learn together may mean much more to both of them than any degree and waiting. They have the main business in life settled now, and they have each other and health and intelligence to work out their problems together." BuAXN E was right. It was not long before a letter came bringing word that the two were trying another town. The change was made about the time that Dave, losing his job at a service station, happened in at an unusual time at a certain cafe, and found Lesceline, looking like a million dollars, imperiously waiting on tables. "I thought you had lost all interest in cafes," she told him haughtily, a little piqued that he had surprised her at work. "You said you cared for nothing but hot dogs and hambergers." "T think that was about the time you began preferring apples and buttermilk to real meals," Dave countered. "Let's call it quits and get on with our career. I think we have enough to go on, now that we have lowered our lights." They were well along the 10ad when Dave remarked, "You know some of these Auto Camps are rather nifty, showers and all. And we could make ourselves a cup of chocolate for breakfast." "And get some cooked cereal and sometimes an egg and some fruit," Lesceline agreed with alacrity. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "And then we could have our darling car right under our window, so we could watch it all night. I'm always so afraid some one will steal it in a public garage." "Tt will save garage bills, too," Dave blundered, "what I mean is, fenders get jinned up in public garages. And you can't place the blame." Having the darling car right under their window, was not the unmixed joy Lesceline expected. Incidentally, they might have rested better if they could have backed the car into their cottage and tucked it in for the night. Then one or the other could have put a foot out from time to time to make sure that the car was still there, spare tires, motor and all. As it was, Dave really did not start up more than half a dozen times perfectly sure that he had heard some one making away with the spare tire. About the seventh time, when he jumped to his knees wildly, he collided with Lesceline, who had a sudden call to peer out of the window and make sure that the 'spare' was still there. Dave explained foolishly that he had dreamed some sort of nightmare, probably because of the late hamberger he had eaten. Towards morning, Dave rose with a shout, "They're jacking up our car to get our wheels." "I'm afraid they've got all four of them," Lesceline cried excitedly. "T hope they haven't lifted the motor out, too, 'Dave said feverishly, as he dragged his boots on. He came back rather sheepishly. "Everything's intact. But it's daybreak, and I think we better be getting on." Dave was about to suggest that they go home for a visit, but a hurried count of their resources showed him that even gas could not be as- BABES-IN-THE-WOODS sured. They might 'hock' the car, but something happened which made that unnecessary. 'When Lesceline had been at the wheel, Dave had liked to remind her that 'there is always another car just around the curve, and it will be on your side and making seventy per, so drive accordingly.' Lesceline would wrinkle up her nose and toss her head, remarking, "Also, every gun is loaded." It happened, however, that it was not Lesceline but Dave who was at the wheel when the other car sprang into existence just around the curve. According to formula, the car was on Dave's side and was doing, as near as anyone could estimate, fully seventy per. Asa mere bagatelle, it also transpired that Dave was 'stepping her up' pretty lively, though no one could tell exactly what the speedometer registered when the impact came. The 'Babes-in-the-Wood' title was not so inept, after all. "The robins so red' might easily have 'brought strawberry leaves and over them spread' had not an irate driver brought them to their senses. He was demanding to know 'what the Sam Hill they were doing over on his side of the road—and why Dave didn't let his girl drive if he couldn't do better than that.' Dave observed rather grogily that he though he had done pretty well, almost any other driver would have killed all three of them. "Where's our car?" Lesceline asked faintly, looking around at the unfamiliar scene. "My wrist feels awfully queer," she moaned. "Why is Dave looking so pale?" Dave looked around at the debris. '"What's the idea of the used car sale?" "Yes, what's the idea," the other accessory-before-the-fact snarled. 449 "Fortunately no bones were broken," Dave wrote home to his father. "And one can always get another ear." "Fortunately or unfortunately," Dave's father wrote back, "that chicken ranch I took a mortgage on in Idaho, has fallen into my hands. Now it happens that you two are not far from Dudley, and if you'll go over and try to save me from losing the whole works, I'll finance you till you can make a go of it, or until I can sell out and get the thing off my hands. I'm enclosing a check to get you there and tide you over. This should keep you going till you can get an egg check in, if what they claim for the place is anywhere near true." "We're on," Dave wired back. "Lesceline's game and we're both delighted." "Your mother and I will drive up. And sort of get you started," David Blayne wrote back. "And I'll give them about twenty minutes to chuck the whole thing," he remarked to his wife as he sealed the letter. "We'll give them the best fried chicken they ever ate," Dave proposed. "Don't," Lesceline laughed. "You are making me hungry. I could eat several myself." "The question is—can you fry them if I do the other acts," Dave asked. "T can after you get them rolled in flour and salted and peppered," Lesceline sighed daintily. "If I so much as see them at any of the other stages, I can't eat a bite." "Well, I'll go whack off their heads," Dave laughed. Lesceline put her fingers to her ears and hid in the closet at the sound of the first squawk. But she was a good sport and had the water " 450 boiling to scald them. After what seemed plenty of time, Lesceline emerged from the closet. "Are they washed, salted and floured." she finally called from the other side of the kitchen door. "Tl bring in some more wood," she added. She did not want Dave to think her unsportsmanlike. But she gave a shriek that rent the skies when she happened onto the severed heads at the chopping block. The sight of their blood-stained feathers filled her with horror, and she held her nose in dismay at the odor that. Was wafted from their scalded feathers. Lesceline happened in just as Dave was drawing them, not too expertly, and right then she decided that she would not care for any fried chicken. Even the sight of their white flesh as the pieces soaked in cold water prior to drying, salting, and flouring, was not reassuring to Lesceline. Dave's dad and mother arrived, very friendly and greatly surprised and delighted that these two should have settled down to realities' so swiftly. Lesceline could see that even Mrs. Blayne was mollified, though dubious about the venture being of long duration. The gracious greetings and the aroma of frying chicken whetted Lesceline's appetite and she picked daintily at the piece of white meat which Dave put on her plate, and soon she was eating as heartily as any one. "IT suppose Lesceline knocked their heads off?" Dave's dad joked. "She did not," Dave laughed. "Les ran and hid." "Always your mother's trick. I finally got her to pull out their feathers." "But 1 did not relish them after," Emily added. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Then I'll never ask Lesceline to do even that," Dave declared gallantly. "Who gathers the eggs?" Mrs. Blayne asked, not without purpose, as Lesceline could see. "Yes, you should have seen Les gathering them," Dave roared. "TI went out in time to see her poking at them with a stick and exclaiming coaxingly, not to mention threateningly, Now get right off, you big brute, get off those eggs.' " "T did not," Lesceline defended. "And then one hen pecked at her and Les dropped an egg. Of course all the hens made a dash for that egg as it smashed, so Lesceline uttered a shriek and dropped another egg. By that time I arrived with my plus twelves and managed to cover the two eggs, so the hens wouldn't get the taste and start egg stealing." Under the table, Lesceline was trying to locate Dave's generous 'plus twelves,' as he called them. But she could not find them to get the wireless over to him that he was showing her up in a rather bad light to her mother-in-law, who had her lips pursed tight again, and was obviously wondering what possible help her daughter-in-law would be: on a chicken farm. She heard Dave's dad defending her, after supper when she was busy with the dishes, and Dave was out taking the setters off the nest to lock them up and punish them for yielding to nature's dictates. "Oh, she'll be game, Emily." Lesceline heard his big booming voice saying, "wait till ther test comes. This is all new and different for Lesceline. She isn't domplaining about living miles from anyone. Remember she was one of the most popular girls at college—a Co-ed that BABES-IN-THE-WOODS went everywhere and was always the life of the party." Dave was coming whistling up the walk, so Lesceline did not hear Emily's response. After the visit, the place seemed ten times lonelier. Was Dave really so interested as he seemed, or did he see in this chicken ranch the chance to earn the money that would take him east to study? Lesceline wondered as she saw him immersed in poultry journals in the evening, or talking poultry with every man he could meet, on those trips to the Association in the 1918 Model Ford which had been left with the place. Lesceline strolled down to the hen house one evening when Dave had stayed extra long. She saw him cuddling a dove-like white pullet against either cheek. Strolling noiselessly to the house, Lesceline felt a new affection for Dave, a new insight into his nature and a new in- 451 terest in his interest. After that, she went often with Dave and liked to hear him talk to his hens. "See the nice clean saw-dust in your nests, girls," he would exclaim. "Now show your gratitude." He would tweak their beaks, as they peered at him drowsily from their roosts at night. Sometimes taking their heads between his hands roughly and affectionately, he would tease and joke with them, just as if they understood. "They're just like a bunch of girls,' he would laugh, "squealing and scurrying away over nothing whatever." Sometimes Lesceline fed them the 'scratch', She liked to hear the raucous chorus they sang in anticipation. Scattering the grain about, made her feel like a Lady Bountiful bestowing largess while they scrambled eagerly. (To be continued) SWIFT CURRENT FALLS AND GOULD GLACIER NATIONAL PARK Photo by Heilman MOUNTAIN, Mary B. Hamilton By Hazel H. Geenwood S we become intimately acquainted with the lives of the women of the Latter-day Saints we discover a great number of most 'interesting characters known and loved for their integrity, diligence, industry, faithfulness and sincerity. They have performed their part well and the story and history of our church would be incomplete without reference to their lives and accomplishments. Among this group may well be mentioned Mary B. Hamilton, born Jan. 6, 1865, in Mill Creek, where she has lived during her entire life time and where she has been and still is a leading member of the community. The Hamilton home has been a place where from my childhood I have spent many happy days. I learned to love and admire Aunt Belle for her devotion and attention to those who came within her influence. Especially did she make the principles and doctrines of the church a paramount subject in her instructions all of which have been made manifest in the lives of the children as they have grown to manhood and womanhood. Prayer, loyalty to the church and respect for the priesthood were never overlooked. Her parents, Martin White and Margaret Hill, were of German and Scotch descent and came to Utah in 1849. She commenced her education in the common schools and later took a Normal Course in the Brigham Young University graduating in 1885, and soon after began teaching. She taught for four years with marked success and was known as an entertainer and a clever reader. She married James C. Hamilton, who later became Bishop of Mill Creek Ward, where he presided for twenty-five years. ISTIER Hamilton was mother to nineteen children, nine of her own eight of whom are living and ten belonging to the first wife of her husband, who died leaving these children, the eldest a boy of fifteen and a baby three weeks old. In influencing these children she was successful in impressing them with the importance of individual responsibility in the duties of the home. And the community evidenced leadership and executive ability. Public problems affecting the home had her interest and support. Education and experience gave her a sense and appreciation of proper educational training and as much as possible was enjoyed by this family. HE church activity of this group has been remarkable, six of her own sons as shown in the accompanying photograph have filled missions for the church and are active members. Among the other family of children four sons and one daughter have filled missions, three having served twice. Two sons have served as Bishops. The girls have all been actave as Ward and Stake Presidents of Mutual Improvement, teachers of Sunday 'School, and have held many positions of trust. All of the marriages in this family have Her activities in the home - MARY B. HAMILTON been performed in the temple. Sister Hamilton herself has had an active church experience, serving as Counselor in M. I. A., Counselor in Relief Society for a number of years, later serving as president of that organization for sixteen years. At the organization she was chosen as a member of the Stake Board of M. I. A. Under Zina B. Cannon as President. Subsequently she be- 453 active leader in civil affairs, taking an active and leading part in many matters pertaining to the welfare of the community. She was elected president of the Farm Bureau of Salt Lake County and was president and jater Secretary of the Hill Ditch Corporation and active in numerous other matters in which the welfare of the community was concerned. MARY B. HAMILTON AND HER SIX SONS came a member of the Board of the 'Cottonwood Stake Relief Society giving splendid service for five years to a clinic held in Murray under that organization. At present she is a teacher in Sunday School, Mutual and Relief Society.. Besides her church activities Sister Hamilton has for years been an She has been a leader in politics having attended all of the County and State Conventions. In the long years she has served few if any women in the church have been more diligent and faithful in visiting the homes of the sick and responding to the call of the needy, thereby fulfilling the Master's measure of true service. Living the Word of Wisdom By Annie Clark Kimball "And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil." HE Latter-day Saint mother has one dear desire, one constant hope, one earnest prayer: "Let my children know the truth as I know it and have integrity to live in harmony with that knowledge." She is grateful to the officials of. Our 'church for the rebuttal now in action against the vigorous advertising campaign by the tobacco interests. If, by sustaining that rebuttal with enthusiasm, she can fortify her dear ones against steadily advancing evil and give them that which will lift them above temptation, sincere gratitude will well from the very depths of her soul. The mother as guardian of the home can watch that ever potent teacher, Example, in its application to our "Word of Wisdom." When coffee or tea are served upon the family table*it is hard to say to the little ones— "btit it is not for you.' When Father otelder brother use tobacco it is difficult: to lead little son to believe that its wige would injure him. Playmates a companions with harmonious ideals help to keep the voung, uncertain feet from straying. The scouts are better companions for our boys than are the idlers upon the street corners and our Church Auxiliaries are protecting arms extended to our children. A dear one remarked to me recently that she had found more happiness and received more good from the Gleaner Girls' organization in our Ward than from any sorority either social or professional to which she belongs. "To be fore-warned is to be forearmed." 'Would it not help the cause of resistance to prepare our children with information on the attacks they will have to meet and show them how these may be successfully and gracefully refuted? The radio and bill-board advertisements, the crowd that will ridicule and plead for sociability, the socalled friend who challenges with a dare are stumbling blocks for the - unguided and unprepared. Conversation in our homes may impress and glorify knowledge. There is no lack of information both scientific and testimonial for our use. Youth dreams of achievement and glory. The spirit may desire and yearn but actual earthly success must be won by this human instrument, the body. May it be strong, healthy, uncontaminated and wholly fit! <In'a personal way I am grateful for having two degreed physical education majors in our home. -Their scientific knowledge of the truth of our "Word of Wisdom" is indeed a treasure. One of these has enjoyed victories in competitive sports, has traveled far, and through official connections with national organizations has many friends in various parts of the country.. Recently I asked her how she feels about the practicability of living the "Word of Wisdom." This is her reply: "Nothing forbidden in the 'Word of Wisdom' has any attraction for me. Not one of those articles means any LIVING THE WORD OF WISDOM more to me than the dust beneath my tect. Many of my" friends smol. E; sometimes I have been the only one in the party without a cigarette but I know I shall never smoke. At banquets more than once I have been the only one to refuse the denu-tasse but coffee has absolutely no appeal for me. I believe my success in my profession is due to a great extent to my living the 'Word of Wisdom.' "T have always been respected in refusing these things and there are specific instances in which J am sure that refusal has given me increased influence." It is known widely that the Latter-day Saints stand for high ideals. Their code of living is conspicuously superior. Since in any field, respect is due only to those who 455 stand loyal and true to that which they profess, what a responsibility our children carry! The Father in our home was attending a Commercial Club dinner. At his table were three prominent business men not of our faith. Suddenly one exclaimed, "Look!" There was one of our Latter-day Saint men lighting a cigarette which he held between his lips. The next remark came, "There's another good Mormon gone wrong." The activities of life are taking us more and more into distant parts and among all kinds of people. We cannot hedge our children around and shut out all that is evil in this world as it now is, but may we find a way to touch their souls with understanding and with faith that evil shall be no temptation unto them. Doves of the Sea By Minnie J. Hardy T live in the sage and sand, Where the great Salt Lake appears, I came a supreme command, To save the first pioneers. The marauders came,—a. Horde, The weary ones to annoy, I was his flaming sword, My mission was—Destroy. There came a cricket pest, Black as a winter night; Then swift from out the west, Ten thousand wings took flight, The man was crushed with despair, But the woman's prayer was heard, When lo, from out the air, In answer came—a bird Then countless forms were lowered, With never a pause or lull. Till life and joy was restored, With the coming of the gull. Now I dream of the open sea, Where the sailor guides his barque I ride the waves in glee From crimson dawn 'till dark. I dine in many a place, Through the valleys love to roam, Then the mountain winds out-race On my happy journey home. I scream in wild delight, Encircle the desert land, Bathe my wings in billows white Then toss myself on the sand. When out the moon her anchor lifts I pose on the Temple spire, Then some rugged mountain cliff Fullfills my wild desire. When the thunder crashes aloud, And torrents hide the blue, A silver shaft through the cloud, A flash—then lost to view. Of hardships drear I tell, Of battle, death and tears, Yet the people speak me well Through all of the passing years, Symbol of Divine love To you I will ever be God's most beautiful dove Dove of the mist and the sea. How to Stage a Flower Show By Maud Cheguidden VERY year we residents of the Rocky Mountain region are becoming more and more conscious of the importance of the finer things in life, those adjuncts to a fuller and more cultured existence. Music and art, poetry and the beauties of nature, are all needed if we intend to make most profitable our years on this earth. Beautiful gardens have been cared for by the choice people since God first planted a garden and placed Adam there. Solomon speaks in exquisite language of his garden, and it was in a garden that Christ spent some of his most poignant hours. The gardens of history have passed away, but it is our blessed privilege to make gardens today just as lovely. There is no surer way to get the gardening fever than through a visit' to a flower show, and I know of few ways of giving universal pleasure better than through the assembling of the garden flowers of a ward ora stake, where blue ribbons will encourage all to bring their best blooms, and where, after the day's exhibit, the fragrant, bright blossoms may be carried to old and sick folks whose days will thus be brightened and comforted. It is not an easy job to stage a flower show, if it is to be a worthwhile effort. Forethought and careful preparation are needed. In the first place, the show must take place in a hall which is large enough to accommodate long tables with plenty of space between for visitors to pass comfortably. I have seen tables placed so closely together that passersby knocked over the vases. There should be good light for the daytime, and ample provisions for lighting at night, for this is when the largest crowds will come. Do have enough table space, too. Flowers in vases should each have enough space bet'ween them that the graceful arrangement may be noted and enjoyed. I have judged at flower shows where the exhibits were so crowded that it was impossible even to see many of the vases. This is unfair to those who bring their flowers to the show. Although white coverings are almost always used on tables, a neutral grey or green is much better. Besides being more artistic than a dead white, the soft background color shows off the delicate tints and forms of the flowers to best advantage. White detracts from the hues of the blooms, and absorbs too much light. Advertise that flowers will be received at the hall up to a certain time only, and stick to your word. Ten in the morning is usually a good time. After this lock the doors, so that your judges may work unimpeded and so do their difficult task as quickly and fairly as possible. It is no sinecure to judge a flower show and every consideration should be shown those who freely give their time in this work. Be sure that you have enough assistants but do not have so many that they are in each other's way, causing a needless confusion. If possible, flowers should be received by the reception committee in an anteroom to the large hall where the show is to be held. In this small room water should be provided, and a large tub or box to receive the 'broken blossoms and papers and other rubbish. Here entrant's may arrange the flowers in the vases which they have brought themselves, and it is a wise plan for the committee to have a number of extra HOW TO STAGE A FLOWER SHOW containers on hand, as some people will be sure to come without. At the entrance to the large show room from the small room you should have a table with a couple of good penmen, who will assist exhibitors to write the names of their flowers and their own names on the cards provided. Other members of the committee will now take the vases and place them on the tables. This is most important to the success and beauty of your show. All flowers of one variety should be next to each other, to facilitate judging. It is too bad to expect the judges to hop all over the room, looking for other vases of zinnias in order to make comparisons. Have vases no more than two deep if possible, so that visitors may see all without having to strain their necks and eyesight. Of course you will keep the shortstemmed flowers in front and the tall ones behind. It is best to give blue ribbons for first place, red for second and light green for third, as these colors are uniformly used in large shows. Sometimes public spirited citizens or business men, especially those in the nursery business, will give merchandise for special prizes, and this gives added interest to the show. In staging a flower show, try to get people away from the old-fashioned idea of bringing mixed bouquets of flowers. Each variety should be displayed alone, -both for the best effect and for ease in judging. Only the natural foliage of the flowers should be used, ferns and other greenery having no place in a flower show. Encourage exhibitors to know their flowers by name. Roses all have names. Such as_ Radiance. Claudius - Pernet, or Etoile de France. You wouldn't have much opinion of a mother or father who 457 couldn't remember the names of their children, would you? Flower children should be known just as intimately by their growers. A flower show may be held at almost any time, but during the very hottest weeks of summer it is hard to keep blooms from wilting. May is a fine time to hold a spring flower show, for at that time there are tulips, some early irises, some late daffodils, -bleeding hearts, some of the flowering shrubs, and a few of the alpine plants. Every community should hold a rose show in June. The world has no flower more universally beloved than the rose, and we here in the western states have much in our favor for growth of fine roses. Besides roses, at this show one may have delphiniums, candidum lilies, late peonies, and dozens of other perennials; but the rose should reign supreme. In early fall a flower show may feature dahlias, gladioli and late blooming perennials. House plants may always be included in shows, for there are many months of winter when these form our only horticultural delight, and a good collection of pot plants is something to be proud of. A word should be said about containers for the flowers, for many a pretty bouquet has been spoiled by being thrust into a milk bottle. Don't use these narrownecked bottles; they crowd the flowers and hold them in unnatural positions. Flowers spring from the ground and spread outwards, and vases or bottles should be used which approximate this form as much as possible. If one with wide spreading mouth cannot be found, one with straight up-anddown sides is all right. Plain glass pickle jars have frequently got very good lines, and a coat of enamel in a neutral color 458 will make a splendid vase. Black enamel is very smart at the present time, and shows off most flowers to excellent advantage. Ivory, tan, soft green are all good colors for any tint of blooms, while pinks, lavenders and yellows should be used only for flowers of the same color. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. If you have never put on a flower show in your community, try one this year and help to make yours a garden city. Only by spreading the flower gospel from town to town will we make this a nation of beautiful gardens surrounding happy homes. A PRETTY FALL SCENE IN IDAHO Happenings By Anne Wells Cannon RESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON was an honored guest on the occasion of the dedication of the monument at Independence Rock, Wyoming. The party trekked over the covered wagon trail and located and marked the. Spot where lie buried 200 sufferers of the handcart company who perished from cold and hunger in 1856. RS. IDA SMOOT-DUSENBERRY, recently returned from a world tour says India is the most interesting country, and Ghandi the strongest personality. At Honolulu she visited Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, Commissioner of Customs at that Port. "She smiled at weary feet And said of waxing age, 'Would I be robbed Of life's last page?' " O LD Folks' Day in Liberty Park when 2,100 aged guests were served a delicious dinner by the Relief Societies of Salt Lake County was a day always to be remembered by those who attended the unique occasion. HERE seems no field of endeavor denied women. Miss Margaret Stoughton of North Carolina is now in the Forestry Department. She is studying trees in the Appalachian district. Wy ers never cease. The women of Istanbul, Turkey, having discarded their veils are campaigning for office in the municipal council. OULDN'T the schoolgirl be sweeter if she used more soap and less paint in her make-up? Wits CATHER, the author, is the first woman to receive an honorary degree from Princeton. Miss Cather was recently given the' degree of doctor of letters. Grace Abbott, chief of the Children's Bureau at Washington and Grace Coolidge were each awarded a gold medal from the National Institute of Social Sciences. Bp RAU EINSTEIN proved a wholesome point in relativity while on her visit to America when she chose a modest bungalow in which to do her own work to the magnificent residence proffered by California. * ADAM SCHUMANN HEINK. Is also an advocate of the simple life. She says "work is happiness, housekeeping, bearing and rearing children, these are all happiness." HOUGH Amelia Earhart Putman and Ruth Nichols, the two most famous women aviators have met with painful accidents, they still intend to carry on—Miss Nichols to make her solo flight across the Atlantic and Mrs. Putnam to continue demonstrating with her autogyro. A the season's Court at Buckingham Palace, twenty American women were presented to King George and Queen Mary. Royalty seems to still have its attractions. ILHELMINA, popular Queen of the Netherlands is the world's senior ruler since the expulsion of Alphonso from Spain. HE tragic fate of Helen of Rumania and Victoria of Spain afford interesting material for the romanticist and artist, but are positive proof of the old adage "Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown." The world is full of loneliness" Let hearts be glad. Notes from the Field CIRCLEVILLE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY India Johnson, President Garfield Stake (Circleville Ward) Tee above interesting picture is that of the Circleville Ward Relief Society. Four of the oldest members of the Relief Society are here represented, in addition to the younger women. The picture is quite typical of the groups of women all over the Church who have responded so generously to the request made for the organizations to plant a memorial tree this year. Beaver Stake. N March 29, 1931, the Beaver stake Relief Society was reorganized. After ten years of faithful service, the following stake executive officers were released. Mrs. Susan J. Murdock, president; Mrs. Annie E. Joseph, first counselor; Mrs. S. Jennie Tanner, second counselor; Mrs. Alice G. White, secretary-treasurer; Mrs. Martha A. Hoopes assistant secretary-treasurer. Under the leadership of these able sisters, the Beaver stake has endeavored always to keep in step with the march of progress of the Relief Society, and has been an enthusiastic supporter of the program of work as it has been suggested by the General Board. The very best wishes of the people of Beaver and of the General Board of Relief Society, go with these sisters in their retirement from office. The newly appointed officers are: Mrs. Kate Jensen, president; Mrs. Lacy Nowers, first counselor; Mrs. Lucille Murdock, second counselor; Mrs. Lovina Pearce, secretary-treasurer. To the new officers the general organization extends congratulations, and best wishes for a prosperous and happy administration of the Relief Society in the Beaver stake. Alberta Stake. Pz international scope of Relief Society is well demonstrated in the activities of the organization. From all parts of the United States, we have interesting accounts of the tree planting of our sisters in memory of the bicentennial anniversary of the birth of George NOTES FROM THE FIELD Washington. From the sisters of the North, we have the following interesting report, showing that the spirit of Relief Society carries over the same in one land as in another. Shows the The above picture group particularly concerned in the planting of the trees in Cardston, Alberta, Canada. The following account is given in a newspaper clipping: "Last Monday afternoon at 4:30 p. M., the members of the Alberta Stake Relief Society, and the ward presidents of the two Cardston wards, and a number of citizens, met at the Soldiers' Monument at the Court House in Cardston, for the purpose of planting some trees. Five elm trees were chosen, and planted in honor of the Fathers of the Confederation. Mrs. Dora Jacobs explained the purpose of these trees being planted in loving memory of those thirty-three splendid men whom we all revere as the Fathers of the Confederation. Miss Jennie Hinman conducted a chorus of twenty school children, who sang "O Canada," and then 461 gave a salute to the flag. Mr. Rulon E. Hicken, principal of the High School, delivered the address, and told of the obstacles which confronted the founding of Canada, and of the spirit of fortitude and courage with which difficulties had been overcome. He went on to pay tribute to the women's organizations, in playing a leading part in honoring these worthy men, among whom were Sir John A. McDonald, George Brown, George Carties, and many others. Mr. Hicken briefly reviewed some of the Governmental Acts which had been passed in an attempt to solve the governing of Canada, viz., the Act of Union, and a concerted effort to bring about the Confederation of 1867. Five trees were planted, three on the east side and two on the north side of the monument erected by the loyal citizens of Cardston to the memory of their departed soldiers. The tree next north from the monument was given by the Hartley Relief Society, the second by the Kimball. The first tree on the east was donated by the stake board of Relief Society, the second tree by the Cardston Second Ward Relief Society, the third by the First Ward Relief Society, showing that all were interested in the movement. President Wood of the Alberta stake, expressed his appreciation for the efforts of the Relief Society women in planting the trees near to the monument of the soldier boys. He thought it a fitting manner of showing their appreciation for this monument, and the boys who had given their lives for their country. The concluding remarks of Mr. Hicken were as follows: 'Then let these trees, planted by loving and patriotic hands, and nurtured by this virgin soil, the sunshine and dews of heaven, grow to be fitting monuments to the wisdom and foresight of those Pioneer Canadian States- 462 men, whose memory we love' to honor." This is quite typical of the spirit of the organization, that everywhere wishes to play its part in the march onward and upward. San Luis Stake. RES accompanying photograph was taken at a very pleasant social held by the stake board of Relief Society of the San Luis stake. This happy event was held at the home of Mrs. Mary E. Poulson, who had served faithfully for several years as a member of the board, and had only recently been released because of poor health. A program was rendered, and tributes were paid to Sister Poulson, calling attention, with words of love and good feeling, to the wonderful service she had rendered, and also expressing regret at her release. These were accompanied with the hope that she would have a speedy return to health. Dainty refreshments were served, and a very delightful time was enjoyed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The San Luis stake is very proud to have Sister Cornelia Mortensen, an aged pioneer and Relief Society worker in the stake. She has served as both a ward and stake president. As a board the efforts of the women have been to put into effect the program of Relief Society work as far as it is possible. On the second Wednesday of each month the board holds its meeting, going into the homes of the various members, where the business of the organization for the coming month, and preparation for the same, may be made. The informal social hour after each meeting has added greatly to the enjoyment of the stake board, and has been a means of drawing them nearer together and forming a stronger bond of acquaintanceship and sympathy one with another. Montpelier Stake. Des the months of January and February, there have been four conventions held. The stake Front row, left to right: Coun. Jennie Weimer, St. Pres. Martha Haskell, Cornelia Mortensen. Second row: Coun. Ella O, Rasmussen, Bernice Rogers, Nonnie DePriest, Ella Lauretta Peterson. Jackson, Jennie DePriest, Organist. NOTES FROM THE FIELD was divided into the four districts, three districts comprising three wards each, and the remaining one four wards. The general outline of the program followed was: beginning at 11 o'clock, lessons 'were given by competent class leaders. These were followed by musical selections, and timely instructions by members of the Relief Society stake board. 'There were also readings suitable to the occasion. Following this luncheon was served and the afternoon was devoted to games and social entertainment. The members of the stake board presented the one-act play, called "The Bank Account." At these conventions the stake presidency, and the Bishops and their counselors, added greatly to the enjoyable and instructive occasion. The total attendance at these four conventions was 396. They have resulted in a marked increase in at- 463 Presidency, and guests enjoyed the evening in games and entertainment at the home of a board member. Union Stake. HE 17th of March, 1931, was the occasion for special programs in the Relief Societies of the Union stake. Every ward depicted either by pageant or play, the first organization of Relief Society in Nauvoo. Songs suitable for the event were rendered. In some of the wards plays chosen from the literature course of the year were presented. Pageants and scenes from the Book of Mormon were given, and a five minute debate suggested by the social service work—"Resolved, that a woman of 45 cannot change her habits." This was a source of much entertainment. One ward gave a dance in the evening, at which the membership of the entire ward was in attendance. Mary E. Poulson, Amelia Poulson, Leatha Sowards, chorister. The lady at the back Mrs. Van Tradenburg, brought members in her car from Manassa. Tendance at regular Relief Society meetings in all the wards. As aconclusion the members of the stake board, with their partners and Stake The above picture is taken of the First Ward of LaGrande, in the Union stake, and it is a presentation of the first organization. Notes to the Field A Wonderful Magazine Subscription Campaign The officers of the 20th ward, Ensign Stake, jhave demonstrated what determination and efficient work can do in increasing Magazine subscriptions. Increasing their list from 17 to 101 subscriptions is a record to be proud of. We asked the president to tell us how they did it. The following article will give inspiration to other wards to materially increase their lists——Editor. By Vivian McConkie O give a word picture of the accomplishments of a loyal and faithful group of Relief Society sisters in a particular activity is not easy and I respond timidly with the doubtful hope that my brief resume will answer the query of the editor. In our March union meeting Sister Castleton, Ensign Stake Relief Society President, suggested a drive for magazine subscriptions. At our ward society conference a few days previous the stake officers reported that the 20th ward was by far the lowest in magazine subscriptions in the Stake, both in numbers and in percentage. Ours was a newly officered society and we were further handicapped in that our magazine agent, recently appointed, was out of the city. For that reason the ward executives assumed personal charge. We made a careful survey of our membership, learned who the present subscribers were, checked with the. Records of the general office, and in all things acquainted ourselves with the details of the work. We determined who could and those who probably could not subscribe. At the outset we sought to radiate the feeling that whatever we really want to do,—that which we set our hearts upon, we can do. The executives were enthused and that: enthusiasm carried over to the members. A percentage scale of mental attitudes was written on a_ black board and left in our room. It was as follows. 100 I did. 90 I will. 80 I can. 70 'I think I can. 60 I might. 50 I think I might. 40 I wish I could. 30 What is it? 20 I don't know. 10 I can't. O I won't. W* adopted the slogan, "A magazine for every member," and devoted a two minute period of each meeting to creating interest and organization pride, at which meetings our progress was fully reported. We saw the necessity of a magazine fund and so cast our eyes about to see how it might be secured. A local laundry was _ discovered which, for advertising purposes, offered our organization 25 cents for each member who would inspect its plant. Our members approved of this opportunity and _ the little scheme netted us $15.00. Each woman who visited the laundry was given 25 cents credit toward a magazine subscription, or if already a subscriber she could designate to whom the credit should go. Many who could not go on this inspection trip voluntarily gave a like sum to the fund. The result was that an additional sum sufficient to off set the credit used from the laundry NOTES TO THE FIELD fund was received, leaving at the disposal of the organization $15.00. This made it possible to put fifteen magazines in homes of members who for some reason, had not subscribed but who in, our opinion would appreciate it. Every woman in the 20th ward knew that an intensive magazine drive was on and our teachers were asked to encourage prospective subscribers. On work days selected articles which radiated human interest and touched the experiences of all, were read to the sisters while they sewed. Such fine support and enthusiasm was shown that certain women who felt themselves able to do so subscribed for others. Finally, but pursuant to our original plan, a member of the presidency personally contacted those who had not placed their subscriptions and secured a generous response. Our survey had revealed that only a few of the seventeen subscriptions of 1930 had been renewed so our start was practically from the bottom. There are at present 101 subscriptions in the ward, which is slightly less than 100 per cent of our members but practically every member has access to the magazine. We acknowledge with gratitude the loyalty and faithfulness of our whole membership, who by sane and loyal cooperation, without any hardship on any one, crowned our efforts with success, and the splendid magazine now published is ample compensation for our labors. TO OUR CLASS LEADERS ULTIVATE the art of teachC ing. We should not have one ward this year where the class leader does all the work and the class members have things poured into them week after week. Occasionally lectures may be desirable, but to go to meeting and 465 have the so-called leader continually take up all the time, pouring out information, shows very poor work. Some teachers say they do not know how to draw people out. We assure them that the art can be cultivated, and they will thrill with joy when they get ithe backward {members expressing themselves. It might help such class leaders to write out a few simple questions to ask the class until they can draw people out with greater ease. Every teacher should be sure that her assignment arouses the interest of the class members and invites them to read and study the next lesson, beginning at the earliest possible moment. This year we are going to lay special stress on participation by the class in the lessons, so an effort should be made to get the Magazine in the hands of all who attend and then they should be encouraged to read and study the lessons so that they come to the class with something to give. In this condition they will be able to receive much more than when they hardly know what the lesson is about. RELIEF SOCIETY TWO-DAY CONVENTIONS, 1931 Alberta............ August 15-16 ee, #. October 24-25 Big Horn.......... August 29-30. AeAugust 15-16 >. (eeSeptember 12-13 Carbon.......... September 26-27 Curlew........... October 17-18 Duchesne.......... August 22-23 Emery............ October 24-25 Garfield............ August 15-16 Idaho....... Be oisAugust 29-30 Juarez............ September 5-6 Kamab............. August 29-30 Lethbridge......... August 15-16 Lost River........ October 17-18 466 Lyman............ October 17-18 Maricopa........ November 1415 Moapa.......... September 19-20 Nevada........... October 17-18 Panguitch.......... August 29-30 Raft River...... September 12-13 Roosevelt.......... August 22-23 St. George...... September 19-20 St. Johns.......... August 15-16 St. Joseph......... September 5-6 San Juan........ September 12-13 San Luis........ September 19-20 Snowflake......... August 22-23 Star Valley...... September 19-20 Taylor............. August 22-23 Uintah...... 3aAugust 22-23 Union.......... September -19-20 Wayne............ October 17-18 Woodruff......... October 10-11 Young.......... September 19-20 Zion Park........ September 5-6 RELIEF SOCIETY ONE-DAY CONFERENCES, 1931 Alpmie@m.............. October 18 Bear Lake............ August 23 Bear River......... September 13 Beaver........¢... September 13 Benson............--October 25 Blackfoot.......... September 20 Box Elder......... September 13 Burley).. 9. September 13 Cache ~.....5 0 eeeOctober 25. Cassia........ - ameSeptember 13 Cottonwood.......... October 11 Deseretuae'...>.. EeeAugust 30 East Jordan........... August 30 Ensign. 2... October 25 Frankly.7...... AeSeptember 20 Fremont............. October 18 Graniten.. OrNovember 15 Grantee.... See. JeeOctober 11 Gunnisone... 9.. /eeeeOctober 18 Hollywood......... November 15 Flyin.. See. EeOctober 18 Idaho Falls........ September 13 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Juab...........4.. September 27 Kolob.........--.20. October 18 Lehi.....)September 20 Liberty..:..........-October 11 Logan..........-.-0e. August 30 Los Angeles......... November 8 Malad.............-. October 18 Millard.............. August 30 Minidoka............. October 18 Montpelier........... August 23 Morgan.............. August 30 Moroni............ September 27 Mt. Ogden......... September 22 Nebo....... Qmmpe.. September 20 North Davis....... September 17 North Sanpete...... September 13 North Sevier....... September 13 North Weber........ November 8 Oogden*....-3aee... September 22 Oneida............ September 20 Oquirth. EeeOctober 25 Palmyra........... September 20 Parowan...........04. August 30 Pioneer.............. October 25 Pocatello........... September 20 Portneuf.......... September 20 Rigby............. September 13 Salt Lake............ October 11 San Francisco........ October 25 Sevier........ W.+.. September 13 Sharon.............. October 25 Shelley............ September 13 South Davis........ September 13 South Sanpete...... September 27 South Sevier......... October 18 Summit.............. August 30 Teton............. September 20 Timpanogos.......... October 11 Tintic JSR en oerSeptember 27 Tooele............ September 20 Twin Falls......... September 20 Utah eesOctober 11 Wasatch.............. August 23 Weber............ September 22 West Jordan......... October 25 Yellowstone........... August 30 THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN' CHILD MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND GENERAL BOARD:: President - First Counselor: Second Counselor Gener Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs, lene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs, Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Directur RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -:: -:::: Mary Connetty KimsBaii Manager -: Louise Y. Rosison Assistant Manager - Amy Brown Lyman VoL. XVIII AUGUST, 1931 No. 8 EDITORIAL Worthy of Emulation lav the passing of Nathan Straus who died January 11, 1931, when nearly eighty-three years of age, there passed from the world one of its most beloved men and one of its greatest philanthropists. He is known internationally for his numerous bequests and charities. His beneficence was practical—he had known hunger and to him it typified all suffering, so he waged war on it. It is estimated that he gave away about two million, five hundred thousand dollars during his life time. An old Talmudic saying was a favorite maxim of his, "What a man gives in health is gold; what a man gives in illness is silver; what a man gives in death is lead." He was a pioneer in pasteurization of milk, although he knew nothing about bacteriology; yet he felt that disease lurked in the unpasateurized milk, so he waged a long battle before, he was able to establish a pasteurization station. He organized thirty-two milk stations at which three thousand poor children were fed daily. He distributed pasteurized milk from his own laboratories that were maintained at his own expense, selling it at Ic a bottle. It is estimated that he thus saved thou-, sands of children from tuberculosis. During the Spanish American War he donated an ice plant to Santiago, Cuba, and at Farmington, New Jersey, in 1909, he established the first tuberculosis preventorium. He contributed to the soup kitchens maintained in Jerusalem since 1912, where 1,700 people are fed daily. He financed many depots organized to distribute relief to the poor. During the later years of his life, he was deeply interested in the Zionist movement and also in the world peace movement. During his long life he Misi a Christ-like spirit of service. - His 468 instructions regarding his funeral set an example that might well be followed. He left instructions for a simple funeral. He desired that no formal eulogy, no praise, and no flowers should mark his last rites. He said, "I dislike to see these great funerals.. These large sums should be spent for the betterment of mankind." William Lyon Phelps read a brief eulogy of his life, with no undue stress upon his many benificent works. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Would that people generally would take this lesson to heart. All too often funerals are too costly. Very often the deceased is lauded unduly. Too little of the meaning of life, death, and the resurrection is voiced. Hundreds of dollars worth of flowers die a few hours after the services. Often the family are in need and the money spent for flowers might more profitably be given to help defray the funeral expenses. Let Us Improve WHEN people are given a certain amount of time on a program, it is not right for them to exceed the specified time. If they do, they crowd those who come last on the program so that they cannot do justice to their subjects. Often speakers are unconscious that they are going beyond their allotted time, so it is the obligation of the presiding officer to see that they are told when their time is up. The general president of an auxiliary organization was recently asked to be the principal speaker at a meeting. Those who preceded her on the program took nearly all the time—only five minutes was left for the speaker of the evening. Comments are unnecessary. We have seen people gather in large numbers expecting to hear one of the General Authorities of the Church, and local brethren who were expected to speak briefly have taken practically all the time and the congregation has gone away disappointed and disgusted. Sometimes listeners note some trifling inaccuracy made by a speaker and disturb the trend of his thought by calling attention to it in the course of his remarks. Sometimes the speaker was right and the critic wrong, but the peace of the meeting was disturbed. Is it not better to make any necessary corrections of flagrant mistakes at the close of the speaker's address? All unconsciously some people bother a speaker. Recently I heard a woman say, "Those sitting back of me talked so much I thought I had said something wrong, so I became confused." A speaker has the right to be quietly heard. Our New Covers We hope our readers will enjoy the new cover designs. They have messages that are worth getting. The Pioneer Mother of July shows the intrepid, the fearless, the undaunted spirit that went right on surmounting one difficulty after another, doing the day's duties, whatever they might be, and unafraid of what the morrow might demand. Those who have taken their vacations, those who are now taking them or those who are contemplating the pleasure of one, will feel the joy, the freedom, the uplift of the wholesome play spirit as shown on this month's cover. Be sure to drink in the messages our artists have for us in our cov- "ers. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in October ) THE Book oF MoRMON—INTRODUCTORY PREFATORY NOTES There are nine lessons in this course. They are chiefly the teachings of the Book of Mormon. The purpose of the course is not primarily to learn the doctrines of that volume, although these should be known, but rather to find out what bearing they have on the divine origin of the Nephite Record and the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. With this in mind, some attention has been given to the religious ideas that were in the air at the time he was translating the book. Instead of giving a large number of references for the class to look up, it has been deemed better to make quotations in the body of the lessons. This will no doubt lessen the time for preparation and conduce to better classes. The only disadvantage is that it takes up space in the Magazime that heretofore has been given to other uses. These lessons are by no means exhaustive. There are many points that are not even touched upon here. Space and time are too limited to cover everything doctrinal in the Record. The class should, therefore, make use of the work they were asked to do during the previous two years in setting down, under separate headings, the teachings of the Book of Mormon. And this record should be made use of here. It will supplement what is said in these lessons. _A greater number of questions are given. This year than the last two years. The reason is that we have hoped to cover some points in the questions that there was not space for in the body of the lesson. It is our belief that these will help to broaden the scope of the course. We have aimed, also, in these questions to make the work apply more closely to the present. Select Readings: Read the Book of Ether, chapters 2 to 6 and chapters 11, 12, 13. Make a note of the doctrines taught. INTRODUCTORY Is there another life, and, if there is, how are we to know it for certain? No question is older than that. When the first man went away without his body and did not come back, but left it on the ground or in the rude bed, cold and dank, those who were left behind and who had loved him and were sad because he was gone must have wondered and asked one another whether they would ever see him again, and if so, where, and when, and under what circumstances. And no question is more insistently asked today. Every one who thinks at all asks it, whether he lives in the frozen north, or at the equator under the broiling sun, or in the temperate zones where life can be lived more comfortably. They ask it as passionately who live in the luxury of the palace, where there is plenty and ease, as do those who occupy the hovel, amid want and suffering. And 470 alt down the ages since that first one aied men oi every clime and Class llave turned their eyes toward the "pourne whence no one returns" to lake up again his way of lite. And what answers have these received to their question about death and the great Beyond? Rairst ot all, they have racked their brains to find an answer to this question in their own heads—have tried, that is, to reason their way to an answer that is satisfactory. "all men everywhere," they have said to themselves, "believe ln lmmortality, no matter where they live, or when, or how, and therefore there must be another life after this." And tor hundreds of years this "argument," as it was called, was thought one of the "proofs" of immortality. But now we know better. Now we realize that it is not true, because it is not based on a fact. All men do not believe in another life. The millions of East Indians do not—at least, not in our sense. When a Christian says he believes in the next world, he is thinking that there he will exist as an individual consciousness, a being capable of thinking and feeling and willing. But when a Buddhist says he believes in another life, he is not thinking of that at all, but of something very different. He is thinking of the time when his individuality will be absorbed by the all-consciousness, the great Nervana. Besides, an American professor discovered through a questionnaire that a great many people in this nation—university students as well as some great scholars—do not believe in individual immortality. Many of them, in fact, do not even desire individual immortality, as he also found. To them the other world is a matter of utter indifference. That is what they would have us believe, at any rate. And most RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE likely if an inquiry were set on foot, there would be found people in every other country of the same mind. Hence, an argument based on the notion that there must be another life after this because everybody believes in one, breaks down when it is examined closely. And then, too, people have argued that there must be another life for the reason that we do not get justice in this world. The wicked flourish, we are told, while the righteous are crushed and unhappy. What about that "argument"? Well, it just isn't true—that is all. The wicked do not prosper here in the true sense of the word, nor are the righteous miserable. No doubt some wicked men become rich through their greed and chicanery; and no doubt some very good people are poor. But money is not the real standard of measuring values, although it often appears to be. There is the higher value of individual worth. Every hour and every minute we are paid for what we do in this world. We do not have to wait for another world in which to obtain our reward and our punishment for the deeds done in the body. "The ledger of the Almighty," as Professor Huxley used to say, "is strictly kept, and every one of us has the balance of his operations paid over to him at the end of every minute of his existence. The gravitation of sin to sorrow is as certain as that of the earth to the sun—and more so." So the argument that there is another life because in this world people do not get their just deserts, falls to the ground for want of support. And then, finally—not to exhaust the list of "arguments drawn from reason"—there is the one called "moral perfection." It runs something like this: Man is a moral being. Apparently he is capable of LESSON DEPARTMENT progressing morally and spiritually almost without limit. But no sooner does he enter upon the road to perfection than he dies with this promise unfulfilled. Hence there must be a sphere beyond the grave where this capacity for moral perfection is satisfied. For God would not put something into your hand only to snatch it away when you were about to use it. Of the three reasons for believing in the immortality of the soul, this is the only one that appeals to the modern mind as having any basis in truth, and the more we consider it the more it appeals. But it does not have the weight that is necessary to convince—else every one would be converted to the Christian belief in immortality. So mankind has had to look somewhere else than to a human deduction for evidence that there is a life after this. That evidence is found in the resurrection of our Savior, as given in the New Testament. Jesus, to all appearance, was a man. He grew up in the village of Nazareth a carpenter. He lived with other men. He ate their food, slept in their beds, and dressed as they did. He became a great teacher, and had a large following. Then he was murdered by jealous contemporaries. His body was placed in a sepulchre, after the manner of his time and country. And a Roman guard was set to watch the tomb, because he had told his disciples that he would rise from the dead on the third day. And those disciples declared that he did rise from the dead, that he appeared to them on various occasions, and that they conversed and ate with him. Nor was that all. An institution was founded on this fact of his resurrection, which has continued for more than nineteen centuries. 471 Reduced to its ultimate, the fact of Christ's resurrection rests on the testimony of Paul, the apostle, who did not see Jesus till after the ascension. In his letter to the Corinthians he says: "I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received—how that Christ died for our sins; that he was buried; that he rose again the third day; that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve; that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this day, but some are fallen asleep; that afterwards he was seen of James. Then of all the apostles; and that, last of all, he was seen of me, as of one born out of due time." Many attempts have been made. Especially in our own era, to break down this testimony of Paul's. Holsten, for instance, tried to show that Paul's vision was an hallucination; Pfleiderer, that he made it up, for his theory of '"counter-tendencies" amounts to that; and Renan, that it was the result of a physical disability in the apostle. And a Protestant bishop in England attributes the vision to an epileptic fit. All these critics resort to these hypotheses, however, only because of an obsession against the miraculous element in religion. But so far no effort has been successful in breaking down the force of Paul's testimony to the resurrection of Christ. And so, with Bauer, who also was unfriendly to the miraculous, we are compelled to admit that the conversion of Saul of Tarsus "'resists all historical, logical, and psychological analysis." This is because it is bed-rocked in an experience, not in a course of reasoning. This testimony of Paul's, of course, is strongly bulwarked by the fact of Christianity itself. For no institution could influence for good the lives of countless millions of men 472 and women, let alone have altered the entire course of history and shaped the destiny of strong men and nations as the religion of Jesus has done, unless there were at the heart of it somewhere a deep, elemental truth. And, say what you will, the core of the Christian religion as established by Jesus and his apostles, is the resurrection of Christ. Thus the faith of millions of intelligent people throughout the world and for many centuries, rests upon the validity of a miracle. "Sir," said old Boswell to Johnson, "the evidences of a future life are sufficient." And the great literary dictator replied in his gruff manner, "Sir, I could wish for more." If the evidences of a future life were sufficient, as Boswell thought, how is it then that the whole world has not been converted? Boswell would have had a hard time explaining that. But Johnson was right. There is a need for more evidence that there is a future life. But where are we to look for such evidence? Not to human reasoning. That source, it seems, has long been exhausted. Not to the New Testament, for every nook and cranny of that volume has been critically inspected. Indeed, the more that source is looked into, the more doubt is thrown upon the possibility of the resurrection from the dead.. The only bit of evidence that remains from that source, as already stated, is the testimony of Paul. Our only hope, therefore, for any new evidence of the reality of a life after this lies in the expectation that God may grant us further light on that greatest of all questions through new revelation. That light has been given man. Joseph Smith, the prophet of the nineteenth century, claimed to have seen a resurrected man, not once RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE only, but many times. This personage, he further declares, conversed with him for hours at atime. Moreover, he instructed him in his work as prophet and seer in this dispensation. Finally, this heavenly being placed in his hands a book of gold plates on which was written, in an ancient language, the history of an extinct race, the ancestors of the American Indians. Now, the evidence that Joseph Smith was telling the truth runs along two lines. First, there is the book itself. Who wrote it, if Joseph Smith did not? No competent critic nowadays, with all the facts before him, believes that either Solomon Spaulding or Sidney Rigdon had anything to do with writing it. Besides, it is highly improbable, to say the least, that a boy without education or experience in such things, could have written such a book. And then, finally, there could have been no motive to write a book that would give him neither fame nor money. So we must accept the Prophet's own explanation of how the Book of Mormon originated as the only really plausible one. Now, there are some things in the Book of Mormon which corroborate Joseph Smith's story. It is full of interesting characters and ideas that its author could not possibly have got from the people he knew or the conditions in Palmyra at the time. These personalities and doctrines, when we look into the matter closely, tend to show the truth of Joseph Smith's explanation of how we got the Nephite record. Secondly, there is the testimony of the witnesses—two sets. One set testify that they saw and handled the plates from which the book was translated; the other, that they both saw the plates and the angel and LESSON DEPARTMENT heard the voice of God on the occasion. The divine origin of the Book of Mormon being thus established by its doctrines and by the testimony of witnesses, we may feel safe in saying that Joseph Smith actually saw and talked with a resurrected being—the angel Moroni. Also we may feel safe in using the contents of the work to clarify our ideas on the great question of the immortality of the soul—the world of spirits between death and the resurrection, the resurrection itself, and the conditions under which immortal beings may expect to live in the next world. Thus the Book of Mormon, with 473° associated incidents, reflects new light on the question, Is there another life? Questions 1. Briefly state the point that it is expected you are to keep in mind throughout this course. 2. Which of the three reasons for a belief in immortality still has weight? Why does it? 3. Give the apostle Paul's testimony to the resurrection of Christ. Why is it so invulnerable? 4. Can one person know anything from another's experience? What, then, is the value of others' testimony to us?. Work and Business (Second Week in October) Watchword: be to this house."—Luke 10:5. "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace Text: "Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.'"—Matthew 5:19. HE Ten Commandments, given through Moses to the children of Israel, are commandments to the people of all times. While prophets were preaching to the people on the Eastern continent, other prophets were preaching to the Nephites and Lamanites on this continent, and Christ appeared to them also, and taught them. We find in the Book of Mormon, III Nephi, '12:20: "Therefore come unto me and be ye saved; for verily I say unto you, that except ye shall keep my commandments, which I have commanded you at this time, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven." Christ established His Church on both continents. It was lost sight of and then again restored and established again on the earth through the latter-day prophet Joseph Smith, Through him commandments were given to his followers that are quite as binding as those enunciated anciently. He taught his people in no uncertain language their obligations concerning law observance. "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law.' Articles of Faith. No. XII. At the present time special emphasis is being placed on the; Word of Wisdom. Every Relief Society member should do her part to further this campaign. Quote the part 474 of the Word of Wisdom that refers to tobacco. What can we do to teach most effectively this part of the Word of Wisdom to our children? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE What can we do to create public ' sentiment against tobacco? What can we do to sustain the law that forbids the sale of tobacco tO minors? Literature (Third Week in October) THE SHORT Story IN DENMARK The short story in Denmark, as in the other Scandinavian countries —Iceland, Norway, and Sweden— has a much briefer history than in the countries studied in last year's lessons. To sketch this history very briefly, there were first the Icelandic sagas, songs of the gods and of the national heroes, many of which were told to us as children. These sagas found their way into all the Scandinavian nations. In Denmark there were always a number of poets, but - during that country's alliance with Norway, it produced one great prose writer, Ludvig Holberg (1684 to 1754). Holberg was a writer of comedies, histories, and philosophy. After him prose languished and revived again in the early part of the nineteenth century, 'Moller and Blicher being the two greatest writers. It remained for Hans Christian Andersen ''(1805-1875) to bring Danish prose to its greatest heights and to give to the world another i:..- mortal writer of short stories. In many ways Andersen belonged to the Romantic writers of Europe, men who strove for romantic effects, who tried to bring Nature into their writings, to oppose classicism, and to glorify the past at the expense of the present. He, however, differed from many of the Romanticists in that he believed in progress. Both his poetry and prose show glimpses of the changes that science might some day make. He often dreamed of a time when men would travel from the old world to the new in airships. A poor shoemaker's son who never grew up was Hans Christian Andersen. He believed implicitly that God guided all his work—and if a story was good or bad, it was the fault of a higher power. It was his good fortune to gain fame as a novelist and as a travei writer, but it is for his fairy tales that his name will endure. After the Romanticists came the Naturalists, writers who ruled Europe during the latter part of the nineteenth century, some years before they gained a following in America. Many writers developed in this era and the twentieth century has seen a reaction against too much realism. Some of the outstanding short story writers in Denmark during the past forty or fifty years are: Jens Peter Jacobsen, Henrik Pontoppidan, Herman Bang, Karl 'Gjellerup, Karl Larsen, and Johannes V. Jensen, the latter being a central figure among contemporary Danish writers. Only two of the Danish writers have been elected for this lesson, Hans Christian Andersen, whose name is known to all America, and Meyer Aron Goldschmidt. Goldschmidt was a Danish-Jew who was an editor of a satirical comic paper. In addition he wrote novels and short stories, His "'Henrik and Rosalie" LESSON DEPARTMENT is considered one of the finest love stories of any language. He is a stylist, and in this story his style is smooth and simple, save to those who know how hard it is to achieve simplicity. It is in harmony with his characters, simple, honest people, struggling for "life's poetry" and gaining it through unromantic ways. He also has a firm grip on his characters, perhaps because of his detached view of both the Danish and the Jewish people. "Henrik and Rosalie' "Henrik and Rosalie" is a beautiful love story. It has for its underlying theme the thought expressed in the first few lines, that fate plays queer tricks and that even small things of seeming unimportance may change a man's destiny. The story is presented in the third person— the author speaking impersonally. It varies from one of the requirements of a good short story in that the point of view is suddenly changed near the end of the story. For a moment, when Rosalie is again brought into the story, the reader is at a loss, and he does not quite find himself before Henrik is re-introduced. And the story loses, rather than gains, by this transition. The most important information given by the episode of Rosalie at the country estate is that she is still looking for her poetic romance. This trait of hers should be emphasized earlier in the story and the tale would gain in unity. Save for the halt at the very first, when the writer expounds his philosophy, the story plunges early into the action and moves smoothly and fast to the close. The action, however, is delayed once by the introduction of the Rosalie episode. The close is drawn out, but it seems a necessary part of the atmosphere of 475 the story and it helps to further reveal the characters of Henrik and Rosalie. The story is a realistic one—it might have happened to a great many people that we know or have heard about—and there is not one single incident in it that does not ring true. The conflict is not, as in the Andersen story, one of parental opposition, for Rosalie has no parents. It is that conflict caused by a young romantic girl who decides that her love affair is too prosaic and that she must end it and either wait for her lover to develop into a more poetic person or else seek for romance elsewhere. True to adolescent traits, the inciting action is a visit to the theatre, where romance is shown, unhampered with any of the dull colors that move through Rosalie's life. And the hero, Henrik, like most men, fails to understand the girl's need and allows love to pass out of his life. The rest of the story is an account of how they are brought together, Rosalie satisfied and Henrik more understanding. Fate, in this case, takes the form of a stupid farmer who has a sick pig and mistakes the young physician for a veterinary. Although the love story is uppermost, the tale affords excellent character study, particularly in Henrik. Henrik is young and almost as impressionable as Rosalie. Because their love is so idealistic, he decides to become a student of divinity, and when she leaves him, he changes to his former preference—medicine. He has no consuming ambition, no great moral strength or talent, nor even decision enough to bring Rosalie back. Indeed he is not master enough of the situation to have his way with the simple peasant. But he is a likeable young person, ambitious in a small way, eager to make 476 his way honorably in the world, and we are glad that happiness comes to him, even though he gets it more through a trick of fate or luck than through his own efforts. The story also has its touches of local color that give it enduring qualities: the provincial town, the farmer and his sick pig, Henrik and his physician's stool, the heath in a storm. There is also a little gentle satire in the end. The romantic girl chooses to believe that it was her spirit that led her lover through the storm, while in fact an unromantic sick pig was the cause of his finding his way back to her. Scandinavian stories are often filled with the mystic or superstitious elements, and Rosalie's faith borders on this characteristic. "The Shepherdess and the Sheep" One can understand the story of "The Shepherdess and the Sheep" well enough without knowing much of the author, but in order to fully appreciate the graceful little fairy tale a person should know something of Andersen. Hans Christian Andersen began his autobiography with "My life is a lovely fairy tale, happy and full of incidents." His statement is true, for he seemed actually to live in the wondrous regions that he created. The prosaic facts of life had little meaning for him. Every incident in his career he regarded as a miracle. Those people who were good to him and praised his writings, he could never cease exalting. Those who criticized him and snubbed him, he called bad, and he had no ability to discriminate. When he visited a king it was as if a boy from one of his fairy tales were going into the royal court. Kings never lost their glamor for him. To his dying day Andersen's inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE nocence and unworldliness were inconceivable save to those who knew him intimately and realized that intellectually he would never mature. All his life he wore his heart on his sleeve and called the world to see how sensitive and tender it was. He was as harmlessly vain as a small child. When he could be the center of attraction, he was supremely happy, but put him into the background and he planned ways of making people turn to look at him. "The Ugly Duckling" is his own story. Yet, because of these very qualities Andersen was able to write his fairy tales that are so beautiful and so full of truth. In them he shows us how a child views the world. He gives his animals and inanimate objects words that seem essential to their characteristics. Even his darning needle speaks as a darning needle should. Throughout his stories there runs a beautifully conceived moral, often the moral as a child would see it, and along with the moral goes a bit of delicate satire. The satire in his "The Emperor's New Clothes'— which every one should read once a year—is world wide in its application. Andersen was as original in his style as he was in his themes. When a good story teller narrates an incident to children, he is quite apt to crow for the rooster and baa for the sheep. And Hans Christian Andersen does that very thing in print. His stories are told rather than written. He was born at Odense on the island of Funen, April 2, 1805, with a poor shoemaker for a father and a woman of no great intellect for a mother. At the age of fourteen his parents started him off, a tall, awkward, ugly boy, to conquer the world by way of Copenhagen. At that time LESSON DEPARTMENT Hans had no idea ct his limitations. He tried to be an actor, a singer, a dancer, and failed ignobly at all. It was not until Jonas Collins, a director of the Royal Theatre, persuaded King Frederic, VI, to pay for the boy's education at the University that Hans began to find himself. It is said of Hans Christian Andersen that "he was great in the little things and little in the great things" and that he "had a heart of gold, a tongue of silver, and the spine of a mollusk." But as a writer of fairy tales he has no equal and needs no apologies. "The Shepherdess and the Sweep" is a typical Andersen fairy tale. The heroine is the same charming, undeveloped girl of almost all the fairy tales and the hero is the same gentle, handsome, and fearless young man, and their love is of the kind visualized by children. Stripped, the story is the old one of the hard parent who wished his only daughter to marry for money and position. The daughter, however, chose to fall in love with a penniless young man. She had courage enough to run away with him, but not courage enough to face the big, unkind world. She forced the young man back to the starting place, and weakly hoped that something would happen so that they could be married and still live within the protection of the little world she had known. That something happened, of course. The hard parent's vanity was hurt—hurt so badly that rather than disclose his little shame to the suitor he had chosen, he allowed the girl to remain with her lover. The story is so perfect that one would not want to change a word nor an idea. It has all the charm and delicacy of a faintly tinted flower or a piece' of filagree work, 477 and it has about it the fragrance that goes with a delightful short story. It is interesting to note how - well Andersen has identified his inanimate objects with their true characteristics. There is the old Chinese who preferred to stand either in silence or to sleep rather than to argue or exert himself and who was too proud to tell the world about the rivet in his back; the potpourri-jar with its sweetish sentimentality; and the china girl who was made of such fragile stuff that' she could not live in the rough world. Questions: "Henrik and Rosalie' What situation furnishes the conflict for this story? What is the conflict? Are you conscious of the changed point of view when you read the story? In what ways were Henrik and Rosalie alike? How did they differ fundamentally? What things definitely mark this as a Danish story? When the lovers were re-united, which one was first to recognize that the old ties might still exist. Why?: Why did Henrik conceal the reason for his chance coming to the country estate? What incidents furnish the local color in this story? How many characters are clearly portrayed? Show that the author either knows or does not know how to portray character. ° "The Shepherdess and the Sweep" What are some of the ear marks of an Andersen fairy tale? Use this story as a basis for your answer. Name other fairy tales written by Andersen. If possible have some member of the class relate briefly the story of "The Emperor's New Clothes." 478 It has been said that everything Andersen's fancy touched, it invested with life and beauty. Show how this is done in the story of the Shepherdess. To what objects does he give personification? What things in the story show that Andersen often had the viewpoint of a child? Point: out definite style marks. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Is there a moral to this story? Which is the more important, the character element or the touch of fantasy? State briefly the theme or underlying thought of the story. Is the "Shepherdess and _ the Sweep" typically Danish, or is it world-wide in its application. Social Service (Fourth Week in October) PERSONALITY STUDY: PsyCHOLOGY AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT (Based on Overstreet—Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 1-41.) In the June issue of the Magasine page 322 will be found a brief introduction to the coming season's lesson work in this department. We may here add that although we shall find our text of last year helpful again, the proposal is not another hasty skimming through that very interesting and stimulating 'book. Many have expressed a desire to master it more thoroughly—especially those parts that we tended most to slight last season. A sincere effort will be made to make a new and fresh approach to some of the phases of our general topic which are considered most helpful and practical as a basis for intelligent social service work. Also by trying to make the Magazine lessons rather easy and attractive it is hoped that an even wider circle of women and, perhaps, men too, will become actively interested in studying these lessons and in undertaking that most worthwhile of all jobs—the improving and enriching of their own lives. But let no one be deceived into thinking that the aims of this course of lessons can be accomplished by women coming together once a month merely to be entertained by some resourceful person in charge of the lesson presentation. _We are glad that we have evidence that an increasing number of our members are equipping themselves individually with the printed lesson material, that they are quite willing to look up the occasional difficult word in a good dictionary, and that they are showing a most commendable earnestness in the somewhat difficult matter of increasing their personal efficiency. — It is our privilege in these lessons, to become better acquainted with some of the findings of a comparatively new science which just now is attracting more than ordinary attention and interest among intelligent and progressive layman. This mew science-psychology has come to deal more and more with matters of vital concern to everybody and fortunately there is an increasing disposition on the part of reputable psychologists themselves to write and speak in terms that are not very difficult for us all to understand. Where formerly the very term "psychology" tended to confuse, mystify and even frighten the average man, it is now quite generally understood as referring simply to that branch of science which deals LESSON DEPARTMENT with mental life and behavior. Most of us have come to realize that we have already picked up a good deal about the facts and principles of mental activity and that we have long been making use of our understanding of human nature in the various relations of our daily lives. What we need is a more vivid realization of the fact that too much of our incidentally acquired knowledge of human nature is incomplete and even inaccurate. One of the benefits of this course should be a more widespread ability to quickly recognize the marks of what we might call quack psychology. We shall not be so easily taken in by the strange mixtures of good common sense, high sounding big words and expensive bunk dispensed over the radio, in so-called free lectures and in "consultations"' by a certain class of itinerant soclal parasites who generally succeed in getting themselves announced as "eminent psychologists". We shall not share with the superstitious and the uninformed a lot of pitifully naive notions about '"'will-power", "thought vibrations", "spiritual psychology", "character reading''; "laws of success", "temperament analysis', "numerology", "the luck of chain letters", etc. We Shall learn to check up just a little on these "renowned authorities" by looking up their scientific standing in such accounts as those given in "American Men of Science', "Who's Who in America', and the American Psychological Association Year Book". Even in using directories like these we shall need to learn to discriminate between those whose training has qualified them in psychololgy and those who may be especially trained in other specialized fields. We shall learn not to waste time with books or magazines with words like "psychology" and 'psychological' in 479 their titles if they can not be endorsed by the responsible people in charge of the psychology departments of our reputable colleges and universities. Let us very briefly illustrate the need of taking precautions here such as we should take in obtaining the services of a competent optician or surgeon. Not very long ago a Salt Lake City newspaper gave an account of the apprehension in Nevada of an ex-minister of the Gospel who some weeks previously had been operating in Salt Lake City as a "psychologist" giving "free" matrimonial, vocational, and business advice. His first move was to get himself introduced before a local church congregation as a famous psychologist. In fact he gave one of his inspirational free lectures before a large audience in the church building with the approval and apparent gratitude of the resident minister. Soon he was "helping" credulous people place "sure thing" bets on horse races down in Texas. It later developed that he had gone on to greener pastures carrying with him hundreds of dollars belonging to the people he had so easily duped. Just yesterday the writer was told of how another quack psychologist had practically broken an otherwise happy home by his prying questions, his insinuating guesses and flattering comments made to an interested woman who had been tempted to make several appointments for private consultations with this unscrupulous all-knowing individual. An other so-called practical '"'psychologist" with apparently good sponsorship recently gave a free lecture in each of a number of the larger cities of the state in which he played the local business men against the outside mail order houses and made interesting and attractive promises of his ability to furnish the long 480 sought-for antedote in the shape of five short evening periods of instruction. The "course" was said to be suitable for 'not only salesmen, but also physicians, dentists, lawyers, bankers, secretaries, teachers * * everyone * *". Although he seemed much opposed to our sending money out of the state and would have us stick to our home products yet he had us flocking to him in groups of 500 for wholesale "instruction" and paying our individual $10 contributions so that he was able to take thousands of dollars of our money with him out of the state in payment for his very brief services telling us amusing stories and giving the information and misinformation which incidentally went along with them. Almost every year this thing is repeated! The hopeful thing is that so many of us are anxious to have our everyday psychology overhauled. The increasing number and improved reliability of the magazine articles on the subject is good evidence on this point. A recent list of the twelve non-fiction books in most demand in the public libraries of America included Menninger's, The Human Mind, and Dimnet's The Art of. Thinking. Typical among the popular accounts of psychology which have come into the writer's hands during the last few months are Webb and Morgan's, Strategy in Handling People and Strecker and Appel's, Discovering Ourselves, A View of the Human Mind and How it Works.. For still further evidence of this popular recognition of the value of psychology; the reader is asked to consider the first paragraph of the author's foreword in our text. Surely it will be well for us too, to glean from reliable sources whatever of psychology will help us to become more effective in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE what Overstreet calls the ani. In practically all of this widespread interest in psychology, we see evidences that what we really want to know about is personality. We want to be able to understand and control human behavior as exhibited in our neighbors and associates. We also want to better understand ourselves and, if possible, to develop more attractive personal qualities. Two very inadequate notions of personality are still somewhat common. One stresses heredity and a rather hopeless general attitude. It is an arbitrary "gift of the gods'-——a. Wholly mysterious something over which we have no control. The other puts almost the entire emphasis upon mere external and physical accessories—such things as stylish clothing, eye lashes, grooming, cosmetics, jewelry, etc. The reader will find it both amusing and instructive to inquire just what is meant when people speak so glibly about this or that individual having such or such personality or about yet others whom, they say, have no personality at all. Too often you will find highly perfumed snobs, flattering sycophants, or people with mere oily manners, spoken of with approval and envy as actually having splendid, sparkling, or winsome personalities. This course of lessons should help rid us of any such vague or trivial notions of this frequently used term. We shall do well not to become over-impressed by mere propaganda which emphasizes heredity too much and environment too little. Perhaps we shall never fully understand just the relative importance of heredity on the one hand and environment on the other. However we can insist that the problem should not be unduly simplified, that the available facts be carefully analyzed, and that our con- "supreme LESSON DEPARTMENT clusions be drawn with a sufficient amount of caution. As to the biological or physical inheritance of mental and personality traits our conclusions at the present time should not be too hastily drawn. The frequently quoted Jukes-Edwards Kallikak "evidence" has recently been so much discredited that the latest edition of the 'Encyclopedia Britannica does not even so much as mention it in its splendid articles on "Heredity", "Eugenics", and "Mendelism." E. G. Conklin well expresses a sane modern attitude on this problem in an article from which the following is a brief quotation: "Particularly in the study of the development of mental and moral traits there is great need of caution against over-simplification. The web of hereditary, environmental and educational causes is so intricate that it is often impossible to decide whether a given trait is inherited or not, and it is usually impossible to predict what the character of offspring will be. * * * Undoubtedly the factors or causes of all kinds of development are found in heredity and environment, but with regard to the development of the most complex thing in all the world, viz., human personality, we are as children in the morning of time." Educators are recognizing that theirs is primarily the task of passing on to the child the great "spiritual possessions of the race', the institutions of civilization, or what has been called our 'Social Heredity." Personality is largely a matter of habit systems that have developed as a result of the experiences and the training through which we have passed, especially those of our early childhood. Carr says it "comprises all those traits and characteristics that make or mar our efficiency in 481 getting along with people, such as our courtesy, persuasiveness, determination, adaptability, self-confidence, attractiveness, etc." If we have not allowed ourselves to become too set in our ways then our personalities are still in the making. To deal effectively with such a complex thing as personality we had better not try to handle it all at once, but rather a small part at a time. It is being emphasized 'by competent psychologists that very significant and lasting personality traits are formed during infancy and that the chances that some of them will later be greatly modified during this life are very slight. Other traits are not so firmly fixed and it behooves us to 'improve many of them and to keep ourselves plastic and teachable as long as possible. The ideal of Latter-day Saints is to preserve the meek or teachable attitude throughout eternity. We should never allow our personalities to shrivel up or to cease to grow. When we really come to appreciate what the term, "personality" means as defined in modern psychological and 'philosophical discussions, we shall not wonder at those writers who say that "persons, not things, represent the only true values," or thet "the ultimate test or measure of the worth of an institution is the kind of personality it tends to produce." PROBLEMS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Consider carefully what to you was the most valuable thing learned in these lessons during the last season's work. 'Write it out briefly and come prepared to read your statement to the other members. What is your special interest in this course for the present season? 2. Most students develop the habit of marking their individually 482 owned books both as an aid in the mastery and as a convenient means disadvantages of too much underlining? Explain just how to use a better device—that of using one or more vertical lines in the outside margins of your text. (See Magazine for Augest, 1930, page 459.) 3. Try to give a clear explanation of just what is meant by the term, "psychology." How is common-sense psychology to be distinguished from scientific psychology? What are some of the common uses and abuses of psychology? (A supplementary reference that will be found helpful on this problem is Poulson's Human Nature in Religtous Education, the Teacher Training text for 1927-28, pp. 1-3.) 4. Why do modern psychologists avoid listing a group of human instincts as a basis for their discussions of personality? They tend to stress social heredity rather than biological or physical heredity. What are some of the advantages of this newer attitude? (Supplementary help may be found in Poulson's 'Human Nature, pp. 8-12, 160-161.) 5. What are some of the unsatisfactory notions extant as to the nature of personality? Explain as nearly as you can what is meant by personality in the best sense of the word. Think of a few of the truly great personalities that you know most about and mention several of their essential and outstanding personal traits. To what extent do the ' following expressions describe these same individuals: (a) suave, (b) oily-mannered, (c) tolerant, (d) radRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of hastily reviewing. What are the ical, (e€) conservative, ({) fond of fashionable clothes, (g) aggressive, (h) one of the socially elite, (i) humble, (j) cheerful, (k) diffident, (1) courageous, (m) serious, and (n) candid. (A good dictionary may well be used in connection with this problem. ) 6. Find these phrases in the first twenty pages of our text and comment briefly on each: "our chief task in life,' "what modern psychology has to offer," "sincere but blundering,' "who is it that wins?," 'one of the chief ingredients of attractiveness,' "ways far more subtle than we suspect," '""A wiser canvasser rings the doorbell." 7. Give an original illustration or two of the "challenge" technique. What are its advantages. Tell of some interesting psychological observations which you have made since reading the first paragraph on page 26 of the text. Elaborate as well as you can, upon Overstreet's statement that "a father ought to induce his children to want to do what he wishes them to do." 8. Make a list of ten or a dozen fundamental human wants and comment upon the extent to which each has probably been acquired by the individual because of his experiences. 9, Let some member of the group prepare to read the first speech of Hotspur in Act I, Scene III of Shakespeare's Henry the Fourth, Part I. Comment briefly on the two different personalities that are contrasted in this speech. Mysteries the Canyon Conceals By Annie Tanner AVE you ever sat on a davH enport in a cliff dweller's home? If you have not, then you cannot appreciate the magic thrill experienced by Ali Baba when he said, 'Open Sesame," and the hidden door yawned open before him. All day I had been watching the We were very curious to know what these crude drawings meant, and asked our guide who told us, laughing as he did so, that in the language of the modern Utahn, this picture writing said, "This is the place." It was the place. Our climbing soon took us around a sharp turn, and there under an overshifting shadows, and their tie and dye effect on the colors of Lady Mountain. At last the time for our hike came, and the park naturalist guided us across the rocking suspension bridge and up one of the many well built trails in "Zion National Park." Soon we were passing through the different vegetations as we climbed from one life zone to another. Just as I was getting a wee bit shaky the naturalist said, "Do you see that picture writing high up on that cliff?" There, on a broad, bare cliff we could see the queer figures that make up the writing of an ancient people. Beckwith INDIAN WRITINGS ON CLIFFS OF UTAH hanging cliff, was the home of the cliff dweller. Gratefully I sat down on a huge rock, much the same shape as our davenports of today. As I sat there, I thought, "This must have been exactly where Mr. Cliff Dweller sat after a weary day's chase for rabbits on the lower floor of the canyon, or where Mrs. Cliff Dweller eased her tired body after climbing the steep mountain walls for haws or elder-berries." "So this is the cliff dweller's home," I said, "I never thought I should sit in such a home and gaze down on a modern and picturesque lodge so recently built on the old 484 hunting grounds of prehistoric man." There below me, at the foot of this magnificent mountain, were the results of the intellectual and physical powers of civilized man. Here by me were the crude walls that made the shelter for men who lived before the dawn of history. Just over my head were the black smoke stains, still very easily seen. Under the sand at my feet were the ashes of his last fire. The passing centuries had failed to obliterate these traces of his life. Under a rock in the corner were pieces of yucca fashioned for a sandal and over there on the floor was a chipped flint, its shape telling us that it was an arrow-head half made. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The large hollowed-out stone on its rock shelf relates its own story of the laborious task of grinding corn. All these mute witnesses told us the story of the cliff dweller; but who could tell us what strange event took him from his home in the cliffs? Did famine wipe out the entire family? Did they grow venturesome and go down the canyon on an exploring trip and meet the enemy they had guarded against for years, or did some more terrible catastrophe take them away from these glorious cliffs of safety? If Mr. Cliff Dweller could just step for a few minutes from his "Happy Hunting Grounds" what 2 wonderful tale he might tell us! A Grandmother's Lament By Susan Ray Grandmother has a lonely time This modern scientific day She is no longer oracle The doctor has the only say. She must not take the baby up No well-trained child is spoiled that way To cry a little make strong lungs At least that's what the mothers say. No rocking chair, with soothing rhythm No lullabies with sweet refrain No kissing hour, germs lurk around No baby talk, it is inane. She often thinks she'll steal a kiss From baby's chubby rosy toes. But that might give him athlete's foot. Oh dear, the way this sad world goes! All Day Outdoors Blossoms scenting up the air, Atmosphere is fine; All day outdoors sketching Thats the life divine In the shade to cook your dinner; Lots of things to cook, Lots of firewood all around, Everywhere you look. Hear the magpies in the willows, Hear them in the swale. Rabbils hiding in the brush; Here and there a quail Harry Neilson, artist and poet, author of the above sketch, is a recluse or hermit living alone in a rock hut near Orangeville, Utah. Mr. Neilson spends most of his time with his pens, inks, and water colors and has accumulated hundred of sketches and drawings. Some of his water-color sketches of flowers are exquisite. He had also made and decorated many Christmas and holiday cards. Among his pen drawings are fine sketches of animals especially of chickens, ducks, geese, and other domesticated animal. This drawing was obtained by H. R. Merrill during a visit to Mr. Neilson early in February. Our Customers Know You just know our fruits and vegetables are the best that the market affords. Every single article on our fruit stand is its own silent salesman. And an O. P. Skaggs System fruit department is truly a place "where quality talks." SKA Pe00 eaa "A Surety of Purity" FOR -- - ALL Painting Inside—Outside Use BENNETT'S Palas PAINT PRODUCTS Manufactured and sold by Bennett Glass & Paint Co. 61-65 W. First South, Salt Lake City Dealers Throughout Utah, Southern Idaho and Neighboring States. Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing ' a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M, Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishon's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Sesgo MILK fr Puddings Pies" Custards Creams Rival At All Grocer's When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ——— Handbook of the Relief Society @ In response to numerous requests for information and data on Relief Society work, a hand book has been issued by the General Board. It Gives— General information and historical data regarding the Society; The aims and objects of the organization; It is a ready reference on Relief Society work. Javanese Cover..............60c Cloth Cover....................85c & On Sale Room 28 Bishop's Building bistinctive society Printing See our specimens | | of | Modern Wedding | Invitations and Announcements The Deseret News Press | 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City t When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS CLARA SMITH BEAVER UTAH ha o¢ SOPHO RIOOO SOOO TOO STE VALUE Lies not in price alone, nor in quality alone— But when you find exactly the same quality at a lower price, that's VALUE wWwYv The Beneficial is a leader in its field because of value—the one company offering Variticizpating Indananee/ Mi Love Kors Sernticiypeting Rater All Beneficial Policy Holders share in the net earnings of The BIG HOME COMPANY 9999S OOGHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHOOOF BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE 60. Home Office Salt Lake City GOSS 99O SOOO 9999999990999 OH When Buying Mention Relief 'Society Magazine + hn hn han hi bn bhi hn bon hb bn in i tn hp te i tn hn on i bo tn i Se 4 HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Manager ELIEF SOCIETY AZAZINE 