[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | April | Issue: 22 | Title: WOMAN'S MIND EQUAL TO MAN'S. | Author: Unknown]

WOMAN'S MIND EQUAL TO MAN'S.

	America has been richly blessed in its women
of patriotism, intelligence, usefulness, and
moral worth. It has been a marvel to many
in the Old World that the women of the New
World have been, in so many instances, so
thoroughly cultured, so admirably developed,
morally and intellectually, when they have
lived amid so much that was new and crude
in society.
	A cultured Christian lady, living in her
beautiful Scottish home, once wrote, "It seems
to me that by the freedom of America I was
lifted up to a higher and a diviner life and a
tender and reverent expectation of glorious
possibilities for our race and especially that
of woman."

[Column 2]

	The record of the noble lives of women in
our broad land during the century of American
Independence will prove that though society
may have been imperfect in many respects,
yet, propriety and growth consists ever with a
righteous freedom, a true liberty, which is
under holy law.
	Others may write or speak eloquently of
patriots, inventors, warriors, and other public
men but we should be abundantly satisfied if
we may so present the truth about American
women as to prove that the nation is indebted
for its growth and prosperity as a people and
for its proud position among the nations of
the earth to its women as well as to its men.
	But ere we proceed further let us learn
what woman is, "Every woman is a daughter
of Almighty God as every man is His son.
Each was created in the divine image and
for each the path of duty and destiny is the same.
As the sky bends over both, so around His sons
and His daughters, alike the Almighty places
the arm of His protecting love. He has given
them varied labors but the same capacities
for intellectual social, and moral advancement.
He has given to neither power over the other,
man was not made subject to woman nor
should woman be subject to man. Neither
man's rights nor woman's rights should be
considered, but human rights—the rights of 
each, the rights of all."
	Men and women rise or fall together.
History clearly shows that no nation can en-
slave its women but it insures its own barbarism.
In proportion as society advances in culture,
women are freed from an unholy tyranny,
and, in that righteous freedom, are able to do
much for the world's advancement. Every
civilized nation owes much to its women. The
progress of every nation is marked by the ad-
vancment of its women.
	We cannot forget that woman has had for
ages, to advance with man along the path of
savagery and struggle up with him, to the
present era of Christianity. And as we glance
along the pathway of vanished centuries, we
cannot fail to see that every step of human
progress, from brutal savagism to this exalted
state of civilization, the result of mental and
moral culture, which is enjoyed in Europe
and America, has been accompanied by the
loosening of the chains of selfishness and the
thraldom in which too often the soul is held by
animal propensities, and thus woman has ad-
vanced to a loftier position and to a happier
sphere.
	There are but few who will not allow that
feminine characteristics are of a finer nature
than those that are purely masculine; at least
the naturally kind disposition of the woman's
heart has been contrasted to that of the man's
sometimes, with seeming justice, to the dis
paragement of the latter.
	We find a fitting illustration of this in the
conduct displayed by women on the occasion
of the great tragedy of Calvary. "Men alone
clamored for the blood of Jesus. No woman's
voice, thank God was heard among the clamor.
A man betrayed him and for a very gross,
material consideration. A man condemned
him to death; the man's wife, in greater pity,
begged that his life might be spared. Men
heartlessly deserted him in the hour of his
trial. Of his chosen friends and disciples, the
men, in a cowardly manner, ran away and
left him in the hands of his destroyer.
Woman followed him shedding tears of sym-
pathy and pity. Woman alone pressed her
way to the very foot of the cross, and there
poured out her prayers and tears in behalf of
the world's dying martyr. Woman embalmed
his precious body. Woman first greeted him
when he burst the bonds of death and triumphed
over the grave.

	"Not she with traitorous lips the Master stung:
	Not she denied him with a liar's tongue;

[Column 3]

	She when Apostles fled, had power to brave,
		Last at the cross, and earliest at the grave."

	'Twas woman who was first commissioned to
go and proclaim the glad tidings of his resu-
rection, And woman to day stands among the
foremost in her Master's work—a true
disciple and among the purest representatives of
His divine life the world affords.
	One great writer says, "In proportion as
woman is elevated and promoted will the
divine will of Jesus prevail; and in the ratio
that that prevails will women be lifted out of
her subject state." He goes on to picture the
future of the world when the woman of coming
centuries shall do fully the work God has given
them to do. "I have no doubt," said he, "but
am fully persuaded, that emancipated, en-
lightened, and enfranchised, she will be equal
to the demand. Commissioned by the Great
Father and clothed in the armor of affection,
she will go forth to conquer the world with 
the sword of the spirit. The shining hosts of
heaven will enlist under her banner of love
and Christ himself will lead the way. The
whole world will surrender to her divine com-
mand, and before her triumphant march the
powers of darkness flee. Prisons will be
transformed into schools, and saloons and
brothels be turned into markets and homes of
purity. Inebriates will shake off the demon
spell that enslaves them, and stand erect in
their manhood. Oppression's yoke will be
broken, and the clanking chains of the captive
be heard in the land no more forever. Navies
will be turned into ships of commerce, and
the implements of death be beaten into the
the implements of life."
	Tracing the path of Scripture record we find
the women of Israel often the chosen instru-
ments of God to teach and exhort His people.
Deborah was given the sweet and tender title
of "Mother in Israel." So beautiful in char-
acter, so noble in life, her genius was superior
to any recorded in the history of the Hebrews,
and she alone has escaped unreproved by
prophets and historians. Others might be
mentioned such as Queen Esther, Naomi, and
Ruth but time will not permit us to dwell longer
on this subject.
	Next let us take the annals of profane
history. Go back in imagination to ancient
Greece and Rome. There we find the beauti-
ful Lucretia and the excellent Cornelia com-
mended to all the world. Indeed, Cicero said,
"Had Cornelia not been a woman she would
have deserved the first place among philoso-
phers." Had she not been a Woman! 'Tis
ever thus. Woman is not permitted or allowed
her rights simply because she bears the noble
name of woman.
	Again let us not forget to mention the noble
women of Sparta. Heroines every one of them.
The Spartan soldiers, were exceptionally brave
because they had such heroic mothers. A
Spartan son who was about to depart for the
battle field, was handed his sword by his
mother with the words "Return it as a conquor
or a corpse." Thus proving that she prefered
death to cowardice.
	Take for instance the life of the Empress
Josephine of France. Had Napoleon taken
her advice he never would have lost the famous
battle of Waterloo or have been banished a
prisoner to St. Helena. Her mind far sur-
passed his. Still speaking of the heroic women
of France let us briefly review the wonderful
act of Charlotte Corday who stabbed the enemy
of her country to the heart and then suffered
death on the scaffold. Even after her head
had been severed from her body and one of
the executioners made an insulting action by
holding it up and slapping the pure cheek, the
beautiful eyes of Charlotte opened, 'tis stated,
and cast a look of indignation on the brute, thus
proving (should the statement be true, and
'tis made on good authority) that consciousness


[Column 1]

﻿had survived even the separation of the head
from the body. What mind can we find that
was greater than hers? What man has ever
performed a more courageous act than Charlotte
Corday?
	England with its marvelous historic and
classic treasures owes much to its women.
We will mention but two to day. First, the
good queen Victoria. She who has ruled for
over half a century and has had a more peace-
ful reign than any preceding monarch. She
has shown more wisdom and intelligence in
governing her people than any man who ever
held the sceptre. History also tells us that
England owes much of its present prosperity
to Queen Elizabeth, whose mind was equal if
not superior to any of the English rulers
	Spain next presents itself to our view. Of
course, we at once think of Isabella. Yes; and
had it not been for this excellent woman,
Columbus might never have discovered
America. He had asked assistance at almost
every court in the land but had been refused
by all of them. Almost ready to give up in
despair, he went to Isabella who possessing a
rarer and more intelligent mind. stepped for-
ward and extended a helping hand to the
great man to whom we owe so much.
	But it is reserved for America to show to
the world the rarest excellence of woman in
the exercise of the largest and truest liberty
the world has ever known.
	Those brave old pioneer women, Widow
Storey for instance. "After her husband had
been killed, she undertook the task of clearing
a farm on which she might rear and support
her ten fatherless children." And this bold
resolution she carried out to the letter, in
spite of every difficulty, hardship, and danger
which for years constantly beset her in her
solitary location in the woods. Acre after
acre of the dense and dark forest melted away
before the axe, which she handled with the
dexterity of the most experienced chopper."
She used the rifle, with unerring aim, and
supported her hardy brood of children, pro-
tecting them from the Indians and wild beasts
of the New England forest.
	It is said that when the Pilgrims first landed
at Plymouth Rock a beautiful young maiden,
May Chilton, was the first to step on the snow-
clad rocks of the New World. 'Twas in the
"Mayflower" that 18 faithful wives sailed from
their own beautiful homes to the one inhabited
only by the wily and vengeful savage." On the
unfloored hut, she who had been nurtured amid
the rich carpets and curtains of the mother-
land rocked her babe and complained not.
Pounded the coarse Indian corn for her child-
ren's bread, and bade them ask God's blessing
ere they took their scanty portions. When
the snows sifted throughhe miserable roofs
and fell upon her little ones, she gathered them
closer to her bosom; taught them the Bible
and the Holy Hymns, though the whoop of
the savage rang through the forest. She in-
fused new life into her husband by her firm-
ness and solaced his weary hours with her
love.
	While the Nation honors the Pilgrim
Fathers let it not fail to give due reverence to
the memory of the Pilgrim Mothers. May the
pages of history blaze with the glory of their
spotless fame.
	Who has not heard of Hannah Duston?
When she and her babe were taken captive by
the Indians and marched away from her
friends and family, her heart agonized by her
approaching fate, yet she was brave and de-
termined and planned her escape. She watched
until the Indian braves had fallen asleap,
then, with her nurse, she stole with her toma-
hawk and striking vigorously and fleetly' soon
10 out of the 12 sleeping braves lay dead
before her and another mortally wounded.
Then taking the scalps as trophies of her

[Column 2]

victory, she decended the river in a bark canoe
to the English settlements. Her daring deed
has filled all the world with wonder and ad-
miration. Let me only ask "What man has
ever performed a more heroic act the that of
Hannah Duston?
	We must not forget the mother of our
great president George Washington. 'Twas
she who trained her son in noble simplicity
and was best pleased when she saw him good
rather than great. A famous European,
after gazing on her for a few moments said;
"If such are the women of America it is no
wonder the sons are so illustrious." Her
handsome monument bears only the simple
words, "Mary the mother of Washington."
	Now let us briefly present the women of the
Revolution. Elizabeth Martin, who with the
spirit of a Spartan said to her seven brave sons
who were about to depart for the battle-field.
"Go my brave sons. Fight for your country.
Fight till death if you must, but never let
your country be dishonored. Were I a man
I would go with you."
	Anna Warner, Grace Martin and Major
Molly who, when her husband was killed took
his place at the cannon and remained until the
loud hurrahs of freedom burst on the air. The
poet has truly said.

	"Proud were they by such to stand,
	In hammock, fort, and glen; 
	To load the sure old rifle,  
	To run the leaden ball,
	To watch a battling husbands's place,
	And fill it, should he fall"

Hundreds of names of illustrious women could
be mentioned who fought for our freedom
and whose bravery and valor entitle them to
honorable remembrance. Their names should
stand side by side with those who signed the
Declaration of Independence, and pledged to
the cause of liberty, "their lives their fortunes
and their sacred honor."
	Who can deny that the wives of the presi-
dents have done more for intellectual and
moral advancment than the presidents them-
selves. The wives of our greatest senators and
presidents have made their husbands what
they are. Women have ever been the leaders
of society and on them depends what our social
position is.
	The women in the Civil War were a noble
band. Many heroic deeds were done and many
lives sacrificed for the government of liberty
and law.

"Whispered low the dying soldier pressed her hand and
	faintly smiled;
Was that pitying face his mother’s? did she watch beside
	her child?
All his stranger words with meaning her woman’s heart
	supplied,
With her kiss upon his forhead "Mother" murmured he
	and died,"

	Women as "philanthropists have surpassed
men. An instance is related of Dorothea L.
Dix who was called "the prisoner's friend." On
one occasion this lady was cautioned not to ap-
proach a raving maniac. He yelled fright-
fully day and night and was so violent that it
was supposed he would murder any one who
ventured within his reach. She approached
with the Bible and read in a low, sweet tone to
him,—he paused, his shouts gradually subsided
and when she ceased he uttered, "Read me
some more, it does me good, Lady, God sent
you." Some one making a slight noise attracted
his attention, and he exclaimed "Hush! hush!
there are angels with us." What mind of man
has ever had more power over the insane than
the one posessed by this gentle woman.
	The literary women have been equal and
many have surpassed men. Her works have
been written with a more attractive inspired
pen. No poems can surpass those of our own
great Eliza R. Snow Smith. We might

[Column 3]

mention scores of them if time would
permit.
	As lecturers, reformers, preachers, educators,
physicians, readers, actors and singers, as
printers, lawyers, inventors, journalists, in fact
in every vocation of life woman's mind has
equalled man's.

"Read the fresh annals of our land the gathering dust of
	time
Nor yet has fallen on the scroll to dim the tale sublime;
There woman's glory proudly shines, for willingly she gave
Her costliest jewels to uphold the generous and the brave,
Who fought her country's battle well and oft she periled
	life
To save a brother, father, friend, in thise dark years of
	strife,
Whatever strong-armed man hath wrought; whatever he
	hath won,
That goal hath woman also reached, that action she hath
	done."
