[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | April | Issue: 22 | Title: R. S. GENERAL CONFERENCE. | Author: Unknown]

R. S. GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The first Annual Conference of the Relief
Society of all the Stakes of Zion, was held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this City on
Monday, April 7, 1890 commencing at 10 a. m.
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding. On the


[Column 1]

stand with her were her Counselors Mrs. J. S.
Richards and Mrs. B. W. Smith, the Secretary
Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Treasurer Mrs. M. I.
Horne also the Cor Sec'y. Mrs. E. B. Wells and
Assistant Sec'y., Dr. R. B. Pratt. Presidents
of R. S. of the several Stakes of Zion were
seated in one of the stands.
	There was a large congregation of women with
a few men scattered here and there, Confer-
ence opened by singing,

	"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah."

	Prayer was offered by Mrs. M. I. Horne,
continued by singing,

	"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation."

	Minutes of the forenoon of last semi annual
Conference were read and approved. Pres.
Zina Young welcomed the congregation in her
most happy manner, said we were living in a
peculiar time, yet never felt better, realized the
beginning of the end was near at hand; felt so
anxious concerning the daughters of Zion, that
she would give her life, if it would save them
from the many snares and temptations sur-
rounding them at the present time. Asked
the sisters in the most earnest manner if any
of them had hard feelings towards another;
she would wait a few moments to give them
time for reflection;—sisters if you have hard
feelings waive them, put them away. It is our
duty to train the children that they may be
prepared for the work they will have to do
"We sorrow because of persecution, but God
reigns and all things will work together for
good for those that serve Him. He also rules
the elements, and the calamities that are now
coming have been predicted by His servants,
and we cannot avert them, any more than
Joseph of old could when he foresaw the
scourges that were coming upon his brethren;
he knew it but could not hinder it neither can
we. We mourn the conditions that have
brought about these things, and we desire to
assist in elevating humanity and bless the
world; we must learn to be charitable and to
love each other. Sisters remember sixty years
ago yesterday this Church was organized with
six members, in that first little meeting."
	Dr. Pratt then read a part of the statistical
and financial report from the several Stakes,
after which Mrs. S. M. Kimball made some
suitable remarks, sympathized with the au-
dience in having to listen to the report, but ex-
plained that it was a part of the labors of the
Relief Society. The Prophet Joseph said a
part of our labor was to learn to do business
in a parliamentary manner, it is not interesting
to all but it is an important matter.
	Pres. M. John R. S. Utah Stake gave a brief
report of the organizations and remarked that
she felt proud of the labors of the sisters, and
also spoke of the work they had done in silk
culture and felt to bless all.
	Pres. M. Pitchforth, R. S. Juab Stake, "we
have the gifts of the Gospel with us and if we
have not these we have "the still small voice,"
and we are striving to live the religion we
profess. We have been brought to this land
by the power of God;" said she was the first to
receive the Gospel in the town where she lived
when only fifteen years old, and she prayed
then for the faith that the Elders had who
preached to them, and her faith  had grown
with the years; "though we came to these
valleys a little handful we have become
a wealthy people, and our wealth increases,
may our faith also increase; I know God is at
the helm and He will guide the ship of Zion
safely," she felt with Sister Zina that these were
trying times but never felt better.
	Dr. Pratt finished reading the report which
was accepted.
	 Hon. A. Maitland Stenhouse Ex. Member of
Parliament from Canada, then addressed the
meeting by the invitation of the President. He
esteemed it a privilege to stand in the presence

[Column 2]

of so large an assembly of the saints, whose
history and whose works have constituted the
evolution of the kingdom of God: expressed
his belief in the divinity of the Prophet Joseph
and that the primitive Church was under the
direct influence of the Holy Ghost. Realized
that 1800 years the Church had been without
prophets and Apostles the true Church was
withdrawn and no representative of it was upon
the earth; admitted that there had been a
sublime power that had blest and elevated
humanity and that had lifted up the people
in one land after another, but the ministers of
the Latter-day Saints preach the Gospel every-
where without money and without price.
The speaker alluded in the most favorable
terms to the Rev. Edward Irving a dis-
tinguished Presdyterian who had made a wide
mark from all other preachers, and from this
teachings had grown up the Apostolic Catholic
faith. His was an earnest, eloquent nature.
He added many other remarks on this and
other subjects of interest.
	The Conference was adjourned until 2 p. m.
singing,

	"Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing."

	Benediction by Mrs. B. W. Smith.
	Afternoon session: singing,

	"Guide us O, Thou Great Jehovah."

Prayer by Mrs. Minerva W. Snow, singing,

	"How firm a foundation."

	Minutes of the evening session of the Con-
ference in October last read and accepted.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde Pres. R. S. Sanpete Stake,
made the opening speech, said she had been
fifty years in the Church, and one year after 
she gathered with the Saints to Nauvoo; bore
testimony to the divinity of Joseph Smith's
mission and spoke concerning the divine truths
taught by him, of which she was a living wit-
ness; she also spoke earnestly upon charity,
thought we should stir up each other's minds
by way of remembrance. Relieving the wants
of the poor and comforting the sorrowful was
a great work and in it the sisters were blest;
spoke highly of the industry of the sisters in
Sanpete; they had been diligent in storing up
wheat, and performing the duties of the 
Society.
	Mrs. Adeline Barber Pres. of R. S. Cache
Stake, reported the organizations over which
she presided, praised the sisters for their good
works in the various duties devolving upon
them, rejoiced in her labors, and also that she
was a worker in the Temple, reported the
Canada branch of the Relief Society. Spoke
of the storing of grain and taking care of it,
some of the brethren did not see the necessity
of it, and it was very discouraging; felt we
were engaged in a great work, that the living
had the privilege of working for the dead.
	Mrs. Mary Jane Hendricks, Counselor in the
R. S. Oneida Stake, said they visited the settle-
ments and tried to encourage and help along
the several branches, spoke highly of the
President and bore a good testimony.
	Mrs. Ellen W. Lunt Pres. of R. S. Paro-
wan Stake represented in a very able manner
the situation in the few branches in that Stake;
felt happy in performing her duties, they had
good Presidents and an efficient corps of
teachers. In Cedar City they had made a
commencement in the silk-culture, and they
were much interested in the storing of grain.
Testified that the hand of the Lord had been
over her from childhood.
	Pres. Z. D. H. Young addressed the as-
sembly, spoke at some length upon cheerful-
ness, "it is through trials we gain the blessing
and when we are cheerful our trials are only
half as hard to bear; there is a sermon in the two
words, 'God rules.' President Brigham Young
had made  the remark if he had another
family to raise he would have his wives and

[Column 3]

children pay their own tithing, it would be
giving practical lessons upon the principle,"
urged mothers to teach their children these
things early in life. The speaker then gave
some special instruction to the Relief Society
applicable in all its branches in the several
Stakes of Zion and specially denounced raffl-
ing under all circumstances; gave some ex-
cellent suggestions in regard to nursing the
sick. The President spoke upon the im-
portant position the teachers occupy, and that
their labors were such as required the prompt-
ings of the Holy Spirit, said there need be no
President over the teachers except the Presi-
dent of the Society. Exhorted mothers to be
like angels in the household—to bring love to
all, and kindness; we should love each other
and our God; the world drives us to love each
other, we are shut out from them; more than
a thousand wives and mothers, whose husbands
cannot associate with them on account of the
enforcement of the special laws made for us.
It used to be said that those who sub-
dued the earth and caused the grass to grow
on desert land were philanthropists, but this
people do these things and yet are condemned.
Alluded to the report which was read in the
morning, and spoke of the little nucleus out of
which this magnificent result had grown; re-
ferred to keeping the Sabbath day holy; spoke
encouragingly to those that had come long dis-
tances, and alluded to the example of the
Savior and his appearing to Mary and Martha
after his resurrection, prayed for the blessing
of the Lord upon all, that we might work to-
gether in joy and peace and success crown our
labors.
	Mrs. L. M. Hart Counselor in R. S. Bear
Lake Stake, reported the sisters there alive to
their duties, and doing all the good possible,
there is a minority not diligent but the ma-
jority are. "There are 16 branches in the Stake
including Soda Springs, Pres. Lindsey is un-
tiring in her labors. Pres. Budge gives the
sisters much encouragement. We are seldom
visited by the sisters from Salt Lake City;
though we have Sister Horne occasionally
and we appreciate it." Bore a strong testimony
and knew all would be well with those who
perform their duties faithfully.
	Mrs. Annie W. Larson Pres. of R. S. Emery
Stake, said she tried to go round the Stake
regularly, they tried to sustain the poor and
help the missionaries; they were not a wealthy
people but were willing to divide; it was not a
grain country, yet the sisters had laid up some,
she knew this was the kingdom of God; they
had received good counsel from brethren and
sisters who had visited them.
	Mrs. Susan Grant, Pres. of Davis Stake
spoke highly of the Presidents and sisters in that
locality; said the President of the Stake and
his Counselors met with them in the Conferences
and gave them good counsel and instruction,
urged the mothers to teach their children the
principle of tithing and also to instil faith
into their young and tender minds; thought
much responsibility rested upon the mothers.
	Mrs. Ann Tate Cor. Sec'y., of R. S. Tooele
Stake gave a good report of the labors of the
sisters in that vicinity and added some farther
remarks testifying of the work in which we
are engaged.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Counselor to the
President Mrs. Young, realized that the meet-
ing had been a long one and yet there were a
few items to be touched upon, hoped we should
all think over what had been said about
cheerfulness and not only receive it but re-
member it, and do all things with a cheerful
heart; let us all try and live here so we can
have a few friends to welcome us on the other
side, if she failed in that she would want to 
come back. "We had a big report read here
 to-day of the condition of the Relief Society,
and there is a great work being accomplished,


We are all trying to assist in it. I have heard
here to-day in the reports from some of the
Presidents that they only hold Conferences
semi annually; President Young organized the
Weber Stake Relief Society just shortly before
his death and appointed Quarterly Conferences;
soon afterwards he went to Brigham City and
Mr. Richards and I went with him, he insisted
on my going, said he had many things he
wanted to talk to me about, and in his con-
versation he always said Quarterly Confer-
ences, and my mind is that we keep up the
Conferences Quarterly, we need these meetings
for our spiritual benefit; and I must say I feel
bad when the sisters don't take care of their
wheat, it is a duty laid upon us to store grain,"
and Pres. Taylor made the remark to me that
he would not dare to use the wheat nor do
anything with it, Pres. Woodruff had used the
same expression when spoken to concerning it.
The speaker then referred to the Primary As-
sociation, and said "that is one of the best in-
stitutions we have, and we Relief Society
folks are grandmothers to the Primaries, if we
are not mothers to the Young Ladies, we
should do all in our power to help the Primary
and encourage those who have charge of them
and labor so diligently. Sisters we need to 
take more care of our health, don't work all
the time; some say they have two meetings a
month and one of them a working meeting;
now sisters we must not over work, go and visit
the Primary and the Young Ladies' mettings,
it is a great labor spiritually and may the
Spirit of the Lord help us to perform all our
duties, and live uprightly that we may minister
to the needy and comfort and encourage those
who are weak and bowed down with sorrow,
a kind word is always good for all, may we
profit by the good things we have heard and 
be able to overcome, is my prayer."
	Mrs. M. I. Horne Pres. R. S. Salt Lake
Stake, reported briefly, she had visited nearly
all the branches in this Stake during the last
few months; spoke of the Young Ladies' Asso-
ciations and the Primaries and the good work
being done in these organizations; said the
last Primary Conference in this hall was the
largest that had ever assembled here; thought
that the spiritual and temporal blessings could
not be separated, they went together, even in
building Temples and officiating therein.
	The congregation sang two verses of the
hymn,

	"The spirit of God like a fire is burning"

	The Cor. Sec'y., then read the written reports
received from the following Stakes, Bannock,
Cassia, Maricopa, Snowflake, St. Joseph's, San
Luis, St. George, Kanab, Beaver, and Sevier.
Mrs. Young and Mrs. Kimball each made
brief remarks. The congregation rose and
sung the Doxology and the benediction was
pronounced by Mrs. M. A. Hyde, the Confer-
ence adjourned for six months.
		E. B. W. Cor. Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

