Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in November. , WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. ELIZABETH AND ANNA. (Read chapter 1 of Luke, verses 5 to 25, 39 to 43, and 57 to 66, for Elizabeth and verses 36 to 38, inclusive, of the chapter; for Anna.) These two women are characters in the New Testament, and make their appearance, either directly or indirectly, in connection with Christ. Elizabeth was the mother of John the Baptist. Like her husband at the time their son was born, she was "well stricken in years." Her home is thought to be in the south, at Hebron or near there. Her husband, Zacharias, was a priest. This fact, if we were inclined to venture into the realm of conjecture, would give us a clue to the nature of her life. It would be a retired life, for one thing, and more deeply colored by religion, for another, than most other contemporary women. Not to Elizabeth, but to her husband, did the angel come to announce the birth of John. We do not know, of course, why this was, and it would be foolish to surmise the reason. Zacharias, it would appear, had been praying for a son, notwithstanding his old age. It is not difficult to imagine that this petition had been uttered year after year, as he came to the temple to perform his part of the sacred work there, and that, moreover, it had become a merely mechanical part of his prayer, just as often happens with us. This would account for his surprise when an angel informed him that his prayer had been heard and that his wife should bear him a son, whose name was to be John; just as some of us would be surprised if something we had been praying for in a mechanical way for years should come true. But this, to be sure, is not expressly said in the text. At all events, the prayer was answered Elizabeth "conceived, and hid herself five months." In due course of time John was born. And here we get a small insight into Elizabeth's nature. For, when this event happened, her relatives wanted to name the child Zacharias, after his father, but she said, "Not so but he shall be called John." They argued with her, but she insisted on her point. Evidently, therefore, Elizabeth had kept the whole matter to herself. On this, Zacharias' tongue was loosed, which had been bound since the angelic visitation in the temple. Filled with the Holy Ghost, he praised God and predicted that the child would "be called the Prophet of the Highest" and "go before the face of the Lord to prepare His ways." Before the birth of her own child Elizabeth uttered these memorable words, to her cousin Mary, who was about to become the mother of Jesus, which reveal something of her character: "Blessed art thou among women," she said, "and blessed is the fruit of thy womb. Whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me? For, lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. And blessed is she that believed; for there shall be a performance of those things which were told her from the Lord." Here, then, is the atmosphere in which Elizabeth lived, at least for a time? the longing of a Hebrew woman for a child (and this longing, as we shall see in the lesson that follows, was different from that of the woman of any other nation), the priestly life of her husband, the constant association with the temple and with everything that was sacred to the Jews of those days, the miracle of her conception in her old age when the "manner of women" was past with her, the constant knowledge that something unusual attached to her unborn child, something associated with the Messiah. All this would have a tremendous effect on any devout woman, most of all on a devout Hebrew woman. Anna, says Luke, was a "prophetess." Hence she must have been somewhat of a character locally. The same historian informs us that she was "the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher." Being eighty-four years of age, she had "lived with a husband" but seven years "from her virginity." All the rest of the time she had been a widow. She devoted her whole life to the service of God, for we are told that "she departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers night and day." The only time she makes her appearance in the New Testament is when Jesus, a babe in his mother's arms, is brought to the temple "to do for him after the customs of the law." Coming into the court at the instant that Simeon was giving his blessing and prophecy over the infant Savior, she "gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all that looked for the redemption in Jerusalem." From the little that is said in the biblical narrative concerning Anna, we gather that she was a devout religionist and that she was a woman of great intelligence and faith for she both understood and believed in the promises touching the Messiah and in their fulfilment in Christ. Not only so, but Luke, in the phrase, "she spake of him to all that looked for the redemption 
 in Jerusalem," makes her one of the first, if not the first, to advocate acceptance of the Christ. QUESTIONS. 1. Give an account of what happened to Elizabeth, so far as we know it. 2. Contrast her with her husband in respect to faith. 3. Why did she "hide herself" for five months? 4. What would be her probable feelings regarding her condition as to her child? 5. Can you infer anything concerning the character of Elizabeth from the fact that she had this miracle happen to her? If so, what? 6. Give the details concerning Anna's life? What kind of woman was she? Give your reasons.