PLEASANT GATHERING.

	Some of the most intimate friends of Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne met at her residence on the eve-
ning of Nov. 18, by invitation of her daughters,
who had ingeniously prepared this little surprise
for their mother, during her absence on a tour
through Wasatch Co. The party was in honor
of the anniversary of the lady's birth, and had
been carefully arranged, the guests convening
while she was purposely detained away on some
pretext. The girls had provided an elaborate
and delicious dinner, to which the guests did
ample justice. Among those who participated
in the enjoyments of the evening were Hon.
George Q. Cannon and wife, Hon. D. H. Wells
and wife, Hon. R. T. Burton and wife, George
H. Taylor, Esq., and wife, Sisters Eliza R. S.
Smith, S. M. Kimball, Marinda N. Hyde, E.
Howard, B. W. Smith, Jane Richardson, E.
Hales, S. J. Spencer and others beside the fam-
ily.
	The time was spent in social conversation, and
some good old-fashioned music and singing by
the sons and daughters of the family was ad-
mirably rendered, which was very enjoyable to
all. Towards the close of the evening, President
Cannon responded to a request of Mrs. Horne's
in a short speech, expressing the kind feelings
he entertained for the family, and referring to
the many agreeable associations of the past in
that house. Spoke of the sweet interchange of
feeling which existed among the Saints, and his
appreciation of such enjoyments. One after an-
other followed in a few words of congratulation
and good wishes, all expressing the kindliest
feelings for Brother and Sister Horne and their
amiable family. We add our congratulations to
those of her "dear five hundred friends," and
trust that her useful life may be prolonged, and
that she may yet reap an abundant harvest in
return for the good seed she has sown in Zion,
and that not only shall her husband praise her,
and her children rise up and call her blessed,
but thousands of others who are familiar with
her good works and labors among the people.
