LETTER.

	October 29, 1881.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Madaine—At the next Washington
Convention it is intended by the N. W. S. As-
sociation to make an unprecedented effort to
command the attention of Congress, and to se-
cure from that body the passage of certain
bills.
	Never has there been so favorable an oppor-
tunity to present our grievances, never so flat-
tering a prospect of securing their redress.
The question of woman's political status has
become an issue in many of the States. From
at least one-third of the States representatives
and senators will go up to the National Con-
gress conscious that their constituencies will be
called upon to decide some point of the suf-
frage question at home within the next twelve
or twenty-four months.
	With this knowledge, before going to Wash-
ington they must already have given some
thought to the problem of woman's relation to
the Government, and they will thus in a mea-
sure be prepared for its consideration.
	It is to be hoped that the proposition for a
XVIth Amendment will be passed by the
present Congress, as sixteen years have elapsed
since we first made our demand for National
Protection. Whether to be passed or again
rejected, such a proposition will, without doubt,
be submitted. It is moreover certain that an
attempt will be made to secure the appoint-
ment of a standing committee in both houses,
whose business it shall be to consider the peti-
tions and demands of women citizens.
	That the coming Convention may be so
wisely managed as to secure from Congress the
justice above indicated, it is desirable that a
committee of leading suffragists, representing
the different sections of the country, be sent to
Washington a fortnight preceding the date of
the Convention, to do the preliminary work
necessary to the best success of the meeting.
Before beginning their work at Washington it
is desirable that the committee have reliable
data as to the attitude of each member of Con-
gress toward the Sixteenth Amendment and
the Standing Committee. We therefore re-
quest you, either by correspondence or by per-
sonal interview with the Delegate from your
Territory, to secure such a knowledge of his
views as will enable you to fill out the enclosed
set of blanks. As it will be the duty of the
Chairman of the Executive Committee to col
late the information thus obtained, please for
ward the blanks to her address (May Wrigh


Sewell, 405 North Pennsylvania street, Indian-
apolis, Indiana).
	Upon the data to be thus secured, our suc-
cess this winter at the National Capital very
largely depends. Every report should be in
Mrs. Sewall's hands by December 15.
	Begging you neither to neglect nor delay a
response to this appeal, we are, most cordially,
	Yours for Equal Suffrage,
		ELIZABETH CADY STANTON,
				President N. W. S. A.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
		MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE,
				Vice Presidents at Large.
		RACHEL G. FOSTER,
				Corresponding Secretary.
		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
			Chairman Executive Committee.


