A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

ZINA D. H. Young.
		CONTINUED.
	In the journey of the Saints from Nauvoo,
it is well known to those acquainted with the
facts, there were several settlements made by
the way, resting places for the poor, weary ex-
iles: over one of these, called Mt. Pisgah,
Father Huntington was appointed to preside,
and his daughter, Zina D., with her two little
boys, remained with her father temporarily.
None but those who have experienced something
of the hardships of pioneer life, can comprehend
the many trials and difficulties bravely encoun-
tered by the women of the Latter-day Saints
during this exodus and their journeying to the
valley.
	Sister Zina very pathetically describes some
of the incidents which transpired at Mt. Pis-
gah. Sickness visited the camp; the Saints
were weary and worn with travel and over-
exertion, and fell an easy prey to the destroyer,
when once attacked with illness which pros-
trated them. There were no delicacies to be
procured for those in ill health; though loving
hands might minister, and all that tender care
could do might be done, but in many instances
it could not save, and one after another suc-
cumbed to disease and death. Sister Zina
says: "Sickness was so prevalent, and deaths so
frequent, that help enough could not be ob-
tained to make coffins, and many of the dead
were wrapped in their grave clothes and buried
with split logs at the bottom of the grave and
brush at the sides, that being all that could be
done for them by their mourning friends. Too
soon it became my turn to mourn. My father
was taken sick, and in eighteen days he died.
Like my dear mother, who died in the expul-
sion from Missouri, he died in the exodus from
Nauvoo. Sad was my heart. I alone of all
his children was there to mourn. It was a sol-
emn day at Mt. Pisgah when my father was
buried. The poor and needy had lost a friend,
the kingdom of God a faithful servant. There
upon the hillside was his resting place. The
graveyard was so near that I could hear the
wolves howling as they visited the spot; those
hungry monsters, who fain would have unsep-
ulchred those sacred bones! Those days of
trial and grief were succeeded by my journey
to Winter Quarters, where, in due time, I ar-
rived with my two little boys, and was warmly
welcomed by President Young into his family.”
	In Winter Quarters Sister Zina was engaged
much of the time among the sick, for, possess-
ing as she does  an eminent degree that deli-
cacy of sympathy which brings to the human
heart sweet consolation when under the most
painful afflictions, she found an ample field to
labor in, and by ministering to the spiritual
and temporal needs of the Saints, in those days
of severe trial and adversity, she engrafted
herself into the affections of the people with
whom she was associated, and the memory of
her good works will live in their hearts for
ever.
 The absence of the pioneers on their journey
to the Rocky Mountains was a time of great
anxiety to those who remained behind, and es-
pecially to those whose fathers, husbands and
brothers were members of that memorable
company. The sisters held regular meetings,
to pray and exercise faith for the pioneers. At
these meetings Sister Zina was a regular at-
tendant, and she is largely endowed with spir-
ituality, which qualifies her admirably as an
active worker in such a capacity. She has,
perhaps; as perfect a gift of interpretation of
tongues as any person in the Church, for al-
though her opportunities for education in lan-
guage have been limited, and she is not a poet
or rhymer, yet she gives the interpretation of
hymns, psalms and sacred songs in the most
musical and happy manner, without thought or
hesitation. There is something divinely beau-
tiful in thus rendering, by the gift of inspira-
tion, words uttered in an unknown tongue.
These seasons of refreshing among the sisters
helped them to endure the weary day and al-
most sleepless nights, while those they so ten-
derly loved were plodding the sandy plains,
wending their way through an unknown coun-
try to the then "promised land." After the
pioneers returned with the good news of their
wonderful success in finding a peaceful home
for the people of God, the homeless exiles, such
preparations as could be made were arranged;
every one was busy, and there was a little time
to visit or associate together, except in families.
	Sister Zina, with President Young's family,
left Winter Quarters in May, 1848, and shared
in the grand march to the mountains the privi-
lege of walking, driving team, cooking out of
doors, washing when camped near a river, and
in all the various hardships of camp life.
Happy and light-hearted, always ready to bless
and comfort others with kind words and cheery
smiles. President  Young and his family reached
the valley in September; his family remained in
wagons and tents until he could build shelters
from the inclements weather fast approaching.
On the hillside, just above and a little behind
where the BEE-HIVE house stands now, a row
of cottages was built of logs, comfortable and
shutting out the cold, though the dirt roofs
were scarcely protection from rain. In one of
these Sister Zina spent the first few years in
the valley; her time was almost entirely occu-
pied with household duties, for in those day
everything must be done at home, candles,
soap, starch, molasses and many other articles
were manufactured by the sisters; there was
little machinery of any kind. And then there
was carding, spining, dying, knitting, weav-
ing, besides the making and mending of cloth-
ing, in addition to ordinary household duties.
Sister Zina rather excelled in most of these
domestic pursuits, and her hands were always
busy. She has ever been an early rise, which
is a great advantage in all industrial occupa-
tions; still she found time to help others when
any were sick, or in need of a friend. In her
humble log cabin she enjoyed much domestic
happiness, for the touch of a woman's hand re-
fines and adorns the humble walls of the sim-
plest cottage of the poor where love dwells, as
well as the prouder, loftier mansions of the
rich. Peace and contentment reigned in these
quiet, unpretending homes of the Saints.
Here, too, an event occurred which gave
new zest to her home enjoyments; beneath this
rustic roof, on the 3rd of April, 1851, a beau-
tiful daughter was born to Sister Zina and
Brigham Young. The mother never considered
for a moment the hardship of childbirth under
these circumstances, for it bore no comparison
with other trying ordeals through which she
and her sisters had been called to pass. They
called the babe Zina, for its mother, and no
princess of royal blood was ever more fondly
beloved, or more tenderly cared for, than this
little one, for Sister Zina has ever been a de-
voted mother.
 Subsequently, the Lion House was erected,
the log row, as it was called, was no longer oc-
cupied for dwellings, and in that house was
Sister Zina’s home. Here her children grew
to manhood and womanhood, under the guid-
ing care and protection of a wise and loving
father and mother. Sister Zina has also, in
addition to her own family, had charge of sev-
erael other children. After the death of Mrs.
Clarissa Chase Young, to Sister Zina was com-
mitted the care of her three children, a son,
Willard, and two daughters, Maria and Phebe;
she took them to her heart and cherished them
as her own; the children returned to her affection
and grew up under her care and guidance.
To be continued.


