				WASATCH.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
cieties of Wasatch Stake convened in Heber
City Hall, Nov. 11, 1881. Present on the
stand were President Emma Brown and her
second Counselor, Mary Daybell, Presidents of
the Heber Ward Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I.
A. and Primary Associations; also Prest.
Hatch, Bishop Murdock, Patriarch Hicken and
other brethren. We also had the great plea-
sure of having Sisters M. I. Horne and E.
Howard to visit and talk to us during our Con-
ference. After the usual opening exercises,
minutes of the last Conference were read and
accepted, also the reports of the various Relief
Societies, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Asso-
ciations, which were very favorable. The sev-
eral presidents of branch societies gave verbal
reports, which were very encouraging.
	Sister Horne gave us some excellent counsel.
Said the sisters should attend their meetings, it
is their duty; they should be faithful in teach-
ing their children the principles of truth,
which, if adhered to, will make them honor-
able members in the Church and Kingdom of
God. To see that our children are at home
nights, not roaming about the streets learning
things not calculated to improve their minds.
Made many other suggestions intended to leave
a good impression. Meeting adjourned until
two o'clock p. m.

[Column 2]
	Afternoon session; Singing. Prayer by
Bro. McGee. Singing. Verbal reports were
then given by the several presidents of the Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary Assoiations. Sister
Howard gave some good counsel; said we
should always read good books, and pray to
our Father that we may always have His Spirit
to be with us to guide us in every action of
our lives. Exhorted the sisters to educate
their children in obedience and virtue, to read
all good books, and entreated them not to send
them to secretarian schools. Thought that
mothers should encourage their sons when
called upon missions, to be willing to respond.
Spoke on plural marriage; said it was a right
and true principle, and was revealed for the
improvement, refinement and salvation of the
human family. Told the sisters they should
all be united in their faith and work together
for the building up of the Kingdom of God,
and not follow too much after the fashions of
the world.
	Sister Horne instructed the sisters to store
up grain for the time of need. Said the Lord
has blessed us thus far, and if we try to do
right He will continue to bless us. Exhorted
the mothers to train their children in the fear
of God, and be punctual in sending them to
the Primary Associations.
	Prest. Emma Brown then thanked the sis-
ters for coming to visit us. Conference ad-
journed for three months. Singing, "Praise to
the man who communed with Jehovah. Bene-
diction by Prest. Hatch.
		MARY BRONSON, Sec'y.
		AVIS M. BRONSON, Asst. Sec'y.

