PEACE AND GOOD WILL.

	"Peace and good will towards all men." At
this season of the year, when Christmas is just
at hand, one is forcibly reminded of the message
the angel brought at the birth of the Savior,
whose advent is commemorated on this auspi-
cious day. How happy all might be if these
precious words were only practically echoed in
the daily lives of those who profess Christianity.
All the heartaches, scenes of sorrow and suffer-
ing would be more or less modified and soothed,
were mankind to follow the suggestion made by
the angel—"peace and good will towards all
men." Let the reader reflect—how is it with
those who aim to be the followers of the meek
and lowly One born in Bethlehem of Judea?
	The Chief Executive of the nation has just
issued his salutatory message. He touched upon
all the great national questions fairly perhaps,
but upon Utah and the Mormons he speaks em-
phatically, as determined to carry out measures
calculated to uproot the system Mormons have
established. He is mistaken in his views of the
matter, like many of his predecessors in office—
however, we shall see whether Congress will aid
the people in promoting peace and good govern-
ment in the Territory, or introduce strife and
anarchy. Peace is the motto of the true
Gospel banner introduced by the birth of Jesus.
There has been misery and wretchedness enough,
the result of wars and contentions; and by all
possible means, the most powerful potentate of a
free nation should seek to bind the people to-
gether under a banner of peace, instead of sow-
ing the seeds of injustice and oppression.
	Those who peril their lives, their all, to settle
new lands and increase the wealth and power of
any nation are usually fostered by that govern-
ment in whose interest these risks are incurred;
but for Utah, the desert reclaimed from sterility
by the Mormon exiles, there is no encourage-
ment, or symyathy with the people, who have
proven their loyalty to the Constitution again
and again. But now, of all times, when attempts
are being made to take from this people every
right and privilege dear to American hearts, how
magnanimous to have the sublime courage to
say, "Father, forgive them, for they know not
what they do."
	Looking from a natural standpoint, one would
think, from the bills being introduced into Con-
gress and the various anti-polygamy gold and
crimson petitions offered for the enforcement of
severe measures towards this people, that the
Mormons ought to fear and tremble; yet we see
no manifestations of this kind whatever. The
people trust in that God whom they are trying
to serve, and they have steadfast faith in His
promises. It seems strange that all the wicked
misrepresentations made by the opponents of
the Mormon faith should be so readily believed
by men who pride themselves upon statesman-
ship. There is always two sides to every ques-
tion, and both should be heard; but in too many

[Column 2]
instances judgment is formed upon the first hear-
ing, and all other testimony is rejected. But
stringent measures such as are being talked of,
the breaking up of family relations which now
exist, etc., will not only result in increased per-
plexity and compound multiplication and com-
plication of the difficult problem, which is too
abstruse for the solution of it by those who
only deal with it from an outward view.
	But at Christmas time this an unpleasant
topic, especially for the young. All disagreeable
feeling should be laid aside, and whatever the
future may have in store, the present teems with
plenty, and in the midst of such prosperity as the
Saints have been blest with the past season, peace
and happiness should be in every heart, at least
during the Christmas holidays. Let that
Christian charity which is long-suffering,
merciful and tender extend towards all mankind.
It should be a time of reconciliation and forgive-
ness; if any have unkindness in their hearts let
them banish it, and cherish only those feelings
which elevate and purify and ennoble the human
soul. This has been a season of unusual pros-
perity, although there has been some sickness;
yet taking it all in all there has been much to
rejoice over and to be abundantly grateful for,
and surrounded as this people are with blessings,
they should not forget to praise Him from whom
all blessings flow, and to remember the poor,
that blessings may be multiplied in future.


