MISCELLANEOUS

	MOTHER OF PEARL.—Mother-of-Pearl is
chiefly obtained from the pearl oyster—Melea-
grina Margaritifera—which is found in the
Gulf of California, at Panama, Cubagua, Cey-
lon, Madagascar, Swan River, Manila and the
Society Islands. The black-lipped shells from
Manila are most highly prized. The Society
Islands furnish the silver-lipped sort, and Pan-
ama the "bullock" shells. The peculiar and
varied tints exhibited by mother-of-pearl is due
to the structure of its surface, which, owing to


the great multitude of minute grooves upon it
—often many thousands to the inch—decom-
poses the light that falls upon it and reflects
different hues.

	SLEEP FOR CHILDREN.—There is no dan-
ger that children can sleep too much. The
old proverb, "He who sleeps eats," is illustrated
in those little ones who sleep most. Wakeful
children are almost always peevish, irritable
and lean. If they can be induced to sleep
abundantly, they are quite likely to become
good-natured and plump. Their sleep should
be, as much during the hours of darkness as
possible, and therefore it is better that they
should go to bed before sunset to have their
sleep out, than to lie long after sunrise in the
morning. It is well to let any healthful grow-
ing child or young person sleep until he wakes
himself, and give him such variety and amount
of out-door exercise as shall make him glad
when bed-time returns.

	IGNORANCE.—Probably there is no quality
more efficient in dispelling ignorance than the
courage which dares to confess it. The child
learns fast, simply because he has no self-
conscious fear of being thought uninformed.
He asks all manner of questions without any
qualm of misgiving, and exposes his own defi-
ciencies without any feeling of shame or dis-
tress. It is by his free and eager inquiries
that he improves so rapidly. Were he afraid
to show his ignorance, no one could help him
out of it. The enforced school lessons would
comprise nearly the whole of his education,
and even they could not be adapted to his
individual mental needs. As it is, every genial
and kind-hearted person with whom he comes
in contact is interested in adding to his stock
of knowledge. The same privilege might be
enjoyed by the adult, did not a feeling of shame
prevent him from seeking knowledge in the
same natural and simple way. But, as the
years pass, he comes to feel that the confession
of ignorance will expose him to ridicule, or
contempt, or censure, and he therefore hides it
under whatever pretext he can find.


