[COLUMN 2]

we find that genius often succumbs, where en-
ergy and endurance prevail. Neither do we
wish to ignore wealth, position, or natural tal-
ents. The individual who possesses these, ac-
companied with will and determination, will be
sure of success, and happy is he who is thus
favored.
	There is, however, no need for speculation
on the subject. No doubts need  be entertained
respecting our final success, if we adopt and
carry out the plans of those who have been
successful. Relying upon history, we find that
the most noted men, those who have stood upon
a pinnacle of greatness, have attained this de-
gree of eminence by their indomitable will and
perseverance. The genius may become famous
sooner than the man of ordinary abilities; but
to him who overcomes the greatest obstacles,
the greatest credit is due.
	But how often we attribute to natural abil-
ity that which is the result of energy and per-
severance. The admirer of a lovely picture
might be heard to exclaim: "That artist has a
refined soul, rare genius, lofty imagination,"
etc. He forgets that the parts in the picture
which demand his praise are the result of a
careful and life-long stndy. Or, perhaps we
visit the theatre to witness the skill of some re-
nowned musician; and while we watch with
wonder the dexterity of his movements, and are
enraptured by the soul inspiring strains, we
often become oblivious to the fact that years
of patient toil and persevering practice were
necessary to attain such a degree of excellence.
The scientific lecturer, who, by his diligent re-
searches after knowledge, has made himself
acquainted with the laws and objects of na-
ture, may elicit from his audience expressions
like these: "What keen perception!" "What
profound thought!" "A mind capable of
penetrating the deepest recesses and bringing
to light the hidden mysteries." No doubt his
hearers become envious of his wealth of knowl-
edge, and perhaps some are ungenerous enough
to say that nature has been partial in the be-
stowal of her gifts.
	Neither should we be daunted by failure.
"Failures," it has been said, "are the stepping
stones to success." They excite to action and
show the necessity of additional perseverance.
	Franklin, Lincoln, Disraeli and others are
excellent examples of perseverance. They
show to us what can be accomplished by men
with a will and a determination to succeed.
Nor need we go beyond our own community
for self-made men. Our late, esteemed friend,
Orson Pratt, was a good illustration of this
class of men. It was due to his untiring ener-
gy and continual delving after knowledge that
he rose from obscurity to occupy the front
ranks, so that as an astronomer and mathema-
tician he was seldom surpassed, or even equaled.
	"What man has done, man can do," has been
truthfully said. Remember that we have the
power to become good and great, if we so order
our lives; or we may become the reverse by
encouraging idleness and succumbing to diffi-
culties.						   CAMEO.
	December 6, 1881.


MRS. Garfield is now settled with her three
younger children in their new home on Euclid
avenue, Cleveland. They will remain there
until April, and will then return to Mentor.
The elder Mrs. Garfield will spend the winter
with the widow of her son.


