BIRTHDAY PARTY.
				-----
	Friday, Nov. 25, 1881, was the 67th anniver-
sary of Sister Rhoda A. Miller’s birthday, wife
of Bishop Reuben Miller; and the officers and
members of the Relief Society of Mill Creek,
wishing to express their respect for her as their
president, and appreciation of her labors in the
interest of the poor and other good works, ar-
ranged to give her a surprise party, and at 11
o’clock about one hundred of her friends met at
the ward meeting house, and from there pro-
ceeded to the residence of Sister Miller. The 
party was under the direction of her counselors
and the presiding teachers.
	An address written for the occasion was read
by the secretary, after which Sister Miller was
presented with a picture of the Presidency of
the Church and Twelve Apostles, with her
name and age and the names of those who pre-
sented it in letters of gold.
	The Bishop and Counselors being present by
invitation, were called upon to make a few re-
marks. The Bishop said he hoped they were
deserving of the respect shown them, it did him
good to see the sisters. Spoke of his health,
that his disease was one that might take him off 
at any time, and he was thankful that he had
been faithful in this Gospel. He was very much
affected and overjoyed by the presence of so
many of the members of the ward, and felt to
prize the picture very highly; he would not take
a thousand dollars for it if he could not get an-
other.
	Counselor Alexander Hill made some very
good remarks in honor of Sister Miller; said he
had been acquainted with her a great many
years, and had always found her a good, moth-
erly woman, ready to assist the poor and needy.
	Washington Lemon also made some very good
and instructive remarks.
	President R. A. Miller said the picture was
very nice, but her sisters were more dear to her
than anything else, and it made her feel good to
see their happy faces, and she felt grateful to
them for their good will, and felt to bless them
all with peace and plenty.
	We were then favored with some very melo-
dious music from the Mill Creek band.
	Tables were set with all kinds of delicious
food furnished by the ladies of the party. The
people were seated, and Bishop Miller pro-
nounced the blessing. After dinner was over,
all the food that was left (which was an im-
mense quantity) was packed up and sent to the
poor of the ward.
	The whole affair was kept a profound secret
from Sister Miller until the guests had assem-
bled.  The party was a complete success, and a
good spirit prevailed throughout.  In conclusion
we say, God bless Sister Miller, and may her re-
maining days on earth be spent in the same no-
ble and useful manner as her past life has been.
