							LYDIA D. ALDER.

	The loved and much lamented Mrs. S. M.
Heywood has gone from our midst.
	Sister Sarepta M. Heywood was born Nov. 22,
1823, and died Dec. 4, 1881, in Salt Lake City,
Utah. She was married to Joseph L. Heywood
May 29, 1841, in Beloit, Wisconsin; had six chil-
dren, three sons and three daughters. She had
followed one son and two daughters to the grave,

[Column 2]
and two sons and a daughter live to mourn her
loss.
	My first acquaintance with this estimable lady
was in 1842, in the city of Quincy, Illinois, not
far from the time when she joined the Church
of Latter-day Saints. On our first acquain-
tance a kindred feeling drew us together, and
that congeniality which ever exists between
kindred spirits has strengthened our love and
union through a long and very intimate acquain-
tance. To our mutual gratification, a kind Provi-
dence so ordered that when we located in Salt
Lake City our homes were on the same block,
where we have lived near neighbors and dear
friends twenty-eight years.
	When, in February, 1866, we were organized
into a Relief Society, (with the approval of our
Bishop) I chose her as my first Counselor in the
R. S. Board, and since that time we have worked
side by side in performing the many labors and
discharging the high responsibilities which de-
volved upon us, without a discordant feeling.
At all times and in all emergencies, she has been
a true friend and a wise counselor.
	As a Society, in her we have lost a firm sup-
port; and the poor, a good Samaritan in sickness.
She was an ever ready help in sorrow; her words
were like soothing balm, and her presence al-
ways cheering. But words are too weak to des-
cribe her noble worth—language too faint to ex-
press the feelings of my heart. And oh, may
God comfort the hearts of the bereaved children
of that kind and affectionate mother.
	In one of our Society meetings, a little pre-
vious to her last sickness, Sister Heywood made
the request of her sisters that, should she pass
away before us, we would sing "Weep, weep not
for me, Zion," at her funeral. The request was
complied with by the choir singing that beauti-
ful hymn in a very touching and impressive
manner, that came home to every heart; and
who could help weeping? In all that large and
crowded assembly apparently not one.
	Of Sister Heywood it may well be said,
"Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord."
She had "fought the good fight, she had kept
the faith," and had secured the blessed privilege
of "coming forth in the morning of the first
resurrection, crowned with glory, immortality
and eternal lives."
