				A. J. CROCHERON, Sec'y

	The meeting November 19 at the same place
was also well attended. Reports of Y. L. M. I.
A.were read from the 16th, 3d, 11th and 19th
Wards; P. A. from the 10th and 19th Wards.
	President Horne made the opening speech;
commenced by giving a brief sketch of her re-
cent visit to Wasatch Stake in company with
Sister E. Howard, and related some incidents
that transpired during their visits from place to
place.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith spoke of her journey
through the Southern settlements, of the pros-
perity of the Saints and the good condition of
the organizations. She had visited Payson,
Spanish Fork and Santaquin; at each of these
three meetings were held. At Goshen two
meetings, at Springville and at Provo three, and
after the other sisters returned she visited the
Fifth Ward, Provo, in company with Sister
Smoot. In all her labors she had been blest, and
everywhere had found precious, good sisters. In
closing her remarks Sister Elian blest the con-
gregation in the name of the Lord.
	Sister Ellen C. Clawson gave a brief account
of her trip to St. George, in company with Prest.
Taylor and party, and a beautiful description of
the Temple, and testified, as all do who visit it,
of the peaceful heavenly influence that pervades
that holy place.
	Sister Nancy A. Clark, President of Y. L. M.
L. A. Davis Stake, occupied  a few  moments in
speaking earnestly of the necessity of earning
an exaltation, and other relative subjects. Sis-
ter Mary Davis made a few good remarks. Then
followed reading of the minutes of a special
meeting of the officers of Y. L. M. I. A. of Salt
Lake City, held Nov. 12, at the residence of
Mrs. B. W. Smith.  Sang "Lord dismiss us."
Benediction by Mrs. E. S. Taylor.
				E. S. Taylor, Sec'y pro. Tem.

	The semi-monthly ladies' meeting in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday, Dec. 3, was a
very interesting one. Minutes were read from
Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. of several wards, fol-
lowed by interesting and instructive speeches
from Sisters Louie Felt, E. S. Taylor, E. How-
ard, J. Howe, E. C. S. Clawson, M. Steele and
M. I. Horne. These meetings are a great bene-
fit to the several organizations, for here express-
sion is given to the best thoughts of the speak-
ers in the most intelligent and able manner.
Subjects are lucidly treated upon that are calcu-
lated to promote the growth of the institutions
organized for the higher education of woman.

