CHRISTMAS.

	Christmas is coming! Christmas is coming!
is the cry sounding all around. All the shop
windows are filled with such pretty and won-
derful little things, making the children stare,
and shriek with delight. And many times we
hear some little voice say, "I wonder what
Santa Claus will bring to me." At home the
hands are all so busy, and every one is so very
sly, so as to keep the pretty gift a secret until
the merry day.
	Yes, the gay, joyous holiday is near, the
time of great rejoicings and fun-making; the
time when all hearts are filled with love and
kindness; the time when we truly feel to act
by the Golden Rule—do unto others as we
would be done by. The happy time brings
forth many sweet recollections in the hearts of
all. Children recall with the utmost joy the
bright Christmas tree, all glowing with its little
wax candles and glistening ornaments. With
what delight the toys are received, and what a
noisy day it is, with its trumpets and drums
and bells, and all its bright and pretty things.

[Column 2]
How wide the childish eyes open, and with
what gladness the little voices ring as the
bright, shining spectacle of the Christmas tree
is shown to them.
	Yes, such are the Christmas times now-a-days;
but I recall with sweet pleasure the time when
beautiful things were not quite so plentiful, but
the Christmas was just as gay. We had no
great evergreen trees then, all filled with shin-
ing lights and rare and costly toys, but we had
a line of little stockings all hanging round the
chimney corner, and each little heart had per-
fect faith that Santa Claus would bring him or
her something nice- How we hated to go to
bed Christmas eve, thinking that if we might
sit up the great Christmas king would come
and we could see him; but he never comes
where little ones are naughty, so we had to
mind our dear mother, and saying a sweet
goodnight, we would bend in prayer, and then
hush softly to sleep.
	All was still and quiet, and I fancy now I
see the dear, kind heart moving noiselessly
around, filling the tiny stockings with the little
things that made our hearts so glad. Then in
the cold, frosty mornings—how early we used
to wake in those days—each little one would
pop out of bed, and claim her stocking so full
of goodies now, so empty when she saw it last;
with what unspeakable delight we used to
draw out, one by one, the little toy, the nuts,
the candy, all sweeter and prettier than ever
because it was Christmas. Yes, this was a day
when we laid aside all our troubles and harsh
feelings, when we all tried to make each other
truly happy.
	Let us pause in the midst of our fun and re-
joicings, and spend a few moments in sweet
thanksgiving for this blessed day. We will
think of Him who gave us light, who brought
the pure knowledge of Christianity, and of the
One who was crucified to redeem the world.
What a day should it be—the day when our
Savior was born! Rejoice all the world, and
sing praises for this blessed day, the anniver-
sary of the birth of our dear Savior. Yes,
the memories of this day are sweet; sweeter,
perhaps, by being mellowed with time. The
rejoicings of this day are happy, and happy
may they always be.
	A merry, bright Christmas to all my friends,
and may the future be as beautiful to you all
as the dear past is to me.
[handwritten] Annie Q. Cannon	ANNIE.


