BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	As Rogers (author of "Pleasures of Mem-
ory") says, "He who feels the infirmities of age,
dwells most on whatever reminds him of the
vigor and vivacity of his youth." We know
this to be true; and there is a tender and pleas-
ant melancholy which arises in the mind of
every one in the decline of life. He continutes:
"Nor are we pleased only with a review of the
brighter passages of life. Events, the most
distressing in their immediate consequences, are
often cherished in remembrance with a degree
of enthusiasm. This," he says, "is the lan-
guage of the heart, and will remind the reader
of that good-humored remark in one of Pope's
letters, 'I should hardly care to have an old
post pulled up, that I remembered ever since I
was a child.' "
	These words come home to the heart, and
remind us of similar attachment to the place
of our birth and objects and associations famil-
iar to us in early youth.
	Though pleasing the task, I often find it a
very difficult one to gather up the many broken
threads of the almost forgotten past, and weave
them into a shape for the persual of others,
and it is a pleasant relief, like a cooling draught
to the thirsty traveler, to find here and there a
scrap of our history interwoven with that of
others, bringing before us objects and scenes
which were once familiar, but had become dim
and nearly effaced from our memory by the
hand of time, which has been to me unsparing
in its ravages. How forcibly I am here re-
minded of my father's request, in a letter writ-
ten me in 1844, while upon his last mission to
the Eastern States, urging me to commence
then to write my life as far back as I could re-
member, and to tell my brother William to do
the same; "And then," said he, "you can put
all the letters I write you in their proper places,
and when I write my history yours shall go in
with it, to be handed down to our children for
them to read." I neglected to do so, and can
only look back with regret at not heeding his
wishes.
	In the Spring of 1842 father, with my
brother William's assistance, plowed and
planted us a garden. This he did every season,
but never had the privilege of reaping the
fruits of his labor until after he came to this
valley.
	It was a common thing for the Elders, who
left all to go forth to other lands to preach the
Gospel without purse or scrip, to return empty
handed and go to work chopping wood, build-
ing houses, planting, or any kind of labor to
support and provide food and raiment for them-
selves and families. They never thought of
complaining, but rejoiced in the knowledge
that they had been faithful in declaring the
truth to the honest in heart, and thought no
sacrifice too great in such a cause; and this
they have continued to do until the present
time. But where in all Christendom can there
be found any other class of men who would
willingly go forth, with no other source to look
to for assistance, but to Him Who commanded
that His Apostles should go forth into all the
world and preach the Gospel to every creature,
saying, "He that believeth and is baptized
shall be saved, but he that believeth not shall
be damned; and these signs shall follow them
that believe: in my name shall they cast out
devils; they shall speak in new tongues; they
shall take up serpents, and if they drink any
deadly thing it shall not hurt them; they shall
lay hands on the sick and they shall recover."
Peter said, "Is any sick among you? let him
call for the Elders of the Church, and let them
pray over him, anointing him with oil in the
name of the Lord," etc.
	These are among the doctrines which have

[Column 2]
been taught and practised by the Latter-day
Saints, and for which they were persecuted,
murdered, robbed and driven from State to
State and finally out of the Union, and the
majority of its inhabitants rejoiced at our ca-
lamities.
	On the 10th of September my father left us
to go on a mission through the southern part
of Illinois, in company with Prest. Brigham
Young, Elders George A. Smith and Amasa
Lyman. The following is from my father's
journal.
	"We proceeded to Quincy, and preached at
that place several times. The indifference of
the people and the little regard they appeared
to have for the Gospel, led me to reflect con-
siderably upon the hardness of their hearts and
situation. I went to bed and dreamed the fol-
lowing dream:
	"I thought I went out on a fishing excursion,
and whilst traveling up and down the stream
to find a good fishing place, I was astonished
to see so very few fish in the stream, and they
were small and very shy. After traveling a
while, I discovered some large fish lying across
the stream, dead, and which smelled exceedingly
bad. I then saw the reason why so few fish
went up stream, and why they were so small
and shy; it was in consequence of those dead
ones lying across the stream.
	"This is the dream; and in the morning the
following interpretation was strongly impressed
upon my mind. These dead fish represent the
dead members scattered abroad, hither and
thither, who are considered as members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
but are in fact but dead branches; they are
not complying with the revelations of God,
which command them to gather together to the
body. And as the branch of the vine cannot
gather sap and nourishment from the body
when separated from it, so the members of the
Church abroad, when commanded to gather to
the body, cannot receive life and intelligence
away from it, nor grow in the things of the
Kingdom of God, as is their privilege; and
such characters stand in the way of the Gos-
pel, and prevent many from obeying the Gos-
pel, through their neglect. I further thought
that it was not impossible that the bad smell
of the dead fish represented those people who
are to be met with, some with a chew of to-
bacco in their mouths, and some a pipe, and
others whose breath smells sufficiently strong
of whiskey to sicken a sober man when he
comes near them.
	"Much of our time was spent in endeavor-
ing to remove these obstacles, by persuading
the members to comply with the command-
ments given on the subject, that the channel
might be cleared and a way opened for more
live fish to pass up the stream; and we hoped
that we should yet see the stream full of live
fish, and the fishing places become exceedingly
good and live fish plentiful."
	The following interesting incident happened
in the family of Elder Sidney Rigdon, and I
heard him relate it upon the stand in the little
grove by the Temple. It was printed in the
Nauvoo Times and Seasons, where I read it a
short time since. It created quite a sensation
at the time among both old and young. Elder
Rigdon and family had been greatly afflicted,
and his body had become considerably ema-
ciated. For some time previous to this he had
been slackening in his duty. and his faith ac-
cordingly had weakened. His presence in the
congregation, sitting once more in his place by
the Prophet and his brethren, caused great re-
joicing among the Saints.
	He came, he said, not to renounce his faith
in Mormonism, as had been stated by enemies
and licentious presses, but to bear his testimony
of its truth, and add another to the many mi-
raculous evidences of the power of God, and
unfold unto the audience a scene of deep in-

[Column 3]
terest which had occured in his own family.
He had witnessed many instances of the power
of God in this Church, but never before had
seen the dead raised; yet this was a thing that
had actually taken place in his own family.
His youngest daughter, Eliza, who had been
very sick for a time, died. The doctor told
them that she was dead. After she had lain
in this state for a certain length of time, she
rose up in the bed. and in a very powerful and
supernatural tone spoke to the family to the
following effect: said she was going to leave
them, and had only come back to deliver her
message, and then depart again. The Lord
had said to her the very words she was about
to relate. She was so particular in relating it
that she would not allow them to leave out or
add one word. Before dying she had expressed
a great desire to live; but after her retnrn to
earth she expressed as strong a desire to go
back. She called her family around her and
bade them farewell. To her eldest sister she
said: "Nancy, it is in your heart to deny this
work; and if you do, the Lord says it will be
the damnation of your soul." To her sister
Sarah she said, "Sarah, we have but once to
die, and I would rather die now than wait for
another time." She told her sisters that the
Lord had great blessings in store for them if
they continued in the faith; and after deliver-
ing her message she swooned, but recovered
again. During this time she was cold, and the
only appearance of life was the power of speech.
She continued in this state till the following
evening—for the space of thirty-six hours—
when she called her father and told him that
the Lord had said to her, if he would cease
weeping for his sick daughter, and dry up his
tears, that he should have all the desires of his
heart; and that if he would go to bed and rest,
he should be comforted over his sick daughter,
for in the morning she should be getting better
and should get well. That the Lord had said
unto her, because that her father had dedicated
her to God and prayed to Him for her, that He
would give her back again. This ceremony
of dedicating and praying took place when she
was struggling in death, and continued to the
very moment of her departure; and she said
the Lord told her that it was because of this
that she must go back again, though she de-
sired to stay.
	She said concerning G. W. Robinson, her
brother-in-law, as he had denied the faith the
Lord had taken away one of his eye teeth; and
unless he repented He would take away another.
And concerning Dr. Bennett, that he was a
wicked man, and that the Lord would tread
him under His feet.
	This is but a small portion of what she re-
lated. It aroused Elder Rigdon from his mor-
bid state for a little season, but he soon sank
again into the same lethargy, from which he
never awoke until he heard of the martyrdom
of the Prophet, when he hurried back to Nau-
voo to claim the leadership of the Church.
Previous to this, having become weary in well-
doing, and having suffered enough, as he
thoughc, he had left his post and moved with
his family to Pittsburg.
			To be continued.


MRS. Matilda Joslyn Gage announces that
the National Citizen and Ballot Box, edited by
herself, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Su-
san B. Anthony, is suspended with the October
issue for the present. The health of Mrs.
Gage, she says, is not adequate to the exhaust-
ing labor of editing the National Citizen, and
also to doing her part on the Woman Suffrage
history to which she must now devote herself.
The Alpha, edited by Mrs. Winslow at Wash-
ington, will be supplied to the subscribers of
the National Citizen, until their time expires.
Mrs. Gage will also be heard through that
paper.


