MOTHERS VERSUS DIPHTHERIA 

	In the life of watchfulness and care to which
mothers are called, there is no foe so dreaded
as diphtheria. His approaches are so stealthy,
his coming so unexpected, that almost without
warning, his cruel hand is at the throat of the
victim, and the tenderest love, the most watch-
ful care, the greatest skill, are often powerless
to loosen the fatal hold. Scientists tell us that
this disease is a poisoning of the blood; now
the blood may be poisoned either by bad food
or bad air. Bad food I do not believe to be
very common in this land of plenty; good
bread is the rule, and good meat is found occa-
sionally in nearly every home. Many mothers
oversee with great care the diet of their chil-
dren; the nourishing oat-meal porridge and
pure milk are carefully supplied, and few are
the children accustomed to any variety of food,
who do not see on some tempting dish the ban
of mother's disapproval. She takes the same
care to supply pure air; rooms are often aired,
and any intrusion of sewer gas, or anything
else of a hurtful nature, is vigilantly guarded
against in the home.
	But there her power ends; her children spend
a large proportion of their waking hours in
school, but the tender care which elsewhere
surrounds them day and night cannot enter
those crowded portals. Nowhere is that care
more needed. Enter the schoolroom which the
city provides for your little ones, near the close
of the session; as you open the door, coming
from the pure outer air, you almost gasp for
breath. Here are perhaps sixty little children,
many of them wearing clothes not only soiled,
but filled with the mingled odors of their poor
homes, and their bodies, perhaps never thor-
oughly bathed since their babyhood. What a
volume of pure air it must take to replace that,
poisoned by the impurities thrown off, not only
by such bodies, but by sixty pairs of lungs!
One large schoolhouse in Boston, Chauncy Hall,
justly claims to be thoroughly ventilated; but
this result is accomplished at such a large ex-
pense, that we can hardly expect the system to 
be employed in the public schools. A cele-
brated writer on sanitary subjects is quoted in
the Journal of Education as saying that chil-
dren ought never to be kept through an entire
session in one room; the air becomes in a short
time unfit to breathe. I know that efforts are
made to keep the air pure by opening windows
at intervals, but such means cannot accomplish
much where the rooms are so crowded. In ad-
dition, the presence of water-closets in the base-
ment is sometimes quite evident to the visitor
upstairs. In my own neighborhood, an epi-
demic of diphtheria was traced directly to the
defective sanitary condition of a primary school
house; the condition of the building was im-
proved; but homes made desolate, and parents' 
hearts sorely wounded, remain to bear witness
to the evil. I once saw a class of little chil-
dren leaving school at the end of the afternoon
session; among them I recognized a dear child,


an only daughter and the idol of her home;
her face had an unhealthy flush, and as she
walked slowly homeward in the declining light
of the short day, I wished that instead of be-
ing confined all day in the close school room,
she might be playing out of doors in the fresh
air. In a few a weeks I heard the story of her
death from diphtheria, accompanied by an ex-
pression of wonder that that disease should
have attacked her in her healthful home; but
the cause did not seem so mysterious to me.
	But not only should the air in the school
room be pure, but children should be confined
there fewer hours. A wise physician; who had
attended a little boy through a long attack of
illness, impressed upon his mother, when he
began to recover, the necessity of his being
much in the open air. "But," objected the
mother, "he is subject to sore throat, would it
be well to send him out in all weather?" "If
the weather is very bad, it may be necessary to
keep him in a day, but let him be out all the
more the next day to make up for it." So often
was this advice repeated, that the mother could
not but follow it, and now the boy in his eighth
year is stout and strong, careless of fatigue,
throwing off easily any cold or slight indispo-
sition; he has never been to school a day in his
life, but spends an hour a day by his mother's
side learning his simple tasks, and nearly all
the rest of the day is out of doors. How dif-
ferent it is with a child who is sent to school
before the sun is very high, in these short win-
ter days. He must be in his seat, and, with
the exception of the intermission for dinner, is
not released until the sun is near its setting.
Surely our young children need more play-
time out of doors.
	Another thing closely affecting the health of
children in school is the amount and kind of
study required from them. I am told that
children between six and seven are expected to
answer promptly such questions as this: "Add
two-thirds of six and three-fourths of eight."
A mother reports to the Journal of Education
the really appalling task her daughter was re-
quired to commit to memory at home; and
mother of a young girl in the higher grades
does not feel the natural anxiety for her daugh-
ter's health, at that critical age very much in-
tensified by the mental work and nervous
worry caused by her efforts to keep up with
her class?
	Mothers, are you contented to have no voice
in determining measures and methods which so
much affect the health of your children? Will
you give up entirely to a body of men, whom
you have not chosen; that responsibility which
you would be jealous of giving up even to the
child's nearest friend next to yourself? Have
you not interest enough in these vital questions
to take the trouble, and submit to the small
expense of voting for school committee? With
the united vote of the women, what might not
be done for the schools? A board of men and
women might be chosen who would care for the
children as they never have been cared for, and
never can be cared for otherwise; but the num-
ber of women now voting is too small to be
felt.							F. E. B.
	—Woman's Journal


