EDITORIAL NOTES.
	ON Wednesday, Nov. 30, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Louie Felt visited North Jordan and met
with the Primary Association. The programme
was rendered in a very creditable manner.
	“OUR Boarding House” at the Theatre re-
cently by the Home Dramatic Club was a com-
plete success in all respects. The piece is a very
humorous one, and the acting was well done, or
perhaps some parts were over.done; yet it was
extremely amusing. Those who are fond of
high comedy should by all means see “Our
Boarding House” performed. 
	WE had the pleasure of attending the Sisters,
Conference of Tooele Stake, Dec. 10, 11 and 12
in company with Prest. Eliza R. S. Smith.
Prest. H. J. Grant, Apostle F. M. Lyman and
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant were present, and many
excellent speeches were made and much good
instruction given by the brethren and sisters.
An account of the Conference in detail will be
published in our next issue.
	WE are very much afraid that Prest. Arthur
is treading on dangerous ground when he takes
away such offices from women as have been
granted to them heretofore. The leaders of the
Woman Suffrage party will not silently submit
to any such indignity, and in the coming con-
vention to be held in Washington January next
he will in all probability hear from them em-
phatically. In fact he has very likely got into
or very near to a hornet’s nest.
	CHRISTMAS is coming, as all the shop windows
testify. There has] never been such an elab-
ate display here of fancy goods, books, toys and
all sorts of articles suitable for Santa Claus in
his annual round as there is this season. Surely
all the little folks are going to be gladdened on
that glad day, and husbands, wives, fathers,
mothers, grand-parents, brothers, sisters, aunts,
uncles, cousins and relatives generally, as also
other friends, will certainly receive a call this
year that will make them remember "auld lang
syne.” 
	WE call the attention of our readers to the ad-
vertisement of Bro. Heman’s Bible Almanac for
1882, It is an unique little work, and is intended


to do good by calling to notice, in a silent way, a
passage of Scripture on each day in the year, and
by this means creating a desire in the mind to
search the book of all books, the Bible. There
are several subjects ably treated upon in this
little work, and it recommends itself well to
those who would be daily reminded of living
acceptable lives.
	ON Sunday, Dec. 4, in company with Sister
Eliza R. S. Smith, we visited South Jordan
Ward, where we met with the Primary Associa-
ciation at 10 a. m., Mrs. N. J. Oliver presiding.
The exercises were well rendered, the children’s
singing very good, and a marked improvement
was manifest. After the Sacrament services in
the afternoon, Bishop Wm. Bills announced that
the meeting would be in the hands of the sis-
ters. Mrs. Ann Holt, President of the Relief
Society of the ward, then made a few introduc-
tory remarks, and Sisters Smith and Wells each
addressed the congregation for a short time.
Bishop Bills expressed his great pleasure in the
day’s proceedings; felt blest with the teachings
given by the sisters.


