KOLOA KAUAI, Nov. 14, 1881.

	I left Laie two weeks last Friday and came
to Honolulu with the other brethren and about
one hundred of the natives; besides there were
about forty went by steamer. We left Laie at
6:30 o'clock, and rode over to Kahana for
breakfast, according to previous arrangement,
arriving there at 8 o'clock, and after partaking
of the fat things of Kahana, we rode on to
Hakipuu; got there at 10, where we were invited
in again, but not knowing of this before, rode
on to Kaneohe for dinner. There we had the
best native meal that I ever partook of; it was
mostly Haule food, pies. cake, chicken and the
like. The natives had their dinner out in a
bowery that had been built for the occasion.
	After ,dinner we resumed our journey, arriv-
ing at Honolulu about three o'clock- We all
rode into Honolulu in double file, Prest. H. H.
Cluff and our brethren leading. It was quite
a show. The next day our Conference began.
After our afternoon meeting was out we all
went down town, and while there the steamer
was signalled. If the town was ever in a bustle
it was then, for the King of the Islands was on
the steamer, and arrangements had been made
to form in procession and escort him to the
palace. They were not expecting him until
Monday, and had not got everything arranged
as they wanted it; but we all gathered as quickly
as possible and formed in procession, and as he
passed up the street we all fell into line and
marched up to the palace.	*	*	*
	Sunday we resumed our Conference again,
and on Monday they had the former proces-
sion over, as the other was arranged in such a
hurry that the committee was not satisfied.
We arranged again according to programme,
and passed by the doors of the palace, and
gave three cheers for King Kalakaua. Our
banner was the Eastern and Western hemi-
spheres, with the inscription, "Welcome home,
our beloved David, King, Circumnavigator
Laie Colony." This was the large one. The
next was a beehive with native inscription upon
it. The Relief Society had a banner also, giv-
ing the object of the institution. Our people
turned out well, and we made a good showing.
In the evening there was a torchlight proces-
sion by the fire brigade. It was grand, reach-
ing three blocks. Every one had a torch in
his hand, and the engines were all decorated
with lights. There are different nations in the
fire company; the whites had one, the natives
one, and the Chinamen one. There were flags
all over the streets, through which the proces-
sion passed, and a number of fine arches,
reaching from one side of the street to the
other were decorated in the finest style with
flags, ferns and boughs of different kinds. The
Chinamen had a very fine arch; it was on a
corner, and started from each of the four cor-
ners of the blocks. It was nicely arranged
with gaily colored prints of every description,
and wreaths of flowers, ferns and shrubs, and
a great many Chinese lanterns all over it, and
a very large one that revolved in the centre,
which cost $150; on each side of it was hung
the picture of His Majesty, about 13x16, and
mottoes of greeting on every side. Farther
up the street was another, not so gay and
showy, but neat and grand. It represented the
different countries the King had visited, and a
large ship on the ocean on one side of it and
the cars on the other. His soldiers made a
grand military display, also the brass bands;
the musicians play as well as any I ever heard,
that is the old band—this was the first appear-
ance of the younger band before the public.
They are all boys that would never go to
school, so they were made musicians of. The
laws are quite strict in regard to attending
school, so they were made musicians of. The
laws are quite strict in regard to attending
schools in this country, but are not so particu-
lar whether the children learn or not; but they


are obliged to go, or the officers are sent after
them.
	*	*	*	I spent my 22d birthday on
Laie. In the forenoon I was at work down at
the mill, but in the afternoon we that were not
working took a ride up in the gulch, and got
some of the finest oranges I have ever seen.
We brought down about a bushel, then took a
sea bath, and about 7 o'clock Benjamin Cluff
and Bro. Knell came down and told me that
they wanted me at Prest. Cluff's. When I ar-
rived there I found a native meal spread on
the floor in native style. It had been done in
honor of my birthday. Bro. Cluff said as this
was my first birthday on the islands, he thought
a native meal would be as appropriate as any-
thing; I must say I enjoyed it. The table was
laid out in the following manner: at the head
of the table was a dish of poi, and at the foot
a dish of pork, nicely cooked; there was also
one of raw fish and one of beef, also some
young onions. This is a great variety for a
native meal. Bro. Cluff gave me a nice silk
handkerchief, and Sister Cluff a book, "The
History of the Normans in Europe."
	There extracts are from a private letter
written by a young Elder to his parents.


