[Vol47 | October 1960 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: A | Author: Larson]
trawberr incushion A Strawberry Pincush Melba Larson Mareriats NEEDED (for 6 pincushions): one-third vard red velveteen (for six strawberrics ) one-sixth yard green velveteen (for six tops) glue To make the strawberries, place the pattern on the bias of material. Pattern should measure eleven inches from point to point and six inches across the middle. Cut out the red berry, fold double, seam, and turn. Stuff the berry with sawdust, and gather at the top. For the top of the berry, cut out an cight-point star from the green velvet. The star should measure five and a half inches from the tip of one point to the tip of the opposite point. A folded piece of green velvet may be used for a stem. Sew this stem to the gathered top of the berry. Slip the stem through the hole on the top of the berry. Glue the berry top to the berry. Add white beads to the red part of the berry. N REO WN CUT ON BIAS & iS) YA YD. RED VELVETEEN MAKES 6 STRAWBERRIES Ye YD. GREEN VELVETEEN MAKES 6 TOPS Page 662 PATTERN FOR TOP OF STRAWBERRY PINCUSHION The top is cut (single) from green velveteen in the shape of an eight-point star, measuring 5% inches from the tip of one point to the tip of the opposite point. PATTERN FOR STRAWBERRY (at left) The strawberry is cut single on the bias from red velveteen and measures 11 inches from point to point and 6 inches across the widest part of the berry. It is folded in the middle along the 6 inch diameter, then seamed on one side and gathered at the top. Faith Pauline L. Jensen I tore a page from the calendar the other day, and noted how short was the time until spring would be here. There was nothing outside that remotely suggested its nearness. There was snow on the ground, and the trees were bare, and I had a nostalgic remembrance of other springs, in faraway places. One stood out in my memory above all others, and my thoughts traveled back nine years, and six hundred miles, and I was once more in suburban St. Louis, Missouri. Even now I recall in detail that scene, and each word. I saw my husband's face, pale, and lined, and I heard his voice saying, "This transfer is something I've wanted for years. It is what I have striven and worked for. I know that my health is poor, and the risk we are taking is great. But, somehow, I truly believe that this change is just what I need. I believe it is meant that we go, and that my health will improve there, and things will be better. We have to believe that! We have to have faith!" I looked out of the window at the bright green grass and the golden forsythia, and I thought I had never seen spring any lovelier. From his perch in the maple tree J heard the cardinal sing to his mate, and I saw the dip and flash of a bluebird's wings. I knew that in just a few weeks the air would be filled with the fragrance of roses and waxen magnolias. And I wondered what spring would be like in that far northern city, and how it could possibly be spring anywhere without bluebirds and cardinals, magnolias and forsythia. And I wondered how I could say to my husband, "You're a sick man, far more so than you realize, and the doctors can't seem to find what is wrong. You aren't well enough to take on additional responsibility, and although you want it so much, the chance we take in this move is too great. Here, we have roots and home and friends and a measure of solid security. 'The children are happy, and their ties are many. If we go to a strange place, we have no assurance that such a change will be for the better. What if your health doesn't improve? Suppose that we go among strangers and something should happen?" Then I looked at the face of my husband, and saw the desperate plea in his eyes, and I knew that I wouldn't say any of those things. I knew that we'd go to that northern city, and I knew we would need every ounce of faith we could muster! And faith was our handmaiden through all of the days that followed as, one by one, we relinquished the bounds of security. The home that we loved became just a house; the college scholarship, insuring our child's education, went back to be claimed by another. Each precious thing that had filled our days was abandoned. The friends that had meant so much were bidden goodbye, and all that was left to sustain us was faith! Now it is nine short years since we came to this city of lakes and trees and beautiful homes. I look out of the window and see not green grass and golden forsythia, but softly falling snow that has hidden and muted everything ugly. And I hear not the cardinal's song, but the raucous cries of a bluejay. And instead of magnolias, I think of the white sails on Lake Calhoun, and sunset on Lake Minnetonka, of the moon shining down on the Lake of the Isles, and the beautiful trees that border the parkways. And I think of all of the wonderful people we now call friends. I look at the glowing face of my husband, and hear his firm step and his confident voice. I think of all of the joyous things that this move has brought, and I know in my heart what a wondrous gift is the power of faith! Page 663 My Third Grandma Part IJ — Butcuer KNIFE Ilene H. Kingsbury E were children of eight and \\) hungry. We stood about Grandma Morgan's kitchen and edged to the small, squat cabinet she called a valet, and we looked longingly at three loaves of hot bread. Just to smell them was a challenge in self-control. When she wasn't looking we ran our hands over the dome of crust, and in enough attempts would manage, quite accidentally, to break off a crunchy layer as big as the palm of the hand and hope it wouldn't be missed from the loaf. Before we knew it, there were crumbs at the corners of our mouths, and our looks of marked innocence were replaced by those of complete satisfaction. At this point in the game, for she played along with us if we persisted long enough, Grandma would push us aside and approach the bread with quiet resolution. 'This was her move of defeat. She no longer resolved to save all three loaves for a regular meal. From the center drawer of the valet she claimed the most amazing butcher knife in all Beaver County. It was long and slim and curved at the last third toward the tip, and its handle was of carved ivory. Odd designs of intertwined vines graced the hilt, along with a sort of motto in a long-forgotten and ancient language. We were afraid of this knife, for we knew it wasn't meant for carving up bread. Once, out under the cherry tree, Grandma had told us that her father had used it in a war in India against white people. Whenever she said Page 664 white people in just that tone we shivered. We also took another look at her skin. Yes, it wasn't exactly like our own. It had a sort of golden, burned, and leathery look such as one sees on finely tooled handbags of the lighter Palomino shades. Up to that time we had confused the name Indian with India and guessed that she was a Navajo who had been stolen or traded for a trinket. Most of our parents were certainly under that impression, but only because they hesitated to pry, as they called it. In our community there were a number of squaws who lived in the homes of the whites and were called Aunt or Grandma. We knew of at least one of them who had been stolen as a child, taken to Old Mexico as a slave, brought back north again on mule back, and traded off for a fat, young steer. But that Navajo ex-slave girl didn't look exactly like Grandma Morgan. True, their eyes were jet black, and looked all-yearning. 'Their hair remained black and straight to fragile old age, and their complexions were dark and oily and brownish. But each came from ancient heritages on opposite sides of the earth. Only by the most extreme circumstances were they ever to meet or speak a communal language or be called sister by their religious fellows. In fact, it was this peculiar religious heritage that was, in a measure, responsible for multiple races living in a desert settlement in North America. MY THIRD GRANDMA guess it was the butcher knife that was the constant reminder of the heritage of Grandma Morgan, formerly of India right around the world. Its like has only been found in the Smithsonian Institute in a wing dedicated to India, Burma, and Hindustan. We were a little afraid of that knife, with its point so fine one could have written a letter with it. And we early understood that no one, except Grandma, yes, no one on earth, could use it for any purpose whatsoever. After all, hadn't this little creature carried it all the way around the world wrapped in a piece of coral silk? And wasn't it her father's father's father's? Her use of that sword, for that it was, was as startling as its appearance. She tested the new bread for temperature, and then tucked the loaf under her arm high above the waist. The bent arm sort of balanced the loaf and her fingers steadied it. Then she picked up the sabre and began to swipe it through the air, first into a pat of homemade butter and then swiftly back and forth across the butt end of the loaf. Only a hummingbird with its sword bill longer than its body could move faster than that historical weapon. After this thorough buttering, she tackled the loaf, still held under her arm, with a sawing motion of the knife. As the slice almost slid to the floor, she gracefully bent toward 665 the valet and let it fall, face up, on a little plate. Generally we were allowed to have the first pieces, depending on whether we were girls or the littlest. You will note that various ages and sexes had smelled that baking wonder from far down in the lot. We lined up, feeling starved to death at the mere whiff of golden crust. Needless to say, we ruined at least one loaf for consumption at a regular meal, whether it was the usual bread and milk supper or the hot dinner at noon when the farm hands had their big meal of the day. The more we ate, the smaller our appetites became, until at last we just sighed our gratitude. At that moment, then, Grandma wiped off the blade of this weapon of her departed forebears and reverently laid it in its shallow place, motto side up. The elaborately carved words could be easily read, if one knew a language thousands of years old, and Grandma did, or so we believed— The Peace of God Be With You. It certainly didn't look like that much writing to us, only three or four curvy designs, a little more golden in the area where Grandma's fingers pressed it for buttering. But she always read the markings aloud as she shut the drawer, and we believed her interpretation. Perhaps, as she said the words, she felt less homesick for her father's father's father's land. <-> Small Son Aretta N. Ricks A joy springs up from depths unknown, I am queen upon a throne! A darling prince the age of three Has vowed undying love of me. Recipes Son Vuutuan ene Florence S. Jacobsen Wrote Mra Sour 1 tbsp. Butter og butter substitute 1 ¢c. Corm 2 Ibs. Ground beef 1 c. Diced carrots 2 qts. Hot water 2 c. Shredded cabbage 2 c. Diced potatoes 2 onions, diced 1 c. Diced celery 1% tsp. Salt 2 c. Tomatoes "4 C. Tice Melt butter, add meat, and brown. Add water and bring to a full rolling boil. Add vegetables. Bring back to a boil. Add rice and seasonings. Simmer 1 to 1% hours. Ham AND CHEESE SANDWICH FONDUE 6 slices bread 3 eggs, slightly beaten 3 tbsp. Butter or butter substitute 2 c. Milk 6 slices (about % Ib.) Cheddar cheese 1 tsp. Salt 3 slices boiled ham (or ham loaf) 4 tsp. Pepper 1 tbsp. Prepared mustard Spread 3 slices of the bread with butter. Top each with a slice of cheese, then a slice of ham, and another slice of cheese. Spread the 3 remaining bread slices with mustard and place on the cheese to make sandwiches. Cut each into 9 cubes and place in a well greased 2-quart casserole. Beat eggs, milk, salt, and pepper together with a rotary beater. Pour cver bread cubes. Set casserole in a pan of hot water and bake about 1 hour or until a knife inserted in the center of egg mixture comes out clean and top is brown. Serves 4. New York WatporFr SALAD 4 large apples, cubed 7 C. Mayonnaise "2 ¢. Pitted diced dates pinch salt 1 c. Diced celery 1 tsp. Powdered sugar % c. Chopped walnuts Mix all ingredients together. Chill and serve in crisp lettuce cups, with or without additional salad dressing. THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING 1 C. Mayonnaise "2 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Chili sauce 1 chopped hard-cooked egg 1 tbsp. Chopped green pepper 1 tbsp. Chopped ripe olives 1 tsp. Chopped pimento (or green olives) tbsp. Chopped sweet pickle Mix all ingredients together and chill. Store in refrigerator. Serve as a dressing for salads or with fish, as desired.