[Vol47 | October 1960 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: America]
of iterature—America's Literature Comes of Age Lesson 20 — Natty Bumppo, American Fiction-Hero Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 221-223) For Tuesday, January 17, 1961 Objective: To acknowledge Cooper's Natty Bumppo as creating and symbolizing the wild beauty of primitive America. Cooper, Frustrated Idealist N a very real sense James Fenimore Cooper loved his vision of the Ideal America so wholeheartedly and so belligerently that it killed him. 'Too democratic for Europe, too aristocratic for Jacksonian America, for almost the last twenty years of his life he fought with full, manly vigor to defend the unswerving integrity of his dream of what America should be. Never did he admit that he was a leader without a party defending a cause forever past. While staying in English hotels he had become infuriated with reading the insults penned onto the hotel registers following names whose homes were listed as "U. S. A." Understandably, his fury was more intense when, upon returning to the country he had defended so staunchly, he thought its inhabitants had degenerated into a vulgar, money-mad mob. In that age of rowdy expansionism, when such terms as "liar" and "garbage" were journalistic commonplaces, Cooper soon got what he had asked for by his frontal attack on his sensitive, ambitious, and proud countrymen. The public press lambasted him as "assassin," and "leprous wretch," making him the most popular novelist but the most unpopular man in America. 'The amazed, frustrated Cooper became so embittered that he instructPage 694 ed his family to allow no "official" biography ever to be written, which gave his oldest, most loyal daughter her justification for burning most of his personal papers and for having his most personal journals buried with her at her own death. If Cooper's intention was alienation, he was successful, for without such personal materials, literary historians have found it most difficult to create a picture of Cooper. In another sense, this intentional destruction has proved fortunate, since it intensifies the artistic and cultural creativity within his novels as essential expressions of Cooper himself. 'The greatest value, however, lies in his novels creating a great national symbol which revealed a system of belief not only to the countrymen of Cooper's own day but to a sympathetic audience of international scope through time. Ever since the end of the Revolution in 1783, the United States had been striving to establish a literary independence from Great Britain, but before Cooper, the new Nation had never had a symbol which could possibly assert it. Cooper, then, assumes dual importance: he was the first American to write frankly about his country and criticize it vigorously, and he created in Natty Bumppo (hero of the Leather-Stocking Tales) a truly representative American symbol and LESSON DEPARTMENT myth, by means of which American literature first achieved its unique identity. Cooper's Conflicts Cooper had within himself several basic conflicts intensifying the tensions within himself out of which art is produced. For example, during his years in France, he was an intimate friend of the aging liberal, Lafayette. Cooper defended the American Revolution and = gave financial support to the revolt in Poland, yet, upon returning home, he feared the democratic mob. With every reason to entrench himself with the wealthy Whigs, he fought them, not so much because he believed in Jacksonian Democracy as that he feared the money-grabbing zeal of the new manufacturing and capitalistic classes. In his anti-rent trilogy (Satanstoe, Chainbearer, Redskins) he fought vigorously, defending the right of the landed gentry to maintain financial control of their lands, yet his most famous novels are laid beyond the frontier where no law save that of God and nature prevails. Feeling increasingly ill at ease in lawful, civilized society, Cooper sought escape by going beyond the frontiers. He created the person he would like to be, if only he could be free of the increasingly complex problems of his world. It is in Natty Bumppo that one finds the source of his literary power and his world-wide popularity. And _ the emergence of Natty Bumppo (also called Deerslayer, Leather-Stocking, Long Rifle, Hawkeye, the Trapper ) can be more thoroughly understood once more if Cooper's basic attitudes toward fiction are stated. 695 Cooper's Literary Theories Never a novelist so much as a moralist masquerading in the literary costumes currently in vogue, Cooper regarded fiction as a lesser form of literature than poetry, yet for him fiction was a means of earning a good living and, more important, for getting his personal convictions into circulation. Resigning himself, therefore, to use the novel as he found it, he used stale plots, created wooden characters, and, when his imagination was not fired by his subject, employed the stiff formalities of language then accepted as a badge of quality and social station. Just a few of the trite, wornout phrases from the pages of The Last of the Mohicans show some of the qualities of language which Bret Harte and Mark 'Twain burlesqued: "feverish suspense," "scalding tears," "babbling brook,"' "the gun poured out its fatal contents," "he gnashed his teeth with rage,' and "the savage grated his teeth together like rasps of iron." In his novels Cooper was both a realistic and a romantic writer. He was drawn to realistic writing in reaction against the popular horror of Gothic romances and the sob-seduction-sentiment romances which flooded the bookshops. Also, he believed an American novel should include as much of real America as it possibly could, presenting actual conditions as they really were. 'To tell the moral truth as he saw it was the basis of his books and the frequent debates they contained. Cooper, be it always remembered, was fundamentally the moralist who wished to depict ideal characters and actions. Because these virtues could best be brought 696 to imaginative life in romance, he laid the Leather-Stocking 'Tales (The Pioneers, The Deerslayer, The Last of the Mohicans, The Prairie, The Pathfinder) in a place distant in time and beyond the frontier. In such idealized surroundings, Natty Bumppo was truly in his element. Here are to be found lore about the mysterious Indian, pursuit, escape, suspense, the serene majesty of unspoiled nature; here, the reader's heart absorbs Natty's virtues into himself as if they were his own; here lies the great western dream fulfilled. Natty Bumppo On May 25, 1831, Cooper wrote from Paris to his nephew in Cooperstown: Your Aunt Pomeroy is afraid we shall become too Europeanized for home. She knows little of our tastes or wishes. Now my longing is for a wilderness — Cooperstown is far too populous and artificial for me, and it is my intention to plunge somewhere into the forest, for six months in the year, at my return. It was this "longing... For a wilderness" in Cooper which gave birth to Natty who symbolized the "wilderness of liberty" which both Cooper and his age associated with the millions of acres of land lying to the west still unspoiled by such cruel, wolfish squatters or frontiersmen as Ishmael Bush in The Prairie. In another sense, Natty combines the strongest moral qualities of civilization and Christianity. And, while his original creation of Natty in The Pioneers (1823) was undoubtedly a spontaneous product of Cooper's intuitive genius, it is in his 1850 Preface to the Leather-Stocking Tales that Cooper precisely states his true identity and significance: A leading character in a work of ficRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 tion has a fair right to the aid which can be obtained from a poetical view of the subject. It is in this view, rather than in one more strictly circumstantial, that Leather-Stocking has been drawn. The imagination has no great task in portraying to itself a being removed from the everyday inducements to err, which abound in civilized life, while he retains the best and simplest of his early impressions; who sees God in the forest; hears him in the winds; bows to him in the firmament that o'ercanopies all; submits to his way in a humble belief of his justice and mercy; in a word, a being who finds the impress of the Deity in all the works of nature, without any of the blots produced by the expedients, and passions, and mistakes of man. This is the most that has been attempted in the character of LeatherStocking. Cooper's greatest artistic accomplishment was to combine in this one romantic poetic character three great culture-forces of pre-Civil War America: (1) the intuitive wisdom and the ecstatic feeling of being continuously reborn, which romantic lovers of nature believed they, too, would feel were they to walk alone amid the untainted, primeval grandeur of America's western Eden; (2) the eighteenth-century tradition of "gifts" and station which sustained the high concepts of gentle manliness and honor and kindness produced out of generations of blood-proud, name-proud family ties; and (3) constant reference to Christian ethics and piety as guides for action in judgment: the "good" man is dominated by quiet, strong reverence for all forms of life in nature, including all humankind. Courageous yet gentle, chaste while loving all God's creations, he is never tainted by temper or hatred, and kills either animal or human reluctantly, and only when he must do so to survive. LESSON DEPARTMENT Thus Cooper is the first American writer to achieve the full stature of creating myth, or an artistic, symbolic creation containing those drives and beliefs within a culture which are so strong, so automatic, so basic that often they are not formally stated. As a romanticized idealization of what strong, unspoiled, believing man should be, Natty Bumppo is "as great a hero as Homer's Achilles or Virgil's Aeneas," to quote an anonymous Englishman who wrote Cooper his esteem for LeatherStocking, his best-loved character in fiction. Homer's Iliad and Odyssey were memorized and chanted aloud by Homer's own and _ later ages, so completely were those works loved, so definitely did they give a murroring identity to that ancient people. In identical manner Cooper gave a fictional body not only to the idealized wish-fulfillments of the nineteenth century, but to our day of electronic communication as well. For Gary Cooper in chaps, six-guns, steely eye, and quiet drawl is the spiritchild and worthy representative of his sire, James Fenimore Cooper. The locale (beyond the "'law"); the morality (good men vs. Bad men) with virtue, honesty, and uncanny nature-lore always triumphant; the eternal pursuitescape-Suspense "inthe-nick-of-time" rescue — all these are Cooper's creations. Little could Walt Whitman know how truly he spoke when he acknowledged Coopers great achievement as being "from everlasting to everlasting." No longer does one speak of "the vanishing West" with clear conscience, for never has the Old West been more featured than now. If 697 Cooper did not create the historic Daniel Boone and Davy Crockett, at least he created them imaginatively in their blood-brother, Natty Bumppo, who, through his endless imitations, seems to enjoy more imaginative power in our century than in his own. The Poetic Cooper Despite Cooper's weaknesses in language, plot, and characterization already noted, the Leather-Stocking Tales, as unified by Natty Bumppo, are his enduring monument. As proof that Cooper was not entirely aware of what he had created, note how the series begins with The Pioneers (1823) which depicts LeatherStocking as a man in his early seventies living in about 1793 amid surroundings very similar to those of early Cooperstown, basically a realistic book. 'The series ends with The Deerslayer (1841) in which Leather-Stocking is about twentythree, living about 1740, really a poetic vision of Leather-Stocking's birth into maturity and manhood. In The Last of the Mohicans (1826) our hero was in his mid-thirties, while in The Prairie (1827) Leather-Stocking, a man of eighty or more years, dies at the end of the book, only to be resurrected in The Pathfinder (1840) thirteen years later. In the order of composition, then, the shape of the Leather-Stocking Tales is from reality to poetry. The excerpts in our text from The Last of the Mohicans fairly represent two apparent sources of Cooper's popular appeal: Chapter XXXII is filled with cunning, courage, suspense, and the deaths of the villainous Magua and the virtuous Uncas. Chapter XXXIII is a senti- 698 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 mental tableau surrounding the slain Cora as, with fittingly excessive displays of emotion, she is prepared for bunal. But as reminders of Cooper's great story-telling gifts, consider first the strong feeling of place and the specific details of reality he catches in Chapter I of The Pioneers: Near the center of the state of New York lies an extensive district of country, whose surface is a succession of hills and dales.... It is among these hills that the Delaware takes its rise; and flowing from the limpid lakes and thousand springs of this region, the numerous sources of the Susquehanna meander through the valleys, until, uniting their streams, they form one of the proudest rivers of the United States. Lhe vales are narrow, rich, and cultivated, with a stream uniformly winding through each. Beautiful and thriving villages are found interspersed along the margins of the small lakes, or situated at those points of the streams which are favorable for manufacturing; and neat and comfortable farms, with every indication of wealth about them, are scattered profusely through the vales, and even to the mountain tops Now compare the above combination of romantic scene and realistic detail written in 1823 when Cooper was just beginning his career, with the tone of pure poetic beauty and majesty in the following excerpts from Chapter VII of The Deerslayer written in 1841, eighteen years later, when the mature Cooper is fully aware of the mythic qualities he has created in Natty - Leather - Stocking - Deerslayer - Hawkeye. The chapter tells how, at dawning, significantly the hour of epic events in Cooper, innocent young Deerslayer kills his first Indian, which becomes his baptism into maturity. Note also how the chapter exemplifies the three great forces: nature worship, chivalric manliness, Christian forgiveness. Day had fairly dawned before the young man... Again opened his eyes. His rest had been deep and undisturbed; and when he awoke, it was with a clearness of intellect and a readiness of resources that were much needed at that particular moment. The sun had not yet risen, it is true, but the vault of heaven was rich with the winning softness that "brings and shuts the day,' while the whole air was filled with the carols of birds, the hymns of the feathered tribe.. He searches for the canoe which he must find and protect from the Indians at all costs. The canoe adrift being directed by no such intelligence, pursued its proper way, and grounded on a small sunken rock, at the distance of three or four yards from the shore... Then it rose a_hairsbreadth on an almost imperceptible swell of the water, swung round, floated clear, and reached the strand. All this the young man noted, but it neither quickened his pulses, nor hastened his hand.... As Deerslayer drew nearer and nearer to the land, the stroke of his paddle grew slower, his eye became more watchful, and his ears and nostrils almost dilated with the effort to detect any lurking danger.... Equally free from recklessness and hesitation, his advance was marked by a sort of philosophical prudence that appeared to render him superior to all motives but those which were best calculated to effect his purpose. When about a hundred yards from the shore, Deerslayer rose in the canoe, gave three or four vigorous strokes with the paddle.... He was in the very act of raising the rifle, when a sharp report was followed by the buzz of a bullet that passed so near his body as to cause him involuntarily to start. The Indian reveals himself rashly. This was the moment the young man desired. He rose on the instant, and levelled his own rifle at his uncovered foe; but his finger hesitated about pulling the LESSON DEPARTMENT trigger on one whom he held at such a disadvantage. This little delay probably saved the life of the Indian. Leaping ashore, Deerslayer enters the temple of nature and sees the Indian's arm move as he reloads behind an oak... Nothing would have been easier than to spring forward and decide the affair by a close assault on his unprepared foe; but every feeling of Deerslayer revolted at such a step, although his own life had just been attempted from a cover it struck him as an unfair advantage to assail an unarmed foe. His color had heightened, his eye frowned, his lips were compressed, and all his energies were collected and ready; but, instead of advancing to fire, he dropped his rifle to the usual position of a sportsman in readiness to catch his aim, and muttered to himself, unconscious that he was _ speaking: "No, no — that may be redskin warfare, but it's not a Christian's gift. Let the miscreant charge, and then we'll take it out like men; for the canoe he must not, and shall not have. No, no; let him have time to load, and God will take care of the right!" The two greet each other, bow, converse, shake hands, then walk in apparent friendship to the canoes. As they part, Deerslayer glances at the Indian, but, ashamed of his distrust, begins to launch his canoe, when, in a lightning glance, he sees the Indian preparing to fire at him. Almost in a single motion he cocks and fires his rifle "aiming almost without sighting," and though the Indian throws his tomahawk, he is mortally wounded. Deerslayer takes him to the lake for the drink he requested, then places his head in his lap, which the Indian might regard as a preliminary to his being scalped, but Deerslayer reassures him: "All inmity atween you and me's at an 699 ind, red-skin and you may set your heart at rest on the score of the scalp, or any further injury. My gifts are white, as I've told you; and I hope my conduct will be white also!" The Indian understands his good intentions, and: With the high, innate courtesy that so often distinguishes the Indian warrior before he becomes corrupted by too much intercourse with the worst class of the white man, he endeavored to express his thankfulness for the other's good intentions, and to let him understand that they were appreciated. Dying with composure, he renames Deerslayer "Hawkeye" and expires. Hawkeye braces the body up in a dignified sitting posture overlooking the lake, then soliloquizes: I didn't wish your life, red-skin... But you left me no choice atween killing, or being killed. Each party acted according to his gifts, I suppose, and blame can light on neither.... And why should I wish to boast of it a'ter all? It's slaying a human, although he was a savage; and how do I know that he was a just injin; and that he has not been taken away suddenly to anything but happy h