AS The Source of Radiance Is Love" By George Gardner ONE of the great masters searched his land for a model from which to paint a portrait of the Christ. After many years of search, the great painter found a young man, in every way the ideal for his model. During the painting of the picture there grew a close friendship between the two. The divine radiance which suited the young man to this high and rare opportunity, so the young man said, was due to an emotion he felt within. The inward emotion, he confided to the master, was due to the daily association with a young lady of rare and lovely qualities. The young man was soon to marry her. After the painting was coniplete the two men separated. Copies of the masterpiece have been taken to all parts of the civilized world to hang in art galleries, churches, homes and to be printed in: books. Thus the influence of one good woman has been felt throughout the world down through centuries of time. MANY years after the meeting of the painter and the young man there was another great painting planned, the painting of Judas. After studying this character for many years the master again went in search of a model. He searched the saloons and the inns and the slums. One day in a desolate inn the master saw the one for whom he searched. At a lone table sat a man without radiance of face, without interest in life, even without hope. As the artist approached him there appeared something familiar in feature. The stranger spoke the artist's name in a voice whose every trace of music had vanished. "Yes, I remember you. "But you don't know me," the stranger said. "Many years ago I was your model. You painted The Christ. It is a great painting. As I told you then the love of a beautiful and good woman gave mea divine radiance. We had a misunderstanding. I quarreled with her and in anger went away. My anger turned to hatred. Hatred has quenched the fire that then warmed my life. Do you see any radiance now?" The old man sat again as a model for the great painter. *See the diary of Leonardo Da Vinci. This was written in mirror writing and was recently deciphered by Professor Manutti. Some facts in this story were given by Robert Ripley in a radio address over the NBC in 1936. They are used here through the courtesy of Mr. Ripley. WISH your friend a Merry Christmas with a pretty handpainted card from the Mormon Handicraft Shop. Gifts to suit any taste and pocket-book are to be found.