Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
IN the gladness of December festivals, forget not the divine inheritance of man is tenderness.
AS Christmas nears one haunts the gaily decorated shops for suitable gifts for the little folks. A delightful custom is to have at least one book at Christmas for each child of the household. Never was there a lovelier display of juvenile literature than now. Besides the old favorites in revised and more attractive dress, appear scores of charming new books so alluring that one almost longs to be a little child again. "Here Comes the Postman," by Dorothy Park, beginning, "When I was a little girl"; and the thrilling South American story, "The Red Jungle Boy," by Elizabeth Steen, "The Little House," by Christine Crowell, and Dorothy Bryan's "Bobby Wanted a Pony" and so many others to choose from for children's happiness.
CLEOPATRA, the most fascinating figure of ancient civilization, is the subject of Emil Ludwig's latest biography. It is a sensation in the field of literature.
EVE CURIE'S biography of her mother, Marie Curie, discoverer of radium and greatest of all women scientists, is exciting, inspiring and beautifully written. Other interesting books for winter reading and reviews given first place by the reviewers are Mabel Dodge Luhan's "Edge Of The Taos Desert," Laura Riding's "A Trojan Ending," Sally Salminen's "Katrina," "The Long. Way Home" by Sylvia Chatfield Bates, and Louise Redfield Peattie's new novel, "Tomorrow Is Ours." "A Japanese Lady In Europe," by Haruko Ichikawa is also most entertaining; as are "The Faithful Wife," by Sigrid Unset and "Farewell Spain," by Kate O'Brien.
MARY LYON in 1837 founded Mount Holyoke Seminary, the same year that Oberlin College opened its doors for co-education. Four women were admitted and in 1841 were graduated with degrees of bachelor of art.
ANNIE JUMP CANNON of Harvard, known as the "pilot for astronomers," has been awarded the honorary degree of doctor of science from Mount Holyoke College.
JOSEPHINE ROCHE, assistant secretary of the U. S. Treasury, has resigned her position and resumed the presidency of the Rocky Mountain Coal company in Colorado.
HANNAH MADSEN ALDRICH, handcart pioneer to Utah in 1856, recently celebrated her 97th birthday, at which time she helped in all the arrangements.
EDNA DWYER, sweet singer and devoted friend, died this past autumn. She was many years a favorite in Salt Lake musical circles.
MARIA ECKLAND WALQUIST, of Utah, died last October at the advanced age of 100 years.
JEAN BATTEN, New Zealand aviatrix, established a new solo record in her flight from Australia to England last October.
LUCY EMILY WOODRUFF SMITH, wife, mother, and friend, died early in November. Active in women's social and patriotic circles she was beloved for gracious qualities of heart and soul.