My Surprise Garden By Genevieve V. Hunt | OW often we hear people say, "T would love to have a flower garden, but I am always too busy to take care of one." I too, was under the impression that raising flowers meant a lot of time and hard work. That, however, was before I started my Surprise Garden. My first venture began with two tiny begonia slips that proved so fascinating in their development, I could not resist the temptation of adding pot after pot of other treasures. Now, summer and winter I have a healthy looking indoor garden that has the magnetic power of holding visitors entranced with its colorful beauty. It is surprising the little time and work that is required to care for potted plants. A withered leaf to pluck?water for the thirsty ones? a gentle loosening of the soil. Most everyone can spare the few minutes needed each day, no matter how busy they may be. LET us glance over some of my favorites and I will tell you about them. The Umbrella Plant (Cyperus alternifolius) is a handsome ornamental palm-like plant that needs very little care, and plenty of water. A new plant is easily started by inverting one of the umbrella shaped leaves in a glass of water. When strong looking roots have formed, and a new shoot appears, plant in a pot of rich soil and set in a saucer of water. I have several varieties of begonia, all of them profuse bloomers and very beautiful. They are easy to grow if given plenty of moisture and are not exposed to the full rays of the sun. My favorite of the begonia family is the Beefsteak, a low spreading plant, with circular leaves, red beneath and glossy green above. This does not require much light, and will thrive where most begonias refuse to grow. It is an admirable plant for a window that is shaded by a porch or trees. The flowers of the Beefsteak are a dainty pinkish white. To propagate, cut the rhizomes in one inch pieces and plant like seeds in damp sand. When new growth begins repot in 2 parts loam, 1 part sand, 1/2 part leafmold, and 1/2 part prepared manure. Begonias need good drainage and_ several pieces of broken crockery should be placed in the bottom of the pot before the soil is added. A well-established plant should be repotted with fresh soil once a year. The Sansevieria or Golden Striped Snake Plant is most striking. It is very hardy and can stand just about anything but frost and too much water. New plants can be started by cutting one of the leaves across in two inch sections and planting in sand. St. Bernard's Lily makes a handsome pot plant, with its recurved, graceful foliage and large spikes of white flowers. It likes plenty of sunshine, and should be planted in a roomy container, as it thrives better when the roots are not cramped. Like the Umbrella Plant, the St. Bernard's Lily is very simple to propogate. Cut off a bunch of leaves from the long stem, and put in water. In a few weeks a new plant will sprout, pot it and keep it well watered. The common geranium is not hard MY SURPRISE GARDEN to grow, and it can be relied upon to keep the house looking gay. It needs sun, and should be potted in rich sandy loam. If given too much water the geranium will sprout profuse foliage, but few blooms. English Ivy succeeds admirably and adds to the beauty of any window garden. It is a vigorous grower, and can be trimmed into any shape or trained over a window. Strings should be fastened for it to climb on. The strong green string used by florists is best. Ivies require a rather heavy soil made of 3 parts soil and 1 part manure. Press the soil down very firmly so that air will not get to the roots. The plant should be given plenty of moisture but care should be taken that the soil does not become soggy. The Wax Plant is a climbing house plant, and is particularly beautiful when in bloom. The fragrant, wax-white flowers have pink centers and produce in succession. It is an interesting plant at all times. Wandering Jew is one of the easiest and most satisfying vines for house culture, as it thrives equally well in either soil or water. It has surprising decorative value when arranged in glass, or pottery containers, and is delightful for brightening up the mantle or adding charm to a table. It is also most lovely in a hanging basket. The Boston Fern is the hardiest and most likeable of all the sword ferns. It is very attractive and grows fairly rapidly. Unlike most ferns it will not be ruined or killed if neglected for a day or two. The Boston will grow in most any soil, but a well drained sandy loam is best. 831 SOUTH windows are preferable for Surprise Gardens, but I have plants that are doing very nicely in east and west windows. In potting plants I place pieces of broken crockery or small stones in the bottom of the pot for drainage, then fill with good rich soil. The best time of the year to repot house plants is in the spring when new growths start. After potting water the plants thoroughly, and set them in a shaded place until the roots have taken hold of the new soil. Then gradually inure them to the sunlight. If they need feeding through the winter, because of large growth, give them a prepared plant food. Reliable plant food can be bought at almost any seed store. Plants grown in a window will always turn to the light, and unless they are moved frequently, they will become onesided. When they gather dust spray them with a hand syringe, or rub a damp sponge over the leaves. On cold nights pull the pots away from the windows, and place newspapers in front of the glass. Indoor gardens must have fresh air, no matter how freezing the weather is. The cold air, however, should be mixed with the warm air in the room before it reaches the plants. This can be arranged by opening a window, or door, for a minute or two on the opposite side of the room. My garden has cost me very little as everything in it, with the exception of the Boston Fern, has been grown from seeds or slips. Those who have Surprise Gardens need not sigh when winter puts an end to outdoor blooms. Their potted plants will keep them cheerful, and more than satisfied throughout the long snowy months.