ey Do We Celebrate Christmas? By Eva K. Thomas that day? The celebration of that day grew out of an old Pagan festival held at this time of year called, "The birthday of the Sun." The Pagans were very fond of pageantry and this festival was a favorite. So out of this, the idea grew of using that time to celebrate the birth of the Spiritual Son of the world. This gradually took the place of the old Pagan festival. OW the celebration of Christmas is universal and yet the customs differ in many countries. In Devonshire, England, it is said the bees hum all night long in their hives the night before Christmas. If you are wise you will go and wish them a Merry Christmas and hang a bit of holly on each hive, else you may get no honey next year. You must never ask to borrow a match or a bit of fire on Christmas Day, because fire is the symbol of the heart of the house and of happiness. One must never take away but only add to. In Norway there is a beautiful custom, "The Ceremony of Feeding the Birds." Two or three days before Christmas bunches of oats are placed on the roofs and tied to the branches of trees and shrubs, loads of grain being brought into towns for this special purpose. No one would think of sitting down to his own dinner without first giving every animal on the place an extra portion in the name of Christ. Why do we give gifts? Is it because the Wise Men gave gifts to Jesus? Or is it because of our Heavenly Father's great gift to the world?the gifts of love and everlasting life which He gave us when He sent His only begotten Son to teach the world how to live. Then if we give gifts to light anew the fires of love and friendship that Christ brought to us are we doing so in the right spirit? Gift giving is symbolic, symbolic of love, friendship and peace. Christmas and our gift giving then should radiate a feeling of peace and good will toward men,?a feeling of deep appreciation for those qualities which Christ sought to teach, humbleness of spirit, strength of character and a great love for those about us. So great a love that self is denied. HEN is it not time that we contemplate a bit and try to discover just what we are doing to Christmas? Are we really celebrating the birthday of our Savior in a fashion that would be pleasing unto Him? Are we ministering in a humble way to those less fortunate? Are we making our gift giving a sincere offer on the altar of love, friendship and brotherhood, or a matter of show and glitter that is an effort to cover a selfish desire for flaunting? Today the Christmas holiday hag become so commercialized that we are apt to lose sight of its spiritual side. The customs in many far-away countries speak of a humbleness, a desire to make every living creature happy on this, Christ's Day. Let us develop the spiritual side and make of Christmas a festival commemorating the birth of the Son of God.