editorial we will cheerfully agree to give you readers, as nearly as possible, the very things you want to read, and from as composite an angle as is possible to one human "We?! You have liked, apparently, the very simple editorial policy of the past nine years, and unless you show future displeasure that policy will go right on through the year of 1922.  That policy has been: to print articles, poems, stories and departments written by Latter-day Saint women (rarely men) for Latter-day Saint readers. Life's problems, as they affect the mature women, touch the members of this Society closely. These problems may be religious, domestic, civic or organization problems. The treatment of these problems or plots or ideas in verse, story or article may be scholarly and polished, or amateur and crude. But when two articles or poems are side by side there are two standards by which We judge and choose: one is, the spirit that pervades it; second, the manner of its expression. As between a cold, spiritless, finished story, and a halting, crudely-told tale, breathing a testimony of the gospel from start to finish, we choose the inspired story, if it is at all possible; we may have to dress it up as best We may with our red and blue pencil. Where culture and the spirit of the gospel are combined that is the ideal for which We strive, the story We seek, the poem We long to receive. For We do set up a literary standard as well as a spiritual one. Then We try to bring in new writers; to represent various sections of the Church and country; to treat up-to-date questions; to dress our old, old truth in modern terminology; to watch the signs of the times and note fulfilment of prophecy; to cultivate a taste for the beautiful in life, here and hereafter; to comfort, warm, bless, advise and, in short, to administer wisely and well this responsible office and calling. Whatever good is done comes from the Lord; whatever mistakes are made are our own. (We hear plenty about them.) (Above all, We present to this greatest of all women's organizations the spirit and letter of the instructions and conferences taught and held by the Presidency and General Board of the Society itself; and news of Relief Society women, and of the Relief Society everywhere; these together with the lessons in our Guide make up Your Relief Society Magazine.