[Vol10 | December 1923 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for February]

(Second Week in February) Literature Third Week in February SNOWBOUND Mr. W. S. Kennedy writes of Whittier and his home life: "He was born and passed his boyhood youth in a green, sunken pocket of the inland hills, and he became the poet of the heart and the home. He lived the simple, quiet life of a farmer, loving his mother, his sister, his Quaker sect, freedom, and his own hearth. Between the front door of the old homestead and the road rises a grassy, wooded bank, at. The foot of which flows a little ambercolored brook. The brook is mentioned in Snowbound: " "We minded that the sharpest ear The buried brooklet could not hear, The music of whose liquid lip Had been to us companionship, And, in our lonely life, had grown To have an almost human tone." "The house where Whittier was born and where he lived," says one of his biographers, "is very plain and not very large. Entering the front door, you are in a small entry with a steep, quaint little staircase. On the right is the parlor where Whittier wrote. In the tiny, low-studded room on the left, he was born, and in the same room his father and Uncle Moses died. The room is about fourteen by fourteen feet, is partly wainscoted, has a fireplace and three windows. All the windows in the house have small panes, nine in the upper, and six in the lower, sash. The home is supposed to be over two hundred years old. The kitchen, oldfashioned as it is, of course, attracts a good deal of attention." Snowbound gives us a picture of home life in and about this cottage, in the winter time. The old kitchen, is a cozy old room with its fire-place and huge breadth of chimney with inset cupboards and oven and mantlepiece. Above the mantle hung the old bull's-eye watch. On one side of the kitchen is the cupboard where the pewter plates were placed and in another part is the brass warming pan, polished to such brightness that it attracted attention from any part of the room. No description that can be given by any prose writer, we take it, can equal Whittier's own description. He says of this home: "Shut in from all the world without, We sat the clean-winged hearth about, Content to let the north-wind roar In baffled rage at pane and door, White the red logs before us beat The frost-line back with tropic heat; And ever, when a louder blast Shook beam and rafter as it passed, The merrier up its roaring draught The great throat of the chimney laughed, The house dog on his paws outstretched, Laid to the fire his drowsy head, The cat's dark silhoue'te on the wall A couchant tiger's seemed to fall; And, for the winter fireside meet, Between the andirons' straddling feet, The mug of cider simmered slow, The apples sputtered in a row, And, close at hand,'the basket stood With nu's from brown October's wood." Within this home dwel'ed the father and mother, who were the inspiration of the jife there. In Snowbound we learn how the father ate moose and samp in trapper's hut and Indian camp on Memphremagog's wooded side, and danced beneath St. Francois' hemlock trees, and a'e chowder and hake-broil at the Isle of Shoals. There was no Friends church in Haverhill, but the poet's Father could be seen each Sunday wending his way to the old brown meetinghouse in Amesbury, a distance of six miles. Mrs. Whittier, the poet's mother, had a very deeply religious nature. She was pure, sweet, lovable, and kind-hearted to a fault. In Snowbound her son tells us something of her girlhood in Somersworth on Piscataqua. In another of his books called The Yankee Gypsie, he tells this story of his mother, which is a tribute to her kind-heartedness: "On one occasion," says th poet, "a few years ago, on my return from the fields at evening, I was told that a foreigner had asked for lodgings during the night but that, influenced by his dark, repulsive appesrance, my mother had very reluctantly refused his request. I found her by no means satisfied with her 
 decision. What if a son of mine were in a strange land?' she inquired self-reproachfully. Greatly to her relief I volunteered to. Go in pursuit of the wanderer, and taking a cross path over the fields, soon overtook him. He had just been rejected at the house of our nearest neighbor, and was standing in a state of dubious perplexity in the street. His looks quite justified my mothers' superstitions. He was an olive-complexioned, blackbearded Italian, with an eye like a live coal, such a face as perchance looks out on the traveler in the passes of the Abruzzi—one of those bandit visages which Salvator has painted. With some difficulty I gave him to understand my errand, when he overwhelmed me with thanks and joyfully followed me back. He took his seat with us at the supper table and when we were all gathered around the hearth, that cold autumnal evening, he told us, partly by words and partly by gestures, the story of his life and misfortunes, amused us by descriptions of the great gatherings and festivals of his sunny clime, edified my mother with a recipe for making bread with chestnuts; and, in the morning when, after breakfast, his dark, sullen face lighted up, and his fierce eye moistened with grateful emotion, as in his own silvery Tuscan accent he poured out his thanks, we marvelled at the fears which had so nearly closed our doors against him; and as he departed we all felt that he had left with us the blessing of the poor. "It was not often that, as in the above instance, my mother's prudence got the better of her charity. The regular old stragglers regarded her an unfailing friend; and the sight of her plain cap was to them an assurance of forthcoming creature comforts." Other members of the Whittier household in the poet's boyhood were his elder sister Mary, who died in 1861; Uncle Moses Whittier, who in 1824 received fatal injuries from the falling of a tree which he was cutting down; the poet's younger brother, Matthew, who was born in 1812 and was a contributor to the newspapers of humorous dialect articles, signed "Ethan Spike, from Hornby;" and finally the aunt, Mercy E. Hussey; the younger sister Elizabeth, and occasionally the half-welcome eccentric guest, Harriet Livermore. Of Whittier's Uncle Moses, he writes: Our uncle, innocent of books, Was rich in lore of fields and brooks, The ancient teachers never dumb Of Nature's unhoused lyceum, In moons and tides and weather wise, He reads the clouds as prophecies, And foul or fair could well divine, By many an occult hint and sign, Holding the cunning warded keys To all the woodcraift mysteries; Himself to Nature's heart so near That all her voices in his ear Of beast or bird had meanings clear. Of his eldest sister Mary, who died in 1861, he says: There, too, our elder sister plied Her evening task the stand beside; A full, rich nature, free to trust, Truthful and almost sternly just, Impulsive, earnest, prompt to act, And make her generous thought a fact, Keeping with many a disguise The secret of self-sacrifice. Centering his thought and feelings on his younger sister, Elizabeth who, like himself, was a poet, he wrote: As one who held herself a part Of all she saw, and letsher heart Against the household bosom lean, Upon the motley-braided mat Our youngest and our dearest sat, Lifting her large, sweet, asking eyes, Now bathed within the fadeless green And holy peace of Paradise." Snowbound was first published in 1860, and was written, Mr. Whittier has said, "to beguile the weariness of a sick-chamber." Of descriptions of the class that appear in this poem, Mr. Pancoast writes: "To describe such scenes both truthfully and poetically requires power of no mean order and to this power Whittier added sympathy with the lives of those who toil." And. Mr. Bronson says: Snowbound, that unique idyl of New England country life in winter, is, on the whole, Whittier's greatest and most characteristic poem. Nearly all his previous life had been an unconscious preparation for it, and his ancestors had a hand in it before he was born. It could have been written only, by one bred on a New England farm." Whittier was of fine New England stock; inheriting her legacy of moral, intellectual and spiritual wealth. These qualities he breathed into the lines of Snowbound. No one has reflected New England atmosphere more perfectly than he. As a literary expression of New England rural life, Snowbound is not excelled by anything that has been written; it is very justly styled one of the few American classics. 
 Questions 1. Read the lines from Snowbound describing the aunt, to the class. 2. If you think Snowbound is a description of rural life in general, as well as rural life in New England, tell why. 3. Why are literary critics justified in speaking of Whittier as a democratic poet? The word democratic is used in the broad sense.
4. Find as many lines as you can in Snowbound that indicate that Whittier believed in the life after death.
Social Service
LESSON IV (Fourth Week in February) THE STANDARD OF LIVING
The social worker, in an effort to understand the forces that act on the individual in the processes of development and adjustment, very soon becomes aware of the great economic differences which exist in society today. The child, born in the slums of a city, where the struggle for mere food and shelter is a daily actual fact, has an entirely different set of experiences from the child whose parents can provide not only the needs, but the luxuries of life. The student of sociology must recognize that there is a great difference in economic standards, and must understand that these standards determine, to a certain extent, the kind of influence that the home, the church, the school and the community will exert on the individual. An insight into economic standards is therefore essential to an understanding of man's development and his struggle for satisfactory adjustment.
The term "standard of living" could be more easily understood if a standard could be stated in dollars and cents. It is impossible, however, to say that a family of a certain number should be able to provide certain things on a certain income. A standard cannot be stated in terms of income because a stated income cannot secure the same things for every family. A family's needs differ at different times, depending on the age of its members, the degree of health enjoyed, the ability of the mother to manage a home, the demand of certain types of employment