[Vol1 | November 1914 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Genealogy | Title: Genealogy and Testimony]

GENEALOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson II.
Ten Minutes Talk on Current Events.
Preparing Sheets for Temple Use: "Whatsoever you record on earth shall be recorded in heaven, and whatsoever you do not record on earth shall not  be recorded in heaven." Doc. and Cov. 128: 8.
In preparing this lesson, the class teacher will need to secure blanks from the temple in her district.
There are three kinds of blanks issued for recording information to be used in our temple ordinance work.
They are Baptismal sheets, : which are used also for endowment purposes; marriage sheets, which are used only for names of the dead who are to be sealed adoption sheets, which are used only for the purpose; of recording the names of the two parents and the family of children who are to be adopted to the parents.
Each member of the class should have a sample sheet of all three of these record sheets, that this lesson might be prepared intelligently and carefully.
Let the class teacher read the instructions on the baptismal sheet first, and then ask the class to prepare the sheet according to those instructions, and the same plan should be followed with all of the other sheets.
You will observe several points; first, that all the men's names are put upon one sheet together for baptism and endowment purposes, and that all of the women's names are arranged in like manner.
The marriage sheets have only the names of the couples to be sealed, without adding their children.
The adoption sheets are arranged for recording one family thereon.
Where there are but one or two children in a family, more than one family can be written on one sheet.
Another point to be noted is that the numbering of these names is the clue by which the genealogist keeps order in his records.
The numbers should be copied from the written family record, and not numbered on the sheet itself.
For instance, if John Young is numbered in my temple record as 15, I should copy that number on my temple sheet, no matter whether he were first, last, or in the middle of the sheet.
This allows the genealogist to know at a glance where the names belong m his record when he receives the sheet back from the temple.
If the genealogist has several record books at home, and they are lettered a, b, c, etc., he should know exactly where the sometimes happens that the particular John Young belongs.
It genalogists carry their numbers only up to 5,000, and then 6 begin at number 1, so that the number of the book as well as the number of the name should be noted on the temple sheet.
The blank forms are reproduced in miniature in your Genealogical Lesson Book, to which please refer.
November HOME ETHICS Lesson III.
Christ, Our Example. "If a man say, 'I love God' and hateth his brother, he is a liar for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how; can he love God, whom he hath not seen?" In the centuries far back, when Britain was unknown, when the Germans were defying Caesar's staunch legions, Christ lived and was crucified in a small, despised section of the Roman empire.
Though Christ never crossed the borders of his native country, save in his infancy, and though few ever beheld him in the flesh, he is today worshipped by millions upon millions of men.
He is worshipped for his divinity, and for his atonement.
He is known by us through those sacred books, the Bible and the Book of Mormon.
Our knowledge of him is illuminated by the witness of the Spirit, to the extent that he appears to us as indeed our Elder Brother, our Teacher, and as the great Exemplar.
Through the study of the gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, it is borne in upon us that living up to the teachings of Christ would, in the ages, cause men to approach the wisdom and power of God.
The almost astounding truth is that his teachings, though of the highest ethical form, are not only workable but practical, and we discover that if we will, we each can order the conduct of our daily lives after the manner of the Son of Man.
Let us read his life as recorded by the apostles, seeking to fasten into our hearts his every act and teaching, so that we may know how to emulate his example.
Was he frank, sincere, just, reasonable, humble, patient, long-suffering, forgiving, generous, kind, thoughtful, courageous, truthful, sympathetic, willing to bless and comfort?
Was he serene, calm and unruffled, in trial?
Let each member recite at least one of his sayings, that will be a guiding principle in life.
Let each member relate an incident in the life of Christ that came as a blessing to some one else, and remains an example to us for better living.