[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: AN ALLEGORY. | Author: Unknown]

AN ALLEGORY.

OUT of the East one radiant morn,
  Staunch and true, with the sea to cope,
A ship sailed far adown the bourne, 
  Freighted with love and faith and hope.
Blue was the sea and bright was the sky, 
  Sunbeams gilded each spar with gold; 
The dancing diamond spray leaped high, 
  And white sails spreading, fold on fold,—
Seemed like birds of promise hast’ning far
  To a home-nest beautiful o'er the Bar,
	What Port O, sailor? I cried!
“Hope love and faith, are my freightage,
  And I sail to the fair Western Gate;
To the land of promise and glory,
  Where love crowned with laurels doth wait.”
“Ah! but do ye not fear the tempest, 
  With its giant strength and power, 
When the sea shall rise in its fierceness
And crush thee as ’t would a flower?
When the heavens now blue and smiling
  Are black with the wild driving storm,
And deep ocean caverns are yawning
  To engulf thy fair buoyant form,
When the wild winds shall shriek around thee
  Like demons of the mighty deep,
And tear asunder thy white sails,
  And the mad waves shall o’er thee leap?
	O, sailor furl thy sails!
“Nay, for my ship is staunch in her youth, 
  My cargo though precious is light;
And Hope guides the helm, and Faith
  Tells me that love will outlast the night.”
"But the night cometh sudden and dark
  And the clouds go scurrying by,—
Winds call ’cross foam-flecked waters; hark
  Hear how the thunders crash in the sky!—
Now the ship breasts the highest billows,—
  Now sinketh adown in the main,—
Like Pharaoh, the waves engulf her,—
  Her sails are torn by the hurricane.
The storm comes in darkness and fury,
  The ship strains at every seam,
The sailor grows heart-sick and weary,
  And of sunlight there’s never a gleam:
She hath battled so long with commotion
  She is wounded and worn with the toil;
Let her rest on thy bosom, O, Ocean!
  Cease thy fury and warring turmoil,
	Be tranquil, thou Sea!


Afar in the west there’s a gleam of light,
	And the roar of the sea sinks to murm’ring sighs,
The stars of hope shine out i’ the night,
	And the ship reads her way in the skies
She has battled bravely, well and long,
	For her freightage of hope, faith and love;
The haven is near and true and strong
	She will anchor where naught can move.
		The tempest is o’er.
Now nearer comes the long’d for Port in sight,
	Where waters gently lap the shining sand;
Gone are the fears and dangers of the night,
	And love eternal, clasps thee by the hand,
		O, gentle sailor! 
                                                            M.C.W.
Oct. 15, 1892.


