Tell Your Troubles to the Iceman.
By Kate Thomas.
Miranda heaved a sigh of relief, as she waved her hand to the last retreating figure. It was awful to be glad to see folks go, but, after all, they were going for a good time. She begrudged them nothing, so why should she not rejoice in the thought of the house to herself for one whole month? A long, beautiful, unbroken quiet in which she could do as she pleased. No one to boss her, no ill-trained children to say don't to, no indolent ones to waste time and energy on by spurring them to do. No dishes. She could eat what she pleased. Cantaloupes and tomatoes, cucumbers and watermelon, olives and lettuce, nuts and raisins, and big crusts of baker's rolls with milk. Not one thing would she cook in all that month. And best of all, there would be no front door traffic by dirty-booted big boys too lazy and too inconsiderate to go around. In fact, all front door traffic, except for callers, should cease. At least it would not be her fault if the daily-growing-more-sloppy family did not get the impulse to go back to its more orderly habits. Losing no time, she went immediately from the gate to the telephone. When she hung up the receiver it was with the blessed knowledge that next morning a man would be on hand to nail up the little tin notice that peddlers, workmen, delivery boys, and venders in general were to inquire at the proper entrance. Then she got a bucket, a digging fork and a pickaxe. It was an unusually hot, dry summer. The lawn was a stretch of yellow patches, relieved by very little green. No use hoping to save that, but she might revive the drooping trees. The dear, helpful trees that gave the kindly shade! It was hard for her slight strength to make any headway in the packed, clay soil. Buckets and buckets from the ditch she carried to soften it. Slowly but steadily she dug trenches around the trees and carried more buckets and buckets to fill them. She tied the straggling branches of the climbing rose, dug a little trench at its roots and poured in a bucket there. The struggling treelings along the fence caught her eye. Bravely, in spite of the drought, they were making their fight for life. "Humans aren't the only ones to fight for that little commodity," she soliloquized. "If I could get out those weeds that are taking their share of moisture it would give the trees a chance." It was a hard undertaking, but she went at it. More buckets and buckets to soften. More little cups dug at the roots, and then more buckets and buckets to fill them. Simple Simon wasn't so imbecile after all. You could catch a whale of a job in a pail, 
She sat down on the steps and surveyed her job. She was tired. As was her wont, she had done everything at once. Three weeks of straight loafing followed by four weeks' work in one was Miranda's way. She had found the steady routine of daily housework, unrelieved as it usually is, by any word of praise or sympathy, deadly dull and unspeakably trying. She believed that 'physically, mentally and morally' she was 'quite unfitted for work.' "That's why I take so long to think it over before doing any,' she explained. No one, not even herself, knew how much she really did. She was one of those persons born to go through life disconnected with any halo of labor even though her back were breaking. Sometimes she resented this fact, but accepted it as unchangeable. Now she sat and gazed at her work. The baby trees looked very attractive, cleared of the rubbish that had almost covered them, and the old board fence as well. "Nobody will notice it but me," she thought. "But it doesn't matter. Anyway it's only what you see with your own eyes that gets to your soul. They are darling little trees! And they've got more sense than people. Just look how they are coming up in the very places where they will be most needed. I know lots of folks with diplomas who can't do that." She was so stiff when she arose. It was queer how a few hours of different occupation could make your knees wobble so. "I'm almost unfitted for prayer,' she commented. "A few more buckets and I'll go in." An ice wagon rumbled by as she bent once more at the ditch. The driver looked down with a friendly smile. "You ought to be singing, 'The Old Oaken Bucket'," he said. "Can't," she answered, "Its metal. Besides I haven't breath enough left to sing." "Ha, Miranda! In one light phrase you have struck the chord of the drudgers. Keeping their warped souls in their ill-used bodies is a task. They haven't breath enough left to sing!" The next morning the last of the front-door vendors came. "Any vegetables?" "If you will go to the back door the cook will tell you," said Miranda. Then she went back through the house, opened the back door and said coolly, "No, thank you." The man, an ill-tempered "dago," went away scowling. She was pretty sure he would not come again, and felt somewhat elated. She couldn't stand the sight of his one poor, old, stiff-kneed, rib-protruding horse. Miranda was patriotic. She preferred to patronize the clean, home-grown Bountiful youths with their well-cared for teams and produce fresh from their own farms. "Bread!" came an insistent voice. The baker was a chatty youngster who had taken his job TELL YOUR TROUBLES TO THE ICEMAN 411 and a pretty flapper wife at almost the identical moment. He had been coming for six months. He looked at her somewhat piteously as he held out the basket. Plainly he was in the dumps. "Any trouble?" she asked lifting out the crisp rolls. "My wife threatens to leave me!" Oh, gloom of the infernal pit! Orpheus outside the door of Hades bewailing his lost Eurydice with the three-headed dog snapping at his heels to drive him farther off! It was a miserable little tale. "I treated her as good as could be. I gave her all my wages. 3ut she says it isn't enough. She went to all the shows while I was working. I never cut her down any, and she's had a good time. I never complained about what she spent." "Perhaps you should have," said Miranda. "It's an even game, half-and-half, you know. Did you tell her what your wages were when you asked her to marry you?" "Ves, and I told her she could have it all." "That was rather foolish. You are both young and have lots of lessons to learn. You should learn them together." "We can't, nov." "Why, she hast.'t gone yet, has she?" "No, but she says she will." "Cheer up. Now and then a woman has been known to change her mind. Of course, it isn't often, but it has happened." "T think it's my mother-in-law," he continued hopelessly. "I know my wife gives her quite a bit of money." "Oh, then she's saving it for her!" t "No. No. She wouldn't do that, she's always spoiled her herself." b "Maybe she realizes her mistake now and is trying to make up or it." 5 "No. No," said the baker, shaking his head solemnly. "1 wotldn't believe that much good of either of them. And I'm going to love my job," it was the first alertness he had shown, "so I can't give her any more." "Fine!" said Miranda. "And I think you'll find you are worrying needlessly. Pshaw! Everybody tiffs once in awhile. Why, quarrelling is the cheapest pleasure married folks can have. They don't have to spend a cent on it. And they can take their friends in on a free ticket, too!" The bread man brightened. "I guess you're right," he said. "Surely, I'm right," she agreed enthusiastically. "I'm always right. Only sometimes its hard to make the other fellow see it. It seems too bad," she continued, changing the subject, "to ask you to call every morning when two rolls is all I shall need. If you like, I'll get them at the corner store." 412 "I’d rather bring them. You seem to understand so," he answered. Morning chats with the bread man, tabulated Miranda's thinking machine. Well, he was lonely; it wouldn't hurt her to help him over it. Besides she was interested in the outcome. She hoped the flapper bride would have good sense. She began the dishes. There were plenty of them—left over from the day before. She had been too tired to wash them, and she was doing as she pleased. "Tce ie? "T think so. Fill it up so it will last." Miouw! Wow! Bang, smash! The first was from the cat, the second from the iceman, the third from the ice. He had stepped on her, jumped two feet in fright, and dropped the ice on the stone step. "Poor cat! Poor iceman! Poor ice! Poor me!" laughed startled Miranda. "That makes your heart beat faster than getting a valentine! My gain and the company's loss," she said putting the ice into a pan. "Too bad you got that scare. Bring me an extra big piece for the same money to make up for it." The grinning man departed. Coming back with the ice he asked, "That blooming animal isn't around now is she?" "No fear. The bloom of that blooming animal is wilted. She'll run from you for the next seven moons.' The iceman carefully took out the milk bottle and half a dozen bottles of root beer, put in the ice and replaced the bottles in order. "You may have one if you like," said Miranda. He deserved something for stepping on the cat. Perhaps she had learned a lesson now and would keep out of the way.: Stepping on cats was a horrible sensation—_nearly as bad as stepping on toads— and Miranda was always doing it. The iceman liked, he preferred, drinking it there. " T heard what you said to the guy that just went out. That's why I never married," he volunteered. "Didn't like the idea of quarrelling, and girls want more than a man'can give 'em nowadays. YRitiranda turned silently to her dishes. He finished the root beer and stood looking at her. "Ts this a hard place?" jhe asked. "Sometimes I think so," she answered laconically. "T have one crazy boss, but the others are all right." She did not answer. "Well, so long. Thanks for the drink," and he was gone. "It looks like I am in for conversations," mused Miranda. I don't mind tiding the breadman over, but I can't talk to everybody." TELL YOUR TROUBLES TO THE ICEMAN 413 She kept out of sight when he replenished the ice next time. But the time after that he caught her. "You are always working," he said.. "I've got a friend that boards up the. Street. He says that every time he passes you are pumping water." Jupiter! Zeus! And all the other Greek and Roman gods! Life was surely empty to someone if you couldn't carry buckets and buckets without being commented upon! She turned on him with incredulous, cold eyes. "You don't mean that I am the subject of discussion with your friends?" "Don't get hot. He was just praising you. I thought you'd like to hear a compliment." "I detest compliments," she snapped, "especially from strangers." "Don't get huffy. He didn't mean no harm. He lives with a German, and the German says you'd be a good, industrious wife." "Well, tell him I wouldn't." She laughed in spite of herself. It was too funny. "I suppose to some nice, kind man who would love to sit on the porch and watch me at my work. Please, when you are with your friends, talk about ice and the weather and leave me out of it." I talk about ice when I talk about you!" he flung at her. "And the weather is hot!" "Not so bad for an iceman," she chuckled to herself. "I wonder if I'd better put on my pink plush and my oleomargine so that man will recognize my rank and station." However, she didn't. She was in the same bungalow apron and she was frving onions. She was treating herself to one mess of the smelly things while everyone was away. "Have you worked awfully hard?" he asked. "No. I'm just loafing. Don't feel sorry for me, I never work much." His thoughtfulness touched her. "Would you like to go out to Saltair tonight?" he asked awkwardly. Heavens! He was no freshie to be taken down. He was sincere and shy. "Tt's nice of you to ask me," she said, "but I couldn't go. I mustn't leave the house alone." "They shouldn't tie you up like this," he protested. "The old house will keep!" Then the breadman came, quite out of time. He had evidently been telling his troubles all along his route. His face was white and his young eyes were strained. "She's gone home to her mother," he whispered. "She says for a week, for a change and rest. But she'll never come back. Her mother's been egging her on to it!" Why should young hearts have these heavy trials? The pity of it! The boy couldn't be more than twenty. His misery made her heart ache. "Perhaps you are doing her and her mother a wrong by distrusting them," she said. '"Why. Don't you take them at their word? Send her a box of candy, and a sweet little note telling her how you miss her and how glad you -will be when the week is up; but how glad you are, too, that she is having a jolly, restful time. Try it. But don't go to see her. You want to find out don't you?" she asked as the boy's face fell, "whether she really loves you and misses yow too." "You honestly believe that's the thing to do?" He looked at her pathetically. "I honestly believe that's the thing to do." But her heart sank, What if the way should be wrong? The iceman stood listening and the two of them went away together. Miranda felt tired. More tired than when she carried buckets and buckets of water. Poor boy! And all she could do for him was hope. But the iceman, returning, had a grievance. "Do you belong to this family?' he exploded. 'Are you their daughter?" "Yes," she answered. "And you let me think you was the hired girl, and led me on to asking you to go out with me!" Alas Miranda! She, a "verging" self-accepted subdued and refined spinster accused of—flirting! She could have rolled on the floor with hilarity. But a keen sense of humor is a good thing to have. She knew when not to laugh. "Didn't you want me to go?" she asked seriously. "Of course," he answered staring at her, "but—" "And I refused because J had to stay with the house. But I knew that you had asked me in kindness because you really wanted to give me a good time. And I thank you for that kindness. I hope you will always be kind, and to all women. We need it so. I should like to feel that every woman you meet from now on will look at you with the same good wish in her heart that 1 have now." Here the young baker bounded in. "Tt's just as you said!" he cried happily. "I met her and her mother on the corner. They're going downtown to buy the baby clothes. I'm going to have a baby! Gee! I'm bugs over it! That's why her mother took the money. She said Lil was foolish and she ought to save for Jt. You bet, I'll never forget you!" "Good luck!" said Miranda. Her heart was full. 'Good luck to both of you." And the breadman and the iceman once more walked away together. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—