The Editor Abroad ITALY By Alice Louise Reynolds. The tourist is, as a rule, either in search of places of interest or of beauty. At the moment we are in what is generally conceded to be the most beautiful mountain city of the world, Imsbruck, in Austria. Much has been written about the heauty of this city of the Tyrol; suffice to say, at present, that it would be a difficult matter to write extravagantly about it. Italy, the subject of this chapter, has its beauty spots, yet it is not generally sought because of its many and varied interests. Italy is the home of three civilizations, and reflects a fourth in a very extraordinary manner, We left our readers last time at the gates of the citv of Pompeii. Pompeii was built by the Greeks, and reflects Greek civilization to a degree that it is not easy to measure. The best sculpture that Italy exhibits, in her exceptionally fine museums, both in Naples and Rome, is that which has come from Greece. An eminent writer on Greek art, declares that all that is best in Roman sculpture is Greek, and that which is worst is Roman. Italy was the seat of the old Roman Empire; on every side one sees ruins that bear eloquent testimony of the greatness of the empire that practically dominated the world. In fact, tourists sometimes get very tired of looking at these ruins, for they are at best rather unsightly. ''In Italy," exclaimed an American girl, in a jocular fashion, "if it isn't a ruin, its a wreck." To be sure, it is the meaning that attaches to all these things that makes them important. Then we have the Italy of the middle ages and the Italy of the Renaissance?the Italy of the Roman Catholic Church. The period that built a most extraordinary number of fine churches and covered the ceilings and walls with paintings such as churches have seldom, if ever, in the history of our world been embellished with. Today we have a new Italy that has brought together all the little republics and petty kingdoms that used to exhaust themselves' fighting one another. This new Italy is about fifty-five years of age, and has as its king the grandson of the man largely responsible for its unity. This new Italy is placing the entire civilization of the world under great obligation to it, because of the manner in which it is seeking to reveal and conserve the past. In 1906, when we first visited Italy, much of the city of Pompeii was unearthed; on our last visit, only a few weeks ago, very much more is visible, THE EDITOR ABROAD 419 and the museum at Naples, which is the custodian of most of the interesting and precious things taken from the city, has been enriched immeasurably. The great paintings of the Middle Ages such as the Aurora, to be foand on the ceiling of a Roman palace, and the Last Supper, in Milan, are receiving the utmost intelligent care that they may be preserved. Because of the many interests of Italy, tourists are rushing there from all parts of the world. This is particularly true of the present year, for this is a year of Jubilee, observed every twenty-five years by the Roman Catholic Church. From our own, city of Boston, the cardinal, who resides there, headed a party of five hundred pilgrims to the city of the Pope. Our guide in Naples told us that he would not be at all surprised if six million tourists visited Naples this year. Very likely, more tourists see Naples than any other city in Italy, as the cruising vessels usually stop there for a day or so and then proceed on their way either East or West. 'See Naples and die," was the exclamation of the Italian poet who stood on a height from which he could see the horseshoe of the lovely Vesuvian bay; but fortunately most people are not content with seeing only the bay, having seen that, they want to see more; so that Naples is only one of a group of Italian cities that is feeling the influx of visitors. We heard it said that unusually cheap rates had been offered to Sicily to divert the tourist to a part where the hotels are not entirely occupied. Tourists were held back from Florence in the month of April and during that same month Milan found it impossible to accommodate the many visitors asking to be taken care of. The city of Naples is often the first city of Italy entered by the tourist. It is famous for its situation on the bay; it was in a hotel overlooking its blue waters that Caruso breathed his last. Its picturesqueness is added to by Mount Vesuvius, that juts up in its semi-circle, emitting a cloud of smoke by day and a pillar of fire by night. The city of Naples is interesting because its great museum contains all of what is best that has been taken from the ruins of Pompeii and Herculaneum, as well as many of the finest treasures of Greek art that were brought from Greece to adorn the Villa of the Emperor Hadrian. And again, Naples is of interest, because it is the largest city of the Italy of today. Yet we fancy some of our readers are asking, "Are there no drawbacks to this city of blue skies and blue waters?" and we, of course, unhesitatingly admit that there are. When we first saw Naples, in 1906, it was the dirtiest city we had ever seen, and it was infested with beggars, many of whom asked us for alms, but some who demanded a tip for such a slight service as pointing out a door in a building we had already paid to enter, or for that matter closing a door behind us. Since our first visit to Italy, we have seen the Orient, so that we know that there are 420 other dirty cities, and other cities infested with beggars. However, it is only fair to say that Naples is much cleaner and much freer from beggars than it was in 1906. We had in our party, through Italy, a trained nurse and her companion a trained librarian. These two ladies were constantly offended, as were we all, because the food in the shops is exposed, and because many laws of sanitation are much more honored in the breach than in the observance. To be sure, the Italians have some distance to travel before they arrive at American standards in matters of sanitation, yet the fact that they forbid the burying of the dead within and about the churches as they did formerly, insisting that the cemetery shall be far distant from the heart of the city, shows that they are waking up to these matters. Passing from Naples to Rome, the capital of the present kingdom of Italy, we find proof of the popular saying that size is not everything. Rome is the third city of Italy, in size, Naples and Milan surpassing her in the number of her population; yet Rome is by all odds the most important city in italy. Rome is important because she was the capitol of the Old Roman Empire, and because the most important ruins of that city are found either within her ancient walls, or at a not very great distance from them. Rome as the chief city of the Roman Catholic church is also of great importance, and this year it is the city to which pilgrims' feet are turned from all over the world. Rome is, above all other cities in the world, the city of churches. Its churches are very numerous, and some of them are very beautiful as well as very important. In her museums are found some of the most priceless treasures of Greek and Roman art that this world possesses;: she is conserving for all the world valuable old books, valuable pieces of sculpture, valuable pieces of painting and valuable presents, to the various Popes, presented by the crowned heads of all the world. Mr. H. H. Powers in speaking of modern Rome, speaks of her as a city "masking the monuments of church and empire" which we take is a very unique way of saying that modern Rome owes her greatness to the fact that she was the seat of the Great Roman Catholic church for many centuries." Mr. Powers adds, "It is with varied emotions that the thoughtful traveler enters the Eternal City," and concludes his paragraph with the exclamation, ' "What city is like Rome!" an exclamation that is apt to find echo 'in the minds and hearts of all who thoughtfully enter there. Then there is Florence, the city that for its art output has had _only one peer since the world began; for Athens is the only other city, since the dawn of civilization, that has given to the world the names of as many noted sculptors, painters and writers as has Florence. Florence has made a real contribution to the world in architecture, painting, sculpture and in literature. All nations A STREET SCENE IN NAPLES are enriched because of her achievements, consequently all nations should rise and call her blessed. Florence had two great leaders, Lorenzo de' Medici and Savonarola. The first drew to his own fireside and his own table men of promise and gave them encouragement. Verily, his reward has been great, for if he did not entertain angels unawares he entertained geniuses of the highest order. The other man, the great Savonorola, set these men's souls on fire with righteous impulses. Verily, both have their reward, for Florence nursed the genius of the man who painted what has been called the greatest of all Christian paintings, "The Last Supper," and gave to the world the greatest of all Christian sculptors, and perhaps, also, the greatest of all Christian architects, in Michelangelo. And perhaps, what Michelangelo did was even more than that, for Mr. Powers tells us that when Michelangelo wrought his wonder-works in marble, the best of Greek art was unknown to the Italians, consequently he boldly states, "that the feeblest work of Michelangelo ever executed was nobler than the best antique," that the Italians then knew. Vitamines By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education Vitamines are probably the most talked of food substances at the present time. Their history and development are the result of painstaking experiment in animal feeding and the careful study of cause and effect of diet on humans. Several diseases are now well defined which seem closely related to the consumption of limited variety or poorly selected foods. While interest at the present time is keen in this important food factor it seems well here to offer a word of caution. Vitamines are only one of several important elements in nutrition. No less authority than Dr. Mary Swartz Rose says that altogether too much emphasis is being placed on vitamines. The old adage, "Be not the first the new to try nor yet the last. To lay the old aside," might well apply to the science of nutrition. Good standards in nutrition do not require mad chasing after food fads. In order, however, to profit by the many painstaking experiments and careful conclusions reached by a number of men who are devoting their lives to this field, it seems wise to give their findings some consideration. The term vitamin was coined in 1912 by Cassimar Funk and means "life giving" because diets in which the vitamines are lacking prolong life without growth only a short time and then death results if changes are not effected in the diet. The history and development of the so called vitamin is full of interest to the student of science. It also has an appeal for the homemaker because it helps her to understand the great importance of having foods in right amounts and kind if she would increase the resistance and improve the health standards of her family. In fact intelligent meal planning and satisfactory food preparation is much more interesting if some attention is given to the better known vitamines A, B, and C. The term vitamin would better be considered as a family name. Vitamines D, E, and X have already been added to the list. It is more than probable that additional members will be discovered and that their function and uses in the body will be quite as interesting as any information we now have regarding A, B, C. Other experimenters have applied different terms of these so called "Accessory food factors." Much of the discussion on them has been highly technical but the laymen need also to know something as to what they are and what their functions are in the body. Vitamines A, B, and C, deal with the cause and cure of three diseases which result from their absence. Contrary to popular opinion this development is less recent than is popularly supposed. The first interest expressed in relation of food selection and health VITAMINES 423 was in connection with one of the present so called deficiency diseases known as scurvy as early as 1920, Kramar wrote that neither medicine nor surgery could give relief in scurvy. His experiments proved that the use of green vegetables and antiscorRAT A Rat A. The diet for this rat consisted of food products which are essentially storage organs of plants such as grains and roots and muscle meats. This diet is low in ash constituents and vitamin A and is inadequate for growth. RAT B Rat B. The diet of this rat was similar in every respect to that shown in Rat A except a generous use of milk was given this rat. The addition of this so called protective food made the othe~- wise unsatisfactory diet adequate. 424 butic juices would, without the use of medicines, cure this disease which for many years has meant suffering and death where men were deprived of fresh foods for more than six weeks at a time. In further confirmation of this belief in 1804 the British Navy had lemon juice as a part of the regular ration. At the present time the juices of citrus fruits, raw cabbage, sauerkraut and green leaf vegetables are recognized for their antiscorbutic qualities. Radical changes in dietary customs have often resulted in disease. This is noticeably true in the development of beri beri in the Japanese army. Between the years 1878-1882 this disease was much more prevalent than previous to this time. Careful study and much experimentation showed that this disease resulted when the Japanese soldiers were put on a diet consisting largely of polished rice rather than the unpolished rice which had been customary before this period. The controlling factor in this change in dietary customs was later found to be the so called Vitamin B. Much of our knowledge of vitamines has been the result of careful experiments in animal nutrition. Workers along this line of research sought to determine values of different kinds of foods by feeding diets having carefully controlled amounts of pure proteins, carbohydrates and fats. Hopkins as early as 1906 determined and reported that "no animal can live upon a mixture of pure protein, carbohydrate and fat, even when the necessary inorganic material is carefully supplied, as the animal cannot flourish without the presence of vitamines in the diet. The animal body is adjusted to live either upon plant tissues or other animals and these contain countless substances other than the proteins carbohydrates and fats." In these experiments with animals it was found that when the diet was inadequate for proper growth or maintenance a small addition of milk would often make the limited diet adequate. In the early experiments much confusion resulted from the addition of milk as the experimenters did not realize that not one but three valuable vitamines A, B, C, were contained in this so called "most perfect food." The present keen interest in nutrition results from two factors. One of these is the outgrowth of a long series of animal experimentation, while the other is a study of cause and effect of different food combinations on human beings. The experimental work with animals by McCollum and Block and Hopkins, Mendell and Sherman paved the way for the conclusions regarding effects of wrong diet upon the individual and group. Animal experimentation further proved that effects of poor diet are cumulative, and that if wrong diet is persisted in during several generations results are more marked in each succeeding generation: by lack of vitality, increased infant mortality, and early aging. Considerable impetus was given to the study of foods con- VITAMINES 425 taining vitamin A during the war because of eye sickness or zerothalmia which was prevalent among the children of some of the Scandinavian countries. A study of the epidemics showed that this resulted when the diet lacked foods containing vitarnin A. In the countries most affected, all of the butter fat and cod liver oil had been shipped out to help win the war. Spectacular cures were effected when the addition of one or both of these valuable sources of vitamin A were made to the limited diet. More recent studies in rat colonies have discovered other sources of vitamin A. Green leaf vegetables have been found satisfactory supplementary means of supplying this valuable vitamin when there is little butter in the diet. The Japanese, whose milk supply is extremely limited, make generous use of diffrent kinds of green leaves. Absence of foods containing vitamine A, may cause the socalled deficiency disease zerothalmia or eye sickness. Lack of vitamin B may cause pellagra which is one of the best known deficiency diseases. Partial absence of these food substances may cause much suffering, death in terms of high infant mortality, physical inefficiency, early aging and poor teeth. The present tendency to live on foods low in ash and vitamines is producing far too many cases of borderline nutrition. The so called typical American diet, according to McCollum, of bread, 'meat, potatoes and pie is low in ash and vitamines. More attention must be given to increased consumption of milk, green leaf vegetables, root vegetables, fresh fruits and some whole grains. The diet of the nursing mother should contain a generous amount of food containing vitamin C in order to protect the child from this disease. From studies made by the American Medical Society it has been found: That breastfed babies are much less apt to develop scurvy. That the use of raw cow's milk causes little scurvy. That the use of pasteurized milk causes considerable scurvy. That the use of condensed cow's milk causes about four times as much scurvy as pasteurized milk. That the use of proprietary foods cause the greatest number of cases of scurvy. Their records show that out of 366 cases studied 214 resulted from the use of proprietary foods. When milk is the chief food of young infants less danger of scurvy results. When the proportion of milk is decreased and the use of cereals increased then the amount of anti-scorbutic fruit juices (oranges, lemons, raspberries, tomatoes) should be increased. Because of the danger in milk that isn't produced under absolutely clean conditions it is becoming more and more customary to use milk that has been heated or pasteruized. When this is done additional care must be taken to protect the baby from scurvy 426 by making small additions of fruit and vegetable juices containing vitamin C. Infantile scurvy was recognized in 1894 and has developed since it has been possible to rear a larger number of babies, since proprietary foods, condensed, and pasteurized milk, have been used. The discovery of vitamin C and its functions has been one of the biggest factors in decreasing infant mortality. In addition to the easily detected cases of scurvy there are many cases of border malnutrition which are really borderline cases of scurvy where the patient is below his optimum state of health. Scurvy develops gradually. The sufferer loses weight, is anaemic pale, weak and short of breath. Scurvy always means lack of appetite. When there is only a limited amount of green vegetables in the diet, do not overcook. This also applies to fruits, as fruit jellies made quickly are more valuable than those cooked over a longer period. In Conclusion The chief sources of vitamin A are milk and milk products, green leaf vegetables, liver, egg yolk, tomatoes. 'Some little vitamin A is found in grains. The chief source of vitamin B are grains, tomatoes, citrus fruits, green leaf vegetables, root vegetables, nuts, milk and yeast. The chief source of vitamin C are citrus fruits, raspberries, tomatoes, green leaf vegetables and milk. The functions of the vitamines are: Vitamin A helps to resist disease. Vitamin A is important for general stamina. Vitamin A is important for reproduction and lactation. Vitamin A is not destroyed by heat in ordinary food preparation. Lack of Vitamin A inhibits growth for a time. Lack of Vitamin A increases susceptibility to infection. Vitamin B is necessary for appetite. Vitamin B is necessary for maintaining weight. Vitamin B is necessary for normal growth. Vitamin B is necessary for increasing weight. Vitamin C is necessary for protection against scurvy. Vitamin C is necessary for growth. Diets consisting largely of muscle meats, finely milled flours, purified sugars and fats are inadequate from the standpoint of vitamines. Every meal should contain some vitamines. Every day's dietary should contain some vitamines A, }, C. Pictures courtesy of Dr. E. V. McCollum?John Hopkins University.