[Vol52 | October 1965 | Page 736 | Fiction | Mama's Retirement Florence | B. Dunford]
Thursday a bit worried, for I had phoned twice, MAMA'S RETIREMENT and the telephone did not answer, When they were Out of ¢ Joey and I took the bus Over, room, J turned to Mama. "Now, here was a Janitoria] Service ama, out With it," truck out front. One of the men Severely « a slim, blo Said at happened?" man But Mama answered my ring, "J? Seemed suddenly Close to the: - om bed, and took her hand. "Tell," "Oh. She's in her bedroom," He nodded in that direction, "T - She raised her Self on her pillows, but then her Suess she isn't feeling go well," Wen contorted with Pain. "Ty he called after ys. My back and My right side." I found Mama Propped up in "I want to know Now what ed. The Canary yellow walls happened." looked bright and clean. The "Well, it was yesterday - no yellow and gold Chinese Silk the ay befor -. Before the Tapes that I loved so were at the Cleaners came, I had decided. Windows. But the soft beige ry those Tug pads were dirtier than Was gone; the rubber pad folded [I th hat the Cleaners bac under th Could doa etter job on the floors apa was sitting in a StraightIf they were out of the Ouse," acked chair there on the far "But the €avy furniture was Side. He took off his Spectacles on them, - - the piano in the aS We came in. Study. "Oh, arriet, I'm Slad yoy "Your father's Plano that he came." He looked at Mama, then €arned on When he was a bo turned to Joey, € always sa S it is better than "Mama, Whatever happened?" any grand." "But it's SO heavy you M ama slid down a bit in her pj] surely didn't, _ ae Ows. She glanced toward Papa "I could have Managed it al] "Charles, Why don't you take right," Oey out in the bac 8arden. Was just un €r one corner. I had nd take Kelly. " She Seemed a ready Moved the desk off the O bite her tongue, « do as yoy Wish." And then een an architect and SO as not Still liked to play 4round with it. ° stumble on the folded back "But the Piano! Why didn't Padding, and took Joey's hand in you ask Papa to help you?" one of his, "We'll take Kelly and "IT did Mention it to him the 80 for a Walk." night before He wasn t in sym "Where is Kelly?" Joey wanted pathy with the idea. He said to to know. Let the Cleaners do it, That was 'He's shut UP in the utilit What he Was paying them for" room. Makes youyy Grand- "T certainly agree. Especially mother nervous," under the cire umstances."? 


 "When I ask a person once Mama began. "Well, then, your father had to go downtown in the morning, and so I just got busy. It wasn't so much lifting the piano," she went on. "I had to somehow kick the mat from under the leg at exactly the same time." "And so you wrenched your Ibaek." "I'm afraid... Up at me. "Have you had a doctor?" "You know our old Doctor Landis passed away." "But, the new one?.' She looked 39 Miama pulled herself upright again. "Every time I go to him, it's up to the hospital I go, for all those expensive X-rays. Besides, it's just a sprain." "You haven't told me exactly how it happened." "I was just trying to lift the piano and push the mat out at the same time. And I Im afraid I was a bit angry with your father for going downtown and leaving me all the heavy work to do." "You weren't even careful. You went at it too fast." "I know." Mama's voice was more than usually contrite. 'All of a sudden, I just felt something. Well, sort of tear in my side. At the same time my back began to pain. But, I got the pad out from under the piano," she finished in triumph. "And I carried it out to the patio and swept and vacuumed it on both sides."' "And now you're paying for it,' I reminded her. 'Mama, when are you going to learn?" Mama turned her face away from me. When she spoke again, 740 her voice was muffled. "I'm all right. I feel much better today. And I've done something like this before, you know." "TI know. But not this badly." "No," Mama agreed. '"Harriet,' she confided, "you know, this time it scared me. I can just feel..."' she shuddered, 'that ripping feeling... Or sound." '""Mama, I hate to say this, but sometimes I feel you bring these things on yourself." "That's what your father says. I don't think it's very sympathetic of you." "I'm sorry." "You don't realize what I have to put up with. I like things orderly, and I like them done when they need doing. And _ your father " "I know he seems easygoing. But he has the best health of any man his age I know." Tears came into Mama's round blue eyes. "At my _ expense. Sometimes, I think he's just lazy." '"Mama, you know better than that. You say yourself that Daddy polishes your kitchen better than you do." "In his own time,'"' Mama said. "Well, I suppose that's his right. Not many men like to be bossed." "Your father, especially." "Mama, people are different. It's a peculiar thing, but sometimes we seem to marry our opposites. I mean a slow person falls in love with a person who is impatient. I suppose we're looking for balance, the golden mean, or something like that. I suppose it's like the poet said, it's our way of finding order." "What do you mean by that?" Mama's voice was contrite again. "Oh, nothing. Everything. It does mean though that we've got to give way to necessity, to differences in people. That we can't rush in pell-mell, and get our own way the minute we want it. Now, the cleaners would have been glad to move back the pads, or take them up altogether." "I know," Mama said. "That's what they told me. 'You should never lift anything heavy. You can always leave those things to us.' 93 "I hope you'll remember that, Mama." Mama lifted her chin. "Oh, I will, Harriet. This has really scared me. I'Il never never lift anything beyond my strength again." "Not even approaching it. You can always." "I know. Not be so impatient. Or so independent with your father and others. I'm not so young anymore." "None of us is when it comes to things like that." "Maybe your father doesn't feel like that heavy work, either."' "I think you're right. He just doesn't want to admit it." "I'm afraid we'll have to come over to your place for his birthday dinner, after all,'' Mama said. MAMA'S RETIREMENT "We're going to like that. There's a first time for everything. Aren't we going to like it, Joey?" I asked, as he and his grandfather came back into the room. "Grandpa is going to give mea dump truck for his birthday," Joey cried, all aglow. "And I'm never never never going to leave it in a driveway again. Not even our own." Mama's eyes were closed. But there was a gentle smile around her mouth. I knew she was thinking somewhat along the same line, but with doing too much, rather than too little. Order. Order in our households, our personal lives, and in our spiritual lives. It was a good thing, but we had to go about it in an orderly manner. "Just one thing more, Mama," I said. '"You're going to have to get along with my lemon cream pie." Mama moved restlessly there on her pillows, opened her eyes a bit, then closed them again. For one long moment I feared she was going to renege on the whole thing. But then she opened her eyes and smiled, though a trifle wanly. "Everything is going to be all right," she said. And suddenly I knew it would be.