[Vol52 | October 1965 | Page 743 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Cannon Selina Mann, President, Apia Stake Relief Society, a convert to the Church in 1947, was chosen by the Government of Western Samoa to be their representative at a United Nations Human Rights Seminar held in Mongolia August 3-17, 1965. Mrs. Mann traveled through Australia, New Delhi, Moscow, and Irkutsk before arriving at Ulan Bator, Mongolia, on August 2nd. Included in the agenda at the meetings were the meaning and importance of participation of women in public life; factors which affect such participation; measures needed to increase the contributions of women to public life; and the action which might be taken to achieve the objectives considered. Ivy Houtz Woolley, Las Vegas, Nevada, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has recently had a collection of her poems, Sifted From the Sand, published by the Exposition Press, New York. Mrs. Woolley, an accomplished musician, has long been active in volunteer social service work, and has spent many hours reading to the blind. The former Hope Cook, once a New York debutante and a graduate of Sarah Lawrence College, where she majored in Oriental studies, married the Crown Prince of Sikkim soon after her graduation. Now mother of a year-old son, Palden, she was crowned Queen when her husband was crowned King of Sikkim on April 4, in Gangtok, capital of the high Himalayan little kingdom. Her broad education and interest in the problems of the people have made her a helpful person in her new country. Ells Maria Ferriero is considered America's finest Aida. She is a member of the New York City Opera Company, and has sung many difficult and exacting operatic roles throughout the country. Her remarkable voice is especially noted for its depth and vibrancy, and for its enunciation and breath control. Her impersonation of Aida, an Ethiopian princess enslaved by the Egyptians, has been described as ''majestic, glorious, unforgettably tragic." Miss Elizabeth Meehan is an expert in garden lighting, a delightful new fashion which is really an art. She is the color and lighting design coordinator with the Sylvania Electronics Products Company, Salem, Massachusetts. There should be one focal point in a lighted garden, the same as in a painting, she advises. Miss Meehan has won many awards in her field. Helen G. Russell of Gorham, Maine, Professor of Mathematics at Wellesley College, is also a photographer of note. Recently in a World Travel Photo Contest sponsored by the Saturday Review, she won the grand prize for color photography for her appealing picture of a child in a sampan. Her award was a round-trip to Hong Kong, with all expenses paid. Ellen-Ann Dunham, Vice-President of General Foods Corporation, is an expert on designing kitchens. Her unique and original ideas on the arrangement of cupboards and storage space have won acclaim by home economists throughout the world.