[Vol52 | October 1965 | Page 768 | Fiction | Ring Around Her Heart — Chapter 6 | Shirley Thulin]
She spends a week end with Kathy, her roommate, at the Kirk family farm and becomes interested in the family, at the hospital, Joan hears a siren and @ Joan was at the door of the emergency entrance almost as soon as the ambulance was, Her heart was pounding frantically. Who is it? She kept asking herself. Oh, why don't they hurry?

765 Gleanings From the Season of Harvest "'Lovely Growing Old'' oor lovely growing old' like an old house with a granite foundation and filled throughout with the patina of fond memories would be satisfying. There is loveliness in a face wrinkled and shadowed, in hair thinned and silvered, in hands roughened and blemished, when all are mellowed with gentleness and love coming from long service. Eyes that show suffering and forbearance, wet with tears of sympathy and understanding of the vicissitudes of life, and of the goodness of God in spite of all, are beautiful in a sense that young, sparkling eyes can never be. Shoulders stooped a little with life's storms, bodies thickened with hard work and the bearing of children are marks of a beautiful character. I have been known to say in times past, "I don't want to grow old, to show the wear of years, to be gray and wrinkled." Am I inconsistent? For I love old lines, old furniture, old houses, old laces, old silver. If I can be lovely growing old, I am sure I shall be ready for it as I see it approaching.

o brighten our day our eyes with which to see it our ability to enjoy it? Are we thankful as adults for our husbands, who share our lives... For precious children whose care brings such happiness... For the day so hot our lungs are scorched, the better to appreciate the rain... For the wintry winds to sweep the landscape clean are we aware of these things? 764 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Are we grateful enough for simple joys like the first sign of spring as a narcissus breaks the brown earth the song of a bird a waterfall the sound of a distant train whistle... The bright little face of a pansy... A baby's sweet breath... The fragrance of clean clothes... The sparkle of a fresh-washed window... A glowing fire... Buttered popcorn... A nursery rhyme... And Santa Claus? Do we take for granted the homes in which we live... Our Church our countries our schools? Finally, I thought, if every day is the same, thanks, dear Lord, for this, too.

RING AROUND HER HEART "Oh, Mama." Joan suddenly realized she didn't belong there. Little Joey was her friend, but she, was not part of his family and had no reason to stand there listening to his family talk and watching for a sign on his little face watching for a flicker of an eyelid. She slipped out into the hall and they didn't even seem to notice she was gone. For a moment she just stood there and then, as she turned to go, Doctor Desmond was suddenly beside her. "I just got the call, Joan. They told me is it someone Kathy knows?" "It's little Joey. Oh, he's bad, Doctor Desmond, very bad." The Doctor didn't say anything more. He hurried into the room and closed the door behind him. Joan walked slowly down the hall towards the small waiting room. She was about to sit down and wait for news, when she saw Doctor Niles come towards her. "How is he? Is my sister here?" "Yes, in there." "They told me he fell off a horse." "Yes, he's still unconscious." Doctor Niles went into the room, also closing the door. Joan wanted to go to the door and pound on it with her fists. She wanted to be a part of what was going on. She wanted to belong, wished she could feel again the warmth of Joey's little arms around her neck. She couldn't just sit and wait, so she went back to the second floor. The nurses were waiting for Joan when she got there. She tried to sound calm as she told them it was Kathy's little brother who was hurt. She also wanted to 


 tell them that he was her special little friend, but she didn't. She went about her routine with a sickness inside her, and each time the elevator door opened, she expected to see them bringing Joey up for surgery. But they didn't bring him. The afternoon became evening, and she couldn't find anything more to busy herself with, so she went back down to the first floor. She had to know. "Ts there any word on the Kirk boy?" she asked of the floor nurse. "Nothing yet. They have really been working on him." "Any order for surgery prep?" "RS,?" "How about X-ray?" "Not yet." Joan bit her lip. This was bad, for she knew that if Doctor Desmond hadn't ordered X-rays or surgery, the child was losing ground. I feel so helpless, she thought, just like the other times. When the door finally opened, she hurried towards it. It was Doctor Desmond. "How is he?" "Very bad, Joan. He's not going to make it." He stepped over to the desk and said something to the floor nurse. Joan just stood there. The tears were spilling over, and she didn't even wipe them away. They were somehow soothing to her. She turned away so the doctor wouldn't see her cry. It seemed hours before the door opened again and Kathy came out with her mother and father. "You must get some rest,"' she was telling them. "I'll stay with him." Joan watched as Kathy took them to a little room down the 770 hall where Mrs. Kirk could lie down. When Kathy came back, Joan hurried to her. "Kathy, let me stay with him. You should get some rest, too." "I'm all right, Joan. Thanks." "Please, Kathy. It might be better for Joey if you left." "I've told Mom I'd stay." Doctor Desmond came over to them. He put his arm around Kathy's shoulders. "Come on, Kathy, let me take you to your room. I'll tell you immediately if there's any change." Kathy let him take her by the hand, and they went down the hall together. J oANn stepped into the dim room. The little form on the bed was so still that it frightened her. She sat beside Joey and began to talk softly to him, but he did not stir. And the night passed in unreality. The nurses who came silently with their tiny flashlights, checking and changing the upside down bottles of clear liquid which dripped through tubes, were like figures in a stage play. The silent figures in white who came to take temperatures and wrap the wide gray cloth around the tiny arm and squeeze the bulb to see if there were any change in the blood pressure, were like characters from a long-ago book. Even Doctor Desmond and Kathy and Mr. And Mrs. Kirk, who hovered near through the night, seemed unreal. "Joan, you need to go get some rest."" Doctor Desmond had come in again, and she felt his hand on her shoulder, gentle and warm. She felt like reaching up and putting her hand on top of his, but she didn't. She just stood up and, feelin & herself Close to ried 0 tears, hurut into the hal]. S Joan Walked alon Way to her "Well room, David came towards her, "yj; » hot for awhile." agreed. "yo 1 Iss Morgan, how's Joey? Any change?" "No » NO change." I "You look tired." I 6é i oe. "T mean I don't Want to g0 am. Will you report for me? Home, ever," Tel] them I'll be on duty in a Couple of hours 4 O that alone? Tell me that, Miss Morgan, How; 0) anything alone?" "Tom, Seems rea] 00d to me too." take first th; "You can es therapy. Pll come for you at two be £0ing home pretty 1 Soon, now." "No." OCTOBER 1965 Doctor Desmond had entered the room. "Good morning, Tom." Joan stood up, and without thinking, she asked, ''How's Joey?" "He's he's just the same." His voice said the words, but there was a warning look about his eyes, and suddenly she knew why. She had broken the most elementary rule in the book. She had discussed a patient in front of another patient. "Joey Kirk?" Tom asked, and Joan went sick all over. She had forgotten that Tom was Kirk's neighbor. "Yes. Joey had a little -accident. But he will be all right." Doctor Desmond looked at Joan, then back to Tom. "How's that studying coming along?" "Pretty good. What happened to Joey? Is he hurt bad?" "Yes, Tom. He's hurt pretty bad...."' The doctor's voice was steady, but Joan could feel his anger. She wished she could disappear into the woodwork. "Miss Morgan, is he going to be all right? How did he get hurt?" "He he fell off a horse," Joan told him, "but he " and she tried to tell him that Joey would be all right, but she couldn't. "'He's not going to be all right, is he?" Tom looked from Joan to the doctor and back again. "Is he?" he shouted. "Tom, you mustn't get so upset." Joan got up and went to the boy. She put her hand on his arm. 772 "But you've got to tell me." "We don't know yet," Doctor Desmond told him. "It will take a little while to find out." "T heard the siren last night, and I wondered who it was." Tom turned to the wall. "Little Joey. He was Richard's best friend. They were always together." "And they will be again," Doctor Desmond told him. Tom didn't answer. "I'll be back at two, Tom," Joan said, and turned to go. Doctor Desmond went with her. "I'm sorry," Joan said when they were out in the hall. "Don't worry about it what's done is done." "Ts Richard Tom's little brother?" ""Veas,"' They walked a little way before Doctor Desmond said he hoped that knowing about Joey wouldn't undo all the good she'd done with Tom. "I don't think it will," she told him. "In fact, it might make him want to go home. He might feel the need to be there with his little brother and sisters." Doctor Desmond didn't say anything for a while, then he turned and smiled at her. "'I dare not disagree with you anymore, you've been so right about Tom so far." They stopped walking and faced each other, and for just a moment Joan thought he was going to say something, but the call from the emergency room for Doctor Desmond, sent them both hurrying to the first floor.