[Vol52 | October 1965 | Page 733 | Special Feature | My Happiest Year | Vanta Quintero]
[PHOTOGRAPH]

My Happiest Year

Vanta Quintero

Talk given by Vanta Quintero at special Placement Program meeting held Thursday, May 6, 1965, at Provo, Utah.

"The-la na go tha woo, she wont de tha she sh lah go show go th." I just said in my native Apache tongue "This year is my happiest. I am very, very happy, for in two weeks I will graduate from Provo High School." I have been in the Latter-day Saint Indian Placement Program for five years.

I first came to Utah to start school in the 7th grade. My new foster parents, Brother Lloyd Bird and Sister Marge Bird, drove from Springville to Provo to pick me up. I was so afraid of white people that I lost my voice and couldn't even talk to my foster parents. I believe the reason I was so afraid was because at home our houses are very simple—the furniture is older and inexpensive. Up here the homes seem so elaborate, with lovely furniture, delicate figurines, and so many expensive things that could be so easily broken.

On the reservation, the standards and restrictions are different. We are able to run around like "a bunch of wild Indians." Here, in our homes with white people, we are expected to conduct ourselves politely and with

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Vanta (right center) visits with her own family—the John Quinteros of Ft. Apache, Arizona and the Bishop John Martins of Provo, Utah.

OCTOBER 1965

restraint, and check with our foster parents before we do anything. Also, at home, I lived in a small community where I had always known everyone. There were very few white people with whom I was not well acquainted. Then, all of a sudden, I must learn to live with all the white people. It was very terrifying to me.

The minute I got to the Bird's home and was shown my new room, I closed the door and wrote a tearful letter to my own parents telling them to come and get me. That was the beginning of the tears, but they went on and on, and when I would start to cry hardest, I would run to the piano and play "Mary Had a Little Lamb." My foster mother got so tired of the same piece that she taught me how to play "Chopsticks" and "Peter, Peter, Pumpkin Eater."

I cried for two weeks until my parents came and took me back home. My foster parents were so good to me and tried everything to make me feel welcome, but after two miserable weeks, my own parents came all the way from Ft. Apache (over 600 miles) and took me back.

I had only been home a short time when I realized my mistake and determined to come back to Utah the next year, which I did. It was so hard because I was so shy, but the Birds helped me and I had so many good friends that I was not only able to last the year out, I even learned to enjoy it. I lived with the Birds for two years, and then Sister Bird had to help with the care of her aging mother and it was necessary for the caseworker to find me a new home. When I learned

I was to go to a new home, I felt panic-stricken. It was almost like starting all over again.

When I first met Bishop Martin, his wife Dona, and their family of four children, Kathy, Mel, Kristy, and Kerry, I lost my voice again and could hardly force out a weak "Hello." Dona told me later it was the first time she had ever seen an Indian turn pale. This didn't seem to bother the Martin family. They bundled me into the car, and the children all spoke to sit next to me. The two little ones won out. On the way home, they pointed out all the points of interest to me. Little Kerry even gave me a few quick kisses on the cheek. It did not take long for me to feel at home.

The first year I lived with the Martins, my foster mother Dona, and I were so careful with each other's feelings that we never even had a cross word between us.

The next year we went for about three months, still being so careful to avoid any trouble. Then I don't know what happened, but one day we both had it out. I told her what I thought, and then she told me what she thought. I decided then I had better "shape up."

We were both surprised to find that I had never seemed more like a member of the family, and, right then, we decided to talk things out and get our feelings out into the open. Sometimes I have had some dark days and lots of misunderstandings, but I have found that taking the time to talk them over with my foster parents has made them all work out. I think this is the secret of

734
