[Vol52 | October 1965 | Page 788 | Lesson | Social Science — Priesthood in the Life of Every Latter-day Saint Woman Alberta | H. Christensen]

SOCIAL SCIENCE—Teaching the Gospel in the Home

Alberta H. Christensen

Lesson 1 (No. 13 in Series)
Priesthood in the Life of Every Latter-day Saint Woman

For Third Meeting, January 1966

Objective: To show how the Latter-day Saint woman shares
in the blessings of the Priesthood.

INTRODUCTION TO 1966 LESSONS

In January 1965 the "Teaching the Gospel in the Home" lessons were introduced as a course of study designed to correlate with lessons being studied by Melchizedek Priesthood quorums. Lesson 1 also stated that the lessons supported the Home Teaching Program of the Church. It was felt that through this course and this correlation, the Latter-day Saint woman would understand more clearly her role as wife and mother and would be encouraged to support her husband in his spiritual leadership of the family.

It was hoped that through this correlation of lessons, the roles of the father and the mother would be more clearly understood; that parents would work unitedly in teaching the principles of the gospel to their children and would strive earnestly to bring a fulness of the gospel into their home.

An understanding of the roles of father and of mother requires a consideration of the various relationships of the family—husband to wife, parents to children, children to children. Some obligations of each member of the family, and of the family as a unit to the Church and to the community were discussed in the lessons.

The social science lessons for 1966 will continue to correlate with those being studied by the Melchizedek Priesthood quorums. They will represent, in general, the woman's position in relation to some of the subjects with which they correlate.

Relief Society sisters will be in an advantageous position in the first lesson, which deals with the Priesthood, having recently completed a well-prepared and well-written course on the nature and function of Priesthood as an instrument for Church government. They are, therefore, generally familiar with the operation of Priesthood as the "power of God delegated to man by which man can act in the earth for the salvation of the human family, in the name of the Father and the

788

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Son and the Holy Ghost, and act legitimately" (WHITSOE, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, page 33).

They are familiar with the statement that "the Church itself is a product of Priesthood" and the means through which the Eternal Father accomplishes his divine purposes.

LESSON FOLLOW-UP

Invite several members of the class to report on their efforts to make their 1965 observation of Christmas more meaningful and in keeping with its purpose, as suggested in the December lesson.

THIS LESSON

Since the first unit of Priesthood quorum lessons deals with the subject of Priesthood, this lesson will likewise deal with some phases of this great power. It will be, of necessity, largely doctrinal, and will consider

1. Priesthood as an eternal blessing to all of God's children.
2. The specific blessings of Priesthood in which a woman may share.

PRIESTHOOD AN ETERNAL BLESSING TO ALL

President Brigham Young had this to say about the Priesthood of the Son of God:

... it is the law by which the worlds are, were, and will continue for ever and ever. It is that system which brings worlds into existence and peoples them, gives them their revolutions—their days, weeks, months, years, their seasons and times and by which they are rolled up as a scroll, as it were, and go into a higher state of existence (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 130).

The power of all truth dwells in the bosom of our Father and God, which he dispenses to his children as he will, by the means of his eternal Priesthood. He is enthroned in the light, glory and power of truth. ... The Gospel and the Priesthood are the means he employs to save and exalt his obedient children to the possession with him of the same glory and power to be crowned with crowns of glory, immortality and eternal lives (Ibid., page 5).

It is impossible for us to comprehend the full significance of the foregoing quotations. It is clearly evident, however, that all who live upon the earth, female as well as male, are beneficiaries of the blessings of the Priesthood.

Men have no greater claim than women upon the blessings that issue from the Priesthood and accompany its possession. Woman does not hold the Priesthood, but she is a partaker of the blessings of the Priesthood. That is, the man holds the Priesthood, performs the priestly duties of the Church, but his wife enjoys with him every other privilege derived from the possession of the Priesthood (WHITSOE, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, page 83).

It is evident that a woman is blessed by this great, eternal power because she is a daughter of God. The following scripture, moreover, among others, indicates that the blessings do not apply to this world only. She always has been a recipient of these blessings and, if obedient to the gospel teaching, will be blessed through the power of the Priesthood throughout eternity.

"Now this same Priesthood, which was in the beginning, shall be in the end of the world also" (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 6:7).

SPECIFIC BLESSINGS IN MORTALITY

What are the specific blessings of Priesthood which may come to

789

OCTOBER 1965

a daughter of God through ordinances performed by a bearer of the Priesthood who is delegated to act with authority? What are the occasions which bring into focus these specific blessings?

1. Blessing as an infant.
2. Baptism and confirmation.
3. Receiving a patriarchal blessing.
4. Administration by Priesthood in times of illness.
5. Other special blessings.
6. Personal endowment.
7. Celestial marriage.
8. Opportunity to perform vicarious temple work for the dead.
9. Set apart by Priesthood when giving specific callings in the Church.

From the above listed blessings we see that from infancy to the end of earth-life and into eternity, a Latter-day Saint girl-child is a recipient of numerous and specific blessings through the Priesthood of God.

As an infant she may receive a father's blessing and a name by which she will be known among her associates. This ordinance is performed by authority of the Priesthood. Her baptism and confirmation with the bestowal of the Holy Ghost admit her into the Church. These blessings are special blessings, received only through the delegated power of the Priesthood.

As her father and brothers who bear the Priesthood, she, too, may be given a patriarchal blessing which may be a guide, inspiration, and comfort to her throughout her life. She may receive the administration of the Priesthood in times of illness or on other occasions, when the sustaining influence and help of the Lord through the authority of the Priesthood are especially needed.

She may realize how her own abilities are augmented as a result of her faith in the Priesthood, when a blessing is given her if she is set apart for some specific calling in the Church.

The opportunity of entering the House of the Lord in receiving her own endowments and the opportunity of the sacred ceremony of celestial marriage are two of the greatest of God's blessings to her. By the side of the companion of her choice, the Latter-day Saint woman may experience the culminating Priesthood ordinance in this life, the efficacy of these ordinances being dependent upon faithfulness.

BLESSINGS AVAILABLE

The home where husband or father holds and honors the Priesthood, is greatly blessed. All family relationships are influenced for good, all problems tempered where parents seek the help and guidance to which the Priesthood entitles them.

For those women whose husbands have not as yet embraced the gospel truth, there are still blessings derived from Priesthood which are available to them, such as baptism, confirmation, the patriarchal, and other special blessings. Upon them perhaps rests a greater responsibility—to rear their children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord as this opportunity is available to them. They may also enjoy the counsel of their Home Teachers and of their bishops who have been commissioned to use their Priesthood for the benefit and blessing of members of the ward.

790
