I OUGHT TO KNOW. Annie D. Palmer. I ought to know the Heavenly Father's will. To understand salvation's wondrous plan: His written word a thousand doubts may still, A thousand precious truths reveal to man. If I would know. I need but study well The way of light and life the scriptures tell. I ought to know my faith's most vital creed, With prophets heaven-inspired the law to teach: I ought to know and carefully to heed Each sacred ordinance within my reach. The fault prophets is mine live should who know the Lord's command. I not understand. I ought to know what God would have me do  The Holy Spirit is by right my guide: And in the darkest doubt I struggle through. It cannot fail while prayer and faith abide. If so I heed its promptings as I go, By that small voice 1 surely ought to know. Should I then fail to do what is my best. The plea of ignorance will not avail. Shall I be crowned among the loved and blessed. Who slothfully my right of power curtail? The fault is mine, should I not understand. For truth awaits my grasp on even.- hand. 
 Conservation as Practiced by the Women of the Relief Society. While it is true that any organization or institution may accomplish marvelous results, such achievements will be the actual work of individuals who compose that body. We are hearing a great deal now about conservation  that word which spells closer economies, more rigid activity, and a keener application of preservative measures for home and national honor; so that it will be interesting to the readers of the Magazine to recall in some detail the labors in conservation undertaken and carried to successful issue by individual women on farms, in the wilderness, and in the confine s of the crowded city centers; as well as those greater endeavors of ward and stake Relief Societies,  not only such labors as have been called forth by the war, but those long carried on by this Society and its individual members in building homes and towns, beautifying them, and in conserving all the resources granted us by a beneficent heavenly Provider. The public press is full of glowing reports from this and that official concerning what Utah has done for this great war charity, and in that fine conservation movement. But we fail to find any credit given to the Relief Society through whose splendid and complete machinery of organized human effort, much of this war work has been undertaken. Men have subscribed money for the Liberty Loan, and our sons have enlisted and have entered the army at our country's call. We are glad to recognize and honor all these public-spirited men in their place and calling; so have most of the women of the state answered the call of the Red Cross and the State Food Conservation committee. But let us sift the facts somewhat. It is said by the best women's club authority that the club membership in the state amounts to about 3,000 women. Most of these, nearly all, are located in Salt Lake City 
 and Ogden, with a few in Logan and Provo, and a sprinkling in smaller towns. Their state organization is necessarily imperfect and weak. The Relief Society, whose organization is so complete and unified that it excites the admiration and wonder of all who know anything about it, numbers close to 44,000; 26,000 in this state, with 18,000 scattered through every western state and territory, reaching into Europe, Mexico and Canada. It is these women who have been called upon by Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams, chairman of our own War Relief committee, and appointed by Washington authority as chairman of the Utah Defense Council, and by Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, chairman of our own Home Science and Conservation committee, and appointed by Dr. E. G. Peterson as chairman of