[Vol2 | August 1915 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Guide Lessons - Art Lesson IX - Cyrus E Dallin]

ART. Lesson IX. Study the life and sculpture of Cyrus E. Dallin (Devotees and Their Shrines, pp. 95-99). (a) Where and by whom was the artist Dallin discovered? (b) Where was his first work exhibited? (c) What studio did he first enter? (d) What work did he accomplish in Boston? (e) What honors did he receive in Paris? (f) What honors came in the Columbian Exposition? (g) From what cities did he receive offers for statuary for public parks? (h) What beautiful sculptures represent his work in Utah? (i) Why are we so proud of Dallin? (j) How does he stand in our State Art, National Art, and International Art? (k) Describe his Angel "Moroni," on the Salt Lake Temple. (l) Describe the Pioneer Monument. (m) Describe the Soldiers and Sailors Monument, at Syracuse, N. Y. (n) Describe one of Dallin's Indian sculptures. (o) His early associations with Indian life no doubt greatly aided him in a successful portrayal of Indian themes. How much of Dallin's fame has come from these Indian subjects? (p) Why was Dallin so persistent in his devotion to his gift? (q) God has also given you a talent ? are you making the most of it? And how are you making the most of it? If you are 
 not making the most of it, why are you not? What could you do to more fully realize yourself? Have you a friend or a little child, who loves to sculp? Name him. (r) What is a talent or gift, and from whence does it come? QUESTIONS TO STIMULATE HOME ART STUDY. Which is better, to teach a gifted child what you know, or discover what he can do? How are you going to discover an artist in your own home circle? Which is better training for a future artist, to lead him to discover a thing of beauty in a picture, or to find something beautiful in Nature? If you ignore a gift of one of your children, to what extent will be his loss? Your loss? The loss of society? What did John Hafen like best to paint? What would you like to paint? Why did not Hafen stop painting when reduced to poverty? Why was he one of the happiest of men in spite of his poverty?