Vol. 34					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1906						No. 7


CONTENTS.
Relief Society Annual Greeting—Bathsheba
	W. Smith...............................................	41
Lecture Given on Mothers' Work—Ella
	Woolf Baxter........................................	42
R.S. Reports.................................................	42
The Sea of Galilee.....................L. D. Alder	43
Passing Thoughts...........................A. W. C.	46
In Memoriam...............................................	46
Obituary.......................................................	46
Relief Society Reports.................................	47
EDITORIAL:—Correction—Notice to Stake Sec-
	retaries—The Holiday Season—A
	A Hundred Years of Progress..............	44
	Editorial Notes....................................	46
POETRY:—To Our Remaining Veterans..L.
	L. Green Richards...............................	41
	Christmas Bells...................G. I. Frost	43
	No Farewell.................Lydia D. Alder	43
	Some Day........................Ledia Marler	43
	Oregon Mine.................Maud Bagerly	43


TO OUR REMAINING VETERANS.

Ye aged, honored Saints who knew
	The Prophet Joseph Smith in life;
Who with the Church are proving true,
	’Mid all the hardships, toils and strife
It has passed and is passing through,
	Dear faithful ones, I reverence you!

You listened to his voice, its tone.
	When he proclaimed the things of God;
Your feet have touched the turf, the stone,
	Whereon the Prophet’s feet have trod;
The warm clasp of his hand you've known,
	Your eyes have looked into his own,

What writer now can catch the glow
	That inspiration’s fire must lend,
And cause with eloquence to flow
	Such living words as have been penned,
By those who did the Prophet know—
	Phelps, Taylor, Pratt and E. R. Snow?

I deem it yet a privilege grand,
	A blessing which I value much,
That I may sometimes clasp a hand,
	That knew the Prophet’s kind true touch;
And more that I can understand
	The truth he taught by God’s command.

Ye veterans speak, where’er ye may,
	And testify of Joseph still;
The clouds of unbelief, today,
	Which shroud the earth, ’tis Satan’s will
Should blind, and lead our youth astray—
	God save them—roll the mists away!

God make the youth of Zion strong!
	Ye veterans, help us pray this prayer;
That they may triumph over wrong,
	And by their lives the truth declare;
The clouds are dense, the way seems long,
	Where Satan and his servants throng.

Yet God is powerful today,
	As when His youthful Prophet rose,
And dared His mandates to obey,
	And by His death o’ercame his foes.
O Lord, Thy power and love display,
	And turn the flood of doubt away!

God bless the man and woman too,
	With silvered hair and furr wed cheek,
Who lived at Kirtland or Nauvoo—
	And all who hearken while they speak,
And testify they saw and knew,
	That Joseph was a Prophet true!
				L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.
Dec. 1905.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GREETING.

PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH ADDRESS-
	ES ASSOCIATE WORKERS IN ALL
			THE WORLD.

List to the sound—that rolling chime,
Hark! ’tis the busy knell of Time;
The year has gone,
And borne along the hopes and fears,
The smiles and tears of multitudes unknown to
	song. 
					E. R. SNOW.
	The closing year of 1905, which is the
hundredth birthday of the Prophet stirs
my mind with a multitude of thoughts.
	In fancy I go back to my childhood and
youth in Virginia—Elders come crying,
“Repent and be baptized for the king-
dom of heaven is at hand,” and, as of 
yore, I am stirred with the glad tidings of
the restoration of the Gospel of Christ;
once again I gather with the Saints in 
Missouri, and hear the horrid yells of the
mobbers as Joseph and Hyrum are cap-
tured by them. I see the wounded and
dying; I am driven from Missouri, but
meet with joy at Quincy, in a conference
of the Church, Joseph and Hyrum, and
the Apostles, who are there called to
to labor in Europe.
	The Prophet I recall and his wondrous
spiritual power, intelligence loving kind-
ness, and great goodn[-]ss of heart! His
sermons, sayings, the organization of our
own Relief Society in 1842. His revela-
tions, persecutions, martyrdom and the
grief of the Saints thereat. There is
little left save our homes and families in
this world, but the Gospel becomes even
more to me: now follows the burning of
our homes and the forced exodus from
Nauvoo in the dead of winter. The ele-
ments rage upon and about us, but we
are able to endure, to rest at last, though
in the shadow of death, as it were, for 
here we part with a multitude of our
loved ones. But, rising from our weak-
ness, in obedience to the servants of the
Most High, we proceed, crossing trackless
plains, fording swollen streams, scaling
rugged mountain heights, and descending
into “The Valley,” to find rest from per-
secution and comfort in the desert.
	All the events of those trying years
unite today, revealing to me in the even-
ing of life, the overshadowing importance
of the plan of salvation. A comforting
message from the Giver of all good seems
to give me this sweet assurance that 
nought that was suffered and nought that
was accomplished, no matter how dear
the price, was without avail; yea, our
wounds were seared over with wisdom,
pain gave birth to patience, and our mar-
tyred Saints rose, peradventure, our best
petitioners in the courts above.
	And I am convinced that it were bet-
ter to be faithful and enduring to the end
showing worthiness in overmastering self
and upholding the standard of truth, than
to rest in apathy and ease, forgetful of 
God and unmindful of the weak, the 
weary and desolate.

[Column 2]
	It is good to reflect on the past, but
beyond and above its shades of sorrow,
and errors, our duty ever rises before
us.

	Soothe the sad, succor the oppressed,
	Visit the widow and the fatherless.

	To go from house to house, seeking out 
the poor, the cast down, minister to the
sick, lay out the dead, gathering and dis-
tributing, as you ha[-]e done, my sisters,
for so many years, gifts and donations for
relief. 
	And yet we have a larger mission—to
teach the mother to rear her young in
simplicity and in truth and virtue, that
happy home circles may abound in our
midst.
	And yet we have still a greater mission.
We faint not in our efforts to teach 
others but display a great lack of true re-
ligion, when our own faults remain un-
mended. When will we learn that the 
beam is in our own eye and the mote only
disturbs the vision of our neighbor. 
	We are called upon by the still small
voice, a whispering from our Father, to 
work out our own salvation.
	Briefly the constructive parts of the
plan of salvation are these: What man
is, God once was, what God is now, man
may be; the glory of God is intelligence.
Nothing can be annihilated and no act
lost. It is impossible to be saved in ig-
norance. The Spirit of God, which is 
the Holy Ghost and the comforter, sur-
rounds us and pervades the universe, and
is the medium by which we may receive
the inspiration of God toward intelligence
and through which it is our right to re-
ceive comfort; and finally that Faith
Hope and Charity are necessary for 
Divine Grace but that the greatest of these
is charity!
	Therefore it is plainly necessary that
women as well as men, cease not while
life lasts to study diligently, for the know-
ledge which is of greatest worth. To me
the best step towards this is for us to 
throw off the cu se of drudgery by learn-
ing to do our work so well, that we will
love to do it and have cause for rejoicing
over the achievements of our hands.
	Let us learn of the handiwork of God
by the study of nature, search out her
flowers, her moods, her laws. Let us 
study to improve our thoughts, reaching
up toward our Heavenly Father, praying
for the inspiration of the Holy Ghost.
	Let us improve our language in our
homes and among our children that our
words be not idle complaining nor vain,
but as nothing can be lost, cheerful, hope-
ful, intelligent, reflecting a charitable
spirit.
	Let us open the books of life and sal-
vation, and study also the great authors
poets and painters, that our minds may
be clothed with intelligence and our
hearts abound with human feeling.
	And here I am inclined to offer a 
thought for the year’s work before us.
With our multifarious duties we may not
be able to call upon some aged or invalid


sister, to cheer her, but we may lend her
a book to read at pleasure, and peradven-
ture to the strengthening of her purpose,
the cheering of her life and the edification
of her mind. Likewise after reading a
good book, pass it to a sister saying I
commend this book to you. It has in-
structed me and may edify you, and when
you have read, return, that I may lend
again.
	Another thought: Having done your
part well be satisfied to relinquish the
load to some stronger woman when you
become weary.
	And now my sisters, God's choicest
blessings be upon you, and peace be with
you.
		      BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
   President of the Church Relief Society
in all the World.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LECTURE GIVEN ON MOTHER’S WORK.
	HYRUM STAKE CONFERENCE.

	The law of chastity should be observed
and we as parents are commanded to keep
our bodies undefiled and pure.
	Every wise and loving parent should de-
sire to bestow on their offspring whole-
ness and soundness in every part. No
one would think of conducting a common
primary school without an order of exer-
cises, and such a program of studies as
shall by progressive steps cover the whole
ground desired within the allotted time.
If the class or school was left to chance
or to the impulse of the moment it is pret-
ty certain much would be overlooked and
neglected, and much done out of place to
little purpose.
	It is important, then, that our habits
and traits and impulses should be such as
will bless and not curse our offspring, im-
portant to have all these sources of influ-
ences wholly on the side of nobleness
virtue and beauty of character in all re-
spects. To this end does it not behoove
every one who aspires to the God-like
honor of begetting a being in his or her
own likeness to first enter in thorough
and earnest upon the work of self-
improvement, self-discipline and moral
and spiritual purification? Can any
stronger motive of self-improvement be
presented to a conscientious person than
this consideration affords? We cannot
start too early in life to begin this work.
	Every child has rights which are as
sacred as those of any other being, and
among these is the right to be well-born.
This hardly need be said, except for the
thoughtlessness that often exists on the
subject, of the forming and nurturing a
young immortal being that is to enjoy or
suffer throughout its existence, and that
is to bless or curse its fellows on earth,
through unknown generations, according
to the characteristics stamped on it by
its parents.
	Parents should realize the responsibili-
ty involving upon them, and should act
with intelligent forethought and should
make the best preparation in themselves
and their surroundings.
	In the past so little regard has been
paid to the finer laws of adaptation, tem-
poral and spiritual, and so seldom has the
sacred right of the mother been delicate-
ly respected.

[Column 2]
	A child’s birthright includes a full lov-
ing welcome to the world; without this,
what a pitiable object is a child!
	There is aid at hand to help us if we
successfully seek and apply the agencies
within our reach. We must cease to use 
our stomachs and digestive powers for 
hot bread, pastry, greasy food and highly
spiced dishes. We must abstain from
narcotic and alcholic beverages, which
under the guise of stimulating only weak-
en and lower the tone of the nervous
system, creating a demand for more and 
more of the same deceptive stimulus un-
til the unfortunate victim comes to im-
agine them necessaries of life.
	We must have our homes and apart-
ments well ventilated, and we should con-
tent ourselves with the simple, nutritious,
healthy food, chiefly from the vegetable
kingdom, including cereals, fruits and
nuts which experience shows most con-
ducive to bodily soundness, mental vigor
and moral purity.

	Thought and feeling should also be pure
and elevating, there are reasons for be-
lieving that many physical and moral dis-
eases have their origin in impure
thoughts and evil passions. It is well known
that good-will, and generous affections
tend to promote health of body and 
mind, It may take several generations of
careful training and study on our part to
rid ourselves of the incorrect ideas and
practices that we have inherited, but
there should be a steady upward march.
Each generation should be an improve-
ment on its predecessor; we have been
called of God to gather out from Baby-
lon, and one of the main objects being
that we may be a purer and more perfect
people.
	There are things we should teach our
children from the heart, and which should
be accompanied by the spirit and power
of God, they are purity of thought and
life, correct habits and everything that
furnishes the child with a good, solid,
moral endowment. The work of per-
fecting ourselves may be delayed through
our not using the agencies at hand, but it
must be pushed forward if we would be
the people the Lord designed us to be.
The work is before us, and we may as
well apply ourselves with intelligence and
zeal. It is our highest duty as parents to
give our children our best thought and
attention, for the Lord has given them
as a precious trust, and if we allow them
to go astray through our neglect the con-
sequence will be serious. The personal
companionship of parents is of exceeding
value to our boys and girls, they should
have in their mother a friend, a playmate
and a companion, and should be on
the most intimate terms, so there will be
no concealment on the part of the child
in thought or action. Young people lack
experience, they are exposed to many
evils and fall frequently into many snares
which if their parents understood they
would be able to guard them against.
	Cleanliness is a part of our religion, we
are told that the Spirit of God will not 
dwell in an unclean tabernacle; this ap-
plies to the outside as well as the inside.
Many little children do not regard it as
any great pleasure, washing or being 
washed, but their pride should be ap-
pealed to, they should be made ashamed

[Column 3]
of a dirty face, then there will be no
trouble to have them keep clean. Let 
the sunshine stream in our houses, health
is more consequence than carpets; par-
rents should set the example in all these
matters, and the children will grow up in
an atmosphere of purity and cleanliness
and they will learn to shun everything
unclean and impure, and will take pleas-
ure in observing the laws of health with
the greatest care.
	In fact, to be pure in the sight of the
Lord great self denial is required through
life. The body and its appetites and de-
sires must be brought in subjection to the
spirit. If we could impress on our chil-
dren’s minds the wrong and injurious
effects of tea, coffee, tobacco and intox-
icating drinks and keep them from touch-
ing them, so they would not know the
taste of these articles while they are
growing, when they are grown they would
not crave them, and children brought up
free from the taste would not need to 
practice self-denial in this direction, but
would practice self-control instead, so as
not to taste them.
	Mothers too frequently let their little
children sip the tea and sometimes a little
beer that they themselves have been
drinking, and they think it is very innocent,
they do not think that by doing this they
are creating in their children the taste for
these beverages which may prove a 
plague to them through the rest of their 
lives. Teach them the importance of ab-
staining entirely from these things, and
have them understand the counsel which
the Lord Himself has given respecting 
them.
	Duty is always preferable to indulgence.
			ELLA WOOLF BAXTER.


R. S. REPORT.
	ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the
St. Joseph Stake convened at Thatcher,
Dec. 1, 1905, president Elizabeth Layton
presiding. There were nine members of
the Relief Society Stake Board present,
the three Stake Presidency, and other
leading brethren of the Stake. We have
fourteen branches of the Society in the
Stake, but owing to the long distance re-
cent storms and high water, the eight
outlying small wards were not represent-
ed, yet our attendance was very good.
At the close of the morning meeting, we
retired to a building near by where the
Thatcher Society had lunch prepared for
all. The statistical and financial reports
were received from all the branches in
the Stake, and our yearly report was read
which shows an increase in membership,
also in the average attendance, The
main subjects spoken on were, punctuality
order in our Church assemblies, and the
storing of wheat.
	The last named subject is one that has
caused much discussion, and still we have
not been able to find any plan of keep-
ing our wheat more than two years with-
out handling it, and often then we have
sustained great loss from the weavil. Our
conference was the best ever held in the
Stake. Both meetings were enlivened by
choice vocal and instrumental selections.
	FANNIE W. KIMBALL,
	Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CHRISTMAS BELLS.
BY GRACE INGLES FROST.

Christmas bells are chiming––
	“Peace on earth good will to man,”
Glory to God in the highest,
	And unto the great “I Am,”

Great tho’ so humble His advent,
	Not a place could he find for His head,
Save a manger—the meanest of cradles, 
	Where oftimes the cattle had fed. 

Great, tho’ through life with the lowly He
		walked,
	Scorned, insulted, rejected by men, 
The least in the kingdom of heaven,
	Accounted more worthy by them.

And great, ah, so great! were His teachings.
	That down thro’ the ages they roll,
Bringing joy, peace, long suffering and meek-
		ness
	To those who His doctrine extol.

Ring on Christmas bells!
	Sound your praises?
To Christ and His Father above.
Who gave us poor erring creat[-]res,
	The heavenly message of love.


NO FAREWELL.
BY LYDIA D. ALDRR.

Edith, my love, I bid thee no farewell,
	To go means but to return, some other day,
	The while. through showers and sun, flowers
		bloom more gay,
	The green tints deepen in the leafy dell.

Change now has come,our paths in life must part;
	But winding ever, they will meet again.
	Sometime, somewhere, in pleasure, not in pain
Together they will flow, dear heart, dear heart.

Ere time was measured we, 'mong morning stars
	Sang peans as the world rolled out in space;
	All there were of the royal, princely race,
Yet could we not see clear, through heaven's bars.

To us unknown, the power, the depth of love,
	For contrast had no meaning for us yet—
	We saw the shining world—dost thou forget?—
And deathless stars, like jewels, interwoven.

To go, to tread the outstretched grassy way,
	All else we thought as nothing—glad to leave—
	How could we feel the cross, see things that
		grieve,
	For glamor of the bright, eternal day?

We, o'ver heaven's ramparts peeped, it seemed not 
		far,
	Nor hard for us the dazzling crown to win,
	For in our hearts was never thought of sin—
No shadow there that could the landscape mar.

I held thy hand—for thou wast near to me—
	While gazing on the glorious sphere in sight;
	The way defined, the end a blaze of light
And glory, that again, some day we'll see.

We importuned, and at the last are here,
	Love, now we know has many thorns and tears,
	And disappointments throng the passing years;
And all we prize full oft lies on the bier.

Now, like as Gods, the bitter-sweet we know,
	The corresponding care of every joy;
	Can segregate the gold from base alloy,
And love this life, foreknowledge did bestow.

Then count but gain all things we have to bear;
	If sorrow comes, then it is well to weep;
	If joy, then this remembrance ever keep,
To learn, to know, we left the realms o'er there.

Congenial hearts, are those we knew before;
	'Tis but a veil drawn close before our eyes,
	That all the glory hides of Paradise—
A moment, and we'll dwell there evermore.

A child no longer, as in days of old;
	Celestial home, we prize thee, know thy cost—
	We wandered in the world and were not lost;
Again, O joy! we walk in streets of gold.


SOME DAY
		BY LELIA MARLER. 

The sun at last has dropped behind the moun-
		tains,
	The noisy echoes of the town are stilled,
The tired workers to their homes are going,
	Their weary tasks have been fulfilled.

When hushed the clamor of the busy city, 
	And wrapped in quietude is every mill,
Then venture forth the cricket, bat and night bird,
	With homely melodies the air to fill. 

And as the dreamer at the lattice window, 
	Disheartened with the worries of the day,
Arrays in vivid pictures a bright future, 
	A whisper’s heard, “It will be thine some day.”

“Some day,” ah, yes, the word is full of sweet-
		ness;
	It whispers hope to mortals sore and tried;
We lisp it, and we think of what ’twill bring us;
	’Tis easy then our present griefs to hide.

“Some day!” the word has in it tender pathos,
	Will it bring forth our broken vases filled
With tokens from friends lost now returning?
	Will every broken promise be fulfilled?

Will every tender gift and loving whisper
	Assume again its value, as at first?
Will we some day be given in full measure
	The love for which our hearts are now athirst?

Will we be understood by those around us?
	Will our true motives be unveiled at last?
And will all falseness, doubt and misdirection
	Then to the wild and furious winds be cast?

“Some day!” ah, may it not be too far distant,
	When vaguest hopes shall finally be real.
Our hearts then understood, the past forgiven, 
	A tender sacred kiss to serve as seal.


OREGON MINE.
	BY MAUD BAGGARLEY.

Misty and blue, the firs of Mount Tabor
	The glory of sunset crimsoning the west,
The warm ocean breeze, the sea’s benediction,
	Stirs gently the forest, then lulls it to rest.

Now, the streets of an alien city;
	Mountains bare and high;
The far off gleam of an inland sea,
Instead of the river rushing free;
	And the blue of an alien sky.

Oh, for the sound of the wind in the fir trees;
	The down-sift ng gold of the sun thro’ the pine,
And the dear Willamette dimpling in sunshine,
	Oh, Oregon, Oregon mine!

To the land where Thy people dwell,
	Thy hand of mercy hath led,
Thy will shall be done while life doth last
	But oh, when I am dead
Wilt Thou let me sleep the long, long sleep
	With the friends I loved in youth,
Where the golden hours of childhood fled
	And the world seemed bright with truth?
		When I am dead!


[Column 1]
	THE SEA OF GALILEE
O, Galilee sweet Galilee,
	Where Jesus loved so much to be;
O, Galilee, blue Galilee,
	Come sing your songs again to me.
	An inspiration comes with the sweet
notes of this song, when sung by choir or
congregation, but it is intensified, even
thrilling when they float far away, and
away, over the bosom of that beautiful
sea.
	Think of Galilee, where Jesus taught
the multitude on its shore; where he
called, Peter, Andrew, James and John
the fishermen, who gained a livelihood in
its waters, saying, “follow me, and I will
make you fishers of men.”
	As we sail oyer this sacred sea, visiting

[Column 2]
Capernaum, Bethsaida and Magdala, and
passing the land of the Gergesesenes,
where the swine, possessed of the evil
spirits ran down into the sea, from the
other boats the melody is wafted on the
stilly air.
	O, Galilee, sweet Galilee.
	Where Jesus loved so much to be.
	And those days seem to be here, those
scenes of the present.
	Once, long ago, the apostles were row-
ing across the sea the Savior asleep in the
boat, when suddenly a storm arose and
they, fearing a watery grave, called to
him, “to save or we perish.”
	Wearied he slept heeding neither winds
or waves, but at their call he arose, and
rebuked the storm, saying to the angry
sea, “Peace, be still.”
	A feeling of restfulness and peace, is
there, over Galilee. Though nearly two
thousand years have elapsed since then,
the spirit of peace, seems hovering over
both sea and shore.
	Yes, Galilee was loved by Jesus, and
many mighty works, he performed there.
Peter and his companions thought him a
spirit, when they in the boat saw him
walking out to them on the water, and
Peter, so venturesome, yet having little
faith would have perished, had not Jesus
saved him.
	Often Jesus was weary, with preaching
and teaching, the spirit of man was so un-
responsive to his own, that it weighed
heavily upon him, or he grieved for their
weakness, or yearned over them as they
followed him, that he sailed away from
them, to find the rest, that he so much
required.
	O, Galilee, blue Galilee,
	Come sing your songs again to me.
	The first sight one catches of Galilee, is
so beautiful! The water is a peculiar
shade of light blue, the bluest ever seen.
On descending the hills to Tiberias, the
paint on hotels and houses is of the same
color. No wonder the song extols, “Blue
Galilee,” but sailing on its shining bosom
lo, the water is green, green as can be!
	Come sing your songs again to me.
	Yes, sing your songs, they are melod-
ious as no other songs can be, for no
others, were ever like unto them. The
pebbly shore, the cloud flecked sky, the
dreamy hills, all sing of Jesus, who loved
to be here, so much.
	Here he returned after his resurrection
visiting once again beloved Galilee.
Where are the hosts, who once lived
round about? Where the fishermen with
heavy nets of fish? Gone, all are gone.
Not a voice is heard, not a form to be
seen.
	Scarcely a sound comes even from
Tiberias, with its synagogues and mosques,
whose noonday call to prayer, only sounds
as a babble. Deserted, a mist rising be-
tween the sea and shore, this is Galilee.
	The actors in its past, visit the sea no
more, the heavens have received them,
and in the earth are hidden, the glories
of Christ’s day. But a restoration day
and a resurrection day, await this beloved
spot of Christ’s earthly ministry.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts  No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		JANUARY, 1906


CORRECTION.
	In the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, November
number, 1905, in the article republished
from the Jubilee report given March 17,
1892, we find an error which we feel 
should be corrected. The paragraph al-
luded to reads thus:
	“President Smith stated that the meet-
ing was called for the purpose of making
more complete the organization of the 
Church by organizing the women in the 
order of the Priesthood.” We find by 
comparing it with the original record no 
such statement was made.
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, President,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary.


NOTICE TO STAKE SECRETARIES.
	The Stake secretaries of the Relief
Society are reminded that the yearly re-
ports are to be made for the year 1905,
from January 1, to December 31, and it
will be a good thing to give notice to all
the branches in the respective stakes so
that there may be a full and complete
record, noting all the changes in officers,
new branches organized, condition of
grain stored as well as the amount on
hand; number of buildings in the stake,
owned by the Society, etc. Address
General Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Templeton Building, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


[Column 1]
		THE HOLIDAY SEASON.
	The holiday weeks are to most people of
mature years, a time of thoughtfulness, if
the festivities of the season give them
time to think, although some people have
have had to accustom themselves to think-
ing in a crowd. But seriously speaking,
reminiscences of other days, and other
associations, will come up, staring at one
as it were and shutting out the present
view, filling it with pictures long since
hidden away. One might well exclaim
with Byron, when one is in the midst of
a festive scene—“What business have
they there at such a time?”
	We see not the things around us, but
the old friends, the old scenes in which
we were wont to mingle, and we recall
vividly the familiar faces and the voices
of dear ones.

	“I call to mind, but cannot find,
		The friends I loved so well.
	Where have ye fled, ye vanished?
		I ask, ye do not tell.”

[Column 2]
	Heber C. Kimball used to say holidays
were “hollow days,” and it is in many 
instances too true.
	We think of the departed, who were
once with us; our beloved associates,
whose faces we see no more except in
dreams, and yet they have left their im-
press upon us, and the work in which we
who are here are still engaged. How
many familiar names come to our re-
membrance. Sometimes we wonder what
they would think if they were with us
now, times have so changed; the things
we formerly were in the habit of doing
are not done in this day of invention and
ingenuity, machinery and electricity. In
view of this we ought to have more lei-
sure, but it is not so; the busy housewife
of today is even more hurried than of
yore, when she made her own soap and
candles and sewed by hand; and carded,
spun and wove, and cooked over the fire
without a range, or even a stove.  Now
in even ordinary homes there is a range,
a sewing machine, much of the clothing
is bought ready-made; there are washing
machines, bread mixers, electric flat irons,
electric lights, etc., etc., and yet we are
not satisfied, and complain there is no
time to be polite, to be sociable. We
live in a whirl, as it were, many of us in a
constant excitement, that is neither good
for the soul or the body, nor for the chil-
dren, born or unborn. And yet we would
not like to go back to primitive methods.
We call these days progressive, and it is
true in the sense of science, invention
and new methods; and perhaps if people
could adjust themselves to all these won-
derful improvements, and take a little
time to reflect and bring themselves into
harmony with the new-fangled customs,
and appurtenances, it might tend to a
higher state of civilization, and even ac-
tual enjoyment of the good gifts vouch-
safed to us from a divine Father.
	Children especially are simply crammed
not only with sweetmeats and toys, etc.,
but the schools are cramming them with
book learning; and ambitious parents and
teachers and the world at large look on
and applaud, and prizes are offered for
competition, to stimulate the already
overworked brain of the growing child. 
Perhaps it is a blessing that a respite
comes at Christmas time, if it was in
reality a rest, but in most cases, although
it is a change from regular duties, it is
even more strenuous than the daily occu-
pations: parties, theatres, operas, games
outdoors and in, late hours less sleep
and such, an abundance of feasting and
festivity in which children are sometimes
made the chief participants. These are
some of the things that would appal our
forefathers and mothers of a century ago.
The question “Whither are we drifting?”
might be asked at the present time.
	It is true we have more advantages
than heretofore; we can travel hither and
yon, and life under such favorable con-
ditions ought to be a splendid success to
mankind in general; but there are more
failures than formerly; the homes full of
plenty do not suffice, and when the home
is wrecked, all is lost comparatively
speaking.
	One really can say this is an age of ac-
tivity in many directions; men are build-
ing great monumental structures, so high
and so heavy are many of the buildings,
etc., that if the earth were a thin crust,

[Column 3]
as some of the ancients imagined, they
would break through. But joking aside,
the stupendous works of men in recent
years demand the admiration of the
world, the great naval ships, propelled
by steam, and ships of commerce and
travel, the tremendous bridges, archways,
canals and highways, that require talent
of no ordinary kind to construct; the
great railways, through wildernesses and
mountain passes are marvels in workman-
ship.
	What would the primitive peoples who
fed their flocks on the plains of Judea,
think of these wonders. And yet we are
told the Great Pyramids of Egypt surpass
any modern structure with all our boast-
ing. And when we talk of higher civiliz-
ation, of excellence in literature and arts
and crafts, we are referred to Greece and
Rome, and are told that even now the
works of Homer and Horace surpass
anything of modern date; and that De-
mosthenes and Cicero were greater than
any orators since that period; but of all
the great structures only the Pyramids
stand as silent witnesses, though doubt-
less many wonderful monuments of great-
ness lie buried in the bowels of the earth,
that fires or wars could not altogether
destroy. So after all, notwithstanding
the boast of the nineteenth century, men
are not wholly prepared to compare the
works of their hands with those of other
periods. The magnificence of Solomon’s
Temple was perhaps greater and more
sublime than St. Peter’s or any of more
modern date, but now-a-days monetary
craze would hardly admit of so much
gold, silver and precious stones being
used for building a House to the Name of
the Lord, even in which to worship Him
who created all things in heaven and 
in earth. 
	The New Year has dawned and signifi-
cantly prosperous for the people on this
western hemisphere at least, and for the
Latter-day Saints most auspiciously. In
the midst of plenty, increasing in numbers
and spreading abroad in the land, build-
ing up waste places and improving in
many ways, advancing towards that time
when closer bonds of brotherhood shall
unite all interests temporal as well as 
spiritual. With such bright prospects
great advancement ought to be made this
present year. All the good resolutions
made in the early days of this present 
month should find fulfillment, and even
more achieved than one dared to expect.
Let us believe in the accomplishment of
every righteous ambition. With faith in
God and the utmost energy and activity, 
what can hinder the progress towards 
higher and better things. Will and de-
termination on the part of individuals is
in itself uplifting, “Never give up,” is a
good motto for us all. Adversity is good
discipline; many of our people have found
this to be true, but whether sorrows or
joys come to the saints, they should not
despond, knowing as they do that the re-
ligion they have embraced is true, and
God is at the helm, though the world
frown and look down upon this people,
yet the knowledge of the truth should 
hold them firm to the ship Zion, that
though tossed upon high waves, or stand-
ing still in a calm sea, will ride triumph-
ant over all and land its precious cargo in
a safe harbor. At present everything
points to a brilliant future for this pecu-


liar people, whom the Lord has called to
bring about his divine purposes. The
prophecies of ancient and modern proph-
ets are being fulfilled, and in this the Lat-
ter-day Saints are having their personal
discipline and experiences, and may look
for greater events than have yet trans-
pired in the history of the world.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A HUNDRED YEARS OF PROGRESS.

		THE BOY PROPHET.
	One hundred years ago, in an obscure
town in the Green Mountain State, Ver-
mont, a baby boy first saw the light of 
day; this babe, as we know now, was
destined to bring about great changes in
the religious world and in the lives and 
fortunes of many peoples; changes for
the betterment of physical conditions as
well as to teach great truths with the 
wisdom not of books, or the learning 
gained from great teachers familiar with
sciences, or from men of higher educa-
tion, but with the understanding quick-
ened by the Holy Spirit that flows from 
the fountain of light, and is like a well-
spring of living water that never fails.
	Unless one accepts this theory it is not
possible to account for the marvelous
works which have been brought to pass
through the power of the Priesthood,
this boy received from those who came
and ministered unto him from the regions
of glory, the world of heavenly light.
Think what a wonderful manifestation
was given this lad when but fourteen 
years of age, he went into the woods to 
pray, to inquire of the Lord, which of all
the different churches was the right one.
	The boy was so wrought upon in the 
midst of a great religious revival that pre-
vailed in the vicinity, that he knew not 
what to do. He searched the Scriptures
for light and found the passage in the
Epistle of James which reads, “If any of
you lack wisdom let him ask of God who
giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth 
not and it shall be given him,” and this
young Joseph, with implicit faith, sought
the Lord in humility and prayer, he was
alone, it was his first prayer vocally, and
he felt the powerful influence of nature.
The poet says “the groves were God’s first
temples,” and no doubt like Jacob of old
he wrestled mightily in solemn prayer, 
and a voice from on high spoke to him, 
and directed him what course he must 
take. The world would not believe him.
Many times afterwards heavenly messen-
gers were sent to minister unto him, and
he suffered almost continuous persecution
because of unbelief.
	Subsequently he received knowledge of
the hidden record and translated it by the
gift and power of the Holy Ghost, the
work was beginning to grow, the restor-
ation of the Everlasting Gospel in the Lat-
ter-day dispensation.
	When one reflects upon what the
Prophet Joseph did in the few years he
was permitted to teach and preach, look-
ing at the matter as a serious problem,
taking the bare facts of the case into con-
sideration, an unlettered boy, one cannot
but feel it to be a marvel and a wonder.
Founding and organizing a church and
enunciating doctrines, that cannot be con-
troverted by the most celebrated divines
––a church that has held people together
as a body of religious worshippers for three

[Column 2]
quarters of a century, people too of many
nations, looking at it naturally it seems
incredible, and yet it has been demon-
strated in the eyes of the whole world. 
	Nothing could produce the effect of 
uniting together people of such a great
variety of nations, languages, customs,
habits and sentiments to live in peace and 
harmony and establish themselves in
communities, fulfilling temporal duties
and obligations except the Spirit of the
Lord; all testify alike of the divinity of
the Gospel as revealed though the Proph-
et Joseph Smith, and carried forward by
his successors in office down to the pres-
ent time.
	The truths proclaimed by the Prophet
Joseph have permeated the world, not
only has the Everlasting Gospel as taught
by the Savior and His Apostles been
preached in many lands and in thousands
of cities bringing converts by tens of thou-
sands, but the influence accompanying
these divine principles has spread like
the mustard seed, blown hither and thith-
er, and has developed a vast change of 
sentiment among the children of men,
light has come into the world, the glori-
ous, radiating light that will eventually
revolutionize the world of mankind, and
men yet unborn will come to acknowledge
the boy Prophet a great benefactor, as
well as Seer and Revelator.
	The saying of the celebrated Josiah
Quincy of Massachusetts, who visited the
Prophet Joseph Smith at Nauvoo, Ill.,
in company with Hon. Charles Francis
Adams, Sr., on the 15th of May, 1844,
forty-three days before the martyrdom,
has at present every likelihood of coming
to pass. In describing his impressions of
this man whom he saw, among other re-
marks in his published report, he made
use of the following language: “It is not
at all improbable that some text book for
the generations yet unborn might contain
this question: What historical American
of the nineteenth century has exerted the
most powerful influence upon the desti-
nies of his countrymen. And it is by no
means impossible that the answer might 
be Joseph Smith the Mormon Prophet.”
	The erection of the handsome and
durable marble monument on the spot
where this baby boy was born marks an
event that will mean much to the chil-
dren of Zion, more potent in creating
sentiment than volumes of written his-
tory; it is an object lesson that will be
of lasting duration, and will attract the
attention of strangers, as well as our own
people. 
	This hundredth anniversary has had a
telling effect in many ways; it has revived
old memories of those who knew the
Prophet personally, and brought out many
incidents of his life and recollections of
the man himself, his majestic appearance,
his commanding figure, his dignified bear-
ing, his gracious manner, his innate re-
finement, his spiritual eloquence, his great
gift of healing the sick and afflicted, and
in short everything pertaining to his re-
ligious, social and domestic life, that
could be told by those most familiar with
him under all the peculiar circumstances
that he had to meet and combat with,
in introducing and carrying forward the
work to which he had been called by
divine authority.
	Joseph Smith was as tender-hearted as
a little child, this is the testimony of all
and yet he had the courage of a lion, it is

[Column 3]
a true saying that “the gentlest are the
bravest.”
	Joseph Smith the Prophet was assured-
ly a philanthropist in the broadest accep-
tation of the term. In all his labors he
proved the philanthropic nature of his 
character. The Church he founded, hav-
ing been called of God, gave to man and
woman equal privileges of voting on all
subjects, and at that time, in 1830, such
a thing was unheard of, as far as our
knowledge of churches extends; and he
was the first man to organize the women
of the Church into a philanthropic so-
ciety, taking the initiative himself, retir-
ing from the meeting while they elected 
their own officers; advising them to ob-
serve parliamentary usage in their meet-
ings. This was March 17, 1842, long be-
fore woman’s organizations had become
a part and parcel of the world’s activities.
This benevolent society named by the few
women who met together in that first 
meeting “The Relief Society” has grown
and flourished ever since, and of the small
number assembled on that occasion, 
there is now just one representative. wo-
man to testify of the commencement of
that event which marks an epoch in the
progress of women in this “dispensation
of the fulness of times.” This woman,
Bathsheba W. Smith, is the General
President of the Society, that at the pres-
ent time reaches around the world, and
is not only national but international in
its scope, having branches in many for-
eign lands and on the islands of the sea,
and it is a favorite saying of its President
and others, that the sun never sets upon
the Relief Society, which is verily true.
	The women of the world who deride
the name and who defame the character
of Joseph Smith, should take a little time
to look up on his advanced ideas of wo-
manhood. His gentle, chivalrous and
reverential manner towards all women
was a distinguishing trait in the character
of this most remarkable and wonderful
man. One could not meet him even
casually without feeling the potent influ-
ence of the atmosphere that enveloped
him, as entirely different from other men
of the same period. Though he was in-
deed the greatest man of his time (that 
the writer has ever seen) yet one of his 
chief attributes was humility, and also
forbearance with the weaknesses and
frailties of those with whom he was
brought in contact.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith revealed to
this generation many mighty truths
hitherto unknown in the world of man-
kind, and the work founded by him has
brought salvation to many thousands,
and they have been shown how to live,
and what to do, that future happiness in
the family relation might be secured.
There is no other church that teaches
these fundamental truths. One of the 
greatest testimonies of the divinity of
the Latter-day work established by the 
Prophet Joseph through revelation and
authority from on high is the knowledge
obtained concerning sacred temples,
wherein holy ordinances are performed
for the living and the dead. To those who
have entered into this sublime work with
pure hearts, it has given them higher
views of this life, and has opened up
vistas of light and understanding that no
gold or riches could purchase from them.
Can one imagine greater progress than
this, the unfolding of hidden mysteries,


the receiving of keys to open doors closed
for centuries, whereby those who sit in
darkness may be admitted into light and
be eventually redeemed and partake of the
blessings promised through the ordinances
of the Gospel?
	The recent visit of President Joseph F.
Smith to the State of Vermont is an 
event of great significance more so than
has yet appeared. Greater things will
grow out of this journey than even the
dedication of this beautiful monument,
which is in itself a splendid tribute to the
martyred Prophet, and although much
has been accomplished among many peo-
ples of many lands, since the Prophet
Joseph Smith was born, yet greater works
are yet to come, and those who live to-
day will see more temples reared, to the
name of the Lord, more waste places
made habitable, and though calamities
may come, and wars not cease, and the
very elements of the earth be in commo-
tion as has been prophesied not only by
ancient prophets but by the Prophet
Joseph Smith in this our day, yet Zion
will prosper and grow famous, and those
who are faithful and true will have part
in the blessings that will be poured out
in rich abundance upon this glorious
land, America.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We acknowledge with grateful thanks
the gift of the Primary Song Book pre-
pared by the General Board of the Prim-
ary Association, for the children of Zion.
Many of the songs are new, which will
particularly recommend it to favor with
the little people who are always delighted
with something new. The Primary Gen-
eral Board are to be congratulated on the
success they are making in all depart-
ments of their work. The Children’s
Friend is ably conducted, and contains in
every issue the best material possible to
assist those who have charge in the wards
in making their work interesting and in-
structive, and not tedious to the little
ones. It is wonderful how the work has
grown and what has been accomplished
for the little people, and singing is one of
the chief attractions, of the meetings.
Welcome every new original song, the
songs of a people are repeated when ser-
mons are forgotten.

	The Woman’s Journal of Boston, Mass.,
mentions the death of one quite well
known to the writer and to some of our
Utah people. Mrs. Jane Spafford whose
husband kept the Riggs House in Wash-
ington, D. C., for many years. It was
quite a popular hotel and Mr. and Mrs.
Spafford were always most genial, and
both were the very soul of kindness and
hospitality. They were both equal suf-
fragists and their hotel was Woman Suf-
frage headquarters, for conventions, etc.,
for many years. Mrs. Spafford was treas-
urer for the National W. S. A. many
years until she left Washington to reside
in Maine, her native state. She died at
her own home in Hampden, Maine, about
the twentieth of December. The journal
will publish the “In Memoriam,” from
which we shall be glad to glean some
items for our paper. Mrs. Spafford was a
close friend of Miss Susan B. Anthony
and Mrs. Stanton who passed away some
years ago. She was a magnificent woman
in figure and appearance, one never to be


forgotten, her snow white hair and digni-
fied carriage, her sweet face and gracious
manner distinguished her in her own
home and wherever she appeared in pub-
lic.


PASSING THOUGHTS. 
	"The beauty of the house is order; the blessing
of the house is contentment; the glory of the
house is hospitality; the crown of the house is
godliness."
	Not one of the above virtues is denied
the home of any one, rich and poor alike
may be the proud possessors. It neither
takes fine furnishings nor rich draperies
to possess order. The humble, plain and
simple articles, if kept in place and neat-
ness, will render the home beautiful;
while the costly and rare furnishings, if
kept in confusion, will produce a jarring
and unpleasant effect.
	No matter how much or what some
people possess, there is always a desire for
something else—a covetousness and envy
that renders life unpleasant, not only for
the one so built; but for those who have
to live near such a person. How very
few there are in this world with that hap-
py content of The Miller of the Dee, and
yet how blessed are those who are con-
tent with doing right and making the
most and the best of their surroundings
and circumstances. Contentment renders
the home life smooth, tranquil, and brings
the blessing of peace.
	How delightful to enter a home and
feel in the very atmosphere a welcome.
No elaborate preparations for the formal
receiving of guests is necessary to make
one rejoice in the glory of the house, but
just the simple friendliness of a smile and
extended hand, which silently says, "We
are glad of your coming, enter, what we
have is yours,"
	Such a home, with these possessions,
surely has a claim to the crown of god-
liness. For the spirit of love, which is
the greatest of all things, pervades the
home where hospitality, contentment and
order dwell.
	Nearly three quarters of a century has
passed since the book of revelations
known as the Doctrine and Covenants,
was given to the world. And the world
laughed at and scorned the work from
that day to this. Only the few honest in
heart received it in the spirit in which it
was given; but as time goes on and
thought advances, the scientists and
philosophers of this age keep advancing
and bringing forth works and regulations
for mankind, all in keeping with this
wondrous book—the Word of Wisdom is
only one example. All over the world
now, those who have at heart the idea
of preserving one's body and mind in
clear and pure condition for long useful-
ness, teach them the Word of Wisdom,
call it what they may—"The New
Thought." "The Ralston," "The Health
Food," or any other name. They eat
simply very little, if any, meat, abstinence
from liquor, tobacco and hot drinks and
utmost watch and care of the body. Yet
the Latter-day Saints, with all their
teaching and knowledge, have been slow
to follow the word of the Lord in this
respect. It was given as a command,
like other commands have been given us
and reason proves the wisdom and bless-
ing of it. A. W. C.


IN MEMORIAM.
		DORCAS GEORGIANA KING.
	Dorcas Georgiana King, wife of Bishop Thomas
O. King, who died Aug. 20th, 1905, at Alma.
Idaho, was born July 10, 1846, at Norfolk, Eng-
land, was bapt zed when eight years of age, and
emigrated to U[-]ah in 1864. She was the mother
of eight children, five of whom survive her, A
loving husband, three sons and two daughters be-
side numerous relatives and friends, mourn her
uutimely death.
	Sister King was a true Latter-day Saint, a faith-
ful wife and loving mother; devoted to her duties
and to Relief Society work, of which she was
treasurer at the time of her death. Her influence
was always felt for good in this benevolent work
Her funeral was an ovation of love mingled with
sorrow and tears. Wreaths of beautiful flowers
lovingly covered the beautiful white casket in
which she was laid to rest.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to remove our dear sister to a
higher sphere, therefore be it,
	Resolved that we mourn her loss as a dear sister,
a faithful worker in the cause of truth, and as a
faithful treasurer of the Relief Society and that
we desire to emulate her worthy example
	Resolved, that we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and family, and pray our
Heavenly Father to let the comforting influence of
his Holy Spirit rest upon them, that they may real-
ize that she is enjoying the rest of the faithful; that
she will come forth to a glorious resurrection
crowned with immortality and eternal life.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
placed on our record, one be sent to the bereaved
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
				JANE DURFEE, President,
				MARGARET E. WARD, Secretary.


OBITUARY.
	Tribute to the memory of Sister Jane M. Car-
ington Young, who departed this life, November
10, 1905.
	The news of the sudden death of “Aunt Jane
Young,” as she was affectionately called, came as
a painful shock to her family and many friends,
for although she had not been in good health for
some time, she was ever cheerful and hopeful, and
a regular attendant at all Relief Society meetings,
as also all ward meetings and the Sunday School,
and had successfully performed each duty and
labor devolving upon her, never resting from her
toil till the Master called her home.
	Sister Young was an example of unselfish devo-
tion to her husband, children, friends, and all
with whom she was associated. As a member of
the 17th Ward Relief Society, she labored unceas-
ingly, acting as treasurer of the association, she
was also the chairman of the work committee. In
this capacity she was unexcelled, no task being too
hard for her to undertake, all were willingly,
cheerfully performed.
	She visited the sick and afflicted, ministering to
their temporal needs as far as her circumstances
would permit, not only sharing her means but car-
rying them beautiful flowers, of which she was
very fond and labored diligently to care for, but
giving them her time, cheerful presence, spiritual
help and encouragement.
	Sister Young passed from mortality without
pain or suffering and although the call came sud-
denly, she was ready, and to all who know her
life’s labors comes the conviction that of her it can
be said, “All is well.”—Com.
	Tribute to the memory of Sister Ursula Rumel.
When it became known that Sister Rumel had
been called to the great beyond keen sorrow filled
the hearts of her family, friends and associates, for
although she had suffered severely for some time,
yet because of her children, who are left without
father or mother, from our human standpoint it
seemed that she could hardly be spared, but even
in our most severe afflictions we feel to look
to our Heavenly Father whom we know,
‘doeth all things well,” trusting in His infinite
mercy and loving care for all His children; and
thus becoming reconciled to every dispensation of
His providence.
	Sister Rumel was a woman whom to know was
to love; An affectionate, devoted wife; a true
mother in the fullest sense of the word, her unself-
ish devotion to her family knew no bounds. Being


left a widow many years ago, she has struggled
bravely, cheerfully and patiently to fulfill her duty
to her children, her associates and her God. All
who knew her can testify that she succeeded in
her noble and high aims. Before her health failed
she was an active, intelllgent worker in the Relief
Society, visiting the sick and afflicted in the capac-
ity of a teacher, and performing every duty of
that calling to the satisfaction of her associates.
	Her life has been a beautiful and exemplary one
and we have joy and comfort in the knowledge
that she is entitled to all the blessings promised to
the faithful. ---Com.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. 
RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED. 
	Agreeable to the request of Joseph E.
Robinson, President of the California
Mission, and Justus Swenson, President of
the San Francisco Branch, a special meet-
ing for the reorganizatiofi of the Ladies'
Relief Society of this city was called
November 8th, 1905, Sister Mary G.
Hughes, the President, having tendered
her resignation previously and same hav-
ing been accepted.
	President Robinson presided and called
the meeting to order. He addressed the
sisters upon the subject of the Relief
Society and its importance as an aid in
the Church.
	Sister Elizabeth Rawlinson was unani-
mously chosen President of the Society,
with Sisters Anna Stormfieldt and Eliza-
beth Hooper as Counselors. Sister W.
P. Wolfinger was unanimously sustained
as Secretary.
	President Rawlinson addressed the sis-
ters asking their assistance and faith that
they might have a Relief Society in very
deed. Sisters Stormfieldt, Hooper and
Wolfinger followed.
	Testimonies were borne by many
present and a good spirit prevailed
throughout.
	W. P. Wolfinger, Secretary.


REORGANIZATION 22ND WARD, CITY.
	A special meeting of the 22nd Ward
Relief Society was called June 14, 1904.
Bishop Alfred Solomon presided. On
the stand were Bishop Alfred Solomon,
Counselors John L. Nebeker and Arthur
Winter, also Counselor Georgina Fox
Young of the Salt Lake Stake Relief
Society and Coun. Elizabeth H. Davis of
the 22nd Ward Relief Society.
	Bishop Solomon stated the purpose of
the meeting. He spoke of the good work
President Rachel Whipple had done.
She had been faithful and true to the pos-
ition she had held. He also spoke of the
faithfulness of her Counselors.
	President Rachel Whipple and Coun-
selor Maria L. Nebeker were honorably
released with the best wishes and love of
all. Bishop Solomon said the duties of
the Relief Society are great and urged
the sisters to visit the homes of those who
are bowed down with sorrow. He said
he hoped that the sisters would be willing
to accept and sustain those who would be
placed before them for their accept-
ance.
	Sister Elizabeth H. Davis was then
chosen to be President of the 22nd Ward
Relief Society with Mary L. Solomon as
her first and Harriet Maria James as her
second Counselors. All were unanimous-
ly sustained.
	Counselor John L. Nebeker spoke of
his regret at not seeing more of the sis-
ters present. Said he regarded the posi-


tion of a Relief Society teacher as a great
responsibility.
	Counselor Arthur Winter spoke for a
short time on the good that the Relief
Society had done in the Church. He
said he considered it second to none of
the auxiliary organizations. Sister Geor-
gina Fox Young of the Stake Relief
Society spoke of the wisdom in reorganiz-
ing. We can gain much by doing charity
work. Sisters Elizabeth Davis, Mary L.
Solomon and Harriet M. James each ex-
pressed a willingness to fill the positions
assigned them. Sister Lula Winn was
then chosen to act as Secretary, and ex-
pressed her willingness to act in the posi-
tion.
	The above sisters were then set apart
to their various positions under the hands
of Bishop Solomon, Counselor Arthur
Winter and Elder John Kingdon. After
singing and benediction, meeting ad-
journed.
		HARRIET JAMES, Secretary.


[Column 1]
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Maricopa Stake was held Nov. 23rd, in
the Mesa R. S, Hall, commencing at 2
o’clock, with First Counselor Melissa
Hunsaker presiding. Attendance of 36
officers and members and two brethren of
the Stake presidency.
	After opening remarks, Prest. Florence
A. Dana reported the Mesa ward to be in
good condition. They have nearly fin-
ished the mothers’ work program. Prest.
Sophronia Stewart said the attendance at
the Alma ward was not as good as she
would like. They have reading from the
Doctrine and Covenants and mothers’
work lectures. Counselor Hunsaker said
all the wards had been visited and all
were striving to do right, Stake Secre-
tary Anna E. Fuller reported the Pine
ward in good condition both spiritually
and temporally. They have the mothers’
work lectures. Coun. Parmelia Horne
had visited the Mesa and Lehi wards
since returning home, but Lehi held no
meeting.
	Coun. Wm. J. LeBaron said that faith
without works is dead. Helping others
awakens in the human heart a love of the
Lord. The good results of the labors of
the Relief Society are truly felt when we
are in need, and the good we do comes
back to us in blessings; many opportuni-
ties are lost by those who are not organ-
ized in their wards for Relief Society
work. Other denominations are follow-
ing in our footsteps. Let our example be
worthy for them to follow.
	Coun. Isaac Dana said we will be judged
by our works and the records we make
here. The riches of eternity are gained
by the faithful.
	Stake Missionary Sarah M. Pomeroy
said that those who do not take hold in
this work are the losers. She rejoiced in
the gospel and was glad to help the
needy. Eliza Leavitt and Sarah Vance
bore testimony. Alice Richens said she
never forgot meeting days, and felt it to
be our duty to carry on this work. Bar-
bara Lang was glad to meet with the sis-
ters again. Had greatly enjoyed her visit
with relatives in the East, and had ob-
tained some genealogy and hoped to be
able to do some work for relatives who
are dead.
	Counselor Hunsaker made a few closing

[Column 2]
remarks and thanked the brethren for
meeting with us.
	Singing and benediction. Conference
adjourned.
		ANNA E. FULLER, Secy.

	Sunday, Nov. 2.—At the General Con-
ference of the Maricopa Stake R. S.,
President Mabel A. Hakes was hon-
orably released on account of her remov-
al to New Mexico, and Melissa Hunsaker
was sustained as Stake Prest. of the Mar-
icopa Relief Society, with Parmelia
Horne and Sophronia Stewart as her
counselors. At the close of the meeting
the sisters were set apart by Apostles F.
M. Lyman and Rudger Clawson.
						A. E. F.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society
of the Box Elder stake convened in the
Tabernacle, Brigham City, Tuesday, De-
cember 12, 1905, President Susannah P.
Booth presiding. Present beside Relief
society stake board, President Oleen N.
Stohl and Brother Jos. Burt.
	Conference opened with singing, prayer
and singing. Minutes of previous fore-
noon conference read and accepted.
	President S. P. Booth made opening
remarks, said we were willing to do any-
thing we could to make the meetings in-
teresting, so we could have better attend-
ance, bore her testimony, and spoke in
regard to “Mother’s work.”
	Prest. Mary Fredahl represented the
Elwood association in good running order,
had built a granary and had between 140
and 150 bushels of wheat.
	Prest. Sarah Fredahl reported Bear
River City society in good running order,
were united and held good meetings.
	Counselor Mary Perry represented Per-
ry association, said they had times of re-
joicing when they met together; spoke of
the “Mother’s work,” felt it was a grand
work, and had done much good, bore a
strong testimony to the goodness of God.
Sister Miller represented Thatcher associ-
ation, had an energetic band of sisters and
were doing as well as they possibly could.
Prest. Mary E. Ward reported Willard
society. The officers and teachers work
in love and harmony together, attendance
not as good as might be, held meetings
regularly. Prest. Elizabeth Loveland re-
ported Deweyville association; reported
a good time spent in visiting all through
their ward with the people, gathered
$31.60 from Sunday eggs, and bought
wheat; were all united in the Relief so-
ciety work. 
	President Oleen N. Stohl was pleased
to listen to the good reports given by the
sisters, felt to say God bless our mothers,
said a few words on the care of the poor,
spoke of the times in which we live and
the requirements made of us; spoke also
on punctuality and habits, our religion is
to us just what we make it; gave many
more good and timely instructions, asked
the blessing of God upon all.
	Morning session adjourned with singing
and prayer.
	2 p. m.—Afternoon session opened with
the usual exercises. Minutes of previous
afternoon conference read and approved.
Roll called, 13 associations represented.
	Prest. Annie C. Johnson reported Brig-
ham City 1st ward in usual condition,
held meetings and mother’s work regular-
ly. Prest. Emma Lee reported Brigham
City 3rd ward, felt the Relief society


[Column 1]
testimony meetings were about the best
meetings we hold, spoke on forming the
habit of attending meeting, felt we could
not be too thankful for the blessings we
receive. Prest. Annie C. Jensen reported
Mantua society in usual good condition,
were united, and the spirit of God was
with them, had 348 bushels of wheat.
Prest. Charlotte W. Boden reported
Brigham City 2nd ward, was thankful to
be one with the sisters in the blessings
and privileges she enjoyed, reported all
in good condition. President Sarah J.
Wilde of Brigham City 4th ward reported
having a good band of sisters who were
active and willing to do whatever called
upon to do. Sister Mary Wright was
pleased to be able to get out, had en-
joyed listening to the reports, thought the
Relief society was doing a good work,
felt well in the gospel and knew it was
true, said we were to have charity and
love for each other.
	A solo was rendered by Sister May
Hoops.
	Counselor Emelia D. Madsen spoke of
the early days and the association of
Prest. Harriet A. Snow, and the loving
kind words they received from the sisters
in those days, spoke on celebrating the
Prophet’s birthday, spoke a few words
on raffling, gave some directions to secre-
taries and the importance of keeping
dates, spoke a few words on the stake
board visiting around with the associa-
tions and how it was enjoyed, and of the
blessings received through prayer and ad-
ministration, gave many other good in-
structions.
	Sister Emma Vance said the Lord in-
spires the sisters to speak to us, and
cause us to feel refreshed in our minds,
and helps us to more fully appreciate our minds,
surroundings, spoke of the rearing and
responsibility of children, and urged the
sisters to do their duties in this regard.
	Stake Counselor Lucius A. Snow felt
to call attention to a piece in the Im-
provement Era in regard to the Prophet
Joseph Smith; related a circumstance in
relation to his mother and her great faith,
spoke of his mother’s death, and how the
evil had influence over him, and how
through the influence of his sister he got
rid of the evil which had possession of
him; referred to fault finding, and urged
all to help and strengthen each other.
	President S. P. Booth felt to thank the
brethren and sisters for the good counsel
given, felt the Spirit of God had been with
us, and made other good closing remarks.
	After singing Doxology, prayer was of-
fered, and conference adjourned for six
months.
			ANNIE K. LITTLEWOOD,
					Cor. Sec. pro tem.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Alpine Stake was held at American Fork,
October 20th, 1905, President Rebecca
Standring presiding. After the opening
exercises President Standring made open-
ing remarks. Thought we ought to be
improved by the many teachings we have

[Column 2]
received lately. The Board are work-
ing hard for the benefit of the Society.
The teachings of the President at Con-
ference were very important. After re-
ports from some of the presidents, Coun-
selor Ida Smoot Dusenberry addressed
the meeting; she loved to meet the sisters
of the Relief Society and look in their
faces, it always gave her inspiration, can
see traces of a hard-working life. We
unconsciously recieve inspiration and a 
restful spirit; loved to look on the face of
President Bathsheba W. Smith and to see
the purity of spirit expressed in her fea-
tures. Spoke of her travels, her visit to
Rome and Italy, and her experience in
Portland at the Fair interspersed with
many pleasing reminiscences. “It is
through doing for others that our charac-
ters are being built up, the more charity
and love we can have the faster we are
growing. We are a charitable organiza-
tion, but it does not stop with the physic-
al but the intellect must be built up.
Spoke of motherhood and the importance
of home training and the necessity of liv-
ing in harmony. Life is made up of
little things, and let us cherish love, char-
ity and all the graces of the gospel.”
	Singing, “How firm a Foundation.”
Two of the presidents reported.
	President Jas. H. Clarke: “Are we fully
alive to our opportunities, have we the
confidence we should have in the princi-
ples of the church; except we receive and
enjoy the spirit of our organization, we
cannot do much good. How good it
would be if the sisters could open their
hearts to the teachers and receive in-
struction suitable to their condition. If
we had perfect confidence in each other
the instruction would be of the right
kind.” Believed we were advancing; “if
we had the entire love and confidence of
each other what a wonderful effect it
would have, and how much advancement
we should make.”
	Singing and Benediction. Adjourned
until 2 o’clook.
	Afternoon Session: President Standring
presiding. After the usual exercises,
President Standring said it was necessary
for us to come together and learn our
duty and to bless each other. Hoped we
would have a profitable time this after-
noon.
	Reports were given of Manila, Alpine,
and Cedar Fort. Song. “There’s work
for all,” Sisters Evans and Grant. Next
was an address by Counselor Annie C.
Hindley, “The duties of parents to chil-
dren, and the duties of children to par-
ents.”
	Singing. “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.
	President Stephen L. Chipman said the
Presidency and Bishops appreciate the
efforts of the Relief Society and the sis-
ters may be congratulated on their in-
tegrity and faithfulness; he had been led
to reflect on the condition of the people.
Found that in the primary departments
of the schools the boys and girls seem
about equal in number, but as you move

[Column 3]
up to the higher classes the boys grow
scarcer. “Every mother has a desire
that her children should grow up good
Latter-day Saints. We have more moth-
ers than fathers who take an interest in
the advancement of the children. Chil-
dren are the heritage of the Lord and are
a glorious blessing. There is a great call
for young men in the mission field; the
Spirit of the Lord is operating on the
minds of the people and they are inquir-
ing for missionaries and information. The
Church is growing and we are becoming
more of a light set on a hill. Outsiders
cannot refrain from saying: “The Mor-
mons are a wonderful people.” How
many are trying to plant faith in the
hearts of the children. The harvest is
great and the laborers are few. There is
a call for 600 missionaries; mothers, with-
hold not your sons nor your daughters:
people who hear the stories against this
people are led to wonder and investigate
and they desire to know the truth. Take
courage, sisters, and don’t hinder your
boy from taking a mission if he is young,
and you will rejoice that he went.”
	Sister Sina Chipman gave an address on
Charity.
	President Abel J. Evans spoke of the
grand invocation of President Joseph F.
Smith at conference, when he blessed his
brethren and sisters each and all and
even his enemies, and asked the Lord to
forgive them until the people were melted
to tears, and he determined that as long
as he lived, he would never harbor a feel-
ing of animosity against any of his
brethren.
	President Standring felt to bless the
sisters, with their husbands, their families,
their homes and all their possessions.
Prayed for a blessing on all with salvation
in the presence of God.
	Singing “Praise God from Whom all
blessings flow.”
	Benediction by Sister Mary A. Webb.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.


48 WOMAN'S EXPONENT


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim  to give you
as much as possible for your money.        TRY US 
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minor,
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


CLEANING A SEWING MACHINE.
	To clean a sewing machine, says Lon-
don Tid Bits, place it near the fire to get
warm, that the congealed oil about it may
melt, and then oil it thoroughly with par-
affin. Work it quickly for a few minutes,
then wipe off all the paraffin and dirt,
treat it to a little more paraffin, wipe it
again, and after the application of a very
little of the ordinary lubricating oil it will
be ready for use, and its easy working will
be an ample reward for any trouble in-
curred.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
