Vol. 34 SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, JULY AND AUGUST 1905. No. 2-3


CONTENTS.
Address by President Jos. F. Smith...............				9
R. S. Conference, Weber Stake....................				7
R. S. Report, Alpine Stake........................				11
An Indian Scare,...............E. B. Spencer				11
The American Church, Berlin......L. D. Alder			11
A Trip to Portland with the Press Club, L.<Louise>B.C.	13
R. S. Reports, Panguitch and Emery Stakes,				18
	Pioneer;and Oneida Stakes.....................			14
	Box Elder, and Nebo Stakes...............				15
Honor to a Veteran Woman...................					16
In Memoriam...........................................				16
EDITORIAL:—Apology and Explanation—A
	Notable Anniversary—A Day of Wonders
	—Editorial Notes.............................				12
POETRY:—The Pioneer............A. W. Cannon			9
	The Dreamer—Peddemoor Hall............				11


THE PIONEER.
	[Written for Professor Charles Kent and sung
at the celebration July 24, 1905.]
O'er prairies vast,
And deserts drear,
There came a valiant band,
Through moutnain pass,
And rivers clear,
Unto the promised land,
Unto the promised land,
Oh praise, Oh praise his name,
Oh give, Oh give him fame,
With courage bold,
With heart of gold,
His deeds we do revere,
Oh none so brave,
His life he gave,
The bo[-]d, the dauntless pioneer.

His hardship great,
And toil untold
Transformed the desert wide,
Now gardens fair,
Homes rich and rare
Appear on every side,
Appear on every side;
Oh praise, Oh praise his name,
Oh give, Oh give him fame,
With courage bold,
With heart of gold,
His deeds we do revere,
Oh none so brave.
His life he gave
The bold, the dauntless p[-]oneer.

ANNIE WELLS CANNON.
Tune of "A Warrior Bold."


[Column 1]
ADDRESS BY PREST. JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	In the Relief Society Conference, morn-
ing session, Ogden, June 6, 1905.
	President Smith: "I trust that we were
not responsible for the lateness of the
train; we pushed on it as hard as we
could to get it here in time, but it
seemed to be a little leisurely about
coming, and we were compelled to abide
its time for we could not get here before.
I am glad, however, that we are here,
and that we have the privilege of seeing
so many of the mothers and daughters of
Israel assembled as I see in this meeting,
and I sincerely hope that this Conference
will prove to be a very interesting one, and
I trust instructive, by the presence in-
spiration and influence of the good spirit
of the Lord. It is through the spirit of
God that we enjoy light, and that we are
able to understand truth; therefore I
hope the spirit of God may take the
presidency over the hearts and feelings o[-]

[Column 2]
all the sisters and of the brethren who
are assembled here in this meeting, and
that will assemble here this afternoon,
and that what is said may be said under
the inspiration of the spirit of the Lord,
also that what is done may be done
strictly with an eye single to the building
up of the Kingdom of God in the earth.
I feel that it is a great occasion to see so
many of the mothers and daughters of
Israel assembled together in one meet-
ing. I had no idea that I would see so
many, but I am pleased to see you and
pleased to meet with you, and as I said
before, I hope that we will have a time
of rejoicing together, that we will become
better acquainted with each other, and
that perchance the Lord will give to us,
some words of counsel, of inspiration, of
exhortation or of admonition, as the spirit
may direct, that will be beneficial to us
all, and that will help to lift up the
spirits, put joy into the souls and cour-
age into our hearts, and give us wisdom,
that we may be able to direct our lives
in the channel of peace, of good will
towards all mankind, and in the way
that will result in the greatest possible
good to ourselves and to all those with
whom we come in contact in our daily
walk in life. I look upon the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints as one of the most
important auxiliary organizations in the
Church. I think it is one of the greatest
importance, and in which very many vital
things, vital principles and vital necessi-
ties are involved—the necessities of the
poor, the necessities of the weak, the
necessities of the erring, and of those
that lack understanding, and the testi-
mony of the spirit of God in their hearts.
This organization is instituted and in-
tended for the correction of all these
imperfections, lacks and needs and the
filling up of all the vacancies that may
exist with perfect knowledge, perfect
understanding, perfect fidelity to duty,
and to the performance of those great
and good works  that are necessary for
these organizations to perform.
	Now may the Lord bless you, my
sisters and my brethren, and all that per-
taineth to you; may peace dwell in your
hearts, and may the love of truth ever
burn in your souls, that you may be de-
voted to the cause of Zion, that you
may be interested in this work in which
you are engaged, that you may sustain
your presiding officers, from first to last,
and respect authority, the authority that
the Lord has given, that He has insti-
tuted and established. A due regard and
respect for the authorities of the Church,
both in the Relief Society and all the
auxiliary organizations and in the various
organizations of the quorums of the
priesthood, and in the organizations of
the stakes of Zion and the wards of
the Church, in all these organizations
a proper regard and a proper and whole-
some respect for the authorities of the
Church is absolutely necessary to the en-
joyment of a proper spirit on the part of

[Column 3]
the Latter-day Saints. We cannot enjoy
the right spirit in our hearts if we neglect
to respect those things that God has done.
and the organizations that He has insti-
tuted for the government and guidance of
His people.
	Now may the Lord bless you. I realize
that it is late, and that it was not intend-
ed for me to say but a few words, and I
therefore shall close, by asking the Lord,
our Father, to bless you sisters, as moth-
ers, as wives, as daughters, and as mem-
bers of the Relief Society of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and
may He prosper you in all your labors,
in your homes, in your outgoings and in-
comings, and when you shall lie down
and when you shall rise up; may peace
dwell in your souls; may your hearts be
lifted up, full of joy and thanksgiving to
the Father, and may you realize to the
fullest extent and in the fullest measure
that you are indeed engaged in the work
of salvation for the human family. This
is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.


(Continued from page 8, June Number.)

AFTERNOON SESSION.

	Sister Emmeline B. Wells: I feel as
some of the sisters said, that it is too bad
for us who are always talking to the Re-
lief Society to take the time to day, when
we have the brethren here, and es-
pecially when we have President Smith,
	I have been thinking while I have
been sitting here, that all of you younger
people will remember with as much joy
and satisfaction that you shook hands
with President Joseph F. Smith as I re-
member when I was very young of shaking
hands with the Prophet Joseph. I can
never forget it, nor the sensation that it
gave me, that I felt as if I did not want
anyone to speak to me; I felt it was such
a sacred thing. Now I hope you children,
all of you who have seen him seen him here to day,
and all of you who have shaken hands
with him, will remember it with as much
joy, because he stands in the same posi-
tion with us as Joseph the Prophet did,
although of course he is not THE PROPHET
of this dispensation, not the first, but he
is one of them and we know him well, feel
very greatly honored whenever we are in
his presence, or with him, and feel that we 
would like him to come into our homes,
and I am sure you would feel glad that he 
came into this hall today.
	I look back and remember with a great
deal of pleasure the day on which the or-
ganization of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake was effected, when Presi-
dent Young and others associated with 
him came and visited the Relief Society,
when all the organizations were gathered
together, the Relief Society, and the
Young Ladies associations, in the taber-
nacle. Of course President Shurtliff was
there, although he was not the President
then. And others here who remember
that great occasion, and we had never
thought of stake organizations of the Re-


[Column 1]
lief Society, although some stakes had
been organized ecclesiastically. On that
occasion a great many good things
were said by President Young and others
who were there with him, and toward
the latter part of the meeting he ap-
pointed Sister Jane S. Richards, who is
here with us to day. That was twenty-
eight years ago the 19th of July, and he
appointed her to preside over all the or-
ganizations. At that time the Young
Ladies Association, or the Retrenchment
Associations, were with the Relief Society,
and had no central organization, nor had
the Relief Society. I often asked Sister
Eliza if she was really the President, and
she said: ,,No, I am not, because I have
not been elected". But she was elected
afterwards, as you know, in 1880, and had
her counselors. But that was the begin-
ning of stake organizations, and when-
ever I come to a conference here and see
a large number of sisters gathered to-
gether I look back to that period of time.
You know we older people are always
looking back and thinking of things that
happened so long ago, and I am always
thinking of those that were there at that
time, and many of them that have gone
on the other side. We have more of them
over there; in fact we have only about
three of the oldest veterans of the Re-
lief Society living, and those are our own
General President, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, and Sister Jane S. Richards and
Sister Mary Isabella Horne, who is not
able now to be among us and visit us,
but is still living and able to talk with us,
and sometimes goes out among us. These
three I consider as veterans that stand
in the Relief Society of those who stood
in the beginning, although Sister Richards
and Sister Horne were not present on the
great occasion, which we must call a
great occasion and a grand occasion, when
the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the
Relief Society, on the 17 day of March,
1842. And what a wonderful work has
been done since then!
	I do hope, that you sisters at the farther
end of the hall heard what our President
said to us to day, because really she stands
in a way alone, being present at the first
organization, and also being the only one
living, man or woman, who received her
endowments in the days of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and so it seems a wonder-
ful thing to all of us who know it, and we
think of it and we feel, that she has
certainly been spared for some great pur-
pose; and it is a great purpose to stand at
the head of this organization, and to lead
it and to plan for it. Of course you who
plan for your own little wards and for
your own stakes of Zion, think that is
a great thing; but when you come to plan
for all the organizations all over the
world, and new ones being made almost
all the time, why it is a wonderful thing
to stand at the head of that. And then
remember too, that she is the leading
woman in the temple, in the greatest
temple, the Salt Lake Temple, where
those great manifestations were at the
time it was dedicated, in that holy place.
I think we cannot reverence her, or the
other sisters I spoke of, too much. We
are happy to reverence those, who are
gone, the prophets, who are gone, and
the Apostles; but we must also remember
to reverence those that we have with us
to day: the president, his counselors, the
apostles, and those who stand at the

[Column 2]
head of the great organizations of the
quorums of Seventy and preach the Gospel
to all the world, I thought to day, when
Brother John Henry was speaking about
the missionaries outside in the world, and
mentioned some of the opportunities they
have, how often I have said to the young
people, and also to the mothers who
mourn for their sons going, which they
very often do, that it was the best thing
in the world for them. It is far better than
any college training, or any university
training, and we know many of us, that
the men who have gone out into the
world and never have had any of that
training have brought many souls to
Christ, have baptized many into the
church, and have had great success. The
spirit of God has been poured out upon
them. It does not need a college education
to give us the spiritual powers, and the
humblest and those who seek unto the
Lord himself, and read the Scriptures
and the Book of Mormon and the Book
of Covenants, will have that spirit with
them, or may have it, and do have it, to
a great extent. And if there is a book
that I think we ought to read it is the
Book of Covenants, that was given by
revelation to our prophet, the leader of
this dispensation, in this day and age of
the world; and I know it is not read as
it should be, and I know that many of us
who do read it read it carelessly.
	I do want to say that we have testi-
mony upon testimony every day of
our lives now, of the truth of the Gospel,
just think of the dark clouds that were
hanging over us a while back. O, they
were so dark that it almost seemed as
dark in Salt Lake City as it did in Nauvoo
when the Prophet Joseph was killed. It
seemed as if such a heavy dark cloud was
hanging over that city just about the
time that our brethren were called to go
down to Washington and testify, and
there were of course a very great many
prayers offered up, and no doubt a great
deal of faith exercised, for certainly the
Lord lifted that dark cloud and removed
from our hearts the fears and doubts and
forebodings that many of us had at that
time in regard to the outcome. And every
day these things are being removed, and
light is coming, faster and more of it, and
intelligence and wisdom and understand-
ing, and I h[-]pe that we will all partake
of it.
	I hope that the Lord may bless us with
wisdom and understanding, and that we
may never do or say anything that shall
grieve the spirit of the Lord, or those who
preside over us in all the places where we
are called to labor.
	President Smith's address will follow
in our next number.


WOMANS' EXPONENT.


<Column 1>
R. S. REPORTS.

		ALPINE STAKE.

	The quarterly Conference of the Alpine 
Stake Relief Society was held at Amer-
ican Fork July 21st 1905.
	President Rebecca Standring presiding.
We were favored with the presence of
our beloved President Bathsheba W.
Smith, also Clarissa S. Williams of the
General Board, all the Stake officers and
a full attendance of officers and members
of the wards. Meeting opened at 10
o'clock with the usual exercises. President
Standring gave a report of Alpine Stake
The Stake numbers something over 800

<Column 2>
members in 13 wards, have conjoint
meetings in 3 districts every three months,
also a monthly meeting of the officers of
the 4 wards of Am. Fork. The stake
officers meet oncc a month to report visits
and prepare work for the coming months,
and enjoy a good spiritual meeting in 
love and unity. Song by three little girls
"Count your blessings."
	General President B. W. Smith spoke
a short time. Thought it was better to 
count our blessings than to brood over our
troubles. Spoke of storing grain and ad-
vised the sisters to have good bins. Re-
ferred to the time, when the Presidency
used to counsel the brethren to lay up
sufficient grain to last their families seven
years, but the brethren did not take the 
advice, and the President put it into the
hands of the sisters to store grain for a
time of need. Advised the sisters to be in 
harmony with the Presidency and to be
united together to attend to the sick and 
poor, and to be sure and know that "Mor-
monism is true".
	To get a testimony of the work and to
teach it to their children. In Nauvoo they 
had the Prophet with them and he taught
them many glorious principles. She loved
to work in the Temple, had also worked
in the Nauvoo Temple. The work here
is carried on the same as it was in Nauvoo,
and the Temple is filled every day.
Prayed the Lord to bless the sisters in 
all their labors and may we meet together
again when called to the great beyond.
	Sister C. S. Williams: "The spirit of 
praise and thanksgiving should be in our
hearts continually for the blessings we re-
ceive". Was pleased with the idea of 
conjoint meetings of the wards and would
try to spread the custom. Advised
mothers to keep the girls at home as far
as possible, for they have no idea of the 
snares and temptations they will have to
meet. Gave good advice to the teachers
to seek the spirit of their work.
	Stake Coun. A. C. Hindley said many
had made sacrifices to attend this con-
ference. They had laid aside their cares
and come here to be fed by theHoly Spirit
and receive blessing. This is a noble
work and may we all be willing to do our 
part.
	American Fork 1st ward reported by
Pres. Elisabeth Durrant.
	Lehi 1st ward by Pres. Marian Ander-
sen.
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman
spoke on the subject of harmony and 
order. When the Lord has any message
to reveal He gives it to his appointed ser-
vants, showing that the Lord has his
appointed servants, showing that the
Lord has his authority on the earth. He
inspired his servant Joseph to organize
this society and the good these sisters are
doing is immense. After singing and prayer
Conference adjourned until 2 oclock.
		(To be continued.)


Mme. Rolland, a Belgian, attained her
104th birthday on June 12. She is cred-
ited in Belgium with being the only living
witness of the battle of Waterloo; having
been seated on a wall in the neighbor-
hood of the battlefield during a part of
the engagement. Last year, when the
French monument to Waterloo heroes
was unveiled on the battlefield, Mme.
Rolland was alloted a place of honor as
the most noteworthy spectator present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE DREAMER.

BY GRACE INGLES FROST.

Near a bend of the river
On a bright summer day,
A winsome maid with heart so gay,
Sits idly dreaming the hours away.

Her hand she trails in the silvery stream,
That plays an accompaniment to her dream,
While from trees above her blossoms bright,
Are falling upon her in showers light.

And the perfumed breath of the warm June breeze
That's playing such havoc with flow'rs and trees,
Is fanning her face so wondrous fair,
And plays "hide and seek" with her golden hair,

There she sits thro' the long bright day,
Dreaming love's golden dream alway;
And never a cloud in the sky appears,
To warn her that troubles come with years.

Oh, beautiful dreamer! dream on! dream on!
Build your castles in sunny Spain!
With never a thought of the waking hour,
Which brings the clouds and rain

Others have dreamed as thou dost today,
'Neath summer skies and fragrance sweet,
Only to waken and find that life,
Brought them trials which all must meet.

For "Life is a stage where all play a part;"
Tho' we may dream we awake with a start,
To find that in dream-land our fancies have
	strayed;
And those castles we builded, in dust now are laid.


PEDDMOOR HALL,

SUTTON OLD FIELDS, WARWICK CO, ENGLAND.

	Oh, how I love that old hall;
	With its trees so tall,
They seem to have hidden from view,
	And its mantle of green,
	Formed of ivy, is seen,
Growing there as it formerly grew.

	Then around, the old moat
	Is still there to denote
That it claims all the honors of time;
	And cuckoo's soft song,
	From its bushes among,
Demands a fond tribute in rhyme.

	Not only around
	Is beauty there found,
There are blessings that gladden within;
	Peace and welcome are there,
	For the stranger to share,
Far away from the busy world's din.

Oh, it brings to my mind
	All its memories kind,
That time nor the world can efface;
	For a parent once dear
	May have helped to rear
The woodbines that bloom round the place.

	The old patriarch, too,
Has passed from our view,
Whose goodness ennobled on earth;
	He was gentle and kind,
And has left none behind
Who love not to speak of his worth.

	May the happy old dame
	Through life pass the same;
And live long in the hall to be blest;
	May her old age be crowned,
	By her children around,
With bliss as she glides to her rest;

	And may those who survive,
	At the same fate arrive,
When time on their heads brings its snow,
	May mirth and good cheer
Be ever found there,
And each child in affection still grow,

	Blest, perfect retreat,
	l never can meet
With charms so abounding as thine;
	For fruit, flower and tree,
	With the blithe snmmer bee,
Seem all in thy praise to combine.


Oh, I love that old hall,
	While the leaves o'er it fall,
And the green ancient walk is there still;
	And the summer house seat,
	In the garden so neat.
May the Peddemoor children long fill.
FRANCES HANBON.


[Column 1]
AN INDIAN SCARE.
		A TRUE STORY OF EARLY DAYS.
	One beautiful Sabbath morning I think
in February, in 1853, in the then small 
town of Nephi, Utah. Nearly all of the 
adult inhabitants were in the log meeting
house.  A peaceful spirit pervaded the 
place. We were listening to a fine dis-
course by the President, Elder Joseph L.
Heywood, I was leaning my head against
the side of the house when I heard the 
terrible war whoop which rang down from
the snowy side of old Mount Nebo, where
the Indians, had their winter wickeups, I 
heard the clatter of many horses' hoofs, 
and ere the people were aware of trouble
the Indian warriors surrounded the house.
The five windows and the door were 
crowded with the dark angry faces, their
eyes fierce, and visage stern, no pity
lingering near, for the defenceless wor-
shippers; guns and arrows were pointed
at every one in the house, and apparently
every moment was our last; some of the
men that sat with their backs to the win-
dows, were a little nervous, but Pres. 
Heywood's calm voice quieted them. "Sit
still brethren don't move. You are as safe
there as anywhere in the house," he said.
	The Indian Chief Old Batteus threw
open the door, and strode to the fireplace,
turned his back to the fire, and faced the 
audience, who astonished and quiet, sat
awaiting results. One resisting motion,
one note of alarm, and death awaited us.
But there was hope, in the Father in
Heaven, that He would preserve us from
the fury of the untamed savages.
	The old chief, erect and defiant, com-
menced dancing, and singing the "Death
Song." He threw off his blanket, still
singing and dancing and one article of
clothing after another, until the naked
savage was brought to a stop by President
Heywood springing forward, picking up
his dirty breech-clout, handed it to the 
angry owner, and calmly commanded
him to put it on. Old Batteus obeyed. 
The dance was stopped. The song was
silenced. That one act of our President,
with the blessing of the Lord saved us
for had Batteus gone on unmolested, at
a raise of his hand, and a pitch of his
song, the signal would have been given,
for the Indians to fire, and none could 
have escaped, hemmed in as we were.
	The peace of the Lord was with us.
We felt His care was over us. A talk
ensued, and after hours of talk and inter-
pretation, the old chief confessed that he 
was angry, because the night before, a 
sub-chief had been appointed by the Mor-
mons, chief over him, and he didn't like
it. He wouldn't have it so. He was Big 
Chief, and Big chief he still would be.
	"He is not Chief over you" was told
him, "You are the Big Chief, and he is
the Little Chief" "we told him to teach 
his Indians not to fight, not to kill, not to
steal, nor to lie, that is all." "He was
not to meddle with you. He is not over."
	The heart of the old fellow softened
The wild savage relented. After all he 
was still Big Chief, with no one over him.
He demanded tobacco. President Hey-

[Column 2]
wood said, "Hand out your tobacco
bretheren," Every man that used it, pull-
ed it out of his pocket, and parts of plugs
were handed over from one to another
until all they had was given to the Inter-
preter, who gave it to the chief, who took 
it with a grunt of satisfaction.
	"Quinch in bungo ash nida mina" was
the next demand.
	"Who has an ox they will give Bat-
teus?" asked President Heywood.
	"I have a white ox he can have" an-
swered one of the brethren.
The young Interpreter told Batteus
that he could have an ox in the morning.
	"I will send for it he said," He was
pacified. He could have a big feast. He
went out, called off his warriors, and they
rode rapidly away to the camp, on
the side of Mount Nebo.
	How thankful we were that our lives
were spared, and that the ordeal was
over.
	Some even laughingly said "Batteus
wanted an ox, and thought he would
scare us to get one."

EMILY B. SPENCER,
CANNONVILLE, UTAH


THE AMERICAN CHURCH, BERLIN.

	Situated on Motz Strasse, in the new
and fashionable quarter of Berlin this
church is known far and wide. It is a
fine commodious structure, of American
style. The Rev. Dr. Dickie, a typical
American gentleman, is pastor. He was
very proud of his countrywomen of the 
Congress, and, on the occasion of the
speaking of Miss Susan B. Anthony. Rev.
Anna Shaw and Mrs Sewall,showed them
marked courtesy.
	These women as brilliant speakers per-
haps, are unequalled in the world, and 
here, where such a thing perhaps before,
had never been seen, they received all
but an ovation.
	After the close of the Congress, Miss
Alder, and the writer, attended Sabbath
School in the Church, and were court-
eously conducted to the bible class. Soon
another lady from Utah entered, to
whom we bowed. At the close of the
session when we moved back into the 
body of the hall, the writer detected the
above mentioned lady pointing at her,
while speaking to a third lady. School
out, the writer was introduced to that
lady, who abruptly said: "Where are 
you from?" "Utah" was the reply. "Gen-
tiles, I hope," she exclaimed. "We are
thankful to say, Mormons" we said as
in one breath. "I am sorry," she re-
marked, "And trying to be good ones,"
the writer rejoined. "I am glad of that"
the lady said, mistaking "good" for
our meaning "faithful"
	Her voice betrayed her bitter feeling,
yet had she not been informed of our
faith she would have been glad to wel-
come, sisters from a far off land.
	We remained for Church, where any
American can attend, "without endanger-
ing their standing at home. It is well to 
consider all things, "that we may hold
fast to that which is good." So we thought
as we wended our way home.
	The heritage of Christ has followed
through the generations, and as then,the
question is asked, "Can any good thing
come out of Nazareth?"
	LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]


Woman's Exponent. 

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.
Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 
	Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s[-]cond-class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY AND AUGUST, 1905

[Column 2]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT


APOLOGY AND EXPLANATION.

	The editor feels an apology, and also
an explanation is due to the patrons and
subscribers of the paper on account of 
the lateness of this and other recent
issues. 
	We are frequently told that excuses are 
made for this by our sisters who travel as
missionaries to those at a distance, on
the plea of "so much to do." The editor
desires to say, that the real reason is a 
financial one. The matter rests with
the agents and sisters who are interested
in sustaining the paper as the organ of
the Relief Society, to assist in collecting
money due and to procure new subscrip-
tions. It seems useless to reiterate what 
has been so often said before that every
President of a Relief Society is expected
to use her influence in its interest and to 
appoint an agent in the Society where
she presides to canvass for the paper. 
	We are very sorry, more than sorry 
grieved even for those who are prompt in
their payments, but we desire to say too
that the EXPONENT is more than a news-
paper, it is history, recording matters
pertaining to woman's work in the
Church, and it goes abroad to many lands
and the islands of the sea.


A NOTABLE ANNIVERSARY.

	Notwithstanding the announcement
made in the May number of our paper,
and the more elaborate notice in June of
the birthday anniversary of our honored
President of the Relief Society there
still remains much to say and "The half
can never be told," in this little paper,
but we feel it is due to the University of
Provo that did such great honor to Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith to make more
than a passing mention.
	We do feel that the Professors, teach-
ers and students of that famous institu-
tion were more than generous in the
ovation given our beloved veteran sister
and mother in Israel, and that the
example they have set in thus showing
reverence to one of Zion's most cele-
brated women, one of Utah's heroines
will be a blessing and credit to that great
University of learning.
	A committee with carriages met the
party at the station and escorted the en-
tire company to the University grounds
where the ladies and gentlemen all were
most courteously recieved and welcomed.
President Joseph F. Smith and President


John R. Winder were honored guests 
and about twenty-five others. We were
first ushered into the Devotional room 
where the students meet for morning
prayer, and President Winder offered an
eloquent prayer, from there we went to 
the large Auditorium where the students 
were assembled, the entire assemblage
rising to their feet to welcome their Pres-
ident and guests, President Joseph F.
Smith, President of the Faculty of the 
University.	The exercises under the
direction of Prof. Geo. H. Brimhall were
altogether of an elevating nature, Presi-
dent Jos. F. Smith's address was espe-
cially brilliant and abounded in excellent
testimonials of love, honor and esteem
for the lady in whose honor the college
had convened. The musical exercises
under the direction of Prof. Anthon H.
Lund were melodiously uplifting.
	After the morning exercises we repaired
to the large and commodious hall of the
Gymnasium, where an elaborate banquet
was spread that had been prepared and was
served by the class of Domestic Science.
The afternoon in the Tabernacle and the 
reception in the evening were very de-
lightful and surely Provo did herself proud
in honoring the guest of the day and her
followers.


The evening of the second day of fes-
tivities when the Hon. W. N. Williams 
and his good wife entertained their "Aunt
Bathsheba" and her friends was partic-
ularly pleasant. President Joseph F. 
Smith spoke of the Elect Lady in the 
highest terms of praise and commenda-
tion and we all said Amen, other speak-
ers there were who were profuse in words
of love and esteem, and several brought 
precious gifts and tokens in appreciation
of friendship and sisterly love. 
	Delicious refreshments were served by
the amiable daughters of the host and 
hostess and there was some fine singing by
young ladies and a band of Juvenile boys
serenaded the veteran sister with sweet
music on the outside. 
	The sisters of the General Board pre-
sented their beloved President with the 
new edition in large type of the Book of 
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants
the Secretary had the honor of saying a 
few loving words for the Board when 
making the presentation.


[Column 1]
		A DAY OF WONDERS.
	There are so many important events
transpiring nowadays, that one is at a 
loss to decide what material is best or of
the most consequence to write about. 
Newspapers, journals and magazines are
filled to overflowing with the wonderful
doings, inventions and discoveries of the 
present day.  Verily it is an age of won-
ders and the fulfillment of prophecy. 
	I think one may be safe in saying that
there never was so much travel and traffic
before as now, this present year will
mark in this respect more going to and fro 
in the earth, and wandering up and down
than there has ever been in the annals of 
history. People are seeing everything in 
the way of scenery and countries, cities
and towns are in this way becoming fam-
iliar to the masses even. Whether the
information gained will result in perman-
ent good remains with the future, but

[Column 2]
seriously speaking, there must be greater 
enlightenment, and it cannot fai to be be-
neficial in some ways, in comparing notes
and methods on various subjects and in 
the exercise of greater charity as one
comes to know conditions, circumstances
and environments. 
	Yet withal there are many things to 
deplore, notwithstanding all the progress
made, all the knowledge gained, yet na-
tions still persist in fighting each other, 
and refusing negotiations of peace, there-
fore one cannot help thinking there is
still much to be done before the dawn of 
the Millennial day.
	There certainly is in the outlook from 
our point of view a better prospect for 
uniting forces for any great world-move-
ment than ever before, and this is hope-
ful. One of the good points made by 
President Roosevelt in his recent address
to a delegation of Trades Unionists was, 
"You must remember that arbitration 
isn't everything. You must also consid-
er conciliation."
	When the second Hague conference 
convenes, which will be called by Presi-
dent Roosevelt it is said, as soon as the 
Eastern war ends, the measures taken 
will not only extend the use of arbitration
but consider the nature of conciliation. 
Another measure to be proposed is "The
formation of a World's Advisory Congress
composed of delegates of all the nations
to meet every two or three years to con-
sider international questions and to rec-
commend international laws."
	This is a very large subject, but it is 
one of the most intense interest and 
women have considered this question of
internationalism ever since, if not before
the great International Council of Wom-
en was organized in Washington in 1888. 
It is to the writer a very fascinating sub-
ject. Some women have grasped a few of 
the elements of this subject of inter-
nationalism, and many more might if they 
would give some attention to it. We are
apt to talk of the betterment of the whole
world, and we try to teach patriotism to 
the children iu the schools, and to the 
grown up people in the various organiza-
tions, and it don't require a very great de-
gree of college education or learning to 
master the subject of world-wide inter-
nationalism; a little geography, history, 
psychology, some every day logic and a 
desire for justice for all mankind would
he necessary, to be sure, but the vast
amount of good that has been accom-
plished already by the international so-
cieties among women proves what great
results might come from similar move-
ments of both men and women. The 
Peace and Arbitration International Con-
gress is perhaps the best illustration we
have to offer at the present time, and the 
Peace meetings held under the auspices
of the National and International Coun-
cil are helping to educate the people in
this one important line of international-
ism, and this spirit will eventually come
to be a power for good against the evils
that prevail in the world.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry and Mrs. Phebe
Y. Beatie returned some time since from
their trip to Portland where they attend-
ed the N. A. W. S. A. Convention, and 
many of the entertainments given by the


Portland people in honor of their guests. 
Mrs. Dusenberry made an address at one
of the sessions, and was warmly ap-
plauded, and afterwards invited to a seat
on the platform by the International Pres-
ident, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. Mrs.
Dusenberry remained in Portland after
Mrs. Beatie's return, and attended the
Conference of Charities and Corrections,
to which both ladies had been appointed
by Gov. Cutler. Mrs. Dusenberry re-
ports enjoying the meetings of the Con-
ference very much, and having had ex-
cellent opportunities of speaking and re-
porting the work of the Woman's Relief
Society among our people, and being
treated with the greatest kindness and
courtesy; and that she has learned much
by knowing of other methods of benevo-
lent work, and has sown some good
among those with whom she conversed,
at any rate removed much prejudice from
the minds of those who had been blinded
by false statements and misrepresentation.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


(Column 1)
A TRIP TO PORTLAND WITH THE PRESS
CLUB,
	It would be hard to find a jollier party
than the Utah Press Association on their 
recent trip to Portland and the Fair.
	On Monday evening, June 19th, we 
took the train for Portland. There were
in the party old people, young people, 
and middle aged people, mostly newspaper 
men and women.
	All day Tuesday we were speeding 
through Idaho with its great plains of
sage brush and here and there patches 
of green. We followed the course of 
the Snake river a great deal, and had a 
beautiful view of the American Falls in
that river.
	Wednesday morning we were all up
quite early, as we wished to see the sun
come up from behind the mountains and 
behold its first rays on the Columbia
river, and I can assure you it was a 
beautiful sight. As we sped along to- 
wards Portland, following directly the 
course of the river, we passed immense 
fishing wheels; the Columbia river is 
famous for its salmon, and all the im-
mense wheels we saw are used for catch-
ing that fish.
	We left the course of the Columbia at
a point about three hours' ride from 
Portland, and passed through a beautiful
country, very tall mountains on both sides
covered with pines and ferns, with every
here and there beautiful little waterfalls
bounding down their sides. We crossed
the Willamette river at East Portland
and arrived at the Union Depot at about
10:30 a.m.
	Immediately on our arrival in Portland
we were met by a committee, who ten-
dered the party (through Mr. D. P. Felt,
who was in charge,) all the privileges of 
the Fair.
	Most of the party stayed at the Ameri-
can Inn—a fine hotel inside the Fair
grounds, and here the Utah people were
very well treated; indeed, we were shown
courtesies wherever we went, Mr, D. P.
Felt in his pleasing way, arranging many
good times for all of us.
	The Fair grounds are ideally situated,
being on a beautiful lagoon surrounded
by mountains covered with pines and
ferns; the grounds themselves consisting
of sloping lawns and beautiful flower-
beds—for Portland, as you know, is noted
for its roses.

(Column 2)
	We visited and admired all the Fair
buildings, the Utah building being visited
oftenest, I suppose as Mr. Spencer Claw-
son kindly invited the Utah people to be 
perfectly at home in this building.
	The mineral exhibit from Utah is es-
pecially fine, as is also the educational
exhibit.
	As our days were spent in visiting the
different buildings, our evenings were
spent on the Trail, enjoying immensely
the many shows it has to offer.
	Besides seeing the Fair and all its at-
tractions thoroughly, we enjoyed a num-
ber of other trips.
	The Utah party with the members of
the California Press were the guests of
the Portland Board of Trade in a trip
up the Columbia river to Collin's Springs
and return. This was indeed a fine
trip; on both sides of the river rose ma-
jestic mountains covered with pines, and 
on one side were numerous waterfalls.
We passed through the Locks, that won-
derful piece of engineering which cost the
government such an immense sum of
money, and which made it possible for
steamers to pass through a portion of the
river otherwise unnavigable.
	As we would not reach our destination
till the afternoon, delicious refreshments
were served on the steamer, and when 
we reached Collin's Springs an elegant
dinner was served to over two hundred
people.
	This little resort (Collin's Springs)
would be an ideal place to spend the
summer facing the broad Columbia river
and having at its back the high fir-clad
mountains.
	Ont he return trip we had an impromp-
tu program, the Utah people taking their
part and showing their talent in a musical
as well as in an oratorical way. We arrived
at our hotel about midnight, after having
spent one of the most enjoyable days im-
aginable.
	This trip was up the river, and through
the courtesy of the Astoria and Columbia
River Railroad officials we were enabled
to take a trip down the river through
Astoria, past the mouth of the Columbia
and out to Seaside on the Pacific coast.
	The scenery all along was beautiful,
and when we reached Seaside we went to
the Moore hotel, which is situated on the
beach, looking out on the Pacific ocean.
A few of our party indulged in the surf-
bathing, but as it was rather cold most of
us were content to wander along the beach
and pick up shells.
	The street-car system in Portland is 
very good, and the street-car company
took the Utah party on a sight-seeing trip
all along the city, a courtesy which was
greatly enjoyed and highly appreciated 
by all participating.
	The Press Association of Utah certain-
ly had a fine trip; on every hand we were
well treated; just showing our Utah badg-
es seemed to insure our courteous treat-
ment and make us welcome.
	Especial thanks are due to Mr. D. P.
Felt, who had the party in charge, for
the able way in which he took care of
everybody and everything, treating every
one alike and making each one enjoy
everything possible to the utmost.
	Nothing could be more pleasant for a
summer outing, rest, or wedding trip than
a visit to Portland and the Fair and sur-
rounding country.
	Louise [handwritten]
	L. B. C.


R. S. REPORTS.

PANGUITCH STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of the
Panguitch Stake convened in Escalante,
May 25, 1905, commenced in the usual
manner; Counselor Alice J. Cameron pre-
siding. Six wards were represented.
Sisters Minnie Loveland Snow and Jo-
sephine West, who were visiting the
Primary conference, both spoke encour-
agingly to the sisters; Sister Alice J. Cam-
eron gave a few closing remarks. Con-
ference then adjourned until some future
day, and closed in the usual manner.
	This is a very short report, but on ac-
count of so many meetings to be held at
that conference we were only allowed
one short meeting.
	MARGARE H. HAYCOCK, Secretary.

ENSIGN STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of En-
sign stake convened on Friday, June 30,
1905, the first annual conference and
was held in the 12th ward chapel with a
large crowd of workers in attendance.
	Members of the stake presidency also
of the General Relief Society Board were
present.
	The musical numbers were very fine.
Instrumental selections by Sisters Kate
Romney Stewart and Lizzie Thomas
were much appreciated, as were the vocal
solos of Margaret C. S, Hull. Elma Young
and Olea shipp. 
Sister Augusta W. Grant gave an excel-
lent talk on Japan, after which Sister E.
B. Wells spoke of the magnitude of the
Relief Society work, including nurses
work, etc. Counselor Annie T. Hyde
talked about the Relief Society bureau of
employment for the protection of young 
girls coming from the country to work.
	Remarks were made also by Dr. M. C.
Roberts, Hon. W. W. Riter, President
Richard W. Young, Counselor Joseph S.
Wells, and many others. The speakers
eulogized Relief Society work and the
value of organized effort for charity.
	A substantial luncheon was served to
the congregation, between sessions by the
stake officers. 
ANNIE KAY HARDY, Sec.

EMERY STAKE.
The Emery Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at Cleveland June 6,
President Mary A. Sorenson presiding.
There were present all the Relief Society
stake officers and Sisters P. Y. Beatie and
P. Smith from the General Board. Pres-
ident R. G. Miller, Bishop Oveson and a
number of other brethren were also pres-
ent.
	There was also a good attendance of
the sisters from the several wards, ten
Relief Society branches being represent-
ed. Excellent reports were given by the
respective presidents.
	Two lectures from the mothers' work
were given by Sisters McIntyre of Price
and Ruth McRae of Huntington, entitled
"Reverence" and "Girlhood."
	Brief, though very instructive, address-
es were given by Pres. Mary A. Sorenson,
Sisters Beatie and Smith, Bishop Ove-
son, President R. G. Miller, and Sisters
Maria Allen and Maria Guymon on sub-
jects relating to Relief society work.
	Sister Emelia Jones of Castledale ren-
dered a beautiful solo and the singing


[Column 1]
furnished by the Cleveland choir was ex-
cellent.
	There was an officers' meeting held
during the noon hour, where the sisters
asked questions relating to relief society
work, which were all answered by the 
visiting sisters from the General Board.
	The conference was a decided success
in every way.
	The weather was pleasant, and the 
Cleveland sisters were very sociable and 
hospitable and entertained their visiting
friends royally.	
			MARIA ALLEN, Secretary.
		PIONEER STAKE.
	The Pioneer Stake Relief Society held
its first annual conference June 9th, 1905, 
Sister Annie Wells Cannon presiding. 
The eleven wards of the stake were all 
represented and the remaining session
was devoted to reports given by the pres-
ident or counselors, and remarks were
made by Stake Counselors Lucy Smith
Acomb and Rebecca H. Pettit, after which
Pres. Wm. McLachlan gave some very 
good  advice to the sisters about their
work.
	At noon the stake officers served a 
luncheon for the presidents and guests.
	The guests were President McLachlan
and wife, President Bathsheba W. Smith,
Sisters Emmeline B. Wells, Annie T. 
Hyde, Ida Smoot Dusenbury, Phebe Y.
Beatie, Margaret Romney, Rebecca E.
Little and Carrie S. Thomas. 
	The afternoon session was exceedingly
interesting, all the visitors making excel-
lent remarks pertaining to the work of
the Relief Society.  Sister Hyde spoke
particularly about the Relief Society em-
ployment bureau and the care of young
 women who come to the city for work.
Sister Dusenberry spoke very interest-
ingly about children and the mothers' 
work.  Sister Beatie dwelt upon the 
nurse work and the great good the Relief
Society has accomplished in that line,
Sister Wells dwelt upon the duties of the
officers, talked reminiscently of Relief
Society work in the past and gave most 
interesting information of our present
work. The other sisters also spoke inter-
estingly of our labors in a general way,
but as we desire to give as far as possible 
the remarks of our honored and much
beloved President Bathsheba W. Smith
we have curtailed the report of the other
addresses on account of space. Sister 
Smith spoke twice, first at the beginning
and then at the close of the afternoon
session and her remarks were listened to 
with rapt attention and much appre-
ciated by the sisters and brethern pres-
ent.
Sister Smith said she had left the Tem-
ple to be with us today.  This was un-
usual, but she looked forward with pleas-
ure to this meeting.  Instructed mothers
to bring up their children with a knowl-
edge of the Gospel; study the Book of 
Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants.
Prayed that every sister might be blessed
in Relief Society work, and that the Spir-
it of the Lord might always be with us. 
Amen.
	At the close of our conference she ad-
dressed us again as follows:
	"I never forgot the testimony I re-
ceived when I saw the Prophet, I knew
he was looking at me and I never forgot
it, because I knew I was a good girl.

[Column 2]
He said, 'Geo- A. got the right stick
when he got her.' I was so pleased to 
think he was satisfied with his cousin's
choice.
	"I always went to meeting. I always
do now. I hardly ever miss a Sab-
bath.
	When I had my endowments Brother
Joseph was there. Sister Emma talked
to us a good deal on the subject of plural 
wives. I believe that was as true as any
principle the Prophet taught, and I be-
lieve it yet, but for the time it is taken
away from us. I don't think the Prophet
or any of our leaders ever taught us any-
thing wrong. I have always been pleased
that I had my endowments when the
Prophet lived. He taught us the true
order of prayer. I never like to hear a 
sermon without hearing something of the 
Prophet, for he gave us everything, every
order of the priesthood, and when he was 
taken away we had Brigham Young.
Many had a testimony, a strong testi-
mony of him. I remember when the 
Prophet wanted to get rid of Sidney 
Rigdon as a counselor, how Hyrum, his
brother, plead for him and Joseph kept
him, although he was ambitious and not 
true. I would like to have every one
read the Book of Mormon. The plates
are in safe keeping and some day we will
have the rest of it—it is a true record,
we can see how faithful we should be not
to lose our faith in the Gospel. I don't
know any more to say only to have all
faith in Joseph and his successors to the 
present time. I have the book of the Re-
lief Society Sister Eliza kept, and I am
very proud of it. We were taught in our 
first Relief Society to look after the 
morals of the young sisters, to be good to
the poor and needy and I think we did
so and we were good to the poor. The
sisters flocked to our meetings every
week, and the Prophet Joseph met with
us as long as he could. When he was in 
trouble the sisters got up a petition to the 
governor of the state for him and he was 
most grateful. He said he had given the 
sisters instructions that they could admin-
ister to the sick and he wanted to make
us, as the women were in Paul's day, "A
kingdom of priestesses."
	We have the ceremony in our endow-
ments as Joseph taught. Amen.
	Sister Cannon regretted there were not
more present, as we have had a great
spiritual feast. Thanked our visitors for 
the many encouraging and beautiful
things they had said. Conference ad-
journed until Dec. 9, 1905, after singing,
"We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.
Benediction by Sister Pettit.
			CLARA L. CLAWSON, Sec.
		ONEIDA STAKE
	MORNING SESSION.—The Annual Con-
ference of the Relief Society of Oneida
Stake convened in the Academy, June 3, 
1905. Pres. Louisa B. Benson presiding. 
Present on the stand: five members of 
the Stake Board, Clarissa S. Williams of
the General Officers, and Elizabeth S.
Wilcox a Relief Society missionary from
Salt Lake City, Counselor Jos, S. Geddes,
and High Counselor Jno. E. Dalley and
James R. McNeil.
	Singing--"Come let us anew" etc.
Prayer, James R. McNeil. Singing—
"How firm a foundation" etc. Roll called. 
Fifteen wards represented ninety-nine

[Column 3]
members present. Minutes of morning
session of conference held Nov. 26, 1904
approved. 
	Pres. Louisa B. Benson reported the
Stake as being in a satisfactory condition
Said the sisters were laboring earnestly
to care for the aged and sick, and that
the officers were much encouraged.
	Statistical and financial report read
and approved. General and Stake officers
unanimously sustained, with the follow-
ing changes in the Stake board.—Elsie
B. Alder, Sec. and Treas. having moved 
away, was honorably released with a vote
of thanks. Phebe A. M. McNeil was sus-
tained as Sec. Linda N. Benson as re-
cording Sec. and Jennie W. Rallison as 
Treas.
	Lucy Cutler sang "God bless my kind
old Mother." The following branches
were reported—Cedarville, Preston 1st
Ward, Fairview, Dayton and Preston 2nd
Ward.
	Clarissa S. Williams said, "Work dili-
gently and the Lord with hless you. Our 
Pres. Bathsheba W. Smith sends love and 
greeting. We are pleased with your re-
ports. We appreciate your efforts to at-
tend your meetings, spoke in regard to
fairs. Suggested that the sisters make 
childrens clothing and keep articles for
sale, it will be renumerative and perhaps 
interest some who are negligent and care-
less; as mothers our first duty is to our
children.
	Reports continued: Oxford, Clifton,
Franklin, Preston 3rd Ward, Weston and 
Mink Creek.
	Counselor Jos. S. Geddes said—"The
Lord is bringing to pass his purposes in
the earth. *	*	* Encourage your
husbands and sons in the performance of
duty.
	Singing "O Jesus the giver" etc. Ben-
diction Bro. Jno. E. Dalley. 
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing—"High
on the Mountain tops" etc. Prayer, Bish-
op Hugh S. Geddes. Singing—"O ye
mountains high" etc. Minutes of after-
noon session of previous conference ap-
proved."
	The following branches reported—
Whitney, Preston 4th Ward, Glendale
and Riverdale. Summary of all reports. 
The branches throughout the Stake in
good condition; Mother's work successful
in all excepting two places; poor, sick, 
aad aged well cared for; grain being 
stored in all wards. Sisters Lucy Cutler
and Florence Hadlock sang a duet, "Only
Remembered."
	Sister Wilcox spoke of nobility of work
in caring for the unfortunate. The intro-
duction of Mother's Work in a systematic
way proving a great blessing to all. Those
who attend duties in R. S. Work are 
strengthened for daily labor, find joy and
energy, their attendants; endorsed Sister
Williams suggestion of having ready made 
clothing on hand.
	Piano Solo, Sister Eva Johnson.
	Elder Wm. Preston of Weston Ward
spoke of the blessing the Relief Society 
is to Bishops, Asked all to become
active workers, thought we were a blessed
people. Spoke of means and energy ex-
pended in preaching the Gospel to all. 
	Clarissa S. Williams encouraged all in
daily labors. Spoke of the power of kind
words and trouble caused by harsh ones.
Said no one should accept a duty she
could not or would not fulfill. Encouraged


[Column 1]
all to read a little each day also to patron-
ize the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. All church
works will broaden and strengthen the
mind.
Elizabeth Carver, Stake Pres. of Pri-
mary Association spoke of Primary work
its nobility, and necessity. Encourage
mother's co-operation in this work.
Teaching the daughters of Zion in regard
to marriage was also spoken of. 
Counselor Solomon H. Hale spoke of
woman's sphere, also of girls marrying 
men who used tobacco, liquors, etc. Lat-
ter-day Saints make good husbands and
wives. 
Pres. Louisa B. Benson made a few
closing remarks. Conference adjourned
for six months. Singing "Our God we
raise to Thee" etc. Benediction Elder
Chas. D. Gosland.
PHEBE A. M. McNeil, Sec.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of the
Box Elder Stake met in the Brigham City
tabernacle, June 6, 1900. The morning
meeting, President Susannah P. Booth 
presiding. Present besides stake Relief
Society officers, were President Oleen N.
Stohl and Counselor Horsley, General
Board were Counselor Annie T. Hyde
and Susan Grant. Singing, "Oh, ye
mountains high." Opening prayer, Presi-
dent Oleen N. Stohl. Singing, "We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet."
Minutes of previous forenoon confernee 
read and approved. Roll called, all but
five wards represented. 
President Booth felt pleased to meet us
again in conference, said, "We will have
an officers' meeting this morning. We
are always pleased to have our sisters
from Salt Lake to meet with us, as we
were not all able to go to Salt Lake to
Relief Society conference. We shall en-
joy their presence and good counsel.
Pres. A. C. Jensen, reported Mantua;
Charlotte W. Boden reported the 2nd
ward; Sister Sarah M. Fredal, president
of Bear River City, reported; Sister 
Thompson, of Elwood, reported; Sister
Sophia Anderson reported Bothwell ward. 
Sister Mary E. Ward, president of Wil-
lard, reported. President Lydia E.
Watkins reported the Beaver ward, Pres-
ident Urania C. Nelson reported the
Thatcher ward. 
All these sisters made excellent reports
especially in reference to saving grain,
caring for the needy and the mothers'
work.
The stastical report of the Box Elder
Stake Relief Society was read by Secre-
tary Annie J. Wixom.
Sister Annie T. Hyde first counselor to 
President B. W. Smith, was pleased to
meet with the sisters and to listen to the
good reports, and spoke of the unity
which existed amongst us, liked to hear
of the spiritual feelings of the sisters, said
we were like unto Christ, going about
trying to do good, thought we could not
appreciate the good the Relief Society
was to us, said we ought to have mission-
aries appointed to visit strangers who
come amongst us, to extend to them a 
helping hand, to make them feel at home. 
Spoke on her work in the bureau of in-
formation, how whenever she can she al-
ways tells of the Relief Society and the
work accomplished, and said we had thir-
ty-three thousand women in our society.

[Column 2]
We should use a kind influence in our
families, and our homes to keep them to-
gether. Said a few words on the circu-
lar letter, which was read at our Stake
conference, pertaining to the employ-
ment bureau. Spoke on the wheat prop-
osition, said we should have a proper se-
curity on the loaning of our wheat, said a 
few words in reference to our mothers'
work, said she hoped we were conducting
it under the Relief Society, thought the
stake board meeting should be held once
a month, made a few remarks on con-
ducting a bazaar. 
President Booth said a few closing
words, meeting adjourned till 2 p. m. 
Singing, "Our God we raise to Thee. 
Benediction by Brother Crawford. 
2 p. m. Singing, "Redeemer of 
Israel," etc. Opening prayer by Lucius
A. Snow. Singing, "Earth with her ten
thousand flowers," etc.
Minutes of previous afternoon confer-
ence were read and accepted, roll called
of associations not represented in the
morning, three responding. 
Sophia Larson, president of East Gar-
land, Sister Snow, of West Garland, re-
ported.  Rebecca Thorn, president of
Perry, reported.
Sister Susan Grant was very pleased to
meet with us, had been edified and
blessed in the instructions and listening
to the reports. Felt it was a great priv-
ilege in mingling with the sisters in the
different stakes, had been connected with
the Relief Society for many years, Felt 
she could not give any more new instruc-
tions. But we met together to encour-
age one another, had been in the Church
all her life and knew the Prophet Joseph,
felt to testify that he was a prophet of
God. Thought it was nice for younger 
sisters to take hold and help the older
sisters in the Relief Society work. Felt
that the sisters who did not get out to
meetings needed spiritual food and the
teachers would be the ones who could go
and visit them, and thus get the spirit of 
that home; said, let us be broad in all
things, we must attend to our duties if 
we want our children to attend their duty.
"we can be guided by the Spirit of the
Lord if we don't neglect our prayers."
Related how her son was blessed while
sick by administration. "Let us be faith-
ful and true to every responsibility placed
upon us." Said a few words in regard to
the storing of grain. If we are alive to
our duties the Lord will bless us. 
A duet entitled "Mother," was sung by 
Sisters Emma and Sadie Stohl, accom-
panied by Maud Sorensen.
Sister Annie T. Hyde felt it quite a re-
sponsibility to speak to the mothers, but
prayed the Lord to give her utterance
that she might say something to the sis-
ters to encourage them. Spoke of con-
fidence in one another in our homes. Said
the Lord has promised to bless us if we 
put our trust in him, knew that our fath-
ers that have passed away to the other
side are watching over us. Spoke a few
words on criticism, said how careful we 
ought to be that our children might not
hear coarse jests or anything that is not
good for them. Took great pains in
telling strangers about the purity of our
young people. Gave many good instruc-
tions on the care of our children, encour-
aged the mothers to take part in the
mothers' work. Said Sister Smith sent

[Column 3]
her love to all the sisters and wished them
to be united. Had been interested in
the reports given; and asked the bless-
ings of the Lord upon all.
Stake Counselor Lucius A. Snow had
been pleased with the teachings given 
this afternoon. Wished the sisters to
read one of the revelations in the Book of 
Doctrine and Covenants referring to the
sick, wished we had faith enough to fol-
low out the instructions given in that
revelation, we must cultivate faith, he 
felt now that he could acknowledge the 
hand of God in everything that transpired
around him. Asked the Lord to bless us
with His Spirit.
Pres. Susannah P. Booth was pleased
to say that all the associations had been 
represented, if not in person by letter, as 
three of our associatsons were represented
by letter, there being 21 associations in 
all. Thanked the sisters who had come to
visit us, and who gave us such good in-
structions. Asked the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
Counselor Louisa E. Peters said a few
words in regard to holding our meetings. 
Conference adjourned for six months. 
Singing "Come, come ye Saints." Bene-
diction by Counselor Clem Horsely.
LETTIE FORSGREN, Cor. Sec. 
NEBO STAKE.
The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Nebo Stake convened in the 
Second Ward meeting-house at Payson, 
at 10:30 o'clock, July 14, 1905, president
Lilyus C. Page presiding.
After the usual opening exercises the 
President welcomed the brethren and 
sisters and expressed her regret at not 
having visitors from the General Board
present but felt that if they depended
upon the Lord they would have a good
time.
Sister Elizabeth Wall of Santaquin re-
ported the society of that ward in good
condition. Sister Mary A. Price of Gosh-
en reported the society of that ward;
Palmyra Society by President Annie C.
Holm; Sister Carrie Holt of Spanish
Fork 1st ward was glad to report that 
society. People are good to donate and 
care for the poor.
Sister Mary S. Zabriskie, Pres. of the
society in Eureka, hoped to learn to love
the people of Nebo Stake as they did 
those of the Juab Stake. We are labor-
ing under great difficulties. Have a great
many poor and try to help them in every
way we can.
Amanda Hansen of Payson 1st Ward
sang, "For Sale, A Baby."
Sister Forsey of Mammoth Ward felt
proud to report the society of that ward.
A sister reported the society of Silver
City Ward, they are a very small ward
have no teachers, but Pres. and Counsel-
ors visit once a month and try to help the
poor. 
Sister Lula Erlandson of Payson First
Ward gave a recitation. Bro. Jonathan S. 
Page, Pres. of Nebo Stake said it is the
means of gaining strength to attend the 
Relief Society conference, related an in-
cident in missionary experience. Sister
Dixon requested all to stay and have
lunch, meeting adjourned until 2 o'clock.
Afternoon session meeting reconvened
at 2 o'clock, Sister Lilyus C. Page pre-
siding.
Sister Martha D. Simons felt that it was


the greatest pleasure of her life to be as-
sociated with the Saints of God. Said the
Relief Society is one of the greatest or-
ganizations that have ever been organized.
Sister Fannie B. Simons of Payson, 2nd
ward society recited "Darkins Night."
	Stake Counselor Hyrum Lemons said
the Relief Society is one of the greatest
organizations we have, spoke on sustain-
ing the Priesthood and those in authority
over us in the various organizations.
	Song, "Dora Dell" by three young girls
from Payson, 2nd Ward.
	Sister Lydia Soefner just home from 
the mission field esteemed it a great priv-
ilege to be at a Relief Society conference.
believed the Lord blesses the mothers in
Zion, related a prophecy given by Presi-
dent Brigham Young regarding the moth-
ers in Zion, thought it would be the great-
est blessing to become a mother, had at-
tended the Relief Society in the mission
field, she rejoiced in the gospel more than
anything else, its system is perfect and
we should live it more strictly in our
homes, prayed for the Lord to especially
bless the mothers in Zion.
	Bro. Smith Tanner of the High Council
felt pleased to be here. Spoke of moth-
ers in Zion and molding the character of
the young.
	Bishop Jesse S. Taylor of 2nd Ward of
Payson felt very pleased with the re-
marks of the sisters and all who had taken
part, related some stories he had read
also spoke of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and fhe organization of the Relief Society,
felt to ask the Lord to bless us all. Bishop
Justin A. Loveless of Payson 1st Ward
could not be present at the morning ses-
sion felt sorry, had enjoyed the confer-
ences in the past. Spoke on the work of 
the Sisters of the Relief Society in caring 
for the poor and sick, compared them
with the labors of the Savior. Prayed the
Lord to bless all the Relief Society work-
ers. Also spoke of the nurses class, Re-
lief Society Bureau of imployment for 
young girls who go to Salt Lake City to
work.
Sister Page said it is time to bring our
conference to a close, thought we had had
a good time today, thanked the choir and
all who had taken part. The choir sang,
"For the Strength of the Hills we bless
Thee." Benediction, Alexander Cowan.
	MARY F. BROWN, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US 

[Column 2]
			IN MEMORIAM. 
	Tribute to the memory of Sister Lorine O,
Davis, who died June 15th, 1905. Sister Lorine is 
gone, those words brought sorrow to many hearts
in the little town of Toquerville; Sister Davis was
the wife of Philetus G. Davis, both were members
of this ward. Sister Davis was visiting her daugh-
ter Mrs. Lyman Dodge, of Silver City, Utah, had
been from home only a short week when the sad
news came of her death, funeral services were held
at Silver City, her casket which was beautiful was
covered with hot house flowers presented by her
many friends. The body reached her home here
on Sunday morning June 18th where a large con-
gregation assembled to pay their last tribute of re-
spect to the departed:
	The speakers were; Counselor H. Naegle, Elder 
W. H. Slack, and Bishop Wm, A. Bringhurst and 
each spoke of the many good qualities of the de-
ceased. 
	Sister Davis was born in Groveland, Mass., May
15th, 1842. Was the daughter of the late Patriarch
Samuel B. Hardy and wife of St. George, and 
came with her parents in President Wilford
Woodruff’s Co,, to Utah in 1850.
	She was a member of the Relief Society and at
the time of her death was a teacher and appraiser
in the Society; she had been a member of the Ward
choir for many years, she was the mother of 7
children, 4 of whom preceded her to the great be-
yond, three daughters with 17 grandchildren are 
left to mourn her loss; and the husband the com-
panion of her married life is left alone to receive
comfort in the thought, that in Christ all will die,
so in Christ may all be made alive. Bro. Davis,
await for time is short. Prepare to meet her in the 
land of peace and happiness.
	Be it Resolved, by the members of the Toquer-
ville Relief Society, that we extend to the family
of the deceased our sincere sympathy.
	Resolved further, that a copy of these resolutions 
together with the above tribute be printed in the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and a copy be sent to P. G. 
Davis at Silver City, Utah.
					R. J. SPILSBURY, Pres.
					E. W. LAMB, Sec.


Obstetrics and Nursing.

	DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS
Will commence her class in Obstetrics and
	Nursing on Monday, October 9, 1905.
For further information communicate with
	Dr. Roberts at 79 C Street, Salt
	Lake City, Utah. Telephone 2002.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


HONOR TO A VETERAN WOMAN!
	The Relief Society sisters of the Sandy
ward gathered at the home of Sister Har-
riet Wilson, in honor of her 92nd birth-
day, July 9.
	The heart of the aged veteran was
made to rejoice with the honors that
were bestowed upon her by those good
friends and neighbors; her long life has
been spent in usefulness and in activity;
she still possessse every faculty of mind
and body, having retained her excellent
eyesight so long, never wearing specta-


cles, can see to thread her needles, and
read fine print.
	Speeches were made and hymns were
sung, and there was a bounteous supply
of the good things of the earth to satisfy
all who were present and make the oc-
casion memorable. The guest of honor
pronounced the blessing upon the food,
her words were filled with inspiration. A
short sketch of her life work and her de-
votion to her religion, mentioning some
of the sacrifices she has made for the
Gospel, was given by her daughter; this
closed the happy meeting of a time long
to be remembered, the guests vieing with
each other in wishing the honored lady
joy and peace as long as she remains in
the flesh; these blessings only come
from our heavenly Father through our
obedience to His commandments. H. W.
	The EXPONENT extends loving congrat-
ulations to this dear lady whose life has
been lengthened out and whose days are
full of peace and gladness.


MARY A. LIVERMORE.
			(Continued.)
	"Mrs. Livermore was well-born, her
parents were happily mated. At family
prayers at night and morning her father
always prayed, "Bless the united heads
of this family."
	Mrs. Livermore read the Bible through
every year from the age of seven until she
was 23 years old, and remembered it so
well that she was called, "The Family
Concordance."
	In her very early years she developed
a gift for reading and composition, and
before she was ten had written anniver-
sary hymns and children's stories that
were published.
	In her childish play she would conduct
church services, sometimes arranging
sticks of wood in the woodhouse to repre-
sent a congregation, and preach to them
by the hour, till she was faint with
emotion. Her father is quoted as saying
"If that girl were only a boy I would ed-
ucate her for the ministry, she has it in
her."
	Her father did not foresee that she
 would yet speak to larger audiences than
could be reached from any single church,
and on a much greater variety of subjects
than are usually given from the pulpit.
	Mrs. Livermore as a child suffered
much from the stern Calvinistic theories;
the belief that the majority of mankind
were destined to everlasting damnation
cost her days and nights of tears. As
Lucy Stone first studied Greek and Latin
to find out whether the texts on the sub-
jection of wives were correctly translated,
so Mrs. Livermore first studied languages
to search into the correctness of passages
on eternal damnation. She finally de-
cided in her own mind that this doctrine
was not taught in the Bible, and this gave
her peace, but it was long afterwards. 
The death of a dear sister about whose
salvation doubts were expressed, brought
her distress to a crisis.
	(Cantinued in next Number.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

