Vol. 34						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, MAY, 1905.						No. 1


CONTENTS.
Anniversary Celebration at Provo...............		1
Relief Society Seattle, Washington.............		2
In Memoriam............................................		2
MOTHER'S WORK:—Parowan Stake,.............	2
	St Johns' Stake..............................			2
Relief Society Reports................................		3
Relief Society Conference—Weber Stake......	4
Mary A. Livermore................................			8
EDITORIAL:—An Important Event..........		4
POETRY:—The Hill of Death, Louisa Lawson.	1
	Washingtons Birthday, Virginia Frazer
	Boyle..............................................		8


THE HILL OF DEATH.
BY LOUISA LAWSON.
No downward path to death we go,
Nor through dark shades, or valleys low,
But up and on o'er rises bright
Toward the dawn of endless light.

Not in the lowlands can we see
The path that was and is to be;
But on the height, just where the soul
Takes deeper breath to reach the goal.

There we can see the winding ways
That we have journeyed all our days;
Then turn and view with spirit still,
The gates afar beyond the hill.
The Dawn, Australian.


[Column 1]
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION AT
PROVO TABERNACLE.
THE ELECT LADY.
	We have met this afternoon to do
honor to one of God's noble women,
President Bathsheba W. Smith and to
congratulate her on the anniversary of
her eighty-third birthday. And may she
live long to enjoy many more such oc-
casions surrounded by her many friends
and co-laborers in the work of the Relief
Society, it being the first organization
for the benefit of women and done by
the inspiration of Our Heavenly Father
through His chosen Seer and Prophet
Joseph Smith. We realize the responsi-
bility of this position is great at the pre-
sent time as the President of all the asso-
ciations, which now extend around the
world to every country where the Gospel
has been preached and branches of the
Church organized. We delight to honor
her in this position and continually up-
hold and sustain her with our faith and
prayers. We also wish to honor her as
a wife and mother in Israel the duties in
which she has so faithfully performed of
being a true friend, a wise counselor to
her husband and his family a help meet
in very deed and may we follow her noble
example that we may all be worthy to
associate with her in the world to com[-].
PROVO, UTAH, MAY 1ST, 1905.
TO OUR DEAR AUNT BATHSHEBA:—
	This day I desire to celebrate with my

[Column 2]
sisters in Provo, with love and esteem,
the elect lady, our beloved and honored
Sister, Mrs. B. W. Smith, for your worth
and valor in the cause of the women
of the Relief Society and humanity at
large, I have known you nearly 40 years
true working, side by side with your hus-
band who was a tower in this church and
you are still working in the Temple to
further the work of God in the Earth.
There are 40 years since I have known you
	At your post as wife and friend,
Now you are advanced in years
	At a work that'll never end.
We have met today in Provo
	To celebrate your natal day,
And I wish you many blessings
	That the Lord can well display.
PRESIDENT, MARY JOHN.
DEAR SISTER BATHSHEBA SMITH:—
	May the Lord bless you with health
and strength the remainder of your life,
that you may continue to enjoy the same
sweet spirit and have the good influence
over your co-laborers that has always
made you dearly loved by all, is the wish
of the Lake View Relief Society.
DEAR PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH:
	We, of the 6th ward Relief Society,
Provo, do also honor you on this your
natal day, both for the position you oc-
cupy in one of the organizations of the
Kingdom of God and also for the faith-
fulness, love and dignity with which,
though now past four score years and
more, you discharge the duties thereof.
	We do honor you as a pioneer in Relief
Society Labors and indeed in God's work
here on earth, and as helping to carry out
His plans for His children.
	Well do we know that the closing years
of life's day will be like the sunset which
follows a long warm bright summer's day,
rich with associations, mellow with happy
memories, glorious and beautiful with un-
adulterated faith and trust, and unshaken
testimony of the gospel.
	May God continue to bless and prolong
the life of one, who has given us such an
example of courageous, active, humble
and unselfish womanhood.
	What joy we find in following thy
womanly example. Pure religion and un-
defiled before God is this, "To visit the
fatherless and widows in their affliction
and to keep himself unspotted from the
world." Nobly do you live that pure re-
ligion.
SPRINGVILLE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Blest indeed are the daughters of Zion
in having such a noble woman to lead us
as Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. She has
shown us how beautifully gentleness and
firmness harmonize. May she live long
and still be the inspiration to us in the
days to come that she has been in the
past, is the sincere desire of the members
of Timpanogos Relief Society.
DEAR SISTER BATHSHEBA SMITH:
	May you live as long as you desire life,
that we may hear your gentle voice in
words of exaltation and faithful testi-

[Column 3]
mony of the truthfulness of the Gospel
that we are called to labor in, is the ear-
nest desire of your sister in the Gospel.
PERSIA C. BUNNELL.
PLEASANT VIEW WARD, April 30, 1905.
You have passed through great trials
	In days of yore,
You've been tested and proved
	Faithful and true;
May your years yet number another score,
	Is the wish of the sisters of Pleasant View.
DEAR AUNT BATHSHEBA:
	You are the only living member of the
first organization of the Relief Society.
Please impart to us humble toilers at the
sick bed, as well as with thimble, needle,
and thread, some of the inspiration and
encouragement received at the fountain
head from the lips of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
EMILY G. CLUFF.
DEAR SISTER SMITH:
	We have met in honor of thy natal
day to give thee loving greeting, to hold
in friendship's clasp thy hand, which has
for many years labored in the great
cause of charity, to look into thine eyes,
and see the light of faith which shineth
there, to listen to thy voice which ever
giveth words of hope and encourages us
to greater deeds of love.
	Thine hath it been the privilege to be-
hold the coming forth of the great latter-
day work; thou hast seen the Church of
God established upon His footstool nev-
er more to be thrown down; thou hast
partaken of its blessing and hath shared
in its sorrows.
	Thou wert present at the organization
of the Society which we represent, and
of those eighteen, thou alone art living.
Thou hast seen this work grow from that
humble beginning unto the greatest char-
itable organization in the world.
	In thy early maidenhood thou gavest
thy hand to one of God's anointed and
with him stood in high and holy places.
Thou wert unto him a true and faithful
wife, and he ever praised and honored
thee.
	Many were the privations which thou
endured, and sorrow sometimes fell upon
thee, and thy mother heart wast torn
with grief; but God comforted thee in
thine afflictions and caused thee to re-
joice that thy daughter was spared thee,
and in her and her children thou hast
been blessed.
	Thou hast ever been a laborer in the
field of life. In earlier days thine appa-
rel and that of thy family was the work
of thine own hands, and thou didst grace
thy humble home with patience, love and
womanly dignity.
	Thou hast labored long in God's holy
temple, and hath beheld the beauty and
glory of His great work.
	Thou art the president and leader of
the women of the Church of God, and
hath given unto us an example of all that
is truest and purest in womanhood. Thou
hath taught us in the ways of love and


charity, and hath encouraged us in all
that is best and noblest. 
Thy fourscore years and three hath
touched thee but lightly with the finger
of age. Time hath whitened thine hair
but not dimmed the lustre of thine eye, 
hath not deadened thine intellect nor
cowed thy spirit; but thy years are ripe
with the experience that brightens and
purifies. Thy days have been filled with
good deeds, and thou hast earned the
crown of glory which God hath promised
to the faithful.
MARY E. SHEPHERD ASHWORTH.
Provo, Fourth Ward.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


RELIEF SOCIETY, SEATTLE, WASHING-
TON. 
Minutes of the organization of the Se-
attle Branch Relief Society, convened
May 2, 1905.
The meeting was held at the residence
of C. H. Fritsche, with C. H. Frtische
presiding.
Opening song, "We thank Thee, O
God, for a Prophet."
Prayer was offered by Elder E. W.
Johnson; continued by singing "Guide
us, O Thou great Jehovah."
Opening address by Brother C. H.
Fritsche.
Officers elected for the Society were as 
follows;
President—Sister Estella Milligan;
Counselors—Sisters Christine Peterson
and Agnes Fritsche; Secretary and Treas-
urer—Eva Kinder; Assistant Secretary
and Treasurer—Cora Hawley.
Remarks were made by the sisters and 
brothers concerning the Relief work.
Donations to the Society for the pur-
pose of buying books and other things
necessary amounted to $4.50.
A business meeting was held May 9, to
elect teachers and attend to other busi-
ness matters pertaining to the Society.
Meeting was brought to a close by
singing "How firm a foundation." Bene-
diction was pronounced by Elder J. J. 
Hendricks.
                   EVA KINDER, Secretary.


IN MEMORIAM. 
Jane R. Bennett, who recently passed away, was 
born in Shottan, near Howarden, Flintshire, North 
Wales, June 22, 1824. She embraced the Gospel 
Dec. 1850, and came to Utah in 1863, with her 
faithful husband and her children. 
She was a woman of much faith and charity, be-
ing a left a widow for 35 years, she was in deep sym-
pathy with the widows and fatherless, had always 
a kind word to speak to all she met, and imparted 
her substance to those in need. She had indeed 
overcome the things of earth and her only desire 
for means was to help others 
She was called to the bedside of nearly all the 
sick, her gentle touch would soothe the aches 
and pains; her willingness to do good was one of 
her many virtues. Sister Bennett acted as coun-
selor to the president of the Relief Society in Hol-
den, Utah for 25 years, the office of which she held 
at the time of her death.  We so miss her in all 
our associations and gatherings, as her sweet face 
was always there to encourage us in well doing. 
Much could be said of the good Mother Bennett 
did, and the counsel and encouragement she gave, 
But we feel her mission was completed and the 
Father called her with the greeting, "Well done, 
my handmaiden, thy labor has been accepted. 
enter into my kingdom." 
Mother Bennett, how we miss her 
When grief and sorrow come our way,
Or when in need of her wise counsel 
To give us courage day by day.


She was ever near to bless us, 
Ever ready to impart 
Love and kindness, hope and courage, 
To the trouble, aching heart. 
But we feel she's with the ransomed, 
Worthy of a crown most rare, 
May we follow her example
That we some day may meet her there. 
NANCY M. ASHBY, Pres., 
EMILY MCKEE, Sec. 
Holden. 
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
Whereas our Father in heaven in His infinite 
wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst one of 
our esteemed sisters, Lilian Broberg, a beloved 
daughter of Sister Joanna Broberg, one of the effi-
cient officers of the 17th Ward Relief Society, and 
whereas in the demise of Sister Lilian the ward 
has lost a lovely young woman and a faithful 
Latter-day Saint, therefore be it. 
Resolved, that we the members of the 17th 
Ward Relief Society extend our heartfelt sympathy 
to the bereaved family in their hour of sorrow.
That we ever cherish the memory of our de-
ceased sister and regard her virtues as worthy of
emulation.
That a copy of these resolutions be presented 
to Brother and Sister Broberg and one be placed 
on the records of the 17th Ward Relief Society. 
FIDELIA JACOBS, Pres., 
L. Y. MERRILL, Sec.


MOTHER'S WORK. 
PAROWAN STAKE. 
Our Home. 
Lesson I. (a) The foundation of the 
Home. (b) Training and education of 
the boy and girl by the parents, prepara-
tory for further home building. (c)
Choice of companions and associations 
before marriage. (d) Marriage. (e) 
Marriage a divine law. (f) The right 
place to marry. 
Lesson II. (a) Unity and love in the 
home. (b) Reverence in the home. (c)
Confidence between husband and wife. 
Lesson III. (a) Order and system in 
the home. (b) Economy of time and 
means in the home. (c) Cleanliness and 
care of personal appearance in the home. 
Lesson IV. (a) Beautifying the home 
inside and out. (b) Adornment of dining 
room and table. (c) Acquire a taste and 
habit of making that which we possess in-
to useful ornamentation for the home. 
Suggestions from members how this 
can best be done. 
Lesson V. Inmates of the home. (a) 
Family organizaiton. (b) The father, his 
authority, position and rights. (c) The 
mother, her authority, position and
rights.

Lesson VI. (a) Forgiveness in the 
home. (b) Charity for each other's im-
perfections. (c) Self control.

Lesson VII. (a) Self denial. (b) Grief, 
consolation and hope. (c) Cheerfulness 
and kindness. 
Lesson VIII. (Hospitality. (c) Social 
duties. (c) Domestic amusements. 
Lesson IX. (a) Care and respect for 
the aged. (b) Sickness an opportunity 
for training children to love and useful-
ness. (c) Gratitude and appreciation. 
Lesson X. (a) Domestic manners.
(b) Provide our children with amuse-


ments. (b) Enjoy the society of your 
children as time passes. (d) Parents 
should share their children's amusements.
(e) Extend sympathy in childish troubles.)

Lesson XI. (a) Evils of backbiting to 
ourselves and our neighbors. (b) Bring 
wayward children to our homes and en-
courage them. (c) Parents in making 
promises to children should make their 
word as good as their bond.

Lesson XII. (a) Family devotion. (b)
Reverence for the Sabbath day by the 
family. (c) Reverence for the Priest-
hood in the family. 

Mamie O. Holleman.


ST. JOHNS STAKE. 

LECTURE 1. 
1. - Visiting the Sick.

Deeds of kindness, done in love, 
Diamonds are in settings rare;
In the realms of bliss above, 
These the gems the blessed wear. 

(a) Effect of cheerful company in the 
sick room. (b) Suitable offerings; re-
freshments; flowers, etc. 
No. 2—Assisting the Poor. 
"It is more blessed to give than to receive"
"Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor 
he also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard;"
Prov. 21. 13.

(a) Providing labor. (b) Providing social 
pleasures for the poor, the widows and
orphans.

No. 3.—Reverence for the Aged. 
(a) Supplying their needs. (b) Light-
ening their labors. (c) Cheering their 
lives. 
"It is the secret sympathy, the silver link, the 
silken tie, which heart to heart and mind to mind, 
in body and in soul combined." 
No. 4.—Proper Care of the Dead. 
(a) Clothing. (b) Washing and dress-
ing body. (c) Properly laying away. 
No. 5.—Encouraging the Downcast. 
"Words of love from hearts sincere, 
In this world of care and woe, 
Are like springs in deserts drear. 
Giving life where'er they flow." 
(a) Showing the goodness of God. (b) 
Teach that "Hope is the gem of exist-
ence." 
No. 6—Intellectual Moral and Religious 
Culture of Women.
"We are saved no faster than we gain knowl-
edge, for knowledge is power." 
LECTURE II.
Marriages and its Advantages. 
"Domestic happiness, thou only bliss, 
Of Paradise that hath survived the fall." 
Ref. Gen. I: 27; Doc, and Cov. Sec. 
49: 15,16; Gen. 2; 18; I Cor. 11: 11, 
"Oh grant my prayers and let me go 
Thy toils to share, thy path to smooth, 
Is there a want, a wish, a woe 
Which wedded love can fail to soothe?"


(a) Choice of a companion.

	"If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God,
that giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not and it shall be given him.-- Jas 1:5. 

"Love rules the court, the camp, the grove, 
And man below and saints above,
	For love is heaven and heaven is love."

	(b) Qualities a man should look for in a 
woman. "A prudent wife is from the 
Lord." Faith in God, religious nature,
love of children, industrious, virtuous,
economical and cleanly. (c) Qualities a 
woman should look for in a man. One 
who does not use liquor or tobacco in any
form. Industrious, truthful, moral, self-
reliant, kind disposition, unselfish and re-
ligious. (d) Superiority of Temple over
civil marriages. Ref. Doc. and Cov.,
Sec. 132: 15-22; Mark 10: 9.

	LECTURE III.
	Children, Their Desirability.
	Ref. Gen. 1:28. (a) The desire for 
children a God-given attribute to woman.
Ref. I Sam, Chap. I. (b) No true hap-
piness without children. (c) One of the 
greatest gifts of God to man - children.
Ref. Gen. 15:5; Gen. 48: 16. (d) Limit- 
ation and prevention of families contrary 
to the commandments of God, and a 
curse to mankind. Ref. Gen. 1: 27.

	LECTURE IV.
Hygiene in the Home.
"The household is the woman's realm
	Love's magic wand her sceptre;
	Husband's and children's love her throne,
	And duties well performed her crown."
	I. Personal cleanliness. (a) Of body,
the house of the spirit. (b) Bathing nec-
essary to health. (c) Influence of a clean 
body on the mind. "They who desire
clean thoughts, must first have clean 
bodies." 2. Cleanliness of the home. (a)
Proper care of closets. (b) Why keep soiled
clothing out of the house? (d) Care of 
floors and carpets. (e) Sweet dish clothes 
and clean dish towels. 3. Sleeping ap-
partments. (a) Why should we have an 
abundance of fresh air circulating through 
the house day and night? (b) Why is 
sunlight very necessary in bed-rooms? 
No. 4 Beds. (a) Airing of beds. (b)
Why should all vermin be kept out of
beds? (d) Why should quilts be light?

	LECTURE V. 
Hygienic Food. 
"In what thou eatest, seek from thence due
	nourishment, not gluttonous delight."
	I. Bread. What are the effects of gra-
ham, white, rye, yeast-powder, and soda 
bread  on the system? Which is prefer-
able? How best prepared? No. 2. Ce-
reals - best way to prepare whole-wheat,
crackers, wheat, rice, oatmeal, etc. No.
3. Meats. Word of Wisdom. Ref. Doc.
and Cov., Sec. 89. Beef, mutton, pork,
poultry and fish. Give best way of prep-
aration to be most wholesome and nutri-
tious. No. 4. Vegetables- value as food.
Effects of eating between meals. Effects
of pastry. No. 5. Fruits- why essential 
to health? No. 6. Substitutes for meat,
beans, peas. Explain their value as food. 
</div><div>LECTURE VI. 
Reverence.
	I. Reverence for places of worship. (a)
Greeting. (b) Whispering. (c) Laugh-
ter. (d) Eating. (e) Throwing things on 
floor, such as paper, flowers, nut shells,
fruit peelings, etc. No 2. Cleanliness of 
house. (a) floors. (b) Windows. (c) 
Curtains. (d) Seats. (e) Leaving room.
(f) Children running about room. No.
3. Sacrament. (a) Care of dishes. (b)
Color of table clothes. (c) Care of table 
cloth. (d) Sacrament cup should only be 
used for sacrament. 
E. L. S. UDALL, Pres.,
	DELLA F. SMITH, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
		R. S. REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of 35th conference of the Re-
lief Society of Uintah Stake of Zion, held
at Naples Ward, May 30, 1905. Presi-
dent Sarah M. Colton presiding.
	Sister Emma Woodruff spoke of the
labors of teachers in the Relief Society
and the responsibilities that rest upon
them; also of evil speaking one toward
the other, and of honoring the Priesthood.
She referred to the young, especially the
young men that are sent on missions,
that they should be taught to trust in the
Lord, and urged the parents not to neg-
lect their children in sending them to
Sunday School, Religion Class and Prim-
ary, and in teaching them to pay their
tithes and offerings and to observe the
Sabbath day.
	Sister Hattie Harker felt thankful in
having such a beautiful place to meet in.
Spoke of the duties of the sisters in con-
nection with the brethren. Referred to
the example of the Savior, thought we
should guard the morals of our young
people and be guarded against all evil
surroundings; gave instructions to the
secretaries in their duties.
	The choir sang. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m. Benediction by Patriarch
Nelson Merkley.
	Afternoon session. President Sarah
M. Colton presiding.
	An essay on "Neglect of Duty" by May
Bartlett, was given. Sister Mary J. Har-
der reported Glines Ward and Sister
America Orser, Jensen Ward, both these
wards are doing good work. Mountain
Dell ward not reported.
	President Bennion, Sister Annie K.
Bartlett, Sister Hattie Harker, Sister
Emma Woodruff, all spoke words of en-
couragement to all present. President
Colton made a few closing remarks and
thanked all for the services they had ren-
dered.
	The next conference will be held at
Jensen. Singing. Conference adjourned
for three months. Benediction by Coun-
selor R. S. Collett.
	PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec'y.
		LIBERTY STAXE.
	The semi-annual conference of the
Relief Society of the Liberty Stake of
Zion convened June 8, 1905. In the Sec-
ond Ward meeting house, President An-
nie S. Musser presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing "We thank
thee, O God, for a prophet." Prayer by
Sister Mary Mair, followed by a solo by

[Column 2]
Sister Eva James. Roll called, each ward
responding. Minutes of previous confer-
ence read and accepted, also the statisti-
cal and financial report for the year 1904.
	President Musser welcomed the sisters,
and spoke a few words of encourage-
ment. Favorable reports were given by
Presidents Squires, Anderson, Maycock,
and Chamberlain, of the First, Second,
Third, and Eighth wards respectively.
	Miss Shipp rendered the solo, "The
Lord is my light."
	President Musser introduced Sisters
Emma Carter, Elizabeth Higgingbotham
and Martha Nowlan, who had been ap-
pointed as stake missionaries; each ex-
pressed her desire to perform the duties
required of her, and keep the command-
ments of God.
	Counselor Z. V. Eardley said a few
words, felt that it was truly good to be a
Saint, and that there was work for all to
do.
	Adjourned until 2 o'clock by singing
"Our God, we raise to Thee," etc.
	Benediction by Sister Grace Anderson.
	Afternoon session, 2 o'clock.—Com-
menced by singing "O say what is truth,"
etc. Prayer by Counselor Philip S. May-
cock. Singing, "Redeemer of Israel."
Minutes of the afternoon session of the
December conference was read and ac-
cepted. Counselor Eardley presented
the names of the General Board, also
names of the Stake Board, and all were
unanimously sustained.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith said
she was the only one remaining who was
present at the organization of the Relief
Society; related many incidents in the
early history of the Church, and expressed
her great pleasure in assisting the poor.
Counselor Hyde spoke of the great and
good work performed in the temple for
the redemption of the dead.
	Sister Hull favored us with the solo en-
titled "Resignation."
	Sister Jennings spoke of the progres-
sion of the Savior, saying He had set the
example, and for us to follow in His foot-
steps and continue in the good work.
Asked the mothers to keep a watchful eye
on the daughters of Zion, organize class-
es to instruct and entertain them, shield
them from outside influence, also to in-
struct them in the domestic side of life.
	President Musser desired that the sis-
ters of the Relief Society devote one day
a month to temple work for the poor.
	President Hugh J. Cannon felt that the
Relief Society had a great work to per-
form; would render us assistance and en-
couraged us to do all the good we could.
	Counselor Philip S. Maycock said our
work should make us all pure, noble,
charitable, and everything that is lovely;
we should all follow in the footsteps of the
Savior.
	Counselor Arnold H. Schulthess felt
well repaid for attending our conference;
assured us our work was fully appreciated;
thought we should strive to add continu-
ally to our good works.
	Sister Hull favored us with another
beautiful solo.
	President Musser thanked all who had
helped to make our conference a success.
Adjourned for six months by singing
the Doxology.
	Benediction by Counselor A. H. Schul-
thess.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

				Woman's Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake C ty, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s[-]cond-class matter.

		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1905


[Column 1]
	AN IMPORTANT EVENT.
	This number of the paper commences
the thirty-fourth volume of the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT;—just thirty-three years June
first of this year since this little messen-
ger made its advent into the world of liter-
ature, a newly-fledged offering to the
women of the Rocky Mountain region,
and a surprise to many here, yet a most
welcome token of woman's enlighten-
ment and uplifting.
	In February, 1870, the women of Utah
had the privilege of equal suffrage given
to them, and it seemed necessary that
they should have an organ of communi-
cation from one to another to express the
fulness of joy that comes with great
privileges and opportunities. There are
still, however, many among the people
of the outside world who think Mormon
women have no method by which they
express their true feelings, and are igno-
rant on all the great questions of the day
upon which other women are so well in-
formed. It would be amusing, if it were
not such a serious matter, to hear how
women of the world speak of Mormon
women, who, if they were not so blinded
by prejudice,  they could scarcely help
knowing, that every avenue is open to
the women of the Mormon Church to
advance along every and all lines of
s[-]udy and research, and of active occupa-
tions quite as much so as in the world
outside; our people travel hither and
thither, and are in constant communica-
tion by means of railroad traffic, steam,
etc., telegraph and telephone, with
cities and countries, near and afar off.
	There are probably as many books sold
in Utah and adjacent states and territo-
ries among Mormon people as those of
other churches, and even as of other
states where fewer Mormons dwell. The
Mormon women are decidedly progres-
sive, actively so in the strict sense of the
word. When the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
was first issued there were only two wo-
men's papers in the West and very few in
the East, the Woman's Journal of Bos-
ton, founded by Lucy Stone, is now in its
thirty-sixth year. It is the only one of
its kind in the East that has survived so
long, of the few that have been started
since, and it has gone through some very
hard struggles. The New North-West, pub-
lished in Portland, Oregon, was started in
1869 but has been discontinued for some
years. The Golden Dawn, in San Fran-
cisco, begun about the same time as our
little paper, only lived a few years.

[Column 2]
	Since the EXPONENT came into exist-
ence there has been one or two wo-
man's papers started in Denver, but they
only lived a brief period, we are sorry to
say. The Woman's Tribune, founded in
Washington, D. C., has struggled along
quite a number of years, and now Mrs.
Colby, the editor and proprietor, has
moved it to Portland, Oregon.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT was the first
paper of its kind in the Rocky Mountain
region, a fact of which our people should
be justly proud, and the sisters should
make an effort to maintain it in a way
appropriate to the great body of women
it represents.
	In the beginning of this new volume
there should be an increased interest in
making it more than ever before, the re-
pository of precious gems of history and
events in the lives and deeds of the wo-
men who have made, and are making
history every day. To do this it is essen-
tial, as in every other enterprise, to have
means, and to  be prompt in payments is
always the best method of making any
business a success.
	One sister, whose letter came today,
calls the EXPONENT  a "precious gem;"
she says, "I can hardly keep house with-
out it." If many others felt as she does,
there would be a great change in its ac-
tual appearance and value. Let us hope
for this material benefit through a larg-
er subscription list and a greater inter-
est in its increase of numbers through
the efforts of the Relief Society of-
ficers, as well as the agents, and to
those who have talent to write we wish
to say, cultivate that gift, that you may
use it for the good of hundreds who
may read your articles, and also that you
may help produce a class of reading that
the Latter-day may with safety
and profit put into the hands of the pub-
lic, that will represent them truthfully.
We as a people, and as women, ought to
write better than other people, and not
to be satisfied to do inferior work. To be
sure, we now and then have something
very creditable, but we are not doing the
sort of literary work, that is, our
young women are not quite up to the
high standard in this respect that has
really been expected of them.
	In the past we have talked a great
deal about the material that the lives
and experiences of the Saints would af-
ford to writers, and now it seems these
abundant facts and ideals should be em-
bodied in poems, essays and stories, that
would reflect lustre upon such incidents
as we know could be made memorable
in history. Bishop Whitney has in his
Epic, "Elias," given something so sub-
limely grand to Mormon literature that
it will go down the ages as a masterpiece,
and surely there are others who have
high ideals of poetry and song, and
though they may not equal his excellence
either in verse or history, that is no rea-
son they should not make the effort to
write, and do good, even excellent work.


Miss Mary L. Galpin has been selected
by the Los Angeles (Cal.)  Chamber of
Commerce to represent it at the Lewis
and Clark Exposition at Portland. She
will have charge of the exhibit, and will
give talks on Los Angeles and explain the
country and climate and the advantages
it offers to visitors and settlers.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

			WEBER STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference
of the Relief Society of the Weber Stake
of Zion, held at the Relief Society Hall
Ogden, the 6th day of June, 1905.
	Conference convened at ten o'clock a.
m., President Jane S. Richards presiding.
Singing: "Let Us Pray, Gladly Pray."
Prayer by Bishop Robert McQuarrie.
Singing: "We Thank Thee, O God, for
a Prophet." Minutes of the March Con-
ference were read and approved. Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards addressed the Con-
ference, and made a few opening remarks,
and wished that we had more room, as
the attendance was so large. Sister
Richards explained that the reason why
the Conference was held at this time in-
stead of on Thursday, June 8th (the usual
time) was because President Joseph F.
Smith had been invited to attend the
Conference and could not be present at
any other time than today. A letter from
President Smith, accepting the invitation
to attend this Conference, was read.
	Brother P. G. Taylor addressed the
Conference; felt thankful to meet with
the sisters of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake of Zion; felt it an honor to
meet with the Latter-day Saints; had
been associated with the Relief Society
of the Weber Stake for many years, and
loved all, and his heart went out to all;
spoke of his long acquaintance with and
friendship for Sister Richards, and of the
many years spent by her in the Relief
Society cause; said it was the duty of the
members of the Relief Society to support
her in her position; mentioned his early
membership in the Church, and his ac-
quaintance with the Prophet Joseph, and
closed his remarks by bearing a faithful
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and
asked the blessings of the Lord upon all.
	Sister Richards was pleased to see so
many present; spoke about the Nickel
Fund, and wished this to be kept up, as
the Relief Society is in need of funds with
which to purchase chairs; referred to the
incidents mentioned by Brother P. G.
Taylor, bore testimony to the truth of his
remarks, and said she would like to have
the brethren attend the ward meetings of
the Relief Society as well as the Con-
ferences.
	Counselor Harriet C. Brown was pleased
to see so many brethren present; was
thankful to be able to be present herself
and to see Sister Richards with us, and
said Counselor Shurtliff would not be
able to be present to-day, and closed her
remarks by thanking the Lord for His
many blessings to her.
	Sister Richards introduced Brother
John W. Rigdon, a son of Sidney Rigdon,
who addressed the Conference; he said
he was a late member of the Church,
having joined only last October, but had
had a knowledge of this Church since
the beginning; he related his early life
with the Church, and also related a con-
versation with his father as to the divine
authenticity of the Book of Mormon, and
his father's testimony in regard to the
same, stating that his father's enemies
had made the charge that the Book of
Mormon had been written by him; and
his father declared to him that he had
never seen the book until it was delivered
to him by Parley P. Pratt and two others.


[Column 1]
This conversation occured at a time
when his father did not expect to live
long, and shortly before his death and in
the presence of his wife and daughter;
said that he had been baptized when nine
years of age, but had not been confirmed
a member of the Church at that time,
and consequently did not become a
member until he recently joined the
Church; said he would be 75 years of age
within a few days, and he wished to pass
the remainder of his days as a member of
the Church.
	Sister Adaline Belnap, of Hooper, was
pleased to bear her testimony; said she
was baptized in Nauvoo, and knew
Brother John W. Rigdon there, and pray-
ed that he would remain faithful to the
end; spoke of the early days of the
Church and of the trials of those days,
and of her acquaintance with the Prophet
Joseph, and prayed that we would all be
faithful to the end.
	President C. F. Middleton was pleased
to meet with the sisters in Conference
capacity, and was pleased to hear the
testimony of Brother John W. Rigdon;
said his remarks had reminded him of a
great many incidents in his own life that
had happened during the time of the raid
on the Saints in the city where he lived;
said he had been in the Church all his
life, and was thankful to have had that
privilege; related early incidents of the
Church, and bore a faithful testimony;
spoke of the great blessing that the Re-
lief Society is to the bishops; spoke of
how the Lord had blessed Sister Richards
in her position, and of the great good she
had accomplished; said he knew her
noble husband and honored his name, and
also honored all noble men and women;
he knew Joseph Smith to be a prophet of
God, and also knew that our present
President, Joseph F. Smith, is a prophet
of God, and said that we should uphold
and sustain him in his position, and ex-
horted all to sustain the leaders of all the
auxiliary organizations in the Church, and
asked the blessings of the Lord upon all.
	Brother Sanford Bingham was pleased
to have heard the testimonies borne, and
was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and bore a faithful testimony to
the truth of the Gospel; was glad to see
so many present, and was acquainted
with Brother John W. Rigdon in the
early days, and closed his remarks by
asking the Lord to bless all.
	Brother Walter W. Crane stated that
he believed the testimonies which he had
heard, and said he knew the Gospel to be
true; had known all the presidents of the
Church except the Prophet Joseph; had
faith and confidence in our President to-
day, and had faith that he would lead this
people aright.
	Sister Josephine Farr bore a faithful
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and
was thankful to have had parents who
had taught her these things, and prayed
to be faithful to the end.
	Sister Ruthinda Moench, of Logan, ad-
dressed the Conference; was grateful to
be able to meet with her old friends, ac-
quaintances and workers in the Relief
Society; she rejoiced in the Gospel, and
felt well to see that Sister Richards and
others were able to do their duty; spoke
of a dream which she had heard related,
and closed her remarks by asking the
blessings of the Lord upon all.
	Sister Lucretia Farr was thankful to

[Column 2]
have heard the good instructions that had
been given; was thankful for the en-
couragement received, and felt like con-
tinuing on in the work; reported the
Third Ward of Ogden as being in a good
condition, and asked the Lord to bless
all.
	At this time President Joseph F. Smith,
Apostle John Henry Smith, Brother C.
C. Richards, Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith,
Josephine R. West, Emily S. Richards,
Emmeline B. Wells, Edna F. Smith,
Sister Dusenberry and others entered the
building, the audience singing in the
meantime "Our God, we raise to Thee."
	Sister Richards said that we had the
pleasure of having President Joseph F.
Smith and others with us, the party hav-
ing just arrived, and she thought that, al-
though it was nearly noon, the people
would be glad to hear a few words from
President Smith.
	President Smith's remarks will appear
in the July number.
	Sister Richards: This is Sister Bath-
sheba Smith, President over the Relief
Society in all the world and as I thought
there might be some one of you who
could not be here this afternoon, I wish
her to say a few words.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith: "She knew
very well that I wouldn't speak very long;
I am not in the habit of it. But I greet
you with a happy greeting, and I am real
pleased to meet with you. I know you
are good and faithful and true. Sister
Richards has watched over you so long
that I know you are good, and I feel to
bless you, and to ask the Lord to bless
you, and give you wisdom, knowledge
and understanding, and give you faith in
the Gospel and in each other, and may
you be united in all the things you under-
take to do, and the Lord will bless you
and prosper you in your labors, and give
you faith for the sick and the afflicted and
give you means for the poor and the
needy, that you may fill up your days in
righteousness and in doing good--all these
presidents and their assistants in the Re-
lief Society in this stake. I pray the Lord
to bless you, and give you great wisdom,
and knowledge to carry on your work in
an acceptable manner before the Lord.
May every blessing which your hearts de-
sire in righteousness be yours. I ask it
in the name of Jesus. Amen."
	Singing: "Guide Us, O Thou Great
Jehovah." Benediction by Brother Robert
Gale. Recess was then taken until the
afternoon.
	At 1:40 o'clock p. m. the conference
reconvened, President Jane S. Richards
presiding.
	Singing, "High on the moantain tops."
	Prayer.
	Singing, "Come, O Thou King of
kings."
	Sister Richards: My dear sisters, I am
very glad to think that we have those
with us this afternoon to speak to you
that we have: President Smith and John
Henry and some others, and Sister Smith,
Sister Wells and Sister Dusenberry. We
don't have them every time, and I hope
that the congregation will keep as kind of
quiet as you can in your crowded condi-
tion. I am kind of sorry that there isn't
a little bit more room, seeing there are so
many of us, and the babies are so good
that I believe they will all go to sleep,
and I don't believe they will cry--I am
not going to think so, anyhow--and I

[Column 3]
think we will have a nice afternoon. We
will now hear from Sister Dusenberry.
	Sister Dusenberry:--I feel a little bit
out of place, because I know that you
have assembled to hear President Smith,
and Apostle John Henry Smith and our
Aunt Bathsheba and Sister Wells, and I
feel that they have so many more years
of experience than I have, and that
they can instruct you, and say so many
better things than I can say, that it
is almost too bad to take up your time.
However, I shall not speak but just a
few moments. I want to congratulate
you this afternoon on the beautiful hall
you have, and as I sat here a few moments
this morning I thought to myself, how
many opportunities we sisters have. and
the brothers also, but especially the sis-
ters, and especially those who are partic-
ularly interested in the Relief Society. I
remember just a little while ago there
was a lady, one of the sisters, came to
me, and she said, "I have been called
out so many times," she said, "I am al-
most worn out. I have been sitting up
with an old lady who has been very ill
for some time," and she had been up
with her for some time, and the lady had
just passed away, and there was a great
many things to do; and she said, "I am
so tired," and I said, "Yes, you are; but,"
I said, "you must also realize that you
have just passed through one of the op-
portunities of your life, because, no mat-
ter what you did for that sister--no mat-
ter how kind you were to her--no matter
how many hours you might have sacri-
ficed of your time for her, you were de-
veloping at the time that you were doing
it, and she was doing far more for you
than you could ever hope to do for her."
As I look in the faces of the Relief Soci-
ety sisters I can always see that certain
humility, that cetain sisterly love, that
always makes me feel good; and I can
always see that each sister was dictated
constantly by her conscience, and con-
science is nothing more nor less than the
Sprit of the Lord prompting us at all
times to do the right thing.
	It was only just this morning that I
picked up a little paper, and in this paper
there was a little story of a father who
had had some dispute over some land,
and the other man who claimed the land
had planted it in vegetables and things,
and the man said, "Well, if I can't get
the land, I am going to have that that
grows on it." So when the harvest was
ready, he took his boy there, and he said,
"I will climb the fence and look all
around," and he said, "If I don't see any-
one looking, you come in, and we will
take what is in the garden." The father
got in there, and he looked in front of
him, and to the right of him and to the
left of him, and all around, and he turned
to the boy and he says, "There is no one
looking. And the boy looked to his 
father, and he said. "Father, you have 
forgotten to look up." It was the con-
science of the boy that was speaking; it
was the Spirit of the Lord that was
speaking to the boy, and I thought to
myself, "Therein lies an example for us
all." No matter what little wrong thing
we attempt to do, if we can always keep
in our minds and in our hearts the spirit
of looking up, always looking up. I am
sure if we can follow this we will always
be on the right track.
	As I end, there is a little quotation


[Column 1]
comes to my mind, which has helped me
in my life, and I think it will help you,
and it is a little quotation from Shakes-
peare, wherein he says, “Above all, to
thine own self be true; and it must follow
as the night does the day that thou canst
not then be false to any man.”
	I hope and pray that the Lord will
bless you all, that you may work togeth-
er in harmony, and support your leader,
and the leaders of the Church, and Aunt
Bathsheba—for she needs your support
and your prayers constantly. She prays
for you, she is constantly thinking and
working for you, and I think you are doing
the same for her. May God bless you.
Amen.
	Apostle John Henry Smith: My dear
sisters, I regret that I did not have the
privilege of hearing all of the remarks
that were made this forenoon by the
brethren and sisters who have spoken to
you. It would have given us some ideas
as to the spirit, in a greater degree, at
least, that exists in your meeting in ful-
fillment of the great duties and responsi-
bilities that rest upon you. I scarcely
anticipated this privilege this morning at
half past seven o’clock, but I am pleased
to be here, and was pleased to hear the
remarks that were made by President
Smith this morning, and your president,
and their words of commendation, and in
the remarks that have been made by Sis-
ter Smoot—or Sister Dusenberry, rather,
—in addressing you for a few moments
this afternoon.
	I know of no body of people in this
world to whom greater praise is due than
the ladies who form the Relief Society
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. The membership of that or-
ganization is made up of ladies whose
hearts have been given to the service of
the Master. It is true in all parts of the
world that the ladies are the better ele-
ment of society. The churches of the
world would soon be closed if the relig-
ious sentiment and feeling of the ladies
should abate, and they stop going to
church for about three months. But
among our sisters in all the world there
are none whose opportunities have been
so great, as have the opportunities of the
sistership of the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints. I am not here to
say that you are absolutely better than
your sisters among other peoples and
other religious denominations; but I am
here to say that no more heroic body of
women have ever breathed the breath of
life, than the ladies who compose the
membership of this organization that our
Father has established in these latter-
days. When we think of the conditions
that have been attendant upon your lives,
gathering as your have done from many
lands and from many climes, many of you
reared under different circumstances with
peculiar religious training, your accept-
ance of the truth of the latter-day work,
your being brought together from the
ends of the earth and instructed and
molded under the direction of the proph-
ets of this latter-day dispensation, and
the heroism that has been shown in your
lives, in the fulfillment of the duties and
responsibilities that have fallen to your
lot, commends you to every thinking man
and woman who has noted your labors,
and who has noted in any degreee the good
that has been accomplished by the sacri-
fices (if we can call them sacrifices) that

[Column 2]
you have undergone in the fulfillment of
the destiny that our Father has marked
out for His children in this day. Scarce-
ly a home among the Latter-day Saints
but what has had its bread winner taken
from there and sent into the world to
preach the Gospel, and mother has been
left with her little family to make her way
as best she could, providing for their nec-
essities. and aiding her companion in the 
fnlfillment of the obligation that he
was sent to discharge in the world. Our
sympathies sometimes have gone out in
large degree to the Elders in their fields
preaching the Gospel, but the Elders in
fulfillment of their ministry, in great
measure have passed through most pleas-
urable scenes, in the changing sights, in
the variety of circumstances that have
surrounded them, and in the considera-
tion they have received; while a stalwart
and true wife at the fireside at home,
offering her prayers in his interest, divid-
ing the results of her handiwork with
him, in seeking to provide him some
clothes and a little means to help him up-
on his way, and in the guardianship of her
offspring, and in the effort to impress up-
on their minds the dignity of the work in
which their father was engaged; the na-
ture of the obligation that rested upon
her, with him in seeing to it that, having
been warned of the re-establishment of
the Gospel it become their sacred duty to
warn their kinspeople, their brothers and
their sisters, and their old-time neighbors
and friends perchance, or to any of our
Father's children to whom the glad tid-
ings of great joy had not yet been carried.
When we remember these conditions,
and go into these homes, and when we
meet with you and mingle with you upon
occasions of this character, and remem-
ber the nature of the work that has fallen
to your lot, it may be well said of you, as
it has been said by many a husband
speaking of his wife, or speaking of his
neighbor's wife, or speaking of the friends
and sisters of a district in which he lived,
there are none better; there are none
nobler; there are none truer, molded in
the likeness and image of Mother Eve,
than the homes over which these wives
have presided, whose hearts were given
to their Maker, who have been devoted to
the accomplishment of the divine pur-
poses, the uplifting of their own children
and implanting within them laudable and
proper ambitions and caring in the midst 
of these efforts for those unfortunate ones
that are found in every community, who
need the sisterly and motherly care of
some devoted friend in the midst of their
distresses. 
	Standing before over three thousand
people in the city of El Paso last fall, it
was my privivilege to speak to that body
of people, coming from every part of the
country, and my brethren, some of them;
and upon that occasion I remarked to
those people that no more heroic people
ever breathed the breath of life than the
wives and mothers of the Latter-day
Saints; true in every place; earnest, de-
voted, unyielding, fixed in the establish-
ment of their faith; they had stood by
their homes and protected and preserved
them while their helpmates were away in
the world declaring the principles of the
Gospel, seeking to extend that truth
which was dear to them all.
	I believe this is absolutely true. While
I would not flatter you, or be guilty of

[Column 3]
offering you flattering words, I believe
these are the words of truth; that when
the history of this world shall be written
and the history of mankind shall be put
upon the sacred page upon which the fu-
ture races may look, that the efforts that
have been made in the interests of the
extension of the principles of this latter-
day Gospel, showing the position occu-
pied by our ladies, will be one of the
brightest and best upon the sacred pages
of history. How few, when we think of
it, wben we think of the conditions that
have surrounded them, have failed in the 
fulfillment of that mission! I need not go
away to any other home than to my own
home to bring up in pleasing remem-
brance the conditions of the past, for in
our home we were orphans, so far as
fathers were concerned,, in large degree,
the father ever absent, ever the public
servant, ever in the discharge of a pub-
lic duty: but around the fireside of those
homes were mothers, brave, true, heroic
no mark of infamy has ever attached to
one of their sacred names; but in the
fulfillment of the part that they had ac-
cepted, ministering in the interest and
well-being of the households to which
they belonged, they have remained in
the fulfillment, true and devoted in the
enjoyment of the duties that were im-
posed upon them. And while I speak
thus of my own home and its experienc-
es, as I look around upon the experiences
of others, and know the positions in which
the families of so many were placed, the
trying circumstances that surrounded
them, the efforts so noble and so true
that were made to aid their fellows, to
share their scanty meals, to share their
scanty clothes, to share the light amount
of fuel that was brought into the home,
to help that home so that there should be
no suffering, and that none should receive
hurt, but that all should be blessed and
 comforted, and that these meagre sup-
plies should be eked out to accomplish
the best possible results to all concerned.
How good the Master has been to us!
How good he has been to these heroic
women, these mothers. In the midst of
their trying situations and limited supplies
they made the best efforts possible that
their children should be men and wom-
en of the better mold, loving their
country, but above all loving their God,
and the propositions involved in the
sacred message that He had entrusted to
His servant in the day and age in which
we live. True to husbands? Yes. True
to wives? Yes. True to children? Yes.
True to the unfortunate and feeble? Yes.
True to those men that have been sel-
ected, and the women also who have
been selected to administer in the dis-
charge of the obligations of counselors
and advisers. True to the ones who are
upon the picket lines of the world, de-
claring the message of glad tidings to the
children of men. True to every element
of right, earnest, devoted, brave, heroic,
the mission that they have performed
will stand written in the Lamb's Book of
Life, as a witness to God that His sons
 and His daughters who received this mes-
sage of glad tidings from our father and
from His holy Son, through the adminis-
trations of His prophet, were not select-
ed unwisely, unwittingly, but they were
selected for their merit, for their heroic
courage, for their devotion, and love of
everything that was good and pure.


My sisters, I commend you for your
past labors, and trust that the decliaing
days of your life shall be the best of your
experience; that your voice for the future
shall be heard in the way of admonition,
and in the effort to perform and establish
in the souls of the younger generation
around the same heroic courage, the same
fixedness of purpose, the same determin-
ation that there shall be no failure so far
as your descendants are concerned. No
prouder thought can well up in the heart,
I am satisfied, of father and mother, than
the fact that my son and my daughter
has been a witness for this truth, that
was sacred to me in my boyhood and my
girlhood, and sent me from Scandinavia
or from Germany, or from Italy, or from
France, or that sent me from England or
Ireland, or Wales or Scotland, or that
gathered me from the islands of the sea,
from the native races of those lands, and
beneath the fostering care of that estab-
lished organization that our Father sent
into the world to regenerate mankind,
that my children may be made witnesees
for that truth and be as heroic in the
offerings they may make in its interests
a[-] was the girl who left father and
mother to gather to this mountain home,
that she might become indeed the savior
of her race, or that boy who, abandoning
the fireside and the circle in which he
moved, should be placed in the position
in future time that his race should through
him receive the administration of the or-
dinance of God's house, and the doorway
be opened to them, that by and by when
the names were counted up they would be
found among them, he having laid the
foundation stones upon which his race
were compelled to build.
	My sisters and my brothers, words of
mine cannot give to you the feelings that
exist in my heart as I stand before you
today.	I have nothing but blessings for
the mother's of Israel, for the women
whose hearts are big enough and broad
enough not only to feed her own little
family circle, but so full of good and just-
ice and right that she is willing and ready
to utilize that which comes to her for the
comfort and well-being of some less for-
tunate being.	May the spirit of this work
ever remain with you; may the heroic
principles involved in it guide your lives.
May your children and your children's
children, as they come and go, call you
blessed.	I speak of you as the best and
noblest that can be found in the world,
and I hope that your children will stand
before the peoples of the world in the
future, as I feel that I can stand before
the people of the world today, and say
"The best man I ever knew was my
own father; the best women I ever knew
were my father's own wives."		I lived
with all of them, for I was a waif in
their midst.	God knows that they were
genuine women of worth, fulfilling their
missions, undergoing their trials and car-
rying their responsibilities with heroic
courage.	And while I speak thus of them
I would have your sons and your daugh-
ters speak of you as father and mothers
with the same feeling and the same senti-
ment that exists in my own breast in re-
gard to their record, for I would have the
sons and daughters of Zion recognize the
pure spirit of that heroic body of women
whose hearts given to God, stood by the
home, and held the home sacred, while
their associates, their partners in life,

[Column 2]
were declaring this message of glad tid-
ings to the world, sending forth that mes-
sage, that the Gospel should be preached
in every land, in every clime, to every
nation, to every kindred, to every tongue,
to every people.
	When we shall see the results of these
ministrations, as husbands and wives,
with our children encircling us, shall the
husband say "This was my work;" or
shall the wife say "This was my work;"
or will we say with each other, "This
was our work; hand in hand in the midst
of tribulation we met the obligations
which God placed upon our shoulders,
and we have fulfilled our part?" and side
by side in the eternities I trust that we
will be true and faithful and just to each
other.
	That the Lord may bless you, Sister
Richards, bless you good sisters who are
ministering in this work, bless the grand
old lady who stands at the head of this
work, in connection with her associates,
who are ministering to the accomplish-
ment of the same great purpose; and
bless all the Saints, the daughters, the
fathers and the mothers that have had
part in the accomplishment of this work,
that their names may be indeed regis-
tered in the Lamb's Book of Life, and
when the book shall be opened it shall
there be enumerated "This man fulfilled
his destiny," and this woman registered
her name in the Lamb's Book of Life,
having fulfilled her part to the best of
her ability; this boy and this girl were
their devoted children, true to them in
the midst of their trials and tribulations,
and in their old age honored and blessed
them for their ministrations." That Jus-
tice and peace and love may abound
among you, and that joy may ever be
yours, and that your names may be in-
deed registered in that Lamb's Book of
Life is my prayer, in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith then ad-
dressed the conference as follows: My
dear brothers and sisters—I have enjoyed
myself very much at this meeting. I
liked very much what the brethren said,
and I do not expect to say very much to
you, or speak very loud, I don't think I
can make half of you hear. I have not
practiced speaking half as much as I
have doing the work, and John Henry
has been telling you about what we used
to do. I have been a good worker, but
I have never practiced speaking very
much, and I haven't got a voice to reach
you all, I am afraid.
	I don't know where to begin, hardly,
but I believe I will begin with John
Henry's father coming and visiting us as
a missionary in Virginia, and I believed
his testimony; I believed what he said
about Joseph the Prophet, his cous-
in, and I have never changed my mind
in, and I have never changed my mind
yet; and it has been strengthened many
times in various ways. I know that Jo-
seph was a true prophet, and I knew it
before I ever saw him. The Lord made
manifest unto me that I knew he was a
true prophet, and that the Book of Mor-
mon was true, and that the Lord had
through Joseph Smith restored the Gos-
pel in its purity, and that has helped me
all my days. John Henry was talking
about sitting around the fireside. Some-
times we didn't have very much fire, but
a little ashes, perhaps. But I knew the
Gospel was true, and I knew that my

[Column 3]
husband was a true servant of the Lord;
and when he has been on missions. or
whatever he had to do, it was all right if
I could save a little something for him to
eat when he returned home, why that
was my pleasure, and my children the
same way, and some of the time would
have plenty, but I never had more than
I have now. I have plenty to eat, and
friends and home, and I am happy in my
labors, but I like to work in the temple
—that seems to be my work. I had my
endowments when the Prophet Joseph
was alive, because I was George A.
Smith's wife. and he was one of the
twelve apostles; and there was just the
Presidency of the Church and the twelve
apostles, the presiding bishops and a few
that received their endowments while
the Prophet Joseph was living, or else we
wouldn't know anything about it, or
what the temples were for. I was in the
Nauvoo temple from the first day to the
last, nearly every day, as long as we
worked there; and I have been in the
Endowment House about seventeen
years, working, and other places; the
Manti and Logan temples I have worked
in. and now I have been in the Salt Lake
temple twelve years—I have scarcely
missed a day. I can say that today I ran
away from my work, but it is baptism
day, and I could arrange that pretty well
so that the record will show all right.
But I love the temple work, I love the
work for the dead.
	Brother William Taylor was talking to
me a little while ago about Joseph the
Prophet being with his father, hiding up,
just out of Nauvoo; and he said that they
would have breakfast, go out into the
woods, where they would stay almost all
day; and while they were out there one
day, he had a revelation on baptism for
the dead, and the work in the temple,
and when he was telling it to me he said,
"I feel it now—that, sacred, holy spirit."
And I would urge you sisters to work in
the temple as much as you can for your
dead, and I am sure you will never be
sorry for it. Never mind about riches
and dress and the grand things of the
earth, but try your best to do for your
dead. Teach your children to love the
Gospel—your sons and your daughters—
so that they can have a testimony for
themselves; every sould that is honest
in heart may receive a testimony that
they cannot deny.
	I was just reading yesterday some of
the teachings of the Prophet Joseph to
the Relief Society, and to the presi-
dent and counselors, what they had to
say to the sick and poor, and about them,
and those that were wayward. It was
not only to preach to them and provide
for their wants, but they must know for
themselves that Mormonism was true and
love it.
	I had the good fortune to be at the or-
ganization of the Relief Society. There
was only eighteen present, and I have
the records which Sister Eliza Snow kept
of those meetings; and they are all gone
but myself—every name that is there is
gone; and I don't know what I am left
for, but some good, I believe. At any
rate, I pray God for health and strength
to help my sisters, and encourage them
to go on and perform their labors as the
Prophet talked to us, to save our souls,
and looking up the poor and the needy,
and fill up our days in usefulness, and not


be afraid that we are doing more than our
share of anything, as the Prophet Joseph
said was the way to do. I am anxious to
do my part, and a good share—good part
—so that no one can say, "You are in-
different, and I have to work and wait on
you." I don't think that will be said about
me. At any rate I hope it won't, for it
won't be true.
	Now I know I am not interesting you
here, and I don't want to take up the
time, because the President and some
of the sisters want to talk to you, or we
want them to, and the time is rather
precious. As soon as it is past, we will
break up and go away; but bear this in
mind: that our religion is true, and our
leaders are true, and be true to them, for
what is so nice as union and love? In
this way I started in the society—union
and love. You never need be afraid you
are doing more than your part, but do all
you can, and receive the blessings of the
Lord for your diligence and faithfulness,
and He will reward you.
	Now I think I have said plenty, and I
know you can't hear—the children make
a little noise. I pray the Lord to bless
you all, and make you glad you have
been here today, and fill your heart with
joy and love continually, with patience
and endurance, to love the sick and the
afflicted, the cast down and distressed,
and at last bring you safe in the celestial
kingdom, is my prayer, in the name of
Jesus. Amen.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells then ad-
dressed the conference.
(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
[-]E ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money. TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the ba[-]k
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit marri[-]d
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from on[-] dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer at a recent
meeting described women's clubs as "the
great nonprofessional university for wo-
men in their second youth."
	Mrs. Elizabeth Riis, wife of Jacob Riis,
the well-known writer and lecturer, lately
died at her home, Richmond Hill, New
York. She gave much of her time to
social services and possessed fine literary
ability, often collaborating with her hus-
band. In "The Making of an American"
Mr. Riis devoted one chapter to her.
	Miss Flora Cleft Stevenson, LL. D.,
chairman of the School Board of Edin-
burgh, Scotland, has been presented with
the freedom of that city in recognition of
her great public services. She was ad-
mitted a burgess and guild brother of the
city in testimony of regard for her char-
acter and her work in connection with
philanthropic and benevolent institutions,
and also for the eminent service she has
rendered to the cause of education as a
member for more than 20 years of the
Edinburgh School Board. In recognition
of the honor conferred on Miss Stevenson,
all the school children were given a holi-
day. The Baroness Burdett-Coutts is the
oldest living burgess of the city. She was
admitted in 1874.


WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY.
	VIRGINIA FRAZER BOYLE.

Who lays a stone, or plants a tiny tree,
	Or sows a seed of truth with zealous care,
Who does this in the name of liberty,
	Has breathed a patriot’s prayer.

’Tis not the blare of trumpet that proclaims
	The bravest, truest deeds of valor done;
Nor yet, the highest shaft, that bears the names
	Of greatest victories won.

We all were patriots, when the banners waved
	On high, to kiss a mellow land of peace;
We all are soldiers, with the country saved—
	When belching cannons cease.

But when the day shall come, what means the wave
	Of starry flag against a stormy sky,
If men have not the patriot’s will to save,
	Or courage how to die?

What means the boast? If there no works be
		found,
	Commensurate with blind and trusting faiths;
If these hoarse shouts that through the land re-
		sound,
	Proceed from hollow wraiths?

If there be set upon the Nation’s stalr,
	A crumbling god, whose blighting name is Self?
Seek ye the light of patriotism there,
	Beside the spoils of pelf?

Should there be need? God hold the fateful day
	In stumbling tardiness, where time is born—
Nor haste the call, but let the light we pray
	Meet every waking morn!

Fling out the beauty of thy missal, free,
	Oh! thou, my Country beautiful, and then
Columbia, draw thy children to thy knee,
	Thy heart has called for men!

Thou art the daughter of as pure a sire,
	As ever fathered nation of the earth;
Thine is the heritage of holy fire,
	God-given, at his birth!

Then yield thy homage; ’tis a little thing
	That we can lend to garland his bright scroll.
Swing high thy banners, bid the full time ring
	The deep bells of the soul.

In his fair name, ring out the cries that rend
	The life of hopeless want and needless pain;
The narrow, grinding labor that must bend
	Both young and age, for gain.

Bring in the dignity of labor, paid,
	Not wages that are doled like drops of life;
Nor at the horny hands, let honor fade,
	Nor right, awaken strife.

Blot out the hiss of anarchy, that dwells
	In squalid placed, brewing in the night;
And break the decalogue of self, which tells
	That might makes even right.

Cast out the fatted Pharisees who fold
	Their robes about them, ’broidered with rust;
Wring from the miser’s hand, ill gotten gold,
	But leave him all that’s just!

Yea, level there, the rank and file of men,
	Columbia, oh! thou daughter of the free,
Thy aristocracy is truth, and then
	Thy watchword “Liberty!”

But let the keystone of thine arch be Love
	And be the arch, “Humanity to Man”;
Thy deeds to nations of the earth shall prove
	Thy Union’s strength and span

Ay! keep this day, a “holy day” by name,
	A white stone, as the drifting years pass on;
Beneath a white seal, spotless keep the fame
	Of peerless Washington!
				Americaa Monthly Magazine.


MARY A. LIVERMORE.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore one of the
most famous, and one of the best known
women in the United States, and one
whose name has been heralded around
the world departed this life May 23, 1905.
	Mrs. Livermore continued her public
work to the v[-]ry last, she spoke at the
New England Suffrage Festival in Fan-
euil Hall, Boston on May 10. "She had
fainted four times that day, and was
quite unfit to be out; but she was deter-
mined to be there and to make the pre-
sentation speech when the Massachutetts
W. S. A. gave Mr. Blackwell the silver
pitcher in honor of his 80th birthday."
	"The next day she spoke again at a
meeting of the Melrose W. C. T. U. but
was forced to break off by a severe fit of
coughing. She had a bronchial attack,
lay  unconscious for several days, and
finally succumbed to heart failure, pass-
ing away without pain."
	"The funeral of this distinguished
woman was held in the First Congre-
gational Church at Melrose, Mass. on
May 25. The city was in mourning, the
flags at half-mast, the schools and places
of business closed. The G. A. R. Post
carried the coffin to the church. The
pall-bearers were Wm. Loyd Garrison,
Rev. Charles G. Ames and Henry B.
Blackwell. There was a great crowd,
including many persons of distinction."
	Mrs. Livermore's history is full of in-
teresting incidents, and gives one an idea
of the tendencies in childhood that develop
into strong characteristics in mature life.
It also shows something of heredity.
	"Mary Ashton Rice was born in North-
field, Mass. Dec. 19, 1820. Her father
Timothy Rice was of Welsh descent and
had served in the war of 1812-1815."
	From him it is said she inherited
strength and stature and something of her
gift of language. Her mother Zebiah
Vose Glover Ashton was the daughter of
Capt. Nathaniel Ashton of London, Eng-
land. Captain Ashton married a Boston
woman. She was so fond of her own
native country that she would not leave
it.
	Mrs. Livermore says in her childish im-
agination the Captain seemed to be "for-
ever standing with one foot on the sea
and one on dry land like the angel of the
apocalypse."
(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

