Vol. 34						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, OCTOBER, 1905.					No. 5


CONTENTS.
Domestic Science and Home..........M. A. C.		25
Obituary.........................................................		27
Mothers' Work-Wasatch Stake.......................	29
In Memoriam.................................................		30
Relief Society Reports-Morgan Stake-Wa-
	satch Stake-Kanab Stake-Nebo Stake		30
	Snowflake Stake....................................		31
Relief Society Organized...............................		32
Rabbi Fleischer on Women in a Democracy.		32
EDITORIAL:-Interesting Gathering.............		28
	The Spirit of Relief Society Work.........		28
Editorial Notes:..............................................		28
POETRY:-Valiant for the Truth-........Frances
	......................................Ridley Havercal	25
	If I had Time..............................Selected	25
	Beyond...................Ella Wheeler Wilcox	30


VALIANT FOR THE TRUTH.
	BY FRANCES RIDLEY HAVERGAL.
Unfurl the Christian Standard! lift it manfully on
	high.
And rally where its shining folds wave out against
	the sky!
Away with weak half-heartedness, with faithless-
	ness and fear!
Unfurl the Christian Standard, and follow with a
	cheer!
In God's own name we set it up, this banner, brave
	and bright,
Uplifted for the cause of Christ, the cause of Truth
	and Right:
The cause that none can overthrow, the cause that
	must prevail,
Because the promise of the Lord can never, never
	fail. 
Now, who is on the Lord's side, who? come, throng
	His battlefield;
Be strong, and show that ye are men! Come forth
	with sword and shield!
What peace, while traitorous Evil stalks in false
	array of light?
What peace, while enemies of Christ are gathering
	for the fight?
Unfurl the Christian Standard, with firm and fear-
	less hands!
For no pale flag of compromise with Error's legion
	bands,
And no faint-hearted flag of truce with Mischief
	and with Wrong,
Should lead the soldiers of the Cross, the faithful
	and the strong.
Unfurl the Christian Standard, and follow through
	the strife
The noble army who have won the martyr's crown
	of life.
Our ancestors could die for truth, could brave the
	deadly glow,
And shall we let the standard fall. and yield it to
	the foe?
But if ye dare not hold it fast, yours only is the
	loss,
For it shall be victorious, this Standard of the
	Cross!
It shall not suffer, though ye rest beneath your
	sheltering trees,
And cast away the victor's crown for love of timid
	ease.
The Lord of Hosts, in whom alone our weakness
	shall be strong.
Shall lead us on to conquest with a mighty battle
	song;
And soon the warfare shall be past, the glorious
	triumph won,
The kingdoms of this world shall be, the kingdoms
	of His Son.


[Column 1]
DOMESTIC SCIENCE, AND HOME.
	Home is the resort
Of love, of joy, of peace and plenty, where,
Supporting and supported, polished friends
And dear relations mingle into bliss.
	Home: That word touches every fiber
of the soul, and strikes every chord of the
human heart with its angelic fingers.
Nothing but death can break its spell.
What tender associations are linked with
the home: What pleasing images and
deep emotions it awakens: It calls up the
fondest memories of life, and opens in our
nature the purest, deepest, richest gush
of consecrated thought and feeling.
	To the little child, home is his world.
He knows no other. The father’s love,
the mother’s smile, the sister’s embrace,
the brother’s welcome, throw about his
home a heavenly halo, and makes it as
attractive to him as the home of angels.
Home is the spot where the child pours
out all his complaints, and it is the grave
of all his sorrows. 
	Childhood has its sorrows and its griev-
ances; but home is the place where these
are soothed and banished by the sweet
lullaby of a fond mother’s voice. Ask the
man of mature years, whose brow is fur-
rowed by care, whose mind is engrossed
in business, -- ask him what is home.
	He will tell you: It is a place of rest, a
haven of content, where loved ones re-
lieve him of the burden of every day life
too heavy to be continuously borne, from
whence, refreshed and invigorated, he
goes forth to battle again. Every home
should be as a city set on a hill, that can-
not be hid. Into it should flock friends
and friendship, bringing the light of the
world, the stimulus and the modifying
power of contact with various natures,
the fresh flowers of feeling gathered from
wide fields. The influences of home per-
petuate themselves. The gentle graces
of the mother live in the daughter long
after her head is pillowed in the dust of
death; and the fatherly kindness finds its
echoes in the nobility and character of
sons, who come to wear his mantle and
fill his place. While, on the other hand,
from unhappy, misgoverned, and ill order-
ed homes go forth persons who shall make
other homes miserable, and perpetuate
the sorrows and sadness, the contentions
and strifes, which have made their own
early lives miserable. 
	If we would have a true home, we must
guard well our thoughts and actions. A
single bitter word may disquiet the home
for a whole day; but, like unexpected
flowers which spring up along our path
full of freshness, fragrance, and beauty,
so do kind words and gentle acts and
sweet disposition make glad the home
where peace and blessings dwell.
	No matter how humble the abode, if it
be thus garnished with grace and sweet-
ened by kindness and smiles, the heart
will turn lovingly towards it from all the
tumults of the world, and home, “be it
ever so humble,” will be the dearest spot
under the sun.

[Column 2]
	Home in one form or another is the
great object of life. It stands at the end
of every days labor, and beckons us to its
bosom: and life would be cheerless and
meaningless did we not discern across
the river that divides it from the life be-
yond, glimpses of the pleasant mansions
prepared for us.
	Home should be so truly home that the
weary, tempted heart, could turn towards
it any where on the dusty highways of
life, and receive light and strength. It
should be the sacred refuge of our lives,
whether rich or poor.
	How can children repay parents for
their watchings, anxieties, labors, toils,
trials, patience, and love? Think of the
long years of unwearied toil, of their deep
and soul felt devotion to the interests of
their offspring. Every day should they
give them some token of love.
	Every hour should their own hearts
glow with gratitude and holy respect for
those who have given them being.
	There is an enduring tenderness in the
love of a mother to her son that trans-
cends all other affections of the heart.
	It is neither to be chilled by selfishness,
weakened by worthlessness, nor stifled
by ingratitude. She will sacrifice every
comfort to his convenience; she will sur-
render every pleasure to his enjoyment;
she will glory in his fame, and exult in his
prosperity.
	If misfortune overtakes him, he will be
the dearer to her from misfortune; and if
disgrace settles upon his name, she will
still love and cherish him in spite of his
disgrace.
	If all the world besides cast him off,
she will be all the world to him. A father
may turn his back on his child, brothers
and sisters may become inveterate, en-
emies, husbands may desert their wives,
wives their husbands; but a mother’s love
endures through all.
	 In good repute, in bad, in the face of
the world’s condemnation, a mother still
lives on and still hopes that her child may
turn from his evil ways and repent; still
she remembers his infant smile that ever
filled her bosom with rapture, the merry
laugh, the joyful shout of his childhood,
the opening promise of his youth; and
thinking of these, she never can be
brought to think him all unworthy.
	Too frequently the effect of prosperity
is to render the heart cold and selfish;
but the heart will never forget the hal-
lowed influence of happy home memories.
It will be an evening’s enjoyment to which
the lapse of years will only add new
sweetness.
	Such a home memory is a constant in-
spiration for good, and as constant a re-
straint from evil. A constant endeavor
should be made to render every home
cheerful. Innocent joy should reign in
every heart.
	There should be found domestic amuse-
ment, fireside pleasures, quiet and simple
they may be, but such as shall make
home happy, and not leave it in that irk-
some place that will oblige the youthful
spirit to look elsewhere for joy.


[Column 1]
	Make your children helpful and useful,
and you will make them happy. Let
them early form habits of neatness, and
when you are weary you will not have to
wait on their carelessness.
	Teach them to give you courteous
speech and manners, and they will live to
honor you. Never reprove the little ones
before strangers; for children are as sen-
sitive, if not more so, than other persons,
and wish strangers to think well of them.
	When reproved before any one with
whom they are not well acquainted, their
vanity is wounded. They have self re-
spect, and such mortification of it is
dangerous. Praise spurs a child on to
earnest effort; blame when administered
before visitors, takes away the power of
doing well. It is the parents duty to
make their children’s childhood full of
love and childhoods’ proper joyousness.
Not all the appliances that wealth can
buy are necessary to the free and happy
unfolding of childhood in body, mind and
heart. But children must have love in-
side the house, and fresh air and good
play and companionship outside.
	The gleeful laugh of happy children is
the best home music, and the graceful
figures of childhood are the best statuary.
	The organization of the home depends
for the most part upon the woman. She
is necessarily the manager of every family
and household. How much there depends
upon her intelligent co-operation.
	Man’s life revolves around woman. She
is the sun of his social life. The comforts of
every home mainly depend upon her—
upon her character, her temper, her
power of organization and her business
management. The idea is fast gaining
ground especially among the younger
girls of today that in order to have a home
where they can be really happy they must
have a house with all the improvements
of modern times, a vast amount of money
must be spent in costly furniture most of
which is fit only as an ornament to a
room rather than being of real use to the
family. Then too all members of the
family must be kept from the most cheer-
ful room in the house in order that it may
be kept ready for callers. To me the en-
nobling influences that do so much to
make stronger characters, and conse-
quently each day assist in making this a
better world, cannot be felt in such a
home, all the real home love, the real
home feelings are wanting. We are not
satisfied merely with a dwelling place, our
home must be comfortable. I do not
mean warmth, good furniture, good eat-
ing and drinking. I mean cleanliness,
pure air, order, economy; in a word home-
thrift and domestic government. Wealth
is not necessary to comfort. A poor
man’s home, moderately supplied with
the necessaries of life, presided over by a
cleanly, frugal housewife, may contain all
the elements of comfortable living, want
of comfort is for the most part caused,
not so much by the absence of sufficient
means, as by the absence of the requisite
knowledge of domestic management.
	I believe that the woman who would
make her home comfortable must be
systematic in her every day routine of
home duties. The woman who starts out
in the morning without first planning her
day’s work will be the woman to whom
housework is a perfect drudgery. But
let her plan her work, let her go at her

[Column 2]
work with a determination to accomplish
it in so much time, and let her be pleas-
ant and cheerful always; then will the
home duties become the greatest pleasures
she will ever know. Another eminently
household quality is punctuality—How
many grumblings would be avoided in
domestic life by a little more attention
being paid to this virtue. Late breakfasts
and late dinners, cleanings out of time
and washings protracted till midnight,—
what a host of little nuisances spring to
mind at the thought of the unpunctual
house wife.
	The unpunctual woman like the un-
punctual man, becomes disliked because
she consumes our time, interferes with
our plans, causes uneasy feelings, and
virtually tells us that we are not of suffi-
cient importance to cause her to be more
punctual. To the business man time is
money, and to the business woman it is
more—it is peace, comfort and domestic
prosperity.
	How often we hear it said that “clean-
liness is next to Godliness.” Where then
if not in our home should this quality be
found?
	If we would have our homes a place
where God’s holiest angels would be
pleased to dwell we must have it a place
where order and cleanliness prevail. How
many times have we entered the house of
a friend, and found every room, every
dish, every book, every piece of furniture
out of its place; the floors all littered up
with everything, so completely covered
with dust that your friend would have to
take her apron and remove the dust from
a chair before she could invite you to be
seated.
	Do you remember the feeling that came
over you when you entered that home?
Do you remember how you longed to flee
from there and return to the peace and
quiet of your own fire-side. If such would
be the influence of such a home over a
stranger, imagine what it would be over
the child reared in such a place. Could
he come from home with the spirit of
God so implanted in his soul that tempta-
tion would be an easy matter to be over-
come, would he come from such a home
with any great desire to return, when the
errand that called him forth was per-
formed.
	Suppose the home you entered had
been so well managed that in all the
house there was not one room, one arti-
cle of furniture, one dish out of its place.
Suppose there were snow white curtains
at the windows, well swept carpets on
the floors, and in the grate a warm cheer-
ful fire. Do you think your stay in this
home would have been such a formal
call? Why I have been in such homes
when it seemed utterly impossible for me
to tear myself away from their peaceful,
quiet, comfortable influence. Such a
home is the sweetest type of heaven.
	The mother who would make of her
home a heaven for her family is the one
who each night plans her work for the
following day. She is the one who arises,
and has each member of her family arise,
at an hour so early that sufficient time
will be given each one to prepare for the
duties of the day before him. Her break-
fast will be served at a certain hour each
morning and at such an hour that all may
enjoy not only his meal but the spirit of
love and peace that should prevail in a
true home. Immediately after the morn-

[Column 3]
ing meal is served and the morning greet-
ings are over the mother takes up her
labors for the day, Remembering first
of all those who are so near to her—she
goes into their sleeping rooms and throws
open the doors and windows and allows
plenty of good fresh air and sunshine to
enter which does so much in the promot-
ing of health, Many persons I believe
do not appreciate this blessing which
God sends alike to all his children, but
when we stop to consider the many dis-
eases and even death which have been
caused by the inmates of the house
breathing the foul air which has been
allowed to remain there for days at a
time, we would consider fresh air and
the bright sunshine among our greatest
luxuries. All the clothes from every bed
should be thrown entirely back in order
that they may become well ventilated
and purified by the air before the bed is
made. I am here reminded of a few lines
of poetry which is self suggested and runs
as follows:
	Do you wish to be healthy!
	Then keep the house sweet;
	As soon as you’re up
	Shake each blanket and sheet.
	Leave the beds to get fresh,
	On the close-crowded floor.
	Let the wind sweep right through—
	Open window and door.
	The bad air will rush out
	As the good air comes in,
	Just as goodness is stronger
	And better than sin.
	Do this, it’s soon done,
	In the fresh morning air,
	It will lighten your labor
	And lessen your care.
	You are weary—no wonder,
	There’s weight and there’s gloom
	Hanging heavily round
	In each over-full room.
	Be sure all the trouble
	Is profit and gain
	For there’s headache and heartache,
	And fever and pain
	Hovering round, settling down
	In the closeness and heat;
	Let the wind sweep right through
	Till the air’s fresh and sweet.
	And more cheerful you’ll feel
	Through the toil of the day;
	More refreshed you’ll awaken
	When the night’s passed away.
	The thrifty housewife who has well
considered the duties of the day will have
cleared the breakfast table, assorted the
dishes, put cooking utensils to soak and
put the dining and living rooms in order,
next she has looked through store closet
and refrigerator and made a list of food
to be ordered, having washed the dishes
and prepared any dish that may require
long cooking, will next make the beds
neatly and put the sleeping rooms in
order. Her house is now in order and
she is free to pay attention to other
duties of the day.
	The wise mother will select for her din-
ing room the most cheerful, and pleasant
room in her home. Let this always be a
bright airy place where the rays of sun-
shine can penetrate each corner,
	Give the arrangements of this room
your most careful attention and above all
make it a place of comfort and rest. Do
not have your room filled with furniture
that must be watched constantly for fear
of a mar or scratch, but let the air of


[Column 1]
freedom pervade the very atmosphere.
Place here such pictures, as will bring to
the mind of the dwellers therein pure,
ennobling thoughts.
	A few flowers in the window sweetens
the air, makes the room look graceful and
refreshing. The flower is a companion
that will never say a cross thing to any
one, but will always look beautiful and
smiling. Does it not appeal to you that
this is just the room in which to serve
your meals. Man does not live to eat, but
he certainly eats to live, and the perfect-
ion and beauty of his spirit is largely con-
ditioned upon the health of his body—
since in a large measure the daily food
conditions the health of the body, every
possible care must be taken to have the
greatest amount of good come from the
food. For this reason, it is imperative to
have pleasant surroundings, those that
are most conducive to cheerful and festive
train of thought and good nature. If the
mind is soothed and at rest, the food
taken is much more beneficial to the
body. No matter how plain, how simple
the food may be the thoughful mother
will exert every effort to serve each meal
in a proper manner. First of all she will
see to it that the room is clean, freshly
aired and dusted and the table in its right
place. In setting the table it is a good
plan to have a thick piece of canton
flannel cloth to lay first on the table.
	This cloth will not only protect the
table from the hot dishes, but will pre-
vent the sound of dishes being set down
upon the table.
	On top of that lay the table cloth per-
fectly straight, with no wrinkles. It is
preferable to use a white cloth, no mat-
ter how cheap the material, for even
then it can be kept white and well laun-
dried, and to the looks appeals to our
better self, makes the plainest food
sweeter to the taste. Much labor can
be saved if the table linen, after using,
is properly cared for by the crumbs be-
ing removed and folded neatly in the
creases and carefully iaid away,
	We may consider a few simple direc-
tions for setting the table.
	Where soup, meat, vegetables and des-
sert are served, the table can be set as
follows: First set a plate for each person,
at the right side of the plate place
a knife with the sharp edge towards the
plate; next to the knife a soup spoon
with the open side of the bowl up. At
the left place a fork, next to the fork the
napkin. If bread and butter plates are
used, place them at the left; put the
glass of water in line with the end of the
blade of the knife. Put a mat for the
meat dish before the carver, and on each
side of the table for the vegetables.
Place the carving knife at the right of the
carver and the fork at the left and a
table spoon in front of him. Put a table
spoon where each dish of vegetables is
to be placed, also at the other end
of the table. Have the dessert
plates with the necessary silver for each
one—teaspoon or knife or fork depend-
ing on the dessert—placed on a side table
near at hand. Fill the glasses with wa-
ter and place a pitcher of water on the
table. If you use pickles or catchup,
place them on the table. Remove the
soup dishes and bring on the meat and
vegetables. Put the warm plates before
the carver. Remove the remaining din-
ner and bring on the dessert.

[Column 2]
	Perhaps there is no branch of domestic
science in the home which is of greater
consequence than that in the preparation
and cooking of the food.
	A good cook must know how to take
“left over,” keep them fresh and sweet,
and out of them make other nourishing
preparations.
	If there is one kind of food that seems
more precious than another it is bread.
As bread is the staff of life, we should be
very careful not to waste any. The
Lord has abundantly blessed us in these
days with plenty. When we read of the
priyatione of the pioneers of this coun-
try, when flour was almost worth its
weight in gold, and when our mission-
aries abroad have testified of its value
and longed for even a crust, we should
sense the importance of wisely using this
great boon to the best advantage. There
are many ways in which odd pieces of
stale bread can be put to use. Steamed
bread, milk toast, bread pudding, cheese
toast, dressings for fowls, drying, rolling
and sifting odd pieces of bread, placing
in a clean, dry jar can be kept any
length of time and used for a variety of
purposes.
	Economy should be the watchword in
every household, and one illustration in
this direction will suffice to show how the
frugal mother can have a variety of
dishes from a very small outlay.
	In the making of soups, by a little tact,
the use of a fair sized bone, such as can
be bought for fifteen or twenty-five
cents, can be used in a variety of ways.
You first make your stock by boiling the
meat, which is strained, cooled and all
fat removed.
	This stock can be kept for a week in
a cool place. A little potato hash can
be made from the meat. If any of this
remains, the flavor can be changed by
adding fine chopped onions and fried
into patties. From this stock you can
first make a good vegetable soup, and
what is left over strain and make a to-
mato soup by adding a spoonful of corn
starch and the tomato juice and season-
ing to taste.
	The potato juice thus used is put up
when the regular stock of tomatoes are
prepared for the winter, by being well
cooked, strained, and bottled, ready to
use for such a purpose. If any of tke
stock is left, make into a clear soup the
rest.
	Many other illustrations in this direc-
tion might be given to good advantage,
but time will not permit. But having
been requested by our worthy president to
relate some of my first experiences, I
venture to offer the following:
	On account of the ill health of my
father when I was about eleven years of
age, our family leased a home in a little
country town.
	The farm was stocked with the usual
supply of horses, cows, pigs and poultry.
It was usual for my parents to visit in
town once a week, and on such occasions
it fell to my lot to prepare whatever
meals were had in their absence. As
there was plenty of fruit on the premises,
we were allowed to help ourselves, and
like growing children always are, my
brother and I not being able to content
ourselves till dinner time, were appeas-
ing our appetites with an apple. The
thought occurred to my brother that it
would be a good idea to have some of

[Column 3]
those delicious apple dumpling, such as
mother made. I readily consented, be-
lieving that I could easily accomplish the
task, as I had previously watched mother
make them. After all preparations had
been made and extra precautions taken
to insure success, we sat down to
feast upon them, but, alas! to my great
disappointment, they were heavy and
appeared as so many balls of lead, and
my brother laughed so heartily that I
persuaded him to throw all of them to
the pigs, and extorted a promise that the
matter should be kept a secret. Noth-
ing was said till next morning, when my
brother was engaged in attending to the
animals and reported to father that one
of the pigs was ill. My father hastened to
the pen and suggested that the animal
was only sleeping, and requested the boy
to awaken it, and at the same time giv-
ing the grunter a poke with his cane. It
was of no use, however, and they were
about to remove the body, when the
thought suggested itself as to how the
pig had died. On close investigation it
was discovered, to my great mortification
and embarrasment, that it had been one
of my dumplings.

	Let the table be the happy eating
place of a merry group, and not simply a
dull board where the members come only
to eat; and lastly, but not least, let the
house all day long, be the scene of
pleasant looks, pleasant words, kind and
affectionate acts.
	Let the sitting room at evening be the
place where a merry company settle
themselves to books and games, until
the round of goodnight kisses are in or-
der.
	I think of no work to which a woman
is called that presents as many interest-
ing problems, or that should be fuller of
interest to the broadly-educated woman.
Almost every science is brought into play
in the equipment and management of a
home.
	May we, as mothers who have sons
and daughters growing up around us,
ever think of the responsibility of keep-
ing alive the home feeling in the hearts
of our children, and thus perpetuate the
virtues and graces with which our heav-
enly Father has endowed us.
				MARY A. CUTLER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OBITUARY.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Laura Andrus, President of the West St. George
Ward Relief Society, who departed this life July
4, 1905.
	Whereas, after a long and severe illness our
worthy and beloved President has been called
home to our Heavenly Father, Therefore be it,
Resolved that we express our love and respect
for Sister Andrus and our appreciation of the good
and noble work which she has done.
	Resolved that we do extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved husband and pray that our
Heavenly Father will pour out his Holy Spirit up-
on him to bless and comfort his wounded heart, as
also the hearts of all her other loved ones left to
mourn her loss.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be sent
to her husband, and one to the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT and also a copy be placed on the records of
the Society.
							Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

				Woman's Exponent. 

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,      	-      	 OCTOBER, 1905


[Column 1]
	INTERESTING GATHERING.
	On Sunday evening, October 29, in the
new stake hall, the Relief Society of
Pioneer Stake, by courtesy of the Stake
Presidency were given the time after the
Sacrament had been administered to pre-
sent the Society work. President Annie
Wells Cannon taking charge and welcom-
ing the visitors. There were present by
invitation President Joseph F. Smith,
Apostles John Henry and George A.
Smith and C. W. Penrose, President
Bathsheba W. Smith and Secretary E. B.
Wells, Dr. R. B. Penrose and Sister Ju-
lina L. Smith of the General Board,
Sister Sarah E. Richards Smith and a
number of other visitors.
	Sister Cannon in her opening remarks
paid a graceful tribute to the Presidency
of the Stake and Bishops for offering
them one night in a year in which to
present the Society work in the Stake
and in the several wards, outlined the
mothers’ work and the nurses depart-
ment and explained her views of Relief
Society work in general; realized it con-
sisted more in doing than in preaching.
	Sister Lizzie F. Silver gave an original
well-written paper on “Reading.”
	Dr. R. B. Penrose spoke upon “Home
Nursing” its value, explained the benefits
to be derived by all young mothers from
taking the regular course. Sister E. B.
Wells urged all the young girls and wo-
men to become members of the Relief
Society and explained its many benefits.
President B. W. Smith spoke of her
anxiety for the leaders of the Church,
felt the same spirit was manifest now
that prevailed in Nauvoo. Stated that
she was the only living member present
at that first meeting when the Relief So-
ciety was organized by the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith.
	President Joseph F. Smith addressed
the meeting most eloquently, and gave
every possible enconragement to the
young women to assist in the Relief So-
ciety labors for their own development,
and stated it was directly organized by
the Prophet Joseph Smith. He thought
it one of the most important organiza-
tions in the Church. Spoke upon the
possible opportunities open to those who
visited the sick to encourage the spirit
and power of faith. and the effect of its
inspiring hope in the mind of the afflicted
and illustrated the point by relating an
experience of his own regarding the na-
tive traditions of the Hawaiians, who
believe they can pray each other to death.

[Column 2]
President Smith declared with great pow-
er that he knew the promises of the Gos-
pel in regard to healing the sick were true.
He continued his discourse, speaking
most impressively upon the subject of
revelation. He was listened to through-
out with most earnest attention, although
the hall was crowded to the doors and
many were standing. He concluded his
remarks with a glowing tribute to Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith and other faithful
sisters in the Relief Society, blessing them
for their good works.
	Elder Charles W. Penrose and Elder
John Henry Smith each spoke a few
words exhorting the young people to
greater diligence and faithfulness in the
Gospel and to live pure lives; and be true
to themselves and their religion. Miss
Mabel Cooper rendered a beautiful solo,
“He Shall Feed His Flock.” Congrega-
tion sang “Doxology, and Elder Sylvest-
er Q. Cannon pronounced the benedic-
tion. 
	This was a remarkable meeting in
many respects, the new hall just opened,
the President of the Church, several
Apostles, High Priests, High Councilors,
Elders and Bishops present as also dis-
tinguished women, whose lives have been
rich in good works.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We call the attention of our readers to
the article in this number entitled
“Home” a lecture given in the Thirtieth
Ward in this city in connection with the
Mother’s Work, we consider it worthy of
being read in the Relief Society meetings
here in this city and elsewhere.
	The October Relief Society Conference
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall on
the 5th, and 9th of this month, was per-
haps the largest in numbers of any con-
ference the Society has ever held, and
also one of the most interesting in many
ways. The reception tendered by the
General Board to Stake Presidents and
General officers of the Y. L. M. I. Asso-
ciation and Primary on Thursday evening
October 5th, at the Bee Hive, was a
very enjoyable affair, and summing up
briefly the exercises, one can only give a
passing notice of the Scripture reading
by Miss Maud May Babcock, the singing
by Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley and others,
and the instrumental music; all were of a
very fine quality and lofty in sentiment
and expression. The remarks by Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith were very inspiring
to Relief Society workers and teemed
with sound advice and superior wisdom,
and indeed were so uplifting that the
sisters must have realized that he was in-
tensely interested in the minute details of
the working methods of the Society,
	The October meeting of the U. S. D.
R. was held in the EXPONENT Office on
the 16th inst, the Regent Mrs. Mary A.
H. Cannon presiding. Mrs. Phebe Y.
Beatie gave the topic of the day, “His-
tory of Dr. Joseph Warren, after which
Mrs. Beatie read the poem written by
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder entitled “The Grave
of Paul Revere.”
	Miss Catherine Wells recently returned
from Europe and who had also visited
Massachusetts scenes etc., of the revolu-
tion gave an entertaining talk on places,
battle-grounds, monuments, statues, and

[Column 2]
reminiscences pertaining to revolutionary
times; mentioning the statue of Paul
Revere, Battle of Lexington, Cambridge,
Hancock’s Old Home, Concord, The Cow
Path, and several other famous places,
etc. Emerson’s home, the grave of
Margaret Fuller, mentioned the fact of
one of her ancestors a woman, having
given a signal by lighting a fire on a hill,
when the ships were coming into Boston
harbor. She also gave some interesting
items of her trip abroad. Committee
appointed to prepare for Thanksgiving
at November meeting—Mesdames Carol
Y. Cannon, Phebe Y. Beatie and Eliza-
beth R. Wright. Benediction by the
Chaplain.
	A new book has been issued recently
from the Deseret News Publishing Co.,
Salt Lake City, entitled “Centenary
Souvenir 1805-1905, Mormon Philosophy
or The Teachings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.” The author is Elder Lycurgus
A. Wilson, who was also the author of
“The Life of David W. Patten.” The
book is new in many respects and yet old
in others; there are a number of quota-
tions from Joseph the Prophet to which
positive reference is made that the reader
may refer to. That the book is very
interesting, one may infer from its title,
as every Latter-day Saint desires to learn
all that is possible about the first Prophet,
Seer and Revelator in this dispensation,
That the author has taken great pains to
collect material is very apparent in exam-
ining the work, and that he has been
choice in the language and spiritual tone
of the composition of the book. It is a
work that requires study and profound
thought. That it is well meant as a tri-
bute to the memory of the greatest man
of the age in which we live, there is no
doubt; and that the writer has been zeal-
ous for the Gospel in undertaking to ex-
plain clearly its philosophy is demonstrat-
ed by even a hasty perusal. The one pas-
sage it called to mind in looking it over
was a quotation from Shakespeare “There
are more things in heaven and earth than
are dreampt of in our philosophy.” The
writer does not present this note as a re-
view of this rather wonderful book, but
just as a brief notice, and hopes to be-
come better acquainted with its contents,
when it has been carefully studied.


THE SPIRIT OF RELIEF SOCIETY WORK.
	We may sum up in substance the spirit
of Relief Society work as developing in
the woman who undertakes it, charity,
long-suffering, gentleness, patience and
humility—these and many more qualities
are necessary in the work;—the spirit of
Relief Society work must be cultivated as
we cultivate attributes and gifts of mind
and soul; and our environment will have
something to do with this too; one brought
up or living in the atmosphere of those
eminent woman engaged in this Relief
Society work, naturally imbibes the spirit
of it and if practically employed in it, gets
the discipline which comes with the
activity of such faculties, as are brought
into exercise through the constant efforts
made in the routine of the work as a
teacher, or a visitor among those in need
of assistance, spiritual or temporal. To
us it seems the highest and noblest work
women could have to develop them


[Column 1]
morally and spiritually, to have solemn
thoughts and to feel an influence more po-
tent with divine love, more reverential,
and calling forth intense sympathy for
sorrow than in any other situation. It
was no doubt this sentiment that caused
the divine preacher to say "It is better to
go to the house of mourning than to the
house of feasting," because of the awe and
solemnity it inspires.
	In order to be successful in Relief So-
ciety work, one must not only partake of
the influence of it, but must put one's
soul into the work and give it the stamp
and seal of her personal life and char-
acter; and be so engrossed with the real
merit and beauty of it as to be joyous and
make it a part, as it were of herself, a
life work;—and assuredly a work of love
in those elements of character that are
always uplifting.
	The organization as effected by Joseph
Smith the Prophet would in the very
nature of things, be the most advanced in
theory and experiment (if we may be per-
mitted so to call it) in the cultivation of
all the higher and nobler attributes of
true womanhood, because all that the
Prophet did was of the very best.
	No one of us in our Society throughout
the land, who has had the experience of
attending upon the sick and distressed
and of ministering in the sacred offices of
assisting after death can ever forget the
emotions called forth, that tend towards
the most elevating and inspiring thoughts
of a future life here as well as hereafter.
	The spirit of God, the spirit of intel-
ligence, the spirit of prayer must all be
as it were a part of one's self in order to
succeed in Relief Society work, and one
must be willing to make sacrifices for the
sake of the work; self-sacrifice is a part
of the necessary endeavor even to achieve
any great results. To put one's soul into
the undertaking is to give it distinction
and lift it above ordinary common place
affairs. To forget ourselves in our work,
to be so happy in the duties that it brings
as to quicken the pulse, and make us walk
with flying feet, as it were, and do our daily
tasks with lighter hearts than, before,
"Charity never faileth" is indeed the
motto we should carry about and have in
mind always. One must never be weary
in well doing if one expects to follow in
the footsteps of those grand women who
have made their lives glorious in works of
love.
	To those who have traveled much
among our own people and have seen the
devotion of hundreds and perhaps thous-
sands of the valiant women, who have
served in their own neighborhoods among
the sick and suffering, and who have min-
istered to the needy and unfortunate and
given comfort and consolation to the
afflicted, and help to the dying it calls up
to the mind a host of reflections, that
words have no language to express, a rev-
erence and tenderness for these ministers
of grace clothed with faith, and wearing
the mantle of heavenly charity.
	This noble band of workers deserve the
admiration of the world, and assuredly
the veneration, respect and good-will of
all Latter-day Saints. How any young
woman dares to ridicule this work almost
surpasses belief.
	When we recall the women we have
known whose names are immortalized
for the services they have rendered to
humanity among the poor and lowly, as

[Column 2]
well as in all places where these minis-
trations have been needed, a flood of
tender emotions well up in the soul and
we long to tell the young women of today
of their beautiful lives and deeds of mercy
and benevolence.
	We speak their names with tender rev-
erence and we look back upon our asso-
ciation with those sisters almost as if we
had walked with angels. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney known among our people as
"Mother Whitney" Vilate Kimball, Eliza
R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, and a host
of others whose names alone would more
than fill the pages of our little paper—
and now added to these illustrious names
our beloved mother in Israel, M. Isabella
Horne; and while we reverence those
that are gone, we must not forget those
who are still with us, who have trod the
same path and been shining examples of
all that is most excellent and beautiful in
woman—our Elect Lady, Bathsheba W.
Smith and one who has been a grand and
noble worker along with her and those
who have gone on before Sister Jane S.
Richards.
	These women have made it easier and
plainer for those who are to follow, they
have broken down the barriers, have
opened the way and have given a richer
legacy than wealth, for they have made
the world better by their lives and ex-
ample, and have achieved greatness in
the humble walks of life among the wo-
men, and for the women, where their lot
has been cast, and have opened up possi-
bilities for the future greater than have
yet been realized.
	And for this grand organization the
Relief Society we give honor to its foun-
der the Prophet Joseph Smith, who
doubtless foresaw much of which we in
this day have hardly dreamed, though
we feel at times (some of u[-]) the magni-
tude and magnificence of the work to
which we are giving a great part of our
energies and trying to help our younger
sisters to understand and appreciate its
worth to the world of humanity.
	No doubt many avenues of helpfulness
and attainment will open out in the great
days to come for Zion must arise and
shine gloriously, and the women will be
there and have part in the grandeur and
splendor of the temples and edifices that
will make the cities of the Saints secure
and peaceful resting places for all, who
come up over the wonderful highways
that have been prophesied of and that
must assuredly come to pass.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]OUTLINE OF MOTHERS’ WORK.
	WASATCH STAKE.
Lesson 1.—Sacredness of Honor.
	(a) What does it mean? (b) How to
get the children’s confidence. (c) How
to uproot evil by planting good.
	Lesson 2.—Social Purity
	(a) How shall we create a higher so-
cial standing? (b) The aim of parents
should be to arrange and control the en-
vironments of the young people, cure
their faults, cultivate their talents and de-
velop their virtues.
Lesson 3.—School Life of Children.
	(a) Teach them to respect their princi-
pal and teachers and avoid criticism in
their hearing. (b) Train them early to

[Column 2]
do everything possible for themselves in
getting ready for school. (c) Impress
upon them the necessity of regularity in
attendance, punctuality and obedience.
	Lesson 4.—Occupation.
	(a) Be what nature intended you for
and you will succeed. (b) The dignity
of occupation should be judged by its in
fluences. (c) Do not waste time, money
and energy in endless changes and wand-
erings, but find what you are adapted for
and pursue that with the energy of your
soul. (d) Occupation in the home.
Occupation in the business world. Oc-
cupation in church and society.
	Lesson 5.—Self Culture.
	(a) Cultivate a love for the beauties
of nature. (b) Use good language, avoid
slang. (c) Study self control. (d) Seek
good companions in books and persons.
(e) Cultivate good thoughts: right think-
ing leads to right action.
Lesson 6.—Our Girls and Boys, Fathers
and Mothers of the Next Generation.
“Ah, happy years, who would not be a
child again.”
	(a) Childhood, its joys and trials. (b)
Good seed brings forth good fruit. As
we sow we reap. (c) Every organ of
the body performs a certain work. (d)
Duties of mothers in instructing their
sons. (e) Plenty of pure air and sleep
with wholesome diet the best medicine
for children.
		Lesson 7.—Woman.
	Every woman should be the embodi-
ment of purity, modesty, patience, affec-
tion and gratitude.
		Lesson 8.—Motherhood.
	(a) God’s commandment to Adam and
Eve. Ref. 1st chapter, 28-36 verse. (b)
Highest calling of man and woman. (c)
Child’s best heritage, honorable birth. (d)
Is poverty an excuse? Ref. Juvenile
Instructor, July 15, 1905
		Lesson 9—Virtue.
	(a) Who can find a virtuous woman,
for her price is above rubies. Ref. Prov-
erbs 31st ch. 10th v. We should ever be
diligent in training our children to guard
their virtue as they would their lives,
	Lesson 10.—Respect for the Aged.
	(a) Teach children to show respect
and kindness. (b) How can children
best lighten their labors and supply their
needs and show them the greatest honor?
“Honor thy father and thy mother,” etc.
	Lesson 11.—Honesty and Faithfulness.
	(a) Parents should set a proper exam-
ple. (b) Truthfulness in children may
be encouraged if due diligence be exer-
cised by parents and teachers. Ref. Doc-
trine and Covenants, sec, 93, 1.40 v.
Proverbs, 12:19-23. 13 ch., 5-6.
Lesson 12. True Object of Relief Soci-
			ety Work,
	(a) Visiting the sick. (b) Looking
after the poor and downcast. (c) Effects
of cheerful company. (d) Improvement
of home life. Make home, home indeed.
	Annie R. Duke, Elizabeth Murdock,
Louise Alexander, Margaret Murdock,
Sarah K. Duke—Committee.


30	WOMAN’S EXPONENT


IF I HAD TIME.
If I had time O minds all dulled with weeping,
	I’d waken you to thoughts and deeds sublime.
If I had time, O eyes grown dim with weeping,
	I’d brighten you if only I had time.
If I had time, O hearts so worn with grieving
	I’d comfort you with God’s own words’ sublime.
Spirits dark stained with sins past all believing
	I’d seek to clear you, if only I had time.
O careless soul, self shut in narrow prison
	Open thy doors! indifference is crime,
Over thy heart let Christ reign newly risen,
	And for thy Master's service make the time.
							SELECTED.


BEYOND.
It seemeth such a little way to me
	Across to that strange country—the Beyond;
And yet not strange, for it has grown to be
	The home of those of whom I am so fond;
They make it seem familiar and most dear,
	As journeying friends bring distant regions near.
So close it lies that when my sight is clear
	I think I almost see the gleaming strand,
I know I feel those who have gone from here
	Come near enough sometimes to touch my hand,
I often think but for our veiled eyes
	We should find Heaven right about us lies.
I cannot make it seem a day to dread,
	When from this dear earth I shall journey out
To that still dearer country of the dead,
	And join the lost ones, so long dreamt about.
I love this world, yet shall I love to go
	And meet the friends who wait for me I know,
I never stand above a bier and see
	The seal of death set on some well-loved face
But that I think, “One more to welcome me
	When I shall cross the intervening space
Between this land and that one over there,
One more to make the strange Beyond seem fair,”
And so for me there is no sting in death,
	And so the grave has lost its victory.
It is but crossing—with abated breath,
	And white, set face—a little strip of sea,
To find the loved ones waiting on the shore,
	More beautiful, more precious than before
					ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


IN MEMORIAM.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Sacred to the memory of Mary Dobson Clark
who departed this life Aug. 20th, 1905 at her home
in Cedar Fort, Utah Co, Utah.
	She was born July 1st, 1832, at Preston, Eng-
land, baptized when a child, came to Utah in 1856
with her mother and two brothers, Willard and
Thomas Dobson, better known now as Captain
Tom Dobson, of Salt Lake City. Crossing the
plains in Edward Martin’s hand-cart company,
and with them passed through the privations and
severe hardships that, that company was known to
have endured, wading through snow three feet
deep, her feet being badly frozen, but through the
administration of the Elders they were healed.
She was married to James P. Clark, May 7th,
1857 and located in Cedar Fort.
	She was of a gentle and merry disposition, and
one of Zion’s sweet singers. She was a willing
worker, and faithful officer in the Relief Society
and Primary Association for many years, punctual
in attendance, and prompt in all donations in re-
lief work.
	Her great desire was to remain faithful and true
to the Gospel of Christ, which she has done. And
we her co-laborers deem it a pleasant duty to test-
ify to her faithfulness.
	Therefore be it resolved, by the sisters of the
Cedar Fort Ward Relief Society that we tender to
her bereaved husband. son and daughters our
heartfelt sympathy, and trust they will be com-
forted, in the assurance that “she” is not dead,
but has gone to a brighter and better world. Be
it further—
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be re-
corded upon the record of the Society, a copy be
sent to the bereaved family and also published in
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.	
						FANIE N. BERRY, Treas.
						ANNIE M. SMITH, Sec.
	In behalf of the Cedar Fort Relief Society.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Account of the death of the faithful and dearly
beloved Counselor of Sister Laura E. Pack of
Kamas; Sister Catherine E. Woodard, who de-
parted this life October 2nd 1905, in her thirty-
sixth year. She was born in Kamas, Summit Co.,
Jan. 10th 1869 and though for the last ten years she
has been a great sufferer, she has been a diligent
faithful worker both in public and and private life,
never shrinking from duty, ever tender and true
to those in need. She has left a record that it
would be hard indeed to surpass.
	In the home of her aged grandparents, as also
in the homes of her brothers and sisters she has
been depended upon and looked up to, especially
in times of sickness or trial, as a wise never fail-
ing, ever sympathetic friend. Despite her many
home duties she was for nine years a faithful
worker as Counselor in the Young Ladies Associa-
tion, also for many years a Sunday School teacher
and the last four and a half years of her life, as
Counselor in Relief Society work. It may be truly
said of her “Those who knew her best, loved her
most.”
					LAURA E. PACK,


The death of Mrs. Ellen Salisbury removed
from earth a woman who, through a long life,
filled her sphere with a constancy and devotion to
duty, which were the admiration of all who knew
her and were worthy of emulation. After a ling-
ering but patient illness, she passed away at her
home, Fivepoints, Ogden, on the eleventh of
August, in the eighty-fifth year of her age. She
embraced the Gospel in Preston, Lancashire, Eng-
land, being one of the first converts of President
Heber C. Kimball and emigrated to Utah in
1855. She lived true to the faith to the end, and
even in her last illness gave and sent blessings to
all she knew While in England she composed
the tune to the hymn, “Oh, Say what is Truth?”
Oh! say, what is truth? ’Tis the fairest gem
That the riches of worlds can produce;
And priceless the value of truth will be, when
The proud monarch’s costliest diadem
Is counted but dross and refuse.
Then say what is truth? ’Tis the last and the first,
For the limits of time it steps o’er.
Though the heavens depart, and the earth’s foun-
	tains burst.
Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the
	worst,
Eternal, unchang’d, evermore.
					MARY E. STONE.
					MARY E. PARSONS.
							Daughters.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		MORGAN STAKE.
	The Morgan Stake conference was held
August 17th in the stake house with a
fairly good attendance.
	The General Board was represented by
Sisters P. Y. Beatie and C. S. Thomas of
Salt Lake City. The several branches
were reported as doing the best they can
under the circumstances in which they
are placed. Some are too busy to at-
tend meetings much, but on the whole
there are enough faithful workers to keep
the Relief Society work rolling on in the
Morgan Stake. The Stake Presidency of
the Relief Society make regular visits.
				ANNIE W. CLARK,
							Secretary.
		WASATCH STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Wasatch stake was held June 16, 1905,
in the stake tabernacle, and was well
attended by stake authorities and local
officers.
	Sisters Margaret A. Caine and P. J. M.
Farnsworth, representing the General
Board, were also present.
	Sister Ann Murdock related an instance
that she heard at the first Relief Society

[Column 2]
meeting held in Salt Lake City, that the
Relief Society should spread from north
to south, from east to west; she had lived
to see this fulfilled.
	A lecture was given by Sister Johanna
Jensen on Charity.
	Recitation, “Thy will be done,” Sophia
Lake.
	The visiting sisters gave encouraging
remarks to workers in the Relief Society
cause, also dwelt on need of charity, re-
finement and gentleness among the sis-
ters and girls. Emphasized the necessity
of keeping the lives and memories of the
pioneers fresh in the minds of the sons
and daughters of Zion.
	President Wm. H. Smart desired the
sisters to be loyal to their file leaders and
loyal to all their spiritual and tempo-
ral interests. Paid a glowing tribute to
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, also to the
stake presidency.
	The reports from the various ward of-
ficers given at officers meeting indicated
the work to be progressing in this stake
of Zion.
		SARAH K DUKE, Secretary.
		KANAB STAKE.
	Minutes of the Kanab Stake Relief
Society conference, held at Kanab Sep-
tember 4, 1905. Stake Counselor Eliza-
beth Pugh present and presiding.
	Sang “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Prayer by Counselor E, J. H. Lewis
of the Kanab Relief Society.
	Counselor Elizabeth Pugh made a few
opening remarks; said President Seeg-
miller and Counselor H. E. Hoyt were
absent; also regretted that the visiting
sisters from Salt Lake were unable to
meet with us. A letter from President
Seegmiller, also one from Sister Emme-
line B. Wells were read.
	Sister Pugh reported that President
Seegmiller and Counselor H. E. Hoyt
had visited the stake three months ago,
filled up all vacancies, and that now each
society was in good order.
	The different wards of the stake were
represented and reported by an officer of
each Relief Society as in fairly good work-
ing order, teachers alive to their duties
as a rule, meetings held regularly, and
those in attendance feeling well.
	Instructions given at the conference
were: referring to the duties of the mem-
bers of the Relief Society, our duties to
each other, care for the sick, looking
after the poor and needy, have a watch-
care over the children, our neighbor’s as
well as our own, sustain those in author-
ity over us, and live so that we may have
a claim upon the blessings of the Lord.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Sang “Praise to the man.” etc.
	Benediction by Sister J. W. Seaman.
			PERSIS A. SPENCER, Sec.
		NEBO STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of Nebo
Stake Relief Society convened in the
Spanish Fork 1st ward meeting house
October 9, 1905, at 10.30 o’clock, Pres.
Lilyus C. Page presiding.
	Mrs. Estella Davis rendered a song-
	Pres. Mary A. Hallam, of Spanish Fork
2nd ward briefly welcomed all present at
our conference; prayed for the spirit of
the Lord to be with us.
	The Leland ward was reported by
Prest. Markham with doing the best they
can under the circumstances—have forty
bushels of wheat on hand.


[Column 1]
	Sister Sarah Swenson reported the
society of the 4th ward of Spanish Fork;
they own meeting house and granary,
have between 400 and 500 bushels of
wheat on hand.
	The Salem ward society was reported
by Pres. Mary Ann Pierce: Own meeting
house and granary, have nearly 500 bush-
els of wheat, The teachers are doing a
good work; some have visited every
month.
	Sister Harker, one of the missionaries
from Salt Lake City, felt very pleased to
hear and partake of the good spirit of our
meeting; said we came here not to do
our own will, but the will of the Father.
We should make home the most beloved
place on earth. Spoke of the teachers as
being the backbone of the society. En-
couraged the secretaries to be prompt in
copying their minutes and in sending in
their reports. Her remarks were full of
encouragement and blessing for the sis-
ters.
	Recitation by Sister Rhoda Robinson.
	President Holt invited all to stay and
have lunch.
	Adjourned, after singing and prayer,
until 1:30, o'clock.
	Afternoon meeting recovened. After
the opening exercises, a hymn was sung
by Sister Ann Lewis.
	Stake Counselor Henry Gardner said
he did not know of an organization of so
much importance in the Church as the
Relief Society. The sisters had been
pioneers and home builders. Had some
business to present in behalf of Sister Page,
who was desirous of being released from
the presidency of the Nebo Stake Relief
Society. Proposed that the sisters give
her an honorable release and thanks for
her labors in the past, which motion was
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Eliza J. Dixon was chosen and
unanimously sustained to fill her place as
President of the Relief Society of the
Nebo Stake.
	Sister Page felt very thankful for the
way in which the sisters had sustained
her; felt that they had prayed for her
as well as sustained her.
	Sister Dixon felt that the sisters had
made a mistake in saying that she would
make a better president that Sister Page.
Felt thankful for the support the sisters
had given the presidency in the past,
and prayed they would support her in the
future.
	A song was sung by Sister Anne Rowe.
	Sister Harker was thankful for the
spirit of unity that had been made mani-
fest; spoke of the woman's building; said
we will have one in connection with the
memorial building. Referred to holding
ward conferences, also explained how to
keep up a contingent fund.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp was the next
speaker, who said, we have all been sit-
ting so long, asked all to arise and rest a
while, went through some exercises; felt
glad to look into the faces of the brothers
and sisters. Had been a member of the
Relief Society many years before realiz-
izing the importance of the work and
what it meant when Joseph Smith organ-
ized the Relief Society. We should be
grateful for the privileges and blessings
we enjoy. The greatest honor we can
have is to be a true wife and noble moth-
er; thought we should have charity one
for another. Do not give way to our tem-
pers. Be careful not to wound the feel-

[Column 2]
ings of our little children. Let us learn
to love one another, and be united one
with another; attend to family prayers
morning and evening; spoke of the nurse
class to be taught this year; prayed the
Lord to bless each one of us.
	Sister Page felt that we had had a good
time today, and pleased with the way we
had been entertained-
	Conference was adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Patriarch Wil-
kins.
		MARY F. BROWN, Sec.
SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Snowflake stake was held at Snowflake
August 11, 1905.
	After the usual opening exercises, Pres-
ident Emma S. Smith addressed the
meeting and said: It is a good plan for
the sisters to attend the priesthood meet-
ings. We need the instructions given
by the brethren. I am thankful for the
confidence they repose in us and hope we
will be worthy of it. The sisters have 
offered many prayers for me; and I am
very grateful to them.
	Counselor Driggs said the Stake Board
had visited all the branches of the society
with one exception. They are in good
condition, and the sisters have an excel-
lent spirit.
	Sister Eliza S. Rogers rendered a solo,
accompanied by Mrs. Marie West.
	Sister Janet M. Smith spoke on tithing.
	Bishop John Hunt spoke of the perse-
cution some of our people are receiving
at the present time, and alluded to the
remarks which had been made on tithing.
It is a true principle, and will benefit all
who practiee it.
	Duet by Misses Jennie Kartchner and
Wilmurth Flake, accompanied by Mrs.
Marie West. 
	Counselor Mary J. R. West said, My
ardor in the suffrage work was dampened
when the women of my nation tried to
unseat Senator Smoot.
	President Jesse N, Smith said: “Sister
Smith has placed her resignation as stake
president of the Relief Society at the
disposal of the brethren. She has been
an invalid for many years, and consider-
ing her impaired health at the present
time, ft is not deemed wise to tax her
strength too greatly. She is a prayerful
woman, and one who devoutly believes
the Gospel.” The name of Sister Mary J.
R. West has been selected, and it is sug-
gested she act as Sister Smith's succes-
sor, and on motion President Smith's
resignation was accepted, and a vote of
thanks tendered her and her counselors
for their many years of service.
	President Jesse N. Smith proposed the
name of Sister Mary J. R. West to fill
the vacancy caused by Sister Smith's re-
lease. Vote unanimous.
	President Emma S. Smith thanked the
sisters for releasing her. Said she had
had taken pleasure in the work, and
loved the sisters who had labored with
her.
	Counselor Mary J. R. West paid a
tribute to the faithful labors of Sisters
Smith and Driggs.
	At the close of the meeting the congre-
gation flocked around the outgoing offic-
ers, to express regret at parting with them
and to congratulate Sister West on her
new position.	
	Later Sister West chose Emma L.

[Column 3]
Smith and Belle H. Flake as counselors,
and they were set apart by President
Jesse N. Smith and Smith D. Rogers.

	September 14, a special conference
was called, and we were honored by a
visit from Sisters Dusenberry and Beatie,
of the General Board. Our new presi-
dent, Sister West, who had been to Hol-
brook to meet the sisters, also came in
with them.
	All the ward presidents were in attend-
ance, which is an exceedingly rare occur-
rence in our stake. The branches of the
Society were represented in very much
the same condition as at the last confer-
ence.
	Sister Phebe Young Beatie was intro-
duced as a daughter of President Brigham
Young, and a step-daughter of our dear
Aunt Zina, a relationship she is pleased
to own. She spoke of sewing parties as a
good way to get the sisters enthused, the
benefits of the Kindergarten and the
Nurse's class. Explained in detail what
would be required of the girls who took
the course and the manner in which
homes were prepared for them. Encour-
aged the girls to take the course, as it 
is a profitable employment. Every girl
should learn a useful trade, even if she is
ever so wealthy.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry spoke
on the influence we wield; the irrepar-
able injury done to children by ignorant
mothers, and of the home, its decorations,
etc.
	In the evening an entertainment was
given in honor of Sisters Smith and
Driggs. The house was decorated for
the occasion, and there was a large at-
tendance of both old and young.
	Counselor Dusenberry gave the open-
ing address, which was a beautiful tribute
to the life and labors of these two sisters.
	Sister Beatie extended congratulations,
and gave excellent advice to the young
people. Sentiments expressive of love
and gratitude were given by all the
branches of the Society present, for each
of the sisters.
	President Jesse N. Smith also made re-
marks, and both guests of the evening
expressed gratitude for the honor shown
them and the gifts ef the sisters.
	President Mary J. R. West thanked
all who had contributed to the success of
the evening and approved the sentiments
voiced by the speakers.
	The program was enlivened by several
musical selections, and all seemed well
pleased to close an interesting day in such
an agreeable manner.
		DELLA F. SMITH, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Miss Flora Clift Stephenson, who has
just died, had been elected triennially for
33 years to the school board of Edin-
burgh, Scotland, and had for some years
past been president of the board. She
had also been presented with the freedom
of the city for her great services to the
cause of education. The Scotch are re-
garded as conservative and the Americans
as progressive; yet imagine what commo-
tion there would be if a woman were
placed at the head of the school board in
any large city of this country, outside the
four equal suffrage States.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED.
	Frisco, June 18, 1905.—Pursuant to a
call, the ladies of Frisco, Beaver county,
met in the school house, called by Bishop
Wm. Ashworth.
	After singing and prayer, Mrs. C. C.
Shepherd called a vote as to whether the
ladies wished a Relief Society organized.
The vote was unanimously in favor.
	Mrs. M, E. Ashworth was elected sec-
retary of the meeting.
	The bylaws of the N. W. Relief Soci-
ety were read and accepted.
	The following officers were sustained
by unanimous vote:
	Mary E. Ashworth, president, Margaret
E. Jones and Ella Morris, first and second
vice-presidents; Libbie Fotheringham,
secretary; Edith Chavey, assistant secre-
tar; Harriet S. Farnsworth, treasurer.
	Mrs. Shepherd gave instructions to the
ladies regarding their duties as members
of this organization; said we can be a
great help to the bishop in carrying on
the work of the ward; she believed that
our labors in the society would make us
all better women, and that our home
work would be easier. Spoke of the Moth-
er’s Work, as conducted in our meetings,
and of the help it would be to young
mothers in bearing and rearing their
children. If we do not take advantage
of the opportunities to be educated in the
principles of the Gospel, we shall be un-
der condemnation. Those who take no
interest in public affairs will grow narrow
and care for nothing but themselves.
	Counselor M. A. White said: When we
meet together we draw down the spirit of
God, and that the instructions we re-
ceive are added to by this spirit. The
Lord has provided a way for us to serve
Him, by serving each other. As wives and
mothers we can perform the work of
serving Him better than anyone else in the
world. We will be better ourselves for
having helped another. We can learn
from every one we associate with. If
we see peace and harmony in our neigh-
bors’ homes it gives us a desire to emulate
that example in our own. We must deal
with our children with firmness, but kind-
ly, and there is no place where we can
learn more of this than in our Relief
Society meetings. If we keep our chil-
dren home at night, and control them
when small, the reins will never be taken
from us, It is our duty to assert our
authority, which need not be done in
harshness.
	President of the Stake C. D. White
said: You are now a legal organization,
according to the laws of our state, and
can legally own property, and do good
with it. Every good Latter-day Saint
ought to be willing to help the Relief
Society, that they in turn may help those
in need.
	Stake Counselor J. F. Tolton said:
Charity is not simply helping those in
distress, but is the true love of Jesus
Christ. Let us cultivate a spirit of love,
that we may see the good in others.

[Column 2]
Prayed that in our organization we may
possess a spirit that will make us feel that
we are enjoying a privilege.
	Benediction by Bishop Ashworth.
	After meeting the officers were set
apart by the brethren present.
			L. Farnsworth, Secretary.


[Column 1]				R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
			67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
[--] ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest saving
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No. 1 East Temple Street.


[Column 1]
RABBI FLEISCHER ON WOMAN IN A
		DEMOCRACY.
	Rabbi Charles Fleischer addressed the
Western Massachusetts Federation of
Women’s Clubs in Northampton on
October 4, and his speech made a deep
impression. He said in part:
	“As Grover Cleveland is not now our
‘ruler,’ and his every word is not there-
fore to be regarded as the latest revela-
tion of the eternal wisdom, perhaps you
at least will be inclined to pardon my lese
majeste,’ if I presume to challenge his
recent pronouncement on the subject of
women’s clubs. It is hard for the ‘old
man,’ (I do not mean merely Mr. Cleve-
land, but any old man—any specimen of
that species) to accept the so called ‘new
woman.’ They belong to different his-
torical strata, as it were.
	“New social conditions always produce
new men and women. It is difficult
for the product of the old conditions to
adjust itself to, or to understand the re-
sult of the new. But in human history,
one age is apt to overlap another, so that
the strata are not distinct and several
stages of social development are com-
monly found to coexist upon the same
plane. Thus the old man and the new
woman, and the old woman and the new
man are living in our particular period—
and not the one class in Russia or in
China and the other in England or in Amer-
ica, but the representatives of each, side
by side, in our democratic land, and even
among members of the same family.
	“It is all a matter of individual temper-
ament or human achievement. Some of
us are born into the newest phase of so-
cial evolution, others make a conscious
progress towards it or into it, and others
still serve as brakes or impediments pre-
venting a too rapid social advance. Ac-
cordingly, each of us take rank as old or
new or intermediate. It is not a matter
of calling names or even of making argu-
ment, but simply a matter of registering
what I would term a spiritual fact. Grov-
er Cleveland is as naturally an ‘old man’
as Susan B. Anthony is a ‘new woman.’
	“Let me make my meaning clear. I
have said (and it should be a self-evident
truism) that new social conditions pro-
duce new types of men and women, dif-
fering essentially from one another.
Speaking broadly, I would assert that the
old type of man and woman is the prod-
duct of the hitherto prevalent autocracy
of man-rule in State and church and in-
dustry and the family. Similarly, the
new type of man and woman (that not
yet really is, but is to be) will be the prod-
uct of democracy (which ignores distinc-

[Column 2]
tions of sex and sects and other previous
conditions of servitude)—democracy ap-
plied to politics and religion and indus-
try and the family and every other social
organization and relationship.
	“Plainly, then, democracy is the vastest
enterprise upon which the human race
ever has entered. But I believe in its
complete success. I believe that all
men will in time become completely dem-
ocractic. Meanwhile, fortunate is the
man or woman who is at least touched
by the beauty of the spirit of the new
day. Happy is that person who has
embodied enough of the new principle
to apply it to at least one set of human
relationships. Blessed the people that,
like America, has at least made a begin-
ning with political democracy. The rest
will be added in time. But the complete
democratic people or person does not yet
exist. Therefore, in all of us, more or
less (and usually more) of the old prejud-
ices and attitudes remain, survivals of the
period of male autocracy. Therefore,
too, we are likely to be democratic in one
respect, while remaining undemocratic in
other respects. Thus, for instance, we
find men who are ardent believers in
democracy and are utterly unsympathetic
with the laborers struggle for industrial
democracy. But most males, whatever
their present democratic calibre, balk at
applying the new principle to the con-
cerns of women. And most women are
similarly orthodox regarding their sex.
	“However, the new woman (like the
new man), whlch means the woman who
has been lifted by democracy to the nor-
mal level of human self-respect,—the new
woman is here to stay. She cannot be
written out of existence by Mr. Cleve-
land’s or Lyman Abbott’s magazine arti-
cle. She cannot even be laughed away
by undemocratic men and women along
with that caricature of her noble type
which still commonly usurps the title
and the attention of the genuine new
woman. Shortening her hair and her
skirt and lengthening her tongue does not
make a woman new. But making her,
each according to her capacity, a social
element equal or equivalent to the male
(equal, that is, in social standing and use,
as in individual opportunity),—that is the
sort of women which democracy is to
produce.
			To be continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

