Vol. 34					SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1905						No. 6


CONTENTS.
Idealism in in the Home............. Maria Francis	33
George Eliot in the Coventry Coterie...............	33
In Memoriam....................................................	34
Address by Bathsheba W. Smith.......................	35
Letter from Kentucky.......................... N. C. D.	35
Governors on Woman’s Suffrage......................	35
General Relief Society Conference...................	38
Mothers’ Work ..................................................	40
May Teachers Marry?........................................	40
In Memoriam.....................................................	40
Editorial:—Notice to Stake Secretaries.............	36
Thanksgiving Thoughts.....................................	36
Editorial Notes: .................................................	36
The Relief Society..............................................	33
Poetry:—The Wife’s Lament............... Selected	33
	A Dream of Age................ Maud Baggerly	35
	My Sentiments......................... M. E. R. L.	35


THE WIFE’S LAMENT.
I love that gallant man of mine,
	I love him wondrous well;
That he returns my love he finds
	A thousands ways to tell.
But yet sometimes I almost wish
	We might half strangers be,
So he would smile his sweetest smile
	When looking straight at me.
No matter if his face be dark
	With cares we share together
No matter if our skies be spread
	With clouds that bode ill weather;
Whene’er we meet some friend, he’ll greet
	Her with a smile angelic,
But in a trice the smile is gone,
	Nor left one little relic.
Of course I know; we would not show
	The cares we bear to others;
The crosses we endure must be
	Kept hidden from our brothers.
I know that in his heart he smiles
	For me always, God bless him,
And should I make my foolish plaint
	’Twould but the more distress him.
But O to have the smiles he gives
	To others, though unmeaning,
Bestowed on me whene’er I see
	Our ship of joy careening—
’Tis thus sometimes I almost wish
	We might half strangers be,
So he would smile his sweetest smile
	When looking straight at me.
						SELECTED.


[Column 1]
IDEALISM OF THE HOME.
	When a girl has gone through that
most holy and sacred ceremony—mar-
riage, and has given herself, her heart
and her hand, to the man she loves, and
goes to the home he has provided for
her, and where he expects her to be his
wife in every sense of the word, her first
duty should be to make their home an
ideal one. That is, that nothing should
be wanting to make it her and her hus-
band’s earthly paradise.
	Make it as pretty and artistic as her
means will afford, but avoid going into
debt for it.
	Remembering always, it is not the
most costly homes that are the most
homelike.
	Thomas Hood said:

[Column 2]
“In my little home are found
Both heaven and earth, my universe of love,
All that my God can give me, or remove.
Here I live their living, breathe their breath,
Almost, I think, that with one common sigh,
We might resign all mundane care and strife,
And live together one ethereal life.’
	There should be in the home the one-
ness that Hood speaks of—that each
should strive by thought, word and ac-
tion to meet the wishes of the others;
to make our own wishes and desires sub-
servient to theirs.
	If we can train ourselves to live for
others in the home, this unselfishness
will become part of ourselves, and we
shall carry it with us, and the spirit of
it will be felt outside the home circle.
	It takes two to make a quarrel, never
be the first one. If a difference should
arise, have it settled before bed time,
and never sleep on it.
	 It is well to meet for prayer before re-
tiring, as it brings the members closer
together as a family, and with hearts at-
tuned their prayers will assuredly ascend
to the throne of grace.
	I think that verse in the “Cotter’s Sat-
urday Night” is so beautiful:
“He proffers up to Heaven the warm request
That He who stills the raven’s clamorous nest,
And decks the lily fair in flawery pride,
Would in the way His wisdom sees the best,
 For them and for their little ones provide.
Compared to this Italian trills are vain,
The tickled ears no heartfelt rapture raise,
Nae unison hae they in their Creator’s praise.”
	We cannot aim too high. Let all our
aim in life be high. If for any reason we
have to lower our standard, do it with
grace, for the time, but with the full de-
termination to raise it at the first oppor-
tunity. Fame won by self-exertion mer-
its universal praise.
	The next thing in the home is industry
and system. Remember the old adage:
“A stitch in time saves nine.” Do the
thing that requires doing, if possible, at
the time. “Procrastination is the thief
of time.” Too often, if we put a thing
off it is not done at all, and sometimes at
a great monetary loss.
	System is one of the most important
things to be observed in the home.
“A place for everything and every-
thing in its place.” It takes no longer
to put a thing in its place than it does to
lay it down for somebody—generally
mother—to put away; besides, it saves
time, for there is nothing more annoying
than to have to hunt for a thing when
you want it; and nothing that tires a
man’s temper more. The husband has
but little time, usually, and although I do
not think a man should expect to be
waited on hand and foot and set up to
be worshiped by the whole household
more than the rest, still I think that un-
necessary annoyance should be saved
him. He is the bread winner, and we
should consider his time as valuable, and
render him all the assistance possible to
prevent irritation; send him off to his
work with a full stomach and a happy
heart, and above all things, let him

[Column 3]
feel the love that is borne him in the
home, and make him feel that “there is
no place like home,” after the exertions
and worries of the day.
	A wise mother will set the children
their allotted tasks. It is a mistaken
kindness on the part of mothers to do
everything when the children can help.
Give them their time to work and their
time to play, which is a preparation for
the life they should look forward to in
the future. If they are allowed to idle in
childhood, be sure they will be good for
nothing men and women when they grow
up, “Blots on the face of the earth.”
	Shakespeare says:
“What can ennoble sots and cowards?
Not all the noble blood of all the Howards.”
	Laziness leads to bad companionship,
which is the stepping stone to every vice
under the sun. It is said, “It begins in
cobwebs and ends in iron chalns,”
	The more we do, the more we can ac-
complish, which is fully proved by many
of our good sisters,
	We learn by it to economize time and
make the best of every quart[-]r of an
hour. It is not the grind it appears when
cheerfulness and contentment go with
the work. A mother never makes a trou-
ble of the work the little ones make
her. The dirty window panes, the sticky
furniture, because love goes with the
work.
	Why, there is nothing that makes work
so easy and fills the heart with so much
joy. It is a manifest sign of wisdom.
Solomon says, “A contented mind is a 
continual feast;” I know it is a continual
joy.
	Home! What music in the word! We
live at home, and we hope to die at
home. So that the comfort of the home
is of more deep, heartfelt and personal
interest to us than the public affairs of all
the nations of the world.
	Let every woman feel in her heart of
hearts, there is no place like home; and
be it a palace or a cottage she will be a
happy woman, and her home will be an
Ideal one.
				MARIA FRANCIS.


GEORGE ELIOT IN THE COVENTRY
			COTERIE.
	How does the death of a friend set the
mind gathering up all the broken threads
of an old friendship snapped by absence!
As memory brings up your friend’s like-
ness out of her treasure house, how does
she sit side by side with it in the same
gallery, other faces that belonged to your
friend’s peculiar sphere, and who made
up the life that has now passed beyond.
Some have passed the same way; others
are making the same review of the chap-
ter as you are yourself.
	Thus I have been engaged since I
learned of the death of Mary Sibree (later
Mrs. John Cash), one of the early friends
of “George Eliot,” and who formed with
the Bray trio that little charmed coterie


[Column 1]
at Rose Hill, Coventry. During the years
of her girlhood they constituted her
world. Mrs. Cash says, “As we closed
the Bray’s garden doors together, I re-
marked, we seemed to be entering Para-
dise. Marian Evans said, ‘I do indeed
feel that I shut the world out when I shut
that door.’”
	One of my last visits on leaving Eng-
land was a farewell one to Mrs. John
Cash, who lived in the same “Rosehill”
that had formerly been the Bray’s Para-
dise. “The inevitable regret,” writes
George Eliot to Mrs. Cash, “of their
moving is softened as much as possible
by the fact that the house has become
yours,” They moved only to a long
stone’s throw, so the intercourse was un-
interrupted, excepting that it was now
without the phenomenally attractive Ma-
rian Evans.
	I remember being shown “Foleshill,”
where she had lived with her suffering
father—the window over the porch where
she did her studying—and the shady spot
on the Rosehill lawn where the philo-
sophical discussions went on with so
much animation, and not without tender-
ness.
	Sara Hennell was the great philosopher
among the young ladies. I remember
years afterwards the great Charles Darwin
saying to me, “Do you know that Miss Hen-
nell has been spinning philosophy out of
my scientific facts? She has sent me her
new book about it, but for the life of me
I can’t make out head nor tail out of it.”
	I laughed, adding, “We must not tell
Miss Hennell that when we see her next.”
She sometimes came to stay with another
neighbor of ours, near the little village of
Downe, in Kent, Miss Bonham-Carter,
who had been a pupil of Miss Hennell’s
at one time.
	Her sister, Mrs. Bray, I recollect as
having one of the most angelic looking
faces I have ever seen. Beautifully fair,
and sweet, with soft, light auburn curls.
She was just as clever in her way as her
sister Sara, only it took a more practical
form, and her books could be understood
by anybody. In 1863, years before the
thought occurred to anyone else, Mrs.
Bray published “Physiology for Common
Schools,” of which book George Eliot
says: “I thank you, dear Cara, not simply
for giving me the book, but for having
put so much faithful labor in a worthy
direction, and created a lasting benefit
which I can share with others.” Later
she was the pioneer in another school
topic, which is now—thirty years later—
beginning to take its proper place in the
moral education of our children, that of
fostering the spirit of kindness to animals.
At the time I saw Mr. Charles Bray he
had been bitten by the love of Phrenol-
ogy, and talked very interestingly on it.
He is well known by his work, “The
Philosophy of Necessity,” ect.
	Mr. Bray had been a ribbon manufac-
turer of Coventry. He lost his money at
the time of the so-called ribbon famine in
Coventry. It was at this juncture that
the old mother of the Cash’s gave them
her inspiration, that the costly machinery
could make cotton instead of silk ribbon,
to be “fulled up” for frilling. So long ago
as this, woman’s brain was capable of in-
ventiveness! At the time of the “ribbon
famine” my friend, Mrs. Cash, worked
herself into an illness striving to help the
starving operatives. The result of this

[column 2]
illness was a very learned book, which
she intended to be an illustration of that
startling work, “Ecce Homo.” For a
long time the authorship was a puzzle;
eventually solved by Prof. Seeley be-
coming known as the writer. As puzzling
was the true identity of George El-
iot. For two years did that remain a
mystery. Not even could her Coventry
friends guess it to be their “Marian.” It
seems to have been maintained on ac-
count of the way the world regarded her
union with George Lewes. This union
threatened at first to break up the tender
feeling of the old-time coterie. For sev-
eral months no letters seem to have been
exchanged. Miss Hennell was evidently
the first to condone it. In the following
year, 1855, a letter was written in answer
to a remonstrating one from her sweet
friend, Mrs. Bray. She says: “We are
working hard to provide for others better
than we provide for ourselves, and to
fulfill every responsibility that lies upon
us. * * * Light and easily broken
ties are what I neither desire theoretically
nor could live for practically. Women
who are satisfied with such ties do not act
as I have done.”	
	The divorce laws of England were ex-
ceedingly strict, and allowed no loophole
of escape for Mr. Lewes from his first
most utterly uncongenial marriage, whose
true ties had been, I believe, already sev-
ered in reality by his wife.
	I remember hearing at the time of their
son Thornie’s long illness and subsequent
death in 1869, she came to see her son in
George Eliot’s home.
	Mrs. Cash was staying with us, I think,
about the same year, when she saw her
old friend again for the first time since
she had united herself with George Lew-
es. It was one of her weekly at-home
days at the ‘Priory.” Mrs. Cash said on
return that there was a string of great
people’s carriages drawn up outside the
gates. Excepting the knowledge that the
step had at last been condoned by the
“upper ten.” it was poor pleasure to Mrs.
Cash to meet her friend again, with her
warm heart and tender ways, beneath the
eye of the public.
	Just as we went to make our home at
Downe, we found that George Eliot had
but lately vacated “Blackbrook,” Chisel-
hurst, within four miles of us. She had
stayed there a few months as an experi-
ment, in order to find out whether it
would be desirable for a country home.
Some friends of our own went to live at
Blackbrook, with its “fine lawn and grand
trees,” immediately afterwards—a sister
of Sidney Dobell, the poet. I need hard-
ly say how redolent the house seemed on
my first visit with its former famous occu-
pant, George Eliot. People who knew
her there spoke of her as being a great
invalid most of the time, but generally her
health always improved on moving away
from London.
	At the beginning of her literary life,
when she was working at journalism, it
seemed necessary to live there, but when
her successful fiction pushed journalism
into the background, it seems a great
pity that she did not eschew London
with its poor air, its yellow fogs, smoke
blackened bricks and mortar, acting as it
did as a perpetual depressant to George
Eliot’s highly sensitive temperament,
But for these anti-climatic influences it
seems as though she might have been

[Column 3]
here yet, with the still deeper “satisfac-
tion,” as she says of her first book, “in
having done a bit of faithful work, that
will remain like a primrose root in the
hedgerows, and gladden and chasten hu-
man hearts for years to come.” She did
live long enough to see the wish fulfilled,
expressed in a letter io Miss Hennell:
“If I live five years longer,” she writes in
1857, “the positive result of my existence
on the side of truth and goodness will
outweigh the small negative good that
would have consisted in my not doing
anything to shock others; and I can con-
ceieve no consequences that will make
me to repent the past.”
	Long after that she pens this testimo-
ny: “I am very happy—happy in the
highest blessing life can give us, the per-
fect love and sympathy of a nature that
stimulates my own to healthful activity.”
At the commencement of their “dual
solicitude”—as she expresses their life
together—one is struck with the way the
two brick led to the perpetual mill of
journalistic work, grinding out articles
and reviews on all kinds of abstruse sub-
jects for the “Westminster” and other
magazines, in order to provide an educa-
tion for Mr. Lewes’ sons. The marvelous
success of her fiction must have indeed
come in as a blessed relief to all this
“grind” to a woman after suffering from
frail and feeble health.
	In comparing George Eliot with the
Russian mathematician Sonya Kovalevs-
ky (whose life has lately appeared), an-
other woman with “a man’s head and a
woman’s heart,” how incomparably more
happy for George Eliot that she became
the wife of a man of whom she could say,
in words to the same effect, as each suc-
ceeding year she closed her journal: “My
happiness deepens, the blessedness of a
perfect love and union grows daily.”
						SELECTED.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	To the memory of Mary Jane Wheelan, who
departed this life September 23, 1905.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has in his infin-
ite wisdom called from our midst our beloved sis-
ter and co-laborer, Mary Jane Wheelan, and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation with her
and the discharge of her duties in the society
makes it eminently befitting that we record our
appreciation of her, and feel comforted in the as-
surance that, if worthy, we will meet and enjoy
her society again.
	Resolved that we extend to the bereaved our
sincere sympathy and pray God that His comfort-
ing influence may be with them, and lead their
hearts to acknowledge His goodness even in their
sore bereavement.
	Resolved, by the sisters of the Third Ward Re-
lief Society, that we mourn our loss and that we
appreciate the purity of her life and the worthy
example she has set us to follow. Be it further
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be pre-
sented to the family of the deceased; be placed
on the records of our society and a copy be sent to
the Exponent and our local paper for publication.
Gone to a peaceful, happy rest,
Free from life's grief and pain,
Worker, beloved, has joined the blest,
Our loss is Father's gain.
MARY E. ABEL,
ANN E. CLAYSON,
CARRIE. E. DALHEN.
In behalf of the Third Ward Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


A DREAM OF AGE.
BY MAUD BAGGARLEY.
Grandmother sits alone in the sun
And watches the leaves fall one by one,
And thinks, as the wind bears each away,
Of the friends she loved in the yesterday.

The husband and babes sleep under the mould
And youth and love, like a "tale that is told"
Have long since vanished into the past
And the dream of the present is fleeing fast,

But the sun, the wind, the rain of today
Beat only upon a house of clay,
Back, far back, in the realm of the past
In the palace of dreams she dwells at last.


MY SENTIMENTS.
Lord grant me grace from day to day,
And strength to do Thy will,
Oh may I walk in wisdom's way,
And all Thy laws fulfill.

And when my days on earth expire,
Dear Lord, remember me,
For its my soul's sincere desire
That where Thou art, there I may be.

And join with all the heavenly host,
To sing sweet songs of praise,
To Father, Son and Holy Ghost,
In never ending days[-]
M E. R. L.


ADDRESS OF BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
	[Read at the Large Tabernacle, Salt
Lake City, March 17, 1892.]
MY DEAR BROTHERS AND SISTERS:
	I rejoice that I have lived to see this
day—the Jubilee of our Relief Society.
	Fifty years ago this day our beloved
Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society
in Nauvoo.
	After the organization was perfected,
and the president, Sister Emma Smith,
and her counselors, Sister Whitney and
Sister Cleveland, had taken their seats
upon the stand, eighteen members were
admitted.
	Hundreds joined the Society within a
year.
	Brother Joseph met with us many times
and gave us much counsel and valuable
instruction. He said: "Every virtuous
woman should belong to this Society. The
organization is not only for the purpose
of administering to the sick and afflicted,
the poor and the needy, but it is to save
souls. If the sisters come before the
Lord in humility and faith and lay hands
upon the sick, and the Lord heals them,
none should find fault. If ye are pure in
all things. nothing on earth or in heaven
can hinder the angels from associating
with you."
	At one meeting he said he would not
be with us much longer to instruct us.
This made us all feel sad. His words
soon came to pass, and wrung our hearts
with sorrow and grief for the great loss
we had sustained in losing our dearly be-
loved Prophet—for a true prophet I know
he was.
	It has been a "labor of love." The sick
and destitute have been blessed, the cast
down have been comforted, and the Lord
has filled our hearts with joy and peace.
	Let us take renewed courage and be
more united and earnest in this great
work; and if anyone has ill feelings to-
wards another, banish them and make
this a jubilee in very deed.
	May the choicest of Heaven's blessings
rest upon all Israel is my prayer, in the
name of Jesus. Amen,


LETTER FROM KENTUCKY.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR SISTER:—I received your most
kind and welcome missive yester eve.
We were glad to have a word from you,
and also that you had received the pay-
ment for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, for I
love to read it. It is a help to me in va-
rious ways.
	No, ma'am, I do not see the Elders
very often; but am very glad to see them
when I do. There are not enough mem-
bers in this part of the country for the
Elders to visit, or for any of them to
come often. You will please continue to
send the WOMAN'S EXPONENT to Cisney.
I have a son there who takes my mail
out of the office and keeps it for me till I
go home. My present address is only
temporary.
	I am teaching school and will be here
only a few months. Yes, Brother Smith
sent me the receipt for the money re-
ceived for the paper. Thanks to you for
sending the same. I am a widow and
have to make a living the best I can. I
have been working and trying to get to
Zion about twenty years, and have not
succeeded yet. I am so very anxious to
come to Zion and visit the temple and
receive the holy ordinances of the same.
I  thought I had arrangements made so I
could get there this next year; but, alas!
disappointment has come to my expected
plans. I often wonder and think why is
it that I cannot get there, Then I think
perhaps, I am not living just as I ought,
so I would be permitted to go and receive
those holy ordinances. I am really desir-
ous to receive the patriarchal blessing
from the hands of the patriarch, also the
blessings from the higher ordinances of the
Church. I do not know what to do more
than I have done, only to stand still and
try to pray for help continually. I feel
so very weak in the spirit and faith that
I do not know what to do at all. You
may say I am all alone in the Gospel
here, fighting as best I can in my own
weak way.
	Now desiring the prayers of the Saints
also of President Smith that I may have
faith and intelligence, and be strength-
ened in body and mind in all things, that
I may be able to do a great work in
everything that is right for me to do. also
if I still continue to teach school, to have
wisdom, understanding, knowledge, pa-
tiance and intelligence; also all the qual-
ities I need to make me successful at all
times in everything my heavenly Father
would have me do. I desire to say at
all times and places, "Not my will but
Thine be done, O my Father in heaven."
But I often think how weak and frail the
poor weak creature of the earth is, and
that we can do nothing at all of ourselves,
but all our strength must come from our
Father in heaven through His Son Jesus
Christ.
	Now, dear sisters and brethren, one
and all, pray for me that I may be able
to do my Father's will at all times, and
be more and more obedient, relying
wholly on Him in all things, and live in
word and deed, action and thought, to do
His holy will, so that I may be able to
receive the many blessings He has in
store for me. Now, hoping to hear from
you soon, I remain,
N. C. D.
Oct. 30, 1905.


GOVERNERS ON WOMAN SUFFRAGE.
	A letter was lately sent from the Na-
tional Suffrage Headquarters to the Gov-
ernor of each State and Territory, asking
how he stood on woman suffrage. An-
swers were received from 35. Three
frankly expressed themselves as opposed,
six were too busy to give a detailed opin-
ion, and several were non-committal.
	Among those expressing themselves in
favor were Gov. W. L. Douglas of Massa-
chusetts, who wrote: "I am on record as
a member of the Legislature of 1883, 1884,
and 1886 as favoring the suffrage for wo-
men."
	Gov. Robert M. La Follette of Wiscon-
sin wrote: "In reply to your question as
to whether I believe in the principle of
woman suffrage, I reply in the affirma-
tive."
	Gov. George C. Pardee of California
wrote: "I see no reason why women—
simply because they are women—should
not have the privilege of the suffrage."
	Gov. John H. Johnson of Minnesota
wrote: "I am a thorough believer in
woman suffrage."
	Gov. John H. Mickey of Nebraska:
"When I was in the Nebraska Legislature,
twenty-four years ago, I voted "aye" on
the submission of a suffrage amendment
to the voters of Nebraska. I have never
had occasion since to change my views."
	Gov. W. C. Blanchard of Louisiana:
"When the intelligent women of Louisi-
ana, or a majority of them, make a de-
mand for woman suffrage, men holding
the opinions I do would not resist the de-
mand for it."
	Gov. George E. Chamberlain of Oregon:
"I hope that this State will give women
the ballot, and I hope that every State
will do it."
	Gov. Hoch of Kansas: "Municipal suf-
frage in Kansas has worked no ill to wo-
manhood or to the State, and it seems to
be satisfactory to the people. Let the man
who thinks his mother, wife, sister or
sweetheart cannot contribute as much vir-
tue and intelligence to government as he
can, vote to disfranchise them. I think
better than that of the women who are
near and dear to me, and of women in
general—hence I vote the other way.
	"Again, taxation without representa-
tion is wrong in theory and practice, and
opposed to the genius of our government.
	Gov. F. R. Gooding of Idaho: "I am
very strongly in favor of woman suffrage,
and regret that I have not time to tell you
all the benefit it has been to Idaho poli-
tics."
	Gov. John C. Cutler of Utah: "I have
been for a long time, and still am, con-
vinced that it is both right and desirable
for women to have the privilege of the
suffrage. Utah has been an equal suffrage
State ever since Statehood was granted,
and my observation has led me to believe
that the results of giving the franchise to
the women have been beneficial."
	Gov. Jesse F. McDonald of Colorado:
"I am a firm believer in the principle of
woman suffrage."
	Governor Brooks, of Wyoming: "Wy-
oming holds the distinction of being the
original Territory and State to grant equal
rights to women, and we have never had
reason to regret our action in that matter,
as woman suffrage here has been uniform-
ly successful and materially helped in
placing our politics on a higher plane."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, U[---]
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	A[-]vertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpa[--]el
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street; Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s[-]cond-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, - NOVEMBER, 1905


NOTICE TO STAKE SECRETARIESr
	The Stake secretaries of the Relief
Society are reminded that the yearly re-
ports are to be made for the year 1905,
from January 1, to December 31, and it
will be a good thing to give notice to all
the branches in the respective stakes so
that there may be a full and complete
record, noting all the changes in officers,
new branches organized, condition of
grain stored as well as the amount on
hand; number of buildings in the stake,
owned by the Society, etc. Address
General Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Templeton Building, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING THOUGHTS.
	Perhaps there has never been a more
auspicious time to celebrate Thanksgiv-
ing than this present year of our Lord,
1905. The country is prosperous, as a
whole, commerce, agriculture, education,
all seem to indicate the season's height
of material enjoyment of the good things
of life; there is really no poverty com-
paratively speaking in this glorious land
of liberty, those who are not able to pro-
vide for themselves are cared for in such
generous ways, that on Thanksgiving day
and indeed almost every other day, there
is no lack of good food, suitable raiment
and good cheer. The churches generally
provide well for their own respective
poorer members, and charitable and phil-
anthropic societies throughout the land
extend hospitality in the most appropri-
ate ways to all without waiting to inquire
into all the details of individual lives.
	The Salvation Army supplies all the
hosts that other people neglect, and great
credit is due them for looking after and
extending a helping hand to the poorer
and neglected, and even the forsaken.
	Thanksgiving is a bea[-]tiful custom and
one that promotes family reunions, and
in bringing together socially those [-]ho
are related by kindred or friendly ties,
cements the good fellowship which exists
and lightens the burdens of everyday
cares and vexations. The commingling
together calls forth the finer sentiments
of the heart, and the glad countenances
evince the joy and pleasure felt in meet-
ing at the festive board, even though the
fare be ever so simple, because it is sea-
soned with heartfelt gratitude and thanks-
giving to the Author of all blessings and
benefits.

[Column 2]
	A song of praise wells up in every heart
whether expressed outwardly or not; the
very atmosphere of the home circle is
filled with a realizing sense of the infinite
goodness and mercy vouchsafed to all
mankind. We cannot be too thankful for
this time-honored custom which has come
down to us from our forefathers and fore-
mothers, whose simple lives and habits
in those early days of frugality and often
scarcity, yet gave to us this blessed obser-
vance of rejoicing for one day in the
harvest season, when the grain has been
garnered and the fruits of the tree and
vine been stored for the winter-time.
	No doubt the appetizing viands suggest
good humor and story telling especially
of the past, and this very cheerfulness
favors digestion; and altogether the rec-
ollections awakened even of those who
are gone to "a better land" are good for
us all, and the new comers into the fami-
ly circle help to banish regrets and to
hold out inducements for future gather-
ings of a similar nature; and the soul is
strengthened for higher purposes, and
the way seems brighter (at least for the
time) for we forget ourselves in thinking
of others.
	Youth and age meet together, the baby
and the grandmother, and the association
not so much of effort to please, as the
spontaneous enjoyment that comes from
the inner springs of life, renews courage
and gives another aspect to what is
around and about us.
	Such occasions are really the true poetry
of life itself, for they fill a longing for ex-
pression, and even those who seem dull
and silent are glad to hear the old songs,
and to listen to the stories of past ex-
periences, and actually find themselves
interested.
	People get nearer to each other even if
the feeling is unexpressed, and such gath-
erings are not forgotten, but come back
to men and women "From some odd corner
of the mind," with vivid appreciation long
years after, and call up the tender ties
that bound them in the shadowy past.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

The Daughters of the Revolution State
Society held the November meeting on
the 16th inst. at the home of the Chap-
lain, Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie. The
meeting was a sort of Thanksgiving festi-
val and was very enjoyable. Stars and 
Stripes, banners and bunting, with autumn
leaves and chrysanthemums were deftly
arranged and the long table laid with
snowy linen, dainty china, handsome old
silver and cut glass, and the most appetiz-
ing display of old-fashioned doughnuts
and pumpkin pies, turkey, sweet potatoes
and hot rolls, and a large pumpkin bas-
ket in the centre filled with choice fruits.
The ladies assembled did ample justice to 
the feast. The topics of the day were
given at the table, Patrick Henry by Mrs.
E. B. Wells, discussion on the subject
followed in which Mrs. John D. Spencer
furnished supplementary facts of great
interest. Major-General Heath by the
hostess was the other topic of the day,
but in looking backward in years to come
the Thanksgiving conversation and the
dear ones present will be the memory
that will linger, when the topics are for-
gotten.


A few old friends, mostly those of her
girlhood were present by invitation at the
home of Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson on
the 28th of October. It was the anniver-
versary of the day of her marriage fifty
years, half a century; the hostess wore
her "wedding gown." a lovely soft helio-
trope silk; the rooms were fragrant with
the perfume of roses and other flowers,
and the congratulations of her friends
were as sweet and wholesome as the
beautiful roses and even more lasting, for
these will be remembered when the last
rose is faded and gone. It goes without
saying that the delicacies prepared by
this most hospitable hostess for the delec-
tation of her guests were of the choicest
and best, and so was the goodly company
there assembled. After partaking of the
refreshments, reminiscences of the past
were indulged in and the absent ones ten-
derly alluded to with fond hopes of meet-
ing them nevermore to be separated.
	Such occasions awaken the tenderest
emotions and make life sweeter and bet-
ter for the days that are commonplace,
thanks to the gracious hostess whoever
she may be, who adds one link more to
the golden chain of heart to heart friend-
ships.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
EXTRACTS FROM RECORDS.
	First organization of L. D. S. Relief
Society, and instructions given by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith.
	By invitation of the President of the
Church, a number of sisters convened in
the Masonic Lodge room, on the 17th of
March, 1842, President Joseph Smith,
Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards
were present.
	President Smith stated that the meet-
ing was called for the purpose of making
more complete the organization of the
Church by organizing the women in the
order of the Priesthood.
	John Taylor was called to the chair
and Willard Richards acted as secretary.
After singing and prayer, a vote was taken
to know if all were satisfied with each
sister present, and willing to acknowl-
edge them in good fellowship and admit
them to all the privileges of the institu-
tion about to be organized. All being
satisfied, the names of those present were
taken as follows:
	Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira
A. Coules, Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe
Ann Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook, Desde-
mona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth Jones, Le-
onora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia
Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sophia
Robinson, Philinda Herrick, Phebe M.
Wheeler, Sophia R. Marks.
	President Smith then explained some
of the duties that should devolve on mem-
bers of the society, said they could pro-
voke the brethren to good works, look
after the needs of the poor, and perform
charitable acts. Women must assist in
correcting the morals and strengthening
the virtues of the community. Said it is
now in order for the sisters to elect a
President to preside over the Society and
let her choose two counselors to assist in
the duties of her office. He would ordain
them and let them preside just as the


[Column 1]
Presidency presided over the Church, and
if they needed his instruction they could
ask and he would be pleased to give it
from time to time. Let the Presidency
serve as a constitution and their deci-
sions become precedents for you to act
upon.
	If officers are wanted to carry out the
designs of the institutions, let them be
appointed and set apart, as Teacher,
Deacons, etc., are among us.
	Elizabeth A. Whitney moved, and
Sophia Packard seconded the motion that
Emma Smith be elected President of the
society, the vote was put by the chairman
and pronounced unanimous. The Presi-
dent Elect made choice of Sarah M.
Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as
her counselors.
	Eliza R. Snow was appointed Secretary
and Phebe M. Wheeler assistant Secre-
tary and Elvira A. Coules, Treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith read the Reve-
lation to Emma Smith from the Doctrine
and Covenants, and stated that she was
ordained at the time the Revelation was
given, to expound the Scriptures, to
teach, etc.
	He then read the Scriptures to show
that an elect lady is one elected to pre-
side. By request of President Joseph
Smith, Apostle John Taylor ordained
Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, to be counselors to and assist
President Emma Smith in the duties of
her office, and share in the blessings per-
taining thereto.
	He then confirmed on Emma Smith her
former ordination and blessed her to be a
mother in Israel, a pattern of virtue and
to possess all the qualifications necessary
to enable her to preside with dignity and
give such instruction, as may be requisite
in her calling as an Elect Lady.
	Elder Taylor vacated the chair and
President Emma Smith and counselors
took the stand.
	A lengthy discussion followed on the
question, "What shall this Society be
called?" Mrs. Cleveland and Whitney
advocated the appropriateness of the
name Relief Society. John Taylor and
Joseph Smith spoke in favor of the word
Benevolent, Emma Smith and E. R.
Snow argued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland's
choice. The gentlemen withdrew their
objection and a motion to adopt the
name Relief Society was unanimously
carried.
	Pres. Joseph Smith then said, "I now de-
clare this Society organized with presi-
dent and counselors. And who shall
hereafter be admitted must be free from
censure and admitted by vote. President
dent Joseph Smith laid down a five dollar
gold piece to commence a Relief Society
fund and said, "What I do hereafter for
charity, I shall do through this society,"
Sarah M. Cleveland gave 12 ½ cts. Sarah
M. Kimball, $1.00, Emma Smith, $1.00,
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, 50cts., Willard
Richards, $1 00, John Taylor, $2.00.
	At the 3rd meeting of the Society,
March 30th, President Joseph Smith said,
the members of the society must act in
concert, or nothing can be accomplished.
To move according to the ancient Priest-
hood, this must be a select society, sep-
arate from the evils of the world.
	Sixth meeting, April 28th. President
Joseph Smith said he was present to
speak upon the Priesthood, and his in-
structions were intended only for mem-

[Column 2]
bers of the Society, he wished those not
members to withdraw. After which he
called attention to the 12th chapter of Co-
rinthians, "Now concerning spiritual gifts,"
etc., said the passage which reads, "No
man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but
by the Holy Ghost," etc., should be trans-
lated "No man can know," etc., contin-
ued the reading of the chapter, and gave
instructions respecting the different offices
and the necessity of every individual act-
ing in the place allotted to him or her,
and filling the office to which they were
appointed.
	Spoke of the disposition of some to
consider the lower offices in the Church
dishonorable and to look with jealous
eyes on the position of others; said it was
the nonsense of the human heart to aspire
to positions not appointed of God, that
it was better for individuals to magnify
their respective callings and wait patient-
ly till God shall say to them, "Come up
higher," said it was talked by members of
the Society that some were not doing
right in laying hands on the sick. If they
had common sympathy, they would re-
joice that the sick could be healed. The
time has not been before when these
things could be in their proper order. The
Church is not now organized in its proper
order and cannot be until the temple is
completed. He referred to the commis-
sion given to the ancient Apostles, "Go
ye into all the world," etc., no matter
who believes these signs, such as healing
the sick, casting out devils, should follow
all that believe, whether male or female,
	If the sisters have faith to heal the sick,
let them do so, and let the good work roll
on. It is no sin for anybody to adminis-
ter to the sick that has faith, or if the sick
have faith to be healed by the adminis-
tration.
	Reproved those that were disposed to
find fault, spoke at some length on the
difficulties he had had to surmount ever
since the organization of the Church, on
account of aspiring men, said the same
aspiring disposition will be in this Society
and must be guarded against.
	As he had the opportunity he would in-
struct the Society how to act according to
the will of God. He did not know that
he should have many opportunities of
teaching them, they were going to be left
to themselves, they would not long have
him to instruct them, the Church would
not have his instruction long and the
world would not be troubled with him a
great while, according to his prayer God
had appointed him elsewhere. The con-
gregation was melted to tears.
	He exhorted the sisters to sustain with
their confidence, their faith, and their
prayers, those whom God had appointed
to lead. Said the keys are about to be
given to you that you may be able to de-
tect anything false, as readily as the Eld-
ers. If members of the Society become
corrupt, you must deal with them, the
sympathies of the heads of the Church
have induced them to bear with those that
were corrupt, in consequence of which
all become contaminated, you must put
down iniquity and by your good example
provoke the Elders to good works.
	If you do right, there is no danger of
going too fast, resist evil, and there is no
danger, neither God, men, angels or dev-
ils can condemn those that resist every-
thing that is evil. As well might the
devil seek to dethrone Jehovah as that

[Column 3]
soul that resists everything evil. You are
now placed in a situation where you can
act according to those sympathies which
God has planted in your bosoms. If you
accord with your privileges angels cannot
be restrained from being your associates.
	Women if they are pure and innocent
can come into the presence of God. If
we would come into the presence of God
we must be pure. The devil has great
power, his ways are deceptive. Do not
be contentious, but let the weight of in-
nocence be felt, which is more mighty
than a millstone hung about the neck,
meekness, love, purity, these are the
things that should magnify us.
	Iniquity must be purged out, then the
veil will be rent and the blessings of
heaven will flow down,
	After this instruction you will be more
responsible; it is an honor to save your-
selves, all are responsible for themselves.
Then read the 13th chapter of Cor.,
"Though I speak with the tongue of
men," etc., said do not be limited in your
views in regard to your neighbors' vir-
tues, do not think yourselves more right-
eous than others. You must enlarge your
souls towards others, if you would do
like Jesus and carry your fellow creatures
to Abraham's bosom, He had manifested
long suffering and we must do the same.
	Said, "Though one have the spirit of
prophecy," etc., though one should be-
come mighty and do great things, over-
throw mountains, and then turn to do
that which is evil, all former deeds would
not save them, but they would go to de-
struction. As you increase in innocence,
virtue and goodness, let your hearts ex-
pand, let them be enlarged towards
others, you must be long-suffering and
bear with the faults and errors of man-
kind. How precious the souls of men!
The society is to get instruction through
the order which God has established,
through the medium of those appointed
to lead, and I now turn the key to you in
the name of God, and this Society shall
rejoice and knowledge and intelligence
shall flow down from this time, this is the
beginning of better days for you.
	When you go home never give a cross
word, but let kindness, charity and love
crown your works. Do not envy sinners,
exercise mercy towards them.
	Let your administrations be confined
mostly to those around you. As far as
knowledge is concerned, it may extend to
all the world. But your administration
should be confined to the circle of your
acquaintance, and more especially to the
members of the Society. Those ordained
to lead the Society are authorized to ap-
point officers as the circumstances shall
require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be
in your own tongue, do not indulge too
much in the gift of tongues, or the devil
will take advantage.
	You may speak in tongues for your
comfort. But I lay this down as a rule,
that if anything is taught by the gift of
tongues, it is not to be received as doc-
trine.
	President Smith then gave instruction
respecting women administering to the
sick by the laying on of hands, said it was
according to revelation, he never was
placed in similar circumstances and never
had given the same instruction.
	At the ninth Relief Society meeting,
May 26th, the Prophet read the 14th


[Column 1]
chapter of Ezekiel, and said the Lord
had declared by that prophet that the
people shonld each one stand for them-
selves and depend on no man or men; in
the state of corruption in the Jewish
Church, the righteous persons could only
deliver their own souls. Applied it to the
present condition of the Church of Lat-
ter-day Saints. If the people depart
from the Lord, they must fall, they were
depending on the Prophet, hence there
was darkness in their minds.
	He had two things to recommend to the
Society. Be guarded in your speech, no
organized body can exist without giving
heed to this caution. All organized bod-
ies have their peculiar evils, weaknesses
and difficulties, the object is to make
those not so good equal with the good,
and ever hold the keys of power which
will influence to virtue and goodness.
	When you chasten and reprove, never
mention it again, then you will be estab-
lished in power, virtue and holiness and
the wrath of God will be turned away.
God designs to save the people out of 
their sins. Jesus said, "Ye shall do the
works which ye see me do," these are the
grand key-words for the Society to act 
upon. 
	The tenth meeting was addressed by
Bishop N. K. Whitney, President Joseph
Smith being present. 
	Eleventh meeting, June 9th, President
J. Smith, "It grieves me that there is no 
fuller fellowship, if one member suffers
all feel it, by union of feeling we obtain
power with God, Christ said He came to 
call sinners to repentance and to save
them, Christ was condemned by the 
righteous Jews because He took sinners
into His society, He took them upon the 
principle that they repent. Nothing is so
much calculated to lead people to forsake
sin, as to take them by the hand and 
watch over them with tenderness. The 
nearer we get to our Heavenly Father,
the more we are disposed to look with 
compassion on perishing souls. I say to
this Society, if you would have God have 
mercy on you, have mercy on each other.
How mild the Savior dealt with Peter,
saying, "When thou art converted,
strengthen thy brethren," at another time
He said to him, "Lovest thou me? Feed
my sheep." The Society is not only to 
relieve the poor, but to save souls.
	Sixteenth meeting. held in the Grove,
August 31st, 1842. After relating rceent
difficulties he had encountered while be-
ing hunted by his enemies, he said the Re-
lief Society has taken an active part in 
my welfare, in petitioning the Governor
in my behalf. These means were nec-
essary, and your influence helped to 
bring about my redemption from the 
hands of my enemies. I have come here
to bless you. The Society has done well,
their principles are to practice holiness.
God loves you and your prayers shall
avail much, do not cease to let them as-
cend to God in my behalf. The enemy 
will never get weary. I expect he will ar-
ray everything against me, expect a trem-
endous warfare. He that will war the
Christian warfare will have all the powers
of darkness continually arrayed against
him.
	A few things had been manifested to
him during his absence, respecting bap-
tism for the dead, which he would com-
municate next Sabbath if nothing should
occur to prevent it. He then offered a

[Column 2]
fervent prayer to God in behalf of the 
Society. After the transaction of some
business in the adjustment of which Pres.
Smith offered counsel, said he had one
more remark to make respecting baptism
for the dead, which must suffice for the
present until he had the opportunity to
present the subject at a greater length.
	All persons baptized for the dead must
have a recorder present, that he may be
an eye-witness to testify of it. It will be
necessary in the Great Council that these
things be testified of. It should be at-
tended to from this time. If there is any
lack, it may be at the expense of our
friends. This was the last R. S. meeting
that President Joseph Smith attended.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General semi-annual Conference of
the Relief Society was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly hall, Thursday, October
5, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Bathsheba W. Smith presiding. Open-
ing hymn, “Glory to God on high,” pray-
er by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. Sister White
took charge of the singing, which was
furnished by the Granite Stake sisters.
Roll call. showing a large attendance of
representatives from the several Stakes.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith made
an address in which she commended the
sisters for their good works and felt to
congratulate all on the splendid attend-
ance, as it was larger in numbers than at
any previons conference, felt proud of the
labors of the faithful sisters, and urged
them to take care of the youth of Zion
as well as to assist the needy and nurse
the sick. She realized the magnitude of
the work and its importance, and exhorted
one and all to maintain their integrity to
the Gospel and bear testimony of the
truth.
	Reports from presidents were called for
and President Mary John of Utah Stake,
gave a summary of the financial condi-
tion of the Society in that Stake, and re-
ferred to her recent serious illness and her
gratitude for her restoration to health
which enabled her to be present with us
today; spoke of the false teachers and
preachers rising up to lead the weak and
doubting ones astray.
	Sister Leah Blackburn reported Wayne
Stake in excellent condition.
	The sisters from Granite Stake rend-
ered the hymn composed by Sister Emily
H. Woodmansee, for the Relief Society
Jubilee, “Daughters of Zion, the friends
of the poor,” Sister Green leading, Sis-
ter Emilie Maeser accompanist.
	Relief Society Los Angelos branch was
reported by President Eliza Woollocott,
she stated they were differently situated
there from the sisters in Zion and conse-
quently their labors differed from ours,
they assisted the Elders and mission in
various ways, and were doing everything
possible to promote Gospel work; had
some hindrances, yet were prospered in
many respects.
	President Jane S. Richards, Weber
Stake, spoke upon “Visiting and Healing
the Sick.” She referred first to the Sav-
ior's baptism, then related some of her
experiences in the Church and the inci-
dent concerning her baptism, and the
opposition that was raging at that time;
she had been given up by the physician,
etc., she was as one raised from the

[Column 2]
dead after the baptism; told many inter-
esting circumstances in her journeyings
in the Church when the power of God
was made manifest. and appealed to those
present to train their children in the true
Gospel, of which she bore a strong and
earnest testimony; believed that faithful
mothers' prayers would be answered in
regard to their children, when they do all
in their power to teach them right; en-
couraged all present to take part in the
work of the Relief Society; it would be of
the greatest benefit and would make
their daily duties lighter.
	Solo, Beatrice Thomas of Granite
Stake, “Not, Not There, my Child.”
	Singing, “Oh, Jesus, the Giver.” Ben-
ediction President Margaret A. Romney.
	Afternoon session, 2 o'clock, President
B. W. Smith presiding. Singing, Sister
Margaret C. Hull leading, “Glorious
things of thee are spoken.” prayer Sister
Julia P, M. Farnsworth, singing, “For
the strength of the hills we bless Thee,”
accompanist, Sister Lizzie Thomas.
	President B. W. Smith greeted all with
a happy greeting, she was especially
pleased to see so many Relief Society
workers assembled, wanted them all to be
strong in the faith of the Gospel and teach
its principles to their children, generally
I think they do know it is right, remem-
ber we have it direct from the holy an-
gels through the Prophet Joseph Smith,
with the power and authority, and we
have the privilege to bless the sick and to
comfort those who are cast down, and it
is a great thing to have this testimony
ourselves, and that we keep the com-
mandments of God; let our religion be
first and foremost, and manifest that we
belong to the Church and kingdom of
God, I take more pleasure in hearing
others speak instead of speaking myself
and I believe in short speeches and short
prayers, I pray you may be comforted
and blessed, and continue faithful in our
most holy faith, and I bless you all.
Amen.
	President Williamina Erickson, North
Sanpete Stake, gave quite a definite ac-
count of the conditions existing among
the people in that locality, there had been
much sickness and some deaths, spoke of
the financial status of the Relief Society;
they have two good halls and one in
course of erection, some wards own lots,
and expect to build in the near future;
felt the mothers' work an advantage and
hoped through that to reach the fathers
as well as the young mothers.
	President Annie R. Duke, Wasatch
Stake, made a fine report of work done;
she referred to leaving Nauvoo in 1846 at
the time of the exodus, crossed the plains
in 1852, her father's family had endured
much hardship in the experiences of those
days.
	President Lilyus C. Page, of Nebo
Stake, reported the Stake in a flourishing
condition in a temporal way, building
halls, saving grain, making quilts and
homemade carpets; had visited the whole
Stake regularly; and the Tintic district
recently added to Nebo from Juab had
been visited once; the poor and sick were
well cared for and the union meetings
were held regularly on the same day as
the Priesthood meetings
	Duet, two young girls from Ensign
Stake, fine singers, Misses Poulton.
	Sister Hattie Blair, recently returned,
reported the branch in New York City,


[Column 1]
the work they do there is very important,
and has been very effective, she gave a
good account of the meetings and the
spread of the Gospel.
	President Addie Cazier of the Juab
Stake said they had taken up the Book
of Mormon since they got through the
mothers' work, she testified it had been a
blessing, they were anxious the young
mothers should join the society.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, referred to the great distances
they had to travel in visiting—a thousand
miles—and not a mile of railroad, they
were very proud of their Stake, much
credit is due the people for energy and
perseverance, they had a good opening in
the Muddy Valley, she had great hopes of
that country, the Lord had blessed them,
etc.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke on the spirit
of Relief Society work, giving her views
of the importance of entering into it with
one's whole soul, felt it was a wonderful
development for the sisters, the greatest
and grandest organization of women in
the world.
	Sister Julina L. Smith spoke upon
"Business Methods in the Home," Sister
Smith discussed this subject in all its
phases; asked the question, "What does
it take to establish any kind of business?"
Union and order, everyone should have
a share in the home, to do some of the
work; each one doing the part allotted to
her, etc.; thought there was a very great
difference between economy and stingi-
ness, spoke particularly upon the art of
bread making., and gave many useful,
suggestive hints on housekeeping.
	Sister Margaret C. Hull sang a solo,
"There is no song but has a minor
strain," "The Echo."
	Choir sang "The trials of the present
day," etc. Benediction, President Annie
S. Musser.
	Conference  continued in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, Monday, October 9, com-
mencing at 2 p.m., President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding. Singing. (Sister
Lizzie Thomas Edward having gracious-
consented to take charge of the singing.)
"Come let us anew," prayer by Sister
Mary A. C. Lambert, singing "Redeemer
of Israel."
	President B. W. Smiith, in her opening
remarks, welcomed all most cordially,
felt it a great pleasure to see the large
congregation of sisters, wished she could
take every one by the hand, but that
would take too long; she felt a great love
for them, and a desire to know each one
personally; spoke of her feelings when-
ever she heard the hymn, "Redeemer of
Israel," it reminded her of the time when
they were wandering on the desert land,
she and her sister, they had been sent
from the state, and felt indeed they were
wanderers and in sorrow, for the Prophet
Joseph was in prison, and no one knew
what would transpire—it was a time of
sadness. "I feel to bless you all, and say
Peace be unto you and in your homes,
and may we all prove faithful and true."
	President Annie Wells Cannon report-
ed the Relief Society of the Pioneer stake
for the first time, though they were or-
ganized a year ago last April, spoke of of
ficers' meetings being well attended,
thought President M. I. Horne and her
co-laborers had left the branches in such
order, that it had been comparatively easy
for those coming after them to take hold

[Column 2]
and carry on the work; thought the ward
conferences were a great benefit in get-
ting the society work before the people,
hoped that every woman in Zion would
have her name enrolled, "because it is a
roll of honor;" prayed we might increase
in numbers and have the blessing of the
Lord to help us in our labors.
	President Margaret A. Romney felt it
a great honor to represent the Ensign
stake, for it was in a thriving condition.
She used to think the 20th ward was the
best society, now she thought the seven
branches were all the best; they had
grand lectures on mother's work. Sister
Romney spoke highly of all the work in
the stake and of the help and support the
Relief society was to the Bishops, and
the appreciation they expressed of its
benefits.
	Solo by Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward,
"The Divine Redeemer," music by Gounod.
	President Sarah A. Colton was glad to
be present and sorry not to have been
able to attend with us on Thursday; said
she had been called to preside in the
stake a year ago last May, but had been
President in Vernal ward sixteen years;
had a desire to assist in the upbuilding of
the society and to minister to the dis-
tressed and those bowed down with sor-
row and trials. They were reading chap-
ters from the Bible and giving Book of
Mormon lectures in the society meetings,
the sisters asking questions; they had tes-
timony bearing, and were striving to
make some progress; she was interested
in saving grain, thought some had been
wasted because of not having places to
keep it secure.
	President Alice J. Call, Star Valiey
stake, said in that stake they were in a
very scattered condition, some sisters
walk two and three and some six miles
to attend meetings. The attendance did
not average half the membership, but she
had great charity for those who did not
attend, because she knew the circum-
stances; it was not a grain country, the
wheat was often frozen before it was ripe,
and generally speaking the people had to
buy their flour; the Bishops all realize
the benefits of the Relief Society.
	President Annie S. Musser, of Liberty
stake, gave an excellent report of the
work in that stake, and how much the
sisters enjoyed their labors, praised the
teachers, and spoke enthusiastically of
the work of the Church in general, and
blessed the presiding sisters and all who
were laboring in the glorious work of the
Lord in these latter days; rejoiced in all
that was being done for the upbuilding of
Zion in the earth.
	Sister Emily J. Anderson, late president
of Tooels stake, reported the affairs of
the Relief Society there as being in good
condition; she had visited around the
stake recently; a number of quilts had
been made and sold to good advantage,
and some given to the poor, the money
used to build with of those sold, felt the
society was doing a good work.
	Sister Rebecca E. Little gave an in-
structive lecture on the "Life of Christ,"
which we may hereafter publish in brief
if not in complete form.
	President B. W. Smith, at the close of
Sister Little's lecture, related an incident
in her own life. She said once when she
was real sick, the Prophet Joseph came
to see her; she was too bashful to ask
him to administer to her, but as he left

[Column 3]
he laid his hand on her head and she was
healed and got up well.
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose spoke upon
"Loyalty." Said to her the word had a
golden sound, felt that it is a great thing
to be true; in the family loyalty should
stand guard and each one true to the
other, and not allow the failings in the
home to go out. Referred to the course
pursued by some mothers of telling their
boys' bad actions; felt it was a bad prac-
tice; the boy's faults should be kindly re-
proved aside, not corrected before others.
In our Relief Society we should be true
and sustain each other, and be loyal. I
sometimes wonder if we are as loyal as
we ought to be to each other. It is our
bounden duty to pray earnestly for our
beloved president, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, and her counselors, and all who
work with her. It [-]s a pleasure to listen
to those who can stand up and say, I
knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, and we
hope Sister Smith may live many years
to tell us of him, for he was a prophet
and a wonder. Now we are all filled with
loyalty to him and the work he estab-
lished. Think of the sorrow of the
Prophet Joseph Smith when he looked
among those who should have been his
friends and knew they were false. I am
sure it would have melted a heart of stone
to have listened to President Joseph F.
Smith yesterday at the close of the Con-
ference, when we had a baptism of bless-
ing from his mouth," closed by exhorting
all to be faithful and true.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde felt she owed
an apology for coming in late, but she
had been talking with strangers at the
Bureau of Information; said she had al-
ways attended the Conferences of the
Church ever since the days of "the bow-
ery," but had never attended a confer-
ence like the one yesterday. Surely
President Smith's testimony showed the
power of the Lord; thought no trials
were counted too great by her parents.
Let us teach our children the Gospel and
to attend to all the duties, and let us be
at our post always, and see that good men
are elected to govern, and use all our op-
portunities, and try to be a benefit; strive
to remember the blessings that come to
us through faith.
	"The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing" was sung by the congregation, led
by Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward. Ben-
ediction by Sister Annie C. Woodbury.
	Conference adjourned until seven
o'clock at the same place.

		(To be continued.)
		EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Emery stake of Zion was held at Price,
October 31, 1905. The stake officers
were all present, also President John H.
Pace and Counselor Henry G. Mathis.
The conference began at 10 a.m., Presi-
dent Mary A. Sorenson presiding. Sing-
ing' "How Firm a Foundation." Open-
ing prayer was offered by President John
H. Pace.
	President Mary A. Sorenson welcomed
all and gave a short report of the Relief
society of Emery stake.
	President Henrietta Hill reported the
Wellington society. A vocal solo, "Lord
Thou Wilt Hear Me When I Pray," was
rendered by Sister Nellie Wilson of Price.
	A lecture on "Infancy," from Mother's


Plan Work, was ably and interestingly
given by Sister Lucinda C. Curtis, of Or-
angeville. A report of the Castle Gate
society was given by President Elizabeth
Young, who also gave some of her early
experiences in the Church.
	President Henry G. Mathis spoke of
Relief society work in general and the
good that is being done by the same.
Singing, "Praise to the Man who Com-
muned with Jehovah." Benediction by
Secretary Maria Allen.
	Afternoon session at 2 p.m.  Singing,
"Redeemer of Israel." Invocation by
Sister Anna Miller. Singing, etc. Roll
called and seven Relief society branches
represented. Secretary Allen read the
minutes of the previous conference, also
the stake financial report for the year
ending Dec. 31, 1904, which were unani-
mously accepted.
	Instrumental music rendered by Sister
Violet Flack of Price.
	Stake Counselor Mary J. King spoke
on the duties of officers and members of
the Relief society. President Rhoda
E. Robertson reported the Orangeville
society. A vocal solo was rendered by
Sister Griffiths of Castle Gate. Counselor
Maria Guymon spoke on a mother's du-
ties to her family, and keeping the Sab-
bath day holy. Elder  Robert Green-
wood, of Price, on missionaries and Re-
lief society work. Elder H. E. Curtis, of
Orangeville, on the raising and training
of children.
	Secretary Maria Allen spoke of the
General Conference and visiting the Dr.
Groves' L, D. S. hospital.
	President John H. Pace spoke on punc-
tuality. 
	Bishop Ernest S. Horsley, of Price, ad-
vised all to teach children to remember
the important events of their lives.
	Stake President Mary A. Sorenson
thanked all present, and especially the
Price sisters, for helping to make the con-
ference a success.
	Singing, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," etc. Benediction by Sister
Isabella Bryner.
	MARIA ALLEN, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money. TRY US

IN MEMORIAM.
MARY WARREN.
"Like weary and worn out children, that sigh for
	the daylight's close,
He knows that they oft are longing, for home and
	its sweet repose;
So He calls them in from their labors, ere the
	shadows o'er them creep,
And silently watching o'er them. He giveth His
	loved ones sleep."

	She has gone! As the news spread over the little
town, it carried sadness to the hearts of her many
friends. Though we knew she had gone to her
long earned rest, our hearts were touched; for we
hated to say "good bye" to one we loved so
dearly.
	Sister Mary Ancox Warren passed away Novem-
ber 2nd, 1905, at her daughter's residence, Mrs.
Kate Day, of Oasis.
	She was born in Tyson, Middlesex, England,
December 21st, 1824; baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the year 1844;
came to Utah in 1874. She was the wife of Ed-
ward Warren and mother of fourteen children,
seven of whom are living.
	It is twenty-two years since Mrs. Warren was
separated from her mate, whose life blended so
harmoniously with hers. We must be content
when we know that our loss means some one's
gain. She has lived with her daughter, Mrs. Day,
since her husband's demise.
	Sister Warren's one great desire was to serve
God and work in His kingdom. She knew His
teachings well and never lost an opportunity of
expounding His principles and praising His good-
ness  She labored for many years as president of
the Oasis Relief Society, always alive to her duty
and putting forth such effort in her work that her
light shone and every member of the society felt
its radiance. She was honorably released from
this position on account of the responsibility being
too gre[-]t for her health, which was not good.
	Mrs. Warren never tired in well doing, she re-
mained an active teacher in the ward until the
time of her death. She was a woman of great
strength of character and executive ability. We
shall miss her words of counsel, cheer and comfort;
For we know her many loving deeds and appre-
ciate her many noble qualities, which will ever 
live in the memory of her friends.
	May her bereaved sons and daughters be com-
forted in the assurance that their mother is not 
dead, but has gone to continue her labors in a
higher and better world. 	D.H.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
	  Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
	  The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
 	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
	  We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


MOTHER'S WORK
		KANAB STAKE.
				I.
	(a) Self-culture for mothers. (b) What
the result will be upon the children.
				II.
	(a) Child helplessness. (b) Necessity of
care and patience.
				III.
	(a) Child confidence. (b) How it should
be rewarded.
				IV.
	(a) Child helpfulness. (b) What trait
of character may it not develop?
				V. 
	(a) Child's love for stories. (b) What
kind of stories to be told. (c) True
stories preferable.


VI. 
(a) Child's desire for knowledge. (b)
Asking questions. (c) Parents should
seek to answer all questions to the under-
standing of the child. 
			VII. 
(a) What to teach our boys. (b) How
to be pure in their lives. (c) How to 
treat the opposite sex. 
			VIII.
(a) What to tell our girls. (b) To
have confidence in mother. (c) How to 
conduct themselves in the presence of 
young men.
			IX. 
(a) Peace making. (b) Value of peace 
at home and with neighbors. (c) Love
your neighbors—do unto them as you 
would have them do unto you. (d) Ev-
ils of backbiting.
	Cleanliness in person and the home.
			XI.
		INDUSTRY.
(a) Value of moments. (b) Economy
of time and means.
			XII
		PUNCTUALITY.
(a) Always on time. (b) Cultivate hab-
its of punctuality.
		PERSIS A. SPENCER, Sec.
Kanab Relief Society.


MAY TEACHERS MARRY?
	We are inclined to smile when we read 
that the resident Fellows in an English 
university are forbidden to marry, and
memory instantly reverts to the long mo-
nastic tradition which is even yet  in con-
trol of education there. But what think
ye, my masters, of the fact that that same
monastic tradition obtains in practically 
all the public schools of the entire United 
States, or rather did obtain there until
the Court of Appeals of New York hand-
ed down a decision a few days ago, deny-
ing the right of the Brooklyn School
Board to enforce its by-law to the effect 
that "should a female principal, head of
department, or teacher marry, her place 
shall thereupon be declared vacant"
The court held that there was no author-
ity in the school board to make or en-
force any law at all on the subject, and 
so put an end to enforced celibacy in
education in one small section of our
country; but it still obtains almost every- 
where else. 
	Celibacy in education is an awful 
thing; it takes the woman out of life to
make her a school teacher. It forbids 
her to have children of her own in order
that she may go on teaching other peo-
ple's children. If she marries, she is
driven out of the school room, though
the mother-and-child relation is the very
one that should best fit her for the work
of teaching. What an unlovely calling
this is which forbids the bulk of those
who follow it to lead a normal human 
life! Is it any wonder that most people
hesitate to enter upon it, knowing that it
involves the taking of all three of the


monastic vows—poverty, obedience and 
celibacy? What an awful thing it is to 
follow a profession that one must desert 
just as soon as she begins to live nor-
mally! Yet the t[-]me is coming, and it is 
not far off, either, when the married wo-
man will no longer be driven out of the 
school room, but will be at a premium
there.
	Dr. Harris seems to think that there 
are none but celibates teaching now. He 
says that "no teacher has a right to com-
plain on a socialistic basis if he is receiv-
ing a salary for his annual services, of 
$600," since the income of the nation is 
only $551.56 per inhabitant.—Western
Journal of Education.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
