Vol. 34	SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, MARCH, 1906		No. 9


CONTENTS. 
Mary R. Gray..................Emma J. Bennett.	57
Mothers’ Work.............................................	58
Errata...........................................................	58
Memorial Meetings.....................................	59
Miss Anthony at Home...............................	59
R. S. Reports:—Morgan Stake....................	61
	Nebo Stake—Alpine Stake—Uintah
	Stake....................................................	62
	North Sanpete......................................	63
Relief Society Anniversary..........................	63
Anniversary:—Iosepa, Skull Valley............	
	........................Ellen K. Makaiau, Sec.	63
In Memoriam...............................................	64
Obituary.......................................................	64
Rabbi Fliesher on Woman...........................	64
Editorial:—Miss Susan B. Anthony—........
	The Lion House Party..........................	60
	A Happy Social Event.........................	61
Poetry.—Life as a River......Lydia D. Alder	57
	The Birth of a Century Louise Coulson
	Two Mothers.............Maude Baggarly	59


LIFE AS A RIVER. 
	INSCRIBED TO MRS. E. B WELLS.

A river winding on and on,
	Ne'er still nor resting by the way,
By verdant hills 'neath forest shades, 
	Through silent night or burning day.
Anon in valleys gently flows, 
	Sings there in lazy undertone; 
Its current slow, no ripple's crest
	Is foaming in the pathway's lone.

Defined its course by foliage
	More dense or sparse as rich the land; 
Or like unto a co'ling thing, 
	It shimmers o'er the golden sand.
Through mountain pass it rushes wild, 
	Then thund'ring dashes down below;
O, awe inspiring its descent
	Amid a phosphorescent glow!

A little brook or murm'ring stream,
	Would babble on unto the end;
But crystal springs send rivulets,
	Mingling they in volume blend.
No life can be lived in a day,
	No time for love or tenderness;
No flowers growing by the way,
	To thrill beneath the wind's caress.

But like the harp so famed of old,
	A thousand strings of melody--
That quiv'ring 'neath a gentle touch
	Are tratic--fierce struck ruthlessly,
To peace are stilled its throbbings wild,
	Its chords vibrating tune regain;
Divinely sweet the songs it sings--
	It trembles with the loved one's name.

All devious is the way ofe life,
	And other lives are in it wound;
So beautiful of it a part,
	By ties eternal firmly bound.
All wise the destined course of life,
	To gather gems of priceless worth;
From one to multitudes unknown,
	For an inheritance of earth.
				LYDIA D. ALDER

With love.
February 28, 1906.


[Column 1]
[Portrait of a woman]
			MARY R. GRAY.
	Sister Mary R. Gray departed this life
Nov. 21, 1905, in Idaho Falls, Idaho. On
the 6th of November, 1905, in company
with Sister Emma Jane Bennett, she left
Salt Lake City for the north, pleasure
and business bent, and to meet with and
renew old time friendships and acquain-
tances formed long years ago.
	On reaching Ogden a few hours were
very pleasantly spent with Bro. B. J. Ben-
nett and family.
	In the evening we resumed our journey
northward, reaching Idaho Falls, our ob-
jective point, Tuesday, Nov. 7th, at 7 p.m.
We were met at the depot by Brother
Tister, Gilbert J. Wright and Oscar A.
Johannesen and driven to the latter’s
home.
	After a visit of two days we took train
for Shelley, a small but thriving little
town, situated eight miles south of Idaho
Falls, and partook of the hospitality of
Thos. J. Bennett and family.
	We returned Sunday evening for the
express purpose of attending a R. S. Con-
ference, which was held on Monday even-
ing, Nov. 13, in the Falls.
	Aunt Mary, by which name she was so
well and favorably known, retired quite
early in the evening, and from every ap-
pearance in her usual good health.
	It proved, however, to be her last rest-
ing place until her noble spirit took its
flight.
	Apparently she fell into a sweet slum-
ber, without any sign of ache or pain, but
grew weaker and weaker until the end
came.
	Her passing away was as if falling into
a peaceful sleep.
	All was done that loving and tender
hands could do for her comfort and resto-
ration, but the Allwise Ruler of mortal
beings decreed otherwise.

[Column 2]
	When the final summons came her old-
est daughter Minnie and many friends
were at her bedside, and witnessed the
passing away of one of God’s noblest
daughters.
	Aunt Mary was born in Toronto, Cana-
da. in the year 1833, and was thus in the
72nd year of her life.
	With her parents and two brothers they
migrated to Kirtland in 1837, to cast
their lot with the body of the Church, and
later to Richmond, Ray County, Mis-
souri. 
	She passed through the trials of those
early days of the Church in Ohio and
Missouri, with a strong and lasting con-
viction that Joseph Smith was a seer, rev-
elator and prophet of God.
	With her mother, two brothers and
three sisters she reached Salt Lake City
in 1861, which has been her home contin-
ually ever since.
	In 1862 she married Andrew Scott
Gray. They had born to them seven
children.
	Her sincere devotion to the great Lat-
ter-day work soon brought her in close
touch with the leading sisters of the
Church.
	In October, 1877, when the Relief So-
ciet was reorganized in the 15th Ward, she
was set apart as a teacher.
	January, 1889, she was chosen first
counselor to President Sarah M. Kimball
until the latter’s demise.
	December, 1898, she was again chosen
first counselor to President Harriet A.
Badger, daughter of Prest. John Taylor;
and held this office until the ward was
divided in 1903.
	She was frequently honored on her
birthday by those sisters that loved and
knew her best. On one of these occasions
about 30 sisters were present when Sister
Zina D. H. Young spoke in tongues and
the interpretation thereof given by Sister
Catherine Evans, which brought joy and
consolation to their hearts.
	Her sympathetic heart and deeds of
charity to the sick and afflicted were the
crowning features of her well spent life.
	She was a bosom friend of Sister Pres-
endia Smith Kimball.
	The latch strings of the doors of her
domicile were always out for Conference
visitors and innumerable friends.
	Hers was the first home to receive, with
joy, the babe born in that sacred edifice,
the Temple, at the time of its dedication,
in 1893.
	From her sweet and motherly lips could
often be heard, “Always room for one
more,” until every room under the peace-
ful roof could be seen strewn with beds.
	Her remains were brought to Salt Lake
City for interment, accompanied by Em-
ma J. Bennett, A. J. Gray and Mary W.
Gray, and laid peacefully away in the city
cemetery.
	Her funeral was largely attended by
sympathizing friends.
	The speakers, who all paid a glowing
tribute to her memory, were President
Joseph F. Smith, Apostles John Henry


Smith and Charles W. Penrose, Elders
Nephi L. Morris and Homer Duncan, the
latter her old captain in crossing the 
plains, and Bishop George H. Taylor.
	Peace be to her ashes. 
		EMMA J. BENNETT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK.
		R. S. UINTAH STAKE.
			Subjects.
	Our boys and girls as fathers and
mothers of the next generation.
	Lecture 1.—Parental culture and force
of example. Reference: Doctrine and
Covenants, Testimony, Book of Mor-
mon and questions.
	Lecture 2.—Current events of the
Church. Reference: Era, Our Times.
	Lecture 3.—Etiquette in the home. Ref-
erence: Any good authority in Church
works, magazines or journals.
	Lecture 4.—Life of Joseph Smith.
(Govern yourselves on the time of lec-
ture.)
	Lecture 5.—The objective point of view
Reference: Testimony.
	Lecture 6.—Book of Mormon and
questions.
	Lecture 7.—Current events.
	Lecture 8.—Etiquette in the home.
	Lecture 9.—Life of Joseph Smith.
	Lecture 10.—Through the law of here-
dity. Testimony.
	Lecture 11.—Book of Mormon and
questions.
	Lecture 12.—Current events.
	Lecture 13.—Etiquette in the home.
	Lecture 14.—Intemperance. Reference:
Testimony.
	Lecture 15.—Book of Mormon and ques-
tions.
	Lecture 16.—Current events.
	Lecture 17. Etiquette in the home.
	Lecture 18.—Life of Joseph Smith.
	Lecture 19.—Physiological Psychology
down to wild oats. Testimony.
	Lecture 20.—Book of Mormon and questions.
Lecture 21.—Current events.
	Lecture 22.—Etiquette in the home.
	Lecture 23.—Life of Joseph Smith.
	Lecture 24.—Wild oats down to part
second. Testimony.
(Signed) PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec.

		ENSIGN STAKE.
		Mothers’ Work.
			Lecture 1.
	(a) The ideal mother.
	(b) The over-indulgent mother; the
self-indulgent mother.
	(c) What about the father?
	(d) What is most desirable in a
mother?
	(e) Are our girls being prepared for
ideal motherhood?

			Lecture 2.
	The Ideal Mother (continued.)

[Column 2]
	(a) How much may Church or society
expect of mothers of young children?
	(b) Co-operative motherhood. Let
mothers occasionally take care of children
of their friends; giving opportunity for
meeting going, special work, sewing,
etc.
	(c) Each mother responsible for con-
duct of all children in her home.

			Lecture 3.
	(a) Plan carefully each day’s and
week’s work.
	(b) Stated times for sleeping and eat-
ing.
	(c) People should not be needlessly
disturbed during sleep.

			Lecture 4.
		Economy in the Home.
	(a) Economy of time.
	(b) Use of baskets and trays in carrying
things from basements, store-rooms and
tables.
	(c) Economy in buying.
“He who buys what he does not want,
Will sometimes want what he cannot
	buy.”
	(d) Advantages and disadvantages of
wholesale buying.
	(c) As much judgement required in
spending as in earning money.

			Lecture 5.
	Economy in the Home (continued.)
	(a) The sinfulness of waste.
“Wilful waste makes woeful want.”
	(b) The example of the Savior in the
Feast of the Loaves and Fishes.
	(c) Small savings in the fuel, lights,
food, clothing, etc., aggregate much.

			Lecture 6.
		Neatness in the Home.
	(a) Personal appearance.
	(b) Taste in dress. Do not wear visit-
ing or street dresses for house work. Per-
cales or wash goods are suitable for home
work.
	(c) The advantages of aprons and work
sleeves.
	(d) Table manners.
	(e) Selfishness and unselfishness at
table.
	(f) Handle no food but your own.

		Program Committee.
			Lecture 1.
		Children God’s Best Heritage.
	(a) Illustrate from the lives of Sarah,
Rebecca and Rachel.
	(b) Their great desire for children.
	(c) Posterity—Abraham’s reward for
his faithfulness.
	(d) Marriage should be between people
of the same faith.
	(e) Give Bible references. Isaac and
Jacob.

			Lecture 2.
			Moses.
	(a) His birth. Pharaoh’s cruelty in
destroying Israelitish children.

[Column 3]
	(b) God’s preservation of Moses through
the agency of his mother, sister and
Pharaoh’s daughter.
	(c) Barbarous destruction of children at
the birth of Christ and of Moses.
	(d) Compare with prenatal destruction
of children at present time.

			Lecture 3.
		Moses (continued.)
	(a) Egyptian civilization and the splen-
did education of Moses.
	(b) His discipline in the wilderness as
a preparation for his future work.
	(c) His call to be leader of Israel.
	(d) The laws of today—the outgrowth
of the laws of Moses.

			Lecture 4.
		Moses (continued.)
	(a) The Ten Commandments.
	(b) Treat each one separately, making
application to our daily life.

			Lecture 5.
		Moses (continued)
Sanitation, Hygiene and Foods of Mosaic
			Laws.
	(a) Read Leviticus chap. XI.
	(b) Talk on Hygiene, selection of prop-
er food and good cooking.
	(c) Read Leviticus, Chap. XIV, and
note the care taken to prevent the spread
of leprosy.
	(d) Talk on sanitation and the preven-
tion of contagious diseases.

			Lecture 6.
		Moses (continued.)
	(a) Read the song of Moses Ex. Chap.
XV.
	(b) Read Ex. Chap. XVI, the Lord
provides quails and manna for the chil-
dren of Israel.
	(c) Compare with the miraculous pres-
ervation of the Saints on their journey
across the plains and in the early days of
Utah.
	(d) Incidents of the quails, gulls and
crickets.
	(e) Relate other incidents of a miracu-
lous nature.
	Program Committee.
					S. E. Stewart,
					M. C. Roberts,
					E. S. Wilcox.
			M. A. ROMNEY, Pres’t.
			A. K. HARDY, Sec’y,


ERRATA.
	In the January number of the paper an
error occurs in the poem "No Farewell,"
by Lydia D. Alder, in the fourth verse,
the last word of the last line should read,
"interwove," instead of interwoven; and
in the second line of the first, the little
word "to" alters the meaning; the line
should read: "To go means but return
some other day. And in the poem "to-
day," in the February number of the paper, in the second line of the second
verse the word "tug" instead of "try."
"None ever reach it; try as they may."
It is very trying for the poet and we are very sorry errors should occur.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE BIRTH OF A CENTURY.
The clanging bells tolling the midnight hour.
The hands on the dial, in the old church tower,
Moving with measured time.
In silent prayers with hearts bowed down,
The dying year receives the crown;
Well done, thou faithful child.
But hark! the chimes all trembling tell
A new born year, and all is well.
With hope and faith we welcome thee,
Oh, bring us love, content and peace;
In thee all bloody wars shall cease,
The human race exalted be.
Louise Coulson.
Salt Lake City, Utah.


TWO MOTHERS.
	BY MAUD BAGGARLEY.
		(Mother of Jesus.)
Oh, Mary, thy name is exalted!
	Great was thy mission on earth,
Thou didst not mother the race of kings,
	But gavest the Savior birth.

That tiny baby in the manger low,
	The man who was wise and good,
Was he but to thee thy first born son,
	’Til ’neath the cruel cro[-]s thou stood?

Ah, then didst think on that holy birth?
	Thy mother’s heart with anguish rent—
Didst think as darkness covered earth,
	That the boy tho’ thine was heaven sent?

*		*		*		*		*		*

		(Mother of Judas.)
And thou, forgotten and nameless one!
	To thee also, the mother’s crown was given,
Thou loved into life a wayward son,
	Now outcast from earth and from heaven.

When thou didst return from the “Valley of
		Death,”
	With a heart filled with exquisite joy,
Didst thou in thankfulness glorify God
	As thou clasped in rapture the boy?

And when the wee one to manhood had grown
	With heart harden’d ’gainst counsel and love,
Did the heart of a mother cling to him still
	And plead for grace from above?

Thou didst mother a traitor and coward, I ween,
	Bringing sorrow and shame unto thee.
But thou couldst not forget that he slept on thy
		breast,
	Thou couldst not forget that he played at thy
		knee.

Oh, thou, and not Mary, was “Mother of
		sorrows.”
	Didst feel in thy heart thou wert crucified too?
Oh, Great God of Heaven; Thy children do
		thank Thee,
	For the gift of the “mother heart,” steadfast
		and true.


[Column 1]
MEMORIAL MEETINGS.
	Rabbi Charles Fleischer spoke on Miss
Anthony during the services of Temple
Adath Israel in Boston on March 24. He
said in part:
	"In the last analysis, as in the first, wo-
man's rights are human rights. Indeed,
the interests of each are the concern of
all. No one of us is really free while slav-
ery exists anywhere. No one of us has
justice while injustice claims its victims.
No one is safe while tyranny holds sway
over another.
	For Miss Anthony equal suffrage, though
a necessary achievement, was only a sym-
bol of the status of women in society on
a plane and upon a par with men. I am


[Column 2]
convinced that if I reach Miss Anthony's
age I shall witness the complete fulfill-
ment of her hopes in this regard, and thus
behold the human race, in America at
least, take another long stride forward."
	The Maine and Portland Woman Suf-
frage Associations, State and local, united
in a memorial service in the Chestnut St.
Church. Miss Bertha King sang "Cross-
ing the Bar," and the audience the "Bat-
tle Hymn of the Republic." Rev. Dr.
Magruder offered prayer, and Rev. Dr.
Henry Blanchard gave the eulogy. He
said of Miss Anthony, in part:
	"Her courage was conspicuous - physical
and moral. She was not frightened "by
so slight a thing as a cyclone." Her con-
stancy was never shaken. Beaten in her
efforts before Congress, she planned a
new campaign as she came down the steps
of the Capitol at midnight. "Were you
never discouraged?" said one. "Never
I knew that my cause was just, and I was
always in good company."
	Her consecration was apparent. Some
thought she did not believe enough in
God. She was more ethical than pious.
A woman complained to a friend because
Miss Willard praised Miss Anthony. She
thought it wrong, because Miss Anthony
did not sufficiently recognize God. "I do
not know about that." said the friend,"but I do know that God had recognized,
her and her work for the last 30 years."
	The Shakers of Mount Lebanon, N. Y.,
held a memorial service in memory of
"Saint Susan," as Elder Daniel Offord
calls her. There was a large attendance
from the Shaker Village, and the neigh-
boring villages of New Lebanon and Leb-
anon Springs. Sister Amanda Deyo made
the principal address. The account in
the Springfield Republican was road by
one of the brothers. Eldress Anna White
gave personal recollections of Antoinette
Brown Blackwell, whose visit many years
ago to the Mount Lebanon Community is
still recalled with great interest, and gave
the impression made on her own mind
when, at the age of thirteen, she witnessed
the silencing of Lucretia Mott in a Quaker
meeting, because of her too advanced
thought. An extract from the tribute to
Susan B. Anthony by the President of
Bryn Mawr College, from the WOMAN'S
JOURNAL, was much appreciated. A num-
ber of short speeches were made by broth-
ers and sisters of the Order, and Elder
Ernest Pick said that in such a life and
character as that of Susan B. Anthony, he
recognized one of the saviors of the world.
Sister Amanda Deyo and Sister Catherine
Allen emphasized the Shaker belief that
the wider recognition of the law of equity
by which women are coming to their
birthright is due to the growing sense of
the true Father-Mother Spirit, the Cre-
ative Being. Sister Amanda ascribed to
Ann Lee the honorable place of leader in
the movement for woman's freedom.
	The P. E. Club of Manlius N. Y., held
a memorial meeting at the home of the
president, Mrs. Christina M. Sinnamon,
at the hour of Miss Anthony's funeral.
Mrs. Sinnamon writes that, despite pro-
found sadness, they were "grateful for
what the long and active life of Susan B.
Anthony has accomplished to make wo-
man's life more useful and enjoyable."
	At the hour of Miss Anthony's funeral,

[Column 3]
a memorial meeting was held in the Uni-
tarian church of Ithaca, N. Y. The pas-
tor, Rev. Cyrus W. Heizer, gave an ad-
dress on "Miss Anthony and Her Work."
Mr. Ducan Campbell Lee, editor of the
Daily News, spoke on "What Women
Can Do," and there were papers by sev-
eral members of the P. E. Club.
	The Civic Club of Lyons, N. Y., was
preparing to hold a celebration on March
13 in honor of Miss Anthony's birthday,
It was changed to a memorial service. A
fine portrait of Miss Anthony, draped not
in black but in white, stood on the table,
and another, draped in purple, hung on
the wall. The president, Mrs. Isabel C. Bar-
rows, who gave probably the first of the
vast number of memorial addresses that
have been delivered all over the country.
She urged the women present to make
work for Oregon their memorial to Miss
Anthony, and they voted a contribution
to the Oregon campaign. Rev. W. N.
Webb pronounced a eulogy, and there
was fine music.
	Hon. Samuel J. Barrow. National Pris-
on Commissioner, writes: "When I go to
Albany I shall go and look at her bust chis-
elled in stone at the Capitol. That is
one tribute which the Legislature of New
York paid to her; but how far it falls
short of what they might have done by
admitting her to their councils! But
some day women will be sitting at the
desks in the house, just as now by cour-
tesy they are allowed to sit inside the
rail."
	Woman's Journal.


MISS ANTHONY AT HOME.
	Mrs. Ida H. Harper writes in a syndicate
article:
	“Miss Anthony spent so large a part of
her life in public that the world seldom
thought of her in the retirement of home,
and yet this was the place she loved above
all others, and to whieh her heart con-
stantly turned. The Rochester home,
which has belonged to the family for over
forty years, is situated in a pleasant,
shaded street, a two-and-a-half story
brick house of thirteen rooms, with all
the modern conveniences. It is very
comfortably furnished, and its exquisite
neatness and cleanliness diffuse that at-
mosphere which one always associates
with the Friends or Quakers. The pieces
of old mahogany were a part of the moth-
er’s wedding outfit ninety years ago, and
the guest would sip her tea from the
mother’s delicate china cups with the thin
silver spoons which were a part of the
grandmother’s dowry in the century be-
fore the last. If the guest were worthy
of the highest honor, she would sleep
under a bedspread of the mother’s weav-
ing for her marriage chest, and, oh, the
exquisite touch with which Miss Anthony
smoothed out every tiny wrinkle! The
sheets were taken from a drawer where
she had laid them with sprigs of laven-
der, and every detail was looked after
with the careful attention of the old-time
housekeeper. The writer of this has often
said that Miss Anthony never suggested
ways for repairing the damages of society
with half the skill she employed in teach-
ing her nieces her wonderful method of
darning rents in garments and household
linen.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		MARCH, 1906


[Column 1]
	MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
	A FRIEND TO HUMANITY.
	Too much cannot be said or done to
emphasize the great work and worth of
Miss Anthony, whose passing away has
left a void no other woman can quite
fill; her magnificent ideas of equal privi-
leges touched every heart that beats with
genuine love for mankind. It is impossi-
ble for us to write satisfactorily upon such
a theme as her life presents. Miss An-
thony’s personality pervaded the atmos-
phere of every room she entered; her
queenly manner and the majesty of her
presence would adorn any station in life,
even had she been elected President of
the United States. But though she only
sought for equal privileges with the oppo-
site sex in the State and at the ballot
box, that small boon was withheld.
	Through her own active exertions
coupled with her great love for humanity
and personal influence, she created for
herself without wealth or titles a national
and international reputation for wisdom
and knowledge of affairs that gave her the
entre into the best society throughout the
United States and the countries she vis-
ited. Her own great soul dominated
without any assumption of power, and
those around her realized she was a born
leader, and became her loyal adherents
to follow her lead.
	At the present time we cannot really
estimate her loss, nor can we do justice to
her many admirable qualities; nor relate
her remarkable adventures and stories of
travel, we can only write a few words as
a loving tribute to her memory and leave
the matter to come up later, when there
has been time to tell the narrative of her
life-work more fittingly than a brief no-
tice hastily written.
	We mourn for her with her many
friends, and we also rejoice in the great
work she accomplished. One writer said
of her most truly, “She has lived a thou-
sand years, if achievement can measure
the length of life.”
	Memorial services were held as a trib-
ute to Miss Susan B. Anthony in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, on the Temple
block in this city, on Saturday morning,
March 18, 1906, President Bathsheba W.
Smith presiding. The hall was appropri-
ately decorated with Stars and Stripes,
palms and flowers. The services were
deeply impressive; the congregation sang
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe’s glorious words,

[Column 2]
“The Battle Hymn of the Republic,” and
prayer was offered by Hon. John T. Caine,
a personal friend of Miss Anthony. The
hymn, “Lead Kindly Light,” sung by
Miss Judith Anderson, Miss Mattie Read
accompanying on the organ, was one of
Miss Anthony’s favorite selections.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith made in
her most gracious way a brief but fervent
opening speech.
	Resolutions from the Utah Woman’s
Council were read by Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
and afterwards unanimously adopted.
	At a meeting of the State Council of
Women, held at Salt Lake City, on Sat-
urday, March 17, 1906, the following pre-
amble and resolutions were unanimously 
adopted:

	Whereas, we have learned with deep
regret of the death of Susan B. An[-]hony,
that noble and self-sacrificing woman, and
able and devoted advocate of equal rights
for all. And,
	Whereas, her whole life has been spent
in espousing the cause of humanity, and,
in endeavoring to place woman on the
same plane with man; therefore, be it
	Resolved, that in her death the women
of Utah, the United States and the world,
lose their dearest and best friend, and
most consistent exponent of woman suf-
frage, and be it further
	Resolved, that we tender our heart-
felt sympathy to her loved ones in this
hour of their sadness and affliction, and
that her memory be revered as a sacred
inheritance, and an incentive to every-
thing that is ennobling and uplifting, and
that it may live in the world<h>s archives
with those who have left the world
better for having lived in it. And also
be it
	Resolved, that the above preamble and
resolutions be spread on the minutes of
the State Council of Women of Utah,
and be published in the Salt Lake jour-
nals, and a copy thereof be transmitted
to the president of the Woman’s National
Suffrage Association,
	EMILY S. RICHARDS, President.
	ELIZABETH M. COHEN, Secretary.
	Resolutions of Y. L. N. M. I. A. read
by Miss Ann M. Cannon:
	Whereas, the members of this associ-
ation do feel a personal loss in the death
of humanity’s uncrowned queen, Miss
Susan B. Anthony, and,
	Whereas, the beauty and glory of her
life have become a part of the heritage
of the ages; and through that life every
woman’s intelligence and freedom have
been augmented in an incalculable de-
gree; and therefore, every man born of
woman has had his own horizon enlarged,
his possibilities increased, and his charac-
ter ennobled; and,
	Whereas, her Christ-like, unselfish de-
votion to life’s highest ideals, and her ac-
curate appreciation of justice, which
never steeled her heart to the pleadings
of mercy, have set a goodly pattern for
us to follow; and,
	Whereas, her passing is as fruitful and
beautiful as was her living;
	Now, therefore, be it resolved, that we,
the members of this association, do con-
secrate one hallowed niche in each indi-
vidual memory wherein to place the life-
work of Susan B. Anthony, the supreme
leader of womankind in modern historic-
al times; and that we will endeavor to

[Column 3]
let her pure life-passion so enrich our
own souls that wherever her spirit may
be hidden in the bosom of eternity, she
shall be filled with some measure of di-
vine joy that we do remember, and that
we do progress because of her life and its
labors.
	Our hearts are lifted, therefore, in one
united hymn of praise and joy, and we
offer our pleading petition to that God
who doth judge the quick and dead, that
in the heavenly home to which some day
we shall all go, we may be permitted to
mingle and labor in the eternal verities
over there, side by side with Susan B.
Anthony.
		SUSA YOUNG GATES,
		ANN M. CANNON,
			Committee.
	The speakers, who paid glowing trib-
utes to Miss Anthony at this meeting, were
Mesdames Emily S. Richards, Susa
Young Gates and Alice Merrill Horne.
Miss Judith Anderson rendered a solo,
“O Dry Those Tears.” it was very sweetly
sung. Hon. John T. Caine was the next
speaker, followed by George D. Pyper,
who sang in his best style, “O My
Father,” a favorite hymn.
	Mesdames Ida Smoot Dusenberry,
Sarah Jennie Cannon, Minnie J. Snow
and Emmeline B. Wells each poke
feelingly and effectively of their love,
veneration and appreciation of this
remarkable woman.
	The services closed with singing Dox-
ology and prayer by President Martha
Horne Tingey of the Y. L. N. M. I. A.


THE LION HOUSE PARTY.
	Col. Willard Young, Master of Cere-
monies, introduced the speakers, making
suggestive explanatory remarks.
	We of the early days in the valley,
have many tender recollections of the
Lion House. The name is significant in
the history of Salt Lake City, and it
means much of sentiment and veneration
to some of us who were familiar with the
house and its former occupants. What
memories it awakens to go inside its
walls or even to gaze upon the outside.
Built firm, strong and substantial, may it
ever be preserved. Great men and wo-
men have been sheltered there, and chil-
dren who have achieved greatness have
been born there. The greatest and grand-
est men of their time have prayed and
sung and feasted within its sacred pre-
cincts,. and great truths have been given
to the world from the owner of that
stately mansion and from his associates.
	Sitting in the Lion House parlor one
can recall varied scenes of the past, and
one becomes visionary, for the faces and
forms of long ago come back as it were,
and stand in their accustomed places; and
though the room may be crowded, we see
not those that are there so well as we do
the ones who once filled these now vacant
halls. It reminds one of Moore:

	“I feel like one who treads alone
		Some banquet hall deserted,
	Whose lights are fled, whose garlands dead,
		And all but me departed.”

Or like Longfellow:

	“This is the place	*	*
		Let me review the scene,
	And summon from the shadowy past
		The forms that once have been.”

	There is no time nowadays to dream;


[Column 1]
the watchword of the hour is activity;
but at the party in the Lion House on
the 17th of March people were requested
to be reminiscent; those who spoke gave
many interesting incidents, and the rest
of us dreamed and saw visions. 
	The house was erected half a century
ago, and the young woman in whose
honor the party was given was born in it
half a century ago, and both are still in 
their prime and likely to last another
half century or more!
	There were a number of people there 
who had helped to erect the unique struc-
ture, and among them Bishop Romney,
Joshua Midgeley, William Foster, and
Hamilton G. Park. We had the pleasure
too of hearing the hostess, Susa Young
Gates, who told us about some of the 
stirring events that had transpired there
in her quaintly humorous style and Zina
Young Card was booked to tell of “Court-
ships in the Lion House,” so sorry we
could not have heard those pretty love
passages; however, Bishop Whitney re-
lated his boyish pranks, which were al-
most as good as love stories, delightfully
interesting for past history. William Fos-
ter sang “Hard Times Come Again No
More,” and all joined in the chorus, and
there were a number of songs and some
hymns.
	President Joseph F. Smith gave recol-
lections of his youthful days in the valley
and of his Echo Canon experience un-
der Porter Rockwell, whose very name is
always a reminder of funny things, and
daring deeds, and the President also re-
lated their triumphal return home when
Johnston’s army passed through on their
way to Camp Floyd, which was very en-
tertaining.
	Beisdes speeches, songs, conversation
and music, there was a surprise for the 
honored lady of the Lion House—a box
presented by Miss Babcock from the
General Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. with
a strict injunction not to to open it until
midnight, possibly as the 18th, and not
the 17th of March, was the day on which
Mrs. Gates came into the Lion House
first. It would be impossible to give you
any idea of Miss Babcock’s speech on
paper, no pen could do it justice, but it
was sufficient for the occasion, and the 
applause was great.
	Besides all this, the guests were treated
to delicious refreshments and invited into
the Hall of Relics, where there were many
old-fashioned curiosities. In another
room there was a fish pond, and every-
body caught something, useful or funny.
Altogether the party was an immense
success, to see so many old friends
of other days together is very grati-
fying, and so many of the family of
the great, good and wise man, who
had dwelt there and raised his chil-
dren in loving tenderness, surrounded by
his numerous family and friends, by 
whom he was honored, admired and be-
loved; and his memory is hallowed and
sacredly enshrined in the hearts of the
people for whom he strove and planned
and wrought, and with his fellow laborers
founded this Territory and made it habit-
able and beautiful. Honor is due Brig-
ham Young and his famous band of pion-
eers and associates, from all who settle
in these mountain vales. They are the
men who made it possible to dwell here
in peace and security. Congratulations to
Sister Susa Young Gates on her fifty years

[Column 2]
young. Would we could write something
worthy of the unique occasion, but as
that is impossible, let us quote from
Longfellow:

“Vanish the dream! Vanish the idle fears!
	Vanish the rolling mists of fifty years!
	Whatever time or space may intervene,
	I will not be a stranger in this scene.
	Here every doubt, all indecision ends;
	Hail my companions, comrades, class mates,
	friends!

“Ah me! the fifty years since last we met
	Seem to me fifty folios bound and set
	By Time, the great transcriber, on his shelves,
	Wherein are written the histories of ourselves.
	What tragedies, what comedies are there;
	What joy and grief, what rapture and despair!
	What chronicles of triumph and defeat,
	Of struggle and temptation and retreat!
	What records of regrets and doubts and fears;
	What pages blotted, blistered by our tears!
	What sweet, angelic faces; what divine
	And lovely images of love and trust,
	Undimmed by age, unsoiled by damp and dust!

“Whose hand shall dare to open and explore
	These volumes closed and clasped forevermore?
	Not mine, with reverential feet I pass;
	I hear a voice that cries ‘Alas! Alas!
	Whatever has been written shall remain,
	Nor be erased nor written o’er again
	The unwritten only still belongs to thee—
	Take heed and ponder well what that shall
		be.’ ”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A HAPPY SOCIAL EVENT.

	The President, General Board, and
missionaries of the Relief Society gave a
party on Wednesday, February 28, in
honor of the Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells
at the home of her daughter Annie Wells
Cannon at Cannon Farm. The day was
very stormy but nevertheless a large num-
ber of the guests brayed the stormy wind
and weather, and celebrated the occasion
in a highly intellectual and spiritual
feast of good things, not forgetting the
dainty refreshments, flowers, music, songs
and poems.
	The presence of President Francis M.
Lyman, Apostle Charles W. Penrose,
Dr. Seymour B. Young, and Bishop
Lewis M. Cannon was very much appre-
ciated, and it was very gratifying to the
ladies who had charge of the affair to be
thus honored and to hear their words of
commendation and encouragement to the
sisters who are engaged in the noble work
of benevolence and blessing, and devoting
time and talents to the uplifting of human-
ity and the spread of truth.
	There were many precious gifts of var-
ious kinds from friends beloved, and it is
surely fitting to acknowledge with deep-
est gratitude from a heart overflowing
with love, the intense desire to become
more worthy of the honor bestowed by
such an ovation from dear relatives and
friends, who came with glad hearts and
cheering words on that day of days now
never to be forgotten by the recipient of
all this loving kindness.
	The magnificent bouquet of white car-
nations, seventy-eight in number, with a
beautiful white rose in the centre, pre-
sented by the First Presidency came in
the midst of the severe storm raging with-
out, calling to mind the tender thought-
fulness of these busy men (who could not
attend,) and bringing as it were not only
the delicate fragrance of these dainty
blossoms, but the magic charm that no
words can express, that touches the
depths of the human soul.
	It is sometimes good to pause in the

[Column 2]
hurry and bustle of life and consider one's
attitude towards those with whom one
mingles from day to day. The social
phase of human life is worthy of some
attention more than mere handshaking
and formal expressions of “How do you
do?” and “Good-bye,” and no doubt it is
beneficial to cultivate social qualities and
amenities, and would make our workaday
world more optimistic.
	The goodly company assembled on the
day heretofore mentioned did themselves
proud by their careful management of the
program of music, songs, hymns and
speeches, as well as the delicious menu
served by sweet girls in the daintiest
fashion. Original poems by Lula Greene
Richards, Lydia D. Alder and Ruth M.
Fox, written for the occasion, were inter-
spersed and appreciated and, a sort of
humorous mock trial scene, improvised
by one of the ladies to create a little mer-
riment was given with judge, jury and de-
fendant, and the calling of the court to
order with much noisy blowing of horns,
etc.
	Also for diversion a little Miss disguised
as a gipsy sat demurely in a corner to tell
fortunes, that each one drew out of a
basket filled with slips of paper on which
one's fortune was supposed to be writ-
ten.
	There were kind words and short
speeches by some of the ladies, among
them our honored Elect Lady, Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith, whose life-long experi-
ence is replete with telling incidents, and
when given in her inimitable style fall on
her listeners as gently as the summer
rain on the drooping flowers, gladdening
the heart, and revivifying and invigor-
ating the soul, awakening desires to fol-
low in her footsteps, and go and do like-
wise.
	Though the storm still raged when the
guests departed, yet they sang hymns
while waiting outside for the car, a pretty
good proof of the joyous day.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

				MORGAN STAKE.

	The Morgan Stake Relief Society held
its quarterly conference February 17,
1906, Pres. Lydia Rich presiding. Her
counselors and the President of the stake
with quite a number of others of the 
Priesthood were on the stand, and a fair-
ly good attendance of the sisters were
present.
	The reports from the different branches
showed some improvement, and a good
spirit was manifest. We were not 
favored with speakers from the General
Board, but we had some good testimon-
ies and timely remarks were made by a 
number of the sisters, also some of the 
brethren.
	Sister Martha Tonks, first counselor to 
President Rich, handed in her resigna-
tion, on account of her ill health, feeling
that she was incapable of attending to
the duties of the office, also Sister Ann
Fry as Stake Treasurer handed her res-
ignation for the same reason.
	They were accepted and given an hon-
orable release and a vote of thanks for
their faithful labors, giving assurance
that they would still remain faithful to
the cause of Society work. The vacan-


[Column 1]
cies will be filled at our coming quarterly
stake conference on the 25th of March, or
so President Lydia Rich announced in
our stake and local officers meeting last
Saturday. These officers meetings are
held regularly once a month, and we are
trying to keep the Relief Society work
alive and thriving in our stake.
	The health of the people is pretty 
good. We have had a long and quite
cold winter, but the snow is nearly all
gone and we shall perhaps soon have
spring.
	ANNIE W. CLARK, Secretary.

		NEBO STAKE.

	Quarterly Conference of the Nebo Stake
Relief Society, held in the Santaquin
meetinghouse. Stake President Eliza
J. Dixon, presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Sister
Dixon said she was pleased to meet with
the people of Santaquin, and very thank-
ful for every blessing we are enjoying.
But we could not do too much as mothers
in Israel in carrying on the work of the
Lord, that we should encourage one an-
other in the different organizations of the
Church in good works. Mothers should 
encourage the youth of Zion in attending
their meetings, and asked for the spirit
of God to be with us during the confer-
ence.
	Sister Wall, President of Santaquin Re-
lief Society, bid the sisters all welcome.
Bore her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel; prayed that all the young people
might seek for and obtain their testimony,
and reported Santaquin ward all well.
	A beautiful musical selection was given
by Ethel Tietjen.
	Sister Melissa Boyer reported Silver
ward in good condition, although a small
ward and constantly changing. Sister
Emma Jenkins reported Goshen organ-
ization complete and in good condition.
Sister Josephine Bennett reported Spring
Lake ward. Sisters were united and a 
good spirit prevailed.
	Song---"Maid of Athens," was beauti-
fully given by Christina Mace.
	Sister Clara Evans felt joy in meeting
with the sisters. Spoke of our temporal
and spiritual work; that it should move
along together. Read and explained the
meaning of theology.
	Sister Hannah Holliday recited a poem
entitled "Our Mission."
	The choir sang, and benediction was
offered.
	Afternoon session.---Conference met at
2 p. m., and the usual exercises were
given. Sister Pearce of Salem spoke of
the powers of the Priesthood and of wo-
men's work in the Relief Society.
	Sisters Mace and Olsen favored us with
a duet, "Life's Merry Morning."
	Sister Martha Kappel spoke on the 
Word of Wisdom. Exhorted sisters to
keep the Word of Wisdom and set a
proper example to their children and we
could then claim the blessings and hid-
den knowledge would be given unto us.
	Brother John Holliday said he had been
greatly interested in the remarks of the
sisters, and gave some good advice.
	Recitation by Elizabeth Openshaw.
	Brother German Elsworth spoke for a
few minutes. Sister Bertha Nelson re-
cited, "A Mortgage on the Farm."
	Sister Eliza Dixon felt well pleased
with the remarks that had been made and

[Column 2]
the good feeling that prevailed. Thanked
the people of Santaquin for what they
had done to make the conference a suc-
cess. Choir sang. Benediction by
Brother Butler.
		ALTA M. TOWNSEND, Sec.

		ALPINE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the
Alpine Stake was held in Science Hall,
American Fork, January 12, 1906. Presi-
dent Rebecca Standring presiding.
	After the usual exercises President
Standring wished all a happy and pros-
perous New Year. Hoped our love and
confidence would increase and that our
work would be onward. Reported that
all the wards had been visited during the
past quarter. We can learn everything
in the Society that will tend to elevate
us; we should be good wives and moth-
ers, good citizens and good members of
societv. The Savior said that the time
would come when the children of the
kingdom would be cast out while strang-
ers would take their places. Prayed for
the eyes of the parents to be opened to
teach the children the way of eternal
life.
	All the wards in the stake were repre-
sented except one; the presidents re-
ported a good condition, the sisters hold
regular meetings, and love and unity pre-
vails; they are caring for the poor and
sick and have gathered a good amount of
grain, and nearly all own their own
granaries. Also have Mother's lessons
and enjoy them.
	Stake President Stephen S. Chipman
was pleased to hear that the wards have
means to bless the poor and needy during
this cold weather. The tithes and offer-
ings have been more the past year than
the year previous. Urged the mothers to
use their best efforts to keep their boys
in purity and cleanliness of spirit.
	President James H. Clark said: The 
mothers all desire the welfare of their
boys and girls. Our children should be
taught that they are partly responsible
for their actions and habits, and instead
of spending all their means in frivolity
they should pay a little tithing and begin 
to realize that something is depending on
them and they must do their part, Our
sisters offer their prayers to God and it is
necessary that the children do their part
and also pray in the family, children will
be governed in a measure by the spirit of
prayer. If we make a mistake we must
repent of it and our children must do the
same. Adjourned after singing and
prayer.
	Afternoon session.---Meeting recon-
vened at 2 o'clock, and opened with the
usual exercises. Stake Counselor Harriet
Jacobs spoke to the mothers on the care
and training of their children, urged them
to call the family together in the ab-
sence of the husband and have them take
part in family prayer. Said there was
nothing that would do our children more
good than to have them go on a mission.
Was thankful the Lord had blest our
President, that she had been given wis-
dom, streugth and ability to successfully
take the management and responsibility
of this society.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley felt
that our labor could not be performed by
anyone else, it is our labor and our work.
Believed the Prophet Joseph Smith re-

[Column 3]
alized the great responsibility that would
rest on the sisters in the work of this so-
ciety. We should feel that God recog-
nizes us, and that He accepts our labors.
We should be ever ready to say, "Father,
thy will be done." We must encourage 
our sons and daughters to take missions,
for we know not the importance of the
missionary work in the world. The Lord
will bless and comfort His daughters while
their husbands and sons are away on mis-
sions. We all make mistakes but the
Lord is merciful to our weaknesses.
Prayed the Lord to bless Sister Stand-
ring and preserve her long on the earth.
	Stake Missionary Emily H. Bullock felt 
there is room for all to improve. Urged
the sisters to take care of their children
and keep them off the street at night.
We have had a good day today and have
been blest and paid for coming together.
Prayed for a blessing on Sister Standring
and on all the sisters.
	President Standring was pleased with
the reports given and also with the spirit
of the meeting. Urged the sisters to buy
wheat with the money collected for that 
purpose as soon as possible and not keep
cash on hand. Felt to thank God that
she had been called to preside over this
stake of Zion, for she knew that it was
the will of the Lord. May the spirit of
this conference go with us and abide with
us each and all.
	Singing and benediction.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.

		UINTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the 36thRelief Society con
ference of Uintah stake of Zion, held at
Mt. Dell, November 23, 1905. Presi-
dent Sarah A. Colton presiding. Sing-
ing, "Great God attend while Zion sings."
Opening prayer, Sister Nancy A. Colton.
Singing' "How firm a foundation." Roll
called, Minutes read and accepted.
	Sister Nancy A. Colton reported the
stake in fair condition; also gave the sis-
ters a great deal of encouragement, and
spoke of forgiveness.
	President Colton felt well in meeting
with the sisters of Mt. Dell; thought we
should live so that we could be  sisters in
very deed. Related some of the counsel
given at the lateGeneral Conference held
in Salt Lake City.
	Sister Mary J. Searle of Mt. Dell so-
ciety. reported the sisters doing as well
as they could under the circumstances.
Sister Annie Casper of Naples ward soci-
ety reported that society as getting along
quite well---felt like giving her teachers a
word of praise. Sister Hannah Odekirk
reported the Vernal society as getting
along quite well;felt well in meeting with
the sisters of Mt. Dell; had lived in the 
county for 20 years,and had never visited
Mt. Dell before.
	An essay from Jensen ward society was
read by the secretary, Phebe A. Merkley,
also a report, it being too far for those
sisters to travel to conference. Sister A. 
K. Bartlett spoke of the Savior and the
records that we have to guide our foot-
steps; referred to the 14th chapter of
Revelations and bore her testimony.
	Brother Mathias Caldwell, who was 
quite feeble, said he did not have the
privilege of going to meeting very often;
felt to bless the sisters for holding con-
ference in that ward; he was quite an
old timer; he related some of the perse-


[Column 1]
cutions in Missouri and Nauvoo; he had
alway been a pioneer, and was a member
of the Mormon Battalion. Singing and
benediction. Conference adjourned until
1:30 p. m.
	Afternoon session. After the usual ex-
ercises, the general and stake officers
were sustained. Sister Mary B. Henry
was sustained as assistant secretary and
treasurer by vote.
	Sister Mary J. Hards reported Glines
wards society as being in fair condition.
	An essay by Sister Mary B. Henry of
Vernal ward society, was read—“Neglect
of duty.”
	Song from Mt. Dell.
	Sister Rhoda Goodrich spoke of the
different organizations of the Church;
urged the mothers to see that their boys
attend Deacon’s meeting; she also re-
ferred to the Church schools; advised all
to uphold those placed over them.
	Brother John N. Davis spoke of the
duties of a mother toward her children;
felt like assisting the Relief Society as
much as he could.
	Sister Olive Bingham said it was like
being back home to meet with the sisters
of Mt. Dell; she had lived among them
so long, been some time since she moved
away; she always felt well in laboring
with the sisters of the Relief Society and
doing all the good she could.
	Song from Vernal.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett made a few re-
marks in regard to the duties of the sis-
ters.
	President Colton thanked the sisters
of Mt. Dell for their hospitality; thought
that by taking the conferences to the
different wards it would be a benefit to
those that are not able to attend when it
was held at one place.
	Singing. Conference adjourned for
three months, to be held in Vernal. Ben-
ediction by A. K. Bartlett. 
	PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secy. 

		NORTH SANPETE.
	Relief Society Conference of the North
Sanpete Stake, held in Mt. Pleasant
Sept. 5, 1905, Pres. Williamina H. Erick-
sen presiding. After the usual exercises,
opening remarks were made by President
Williamina Ericksen.
	President Levee Stewart of Milburn was
the first to report her ward. Said they
had not been able to hold their meetings
regularly. Some of their number having
moved away and others being unable to
attend their numbers were low. Hoped
to be able to do better, but they had made
a quilt. In the absence of the president
of the Fairview society, Sister Terry re-
ported it. Said they had a good attend-
ance, especially in their testimony meet-
ings. Have 4 quilts and 2300 bushels of
wheat on hand, besides other things in
the treasury. 
	President Anna M. Hardy of Moroni
said they had interesting meetings. Had
completed their building and were very
proud of it. Held a bazar and raised
some money. Have sheep, and shares in
the store from which they derive a divi-
dend. Teachers report the sick and
needy.
	President Mary Guymon, Fountain
Green, said in her ward, the president,
officers and teachers work unitedly in the
interest of the Relief Society. The
young mothers are becoming interested

[Column 2]
in the Mothers’ Work; usually make 5 or
6 quilts for winter for the poor, and ex-
pect to do so again. President Frieda
Edmunds of Wales said they helped the
missionaries and the sick by means of
socials. Had gathered considerable
money in that way. There had been a 
great deal of sickness and for that reason
they had been obliged to discontinue
their meetings. Believed that trials and
sickness draw us closer to our Heavenly
Father, and bore her testimony to the
goodness of the Lord, although she had
been sorely afflicted, having lost a beau-
tiful babe, and another child had his leg
broken. President Lovina Allred of
Chester said their meeting-house was
being repaired and they had met in pri-
vate houses for work meetings. Had
donated $12 for their meeting-house and
had also made carpet for it, so that in the
future they will have a comfortable place
in which to meet. 
	Song by Sina Clark.
	President Mary E. Simmonsen of
Freedom said they held work meetings
which were better attended than their 
regular testimony meetings. Have money
with which to buy wheat when they get
a place to put it; had passed through 
many trials, having lost three children in
one week.
	Sister Clarissa Williams (Treasurer of
the General Society) was more than
pleased to meet with the Relief Society 
sisters. Had begun in this work early.
Was appointed a teacher at 18, next be-
came secretary, and afterward, president
of the ward, then treasurer of the Gener-
al Society, and now president of the Salt
Lake Stake.
	Encouraged work meetings in private
houses. Said mothers’ meeting should
be combined with testimony meeting; had
listened with pleasure to the reports. It
is commendable the way the sisters assist
the brethren in building, carpeting, and
furnishing the ward houses.
	Sister Hattie B. Harker was very much
pleased to be present in conference.
Said throughout Salt Lake Stake, Ward
Relief Society conferences are held annu-
ally to bring the work before the people
of the respective wards. Felt to con-
gratulate the people here on their pleas-
ant surroundings.
	Singing and benediction.

	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m.
	General and Stake officers were unani-
mously sustained. Statistical and finan-
cial report of the past year was read.
President Ellen Tullgren of Spring City
thought they had a good organization in
her ward. The ward is building a new
meeting-house and the sisters have con-
tributed one thousand dollars since the
building was commenced.
	Sister Simpson of Mt. Pleasant South
Ward reported their society in the ab-
sence of the president. Was sorry the 
president, Sister Morrison was too feeble
to be present, but hoped the Lord would 
bless and strengthen her. Had sold
their wheat; had plenty in the treasury
for the poor and tried to look after their
wants. Counselor Nielson of the Mount 
Pleasant North Ward said their meetings
were quite well attended and their treas-
ury well filled. Their wheat in connec-
ion with that of the South Ward had
been sold and had not been replaced on

[Column 3]
account of not having any place to put it.
	Sister Jane Seely, one of the pioneers,
testified to seeing the prophet and had
passed through many of the persecutions
and mobbings of early days. Sister Mary
Wilcox, another pioneer, related her ex-
perience in crossing the plains. Had
driven an ox team all the way. Had been
in the mobbings but had been preserved.
Had raised a large family and had never
buried a child.
	A paper “Motherhood a Profession,”
from Spring City.
	Song by Beatrice Ericksen “Face to
Face.”
	Sister Harker hoped the Lord would
direct her remarks in the proper channel.
Explained what the sisters were trying to
do for girls who go to Salt Lake to ob-
tain employment, but hoped mothers
would not put all the responsibility upon 
them.
	Sister Clarissa Williams had been very
much interested  Hoped the young wo-
men would become more interested in
this work than they have been in the
past.
	Motherhood is the greatest gift that
can be bestowed upon woman. Keep
your girls home under your own influence.
	President C. N. Lund had been much
interested. Said he thought women had
the gift of reaching the heart of man
more than men had. The most impress-
ive speeches he had ever heard were from
women of the Relief Society.
	Closing remarks by Pres. Williamina
Ericksen.
	Song by the Glee Club.
	Benediction.
			Stake Secretary R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY.
	On account of the Stake Conference
occurring on the 17th, our Local Presi-
dency deemed it best to have the annual
celebration of the Relief Society of Cedar
City, Utah, on the 15th of March, 1906.
A meeting was held in the afternoon and
a very interesting program was carried
out and enjoyed by an appreciative au-
dience. In the evening a dance inter-
spersed with songs, readings, etc., was en-
joyed by the brethren and sisters present.
Light refreshments were served and a
general handshake and good wishes were
exchanged. A good, sociable feeling
prevailed and the Relief Society party
was voted a good success.
		JANE P. MACKELPRANG.


ANNIVERSARY

	IOSEPA, SKULL VALLEY.
	The annual meeting of the Relief So-
ciety was held at the residence of Sister
Ellen C. Cole, March 17, 1906, in mem-
ory of the first organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith.
President Pakekepa Kailikea with her
Counselors, Ellen Makaiau and Kalawai-
anna Kalua, presided.
	Meeting commenced by singing from
page 29 of the “Hoku Ao Nani.” Prayer
was offered by Sister Mary Mokuilima.
Continued by singing from page 33 “Hoku
Ao Nani,” Roll was called, minutes of
the meeting held March 17, 1905, were
read by the secretary and approved. No
program had been prepared, so the sis-


ters were requested to bear their testi-
mony. 
	Sister Ellen Makaiau made a few re-
marks concerning the first organization 
of the Relief Society, and urged the sis-
ters to be faithful.
	Sister Kalawaianui Kalau also spoke 
upon the same subject.
	Duet by Emily Mahoe and Mary Mokui-
lima, followed by Sister Cole, who spoke 
a short time on the life of the Prophet 
Joseph Smith and the early persecutions 
of the Saints; she also eulogized the life 
of our President Bathsheba W. Smith. 
	Prest. Pakekepa Kailikea was pleased 
with what had been said and spoke en-
couragingly to the sisters.
	Ellen Makaiau was appointed to repre-
sent the Society at the General Confer-
ence in Salt Lake April 5th. 
	The initiation fee was remitted by every
member of the Society.
	Meeting was closed by singing from 
page 31 “Hoku Ao Nani,” prayer by 
Ellen Makaiau. 
		ELLEN K. MAKAIAU, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
			MARY WALKER.
	Mary Walker, wife of George Walker, who died
June 20th, 1905, at Mendon, Cache County, Utah,
was born in England, September, 1813.
	Sister Walker was a true and faithful Latter-
day Saint, a faithful wife and loving mother; was
a counselor in Relief Society for some years, and
was always devoted to the cause of truth.

			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father, in His infinite
wisdom, has seen fit to remove our dear sister to a
higher sphere; therefore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a dear sis-
ter, a faithful counselor in the Relief Society for
some years, and that we desire to emulate her
worthy example.
	Resolved, that we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved daughters , and pray our Heavenly
Father to let the comforting influence of His Holy
Spirit rest upon them, that they may realize that
she is enjoying the rest of the faithful, and that she
will come forth in a glorious resurretion crowned
with immortality and eternal life.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
placed on our record; one be sent to the bereaved
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for pub-
lication.

		ELIZABETH A. WILLIE.
	Elizabeth A. Willie, wife of James G. Willie,
who died Jan 25th, 1906, at Mendon, Cache Coun-
ty, Utah, was born in New York, December 3rd,
1818.
	Sister Willie was a true Latter-day Saint, a
faithful wife and mother, devoted to her duties;
was President of the Relief Society at its organiz-
ation in the Mendon Ward, and remained in that
position for upwards of 20 years; her influence
was always felt for good in this benevolent work.

			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father, in His infinite
wisdom, has seen fit to remove our dear sister to
a higher sphere; therefore be it
Resolved, that we mourn her loss as a dear sis-
ter, a faithful worker in the cause of truth, and as
a faithful President in the Relief Society for
many years, and that we desire to emulate her
worthy example.
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved sons and daughters, and pray our Heav-
enly Father to let the comforting influence of His

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


Holy Spirit rest down upon them, that they may
realize that she is enjoying the rest of the faithful,
and that she will come forth in a glorious resur-
rection crowned with immortality and eternal life.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
placed on our record; one be sent to the bereaved
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.—Com.


OBITUARY.
		HARRIET STANIFORTH.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Harriet Staniforth, who departed this life at her
home in Farmington, Utah, Feb. 24th. 1906, after
a residence of forty years.
	She was in her 86th year, having acted as mid-
wife the greater part of her life; she was faith-
ful and true to any and all cal[-]s made of her; was
gentle and unassuming in her manner, and a spirit
of peace and comfort attended her ministrations
into every home; she never turned any one away,
no matter what their conditions, giving her ser-
vices free to widows, missionaries’ wives, and to
the families of those who were imprisoned for
“conscience sake;” she lived and died a faithful
Latter-day Saint
	We esteem it a pleasant duty to testify of her
faithfulness, as she has left a record that would be
hard to surpass; she endeared herself to the hearts
of the children as well as the parents.
	Therefore be it resolved, that we emulate her ex-
ample of love and unselfishness to her fellow
man, and that a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon the record of the Relief Society, and
a copy be framed and hung upon the walls of the
Relief Society hall,	
					WEALTHY CLARK,
		Missionary in Davis Stake Relief Society.
					LOVISA A. SEARS,
					Secretary Farmington R, S.
		JANE COUSINS BIRKBECK.
	One after another those whose names were en-
rolled in the first organization of the Relief Society
in this place are called to the other side, where no
doubt they are still engaged in the good work.
Among the earliest promoters, none took greater
interest nor labored more faithfully in whatever
capacity she was called to than Sister Jane C.
Birkbeck, who laid down life’s burden at the ripe
age of eighty-three; fifty-two years of which time
were passed in Utah, having emigrated from her
native land with her husband in the year 1852,
moving to Cedar in the course of a year or two,
where they resided up to the time of their deaths,
Brother Birkbeck having preceded her about two
years.
	In Society work Sister Birkbeck filled the posi-
tion of counselor for a number of years. Upon
resigning that position she acted as teacher, which
office she sustained faithfully as long as her health
would permit. Always ready in tlmes of sickness
or distress to assist not alone by words but works
as well, thereby fulfilling the will of the Savior,
“Bear ye one another’s burdens.”
	Sister Birkbeck was Stake Treasurer of the Re-
lief Society from 1894 until the officers were
changed in 1902.
	Grandma Birkbeck, as we familiarly called her,
will live long in the memory of many of the peo-
ple of Cedar, not alone for her deeds of charity
and kindness, but the interest she took in the pro-
motion of amusements; being early associated
with the Home Dramatic Company, which in for-
mer days afforded a great deal of pleasure to the
community.
	Although having no family connections of her
own, she was lovingly cared for by her adopted
daughter, Mrs. Ella Mitchell, and many kind
friends during her sickness, which resulted in her
death on the 15th of November, 1905. 
	Her funeral, which took place on the 18th, was
held in the tabernacle, the interior of which was
draped in white, and many of her old friends were
present from other places to show their respect for
the one who had gone before.
								J. P. M.


RABBI FLEISCHER ON WOMAN.
		(Concluded.)

	In this process and towards
this result, forward-looking men and
women both, all who seek the progress
of the race will co-operate. And this for
the double reason: that equal with man’s
a woman’s individuality being sacred, she
is entitled to fullest opportunity for self-
development and in the free use of her
powers; and, secondly, as the mother of
the race, the more the calibre of woman-
hood is improved the better the outlook,
through her for all the children of men.
	“It is idle, at this stage for sentimen-
talists to theorize about ‘woman’s sphere.’
From the standpoint of democracy, I
prophecy (and it is a prophecy which
every day is fulfilling) that woman’s
sphere and career will be wherever the
individual woman’s capacity and social
interest, her individual need and her so-
cial use prompt her to find them. Wom-
an’s sphere is the home? What becomes
of that generalization in the face of the
millions of women who are not home-
builders and who have proved their econ-
omic worth outside of the home? Her
sphere is partly there, as is man’s. Her
marital relationship need not absorb her
individuality any more than it does a
man’s. Anyhow, it does not. And plain-
ly it cannot in the case of the millions of
unmarried women who have attained eco-
nomic independence. But the marriage
relationship itself will be finer and social-
ly more valuable, when that is based—as,
in time, it must be—upon the democratic
principle of equivalence or equality of
husband and wife.
	“In the spirit of democracy, we may
not herd women and dogamatize about
them as a class apart. Democracy should
talk no more about sex than it does about
sect. In the light of democracy each hu-
man atom is a sacred individuality, which
is to get from and give to social organiz-
ation the utmost benefits of human asso-
ciation. Really, there is no such thing as
‘man’ or ‘woman’, but only individual men
and women, to be developed into fuller
and finer humanness through cooperation
in the various social groups known as 
home and shop and church and State and
what not. Thus each of these human
beings is to be fitted to contribute towards
advancing the day of completer democra-
cy, which in turn will mean always more
of justice and opportunity to each human
unit, whether male or female.—Woman’s
Journal,

