Vol. 34					SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1906						No. 8


CONTENTS.
Amanda Trimble Gheen Kimball................ 
	.....................................Alice K. Smith	49
Christmas in Scandinavia............................
	..........................Emma Howell Jenson	51
Effort May Overcome Environment............
	...........................Eleanor P. Groesbeck	54
Mothers’ Work......................Ceila A. Smith	54
In Memoriam...............................................	55
Party at Pleasant View...........M. A. Cragun	56
Honoring Sister Lindsay..........N. H. Allred	56
Relief Society Report..................................	56
EDITORIAL:—A Few Stray Thoughts.......	52
	Unique Party........................................	52
	Heart of My Heart...............................	53
	Editorial Notes....................................	53
POETRY:—Today..........Grace Ingles Frost	49
	The Pilgrim Mother................Selected	49
	As the Days are Slipping By................
	....................................Louise Coulson	51
	The Lone Pine.............Maud Baggerly	51


TODAY.
		GRACE INGLES FROST.

Live in today, not tomorrow;
	When it shall come ’twill be your today
Ask not thyself, does it hold joy or sorrow;
	Trust in the Master and live in today.

Live in today, not tomorrow;
	None eve[-] reach it; tug as they may.
Save in the realms where fancy may lead
		them;
	For when attained ’tis always today.

Live in today, there is no tomorrow;
	Live in the land in the season that’s
		thine;
Live in today, great strength you will
		borrow,
	By only living one day at a time.


[Column 1]
[Portrait of Amanda Trimble Gheen Kimball]

AMANDA TRIMBLE GHEEN KIMBALL.

		BY ALICE K. SMITH.
	Amanda Trimble Gheen Kimball was
born into this life the same year that the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints was organized. She first beheld
the light of day the 18th day of January,
1830. She was the fourth child and third
daughter in a family of eight. The order
of the children’s births was as follows:
Margarette P. Thomas, Ann Alice, Aman-
da T., Mary Ann, Stephen H., Levi A.,
and Sarah Ellen. They were all born in
Whiteland, Chester county, Pennsyl-
vania, excepting the last named, who was
born in Nauvoo, Hancock county, Illinois.
Her father’s name was William A.
Gheen, a son of Thomas and Alice Ann
Atkin Gheen, natives of Goshen, Chester
county, Pennsylvania, where he was born
September 2, 1798. He was a prosper-
ous farmer. Both his parents were
Quakers, He led a good, moral and in-
dustrious life, though he never believed
or joined any sect or society until he
joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints. Her mother’s maiden
name was Esther Ann Pierce, a daughter
of Thomas and Margerette Trimble
Pierce, both born in Thornbury, Delaware
county, Pennsylvania. They, like her
father’s parents, were Quakers.
	In the spring of 1840 some of the first
Elders belonging to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints came to
Chester county, Pennsylvania, and Aman-
da’s parents and their children who were
old enough to comprehend, were soon
convinced of the truth of the Gospel. In
August of the same year her father, moth-
er and oldest sister were baptized, and
the following December Amanda and her
sister, Ann A., were also baptized. At
this time Amanda was twelve and Ann A.
was fourteen years of age.
	In the year 1841 her father, in company
with Edward Hunter (who was a near
neighbor), went to Nauvoo to visit the
Prophet and Saints. He received his
patriarchal blessing and was ordained an
Elder under the hands of Hyrum Smith.
He returned home in good health and
spirits, On the 21st of January, 1842,
her father sold his farm and prepared to
gather with the Saints at Nauvoo, and on
the 11th day of May, 1842, they bade
farewell to the place of their nativity and
started westward, for the Gospel sake.

[Column 2]
In the language of Ann A., “They were
prospered and blessed and had a pleasant
journey, for they were a happy family.”
	They arrived in the city of Nauvoo the
28th day of June, having been seven
weeks on the way. Her father bought
an acre of land just two blocks west of
the Temple, and built a two-story brick
house. He also purchased of the Proph-
et Joseph Smith eighty acres of prairie
land on the Carthage road, for which he
paid eight hundred dollars. He labored
diligently to build and improve, and to
cultivate the earth. He made his family
comfortable and assisted in building the
Temple by labor and liberal donations.
He was always very kind to the poor.
The Prophet Joseph Smith and his broth-
er Hyrum were frequent and welcom
visitors at the Gheen home. On the 29th
of July, 1843, Amanda and her sister,
Ann A., received their patriarchal bless-
ings under the hands of Patriarch Hyrum
Smith. Other prominent visitors came
to their home, among them Brothers
Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball.
And Heber became very much attached
to Amanda’s sister, Ann A., who was at
that time very ill with ague. He con-
verted her and her parents to the prin-
ciple of plural marriage, and he asked
her to be his wife under the bonds of the
new and everlasting covenant, which she
consented to, and on the 10th day of Sep-
tember, 1844, they were married by Brig-
ham Young, then President of the Twelve.
We find the following in her journal in
reference to her marriage:
	“This I do for the sake of salvation and
exaltation in the celestial kingdom of
God, with a man I think the best in the
world, and one who has proved himself a
man of God.”
	Amanda’s father was very much at-
tached to the Prophet and his brethren,
and often he was bowed down in grief
and wept when he witnessed the life of
jeopardy and persecution that they en-
dured from day to day. The day before
the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hy-
rum were murdered he visited them in
the jail and was received with many bless-
ings.
	He had a great desire to see the Tem-
ple completed, but he was disappointed.
The following year he was taken sudden-
ly ill, and died July 15, 1845, age forty-
seven years and ten months.
	From the journal of Ann A. we read
the following: “This is a heavy blow to
our family, for he was a kind and faithful
father and husband and a good man.
Brother Brigham preached his funeral
sermon, and he said he had known Broth-
er William A. Gheen well, and if he was
to live his life over he could not better it
one particle.”
	At the time of his death the four young-
est children had the whooping cough, and
the baby was apparently dying, but
through the blessings of God she lived to
be a great blessing and became a mother
in Israel. Amanda in time was convinced
also that Heber C. Kimball was “the best
man in the world,” and was married to him


[Column 1]
in the Nauvoo Temple, December, 1845.
These two sisters, whose lives were so
closely interwoven, were just the opposite
in looks and temperament. Ann A., was
very tall, of dark complexion, black
silken hair, and very dark eyes, was in-
tensely spiritual and rather delicate.
Amanda was of medium height, fair com-
plexion, blue eyes and light hair, was
rather temporal, or seemed more wrapped
up in the affairs of this life than her sis-
ter, and never knew until she was ad-
vanced in years what sickness meant.
Ann A. was gentle, kind, and had great
sympathy for the delicate and weak. She
was rather Quakerish in her dress, and
seemed to avoid society, or shrank from
the association of [-]trangers, and she ap-
peared happier at home than abroad un-
less she could administer help and com-
fort to her friends and to the sick and
those who were in need.
	Amanda was quick to speak, of high
temperament, given to plain speech; with
her a “spade was a spade.” She loved
and craved company, the association of
the young and the old, and was never
known to refuse an invitation to a social
gathering or any place of enjoyment.
These two sisters were baptized the same
day; they received their patriarchal bless-
ings the same day. They were both
sealed for time and all eternity to the
same husband. They lived together,
reared their children together, and loved
each other’s children. Together they
participated in the trials, persecutions,
mobbings and drivings of the Saints from
their beautiful city, Nauvoo, and from
their sacred Temple, from their homes
and possessions. And they remained
with the “Camp of Israel” upon the Mis-
souri river, in 1846-7, while their husband
came west as one of the pioneers with
President Brigham Young. In 1848, the
brethren having returned to Winter
Quarters to lead the main body of the
Church westward, these two sisters came
with the rest of their husband’s family,
though in different companies. Their
journey across the plains, which to many
seemed laborious, was to Amanda one
long pleasure trip. She took her share
of the work and the hardship uncom-
plainingly, and it has always been a
pleasure to listen to her stories of the
good times they had on that journey, and
likewise when they first came to these
valleys, though in the midst of privation
and want. She always took a great deal
of pleasure and satisfaction in dyeing
wool or yarn, in spinning, carding or
“cooking for the mill hands,” or anything
that came her way. She was well and
strong and was never known to shirk any
duty. Her first great sorrow was the
death of her husband. The Deseret
Evening News of Mond[-]y, June 22, 1868,
in an extended editorial thus announced
his death: “A prince and a great man has
this day passed from among us. Presi-
dent Heber C. Kimball, who was born
June 14, 1801, fell asleep at twenty min-
utes to eleven o’clock this morning, June
22nd, after a pilgrimage on the earth of
sixty-seven years and eight days.”
	His last words uttered distinctly the
evening before his death were: “Truth,
eternal Truth,” and it was the testimony
of this “Truth, eternal Truth” that
burned in the souls of his wives, the
mothers of his children, that braced them
up in this the hour of their bereavement.
	
[Column 2]
	At this time Amanda was but thirty-
eight years of age. She was the mother
of four sons, and she was ever a true
mother to her children, and true to the
end to this great and noble man of God.
She had been his wife for time and she
knew she would be his throughout the
endless eternities. She loved him and he
loved her. The following is an extract
from a letter from Heber C. Kimball to
his wife Amanda: “I have no fault to
find with you. I can say God bless my
wife Amanda with all things that she shall
wish for that will make her course safe to
the haven of rest.”
	At the time of his death, his wife, Ann
A., was very low with bronchitis and it
was feared her mortal end was near.
But her love for her children and the
great desire of her heart was to see them
grow to manhood aud womanhood, and
this buoyed her up. And with the faith
and prayers of her friends and loved ones
and the blessing of God, she lived, but
she never recovered her health, and
after eleven years of patient suffering, on
the 12th day of October, 1879, she passed
to the great beyond. She was fifty-
one years and ten months old. She was
the mother of five children, three sons
and two daughters. Her sister Amanda
had not been blessed with daughters,
consequently her heart and sympathy
went out to these two motherless girls,
and they turned to her, and Aunt
Amanda became their second mother.
Henceforth she was as devoted to them
and their children as to her own.
	The next great sorrow that came to
her was the death of her third son,
Jeremiah. He had been called to go
on a mission to Germany to preach the
Gospel. From the moment he re-
ceived his call until his death, he had
a foreboding of death to himself or one
of his loved ones. He had a wife and
three children (one had died previous to
his call.)
	In a letter to his mother, who was
then visiting her oldest son in Paris,
Bear Lake, he wrote:
	“Mother, if ever there was any one
who needed the help of the Lord it
is me, at the present time. I feel that
I am going to my death. But I feel
that I am in the hands of the Lord.
And what man has done, man can do
again. I hope by our faith and prayers
I will be protected, and find all well
when I return. May God bless you
and all of us, and all of His people
from day to day, Good-bye. From
your downcast but ever loving son and
well-wisher to all men, Jeremiah.”
	The foreboding anxiety and gloom that
he seemed unable to throw off reduced
him in flesh twenty pounds in the three
weeks before his departure. On the
night of May 25, 1887, while on his
way to Germany to fulfill his mission,
he was accidentally killed by falling from
the train between Fort Scott and Camas,
Kansas, This was a heavy blow to his
wife and children, and mother and the
entire family, for we all loved Jerry.
His body was brought back to Salt Lake
City and buried there June 1. The
funeral services were held in the Seven-
teenth ward, of which he was a member.
Bishop O. F. Whitney preached the fun-
eral sermon.
	Aunt Amanda was an active worker in

[Column 3]
the Relief Society and was always devoted
to her religion, always remembered her do-
nations and tithing, though at times it
was but the “widow’s mite.” She took a
great deal of comfort working in the
Temple. She did considerable work for
the dead, but her chief delight seemed to
be in entertaining her friends. She
seemed supremely happy when she could
get up a nice dinner and invite her
friends to eat with her. It was her cus-
tom to have her own children and her
sister Ann A’s. children together at her
home at least once a year. It can be
truly said that at her home “the latch
string hung on the outside.” At Confer-
ence time she always had a house full,
and there seemed always room for one
more. And when circumstances were
such that she could not be at home to
wait upon her friends, she would leave
the key with instructions to help them-
selves, and be at home, for they were
welcome. Many of her country friends,
who had been in the habit of partaking
of her hospitality when they come to
Conference, will miss her: but her chil-
dren and her sister’s children are now the
chief mourners.
	There is a vacant place in their home,
an aching void in their hearts that only
time can heal. For at the old Kimball
homestead in the Eighteenth Ward, at
six minutes before nine o’clock on the
evening of November 4, 1904, death re-
lieved the suffering of Aunt Amanda, and
her freed spirit passed into eternal rest.
She had been ailing for about a week
with an acute attack of pneumonia, and
in spite of all that could be done for
her in the way of medical help and in
administrations of the healing ordinance,
she gradually grew weaker, though at
times rallying, but finally succumbing to
the disease that had fastened its fatal
grip upon her. Among those who
administered to her in her last hours
were President Joseph F. Smith, Elder
J. Golden Kimball and Bishop O. F.
Whitney. At times she revived, and
it seemed that she might recover, but
inability to sleep, or to take proper
nourishment, intensified the malady from
which she was suffering until death
came.
	She was in her seventy-fifth year. She
had led an active life, and was energetic
and industrious to the end. She wanted
to live. She found joy in living. No
matter how dark the clouds seemed, Aunt
Amanda could always see a silver lining,
could always see something to live for.
Considering the circumstances that sur-
rounded her, and the many odds that
were against her, she found more real
pleasure in life than any woman I have
ever known. She recognized her loved
ones and was conscious until the last
moment. She fought against death and
prayed incessantly for life. But she was
suffered to go by Him who doeth all
things well. She was the mother of four
children, twenty-eight grandchildren and
ten great grandchildren.
	The funeral services were held in the
Eighteenth ward chapel, Monday, Novem-
ber 7, at 2 o'clock, Bishop Walter J. Beatie
of the Seventeenth ward presiding. The
speakers were Biship Beatie, Bishop
George Romney, Bishop O. F. Whitney
and President Joseph F. Smith. All of
the remarks were eulogistic of the
deceased, and many feeling references


were made to the career of her departed
husband. The prayers were pronounced
by Elder Robert Patrick and Elder John
T. Caine, while the music was furnished
by the “Imperial Quartette,” who rend-
ered “Night of Rest,” “When the Swal-
low’s Homeward Fly,” Thomas Ashworth
singing “O, my Father,” at the close.
	How we miss her! But what is our
loss will be her gain. And we feel sure
that when the book is opened out of
which we are to be judged, the name of
Amanda T. Gheen Kimball will be there
and on her life’s history not a blot nor a
blemish will be found.


THE PILGRIM MOTHERS.

A song for the Pilgrim Mothers,
Who came from over the sea
	To worship God
	On the virgin sod
Of a new world, great and free.

A song for those brave foremothers,
With dauntless hearts and true,
	Who sailed away
	From old Plymouth bay
To found a Plymouth new,

A song for those valiant mothers,
Self-exiled for the right;
	Who faced the wild,
	And serenely smiled
’Mid dangers, day and night.

A song for those steadfast mothers,
Waose patience was so strong,
	Through winter sleet
	And through summer heat
They passed with joyous song.

A song for those pure foremothers
Whose blood like leaven runs,
	Where’er the crest
	Of the nation’s best
Is borne by her daughters and sons.

A song for the silent mothers
Whose souls are now on high;
	We bow the head,
	To honor the dead,
Who knew how to live and to die.
					SELECTRD.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS IN SCANDINAVIA.
	Christmas is the most important of all
feasts or “holy days” in the northern
countries. It was originally the feast of
the sun, a feast of rejoicing because the
shortest day of the season had passed,
and the sun had commenced its return to
the north. After the introduction of
Christianity into Scandinavia, its signifi-
cance was changed, and instead of being
the feast of the sun, it became a feast
in honor of the advent of the Son of Man,
and it was for many centuries the begin-
ning of the year.
	In olden times the people commenced
making preparations for Christmas sev-
eral weeks before the time, and among
the most important of these preparations
was the making of Christmas beer, which
was done with great care. Even among
the poorer classes, where the family beer
was ordinarily very weak, a much better
quality was made for Christmas, and suf-
ficient of it must be had to supply the
family liberally, and to treat every visitor
during the thirteen successive Christmas
days. During Christmas quarreling and
fighting was strictly forbidden; all must
be peace and good will, and all court
proceedings were suspended. Should
anyone do harm to his fellow man during
Christmas, great punishment would be
meted out to him later. Nor were the
people permitted to do any kind of hard
manual labor, only the most necessary
work, such as feeding the stock, etc., was
permissible.
	The so-called Christmas peace was also
extended to the brute creation. As long
as Christmas lasted man should keep
peace even with their natural enemies,
such as wolves, bears, rats and mice. To
avoid giving offence, these animals were
not even to be called by their right
names; but the wolf was during Christ-
mas called “grey leg” the bear “the old
one in furs,” mice the “little greys,” and
rats “long tails.”
	As the 24th of December drew nearer
the confusion and disorder, incident to
the preparations, became greater, and on
the 23rd of December it was at its height.
It was baking, cooking and a thorough gen-
real house cleaning that had to be done.
Everything had to be ready by sundown on
the 24th of December. Among the prepa-
rations for Christmas was also the rubbing
of the teeth of all domestic animals, and
that being done, horses, catte, sheep, etc.
were treated to a double portion of the
best of their usual allowance. An old
legend says that at midnight after Christ-
mas eve, at the exact hour that Christ
was supposed to have been born, all
animals received the power of speech,

[Column 2]
and could for a few moments converse
with each other like human beings,
	Everything else being ready, the peo-
ple turned their attention to their person-
al appearance; a bath and a complete
change of clothing on Christmas eve was
universal; and when attired in their best
the members of the household greeted
each other appropriately with “Merry
Christmas, health and strength and all
that is dear.” Then followed exchanges
of Christmas gifts, and then all sat down
to a bounteous Christmas supper in the
decorated room. The meal consisted
usually of dried fish and sweet porridge,
or ham with green cabbage and mush,
usually rice with well-to-do people. Af-
ter the table was once set Christmas eve,
it was never cleared until Christmas was
through, as every visitor in the house
during the time must, without exception,
partake of the hospitality of the same.
None were forgotten on Christmas eve;
all poor people were remembered; a large
dish was set out for the Christmas Saint
(Santa Claus), and the birds were provid-
ed for liberally.
	The Christmas cake was a most impor-
tant feature in every household; some-
times it was made in the shape of a man,
a ram, or a fat hog, otherwise perfectly
round. Sometimes a gold or silver coin
was placed in the center of the cake.
Christmas gifts commenced with ex-
changes of these cakes, but later they
were accompanied with gifts. The cus-
tom pertaining to Christmas cake was
introduced into England by the Vikings
from Scandinavia a thousand years ago,
and then “Yule cake” (yule or jul is the
Danish for Christmas) is well known to
this day.
	While eating the Christmas supper,
the head of the family would always
present a toast for Christ and the New
Year, and all would drink in honor there-
of from the oldest and most costly vessel
which the household possessed. Beer
and “mjod,’ (mead made of honey) were
the beverages used at Christmas, and this
was freely used by both men and women.
Whiskey and strong beverages were sel-
dom used on Christmas eve. After the
more solid meal, “Ebleskiver” was served
and the meal was prolonged as much as
possible, as there existed an old su-
perstitious legend to the effect that
the one who got through eating first
would die before the year was through.
At length, when the meal was over, the
head of the family offered a benediction,
and then gave the hand to the housewife,
saying, “Tak for Mad” (thanks for the
food), and after that shook hands with
all in the house; then follows a general
handshaking with “Tak for Mad,” coup-
led with many good wishes; the children
and the servants come in last; they com-
mence with the oldest person of the
household and end with the youngest.
	Many superstitious customs were asso-
ciated with Christmas eve proceedings:
Thus, in the glare of the Christmas can-
dles, which were to burn all night, young
people could see their future mate, and
everybody, to a greater or less extent,
see their future, at least what would hap-
pen to them the next year.
	Christmas day (December 25th) was
observed as a solemn holiday. Then ev-
erybody went to church, but spent the
rest of the day quietly at home, and it
was considered a very offensive breach of

[Column 3]
Christmas etiquette for any visits to be
made on that day. But on the 26th were
commenced the general Christmas fes-
tivities, aside from the solemn assemblies,
and they continued until the 5th of Janu-
ary. An important feature of the second
Christmas day was the horse feast, which
originated in the ancient Scandinavian
mythology, when the god Frey rode
around among his people on a holy ani-
mal; but when Christianity was intro-
duced in Scandinavia, they substituted
Stephen, the first Christian martyr, for
the god Frey, and the custom finally
dwindled down to general Christmas
races.
	Numerous and varied were the sports
and festivities of Christmas in the Scan-
dinavian countries in the olden times, but
these have considerably reduced of late
years. Yet Christmas, even today, is
looked forward to with much joy and an-
ticipation, and considerable good will is
manifested by the people, one toward
another, during the Christmas holidays,
and the exchange of presents and friendly
greetings is in order, as much now as it
ever was. The Christmas tree festivities
were almost unknown in Scandinavia un-
til seventy-five years ago, but were uni-
versal in France as early as the thirteenth
century.
		EMMA HOWELL JENSON.


AS THE DAYS ARE SLIPPING BY.
	LOUISE COULSON.

Are we doing all we can,
	Never asking reasons why?
Filling up life’s little span,
	As the days are slipping by?

Are we seeking good to do
	Where there's evils we descry?
Blessing every day anew
	As the days are slipping by?

God will surely life prolong,
	If we ask and if we try,
Filling every heart with song
	As the days go slipping by.


THE LONE PINE.
	BY MAUD BAGGARLEY.

“Mine eyes are weary” the hermit sighed,
“From gazing on mountains; and desert wide.”
“My only solace is yon towering pine,
Whose life is as useless and lonely as mine.”

“Yet—from storms it shelters the birds of the 
	air,
And hath stood for ages a sentinel there;
A guide to those on the desert astray,
A shield to all from the sun’s fierce ray.”

“Father, the pine hath taught to me—
All things are useful created by Thee.
I shall not repine when Thou dost give
The sorrows that teach me how to live.”


A hearing on the Federal Suffrage bill
introduced in the House by Hon. Burton
French of Idaho, and in the Senate by
Senator Warren, of Wyoming, was given
to the Federal Woman’s Equality Asso-
ciation on January 31. The annual meet-
ing was held in Washington, Feb
2nd. Rev. Olympia Brown is spending
the winter season in Washington, looking
after the interests of this important
measure.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s cond-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		FFBRUARY, 1906


[Column 1]
	A FEW STRAY THOUGHTS.
	Perhaps it does not often occur to wo-
men, or to our people, what a great insti-
tution the Relief Society, founded away
back in Nauvoo, Illinois, on March 17,
1842, has become. But it has a history
which if told in brief would astonish
many of those who have been actively as-
sociated with its labors for years.
	The Relief Society has from the first
taken up various lines of work, and its
members have sought to stimulate the
energies of those in need of assistance to
self-helpfulness, trying to open up ave-
nues of employment for women and chil-
dren, as well as homes for the needy, and
places to meet in and to keep their small
or large possessions; for this purpose land
had to be purchased, therefore dealing in
real estate became necessary, not for
speculation but for permanency; and the
Society became land-owners, having right
of domain.
	The first real estate owned by this So-
ciety was given by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, the promoter and organizer of this
remarkable institution; the first woman’s
society of any magnitude we are aware
of, and we may say with all propriety,
the best and most thoroughly organized
throughout the world.
	The actual value of its temporal
strength would be difficult to estimate, as
it does not consist wholly in tangible
things, for it has withal so strong a hold
upon its supporters, that it is as a part of
their own lives. This is what gives to the
Society its most important values. This
can scarcely be comprehended by those
outside of the main working forces of the
organization, but where women have
given the best part of their lives to its es-
tablishment and maintenance, they can
understand what it means.
	Speaking of such laborers in the work,
who have been specially strong pillars in
the Society, and upon whom grave re-
sponsibilities have rested, there are many
still living (besides those beloved ones
who are gone behind the vail) who de-
serve to have their names upon a Roll of
Honor, too many to mention in a brief
notice, but to those who stand foremost
now, a fitting word of praise should be ac-
corded, and it would be almost impossi-
ble not to record here the names of our
General President, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith and Sister Jane S. Richards, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Weber
Stake. The strength and popularity (if I

[Column 2]
may be allowed the term) of the Society
owes much to its veteran women.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow, whose sayings we
frequently quote, often remarked, “Make
anything popular and its success is as-
sured.” We want to make the Relief So-
ciety popular, it is already a success, and
our young people, both boys and girls,
should become familiar with the worth
and importance of this Society. An institu-
tion that holds in trust real estate, houses
and lands, wheat and merchandise and
various other property, including libra-
ries, cannot be considered as occupying
an inferior place in a community. There
have been many enterprises and home in-
dustries started and managed by women
under the auspices of this Society, not all
successful, but in the majority of cases
they have flourished.
	In caring for the sick and dying, it is
extremely doubtful if any other organiza-
tion in the world has done anything like
as much; in the silk industry, when Sister
Zina D. H. Young was President of it and
traveled this Western country over to
start the enterprise, it was the sisters of
the Relief Society that raised mulberry
trees, fed the worms, reeled the cocoons
and from the silk mannfactured articles
of apparel, also elegant and dainty silk
laces, ties, fichus and ribbons. Without
enumerating all the things we might, to
prove the assertions we have made and
are prepared to verify, we will just
mention that we started a Hospital with-
out funds, rented a house, and depending
almost entirely on monthly donations
from the Relief Society, and some paying
patients, carried it on for twelve years
under the auspices of a Board of Direc-
tors appointed by the General Society,
and it was estimated that two-thirds of
the cases treated were purely charity
work.
	Within the last few years Nurses’
Classes have been taught under the au-
spices of the Society, and we are safe in
saying that so far these classes have
been eminently successful and we may
add popular.
	On the seventeenth of March next
month it will be sixty-four years since the
Relief Society was organized, and it is
hoped that each separate branch will ob-
serve that day in some way significant,
not only of the past but of its present
prosperity and future growth and perma-
nency. It must grow and increase not
only in intelligence and attainments, mor-
ally and spiritually, that will benefit the
community generally as well as individu-
als, but in force and power by means of
thrift, wisdom and economy in the man-
agement of its enterprises and affairs
generally.
	The substantial things count for a great
deal, such as buildings for uses of meet-
ings, or homes for the homeless, and
granaries or bins for the storing of wheat
or breadstuff against a day of want or
famine. This is an enterprise entirely
new to women until our sisters com-
menced it, and the signs of the times are
even more significant now than ever be-
fore in this regard. The recent news of
the famine in Japan must certainly
awaken the tenderest pity and compas-
sion, and a desire to reach out a helping
hand to them in such sore need. In con-
sideration of these things and the proph-
ecies of modern as well as past times, it
behooves us to be always on duty, as a So-

[Column 3]
ciety that stands for relief with charity
and mercy for watchwords.
	It is certainly desired by those who have
at heart the best interests of this Society,
that this anniversary of the 17th of
March, 1906, shall be the banner year,
that the sisters shall rouse themselves to
extra exertions in each respective locality
and try to make every member happy
and glad in the spirit of love and bless-
ing in whatever form the demonstration
may be made, that all who will may par-
take of the enjoyment.


UNIQUE PARTY.
	The General Officers and Board of the
Y. L. N. M. I. A. entertained in a most
pleasing and hospitable manner the Gen-
eral Officers and Board of the Relief So-
ciety and Primary Association at the
residence of Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall on
West Temple St., where very many not-
able gatherings have been held, from
time to time for years past.
	The party was given as a tribute of re-
spect and honor in memory of two of the
most illustrious women in Church history
and who have each of them occupied the
position of “Elect Lady” in the Relief
Society, Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Zina
D. H. Young, whose names are coupled
together as household words through-
out all modern Israel.
	The desire of those now living who
knew these veteran sisters intimately, is
to keep their memories fresh and green
in the hearts of the younger generation,
that they may not only honor their
names, but follow in their footsteps, re-
membering that these heroines “blazed
the way” for the grand opportunities
open to them and those who follow after.
There are many others whose names we
mention with reverence, but these two
lives were closely blended and anniver-
saries of their birth come in the same
month. Sister Eliza R. Snow was born
Jan. 21, 1804, and Sister Zina D. H.
Young Jan. 31, 1821. Therefore, it
seemed a very fitting thing to meet in
memory of both between the two dates.
	Ceneral President Martha H. Tingey of
the Young Ladies’ Associations, ap-
pointed an able committee to take charge
of the program, Sisters Minnie J. Snow,
Julia A. Brixon and Joan Campbell.
	About fifty or more guests were gath-
ered at 2 p. m., the appointed hour, and
as a prelude to the opening the hymn by E.
R. Snow, “O, awake my slumbering min-
strel, was sung, young Mrs. Tuddenham
leading. General President, (really the
hostess of the occasion) made an informal
address of welcome that drew all hearts
towards her in sympathy and love for the
great loss she had so recently sustained in
the death of her beloved mother, Sister
M. Isabella Horne, who had always on
like occasions been present, and taken an
active part, a woman of affairs, both spir-
itual and temporal. General President
Sister Bathsheba W, Smith, responded
in behalf of the Relief Society, and spoke
in endearing terms of Sister Eliza R. and
Zina D. with whom she had been asso-
ciated and labored for so many years,
and rejoiced in meeting with those she
met here. General President Louie B.
Felt responded feelingly in behalf of the
Primary Association and paid a glowing
tribute to the women who had helped


[Column 1]
forward the work for the little people,
and had given her encouragement to
persevere in the mammoth undertaking.
	A quartette by the young ladies was
given, “Though deep’ning trials,” etc.,
and very much enjoyed by all.
	Greetings were then exchanged and
lively conversation kept up, piano solos
intervening, Miss Mattie Reed recently re-
cently returned from studying in Ger-
many, giving some choice musical selec-
tions; remarks were also made by several
of the sisters in appreciation of Sisters
Eliza R. and Zina D., the benefits de-
rived from their personal acquaintance,
and thelr remarkable life work. Those
who responded were Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Sister Ida S. Dusenberry, Emily S.
Richards, Edna L. Smith, Sarah Jenne
Cannon, Margaret P. Young, President
Bathsheba W. Smith, who referred lov-
ingly to Sisters Eliza and Zina, and Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts who spoke in rather
a humorous vein and Ruth M. Fox
	The most appetizing refreshments were
served to the guests by the young ladies
of the Board in their very charming and
delightful manner, and meantime Presi-
dents Joseph F. Smith and John R. Win-
der arrived, having been unavoidably de-
tained with business engagements. Broth-
er W. B. Dougall was also present.
	Later the program was taken up, Sis-
ter Minnie J. Snow, chairman, making
an impromptu speech giving some inci-
dents connected with her illustrious kins-
woman, and introducing as the first on
the program, her little daughter Lucile,
who was the nearest relative present to
the celebrated poet whose hymns are now
sung in many languages. Little Lucile, in
a very sweet and graceful style, sang the
entire hymn, “O, my Father Thou that
dwellest,” her mother playing the ac-
companiment. 
	Sister E. B. Wells had been given the
subject, “Sister Eliza as a Mother in
Israel.” The speaker dwelt at some
length on the life-work of this distin-
guished woman organizer, philanthrop-
ist, poet, writer and author, and as a
mother in deed to many thousands of
men and women, strictly speaking.
	Sister May Anderson spoke of a num-
ber of incidents in the life of Sister Eliza
that were fraught with intense tnterest to
the children of Zion and Primary work-
ers. Sister May B Talmage read with
fine expression and depth of feeling, Sis-
ter Eliza’s poem entitled “Evening
Thoughts, or What It Is To Be A Saint.”
Sister Maria Y. Dougall spoke more
especially of Sister Eliza’s motherly qual-
ities, though she had never been a moth-
er, and paid a charming tribute to her
labors among the children, also of her
foster-mother, Sister Zina, her delightful
story telling to all the children in her
rooms in the Lion House, and her regu-
lar daily prayers with those under her
care, Sister Susa Y. Gates also gave
reminiscences of the Lion House days,
mentioning along with Sister Eliza R.
and Zina D, some incidents connected
with her own mother’s sojourn in the
Lion House. President John R. Winder
favored the audience with brief remarks
and gave them good advice, alluded to
Sister Eliza’s peculiar and trying exper-
iences and asked that Sister Bathsheba
Smith relate the incident of Sister Eliza’s
composing the hymn that had just been
ung, O, my Father.” Sister Bathsheba

[Column 2]
responded, relating the conditions under
which Sister Eliza was inspired to write
the beautiful hymn that has thrilled the
souls of so many thousands.
	President Joseph F. Smith made an
eloquent and inspirational address to the
women of Zion, encouraging them to ex-
cel in all that would make for the uplift-
ing of humanity and the spread of truth
and righteousness.
	The exercises closed with all joining in
singing the hymn, “‘Mid scenes of con-
fusion and creature complaints,”––chorus
Home, Sweet Home. Benediction was
pronounced by Elder W. B. Dougall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HEART OF MY HEART.
	Ellis Meredith, a noted newspaper wo-
man and journalist, also a fine speaker,
who has traveled considerably to speak
on the suffrage question, has recently
published a book on motherhood relating
to children, in which she embodies some
original ideas of her own, the story is
exquisitely told.
	In her very first chapter she says, after
having opened with the creation, “We
prate wisely of Nature and her processes,
but after all, what do we know of the
mystery of life! We may speak glibly of
blood and brain, bone and sinew, but how
or why certain elements build tissue and
others nerves, none of us can tell. We
only know that it is as it was in the begin-
ning. She was wiser who said, ‘My soul
doth magnify the Lord.’”
	She touches deeply and beautifully up-
on the joys of maternity, the relations of
father and mother towards their offspring
before and after birth; true and false
conditions, and brings in many wise and
helpful sayings that stir the soul to
thoughts of high and lofty life-purposes,
though they are simple, homely things
that all women can understand if they
will. It is unlike any book we have ever
seen and must meet a want in the pa-
rents’ classics that no other book we have
seen ever has. We may certainly call it
rare among books. She speaks of liking
the old Greek idea that made men bow
before a woman approaching maternity.
Here is one paragraph with which I will
close this brief notice:
	“Child of my heart, lying under my
heart, with my relationship to you has
grown a new relationship to your father:
he is more than lover, husband and king;
high priest of the Most High; love has
become sacred and holy beyond words,
almost beyond thought. I have been
singing low to myself that beautiful solo
from ‘The Messiah’:
	‘He shall feed his flocks like a shepherd,
and gently, gently leadeth those that are
with young.’”


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The anniversary of the birthday of Miss
Susan B. Anthony, Honorary President
of the N. W, S. A., and one of the most
famous women of our time, perhaps the
most renowned, was celebrated in Wash-
ington, D. C, on Thursday, February 15,
and on the same day a committee from
the N. W. S. A., of whom she had charge
had a hearing before the Woman Suffrage
Committee of Congress. Mrs. F. S.
Richards, and Mrs. Joseph Howell, of
Utah were among the number.

[Column 2]
	An excellent illustrated article of Mrs.
Mary Wood Swift appeared in the Feb-
ruary number of “The Ladies Review.”
Mrs. Swift is the president of the Nation-
al Council of Women of the United
States; she is a very handsome woman of
high cultivation, has refined taste and an
excellent heart, she is just and upright in
character, and is a humanitarian in prin-
ciple. Her history as told is extreme-
ly interesting, but that which is untold
must be even more delightful. She is
fearless for the right, a staunch suffra-
gist, and withal a woman in whom to re-
pose confidence without doubts of her
untrustworthiness.
	At last a woman has argued a case be-
fore the supreme court of the United
States, and the roof of the old senate
chamber, where the court meets in Wash-
ington, has not fallen in. Women began
to be admitted as practitioners in the su-
preme court many years ago, but no wo-
man has ever stood up and conducted
one of these animated conversations with
the big gentlemen in black gowns which
is called arguing a case in the supreme
court room. It fell to the lot of Mrs.
Belva Lockwood, the pioneer woman
lawyer in Washington, to perform this
feat, and she is said to have acquitted
herself well.—Hartford Times.
	The Executive session of the National
Council of Women will be held in Toledo,
Ohio, the first week in April. Sunday
evening, April 1st, there will be religious
exercises, President Mary Wood Swift
presiding; distinguished speakers will ad-
dress the meeting. Monday, Tuesday
and Wednesday morning will be executive
sessions for the transaction of business.
Afternoon sessions will be given to reports
or papers from affiliated societies. The
evening programs will be arranged by the
Local Council of Toledo under the super-
vision of Mrs. Pauline Steinem. Promin-
ent speakers will address these meetings
and the public is invited to be present.
Mrs. Steinem is one of the most charming
women we have ever met, brilliant, logi-
cal, affable and altogether lovable.
	The National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion held its 38th Annual Convention in
Baltimore, Md., this year, from Wednes-
day, Feb. 7th to 13th inclusive. Susan
B. Anthony, Pioneer suffragist and Hon-
orary President, was present and partici-
pated as usual, though the Associated
Press has not sent much news of the pro-
ceedings westward. Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards, President of the Utah Suffrage or-
ganization, is in Baltimore, and will ably
represent Utah in all movements for ad-
vancement of the cause of women. She
has been for many years engaged in the
work and is thoroughly qualified. We
hear she has been joined in Baltimore by
Mrs. Joseph Howell and Mrs. John Henry
Smith.
	Mrs. Mary E. Howell, wife of our Utah
representative in Congress, Hon. Joseph
Howell, gave an elegant reception at
their residence in Washington, D. C.,
1828 Calvert street, on the Heights. Mrs.
Howell was assisted by her sweet daugh-
ter, Mrs. Lewis T. Cannon. “Mrs. How-
ell wore a handsome costume of black
lace over white silk, and Mrs. Cannon


was pretty and attractive in a toilette of
white silk. There were ices and other
dainties served amidst an atmosphere
of hospitality and homeness. Mr. and
Mrs. Cannon have two interesting young
hopefuls to add greater vitality to the
bright family circle of Mr. and Mrs. How-
ell. Mrs. Howell will receive again early
in February.” At a recent levee at the
White House, among the guests were
Representative and Mrs. Howell, Senator
and Mrs. Heyburn, Mr. and Mrs. Cannon,
also Senator Warren of Wyoming.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
EFFORT MAY OVERCOME ENVIRON-
			MENT.
	In dealing with a text so sweeping in
its assertiveness, one is met on the
threshold of its consideration by a ques-
tion of its truth, to those who have stood
face to face with the problems of life, and
have battled with its difficulties, winning
after the utmost effort but a partial suc-
cess; who have witnessed the struggles of
friends and neighbors as they, too, have
sought to shape circumstances to their
needs; and have seen them go down to
defeat, such an assertion may seem but
a mockery of their distress, and yet there
is much to sustain the assumption. No
good, great or small, has ever been ac-
complished but by effort. But for effort,
man would yet be housed in the caves of
the earth, disputing with the beasts of the
forests his right to supremacy. Every ad-
vance in the fields of intelligence and civ-
ilization has been won only by long con-
tinued effort and perseverance. The
struggle upward, from darkness into
light, has been long and tedious, the way
beset with difficulties; but little by little
the advance has been made, the mind has
b[-]en developed and the earth subdued;
education has widened the field of oppor-
tunity, science has lain bare the secrets of
the heavens, art and industry have filled
the world with beauty and comfort, and
we of today are enjoying the fruits of the
efforts, and successes, of the toilers of the
past. Every victory gained brings to view
others to be won.
	The world is still progressing, and will
continue to do so; it is for us to say,
whether we shall go on with it to its ulti-
mate destiny, as a fit dwelling place for
the Master, or, allowing ourselves to fall
behind, be pushed aside, forgotten or de-
spised.
	Work is one of the first great laws of
the universe, we cannot escape its man-
dates; then if we must labor, let us look
well to the manner of its performance.
“What is worth doing at all is worth
well doing.” Let us train our hands to
skilled and practical industry, cultivate
our minds and train them to do their best.
Brains grow strong by use. If we would
have strong minds, we must put them to
right thinking. If we would succeed we
must be sure our efforts are well directed.
If our desires are great, let us see that
they are such as God and conscience can
approve; then bend our energies to their
attainment, stand firm and persevere,
learn to labor and to wait. It required
the labor of thousands of men through
many years to complete the Pyramids of
Egypt, but they stand today, after the
lapse of centuries, a wonder of the world,
and a monument to the industry and per-

[Column 2]
sistent effort of the toilers whose weary
hands have long since crumbled to dust.
	Little by little by little the ant builds
his home, gathering his material by slow
degrees, here a tiny pebble, there a twig
or glittering fragment; toiling early and
late, never counting fatigue, pushing aside
obstacles. overcoming difficulties and
teaching by his silent industry a lesson of
persevering effort. Shall we who boast
superior intelligence be content with less
success?
	Character is either the stepping-stone
to success or the stumbling-block over
which we trip and go down to defeat.
Every man and every woman is the build-
er of his or her character. As we build
so shall the structure stand.
	If our characters be strong, we shall not
falter mid the trials and battles of life;
but be our station high or low, will strug-
gle on to perfection in our sphere.
	Life at best is but a continual warfare
of the good and bad within our breasts;
let us be valiant in upholding the right.
	It requires as much courage to meet the
little trials of daily life as would be nec-
essary to lead an army up to the firing
line; and not all of the heroes are to be
found on the field of battle.
	Every morning brings a renewal of op-
portunity. Every day is a little life, and re-
peated days make up the cycle of the years;
as our days are spent, so shall the years
be counted, and their record stand through
time and eternity.
	Let us seek for contentment with our
surroundings; it matters not so much
where we are as what we are; not so
much what our life’s duties may be as
how we discharge the obligations. God
created all things, great and small, let us
honor His work by respecting ourselves.
	Better be a little mountain daisy, lend-
ing grace and sweetness to some barren
hillside, than a gorgeous rose lost mid a
maze of beauty in a garden of flowers.
There is no environment so undesirable
that we cannot profit by its lessons and
better its conditions.
	If we wish for hlgher places, let us fit
ourselves to fill and adorn them.
	The great men of our country, those
who have outlined its policies and shaped
its destinies–– Webster, Clay, Jackson,
Lincoln and many others–– were almost,
without exception, of poor and obscure
parentage; yet by personal effort and
force of character, they rose to greatness
and power, and while the nation stands
their names and deeds will shine as a bea-
con light to struggling ambition.
	The conditions surrounding the early
settlers of these valleys and the whole
west, emphasize the fact that effort not
only may but has overcome environment.
Who that considers the struggles of those
first great pioneers, in their efforts to
redeem the desert wastes, can doubt its
truth? But for their courage and perse-
verance this fertile valley would still be
unreclaimed, a rendezvous for roaming
bands of Indians.
	All about us is nature in her sublimest
aspect; every day she is giving forth in-
spiration in sunshine and shade, in cloud
and shadow. The mountains are calling
to us to “come up higher,” shall we be
content to grovel at their feet, mere plod-
ders in the ruts of ignorance and sloth?
	There is no age limit set for the ac-
quirement of knowledge. “Never too old
to learn” is a well worn saying but a true

[Column 3]
one. Gladstone, England’s greatest mod-
ern statesman, began the study of a for-
eign language when nearly eighty years of
age, and mastered it so well that he was
enabled to win a great diplomatic victory
for his country over a hostile rival. Never
give up to the advancing years; we are
just as old as we think ourselves to be.
There will always be something for us to
do; let us keep up the fight as long as we
can. Better die with a new task unfin-
ished than sit idle, too timid to begin.
	If we would accomplish anything
worth while, we must bring faith and
courage to our task. He who only half
tries will but half succeed; if after we have
done our best failure comes, let us not be
discouraged, resistance will but strengthen
the sinews for greater effort. Do not fear
to stand alone. The tree forced to meet
the wind, but sinks its roots deeper into
the soil, and stands firm for repeated
blasts.
	If we go to the highest peak in our
lofty mountains, there, on its bleak brow,
we shall find the Pinion Pine, far below,
are his more timid kindred of the forest,
clinging to favored places, sheltered on
sunny slopes from the chilling winds,
and drawing nourishment from the yield-
ing soil, while he, aspiring to loftier place,
strikes for the summit, and wrapping the
forbidding rocks with his roots, struggles
upward to his goal. The winds roar fierce-
ly about him, shriek through his scanty
branches, and toss his defiant plumes,
they but increase the tension of his
gnarled roots, and, bending his trunk to
meet the rocks, he mounts steadily up-
ward till his pinion sweeps the arching
skyline, and he stands supreme, king of
the mountains.
	As in nature so in human affairs, it is
ever the brave and enduring who win in
the race.
	Should the winds of adversity assail you,
		Or storms beat in fury where you tread,
	Should friends grow cold or desert you,
		Be not dismayed, there is light overhead.
	’Tis easy to drift with the shore tide,
		It takes courage to breast the wave,
	Better fall where the battle is fiercest
		Than sink in a coward’s grave.
				ELEANOR P. GROSEBECK


MOTHER’S WORK.
		MARICOPA STAKE.

	Lesson 1.—Sacredness of Home.

	(a) What does it mean? (b) How to
get the children’s confidence. We should
never lose it, and thus let it become nec-
essary to regain it. (c) Uproot evil by
planting good.

	Lesson 2.—Social Purity.
	
	(a) How shall we create a higher social
standing? (b) Provide reading matter
for the children that will entertain while
it instructs; stories of noble men and
women, and brave and noble deeds. (c)
Provide plenty of innocent amusements,
healthful exercises and agreeable employ-
ment for our young people, and mingle 
with them in their amusements.

	Lesson 3.—School Life of Children.

	(a) Teach them to respect their prin-
pal and teachers. Avoid criticisms in
their hearing. (b) Train them early to


[Column 1]
do every thing possible for themselves in 
getting ready for school. (c) Teach them
the necessity of regularity in attendance,
punctuality and obedience.

		Lesson 4.—Self Culture.

	(a) Cultivate a love for the beauties of
nature. Beautiful flowers, beautiful scen-
ery and beautiful pictures create beauti-
ful thoughts, and beautiful thoughts make
good deeds and beautiful faces. (b) Use
good language and avoid slang. (c)
Study self-control. If we cannot control
ourselves we cannot control our chil-
dren. 

		Lesson 5.—Our Children.

	(a) The rights of childhood. We are
apt to think that children have no rights
which we are bound to respect. (b) We
should respect their rights and feelings,
and thus teach them to respect ours. (c)
Cultivate truth and honesty in them by
being truthful and honest ourselves. (d)
Never tell an untruth to a child for any
purpose.
	
		Lesson 6.—Our Sons.

	(a) Teach our boys to be pure in their 
lives. (b) Teach them to protect the
opposite sex from harm at all times. (c)
Teach them how to be good husbands
and fathers.

		Lesson 7.—Our Daughters.

	(a) Be frank and truthful with them in
all things and thus win and retain their
confidence. (b) How to conduct them-
selves in the presence of young men. (c)
Teach them how to take care of children
and sick people. (d) Teach them to be 
good wives and mothers.

	Lesson 8.—Motherhood: its Duties and
			Responsibilities.

	(a) The highest calling and the choicest
blessing is the gift of motherhood. (b)
The right of every child to be well-born.
(c) A child's education should begin at
least a year before it is born. (d) How
mothers can influence and endow their
unborn children.

	Lesson 9. Woman’s Influence.

	(a) The power of a charming woman to
lead men up to all that is noble, or down
to the depths of degredation. (b) Wom-
an's duty to keep herself neat and at-
tractive after marriage as well as be-
fore.

		Lesson 10.—Virtue.

	(a) The crown of womanhood. (b)
A virtuous woman—her price is far above
rubies. (c) We should be diligent in
teaching our children to guard their vir-
tue as they would their lives.

	Lesson 7.—Respect for the Aged.

	(a) “Honor thy father and thy mother.”
(b) Teach children to show respect and
kindness. (c) How can children best
lighten their parents’ burdens and show
them the greatest honor? (d) Teach
children to be respectful to old age every-
where. 

	Lesson 12. True Object of Relief
		Society Work.

	(a) Visiting the sick. (b) Looking after
the poor and needy. (c) Words of cheer

[Column 2]
and comfort to the down-hearted. Kind
words and a pleasant smile are sometimes
of more value than temporal aid. (d)
Improvement in home life. Make home
attractive.
			CELIA A. SMITH,
Cor. Sec. of Maricopa Stake R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Tribute to the memory of Sister Catherine A.
Conover, who died Jan, 5. 1906. Our dear Sister
was lovingly called “Aunt Kate.” The news of
her death will indeed bring sorrow to many
hearts
	Especially will she be missed by the Mutual
Improvement girls and Temple workers in San-
pete Stake, as well as her own loved ones.
	She came to Sanpete in 1889, and was called
as a Temple worker, and for the past ten years
was Matron of the Manti Temple.
	After she joined the Manti Ward, she was
chosen as second Counselor to the Stake President
of the Y. L. M. I. A., which position she held for
about ten years. Her counsel was of a sweet and
encouraging nature. How her heart would swell
with love for the youth of Israel. She was much
interested in their welfare. Her wise counsel,
given always in the spirit of kindness and humil-
ity will be greatly missed. She was always kind
and gentle in her manner, full of charity and sym-
pathy so that all who knew her loved her She
was indeed an example of unselfish devotion to
her loved ones, as well as her friends and in fact
all with whom she was associuted. She possessed
the true spirit of hospitality.
She is not dead, who toiled for Zion’s cause,
	Truth’s advocate endowed with noble zeal,
Truly her fixed determination was
	To do on earth our Heavenly Father’s will.
Just now her friendly face we cannot see,
	But none the less fond memory holds her dear,
She lives! she lives and sings rejoicingly,
	With many loved ones in a loftier ephere.
					C. & M. WILLARDSON.


[Column 1]
	Sister Nancy Margaret Osborn Nielson was
born in Greene Co., Indiana, March 8, 1840.
Came to Utah in 1852 with her father’s family; her
mother died on the plains. They settled in East
Weber Weber Co. Utah. On Feb. 11, 1857, she
was married to Elder Hans Enoch Nielson. They
were among the first settlers of Hyrum, coming
here in the year 1860. She was the mother of
eleven children, six of whom will meet her on the
other side, while five, three sons and two
daugh ers are left here to revere the memory of a
kind and loving mother.
	Oh the 9th of May, 1878, she was chosen as
Secretary of the Hyrum Ward Relief Society of
which she had been a member since its organiza-
tion, ten years before, May 9, 1868. She made a
most efficient Secretary and performed her duty
faithfully until Nov. 1, 1891 when she was honor-
ably released. Seven months later she was again
chosen one of the officers of the Relief Society in
the Hyrum Ward, this time as first Counselor. In
May, 1893, she was chosen President of the Relief
Society, which office she held until Feb. 1899, when
on account of failing health she was honorably
released, but on the 25th of October, 1901, when
the Hyrum Ward had been divided into three
wards, Sister N M. Nielson was again chosen
as first counselor in the Ward in which she re-
sided (Hyrum 3rd Ward). Her health did not
improve, however, and on July 18, 1904, she was
again released.
	She was an energetic and able president, a wise
counselor, a true friend. and a faithful Latter-day
Saint. She died Feb. 2, 1906, at Hyrum, Utah.
		Her trials are o’er, the victory won,
		The reward of faithful Saints is sure.
			May we cherish her memory,
			May it lead us on,
		Till the end of our days, and our race is run.
						GEORGENE RALPH.
In Loving Remembrance of Emily Eliza Maddi-
	son; who died very suddenly of heart failure.
	At Providence, Utah, November 28, 1905, Emily
Eliza Hemming, the beloved wife of John F.
Maddison; she was born in Coventry, Eng-

[Column 2]
land, on the 3rd day of January, 1837, Em-
braced the Gospel in her youth and was banished
several times from her father’s house for the gos-
pel’s sake; crossed the sea in the ship William
Tapscott; she waited on the sick during the voy-
age; arrived in Utah in 1859; lived the first winter
in Wellsville, Cache County, and then went to
Providence to her permanent home. She married
John F. Maddison in 1860, and had five children,
who died in their infancy, but she reared two
motherless children. In her younger days she took
an active part in the Primary and Sunday School
work and identified herself with the Relief Soci-
ety from the beginning, and was the first secre-
tary, and at her death was first counselor to the
President. Through all her affliction of sorrow
and trouble and all the hardships of a new country
she was never known to complain. She was a
faithful wife and mother; she was always willing
to wait upon the sick and render assistance to the
poor in their distress; was a true, faithful Latter-
day Saint, and was beloved by all the Saints.
		CHRISTINA THEURER, President.
		JEMIMA CAMPBELL, Secretary
				Providence Relief Society.
	SKETCH OF SISTER MARY JOHN.
	Sister Mary John was born in Wales Dec. 23,
1831; became converted to the doctrines of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in
the year 1857. Was married to David John, now
President of the Utah Stake of Zion, in Cardiff,
South Wales, Feb. 8, 1860, They left Livevpool,
April 16, 1861, in the ship Manchester; and
reached Provo five months later, where they lo-
cated and remained until her death.
	Sis[-]er John held the position of secretary of
the Third Ward Relief Society for ten years. For
eleven years she was counselor to Margaret T.
Smoot in the presidency of the Utah Stake Relief
Society, and at the death of Sister Smoot suc-
ceeded her as president, which position she has
filled for twenty-one years.
	She was a faithful worker and was loved and
respected by all who knew her. She was the
mother of one son and eight daughters, one son
and three daughters now living.
	Sister John was one of those noble spirits re-
served to come forth in the latter days, and has
lived the life of a true Saint, Her death occurred
Dec. 14, 1905, the immediate cause being pneu-
monia, and she is sincerely mourned by her many
friends.							C. B. P.
	DEATH OF ONE OF OUR BELOVED SISTERS.
	Sister Mary A. Morton Smith was the daughter
of Albert and Josephine Norton, and the wife of
Albert S. Smith.
	She was born Sept. 29, 1874; died Sept. 26, 1905,
at her parents’ home in Panguitch. At an early
age she was associated with the Primary Associa-
tion and the Mutual Improvement Association.
For a number of years she was secretary, treas-
urer and librarian of the Y. L. M. I. Association
of Panguitch.
	In 1901 she was married to Albert S. Smith of
Parowan. They made their home in Circleville,
where she became an active member of the Relief
Society and of the Y. L. M. I. A. at Circleville;
these positions she filled wite honor.
	She was the mother of three childten, all of
whom died in infancy. She leaves a husband, a
father and mother, two brothers and a sister, as
well as many rolatives and a large circle of
friends to mourn her loss.
	The funeral services were held in the meeting-
house, at 3 o’clock on the 8th. The speakers all,
spoke of the good qualities of the departed. The,
choir rendered beautiful singing. May her loved
ones be comforted, in the assurance that she is not
dead but gone to continne her labors in a higher
and better world.				M. L. H.
		ELIZABETH P. NEWTON.
			(Died Dec. 3, 1905.)
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
in his infinite wisdom, to remove from our midst
by the hand of death, one of our most esteemed
teachers, Elizabeth Parker Newton; and,
	Whereas. In her departura we have sustained
the loss of a true friend and devoted worker,
whose presence it was a pleasure to enjoy, and
whose life and example is well worthy the emula-
tion of all.
	Therefore, Be it resolved, That we tender our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family, in this
their sad hour of affliction and distress, and that
her memory be cherished as a sacred inheritance,
to remain with us as long as life shall last, with
the hope of meeting in a brighter world.
	And be it further resolved, That a copy of


these resolutions be recorded upon the minutes of
the Nineetenth Ward Relief Society.
			ELIZA K. WILLIS.
		(Died December 29, 1905.)
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father,
in His infinite wisdom, to remove from our midst,
by the hand of death, one of our most esteemed
teachers, Eliza K. Willis; and,
	Whereas, in her departure we have sustained
the loss of a true friend and devoted worker,
whose presence it was a pleasure to enjoy, and
whose life and example is well worthy the emu-
lation of all
	Therefore, Be it resolved, That we tender our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family in this
their hour of affliction and distress, and that her
memory be cherished as a sacred inheritance, to
remain with us as long as life shall last, with the
hope of meeting in a brighter world.
	And be it further resolved. That a copy of these
resolutions be recorded upon the minutes of the
Nineteenth Ward Relief Society.
	Committee: Sarah A. Hancock, Chairman;
Agnes G. Branch, Victoria Thurman, Officers
and Members Nineteenth Ward Relief Society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
			67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
[--] ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No. 1 East Temple Street.


PARTY AT PLEASANT VIEW.
	The sisters of Pleasant View, Weber
Co., met at the home of Mrs. M. A. Cra-
gun, January 18, 1906, to celebrate the
thirtieth anniversary of their organization
and surprise our president, Mary J. May-
cock, who has served in this capacity
since our organization.
	After partaking of a sumptuous repast,
we held a splendid meeting, where Bishop
Charles A. Hickenlooper spoke of the
good work the sisters had performed,
and a number of others made timely re-
marks.
	Pres. Maycock and her first counselor,
Sister Eliza P. Rhees, who has served in
this capacity the greater part of thirty
years, were each presented with a beau-
tiful vase as a token of our love and es-
teem for their long labor in this society,
	The following song, composed by Sis-
ter Eliza P. Rhees and sung at our
last annual day program, was rendered
during the meeting;
	(Tune: Home, Sweet Home.)
In the year of our history eighteen forty-two,
In the beautiful city of the Saints called Na uvoo,
There Joseph the Prophet, inspired from above,
Ordained our dear sisters their labor of love.
			CHORUS:
	Come, sisters, come;
		We’ll all be united, and ever be one.
He said, “You’re appointed and now set apart
To labor in Zion to comfort the hearts
Of the poor and the needy, the sick and depressed,
The widow and orphan in lonely distress.
			Chorus,
Look well to the orphans, and teach them the way
From  paths of true virtue never to stray;
And counsel the wayward, where’er they may be
To overcome evil and from sin to be free.
			Chorus,
By feeding the hungry and clothing the poor,
Never turning the needy away from our door,
With benevolence true and charity mild,
We’ll endeavor to bless every woman and child.
			Chorus.
			M. A. CRAGUN,
				Assistant Secretary.


HONORING SISTER LINDSAY.
	Brief report of an exceedingly pleasant
party given Feb. 2nd 1906, at 2, p. m, in
honor of the 82nd anniversary of the
birthday of our beloved President, Julia
P. Lindsay in Paris, Idaho.
	The social was given by her counselor,
Sister Amelia Hoge of Paris, at whose
home we were cordially welcomed and
pleasantly entertained.
	Among those present were the Stake
Presidency, Wm. Budge, Jas. H. Hart,
and Wm. L. Rich.
	Stake officers of the Relief Society, Y.
L. M. I. A., and Primary Association.
	One pleasing feature of the program
was an address by Pres. Wm. Budge,
who paid a glowing tribute to Sister
Lindsay, for her unceasing energy, and
untiring devotion in the Relief Society
work for twenty-seven years.
	A beau iful song was rendered by Misses
Lizzie Hoge and Sarah Grimmett. Pres.
Lindsay gratefully acknowledged the
kindness of her friends.
	The guests, about thirty in number,
partook of a sumptuous meal and then
dispersed, rejoicing in the privilege of
participating in such an enjoyable re-
union.
NANCY H. ALLRED,
R. S. Stake Sec.


R. S. REPORT.
HYRUM STAKE.
	The conference of Hyrum stake Relief
society was held in the Stake House at
Hyrum, November 18, 1905, President
Nellie E. Parkinson presiding, Counselor
Lovisa H. Allen taking charge of the
forenoon meeting. After the usual open-
ing exercises, Hyrum first and second
wards also College ward were reported
in good condition by the respective presi-
dents,
	Sister Zina Y. Card spoke at length
upon the duties of the Relief Society in
regard to the training of the young peo-
ple and the beauties of the organization,
	Bishop L. P. Christiansen of Mt. Ster-
ling ward spoke encouragingly to the sis-
ters, and asked the Lord to bless them in
their noble work.
	Singing, "Guide us, O thou great Jeho-
vah." Benediction was pronounced by
Elder Elias Davis of Mendon.
	The afternoon session convened at 2
p.m. President Nellie Parkinson again
presided, with Counselor Elizabeth
Critchlow taking charge of the exercises.
After singing and prayer, roll call showed
213 members present. Minutes of the
afternoon session of the conference held
August 15, 1905, read and approved.
	A lecture from the "Outlines" on Court-
ship was given by Sister Vilate Davis of
Avon.
	A song was rendered by a member of
College ward Relief Society, after which
Sister Rose Needham of Logan spoke of
the many blessings she had received; en-
couraged the sisters to do their duties
cheerfully and to look upon the bright


side of life; also sang "Count your bless-
ings."
	Sister Zina Y. Card again addressed the
congregation. We need to attend all of
our meetings; we live but one day at a
time, so do not worry, but live each day
as near right as possible. We are here
to be tried, but many of our trials are of
our own making. The Spirit of God is
with us when we strive to do our duty.
Look well after our children, love them,
pray with them, make them worthy men
and women, and you will be blessed.
	President Nellie E. Parkinson said: It
has been a privilege to be here today.
May we take to our hearts the advice and
instructions we have heard, and may our
Father help us to do our duty.
	Singing, "Prayer is the soul's sincere de-
sire. Benediction by Counselor Lovisa
Allen. N. E. P.


In the House of Representatives, Dec.
7th, 1905, Mr. French introduced the fol-
lowing bill, which was referred to the
Committee on Election of President,
Vice-President, and Representatives in
Congress, and ordered to be printed:
	A bill to protect the rights of women
citizens of the United States to register
and vote for members of the House of
Representatives.
	Whereas, The right to choose members
of the House of Representatives is vest-
ed by the Constitution in the people of
the several States without distinction of
sex, but for want of proper legislation,
has hitherto been restricted to one-half
of the people. For the purpose, there-
fore, of correcting this error and of giv-
ing effect to the Constitution,
	Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, that
women who are citizens of the United
States, and possess such qualifications of
age, residence, property, or education, as
may be required of men to make them
legal voters in the several States, shall be
eligible to register and vote in all States
of the Union at all elections for members
of the House of Representatives.


SPICE CAKE.—One cup of sugar, one-
half cup of butter, one-half cup of molas-
ses, and one scant teaspoonful each of
cinnamon, allspice, cloves, and a little
nutmeg; beat well together, then add one
cup of sour milk. with one tespoonful of
soda stirred in until it is quite foamy. 
Flour enough to make it quite stiff, and
one cup of raisins, floured. Bake slowly
and ice when cool.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
