Vol. 34 SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1905. No. 4


CONTENTS.
The Power of Love....................................Ina	17
Mary A. Livermore.........................................	18
Uintah Stake.............................P. A. Merkley	18
Expressions Made on the Side..........A. W. C.	19
Memorial Meeting..........................................	19
Woodruff Stake...........................Kate Eppich	19
In Memoriam................................................22 &	23
R. S. Reports, Cassia, Alberta and Alpine
	Stakes....................................................23 &	24
Good Words.............Editor Woman’s Tribune	24
Should We Not Have a Woman’s Day............	14
EDITORIAL:—General	Conference Relief
	Society—The Theory of Organization—
	—Editorial Notes....................................	20
Truly a Mother in Israel..........................21, 22, &	23
POETRY:—The Grave of Paul Revere..L.D.A.	17
	Pictures......................Grace Ingles Frost	19


THE GRAVE OF PAUL REVERE.
Beside the hallowed spot I stand—
The grave of Paul Revere;
And mem'ries of that patriot grand,
Speak loud while musing here.

The famous tale our hist'ry tells,
Of how he rode away;
From house to house, then clanged the bells,
That sound o'er Boston Bay.

The daring ride of Paul Revere,
And what his tidings wrought;
A nation drops for him a tear—
They bless the freedom bought.

He rests, while millions laud his fame,
Here, 'neath the dark gray stone;
And stern new England, breathes his name,
With heroes, all her own.

These emblems, solemn thoughts inspire,
Of liberty, blood bought;
The cannon's roar, the musket's fire,
The vict'ry eager sought.

This stone ne'er holds his praises down,
Though he sleeps deep below.
And o'er the road of pebbles brow[-],
In fancy oft I go.

New England holds his sacred dust,
She gives her hero sleep;
A grateful nation holds in trust,
The land they died to keep,

Ye patriots of New England soil,
O, ye were patriots grand;
The sons of hardship and of toil,
Whose lives gave us our land.
LYDIA D. ALDER.
Boston, May, 1905.


[Column 1]
	THE POWER OF LOVE.
			BY INA.
	Goethe cried, “More light—more 
light!” Tolstoi, “More love—more love!”
The question has been asked, which is
the greatest desire? Both are noble, but
today the latter cry should be echoed
most strenuously. People seem to be
losing sight of the fact that love is the 
greatest power that governs the uni-
verse.
	Years ago it was considered sin for
woman to give her hand in marriage
unless the sincere love of her heart ac-
companied it. The result was a happy
life. If children were given to them,
they were considered gifts from the Most
High, and were welcomed and loved;
while in turn the children loved and re-
vered their parents. Today, when a girl
thinks of marriage, as a rule, the question

[Column 2]
of position is of far more importance than
that of love.
	Not only is this a fault of woman, man
also thinks of position in choosing a life
partner. He crushes love from his heart
for some rich papa’s money; while she
spurns many a loyal, loving heart for 
a “gilded cage.” As in the case of those
who marry for love, the result is plainly
seen, being most apparent in the chil-
dren. If there are no children, one need
only look at the “divorce mill” to behold
the result of loveless marriage.
	It has been noticed and commented
upon, that of late there are so many
children who seem to possess very little 
affection. One instinctively thinks of the 
words of the Apostle Paul, who said that
there should come a time when some 
would “be lovers of their ownselves, with-
out natural affection, and disobedient to 
parents,” etc. And one feels, though the 
Apostle denounced such so emphatically,
that they are to be pitied, for it is not 
wholly their fault.
	Can a child possess a loving disposition
when no thought of love entered the
mind of the man and woman who gave it
a body?
	Mayhap it was given existence unwit-
tingly, and consequently received a very 
cold reception upon its advent, having for
a father one who despises children, and
for a mother one who cares so little con-
cerning its welfare that she refuses to 
nourish it at her breast, lest she spoil her
figure.
	Need one again ask why children are
without natural affection; why the old-
fashioned epithets, “my dear father and
mother,” are so seldom heard, while the
unloving substitutes—“the old woman”
and “the governor” are so frequently
used.
	Women are beginning to feel, even
among our own people, that children are 
a burden which they are disinclined to
assume, or that it is not fashionable to
have them. Society women claim that
children make them nervous. One often
hears such expressions as the following:
“There are too many children in the
world already,” and “Children are such
little nuisances. One cannot fulfil the 
duty which one owes to society if one
has several cross babies at home who re-
quire attention,
	It is quite evident that such persons
forget that they also owe a duty to their
heavenly Father. Has God given a later
command regarding children than the
one which He gave to our first parents?
No. This commandment is as binding 
today as it was in times past. And if 
one loves the Lord with all his soul,
heart and mind, he will keep His com-
mandments. Still it is hard to say which
is the greater sin, to refuse to give spirits
tabernacles of flesh, or to bring children
here under the conditions that some chil-
dren are brought.
	Ah, mothers, mothers! see to it that 
your children are born willingly, and in
the full power of love.
	When you find that a little stranger is

[Column 3]
to enter your home prepare yourselves
in every way possible to influence your
child for good before its birth as well as
to train it in the way of the Lord after.
	First. Let there be no feelings of re-
sentment or misunderstanding between 
yourself and the one you call your hus-
band. Seek all things of an elevating
nature—music, literature and art.*
	Books of a soothing nature and those 
of a religious character, as well as bio-
graphies of the great and good people of
earth, should be read; but the sensa-
tional novel should be avoided as if it 
were a pest.
	When bowing in supplication, thank
God for conferring maternity upon you,
and ask Him to help you to live in a 
manner that shall be the means of giv-
ing to the spirit which he is about to 
consign to your keeping, not only a per-
fect body, but a perfect disposition.
	That a child’s disposition is greatly in-
fluenced by a woman’s personal thoughts
and feelings many mothers have proven.
It is, of course, much easier for a woman
who is richly endowed with this world’s
goods to prepare herself for motherhood,
as presented in this article, than for one
who is forced to do the work of the house
and care for the children. Take heart,
you who are over-burdened. Through
prayer all things can be accomplished. 
Remember—

“Its easy enough to be pleasant,
When life flows by like a song,
But the woman worth while is the one who will
	smile
When everything goes wrong.
For the test of the heart is trouble,
And it always comes with years,
The smile that is worth the praise of earth,
Is the smile that shines through tears.”

	After baby comes, do not be afraid to
show your love for the little creature.
Never mind if some people do say that it
is not right to kiss them. True, to kiss
a child upon the mouth is not wise;
but kiss its hands, its brow, and cheeks.
Not long since a baby, whose mother did 
not believe in kissing it, was kissed by 
one who does believe in so doing. It
became frightened upon being caressed,
and cried; but the party who caused the 
disturbance quieted it, then kissed it
many, many times, and finally its sweet
face dimpled with smiles.
	Another thing that parents do which 
does not inspire love in their children for 
themselves or God, is that they raise 
them with the idea of resisting evil on ac-
count of a fear of punishment. 
	It is true that parents are sometimes
compelled to resort to corporal punish-
ment, but were mothers and fathers to 
inspire their children with the idea of re-
sisting evil because by so doing they
would gain their love and also the love

	*Michael Angelo’s mother went every day, be-
fore he was born, to one of Italy’s great cathe-
drals, where hung many paintings by the masters.
	The pictures which impres[-]ed Michael An-
gelo’s mother most were—“The Annunciation,”
“Mary’s Visit to Elizabeth,” and “The Babe in 
the Manger.” Michael was most fond of and ex-
celled when painting religious subjects.


and approbation of their heavenly Fath-
er, they would be able to "spare the
rod;" and also inculcate a greater spirit
of love in the child's heart.
	Children should be taught to love God
from the time they know what like and
dislike mean, to love virtue for its own
sake and not because they fear either
their heavenly Father or their earthly
parents.
	Is it not better to keep God's com-
mandments because of love for Him than
to keep them because we fear Him?
	God is a God of love, not hate. His is
the spirit of meekness, gentleness, long-
suffering, faith and love.
	This, then, is the spirit that should be
inculcated in our children, or we shall
never come to the perfection that Christ
spoke of—"loving our neighbor as our-
selves." Also "loving our enemies and
praying for those who despitefully use
us."
	His, our Elder Brother's, life was an
example of the divine love of the Fath-
er, who so loved the world that He gave
His well-beloved Son to be a sacrifice for
sin, that we might obtain eternal life.
	Let us teach the youth of Zion, not
only to "fear God and keep his com-
mandments," but to love Him and keep
them; teaching them to look to the Most
High as their Father in very deed—one
to whom they can carry all their trouble
and He will love and help them; all sin,
and He will listen; and if they will truly
repent, will forgive and help them to trav-
el the "straight and narrow way."
	A father to be feared when insulted!
Yes. But rather to be loved. In raising
our children thus, we shall increase, not
destroy, that great power which should
fill every human heart for all humanity,
as well as for God, and one's own house-
hold; and thereby build up a universal
brotherhood between the sons and daugh-
ters of God.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MARY A. LIVERMORE.
			(Concluded.)
	About this time she was invited to go
as governess to a family on a plantation
in Virginia; and she says, “I determined
to go and battle with myself alone and if
I could not conquer the doubts and fears
that overshadowed my life, I would like
the camel, struggle mutely with the
heaviest load, and, like the wolf die in
silence.”
	Her father disapproved of her going
and said, “Do you know that you are run-
ning away from home like a boy?” But
she went and stayed three years, there
were on the estate between four and five
hundred slaves, she came home to the
North a radical Abolitionist.
	The next three years she taught a
school of her own in Duxbury, Mass., it
was in reality the high school of the
town; meantime she was doing temper-
ance work in various ways, and besides
writing juvenile articles on the editorial
staff of a temperance paper, she organi-
zed a Cold Water Army of 1500 boys and
girls.
	While in Duxbury she strayed into
a Universalist Church and was at once
interested in the sermon, and was led
ultimately through this young minister’s
teachings to become a Universalist.

[Column 2]
	 When she went home for vacation she
told her old pastor and he said, “You will
be marrying this young minister one of
these days and bring down upon yourself
the ostracism of your friends.”
	In 1845 she married the very man, the
Rev. Daniel Parker Livermore, she says,
“I was surprised at the fury of the storm
that burst upon me, friends forsook me,
acquaintances ostracized me, I was dis-
approved for the church and my father
was for a time inconsolable. My mother
alone congratulated me on my marriage.
The tastes, habits and aims of the young
couple were similar and Mrs. Livermore
drifted into literary work. She wrote
hymns and songs and stories, sketches
and poems for The Galaxy, Ladies Re-
pository, New York Tribune and National
Era, and two prize stories, one for a
church publishing house which had a
large circulation was republished in Eng-
land and was translated into several lan-
guages, it elucidated a phase of religious
belief and was entitled “A Mental Trans-
formation.”
	It is impossible to tell in one short
sketch  of this great woman’s life the
work she has done along many lines,
temperance, anti-slavery, woman’s rights
and in benevolent and philanthopic
movements.
	In 1857, the Livermores joined a colony
going out to Kansas, where they had a
taste of frontier life, but finally decided
to settle in Chicago, Mr. Livermore be-
came editor and proprietor of a weekly
paper and Mrs. Livermore was associate
editor. For the next twelve years her
labors were Herculean. She wrote for
every department of the paper, and in her
husband’s absence from home she had the
entire establishment, paper, printing office
and publishing house; continued writing
for Eastern periodicals and for the Home
for the Friendless and assisted in the es-
tablishment of a Home for aged women
and a Hospital for women and children
and was actively identified with the city
charity. She was at this time her own
housekeeper directing servants, supervis-
ing the education and training of her
children and exercising a large hospitality.
	In 1860 at the first nomination of Abra-
ham Lincoln in the Chicago Wigwam,
she was the only woman reporter assign-
ed a place among more than a hundred
men reporters.
	“The great uprising among men at the
opening of the civil war, in 1861, was
paralleled by a similar uprising among
women, and in a few months there were
hundreds of women’s organizations form-
ed throughout the North, for the relief of
sick and wounded soldiers and the care
of the soldiers’ families. Mrs. Livermore
became the head and heart of a large
part of this work.
	“Out of the chaos of benevolent efforts
evolved by the times, the United States
Sanitary Commission was born. Mrs.
Livermore, with her friend, Mrs. Jane C.
Hoge, had been identified with relief
work for the soldiers from the beginning,
and at the instance of Rev. Dr. Henry
W. Bellows, President of the Commission,
they were elected associate members of
the United States Sanitary Commission
with their headquarters in Chicago, and
the two friends worked together till the
end of the war. Mrs. Livermore resigned
all positions save that on her husband’s
paper, secured a governess for her chil-

[Column 3]
dren, and subordinated all demands upon
her time to those of the Commission.
She organized Soldiers’ Aid Societies;
delivered public addresses to stimulate
supplies and donations of money in the
principal towns and cities of the North-
west; wrote letters by hundreds, person-
ally and by amanuenses, and answered
all that she received; wrote the circulars,
bulletins and monthly reports of the
Commission; made trips to the front with
sanitary stores, and gave her personal at-
tention to their distribution; brought back
large numbers of invalid soldiers, and ac-
companied them, in person, or by proxy,
to their homes; assisted to plan, originate
and conduct colossal Sanitary Fairs, and
wrote a history of them at their close; de-
tailed women nurses for the hospitals, by
order of Secretary Stanton, and accomp-
anied them to their posts. The story of
women’s work during the war has never
been told, and can never be understood
save by those connected with it. It is
hard for the younger generation to realize
the vast amount that Mrs. Livermore ac-
complished by her immense abilities and
indomitable power to work. The old sol-
diers adored her, and she was flooded
with testimonials and souvenirs from
them, which she valued highly. She
published her reminiscences of those cru-
cial days in a large volume, of thrilling
and graphic interest, entitled, “My Story
of the War” (Hartford, Conn., 1888),
which reached a sale of between fifty
thousand and sixty thousand copies.”

			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of 36th Relief Society Confer-
ence of Uintah Stake of Zion held at Jen-
sen Ward Aug. 24, 1905. President Sarah
M. Colton presiding, Pres. Colton in her
opening remarks said the reason we
are holding conference in the different
wards is to get more acquainted with our
sisters and to give those that are not able
to travel a chance to attend conference,
she reported the Stake in a fair way to
progress.
	Recitation Sister Zina Dudley, Jensen
Ward, song Sister Eden Powell, Naples,
Reports from presidents Vernal and
Naples Wards, Lecture Sister Kate Cal-
der, Vernal, report in writing from Mt.
Dell as it was too far for them to attend.
Essay written by Zola S. Calwell, Mt.
Dell and read by the sec’y Phebe A.
Merkley.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock
Singing, Now let us rejoice, Benediction,
Sister Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon Session: Pres. Sarah M.
Colton presiding, singing and prayer and
other usual exercises.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett was pleased to
meet with the sisters once more.
	Sister Abigail Oakes read a lecture from
the EXPONENT then commented upon it.
	Pres. Colton said we had, had a great
deal of good advice if we will only live
up to it, advised the mothers to do all
that was possible against the use of bad
language.
	Next Conference to be held at Mt. Dell
closed with singing, benediction.
	Sisters A. K. Bartlett, Abbie Goodrich,
Minnie Davis were chosen as assistants
in the Uintah Stake Relief Society at the
last quarterly conference of the Stake.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


PICTURES.
	BY GRACE INGLES FROST.
TWILIGHT, UTAH.
Shadows are slowly creeping,
O'er valley and mountain height;
And flowers that bloom when the day is done-
Night lilies, yellow and white, 
Nod their fair heads in the gathering gloom, 
And perfume the air with their fragrant breath, 
To welcome a silvery moon.

		NIGHT. (OREGON.)

Mountains! the grandest that God ever made!
Shrouded in snow and with moon-light bathed, 
Millions stars, set in azure sky, 
Looking down from their home so high;
Lowing of cattle astray on the hills,
The solemn tolling of convent bells,
Forests of stately old fir tree,
A river winding its way to the sea,
A distant city's glimmering light,
Reigning o'er all,-a queen-the Night.


EXPRESSIONS MADE ON THE SIDE.
	"It isn't the big things, its the pin
pricks that hurt," a neighbor said to me
one day referring to a small slight she
fancied she had received, and there's 
some philosophy in the small quotation
after all. If people would only try to
guard against offering the little hateful re-
marks that are not exactly meant to
hurt but wound the feelings nevertheless,
surely all would be better.
Some people pride themselves on being 
extremely frank and telling just what they
think, and they call this frankness a vir-
tue, but frequently these plain spoken
people wound the feelings of their friends
most unnecessarily. Is it always wise to
speak one's thoughts, even if they are the
truth. If you meet a friend in an unbe-
coming gown or hat, is it a kindness to
tell her of it? If she has a careworn,
troubled look, does it help her to say,
"My, how bad you look today!" Does
 it profit any one to pick out the faults and
failings of his neighbor and tell him of 
them? Far better pass them by unnoticed
unless in some kind way good may be ac-
complished, by quietly speaking of them.
Frankness, like other qualities, may be
misused.
	"I always was against the Relief Soci-
ety, but now they are going to do some-
thing in mother's work, I think there may
be some good in it."
	Fancy the feelings of a a regular Re-
lief Society worker who knew all the his-
tory of that great organization, when at an 
evening party she heard a young woman,
born and raised in Utah, make that re-
mark! She would have been too angry to
remain in the room only she felt, that
such a remark was made by one wholly
ignorant of what she was trying to talk
about, and out of respect for her hostess
did not even resent it, but she wondered
if there were many young women in our 
midst who felt like that, and she herself
thought of that noble band of women
working always for the betterment and re-
lief of others without thought of self. She
thought of the women sitting up night
after night with the sick; of the women
going into the homes where death had
come and performing the last necessary
labor before the burial; of the women taking
baskets laden with good and necessary
things into the homes where want had
come; oh, if such thoughtless speakers 
would only pause and think of the great


and good labors of the Relief Society
workers they would see that true moth-
ers' work had always been uppermost in
their thoughts, and their deeds of kind-
ness and of love were as numerous and 
uncountable as the sands on the seashore. 
						A. W. C.


MEMORIAL MEETING.
BEAVER RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The two branches of the Relief Society
of Beaver City met conjointly Monday
afternoon, May 28th, in honor of the
memory of Sister M. Isabella Horne,
who died in Salt Lake City on the 25th
inst.
	There were present Sister P. T. Farns-
worth, from Salt Lake, and Sister Ida
Hunt Udall, of St. John’s, Arizona.
	Sister M. L. Shepherd, president of the
Beaver Stake, opened the meeting with a
few remarks befitting the occasion.
	Sister Farnsworth was the principal
speaker, and after speaking at some
length on the beautiful life and sterling
worth of our departed sister, referred to
the special mission to which she had been
called by President Brigham Young,
viz., the awakening of the sisters to a
fuller sense of their duties, both as wives
and mothers. She made special mention
of the desire of President B. W. Smith to
have the Relief Society everywhere, dili-
gent in storing grain and several minor
details in connection with Relief Society
work.
	Sister Udall occupied a short time.
She explained that in Arizona where she
resides, the people are very scattered and
the sisters are not able to meet often and
consequently they could not accomplish
as much as in the more thickly settled
parts.
	Sister Maeser read the biography of
Sister Horne, Mrs. P. Farnsworth report-
ed the Frisco branch of the Relief Society.
She said they had only held two meet-
ings since the society was organized there
and that the sisters had not accomplished
much as yet.
	Among the other speakers were: Sis-
ter Johnson of Adamsville; Sister Good-
win, president of the west ward, and Sis-
ter Bickley, president of the east ward;
Relief Soeiety, Stake Counselor M. A.
White; Harriet Fotheringham, a niece of
Sister M. I. Horne; Sister Levi, Sister
Annie Frazer, Sister Robinson, Sister
Reese of Beaver, and Sister Pierce of
Adamsville.
	All the sisters spoke with much feeling.
Many of them were acquainted with Sis-
ter Horne, and their remarks were rem-
iniscent of her well-spent life.
	Our meeting will long be remembered
by all who were present.
	The congregation sang, "We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet."
	Benediction by Sister Frances Jones.
				M.W. FRAZER, Sec.


Mme. Sarah Bernhardt's name has
been proposed by the minister of public
instruction and fine arts of France for the
Cross of Knight of the Legion of Honor.
The grand chancery of the order, with
which the final decision rests, is now
considering the list of nominations.


WOODRUFF STAKE.
	Minutes of the Woodruff Stake Relief
Society Conference held at Lyman, June
30th, 1905. Present of the General Board
Sisters Elizabeth J. Stevenson and Susan
Grant with stake President S. Tyson and
counselor Hannah Telford and secretary
Katie Eppich.
	After the opening exercises stake Pres-
ident Tyson made some remarks. Re-
ports were called from different wards;
thirteen were given, all were in good run-
ning order. 
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson spoke of
family prayers in the home and the great
privileges and blessings we enjoy by liv-
ing up to our duties; in training our chil-
dren and being ministering angels to the
cast down and those who are in trouble.
Urged the Presidents and their helps to
love one another and be united in their
efforts. Spoke of the evil of fault finding.
	Sister Susan Grant’s remarks were very
encouraging and elevating. She exhort-
ed the sisters to seek the Lord in prosp-
erity as well as adversity and live near
unto him. Delivered a message of love
from our aged President, Bathsheba. W.
Smith and General Secretary E. B. Wells,
encouraged the Mother’s work and re-
ferred to the good derived therefrom and
of the good we do our offspring in study-
ing the same.
	Stake Counselor Hannah Telford spoke
of her experience in attending the duties
assigned her. Brother George here made
some grand remarks of comfort and en-
couragement to the sisters.
	President Tyson felt that the spirit of
the Lord was with us; spoke of early
days and her experience; urged the sisters
to be patient. Closed by singing and
benediction. 
	Afternoon session, President S. Tyson
presiding. After the usual exercises Sis-
ter Susan Grant of the General Board
spoke to the young sisters and encouraged
them to join the Relief Society and learn
all they could in regard to becoming good
wives and mothers; said there was every-
thing to inspire us on to good works and
living our religion, spoke at length on the
Word of Wisdom and the blessings re-
ceived in living up to it, and of culti-
vating the gift of faith. Felt thankful
for her experience in the Church.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson urged upon the
mothers to attend Relief Society and get
intelligence and to care for the needy;
keep ourselves pure that the spirit of the
Lord might dwell among us, and spoke
of the condition of those who do not keep
the commandments of the Lord and of
the blessings we should receive in living
up to our privileges; of the power of faith
in the Lord; urged the parents to have
their children attend the local organiza-
tions and encouraged the Mothers’ work.
Bishop S. Brough endorsed the remarks
of previous speakers, encouraged parents
to win the confidence of their sons and
daughters; alluded to the grand mission
of motherhood. Sister E. J. Stevenson
said as she was a temple worker, she felt
her mission would not be complete with-
out speaking a word for the dead. Urged
the sisters to do the work for their dead
as fast as they could.
	President S. Tyson made a few clos-
ing remarks and felt that we had had a
grand time. Conference adjourned after
singing and benediction.
			KATIE EPPICH, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT
			
			Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

		Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
		Address all business communications to
							Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
								SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

		Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		SEPTEMBER, 1905


GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The General Semi-Annual Conference
of the Relief Society will be held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this city on
Thursday, Oct. 5, 1905. Meetings com-
mencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. as usual.
There will be another session of the Con-
ference held on Monday, Oct. 9 at 2 p.m.
in the same place.
	It is hoped there will be a representative
from every Stake organization of the
Society and a large attendance of the
members.
	The First Presidency of the Church,
Apostles, Patriarchs, Council of Seventy,
Bishops and other brethren, also the
sisters of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
are invited to attend the Conference.
	(Notice of Officers meeting will be given
later).
	The General Board of the Relief So-
ciety will give a reception to the Presi-
dents of Stakes and missions or their
representatives at the Bee Hive House,
Thursday evening, Oct. 5 from 7:30 to 11
o'clock. General Officers of the Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary Association are in-
vited to attend this reception.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
					General President.
				ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE,
			IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
							Counselors.


[Column 1]
THE THEORY OF ORGANIZATION.
	The spirit of organization has been
hovering around the earth ever since the
days of the Prophet Joseph Smith and
the restoration of the Gospel. One only
has to go to the Book of Doctrine and
Covenants, and read the revelation there
given at a very early date in Kirtland,
April 23, 1834 concerning the order to be
observed in temporal matters, as well as
spiritual, and strange to say these theories
concerning union and so forth have been
fermenting in the minds of people, and
peoples more and more; unions here and
unions there failures too in one way or
another generally, and nationalism and
internationalism taught and talked about,
federations of this and federations of that
and co-operation on large and small
scales in many countries. Then the
efforts made for peace and arbitration all
tend in the same direction towards uni-
versal feeling and brotherhood, and unit-
ing of interests, but how far off the world
is from the culmination of these spasmodic

[Column 2]
efforts one who looks below the surface
of things can easily see.
	Even among our own people the Lat-
ter-day Saints who believe implicitly in
co-operation and the United Order as
given by revelation in the early days of
the Church, are far removed from the
actual practice except in a very small
way, and yet in theory they have the
very best ideas in the world.
	A number of books have been written
on these subjects and scores of magazine
articles, but the one book that seemed
most widely read at the time of its publi-
cation and caused the greatest awaken-
ing on the subject was Edward Bellamy’s.
“Looking Backward.” It set forth a sort
of impracticable “fad,” that people talked
of for some years, and which we never
hear spoken of now; but the revelations
of Joseph Smith the Prophet of the last
days, are perfect in theory, though even
the people of the Church who should be
most interested in trying to live up to the
higher law, or to approach a condition
tending towards it console themselves by
saying, “People are not good enough
yet,” and that is undoubtedly true, but
that is not an excuse that should hinder
those who believe in the great power of
love to all mankind from making a su-
preme effort towards living up to the
Savior’s injunction, “Love your neighbor
as yourself,” or from practising the Gold-
en rule “To do to others as you would
they should do unto you.”
	These are given us for all time and
times, and are every day mottoes for our
life conduct.
	A book recently written and published
on the matter of union, etc., is by Ray-
mond L. Bridgeman and entitled “World
Organization,” the ideas are said by re-
viewers to be as old as the New Tes-
tament. The book generalizes on the
idea of the unification of the nations of
the world in one legislative, judicial and
executive body. The author maintains
that “the formal endorsement of the
principle of world legislation has been
practically recognized by the organization
of the International Postal Union, the
establishment of a common prime merid-
ian, sanitary conferences, the Red Cross
Society and various other world-wide leg-
islation.” Mr. Bridgeman points out “the
urgent demand and possibility of world
legislature” and “lays down some broad
principles which will be essentially de-
clared in the world constitution and bill
of rights.”
	That, “the world moves” along many
lines of activity and of thought is very ap-
parent to those who are watching the
signs of the times. And in this connection
one vividly recalls the prophetic words of
Tennyson.
“Till the war drums throb’d no longer and the
	battle-flags are furled.
In the parliament of man, the federation of the
	world.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Daughters of the Revolution held
the regular meeting Tuesday, May 16 in
the EXPONENT Office, Templeton Build-
ing: in the absence of the Regent and
Vice Regents, Mrs. Isabel M. W. Sears
by special request presided. After the
transaction of some business, an excellent
paper on Gen. Ethan Allen was given


by Mrs. Diana F. Rich, after comments
by the members and some regrets ex-
pressed that the paper on Gen. Mercer
was not ready, the society adjourned for
the summer vacation.
	On June 10, the annual meeting for the
election of officers for the ensuing year
was held and after interesting reports of
the year’s work from all of the retiring
officers, the annual election was held and
resulted in the election of Mrs. Mary A.
H. Cannon, Regent; Mrs. Ella W. Hyde
and Miss Catherine Wells, Vice Regents;
Mrs. Clarissa Y. Spencer, Secretary; Mrs.
Emily H. C. Willey, Cor. Sec’y; Mrs.
Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Ass’t Sec’y; Mrs.
Sarah F. Smith, Treasurer; Mrs. Maria
Y. Dougall, Registrar; Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Historian; Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, Chap-
lain. The Regent expressed her desire
to do all in her power to promote the
spirit of patriotism and make the year’s
work successful.
	Saturday, Sept. 16 at 3 p. m. the D. R.
Society held its first meeting after the
vacation, Regent Mrs. Mary A. H. Can-
non presiding. After a brief address in
which she expressed her appreciation of
the honor conferred and her desire to do
her utmost to increase the membership
and give satisfaction in the position to
which she had been elected, the minutes
of the May meeting were read and ap-
proved and as the Treasurer who had been
chosen could not accept the position, Mrs.
Mary E. R. Webber was elected by unan-
imous vote. A very excellent and interest-
ing paper was given by Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth on the life and military ca-
reer of Gen. Stark- quite a number of
comments were made, Mrs. B. W. Smith
stated a member of the Smith family
Mrs. Zilpha Stark Smith was a grand-
daughter of Gen. Stark. The other paper
on Dr. Joseph Warren could not be given,
Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatic being absent in
Mexico. Society adjourned until Oct. 16
same hour and place.


TRULY A MOTHER IN ISRAEL.
MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
	It is always painful to record the death
of those we love, and especially those
whose lives have been waymarks for
others to follow; and whose associations
have been so closely mingled and inter-
twined with those they have left behind
them through many long years; all these
sentiments make the feeling of sadness
more profound, and it is the more diffi-
cult to write what the heart would dic-
tate.
	Of the honored veteran women of the
Church it has fallen to the lot of the
writer not only to write biographies of
them while living, but to prepare obitu-
ary notices for a very large number. We
recall a score and more of these noted
women who knew the prophet Joseph
Smith, and who were counted among
those greater women of the early days of
the Church; but only a very few remain
with us now.
	Sister M. Isabella Horne was one of
the early converts to the faith of the Lat-
ter-day Saints, and it was her good for-
tune to entertain the Prophet in her own
home in Canada, in the autumn of 1836;
the Prophet Joseph Smith was accom-


[Column 1]
panied on that journey by Sidney Rigdon
and Thomas B. Marsh, and she was so
overjoyed at that time that she said to
herself, “O Lord, I thank thee for grant-
ing the desire of my girlish heart in per-
mitting me to associate with prophets and
apostles.” This religious expression
shows her devotional nature even in her
young life.
	The Prophet was also a guest in Broth-
er and Sister Horne’s home in Quincy,
Illinois in 1839, where they had remained
temporarily after being driven from their
home in Missouri, whither they went
from Canada in March, 1838; subse-
quently they settled in Nauvoo, where
they became quite prosperous; but like
many other Latter-day Saints they were
not privileged to remain there long; they
left in the dead of winter in February,
1846, with a family of small children, en-
during all sorts of hardships upon that
long and tedious journey to the Missouri
river, where the Saints camped for the
winter, and where in consequence of
hardships, privation and actual want,
many suffered and died. Brother Horne’s
family were sorely afflicted, but the Lord
in His tender mercy spared their lives,
and they were able to come in the first
company of Saints that left Winters
Quarters after the pioneers, traveling
with Apostle John Taylor’s company and
arriving in the valley among the foremost
of that famous company of pioneers, who
built the “Old Fort,” and plowed and
planted, etc., and who subsequently
fought the crickets, and whose names
have been recorded as heroes and hero-
ines to endure for all time.
	The subject of this sketch was born in
Rainham, Kent, England, Nov. 20, 1818,
her parents were Stephen and Mary Ann
Hales, in her childhood her father and
mother came to Canada and settled in
the town of York, now Toronto; so it
will be seen she commenced traveling
when only thirteen; it was there in Cana-
da she met Joseph Horne, to whom she
was married May 9, 1836; this union
proved a lasting one, and together they
have encountered the storms and battles
of a long and eventful life. On May 9,
1886, they celebrated their golden wed-
ding, and ten years after. May 9, 1896,
they also celebrated the sixtieth anniver-
sary of their marriage. Sister Horne has
been the mother of fifteen children, and
what is rather remarkable three pairs of
twins were among the number. Seven of
her children are living, eight having passed
to the other side, three of them were
married at the time of their decease, of
the others, her first children, were twins,
one died a babe, the other lived to be
three years old. Elizabeth, the wife of
Edward Webb the eldest daughter, left
four children. Julia, wife of Wm. Burton,
another daughter died after giving birth
to a little girl that lived eleven months;
and her youngest son John, who married
Sophronia Spencer, left a family of little
ones, three in number. Sister Horne had
at the time of her decease 102 grandchil-
dren, 70 great-grandchildren and 2 great-
great-grandchildren. Her good name will
be perpetuated to the latest generation,
for her noble works, her kindly deeds, her
brilliant example of heroism and upright-
ness, and devotion to the truth as re-
vealed in this last dispensation.
	As a mother and homemaker Sister
Horne has always stood in the front rank,

[Column 2]
her example in this regard has been
quoted throughout the Church, and it was
undoubtedly her well-known ability in the
management of her own household, that
caused President Brigham Young to call
her to stand at the head of the Retrench-
ment Associations when they were first
organized in 1869. She had previously
manifested also good executive ability in
taking charge of the Relief Society in the
14th ward, where she resided, and of
which she was President until called to
preside over the Relief Society of Salt
Lake Stake. She possessed not only
practical ability and excellent judgement,
but was also eminently spiritual, which
rare combination of gifts fitted her for a
leader among her sex. She manifested
great wisdom in dealing with affairs that
required unusual ability. Her integrity
to the truth was unquestioned, she was
one to lean upon at all times and in all
places, her great strength of mind and
force of character gave her influence
wherever she was called to act, and
added prestige to whatever position she
occupied, whether in the home or in any
public place or enterprise.
	The positions she filled were many and
varied, for whatever work was undertaken
by the women of Zion, Sister Horne was
always prominent and efficient. It can
truthfully be said of her, she was one of
the founders of the commonwealth one of
the first to secure a permanent home,
that was always open to hospitality, a
gathering place for the young people and
for the brethren and sisters, friends,
neighbors and acquaintances of Brother
and Sister Horne; and they were numer-
ous and included the best men and wom-
en in Zion. Brother Horne was a
staunch Latter-day Saint and a stalwart
among men. It can truly be said of them,
“Her husband was known in the gates
when he sat among the Elders of the
Lord.”
	Many seasons of festivity and genuine
pleasure will be recalled now by those
who participated in the enjoyment of
these social entertainments, at the Horne
home in the 14th ward, Salt Lake City.
	Sister Horne’s great knowledge of the
Bible and the Book of Mormon, as well
as other standard Church works, and her
own experiences in life, from the early
days of the Church, mingling with the
best of noble men and women, made her
exceedingly entertaining and instructive
in conversation, and caused her to be
sought after by old and young, who were
desirous of true knowledge and reliable
information.
	Sister Horne was a member of the
first Relief Society organized in Nauvoo
by the Prophet Joseph Smith (although
she was not present at the first meeting)
but became a member soon after. As
soon as the sisters could do so after
coming to the valley, Relief Society or-
ganizations were effected, and from that
period up to the time of her last illness,
Sister Horne has labored incessantly in
the Relief Society, not only as an officer
but a diligent, faithful worker. Sister
Horne was for several years a member
of the “People’s Party,” and was ever
and always an ardent advocate of wo-
man’s rights and of equal suffrage for men
and women. She was truly patriotic in
all that pertained to her country, and
in building up the territory; she had en-
dured the privations and hardships inci-

[Column 3]
dent to the settlement of these valleys,
and felt intensely the need of a place
where liberty and freedom of conscience
could be exercised under just and equit-
able laws; and she was always ready to
stand firm and steadfast to maintain the
sacred principles vouchsafed in the Con-
stitution of our glorious country; and
she rejoiced when Utah became a free
and sovereign state, electing its governor
from among its own citizens, and in
having equal suffrage restored to the wo-
men of Utah in the state constitution.
	Sister Horne was for many years vice-
president of the Deseret Silk Association
for Utah, and one of the charter mem-
bers of the Deseret Hospital for more
than twelve years, from the beginning to
the close of the institution was chairman
of the executive committee; her labors in
that institution were laborious, and re-
quired considerable precious time, but
her economy and wisdom were a great
help in the Hospital.
	Sister Horne was chosen to preside
over the Relief Society of the Salt Lake
stake December 22, 1877, and held that
position until the stake was divided in 
1904. At the organization of the General
Relief Society she was chosen treasurer,
and when the society was incorporated in
1892, was one of the charter members. She
served as treasurer of the society twenty-
one years.
	I think we can say, no woman in the
Church was more highly esteemed and
reverenced for good works and leadership
than Sister Horne, whose loss the sisters
feel most keenly. She presided over the
semi-monthly meetings in the Fourteenth
ward and Assembly Hall something like
35 years. The dear old sisters almost
worshiped her; they had grown so fond
of her, and she seemed a mother to them
all. Her wise counsel and her majestic
bearing made an indelible impression up-
on people, and she put her true woman’s
soul into all she said--and her sayings
will live after her and be repeated to the
Saints throughout all time.
	Mrs. Mary Isabella Horne passed
peacefully away from this life on Friday,
at 7 p.m., August 25, 1905, at the resi-
dence of her daughter, Mrs. Minnie H.
James, surrounded by a large number of
her own family and intimate friends.
	Sister Horne had been confined to her
bed eleven weeks previous to her demise,
and had at times suffered very great pain,
but at intervals was comparatively easy
and comfortable, and glad to see the sis-
ters who called; she had been ailing two
years, and her passing away was indeed
a happy release for her; but to those who
who loved her so tenderly there is the
great sorrow of being bereft of her com-
panionship, her wise counsel and the
faith that was like an anchor to all who
had been accustomed to lean upon her.
Many are the friends who will cherish
her memory, who will miss her day by
day, and long to see her beautiful face in
the places they had so often met in sweet
communion.
	“Day after day we think what she is doing
		In that bright world of air;
	Year after year, her tender steps pursuing.
		Behold her grown more fair.”
	As Sister Horne lay in her white cas-
ket in her beautiful robes, she looked fair
and angelic, and the expression was one
of complete repose, as though she would
say if she could speak, “I shall be satis-


fied when I awake in His likeness and
behold His face.”
	Sister Horne’s funeral was held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall on Tuesday,
August 29, at 2 p.m. The hall had been
draped in white, with green vines inter-
twined, and flowers and palms ornament-
ed the stands. The flowers sent as me-
mentoes of love were beautiful and in
great variety. The Relief Society, the
General Board, the old Salt Lake Stake
Board, of which she was for many years
president, and the adjacent stakes, each
sent handsome floral designs, and the
family the most exquisite that could be
obtained in dainty blossoms, and there
were many from friends and relatives be-
sides.
	The First Presidency were all present
and each said a few words, President Jo-
seph F. Smith making the principal ad-
dress. Other speakers were Presidents
Frank Y. Taylor of Granite Stake and
Joseph E. Taylor of the old Salt Lake
Stake, President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sister Emmeline B. Wells. The
music was furnished by the Temple choir
and Elder Geo. D. Pyper sang a solo, “The
Resurrection Day.” The opening hymn
was “Who are these arrayed in white?”
etc, “Shall we meet beyond the river?”
and the last, “Farewell all earthly hon-
ors.”
	The General Board of the Relief Soci-
ety and the members of President
Horne’s Board of the Salt Lake Stake
occupied seats upon the stand. The ser-
vices were very impressive and consoling,
the remarks were all in praise of the
many virtues and noble deeds of the de-
parted mother in Israel, who for so many
years had labored for Zion. Many touch-
ing reminisceces were given of her devo-
tion and self-sacrifices; and her grand and
sublime character was faithfully portrayed
in words of sympathy and appreciation.
	Apostle Hyrum Smith pronounced the
benediction. The pallbearers were her
grandsons Malin Horne, Joseph L. Horne,
Wilford Horne, LeRoy Clayton, Joseph
Tingey. Jr., and Henry James, Jr.
	A very long train of carriages filled
with mourners and dear friends fol-
lowed the remains of Sister Horne to her
last resting place beside her husband in
the Salt Lake cemetery, and President
Joseph F. Smith dedicated the grave. A
quartette sang “Nearer My God to Thee.”
A woman pioneer, brave and renowne’d,
	She ever bore an honored name;
With motherhood and many virtues crown’d
	To give her everlasting fame.
Mother in Israel, fearless for the right,
	A very stalwart in her place;
Endow’d with wisdom and with Gospel light,
	Intelligence shone in her face.
Her weary steps have reach’d the heav’nly shore,
	Where welcomes glad her soul rejoice
With her companions who have gone before
	She’ll sing again with heart and voice,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		ALICE MAY TYLER TANNER.
	Departed this life June 29, 1905, in Milford,
Beaver county, Utah. She was the daughter of
 the worthy and venerable patriarch, Daniel Tyler
and his beloved wife Ruth W., who departed this
life eight years ago.
	In the early sixties her parents were called to
Washington Co., Utah; to assist in colonizing the
Dixie country. Although a child the hardships of
those early days were indelibly impressed upon
her mind. In 1866 they were released from that

[Column 2]
mission and then moved to Beaver. At the early
age of fourteen she entered the Beaver Co-op Store
as a clerk, which position she held several years
until compelled to leave on account of ill health.
Being sorely afflicted with St. Vitus dance, her
parents decided to take her to the House of the
Lord. Through the ordinances received therein
she was fully restored to health. On April 7,
1878 she was married to Joseph W. Tanner. In
1883 they moved to Circleville, Piute county, but in
1887 returned to Beaver as Sister Alice realized
that her parents were becoming aged and enfeeb-
led and needed care, she cheerfully took it upon
herself to perform that duty. Her fidelity and de-
votion to them has been unwavering and almost
without a parallel.
	About the year 1889 she was appointed secretary
of the Beaver Ward Relief Society, which position
she held until March 1897 at which time she was
chosen secretary of the stake. Her ability and
faithfulness as a secretary is seldom equalled,
which was a constant source of just pride and sat-
isfaction to the Ward and Stake Boards, who rec-
ognized and appreciated her worth and the credit
reflected upon them through her ability and
promptness in performing the duties pertaining
to that office. In July, 1901, she was chosen pres-
ident of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Beaver ward,
which position she filled with profit and satisfaction
to the association, and credit and distinction
 to herself, until 1903, when the association was di-
vided. Her labors in the Y. L. M. I. A. and in
the Sunday School as a teacher, and her extra
home duties (having an infant only a few months
old necessitated her release from the position of
Stake secretary of the Relief Society. In 1904 she
was again called to perform the duties of the same
office, which she faithfully did until her demise.
She has been the agent of the Woman’s Exponent
since 1897, having succeeded her mother who had
been the agent in Beaver for that valuable period-
ical eves since its publication. Since her mother's
death in April. 1897, she has faithfully, devotedly
and tenderly cared for her father, who is nearly
89 years of age. She is the mother of eleven chil-
dren, one son and ten daughters Five daughters
survive her. Several times during her life she has
approached very near the gates of death, but
through her implicit faith in the power of the
Priesthood of God and the ordinance of the Lord’s
House her life has been spared.
	On March 25, 1905, she gave birth to a daughter
which lived only three days, after which for a
number of weeks she was in a very critical condi-
tion. Through faith and prayer and good medi-
cal aid, she appeared to be in a fair way to re-
covery, until consumption set in. A change of
climate was advised by her physician, so a visit
to relatives in Idaho was decided upon.
	Being very desirous of receiving the ordinance
of baptism for her health in the House
of the Lord, it was planned that they stop
off in Salt Lake City a day or two. On June 27,
her kind, devoted husband, who has spared no
means, or considered any sacrifice too great to
make for her comfort or recovery took her to the
Salt Lake Temple and she there received the cov-
eted ordinance. The extra exertion required to
make the trip in her weakened condition, com-
pletely exhausted her, so much so, that they de-
cided to return home; so in the evening of the same
day, they took the train homeward, and reached
Milford on the morning of the 28th. Being too
weak to continue the journey farther, they re-
mained there, hoping she would soon gain suffic-
ient strength to reach home, but on the morning of
the 29th at 1 o’clock she passed peacefully away.
The funeral services were held on Sunday, July
2, at 2 o’clock p. m., in the L. D, S. meeting
house in Beaver. The speakers all eulogized her
beautiful life, offered consolation to the bereft, ap-
preciated her worth in the community and admon-
ished all to follow her worthy example.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call home one of His most faithful daughters and
earnest workers in the cause of truth, leaving us
to mourn the loss of a dear sister and a humble,
diligent co-laborer in the Beaver Stake Relief So-
ciety and Board, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we, the members of the Boards of
the Beaver Ward and Stake Relief Society, ex-
tend our sincere sympathy and mourn with the
bereft husband, children and aged father. We ap-
preciate her faithful labors as a Ward and Stake
secretary, also as president of the Y. L. M. I, A.,
and teacher in the Sunday School. That she was
a faithful wife, a patient, kind and indulgent
mother, and a devoted daughter. That she was a
living example of a true Latter-day Saint.
That her sterling qualities, her fidelity to the

[Column 3]
truth, and her willingness and faithfulness to duty
made her most lovely and admirable to all her
friends.
	That if we emulate her worthy example and
noble life. we will assuredly meet her again in that
beautiful home where sin and death cannot enter.
May He who has said He will be a husband to
the widow, and a father to the fatherless, pour into
the wounded souls of the bereft ones in this their
dark hour of separation. the oil of healing.
	That we send a copy of these resolutions to the
bereaved family, one to the Woman’s Exponent,
and one to be put upon the Stake records.
	C. C. Shepherd, Mary A. White, H. E, Fothing-
ham. Alice G. White, Frances L. Jones—R. S.
Stake Board.

			IN MEMORIAM.
	Susan Mosely Sperry, who departed this life
July 12, ’05.
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father,
the Ruler of the Universe, who doeth all things
well, to remove from our midst our beloved sister
and late President and co worker in the Relief
Society of the Fourth Ward, in the Pioneer Stake
of Zion; Be it Resolved, that we extend to the
husband and family our sincere sympathy and
appreciation of our sister’s worth. In her death
we realize the loss of a faithful and energetic good
woman, who was ever ready to minister to the
sick and the needy, and at all times doing whatso-
ever she could to help the upbuilding of the
Church and Kingdom of God on the earth, and
therefore has earned the great reward which has
been promised to the faithful and entitles her to a
glorious resurrection.
	Sister Susan Mosely Sperry was born at Nau-
voo, Illinois, October 11, 1845. She, with her
widowed mother, four sisters and one brother,
came to Utah and settled in the Fourth Ward,
September, 1848. The brother was accidently
killed soon after their arrival here. Her sister,
Mary Mosely, was a former wife of Bishop Sperry,
and after her death, which occurred August 25,
1859, he married the late sister Susan. Her other
sisters are still living, and are Elizabeth Miller,
Ann Booth and Hannah Foot, and are residents
at Nephi. They, with others who came at the
same time, lived in wagons until they could pro-
vide homes for themselves which was no easy task
in those days Sister Sperry was indeed a pioneer
of the Fourth Ward, and lived continuously in the
Ward until her demise. Let us ever emulate her
good works and cherish her memory.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
sent, with our sympathies to the bereaved husband
and family and that the same be recorded on the
records of our Society, also that a copy be sent
to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
						MARY A. HADLEY,
						MARY A. WEILER,
						MAHALA JENKINS,
									Committee.

			IN MEMORIAM.
	In Loving Remembrance of Myra C. Daines.
	Died at Hyde Park, Utah, April 5th, 1905,
Myra C. the beloved wife of Joseph B. Daines and
youngest daughter of Suel and Elizabeth Z. Lamb.
Sister Myra was born at Hyde Park, April 19, 1871
and was a true and faithful Latter-day Saint.
The mother of seven children, six of them, five
sons and one daughter, with her husband, father,
mother, three brothers and five sisters, mourn the
departure of a loving and dutiful wife, mother,
daughter and sister. Sister Myra was a member
of the Primary from its organization in 1879, and
continued a member after her marriage which was
solemnized in the Logan Temple October 24th.,
1889, and worked as an aid until the winter of
1893, and, was also an active worker in the Y. L.
M. I. A.
	In the Relief Society she was an energetic
worker; was a teacher several years, and was a
faithful observer of the Word of Wisdom; had
never tasted tea or coffee and had performed much
Temple work. She was a great comfort to her
parents, an affectionate wife and mother, a true
neighbor, and is greatly missed in the family circle
and by those who had the pleasure of her ac-
quaintance. To her husband and parents we can
truly say: “Thou dost not weep, to weep alone.”
The broad bereavement seems to fall unheeded
and unfelt by none. She was Beloved, Beloved
by all.
		Remarkable Case of Healing.
	When sister Myra Daines was a young girl a
growth formed on her tongue which was thought


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
to be canker but continued to grow and troubled 
her for years, the doctors pronounced it cancer in-
curable, but by the knife.  She and her parents 
had great faith in the ordinances of the Gospel.
Myra fasted four days, her parents three, and the 
family and many of her neighbors one day, and
she went to the Logan Temple and was baptized 
seven times and was administered to and promised
health, and although that morning her tongue
was black and swollen so bad she could scarcely
be understood, she was instantly healed and was 
troubled no more. This was a great testimony to 
her and the family and they will never forget it,
and they have borne testimony many times that 
the gifts and blessings still remain in the Church.
					AMELIA KIRBY.
	(By request of the parents.)
		IN MENORIAM.
	It is with the deepest regret that we are called
to record the death of a beloved sister, who de-
parted this life August 9, 1905, at her home in Far
West. Sister Eliza C. Larkins the beloved wife of
Wm. J, Larkins, she was born at War Hill, Surry
Co. N. C. June 26, 1837 and on June the 10, 1869, 
she was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, and in July emigrated to 
Utah, coming direct to Weber Co., where she has
since been a faithful worker in the church, she
leaves a devoted husband and three children to 
mourn her loss, the loss of a loving mother and 
wife. In April 28, 1881, she was chosen and set 
apart to act as second counselor to president Mary 
Heggsted when our society was first organized in 
Farr West.  Where she labored faithful until 
November 3, 1892, when our President moved
away and our society had to be reorganized, she
felt she was not able to labor longer in that posi-
tion, she has always been a faithful worker and 
member in the society, and has borne numerous
testimonies to the work of God; she was a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and loved by all who knew her.
	We the officers and me[-]bers of the society feel
we have lost a dear friend and co-laborer, where-
as we sympathize with the bereaved husband and
children, and cherish her memory and strive to em-
ulate her noble character.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be entered in
the Relief Society records, a copy be sent to the 
bereaved husband, and one printed in the Wo-
MAN'S EXPONENT.
				MILLIE J. SUMMERS, Sec,
	R. S. REPORTS. 
		CASSIA STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the
Cassia Stake convened at Oakley 10 a.m.
June 23, 1905, President Louisa Haight
presiding. Present were her counselors, 
Lavina Bates and Maud A. Thomas also
presidents of the Society of the various
Wards. Of the Stake Presidency, presi-
dent Wm. T. Jack and counselor Wm. 
T. Harper also visiting sisters from Salt
Lake City Counselor Ida Smoot Dusen-
bury and Phebe Y. Beatie of the Gen-
eral Board.
	Meeting opened with the usual exer-
cises. Verbal reports were given by pres-
idents Ida I. Brim of Albion, Fannie L.
Harper, Oakley 1st Ward, Jane Critch-
field, Oakley 3rd Ward, Jane Durfee, Al-
mo, Charlotte Nelson, Oakley 2nd Ward
Harriet Whitby, Marion, counselor Abi-
gail Beecher of Elba.  Reports showed 
there were many members working dili-
gently in visiting the sick, and assisting
the poor and needy, and in erecting build-
ings where the members can meet con-
veniently and comfortably. The Grouse
Creek Society was reported by letter.
	Sister Clarinda Beecher, a stake mis-
sionary, gave a good report of the 
branches on the east side of the moun-
tain. President Louisa Haight spoke of
the calls made of the sisters to help the
poor and needy and in various ways assist
in building up this great and grand work
that we are engaged in. Sister Phebe
Y. Beatie reported the minutes of the or-
ganization of the first Relief Society and 

[Column 2]
the instructions given by the Prophet Jos-
eph Smith to the sisters. "Let us be
charitable and be careful to do our duty
with our whole heart and soul. President
Wm. T. Jack felt that he could not com-
plain in regard to the condition of the
Stake Relief Society. Encouraged the 
sisters in their great labor; meeting closed 
with singing and prayer. 
	At 2 p.m. meeting opened by singing
and prayer. Counselor Ida Smoot Dus-
enbury spoke of the purification of trials. 
"We must have trials in life to appreci-
ate the blessings. Some people wish to
do great things in life and keep waiting
to do some heroic deed, but you know it
is the little acts of kindness that cause
one to become great. If you want any
one to love you, have them work for you.
If you want your children to love you
have them work. If children have to 
labor and battle with difficulties, they are
the ones that have "stick-to-it-ivness" 
and make great  marks in life. We should 
take great care with regard to our talk 
and the treatment of our children. We 
should not take any more liberties with
them than we let them take with us. If
we only knew how to evenly develope
the traits of our children what a great
blessing it would be. What is greater in
this world  than a pure, noble, God-fear-
ing wife and mother.  By our hard toil, 
labor and diligence we will assist others. 
And the road we are now traveling will
be made easier for those who may follow."
Spoke of the great influence of the
mother in the home. "The greatest
gifts we have we carry around in our
heart and minds."
	Counselor Maude A Thomas spoke of
the familiarity that is growing among our
boys and girls, and said let us as mothers
teach the young of the great evils that 
will follow this course. Counselor Lav-
ina Bates addressed the meeting and ex-
pressed her pleasure in having our sisters
visit with us.
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie advised moth-
ers to keep their daughters at home, and 
not send them to Salt Lake City to work
on account of the many evils that exist. 
Our young girls are honest and innocent, 
and are the more likely to be led astray
by the flattery and deceitfulness of evil
men, Spoke of the Nurse class.
	President Louisa Haight thanked the
sisters for their visit and felt pleased for
the privilege of having them. The Gen-
eral and Stake officers were presented
and unanimously sustained. Singing, 
benediction by Elder John Elison.
			LOTTIE BACH, Ass't. Sec.


[Column 1]
	ALBERTA STAKE.

	A very interesting Relief Society con-
ference was held in the Cardston Assem-
bly Hall, Aug. 19, 1905. Sisters Sophia
T. Nuttall and Hattie B. Harker, mis-
sionaries of the General Board, were in
attendance. President Mary L. Woolf
presiding. After the usual opening exer-
cises, reports were given by nine branch-
es, all in good coudition.
	Sister Nuttall felt the importance of 
the mission she was called to in visiting
us to understand our condition and
needs and report to the General Board:
spoke of the magnitude of the work be-
fore us. "The powers of evil are aiming
at our young people, and every effort

[Column 2]
should be put forth to save them. We
must live up to the light we have re-
ceived." Encourage young ladies in giv-
ing lectures on mother's work. Much
good can be done if we are in accord
with the spirit, and by perseverance we 
can overcome many difficulties. Our
blessings are innumerable. She felt that 
all is well with the sisters in this land.
Asked God to bless them.
	Sister Hattie B. Harker said we have
heard much on our spiritual welfare; our
temporal duties are also very great. En-
couraged the teachers in this good work;
spoke on the necessity of always having 
funds in the treasury; explained the ob-
ject of the bureau of employment in Salt
Lake City; spoke of the advantages of
purchasing land while it is cheap, and en-
couraged the sisters to attend their meet-
ings. "May each one have a desire to 
learn her duty thoroughly and then do
it." Said we are willing to answer any
questions pertaining te Relief work.
	Morning session closed by singing and
benediction.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p.m.
Stake President E. J. Wood and Coun-
selor and other brethren also the visiting
sisters and officers of the Relief Society,
with representatives from all the wards
excepting three, those being farthest
away were present. After opening ex-
ercises, reports were given by two sisters
from the,north, showing that they were
working along the line of Relief Society
work.
	Sister Elizabeth Hammer reported her
recent visit to the Relief Society branch-
es in the northern settlements; said there
was great need of our visiting them as
often as possible, as they were inexperi-
enced in the work, but found them will-
ling and desirous to do all they could, and
with the help of the Lord would try and
keep in line with the rest.
	Sister Rhoda Duce recited the last
hymn very touchingly.
	Sister Hattie B. Harker felt gratified
to see so many present. Mothers should
see that their children attend the differ-
ent auxiliary organizations and take their
parts; referred to Nephi as an example of
faith; we cannot be saved in ignorance;
the glory of God is intelligence; spoke
of the bondage of indebtedness––if we go
beyond our means we cannot have the
joy and freedom that should characterize
every Latter-day Saint; compared the
trials of our worthy pioneers with the
prosperity of today.
	Sister Nuttall was glad to see the 
brethren present. "We should sustain
the priesthood, it is the power of God.
The sphere of motherhood is grand and
beautiful, it is not limited; obedience to
the Gospel brings knowledge and intelli-
gence, through the spirit of inspiration
and revelation. The sisters will have to
take more responsibility and attain to 
higher things. Some of the young are
falling into the ways of the world--they
want to avoid the duties of life and have
an easy time in this world; it is necessary
for them to be taught habits of frugality
and industry. We should assist those
who are in need. If we live up to the
principles of our religion, death will be
sweet to us. Every Latter-day Saint
will be tried to the greatest extent; this
should not depress us, but should cause
us to exercise greater faith." She felt
the Saints in this land would be a power


for good. We must work hard to gain
eternal life.
	Counselor Rhoda C. Hinman said the
remarks of the sisters had brought many
things to her mind. She had been per-
sonally acquainted with the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith, and could testify he was a
prophet of God; she was also acquainted
with the members of the first Relief So-
ciety. "The magnitude of this work is
a testimony to me. We should encour-
age our girls to attend these meetings."
	Elder Thomas Duce said "the Relief
Society has a great and important part in
the Kingdom of God. We shall be judged
by our works." Was pleased to see rep-
resentatives from the northern settle-
ments, some of them have come one
hundred and thirty-five miles to attend
this conference-
	President Edward J. Wood spoke of
the great amount of good that can be
accomplished by mothers; hoped that
each one had heard something this day
that would apply to our needs, and
see to it that their sons and daughters
are preparing themselves to fill future
positions with honor. Our work does
not consist in doing good only to one's
own, but to all, as often as we can.
	Conference was adjourned for three 
months with singing and benedticion.
	M. L. WOOLF.


24 WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
[-]E ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit
your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.
TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minor,
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
	JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
	GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


ALPINE STAKE.
(Concluded.)
	Afternoon session. Meeting opened at
2 o'clock, President Standring presiding,
Opening exercises as usual, singing, pray-
er, minutes, etc.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams: "We
have met as a body of Relief Society
workers. If it could be possible to call
young women to be teachers in connec-
tion with older ones, they could take the
burden of the work and be obtaining ex-
perience which would be very useful.
There is abundant work for us to do,
many sick and aged need looking after,
and perhaps one sister might look after
several such poor persons." Felt that the
sisters here were all true, conscientious
mothers and desired to encourage them.
Warned them not to speak lightly but
teach the children the proper reverence
for sacred places and sacred things.
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs thought it
was a great privilege to see, and hear the
testimony of President B. W. Smith, for
she is the only one living who was at the
organization of this society.
	Solo, Sister Julia B. Grant.
	President B. W. Smith wanted the sis-
ters to know that this is the true Church.
The Prophet said one great thing was to
look after the morals of the people and
she believed in mothers taking care of
their girls and doing all they can to furth-
er the work of the Lord. Prayed the
Lord to bless Sister Standring and pre-
serve her many years to lead her sisters
and set an example of love and good
works.
	Sister Sina Chipman desired to profit
by the teachings we had today from our
beloved president. Emily Bullock bore
testimony to the goodness and worth of
Sister Smith and the good counsel she
used to give to the young people. M. A.
Webb knew that this was the true Church
of God, for it had been revealed to her.
	President Jos. H. Clark said one of the
speakers had urged the necessity of
keeping our girls at home, and he
thought the same caution should be used
in regard to our boys. If children go out
in the world to make more clothing or
more means and lose their souls what
will it profit them? He saw little boys
standing around at night smoking and
some profaning the name of the Lord.
The worst influences are around at night
waiting for our children. May the Lord
bless the sisters in their labors.
	President A. J. Evans said "the rebuke
of a friend is better than the kiss of an
enemy." The parents who call the fam-
ily together and pray for the servants of
God and the welfare of the Church, are
giving the children a testimony of this
work which is necessary for their guid-
ance. Referred to the law of fasting and
was afraid that many only kept part of
this commandment.
	President Standring made closing re-
marks; singing and benediction. Confer-
ence adjourned for three months.
	E. FEATHERSTONE, Sec.


[Column 1]
		GOOD WORDS.
	BY CLARA B. COLBY.
	M. ISABELLA HORNE.
	“Truth will prevail,” wrote Zina D. H.
Young; “Charity covers a multitude of
sins,” wrote Presendia L. H. Kimball; and
“Love thy neighbor,” wrote M. Isabella
Horne, in an autograph book which is a
much prized souvenir of a lecture trip
and a reception in Salt Lake. It was in
the autumn of 1888 and Mrs. Elizabeth
Lyle Saxon lecturing on “Social Purity”
and the editor of the Woman’s Tribune
telling the wonderful story of that first
great coming together of women of differ-
ent organizations and countries, had been
warmly received by the women of Utah
and one of the courtesies shown us was a
reception in the Amelia Palace: One of
the ladies present took an autograph al-
bum and secured the signatures of the
distinguished women present, wives and
daughters of the presidents and apostles
of the church and many of them holding
office in the church societies and scarcely
second in public esteem and in authority
to the male hierarchy. Most of the pio-
neers have now moved on, and Mrs.
Horne, who died recently in her 87th
year, was the last survivor of the three I
have quoted. She had joined the Mor-
mon church in 1836, endured the persecu-

[Column 2]
tions in Nauvoo; and had crossed the
plains in 1847, sharing the hardships of
Apostle Taylor’s party. By appointment
of Brigham Young she was president of
the Retrenchment Association, and had
held offices in the church societies since
1853. She had also been connected with
the Utah Silk Association, and with the
management of Deseret Hospital. Mrs.
Horne was strikingly handsome, with
bright dark eyes and kindly face, which
of itself bore testimony that in every re-
lation and duty of life she had obeyed
the Divine injunction which she took for
her motto. 
		EDITOR WOMAN’S TRIBUNE.
SHOULD WE NOT HAVE A WOMAN’S DAY?
	The state in which I reside has eight
holidays on which the postmaster and
other public officials have the right to
keep their doors closed. Some of them
are general for the whole United States;
Some are especial for our state only.
Why is it that not one of these is a mem-
orial of any woman? Several are the
birthdays of distinguished men.
	Now I wish for information. Has no
one of our forty-five states and five terri-
tories ever established a day in honor of
one of its great women or of some one
of the great women of the world?
	If this be the case, what do you think
of establishing a day for the whole United
States to be known as “Woman’s Day,”
on which schools, associations, and such
societies as may wish, shall celebrate
womanhood in general, or any great or
good woman they may decide to honor?
Is it not as appropriate to have a
“Woman’s Day” as a “Labor Day?”
	If this suggestion meets with approval I
should suggest for this purpose the 25th of
March, Annunciation Day. In England it
is called “Lady Day,” and is an import-
ant epoch, rents being always paid on
that day. Surely no day could be better
suited to this purpose than that on which
the curse of Eve became the blessing of
Mary and countless generations.
	Mary’s song has always seemed to be
the voice of all womankind rejoicing in
the removal of its ban, “Thenceforth all
generations have called us blessed.”
				JULIA S. TUTWILER.
	Woman’s Journal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

