VOL. 18.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1889.	No. 6.


CONTENTS.
	Love—Rhoda E. Foster.  Hephzibah—A story.
Maria Mitchell—Ex. Notes and News. Long
Island Party—Lizzie S. Wilcox.  Uncommon
Courage.
	Editorial:—Neither Defeat Or Victory. Edi-
torial Notes A Little Girls Letter—Delta. A
Voice From The Twentieth Ward. One of The
Old Fashioned Mothers. Half A Century. In
Memoriam. Woman Suffrage In Ogden. W. S.
A. Meeting.—Cornelia H. Clayton. Millard Co-
unty, W. S. A. The Suffrage Question.—S
R. S. Report. Y. L. Renunion.—Ann M. E. B
Evans. Cancer Cure.—Sarah Merrill.
	Poetry.—Pioneer Day. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh.
A. Strike.—Selected. When Suffrage Comes.—
Selected.


PIONEER SONG.

Hark, to the pilgrims joyful cry
	They see that rest is here
As down the Canyon’s road they hie
	To the welcome refuge near.

What sought they from afar?
	Not the gold, or silver mine
Not wealth, or fame, or the spoils of war,
	They sought for their faith a shrine.

They had left their childhoods’ home,
	To find on this arid sod.
A place where they may freely roam
	And safely worship God.

Footsore and weary they come
	With none to welcome or cheer
To seek mid those desert wilds a home
	Tho' the prospect looked but drear.

But, to conquer they had come
	Tho' not for glory or fame
Not to the beat of the warlike drum
	But in freedom’s cause they came.

They gazed in awe, and fear  
	On the vast expanse around
Then sang a hymn of sacred cheer
	That stamped it holy ground.

There were men with hoary hair 
	In that devoted band
Who were seeking refuge where
	No tyrant owned the land.

There were women of steadfast eye
	Led here by their love of truth,
There was manhood there, whose hopes sore
		high,
	And the buoyant step of youth,

The mountain peaks loomed high
	Above that sterile land
And the cloudless summer sky
	Looked down on that weary band.

But when the night cloud dark
	Shrouded the landscape o’er
Those exiles like the tired lark
	Nestled down by the Salt Lake’s shore.

At morn they consecrate the ground
	And bless the soil they trod
Then move with freedom’s step around
	The Zion of their God.
				M. A. Y. Greenhalgh.
July 24th, 1889.


[Column 1]
LOVE.

	Love what is it; I sometimes think we do
not know.  The Savior said: “Love the Lord
thy God, with all thy might, mind and

[Column 2]
strength.” What course shall we pursue to
do this.  One thing is to be prayerful, another
to “honor thy father and thy mother;” also a
great many other things.  Sometimes there
are requirements made of us which go dread-
fully against our natural inclinations.  But
the Lord teaches us that sacrifice brings forth
the blessings of heaven; and he has established
a code of laws, by which we are to be governed
in order to return back into his presence.  Just
as we make laws to govern each other in tem-
poral affairs, which we all know are highly
necessary to maintain peace and good order
in a community, and which tend to sustain
and develop each other’s rights.  Now we all
expect a home in the gseat hereafter, or should
do, but when we contemplate that, let us ask
ourselves—what kind of a home do we want?
Do we desire to mingle with those we love in
our eternal home?  Or can we afford to cast
ourselves out of the fold, in order to gratify
some selfish desire.  The Lord wants us to
have much faith, and I sometimes think we
imagine we have, and want others to think
the same, and are very indignant, if they ex-
press themselves in any different way.  The
Lord says: “Show me your faith without your
works, and I will show you my faith by my
works.” Now we love the Lord and desire to
return back into his presence, what is to be
done?
	Out of love for us God sent His Only Be-
gotten Son, to suffer, bleed and die, and he
teaches us that, “no greater love hath man,
than to lay down our his life for his brother.  Are
we willing to lay down our life for brother or
sister?” I fear not, I sometimes think we are
not always willing to even tell the truth when
it would frequently do them so much good;
and perhaps save them much sorrow, besides
frequently helping them to hold and main-
tain their honor.  A thing which I fear is
sometimes very carelessly dealt with; notwith-
standing, the amount of knowledge we all
have, that when our honor is once degraded, it
is much harder to establish than it was to tear
down.  The Lord wants us to love one another,
and in doing this we prove our love for him.
But we must also love ourselves, and in order
to do this, we do not have to be selfish, un-
grateful, or fail to appreciate the blessiugs we
daily receive from our heavenly father, or dis-
regard the accommodations and kindnesses we
receive from our brothers and sisters.  But I
think if we love ourselves properly, or with a
God-like love, we will take a God-like course.
One might say that is far beyond my reach;
but do not think so, the Lord never told a
people to do any thing which they could not
do.  For he has declared that “as thy day thy
strength shall be;” and who ever knew his
word to fail.
	There is a subject which weighs heavily
upon my mind, and that is the course which
some of our beautiful young girls take in mar-
riage.  Some say they marry for love.  Now
let me warn you to be sure you know what
love is; you may think it is no one’s business,
but beware how you cast your lot, for this life
is not too happy at best, but when we bring
sorrow and misery upon ourselves, by making
a heedless, unwise choice, and take an un-
worthy companion, because we think we love
him dearly; will the Lord be any more apt to
justify us in our choice?  Will he hold us
guiltless.  Besides placing ourselves on very
slippery ground, our posterity have to share

[Column 3]
it with us, so they should have some considera-
tion, more especially when we realize that they
are not here to demand their rights, and in a
matter too, that is apt to effect them in this
world and the next, as well as ourselves.  How
much better we wlll feel when called to
account for the deeds done in the body, if our
children can rise up and call us blessed.
	Now girls let me testify to you that matri-
mony is one of the most important steps that
one has to take in a life time, both for our-
selves and our children.  The Lord tells us if
we lack in wisdom let us ask of Him, “who
giveth liberally and upbraideth not.” So let
us be prayerful and inquire of the Lord, and
he has promised to answer our prayers.  But
we must try to be obedient to his laws and
commandments, and then all will be well, for
obedience is better than sacrifice.  But before
closing I wish to testify to you all that I know
we are engaged in a good work when we at-
tend to the requirements of the Gospel, and
I also know when we labor, sacrifice, or suffer
for the love of God, there is joy and peace
poured into our hearts from a heavenly
source.  So let us be earnest in our desire to
do right and try and perfect ourselves so we will
be worthy of the love of our Heavenly
Father. 			RHODA	E. FOSTER.


HEPHZIBAH.
	V.
	Childhood, how passing sweet its radiant hours;
	The loves and friendships of our early youth;
	Enchantment dwelt within its fairy bowers;
	Adorned with germs of purity and truth.

	Morning came, a lovely morn, and Hepsie
unpacked her little trunk and made ready for
the Sabbath for this was Saturday; after that
she wanted to take a walk, and as her mother
had told her to ask Mrs. G’s consent to every-
thing, she asked the lady’s permission. She
spent most of the day in the garden, and Mrs.
G. in addition to her domestic duties, assisted
the Rev. Erasmus in preparing his sermon.
Hephzibah was keen in her perceptions, and
she discovered on her first day at the parson-
age, that Mrs. G. wrote much of the sermon
herself. If she left “the study” for a minute
or two, to attend to domestic affairs, the Rev
Erasmus in dressing gown and slippers,
would open the door of his study, and in his
blandest tone, call “Deborah.”
	The next morning was the Sabbath, and in
a minister's house, especially in New England
there was always a peculiarly, subdued at-
mosphere on Sunday, Mrs. Grovesner had
considerable worry in fixing her husband off
to meeting in time, and she was too busy to
go herself as minister’s wives very often are;
and after all the sermon was left, over which
so much time had been spent. Mrs. G. found
it out when she went to dust her husband’s
study, and arrange his papers for this was part
of her work, after all he had gone, and she
hastily arrayed herself, as became the minis-
ter’s wife, in her very best silk dress and lace
bonnet and hurried up the street towards the
church; at the door she met the deacon, and
slipping the package into his hands she
hastened home again, that her husband's
dinner might be ready for him when he re-
turned:  Poor little Hepsie wondered as one
naturally would what the minister could do
without his wife. She wrote a letter to her


mother, that day according to promise; it was
her first letter, and she was very precise in
making it both neat and correct, and after
telling her mother how unhappy she was
to be so far from home, she told her as a
great secret, that  Mrs. Grovesner she was
sure wrote the sermons for her husband to
preach in the pulpit on Sundays; when the
little letter was finished, she signed her name
with a flourish of her pen underneath as she
had seen her brother do, and folded it neatly;
there were no envelopes in those days, and so
she sealed it with a pretty pink wafer, and
carried it to the post office herself, as though
it was a great treasure.
	Monday was another eventful day for the
child. The principal of the girls department
at the high school was apprised of Hepsie
Hathaway’s coming, and Mrs. Grovesner had
told Hepsie that Miss Elliott was “a most
amiable person.” Hepsie went through the
ordeal of questioning as to her age, residence,
studies and former teachers; and was finally
ushered into a large hall filled with girls, older
and larger than herself. It did not take her
long to get initiated into the ways of the school,
and she was so quick and diligent, that she
excelled in all her classes, and became a general
favorite. The girls depended upon her for
help in mathematics and composition, and she
was so fond of astronomy or the geography of
the heavens, that the young men quite admired
her, and looked upon her as superior to other
girls.
	Though Hepsie was very small of her age,
she was now constantly associated with older
girls, and was sought after by them as com-
panion and friend, and yet they were a very
different type from herself; full of fuu and
nonsense and fond of having a good time—
sometimes perpetrating practical jokes which
were very annoying and Hepsie’s unsophisti-
cated nature; they were mostly girls with “lots
of pin money;” while little Hepsie had none
to spend except as Mrs. Grovesner suggested,
therefore their little friend could not “chub”
with them in buying sweetmeats and dainties;
in fact she cared very little about that sort of
thing, and would rather ramble over the
beautiful hills, and along the pebbly streams,
and linger in the grand, old woods, among the
rocks and moss; listening to the sighing pines,
musing, soliloquizing and imagining the un-
rivaled future, than partake the most tempt-
ing meal they could offer her. The child had
strange presentiments concerning her desting,
which haunted her unmistakably, and which
she would fain have unraveled, if possible,
but as yet it was intangible only a myth.
The cultivated people with whom she was
being brought in daily contact at the minister’s
house, and her constant associations with Mrs.
G. herself, could not fail to develop her rapidly
she was such an impressionable, thoughtful
child. These conditions were good for Heph-
zibah, and modified her idea of life very much
though, child as she was, she saw much that
seemed little in accord with the minister’s
teachings from the pulpit on the Sabbath Day
and much also that her sensitive conscience
disapproved. How keen the perceptions of
children to judge right from wrong, is not
always remembered or recognized, one cannot
be too careful in the example set before
children. Hepsie saw much during her so-
journ at the minister’s home that was never
forgotten; the young, newly-fledged preachers
who “exchanged pulpits” occasionally with
Mr. G. were anxious to convert Hepsie and
wanted her to get a newehart. Poor thing!
she could not comprehend it, and one day she
told Mrs. Grovesner that it was quite a puzzle
to her about this “new heart,” and why did
she need it. Grandpa had thought her good
enough, and that she was tired of being told
she was a sinner, and so on. Mrs. G. asked

[Column 2]
the child how and when she had been so
worried on this subject, and she replied “when-
ever you leave the room for anything, the
moment I am alone with one of the young
ministers, I grow cold all over, because I know
he will inquire if I have had a change of
heart yet.” Mrs. Grovesner was troubled; her
eyes were opened, and from that day Hepsie
was never left alone with any strange minister.
	About this time, a few of the most popular
girls in the school entered into a sort of com-
pact together and they included Hepsie in the
number, they only wanted seven, and no more
were to be admitted. This society had
some restrictions, and a great many privileges
and school-girl like, they were full of en-
thusiasm. Marriage was the principle aim of
the Association, because one of the stipula-
tions was, that as soon as one of them married
she should be excused from the obligations
previously incumbent upon her, and Hepsie
fancied they would all leave her, unless they
should decide to remain single; but this was
not a part of the programme; they decided,
not only to marry, but that each one should
marry a man with a title of eminence, Rev.
Prof., D.D., M.D. or A.M. Poor little Hepsie
heard this and shuddered, she thought of the
Rev. Erasmus, his selfishness, and the many
petty foibles so apparent in his character, and
as she was devotedly attatched to the seven,
she felt bound in honor to speak out, “would
you love a man that was cross, and disagree-
able, and never satisfied, wait upon him, work
for him, plan for his pleasure, though he never
thought you were tired, or sick, or wanted
rest or peace; who always sat in the parlor 
when company came, and talked while his
wife cooked the supper and made
all ready for the comfort of his
distinguished guests as he calls them." All
this and much more came like a crash from
the little one, whom they had never dreamed
could assert herself like that. The girls were
amazed, and so was Hepsie, at her on cour-
age, she broke down then and began to cry as
children do when overwrought, as we all do
when the very fountains of our hearts are
stirred.
She felt like a culprit too, what right had she
to betray family secrets—she loved Mrs. G. for
tho' she had been strict yet she had been dili-
gent and true to her trust, and Hepsie only
knew what her perceptiosn told her. She was
quite vexed with herself for her freedom.
“Don’t cry” said sweet-tempered tender-hearted
Jane.
	“What do you know about love or things of
that kind, why your’e still in short dresses and
pantalettes. Your opinion indeed, fie child, my
brother will be a Rev. some day he’s at Yae
now such a fine fellow all the girls admire him
and any one might thank her lucky stars to
get him and his title”—this was Miss Fay, her
fsther was an Esquire and she was as haughty
as though he had been a Baron. It amounts
to almost the same thing a ’squire in a country
village is held in as high esteem almost as
titled aristocrats in the old world.  Neverthe-
less Miss Fay was not a great favorite, but she
was kind of a leader and she could ill book the
interposition of a little opinionated child like
Hepsie Hathaway. After all she felt in her
heart the child was more than a match for her.
Hepsie did know something about love, albeit
it was only an intuition, and she herself could
not have defined her own delicate sense of the
divine sentiment.
	Unvittingly she had touched a chord in the
heart of each of these young and blooming
maidens, so much older and wiser in the ways
of the world, it was the very outbusrt of
spontaneity.
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARIA MITCHELL.

	The death of this great astronomer occurred
at her home in Lynn, Massacusetts, July 3rd.
For the last two years she had been in failiug
health, but the news of her death was a sur-
prise and shock. Regardless of sex she was
one of the great scientists of the age. She was
a tender, loving friend to the thousands of
girls who had come under her instruction, and 
as she was an outspoken advocate of woman
suffrage, and the firm friend of its leaders, her
loss will be greatly mourned in their ranks. 
The Hartford, Connecticut, Times gives this 
concise account of her life:
	Miss Mitchell was born in Nantucket. She
would have been 71 had she lived till the 1st
of August. Doubtless she had not the astonish-
ing mathematical powers of her English prede-
cessor, Mrs. Somerville, in the exploration of
the starry heavens and their sublime laws.
But she was the world's one great living fe-
male astronomer, and had been, for more than
thirty years. She may have been indebted
for her choice of astronmy as her field, to the
circumstances of her having been early an as-
sistant of her father, a Nantucket school
teacher, in his astronomical studies. However
that  may be, she became greatly interested in
the study, and gave particular attention to
nebulae and comets. For the discovery of a 
comet in 1847 she received a gold medal from
the King of Denmark. Her subsequent work
on the United States coast survey, and on the 
Nautical Almanac, continued for ten years,
when in 1857 she resigned it and went to Eu-
rope, where she visited all the great observa-
tories and made personal acquaintance of lead-
ing European astronomers. Twenty years ago
she received the appointment of astronomical
professor at Vassar; a position which she held,
discharging in an able manner its active duties,
until, two or three years ago, failing health
compelled her to resign. She was a member
of the American Association far the Advance-
ment of Science, and of the American Acad-
emy of Arts and Science, and in fact, was al-
together a remarkable woman. A woman who
can calculate eclipses, test the question of the
parallax of a fixed star, and give us informa-
tion concerning the nebulae, may well be cele-
brated by the advocates of the modern doc-
trine, that women can do some, at least, and
a sublime part, too, of the work of men.---Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Pundita Ramabai is lecturing to crowded
audiences in Bombay on the education of
women.
	Boston University has graduated 478
doctors of medicine, nearly one-half of whom
are women.
	A constitutional convention for New Mexico,
with a view to Statehood, is to be held next
September.
	Louise Imogen Guiney, who is an oarswoman
as well as a poet, has a paper on "Rowing” in
the August Wide Awake.
	The Supreme Court of Michigan has just
confirmed the decision of the lower courts, that
in Michigan women may vote for school
officers.
	Memorial services in honor of Mrs Lucy
Webb Hayes were held last Sunday by the
local W. C. T. U.’s, by the request of Miss
Francis E. Willard.
	John G. Whittier writes: “I earnestly hope
the new-created States of the West will lay
their foundations on the rock of justice and
equality, and thus secure to their people the
full rights of citizenship irrespective of sex or
color.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A STRIKE.

	Once upon an evening dreary,
	As I pondered sad and weary
O'er the basket with the mending from the wash
		the day before;
	As I thought of countless stitches,
	To be placed in little breeches,
Rose my heart rebellious in me, as it oft had done
		before,
At the fate which did condemn me when my daily
		task was o'er,
	To that basket evermore.

	John, without a sign or motion,
	Read no thought of the commotion,
		Which within me rankled sore.
	"He," thought I, "when day is ended,
	Has no stockings to be mended,
	Has no babies to be tended,
		He can sit and read and snore;
	He can sit and read and rest him:
		Must I work thus evermore?"
	And my heart, rebellious, answered,
	"Nevermore; no, nevermore."

		T though I am but a woman,
	Every nerve within is human,
Aching, throbbing, overworked, mind and bod
		sick and sore,
	I will strike when day is ended,
	Though the stockings are not mended,
Though my course can't be defended.  Safe be-
		hind the closet door
	Goes the basket with the mending, and I'll
		haunted be no more:
	In the daylight shall be crowded all the work
		that I will do:
	When the evening lamps are lighted, I will
		read the papers too.
							SELECTED.


WHEN SUFFRAGE COMES.
When suffrage comes, what shall your lordships say?
	Is it to spoil the mother's holy charm,
To take the maiden's lovely guise away,
	To make ward rowdies out of womanhood,
And do the gentler sex a lasting harm,
	And none a good?

When suffrage comes, is it to cast a blight
	On home delight and pretty household play,
To lose a blessing looking for a right,
	When wives disown the tributary place,
Nor the old rule of custody obey—
	So losing grace?

What myriad fretful spirits still there are,
	What chafing still in many a trammelled lot,
What family that knows no petty jar,
	No murmur of a half-imprisoned will,
"Which—take resentment playfully, or not—
	Is restless still?

What constant evils plod their heavy course?
	What lives are linked, yet foreign in their sphere?
There is divorce ere marriage seeks divorce;
	Fair souls rebel that may not justly share
In answering justice when the world appears
	To go unfair.

If suffrage comes; if lives have common cause,
	And not apart as now their ways pursue?
Let times be changed; let shallow judgment pause—
	We yet may own, with pleasure in the claim,
So dear a home and hearth we never knew
	Ere suffrage came!

When suffrage comes, who questions in the court—
	How come these seekers for a woman's crown?
They come with souls of truth, with minds of thought,
	They come with righteous zeal to spread the light;
They come whose duties done in fair renown
	Have earned their right.
									Selected.


LONG ISLAND PARTY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Some time ago we read in the Deseret News
of a Long Island party in Salt Lake City.
We have lately had the pleasure of attending
a Long Island party in Long Island.. There
is a branch of the Church organized at Ocean-
ville L. I. presided over by Bro. Elbert Soper.
Bro. Albaroni H. Woolley is a missionary
whose field of labor at present lies in this
branch.  For some time a beach party has
been contemplated by the members of the
branch here: and Bro. Woolley, with commen-
dable loyalty and love for his mountain home
suggested the Twenty-fourth of July,—Utah's
Pioneer day, for the event.  Accordingly, a
merry boatfull started at eight o'clock a. m. of
that day, to float out with high tide and enjoy
a sail on the smooth waters of the Bay.
	Salt Lake City was represented by Messrs.
E. H. Petitt; A. H, Woolley and wife, C. F.
Wilcox wife and children. The sailboat is the
property of Bro. Ira Petitt, and his son E. H.
has guided that same vessel many and many
a time over those waters, the depths and shal-
lows and dangers thereof which he knew "like
a book."  We were glad to have such a
captain.  A clam bake on the sandy beach
was a part of the program.  After leaving
Petitt's place we sailed across to Point Lookout
where hotel and cottages have lately been
erected by the Long Beach Company:  There
the women and children landed while the men
returned to the boat to go in search of clams.
These are found in shallow places and taken
from the mud by means of a rake. A good
sized basketfull was thus secured in a short
time.  While the men were thus prosily en-
gaged the women were delighting in the luxury
of "gathering up the shells from the seashore."
And the children!  How they all rejoiced in
the wide stretch of sand, so white and clean
and no restraint put upon the blessed darlings
for fear of soiling frocks.  How  with their
tiny shovels the excavated wells, and heaped
up mountains which were diminished almost as
soon as erected.  It seemed too bad to be
called from such pleasures, but hungry time
was coming, and preparations must be made
for lunch.  Only those whose appetites have at
some time been thus whetted by salt breezes
and not destroyed by illness can tell what fine
flavors that lunch possessed.  After lunch
more wandering on the sand viewing seaweed,
jelly fish, etc. tossed up by the restless sea.
	Bathing in the surf was enjoyed by some of
the older ones, and the children were pleased
by the great waves washing upon their bare
feet. Later on the clams were to be roasted,
but alas! for mortal plans.  We were called to
the boat, as a young woman was suffering much
from sudden illness.  We proceeded to our land-
ing and she was taken to a neighboring house,
still enduring much pain. Upon being ad-
ministered to by the Elders she was immedi-
ately relieved.
	She had been baptized but a few days before,
and rejoiced in this added testimony. Those
present were also joyful at this manifestation
of the goodness of our Father, and felt the
day to be a better one than if the original
plan had been fulfilled.
					Lizzie S. Wilcox.


[Column 1]
﻿UNCOMMON COURAGE.
	During the last Congress a bill was passed
providing for the disestablishment of the
Mormon Church. All its assetts in excess of
$50,000 not used exclusively for religious
purposes were to be delivered into the hands
of a receiver, its affairs wound up and its
property was to escheat to the United States.
Under the provisions of this bill the receiver
obtained possession of farm lands, coal lands,
[Column 2]
gas stock, telegraph stock, droves of cattle,
flocks of sheep and other property, worth in
in all about $900,000, and today the Mormon
Church is paying to the United States Govern-
ment rent for the use of its former possessions.
It is claimed that the Mormom Church is
dangerous, But is it any more closely united,
does it have greater weight in politics than the
Church of Rome? Has it ever taken such a
decided political stand as the Methodist Church
took at its recent conference in New York,
where the platform of the prohibition party
was enthusiastically endorsed? The Mormon
doctrine sanctioning polygamy has been the
principal source of trouble. Congress very
properly undertook to root out this practice,
and Senator Edmunds’ bill in 1882 met with
satisfactory success. But Congress was not
content to stop there. After enacting the most
stringent laws against polygamy, it passed the
confiscation bill, which can be regarded only
as a direct attack upon a religious corporation.
This measure is of a piece with the treatment
to which the Mormons have been subjected
throughout their history. In 1844, officers of
Illinois arrested two men and confined them in
jail at Carthage. A mob collected, broke open
the doors of the jail, seized the prisoners and
murdered them. People said then, and some
still assert, that justice was meted out to
Joseph Smith and his brother. But is lynch
law likely to secure the justice which Ameri-
can citizens wish to see enforced? On the
banks of the Mississippi the Mormons built a
flourishing city. But the people of Illinois
did not want such neighbors, and so for three
days they bombarded Nauvoo. In the open-
ing of winter, men, women and children were
driven from their homes, compelled to forsake
their possessions and flee they knew not
whither. We glorify our persecuted Pilgrim
Fathers, who planted amid the snows and rocks
of a wilderness the seeds of free government
and their chosen religion. Is their case
essentially unlike that of the Mormons?
Literally hunted from State to State, they
too, resolved to found a home where they
might enjoy religious freedom. Through an
unknown desert, over the Rocky Mountains,
encompassed by dangers, they pushed their
way until they reached the Salt Lake basin.
In subsequent years the persecutors of the
Puritans did not withold from the settlers of
New England their due meed of praise; and
all men who believe in the progress of the
world, though condemning to the lowest in-
ferno the Mormon creed, should laud the
principle that guided both Puritan and
Mormon in their wanderings. When Roger
Williams preached religious freedom in Massa-
chusetts they drove him from the colony, but
they permitted him to enjoy his religious
opinions in his new home. The Church of
Utah was haunded from place to place till it
found a refuge in the Western desert, and the
descendents of the New England Puritans are
not satisfied to allow it to rest even there.
While a dollar remains to the Church of
Mormons the carpetbag politicians of Utah
will clamor for it, and Congress, in granting it,
will imagine that it is rooting out polygamy.
The cause of the Mormon church is the cause
of every church in the Territories. If the
United States Government can confiscate the
property of one religious corporation, what is
to prevent it from doing the same to any other
denomination at any time it shall please?
When the profligate John Wilkes championed
the liberty of the press and advocated parlia-
mentary reform he became a hero. The
Mormon Church of Utah represents today as
sacred a principle as John Wilkes or Roger
Williams ever stood for; and Congress in com-
bating this principle is not checking the in-
fluences of Mormonism.”


44			WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,			-			Editor,
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months; 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-		-		AUGUST 15, 1889.


NEITHER DEFEAT OR VICTORY.

	The Peoples Party have not suffered any defeat
in the recent election, neither have the Liberals
gained anything of a victory; though they made
a great ado and noise and held "high revelry” so
clamorous as to be distressing One would won-
der if those young men with stentorian lungs ever
thought of the injury they were doing to the sick
the nervous, and the aged. Besides what was
accomplished by it? Nothing at all unless it was
the gratification of a few with vitiated tastes who
delight in a species of barbarism frightening
women and children, wakening them from peace-
ful sleep to a perfect pandemonium
	These "Liberals” have not done themselves
proud, nor honored their party, by yelling and
hooting and making night hideous.

	“As when in tumults rise the ignoble crowd,
	Mad are their motions, and their tounges are loud."

	It seemed only noise that they wanted to make,
they were so hilarious and full of exultation, that
what the crowd might have done if they had
carried the City, as they vainly tried to make
people believe, against their own knowledge of
facts, it is impossible to conceive.
	As for some of their orators, they incited the
maddening crowd no doubt, as in other days and
times now long past, when it was said,—

					“That talking knave
	Consumes his time in speeches to the rabble,
	And sows sedition up and down the city.
	Picking up discontented fools, belying
	The senators and government; destroying
	Faith among honest men, and praising knaves."

	If the Liberals think to gain any of the votes of
the Peoples Party by any such "hurrah” as that
of Monday night the 5th of August, they will be
sadly mistaken, and they will have less votes in-
stead of more for all the carousing they have
done. There is an old saying, "Don’t crow until
you are out of the woods, "which may prove
applicable to the Liberals.
	The Peoples Party are strong and it is hoped
will be vigilant; and we entertain no fears
of a victory for the Liberals in Feburary and
most confidently believe the People’s Party
will carry the election if honest means are em-
ployed "Taxation without representation is tyr-
anny,’ and those who are tax payers, of
whatever paety, should have fair representation;
but justice, equity, and honesty, shoulb be the
standards, and not political trickery.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Mrs Zina D. H. Young, General President of
the Relief Society left the city on Wednesday


August 7. on a tour through Beaver, Panguitch,
and Millard Stakes. Aunt Zina remained over
night at Springville on her way, to visit her
brother Oliver Huntington who resides there, and
resumed her journey the following day August 8
having been joined by Mrs Minerva W. Snow. 
These sisters proceeded direct to Milford, where
they were met by a carriage from Beaver, and 
held meeting Friday Aug. 9, at Minersville, and
afterwards meeting on the way at Greenville 
and Adamsville, arriving at Beaver, Saturday
night where they expected to remain about three
days, and from there go to Panguitch.
	Sister M. Isabella Horne one of the leading
sisters of Zion and President of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Stake and who also holds
other important positions among the women of Zion, 
is paying a visit to her daughter Mrs. Nora Spen-
cer in Paris, Bear Lake County, Idaho; she is accom-
panied by her husband Elder Jos. Horne and other
members of the family, all hoping to find a cooler
climate, although Sister Horne will doubtless ac-
cording to her regular custom when away or when
at home be holding meetings, talking to the sisters,
encouraging and interesting them in their duties
and labors in the organizations of the Relief 
Society, Young Ladies and Primary. Mrs. Martha
H. Tingey is with her mother and as she is First
Counselor in the General Presidency of the Y. L.
M. I. A. she will likely meet with the Young
Ladies and give them the benefit of her wise
counsel and experience in matters pertaining to
their best interests and advancement. 
	Before going to press, Sister Horne returned
from her trip to Bear Lake, and informs us that 
she held meetings in Paris, both branches of the
Relief Society coming together on Thursday,
the 25th of July, and on Friday, went to Mont-
pelie- with Sisters Lindsay and Sheppard, offi-
cers of that Stake, and held meeting there at two
o'clock. Saturday morning went over to Ben-
nington and met with the sisters at ten o'clock.
As it was the haying season there were not as 
many brethren who could attend, although those
who did attend were much pleased as usual,
with the spirit of the meetings and the instruc-
tions given. The Relief Society and other or-
ganizations in the Stake are in a prosperous con-
dition. The minutes of the meeting were very
good. Sister Horne found her daughter, Mrs.
Horne found her daughter, Mrs. Geo. Spencer
and family all well. Her two daughters who
accompanied her, Mrs. M. H. Tingey and Mrs.
Clara E. James have enjoyed the trip and visit
with friends, very much.


A LITTLE GIRL’S LETTER.

DEAR EDITOR:
     Thinking perhaps a few lines from this little place
will be acceptable, I take the liberty to write you
of a pleasant surprise and farewell party which
was given on July 17th to our highly esteemed
Bro. Hans M. Hansen, who departed on the 20th
on a mission to his native land, Norway.  He is
first Counselor to our Bishop.
     The Bishop and Bro Hansen went out for a ride,
and to call on some friends, during the afternoon.
At three o'clock the people of the Fremont, and
Loa Wards, gathered at the Fremont School
house, where tables were spread with the good
things of the earth.  At four P. M. the Bishop
came back, and seeing the crowd assembled drove
up to the School house, when several of the men
took Bro. Hansen from the buggy and carried
him into the house.  After his surprise and the
excitement of the moment was over, the choir
sang, "Adieu my dear brethren adieu."  Prayer
was then offered, and all partook of the boun-
teous repast. 
     The evening was spent in dancing intermingled


with songs, recitations etc, which had been pre-
pared by the people for the occasion.
	At a little after midnight benediction was pro-
nounced, all feeling to join in thanking our
Heavenly Father for His blessings, and asking
His divine care and blessings on our brother and
his family during his absence.
	Tickets for the party were isued at 50cts. each,
the proceeds of which with contributions from the
people made up a purse of over $80,00 to assis
Bro. Hansen. 
	The Lord is blessing this portion of His little
flock with peace and prosperity.
	I am an interested reader of your very valuable
little paper, and ever pray for the welfare of Zion.
									DELTA.
Fremont, July, 1889.


A VOICE FROM THE TWENTIETH
			WARD.
	Being a lover of flowers and shrubs I strolled
around to see some of the lovely places last eve-
ning, but instead of the many-hued flowers and
fragrant climbers, roses, etc. one sees scorched
grass, parched flowers and dying trees. In pass-
ing one of our city councilor’s I found some of his
dying as well as mine, and yet the City Council
are accused and abused every day; but like a
wise man he was making the best of the situation,
and had instructed his gardener to perforate some
oil cans about an inch from the bottom, which if
kept filled with water would keep the roots moist
and perhaps save the plants. I believe the Lord
helps those that help themselves. There has been
considerable talk this Summer about priority of
City creek water which all amounts to nothing.
	My husband owns and has cultivated a bench
lot for twenty-four years or more, but can’t re-
member the summer that irragation alone would
keep it green and fertile; many times we have
carried water from the ditch for an hour at a time
to the lower part of the garden because the
stream was so low and besides, many summers we
have been in the habit of saving soap-suds and
scrubbing water to carry to our trees. But says
one, with soapy water you will surely kill them but
we have proven it to be a good fertilizer, not only
large trees, but I give it to my climbers and house
plants occasionally, it has never killed one yet, but
makes them green and strong, but I presume our
leading Florist John Reading will not approve of
that statement; but I can pick many bouquets all
winter from my plants; so you see Mrs. Wells
there are many ways to help the growth of the
beautiful.
	Our peaceful ward and playground was invaded
by our would be tyrants last night; how can they
call themselves “Liberals” when they would make
serfs and slaves of us, they would increase our
taxes so much that a poor man would not be able
to maintain his family; the next visit they pay us
we would be more pleased if they would let our
old Schoolhouse alone. It is a dear old land-
mark of the Twentieth ward, how many times we
have taken our pictures and decorations and some-
times furniture to make it attractive for our social
entertainments. It makes the tears start when I
think of the good old social time.
	Some of us mothers would send a lounge over
covered with a nice soft Buffalo robe for our
babies to sleep on while we joined in the merry
dance, oh how well I remember the first leap-year
party we had there, an old friend of mine chose
Pres. Young and Kimball for her patners in a
Scotch reel, what a pleasant evening we spent.
How many of the dear old “stand-bys” in their
clean sunbonnets would partake of the Sacrament
on the Sabbath, week after week in that same
dear, old school house. How many pleasant
Relief Society meetings, we have held these when


we would knit sow and vuilt in the days of Ma
Smoot and Sister Sharp.  How many of ro dear
friends have we taken from there to the Silent City
it seems to me I could fill a book of the pleasant
times we have had in that old School house, it will
never seem old to us.
	We never asked our "Liberal" friends to help
build it, we built by donation, and I can very
well remember the gentleman that was heaping
abuse upon it last night teaching school there
for his living but I can assure him it has been
very much improved since that time, and recent
donations have made it very comfortable for many
purposes, I can assure them last nights talk won't
help their cause in this ward, for many of the
young people were not in the habit of listening to
such talk, besides hearing their parents Malighd.
I don't think many will follow them: as for free
schools we will leave that to the future.
	The rains and Mr. Webbs cold wave we will be
thankfull for when the Lord sends them, we are
n his hands and will abide his time, we came
here have worked hard to make our homes and
build our School houses through the blessings of
our Father in heaven we have done it, many of us
walked half the journey from Florence to Salt
Lake City, and carried our babes and if the Lord
permits us to live, we intend to stay, and if our
trees die we will plant more.  The down trodden
women of Utah have learned to do all kinds of
work, lest I tire you I will call myself one of Bro.
Naisbitts,
						Old Fashioned Mothers.
August 3rd 1889.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HALF A CENTURY.
	The reception room at the Deseret Hospital was
invaded on Thursday evening August 8th by a
company of brethren and sisters, during the ab-
sence of the Dr. Romania B. Pratt who had been
sent away to hunt up an unknown patient.  The
nurses and help were in the secret and had dec-
orated the rooms with flowers and vines and made
all needful preparations.  A very artistic cake in
pyramids and ornamented like a bride’s cake was
on the table the work of her daughter in law Mrs.
P. P. Pratt.
     When the Dr. arrived she was very much sur-
prised to find her friends seated and chatting
away merrily.  She was warmly greeted and con-
gratulated on having reached the half century so
active buoyant fresh, and blooming a matrons
Speeches were made, songs sung and everything
passed off joyously.  Several of those who spoke
alluded to her as being the pioneer woman in the
profession in Utah, having been the first lady
graduate here, and stimulating others to follow
her noble example.  Dr. Pratt has made herself a
name and won laurels in her profession by her
own individual exertions and undaunted heroism
in the study of medicine and surgery.  Dr. E. S.
Barney read an address replete with funny
things and yet prophetic of the future.  The ad-
dress written and read  by Mrs. Lillie Freezs in a
clear voice and most happy manner expressed the
sentiments of those who had assembled in honor
of the anniversary.
     Mrs. Freeze in behalf of a few of Dr. Pratt’s
friends presented her with a very large photo-
graph album.

     It is with feelings of sincere gratitude and
pleasure that I arise to congratulate my very dear
friend upon another anniversary of her birthday—
this one of unusual interest having completed seven
times seven and a Jubilee, as we behold her radiant
and blooming face, one is led to believe that Old
Father time has shown partiality and claimed her
as one of his especial pets.
     When His hand has rested upon your brow and
tresses it was not to plow furrows, or streak with
silver, each stroke has seemed a tender caress.

[column 2]
But there is a change an utter change that comes
upon the heart.
     In you we recognize many gifts and graces that
glorify the character of woman.  We admire your
talents, we honor your undaunted courage and
perseverance in toiling alone up the rugged hill of
science, opening the path to a higher and broader
field of usefulness for your sex.  We appreciate
your womanly virtues and we love you as a friend.
It was said of Napoleon that he could win battles
but Josephine had achieved the greater success
for she could win hearts; the presence of so many
appreciative friends assembled here to-night to
honor your Jubilee proves that you have
learned the art known to the charming.  Empress
of France.
     I believe sincerely that those whom you have
admitted to the inner temple of your life—those
who know you best, love you most.
     As a memento of this delightful occasion I take
pleasure in presenting to you, in behalf of the
company—this album.  Representing as it does a
mirror in which you may behold the faces of your
friends, and we trust that you may enjoy many a
silent visit with them when life’s duties have
turned our footsteps into varied paths.  And we
also entertain the hope that the memory of the
friendship that has prompted us to make this
simple offering, may be as a broken fountain of
perfume shedding its fragrance adown the stream
of life until it merges into the great sea of Eternity,
in the Celestial kingdom of our Father, where we
may meet again and renew and perfect our associa-
tions begun on earth,
     Respectfully inscribed to Dr. Romania B. Pratt on her
50th anniversary.

'Tis not by years, and years alone
That we should count times restless flight.
For now, though fifty years have flown
We see our friend so young to-night,
Life’s cares and pains that come to all
And leave stern marks upon the brow,
Are not here found, no dark’ning pall
Enshrouding her with sad'ning woe,

Experience has left behind
Its rare and radiant traces,
Enriching heart, and soul, and mind, 
Thus adding loveliest graces,
Of sweetest sympathy and love,
Of wisdom, and humility,
Reliance on our God above
In faith, with hope and charity.

Her powers too of usefulness
Have been enhanced by patient toil.
She finds in truth the blessedness
Of "pouring on the waters oil"—
Securing peace, relieving pain;
And making many hearts rejoice.
Imparting hope and faith, again
With music in her soothing voice.

Then may her usefulness extend
Throughout all time.  Life has no close!
For her our fervent prayers ascend
As full of incense, as the rose
Is full of fragrance sweet and rare.
And may each year in onward flight
Increasing blessings to her spare!
And as the morning, make the night.
	Your loving friend,
				ELLIS R. SHIPP.

     The birthday party was a perfect success,
not only in speeches and gifts and songs but in
the most delicious refreshments.  The Exponent
offers most fervent congratulations wishing the
genial and intellectual Dr. long life, and prosperity
peace and happiness.


[column 1]

		       ﻿IN MEMORIAM.
     Died July 28th at her residence in St. George
Utah, Mrs. Sarah Anterberry Church, widow of
Haden W. Church.  Sister Church was born on

[column 2]
the 4th of May, 1824 in Dallas Co. Alabama. She
was baptized and confirmed in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints by Elder John
Brown.
     She was subsequently married to Haden W.
Church in her native State. She and her husband
shortly after proceeded to Nauvoo, where they
arrived about the year 1845 not long before the
exodus from that place. They were among the
foremost of the company when the Saints moved
west. When the call of the United States govern-
ment for the “Mormons” to furnish five hundred
men to assist in the war with Mexico, Bro. Church
was among the number to enlist, leaving his wife
with her first babe to make her way as best she
could to the Valley of Salt Lake, where she
arrived in September 1847.
     Bro. and Sister Church were for many years
permanent residents of the 14th ward in this City
Sister Church was a member and active worker in
the Relief Society in an early day and was an
intimate friend of Sister Phebe Woodruff and
Ma Smoot. Sister Church was also an intimate
friend of our beloved “Sister Eliza.”
     At the General Conference in October 1861.
Bro. Church and his family were called to South-
ern Utah, and taking up their line of march again
in a wagon they were among the very first to settle
on the present site of St. George, and Sister
Church has resided there ever since up to the time
of her demise. She was a most exemplary dili-
gent and faithful Latter-Day Saint.  In the first
Ward of St. George she was First Counselor in
the Relief Society to the President, Sister Hannah
E. Crosby and they were daily associated in their
labors of love among the people of the ward and
were like two sisters in very deed. Sister Crosby
was in Salt Lake City at the time of the decease
of her dear friend and Counselor.
     In addition to Sister Church’s labors in her
home, attending to household duties, she has
been a regular worker in the St. George Temple
from the first of its opening, and was a great
blessing and comfort to all who were favored with
her administration. Sister Church was also a
nurse among the sisters and will be greatly missed
by them in times of trial and sorrow. She was
called for by night and by day to go here and
there where her help was needed, and never failed
to respond if it was possible for her to go.
     She was always cheerful, full of faith and her
energy of character was remarkable. She pos-
sessed those hospitable and benevolent traits of
character so conspicuous in the Southern people,
in an eminent degree, was always self denying
and forgot her own troubles in ministering to
others. Her memory will ever be preserved fresh
and green in the hearts of the people among
whom she lived and labored so faithfully in the
Latter-day work. All honor to her noble woman-
hood. A faithful and devoted wife, a wise, tender
and judicious mother. “Her children,” will as-
suredly “rise up and call her blessed.” And all
Israel will praise her name and hold it in honor-
able remembrance.
     She leaves one daughter and four sons one of
them now on a mission to the Southern States,
and twenty-eight grand children who will mourn
her loss deeply. It is said by some of her friends
that she grieved so much when her son was im-
prisoned for his fidelity to principle, that she never
afterwards recovered herself, and it is thought to-
have been the primal cause of the illness of
which she died. There have been many such
martyrs, mothers and wives since the crusade be
gan against this people, and their names are no
doubt inscribed oh the martyr’s roll.
     Sister Church has gone to meet her husband,
Sisters Woodruff,Smoot, Sister Eliza, the Prophet
Joseph, and many others, her death was
no doubt a glorious victory to her, and her un-
wavering faith and diligence in keeping the com-
mandments of God will secure to her the promise


she held sacred of a part in the First Resurrection
of the just. We sincerely sympathize with the
bereaved ones, and may our Heavenly Father
soften this affliction to them by imparting his Holy
Spirit in rich abundance, to soothe their grief, and
her children follow her illustrious example that
they may meet her again in the Celestial World
where there will be no more parting forevermore.
			“No aching hearts are there,
	No tear dimmed eye, no form by sickness wasted,
	No cheek grown pale through penury or care;
	No spirits crushed beneath the woes they bear
					bliss untasted." 
			Er hath not heard the song
	Of rapturous praise within that shining portal,
	No heart of man hath dreamed what joys belong,
	To that redeemed and happy blood-washed throng,
			All glorious and immortal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE AT OGDEN.

	The monthly meeting of the Woman’s Suffrage
Association of Ogden convened at the County
Court House, July 1st 1889.
	Prest. E. Y. Standford called the assembly to 
order.	
	Prayer by the chaplain Mrs. Odell.
	The minutes of the previous meeting were read
and approved.
	Prof. L.D. Edwards rendered the solo, “Man
the Life Boat,” in excellent style.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was next introduced to the
assembly. The lady ably handled that important
subject, “Woman’s Rights.”
	At the close of her highly interesting lecture, a
hearty vote of thanks was tendered Mrs. Wells.
	Prof. Edwards favored the audience with an
instrumental solo, performed with his usual skill	
	Mr. Scott Anderson next delivered a short ad-
dress.
	Meeting adjourned for one month. A full at-
tendance at the next meeting is earnestly solicited
	The Suffrage Association held an interesting
meeting Friday afternoon, August 2, in the court-
house. Mrs. Hilliard delivered an interesting ad-
dress on woman’s work, her influence in the world
for good, and the result of her labors through these
organizations in suppressing intemperance and its
attendant evils. Five minute speeches were made
by Mrs. Pingree, Williams, Careswell, Miss Can-
field and others. These ladies esteemed it their
duty to enter their protest against the increase of
saloons, the establishment of gambling dens,
variety shows and houses of ill-fame, and by a
petition would remonstrate against these evils and
ask the City officials of Ogden to enforce the laws
to crush them out of existence.
	The Misses McGaw delighted the audience in
their rendition of a song and duet, when the meet-
ing adjourned for one month.
							Aggie Herrick.
					Assistant Sec’y.

	Mrs. Wells address was published in the
Woman’s Exponent of July 15.


[Column 1]
W. S. A. Meeting.
	The Utah W. S. A. held its regular meeting
in the Social Hall on Friday July 19, Vice
Pres. Mrs. Nellie R. Webber in the chair.  On
the platform at her side the Ch. of the Ex.
Com. Mrs Ann E. Groosbeck, The Secretary
Mrs. C. H. Horne and the Treasurer Miss
Margie Dwyer were also present, Miss V. Neb-
eker furnished music on the organ, and a
prayer was offered by the Chaplain Dr. E. S.
Barney.  Minutes of foumer meeting were
read by the Secretary and also the revised By
Laws were read and voted upon, names of new
members presented and some micellaneous busi-
ness transacted.  A letter was read by the

[Column 2]
Secretary from the President Mrs. Margaret
Caine tendering her resignation, which was
formally accepted and a motion was made and
seconded that Mrs. L. D. Alder be acting
President the remainder of the year.
	The Chairman then called upon Mrs. S. M.
Kimball who had just recently returned from
the East to address the audience.
	Mrs. Kimball made some telling remarks
on the suffrage question, and then took up
the subject of dress reform. She had visited
the rooms of Annie Jenness Miller in New
York, and had examined into the details of
the matter somewhat deeply, and her remarks
were interesting and the subject as she pre-
sented it worthy the careful attention and in-
vestigation of all concerned in the future
welfare and well-being of mankind.
		MRS. E. B. WELLS.
		ADDRESS TO U. W. S. A.
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen.—
Last night in pondering over the subject of an
address to this assembly which I had been re-
quested to make to-day, these words came
forcibly to my mind:

		I live for those who love me
		For those who know me true,
		For the heaven that smiles above me
		And the good that I can do.

	Otherwise in the midst of my multiplicity of
duties I should have given it up. If my ex-
perience or my views are of any benefit to those
less acquainted with the franchise, or who
have not had the same opportunities for ob-
taining information on these points, then I am
willing to do my best to help—hoping that I
may do some little grain of good.
	I do not, and never could understand why
sensible women with mature ideas should pro-
test against woman’s suffrage; the ballot for
women as well as men seems to me to be en-
tirely consistent with the principles of justice
and equity, and I cannot comprehend why
men need the franchise more than women;
those who believe that all men support and
protect all women, might say so, but every
woman that has kept her eyes open in this
world knows that this is not the case.
	There are to be sure honorable exceptions,
but it is not the general rule—think of it ye
who may! Women have quite as much at
stake in all matters pertaining to “life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness" as men, and
they belong to the people, that is in our country
it has been so declared. The preamble of the
constitution says, “We the people of the
United States in order to form a more perfect
union, establish justice, ensure domestic tran-
quility, provide for the common defense, pro-
mote the general welfare, and secure the bless-
ings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity,
do ordain and establish this constitution for
the United States of America.” Certainly
women were a part and included in this great
body politic. They desire justice and are the
ones who do the most to promote domestic
tranquility, and when it says “for ourselves
and our posterity,” who is more interested than
the mother? In the days when these words
were written there is not the least doubt that
the women did their full share of the work,
and helped carry the burdens. We who have
been pioneers in colonizing can appreciate
something of their duties and the cares that must
necessarily have fallen upon these early settlers
of America.
	Are men really so much more capable than
their mothers, or wives, or sisters? That is a
question still open to discussion, and many
learned men and women have argued it in print
under the title of “sex in brain". and as far as
co-education is concerned where young men
and young women have been trained in
the same pursuits and studies, and by the
same methods, the girls quite frequently

[Column 3]
carry off the honors; which was notably the
case recently in San Francisco—as you who
read the papers must know.
	Article I. of the amendment to the con-
stitution says: “The right of the people to
peacably assemble and petition for a redress
of grievances, etc.” That right is one that
I think has never been denied to women,
though quite often the redress sought has not
been obtained. In this women are recognized
as a part of the people. But as we often say
in regard to the scriptnres, so it is in politics.
Man means woman in certain places, but when
the divines and law-givers want it to mean
man alone—they so decide. And so they con-
tinue to deal out to women, as they feel in-
clined, a little here and a little there, or none
at all as the case may be, place and power in
public life.
	I know some advocates of woman suffrage
say, if men will not give us our just rights—
equal privileges,we will not accept a part; we
want the whole loaf and not crumbs, but the
principle a little at a time is certainly better
than none at all—and when any new revolu-
tion in affairs comes gradually the people are
better prepared to take hold of it. Here is a
pretty poetical illustration:

	Little by little the torrent said
	As it swept along its narrow bed,
		Chafing in wrath and pride,
	Little by little and day by day,
	And with every wave it bore away
	A grain of sand from the banks which lay
		Like granite walls on either side

Whereupon you will readily, see I an in favor
of taking what we can get, let it be ever so
grudgingly given. The great point to be
gained now, is to prepare women for the polit-
ical privileges that are bound to come, if they
do come slowly.
	We often say the mothers need it, and that
is true, there are I believe more arguments in
favor of mothers than any other class, though
I would not state it positively; but there are
women and I have instances one or two,
especially in my mind, who are not mothers,
who are and have been public benefactors, and
I think how much more they could have ac-
complished if they had been privileged with
the political and I might almost say social
rights of men. They have been deprived of
motherhood such as has been vouchsafed to
others, perhaps for the greater good they have
accomplished as mothers of peoples.
	There is much that might be said definitely
on this subject, but there is one other of vital
importance I would like to touch, and that is
the mother’s right to her child—it is said of
one woman that when she heard that in the
State of Rhode Island—the father could ap-
point a guardian for his child and deprive the
mother of all right to it if he so chose, she
said: “Why do not all the women of America
cry aloud against this terrible injustice to
mothers?” Many of the states have had their
laws more or less modified in this respect, since
women began agitating equal rights, but much
injustice in this regard still exists.
	Next on the programme was a song very
sweetly rendered by Miss E. Morehead.
	ROMANIA B. PRATT M. D..
Some reasons for women studying politics.
	“Politics is the science of government, that
part of ethics which has to do with the regu-
lation and government of a nation or state.
The preservation of its safety, peace and pros-
perity, the defense of its existence and rights
against foreign control or conquest, the aug-
mentation of its strength and resources, and
the protection of its citizens in their rights,
with the perservation and improvement of their


[Column 1]
﻿morals.” The potency and pith of every line
n the above quotation find full application in
he home circle, the miniature type of all or-
ganizations, where women preside conjointly
with their husbands or should do so. If
women can be educated in and have a voice in
the government of the city, county, state or
territory in which they reside they would be a
mighty factor in restraining the rise and
flourishing of the myriads of dens of temp-
tation which now bristle from every corner of
all great cities, alluring the youthful and
curious mind into paths which lead to lives
not only pernicious to the welfare, peace and
prosperity of the community, but add to the
burdens of the moral and law-abiding citizens,
by forcing them to contribute of their hard
earnings in taxes to support prisons and jails,
in which the lawless are herded in idleness
usually, because useless and dangerous if at
liberty. Women I believe would be swift to
use every power vested in them, that would
preserve their sons and daughters in the paths
of truth and honor, and establish them in lives
of usefulness and intelligence. Their watch
care and solicitude over their home circles
would stimulate them to extra diligence to get
time to cast their votes, or lift their voices for
honest men and women as officers and against
all measures which endangered the morals of
their families. Where is the science of govern-
ment more required and capable of eternal and
far reaching good than in the home circle where
the seeds of justice, morality and law abiding
instincts are planted in young hearts yet at
the mothers knee? There would be better
home government, parents recognizing and
respecting the rights of their children and the
children the authority and instruction of
parents and of each other. The study of the
code of equal rights will benefit every one
whether they ever become voters or not. The
study of politics is a means of development
and therefore it is important that women pur-
sue it, and get a good understanding of it in
all its phases and make obsolete the favorite
objection of some men to women in politics,
that she does not know enough. Victor
Hugo has said the 19th century is the century
of women. “Revolutions go not backward but
forward,” and those of progress are growing
more rapid continually and cutting a wider
swath in the field of musty traditions and
deep worn ruts of thought and habit that have
so long environed women within the narrowest
limits possible. The spirit of the century set
its seal in the foreheads of a few brave souls of
womanly form, whose visions and realizing
sense of equity and justicew as of such strength,
brilliance and fixedness of purpose as to sink
into as deep insignificance all contemptuous
epithets as “strong minded, soured old maid
dissappointed in love” etc. as the moon pales be-
fore the brightness of the noonday sun. The
pioneers of all innovations have been strong or
never would the walls of traditions and old
customs have been broken down and swept
away, and a smooth path beaten for the feet of
weaker ones to follow. When great ends are
to be achieved, a persistence and perseverance
of purpose without a shadow of turning is the
only means of gaining victory. What is this
spirit of the 19th century, that is inspiring
men as well as women with a determined spirit
of resistance. Which says we are all equally the
children of the God of this earth and He
created it for us all to enjoy. Is it not the in-
nate spirit of Justice. Every one born
in the United States whose parents are citizens,
is a citizen by right of birth, but a birth does
not constitute or make the person a voter. To
vote is a privilege and not a right which has
been clearly explained to us in a previous
session and is regulated by the legislature of
each state governed by certain specifications
defined in the constitution of the state or or-
[Column 2]
ganic law of the territory. In the original
thirteen states sex was not a bar to voting but
gradually each state inserted “male” as a
qualification of a voter until now Vermont is
the only state which has not this word in the
suffrage clause of its organic law; but it has
inserted it in its election laws. Monopolies
are rising hydra-headed all over the land and
making it almost impossible for the poor to
live. Many thousand women earn their own
living and many earn it for their families also
doing the same work as men with only half
the wages.  Many women are equally capable
of filling a number of lucrative offices which
now are only eligible to men, where their work
is not heavy and would seem in the fitness of
things more suitable to women than men.
Why not let capacity and ability be the test of
eligibility and not sex? Power is held in re-
spect and when women hold the ballot they
will command more deference then, in virtue
of that power than they do now through the
mere sentiment of chivalry. It is affirmed by
the great workers in suffrage that the greatest
opposition to the cause is the apathy and in-
difference of women themselves. With some
it is from physical exhaustion, because they
have too much to do domestically to have
scarcely an hour a day to read or think of any
thing outside of the four walls of their own
houses and also in the fact that woman’s work
in a family is never done. Yet if the subject
can be so presented to them as to cause a
realization of its benefits to them and others,
an interest will be created and some time will
be found and utilized in investigating the
subject which will result in positive good, that
is now spent less usefully in moments of neces-
sary relaxation. But there is a large class who
have both the leisure, education and ability,
who from sheer apathy and indifference lan-
guidly say they have all the rights they wish
and have no desire to have a voice in politics.
The worst besetting sin of the world is selfish-
ness and will be the very last to loosen its
fangs from the human soul as it passes the
“Gates ajar.” If this great army of fortunate
women would use a few of their leisure hours
in reflecting upon the sad and despairing lives
of thousands of their unfortunate sisterhood,
girls of the factory whose lives are days of toil
for a mere pittance, sewing women with wages
scarcely adequate to keep the wolf from the
door, the drunkards wives who not only have
poverty and toil to contend with, but unkind-
ness and even blows, and numberless other con-
ditions of women too numerous to mention now,
and could be brought to realize that it is in
their power and would be philanthropic and
benevolent to work for the amelioration of this
unchristian condition of affairs, the fear of
being called strong-minded and masculine
would vanish and every man’s wife would in-
sist on knowing why shackles should remain
upon her sex when even the negro is freed, and
why barriers and bans are planted in her path
of progress as a citizen, when she is fully en-
titled to and should be protected by the strong
arm of the law, with equal rights to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness with her
brother. It does not follow as a natural
sequence if women possess the full franchise
that she must or will be elected or accept every
office in the gift of the people. This can
safely be trusted to her sense of propriety and
the good judgment of the people. Let us as
an association seek diligently to inform our-
selves on all matters of government, trying
with the simpler forms as the Municipal, then
County, Territorial and State and the United
States. This does not imply, we should devote
our whole time exclusively to them to the
neglect of our home or business duties, but to
take hold of the subject systematically and at the
beginning and follow it up slowly but surely.
We can then understand better what are our
[Column 3]
rights, and the best manner of petitioning for
them. Much hard and earnest work has been
fruitless, and valuable time lost by basing the
arguments in favor of certain legislature on
debatable premises, for instance the 16th
amendment to the constitution of the U. S.
Those unfavorble to woman suffrage contend-
ing it would be unconstitutional and impossible
while those in favor and apparently with good
logic arguing it as proper and feasible.
	Assertions are not proof, and railing against
and berating masculinity in general and going
to the other extreme of lauding women far
above men is all a waste of time and force. In
a nutshell our duties as suffragists are to in-
form ourselves and instruct each other in  the
science of government, to interest all our
friends in the movement, to convert our fathers,
brothers and husbands to the fact that we can
understand and wield an intelligent power in
politics, and still preside wisely and gracefully
at home, and that until woman’s voice is equally
incorporated in the vox populi that it is not vox
Dei.
	On motion of Mrs. Dougall a vote of thanks
was tendered the ladies, who had so ably
assisted the programme committee. Adjourned
for three months.
		Cornelia H. Clayton. Secretary,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MILLARD COUNTY W. S. A.

	Meetings of the Millard W. S. A. have been
held in Meadow and Kanosh, Mrs. M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh, presiding.  Addresses were de-
livered by the President, and Vice President
Mrs. D. Olsen, Mrs. Gates, of Scipio, Mrs.
Thompson, &c.  Many of the sisters en-
rolled their names, and promised their sup-
port to the cause of woman's freedom.  Meet-
ings will shortly be held at Holden, Scipio,
Leamington, Oak Creek and Deseret, when,
doubtless, the members' roll will be largely in-
creased, so that the W. S. A. of Millard
County will compare favorably with the other
counties.						M. A. Y. G.


THE SUFFRAGE QUESTION.

	I have read with great satisfaction and pride
the doings of the different, W. S. A. which are
being organized in the different Connties.  It
truly argues a very commendable spirit
amongst the women of Utah and serves to
show that knowing their rights, have been un-
justly torn from them they dare strive to
regain them, and will defend their position
against all opposition		.  I felt proud of
the speeches made by the young ladies on the
occasion of their organization, showing talent,
combined with good practical common
sense.—
	The progress of the Womans Suffrage
Movement is an interesting topic.  This
question has served to bring to the point, a
great amount of talent—and deep thought—,
which would otherwise have lain in obscurity,
and the persons themselves would not have been
aware of what they were capable of.  (Thus
accomplishing a double purpose).  So true it
is that every important event that transpires,
and which the mass of the people are interested
in, helps to develop hidden talent, that would
otherwise dwarf or dwindle away for lack of
active exercise.—
	Now here in this sweltering region of Ari-
zona.  We are not exercised very much at the
present time, as to who makes the laws, or who
runs the machinery.  About all the majority
of us are capable of, is to sit in the shade of 
their own or neighbors’ fig tree, and eat the
fruit of their vines and exercise the Palm
leaf, in the vain hope of catching a cool
breeze.  We cannot do much but sit and see


the rest struggle for those inherent rights
which every true friend of humanity would
willingly labor for.
	The mothers of the nation, should certainly
take an interest in the laws that govern them,
and if allowed to vote would sustain good
wholesome laws administered by just, upright
men who are above bribery and corruption
of every kind.  Now, it is not the Offices that
the women are asking for at present but the
Officers, they want their choice.  They are
pleading for what rightly belongs to them, and
I firmly beleive that the time is not far distant
when their rights and privileges will work
along naturally.  But it is well to keep the,
subject a brewing.  In the meantime the
women of Utah should improve their oppor-
tunities, cultivate energy and self-reliance for
without these we cannot hope to accomplish
anything, and be united in the grand work
which is before them, study the laws of their
country and get themselves posted on the
true science of government.  that they may
labor intelligently in the cause.  It would be
the height of folly to think we could go to the
top of the ladder the first leap but step by
step we will climb until the uppermost round
is gained.  Onward and upward should be our
motto, and trust in God and the success of all
women to equal rights and privileges will be
sure.  God speed the day.
		Yours in the cause of right.
								S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

	    THURBER, PIUTE COUNTY.

	On Friday, June 28th, the Stake President,
Sister Elizabeth Bean with her Counselor
Thirza Thurber, also Brother George Bean
visited our settlement, held meeting here at
ten a. m.  Opened by singing, "Welcome
best of all good meetings.  Prayer by Geo.
W. Stringam, singing, "The towers of Zion
soon shall rise." Sister Thurber was the first
speaker, she gave us many good instructions
on various subjects, exhorting us to be faith-
ful in our duties, careful mothers in all our
acts, showing good examples to the young
people; said she never went to meeting but she
was benefitted by it; we should be punctual in
attendance; recommended short meetings and
short sermons and to take a good spirit with us
and we would have a good meeting.  We should
improve our minds by reading good books
especially church works, sermons and so on
said she felt well in her labors, prayed God to
bless all in the name of Jesus.
	Our Stake President, Sister E. Bean thought
the small attendance at meeting was due to
the people being out on their ranches dairying
etc. and after transacting business in appoint-
ing a grain committee counseled the Sisters to
pray for wisdom and be wise, advising as many
as could to take the EXPONENT as it was full
of good instructions; if we were in trouble to
pray in secret and make God our confident
and draw near unto him and he would draw
near unto us.  Brother Bean also gave good
instructions on the storing of grain; advised
mothers to be careful of the children for the
powers of evil are abroad.  Brother Stringam
had been highly edified knew the spirit of God
was with us hoped we would remember the
instructions we had heard.  Brother Mansfield
knew the Relief Society formed an important
part in the Church, prayed God to bless us in
our labors.  Counselors M. H. Bullard and
Eliza G. C. Brinkahoff made some closing
remarks short but to the point.  Closed by
singing.  Benediction by Matthew W. Mansfield.
			SARAH C. MEEKS, President.
			BETSEY S. GOODWIN, Secretary.


Y. L. REUNION.

	Report of the reunion meeting of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Union Ward held June 17th,1889,
commencing at two p. m. Meeting opened
by singing, “All nature invites, etc." Prayer
by Bishop I. Phillips. Singing, “Improve
the shining moments,” etc. After which the
minutes of the last two meetings were read
and approved; roll called giving credit of four
officers and thirty-five members.
	Programme as follows: reading of the
manuscript paper by Lizzie Walker, it con-
tained some very interesting and instructive
contributions from the members of the associa-
tion; a letter from Sister M. A. Ball, was also
read by Lizzie Walker; song, Martha R.
Brady and Martha E. Cole; correspondence,
Laura Denney and Ann M. E. B. Evans;
organ solo, Annie Stone; recitation, Mary
Anderson; essay, M. A. Smart; select reading,
Emily Oborn; President Sarah Buxton then
spoke a short time. Song, Annie Montier;
recitation, Emma M. Burgan; recitation, Sarah
A. Brady.
	The speakers were Bishop I. Phillips, Coun-
selor M. H. Brady, John A. Barrett and
Brother Middleton. President Sarah Buxton
made a few closing remarks. Benediction by
Counselor M. H. Brady.
	Refreshments were next in order, including
strawberries and ice cream were then passed
around.
			ANN M. E. B. EVANS, Sec.


Mrs. Florence Howe Hall and Mrs. Maud
Howe Elliott have undertaken to write an
account of the life and education of their
father’s deaf, dumb and blind pupil, the late
Laura D. Bridgman. They will be glad to
receive any letters, papers, etc., relating to the
subject. Mrs. Hall's address is Scotch Plains,
N. J., and Mrs. Elliott’s, Newport, R. I.—Ex.
	As the WOMANS JOURNAL goes to press,
the monument to the Pilgrims is receiving its
dedication at Plymouth, Mass., with elaborate
ceremonies. But the best way to honor the
forefathers and foremothers would be to carry
out to their logical conclusion the fundamental
principles of a righteous commonwealth, and
to enfranchise that half of the population who
are still taxed without representation and gov-
erned without consent.—Ex. Aug 3, 1889.
	Mrs. Zerelda McCoy and other women are
circulating the following pledge among the
voters of Washington Territory-
	Whereas, The right to representation in the
government is a cardinal principle of American
Republicanism, and whereas the men of Wash-
ington Territory have on three separate oc-
casions enfranchised all citizens without dis-
crimination on account of sex; therefore
	Resolved, That we, the undersigned electors,
will refuse to vote for the ratification of the
new State Constitution, unless it contains a
provision conferring suffrage upon women
citizens on equal terms with men.


[Column 1]	
	CANCER CURE.

Dear Exponent,
	Thinking it would be interesting to your numerous read-
ers, I write a sketch of my experience with a cancer. I
was taken with shooting pains in my left breast, in a few
days I thought it was cancer. It proved to be a rose
cancer, I procured Cranberries, and had them pounded
into a poultice, which I applied twice a day. I sent for the
Elders, who administered to me and blessed me and
promised me I should get well by continuing the poultcs.
I had great faith in the ordinances. After the first application
I felt no more shooting pains, they all came to the s urfac
in pustule, in six weeks a raw place as large as a dime was
formed, around that came a blue spot as large as a half
[Column 2]
dollar. I continued the Cranberries and nothing else, it
commenced getting smaller untill it drawed all out in
pustule and white threads like spool cotton.
	The wound was entirely healed inside of three months.
During the time I was under the influence of the cancer I
passed my 70th birthday.
	I would mention that I at first drank a decoction made
of burdock and sourdock or yellowdock, with a very little
unslaked lime added, but this should be used with the
advice of those acquainted with its nature, and with the ut-
most caution.
							SARAH MERRILL.
		Brigham City,
July 23rd 1889.

UNION
PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,	J. V.	PARKER,
Gen. Pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short  notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
