Vol. 18 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1890			No. 21


CONTENTS.
	A Mind Picture,—M. A. M. Pratt.  Hephzibah.
Editorial Thoughts, From Manuscript Paper P.
A. Provo,—Sarah E. Cluff. Miscellaneous. An
Interesting Visit.— Josie E. Childs. Sister’s
Party at Beaver,—L. Jones. Notes and News.
R. S. Reports,—St. John’s—St. Joseph’s and
Salt Lake. Schools of Music,—Henry C. Post.
	EDITORIAL:—The Gospel at Home. Editorial
Notes. Woman’s Convention at Provo. L. D.
S. Womens’ Meeting. A Letter to an Aged
Sister in the Faith,—Mary Y. Corby.
	POETRY:—Spring’s Herald, E. T.  Over The
Hills,—L. M. Hewlings. Make Your Home
Beautiful,—Selected. Lines,—On the Death of
George Roy Miller,—L. M. Hewlings. Obituary
of Mrs. S. P. Jolley,—Jane Bailey.


SPRING’S HERALD.
This morning the Medlarks were singing;
Their welcome notes sweet promise bringing;
And our hearts were thrilled with their gladsome song;
For the time we forgot all sorrow and wrong, 
While their happy notes were ringing.

The winter has been so long and so drear;
With many a heart-ache and many a tear.
For shadows have fallen o'er many a home—	
And many dear ones have been laid in the tomb
Since the last Spring-time of the year.

Oh bonny bird! Should you lose your nest?
Or be left by those you love the best?
Should you feel the sting of injustice and wrong,
Would you still ring out your gladdening song?
Making us feel so blest.

Or, are you so sinless, so free from guile
That you can be happy all the while ?
Or, being pure have you perfect trust,
Knowing through all that God is just
And content in His care to rest?
									E. T.
March 16th 1890.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
		OVER THE HILLS.
Over the hills to a land far away,
	Far away from all sorrowing gloom,
From blight and disease, from mortal decay,
	To a spring-time of immortal bloom.
Over the hills, tired soul speed thy flight,
	To that glorious land of the blest,
Where day endeth not in darkness of night,
	Dangers never, intrude to molest.
Hunger and thirst are unknown in that land,
	Want cannot enter, sighing is o'er,
No cruel wrecks strew its glittering strands,
	Storm-waves beat not, nor loud billows roar.
Over the valley, the heights rise above,
	O, soul fear not the swift river's flow !
Over darkness shines ever His love,
	Bright'ning and cheering from depths below.
Over the hills in that endless domain
	There is a clear shining, crystal sea,
The blind receive sight, the halt and the main'd,
	Are made whole, and are evermore free.
Over the hills, from the Poor House, of earth,
	Into mansions of eternal rest,
Transported, renewed, in immortal birth
	And the sanctified realms of the blest.
Over the hills are father's and mother's,
	Whose absence, in dread sorrow was mourned,
Sisters, brothers, true-hearted lovers,
	Saved for aye, in a glorified home.


Shrink not from the vale, the hills are in view,
	Trust and believe; pass under the rod,
Grace shall be given thy strength to renew
	Over the hills, are the "Gardens of God."
							L. M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison Kan.


[Column 1]
		    A MIND PICTURE.
	As I commenced the journey of life, I saw
two roads, one led off to the right, the other to
the left. These roads met at the beginning
but as you advanced on them, they widened
and the farther you went on either of them
the more distant you were from the other.  So
distant your eye could not discern the opposite
one. As I looked where the two roads met,
there stood guides. The one on the right
was dressed in white apparel, his countenance
beamed with love and good will, he spoke to
the few that looked and were inclined to take
the right path, he smiled and in tones of sweet
accent he said to them fellow travelers pass on.
All this time at the left a dark figure stood
waving his wand for them to come his way.
Beyond where he stood looked dark and dreary
and they took no notice. I looked again to
see if any headed this dark one and the path
he stood on. The vision of my mind was
opened and I saw a great number of people
standing in the narrow passage where the
roads met. The guide in white raiment was
describing to them the great blessings, the
many joys, the happiness aud peace, and
eternal rest they would find as they traveled be-
yond to the right. Said he, pointing his
finger “that is the straight and narrow path
that leads to life eternal. Those who take
the first steps on this path and do not turn
back need never retrace them. There is a
tree growing by the road side, watered by
clear crystal streams of water that flow from
a heavenly fountain, that is called the tree of
life, and you can eat of the fruit and live for-
ever. As you walk steadily on the way, the
light of the holy spirit enlightens the path
whose brilliancy never becomes dim, and by
its light you walk on to eternal day."
	Some few seemed to doubt his word, they
stood and listened and were convinced and
passed on to the right. Then I saw multi-
tudes giving heed to the dark figure and press-
ing on the dark and misty broad road. Their
countenances bespoke a strong will and de-
termination not to heed the voice of the guide
clothed in white. Then he raised his voice so
that all could hear and in clear decisive tones
said, “if you take that dark and broad path to
the left you will soon get discouraged,there are
artificial lights on the way but dark passages
that have not a glimmer of light; the road, is
rough and rocky, thorns, thistles and briers
grow by the way, stagnant pools of water that
are not fit to drink you find there, you become
thirsty care-worn and you see no hope nor
any way to escape besetting evils or sudden
death.” I listened as they traveled on this
road and heard voices in the distant darkness
exclaiming, "Oh! why was I born and fated
to be thus perplexed, I see nothing but sorrow
and disappointment, I was born to misery and
woe.  Why could not I have been predesti-
nated to have peace and happiness, joy and
contentment, I have it not in this dark and
dreary world.” They murmured on, became
[Column 2]
more foolish, betook themselves to folly and
vice. Silence, was echoed in the ditance, as
Justice stood with a balance in his hand to
weigh the actions of men, said he, “the agency
of mankind is theirs and this makes them
responsible for their acts, he who instructed
you to take the right hand road you heeded
not, was it not your own fault when it was
placed within your reach, to choose good or
evil; you followed the dark guide through the
broad road that leads to destruction and gave
no heed to the guide on whose breast plate
was written Truth." Then I heard cries of
distress, weeping and wailing. Mercy stood
forth in their midst with outstretched arms to
lead the erring ones back to the right path,
but those who had gone on before them could
not be overtaken.
						M. A. M. PRATT.


HEPHZIBAH.
XVIII.
	The little schoolhouse shelter’d' neath a hill,
		And troops of children playing rouud the door; 
	A morn in June serene, and calm, and still:
		Sweet picture in fond mem’ry evermore.
	Hephzibah Hathaway went through the ex-
amination as she always did that sort of thing
with outward composure though her  heart
beat wildly and she fancied Mr. M. must hear
it; she trembled a little when he asked her to
write a line or two; that he might judge of
her penmanship and he added “anything you
like Miss Hathaway.” She recalled a copy given
her at school, that had made quite an impres-
sion upon her at the time, and she wrote with-
out a moment’s hesitation, “A man may smile
and smile and yet be a villain,” and handed
the paper to Mr. M. who smiled shrewdly as he
said, “why did you write that?” “It was the
first thing I thought of isn’t it correctly quot-
ed?” “Yes and it’s a true saying and one
all pretty girls should remember.” “I shall
never forget that copy” said Hepsie, “Nor the
lesson it teaches?” added the gentleman, “For
that I don’t know;” “I trust you will never
have a practical lesson on the subject” replied
the grave and scholarly man, and forthwith
proceeded without comment to write out the
certificate. All this time a tumult was going
on in Hepsie’s heart and head, for the quiet
demeanor of Mr. M. throughout the interview
left her in doubt as to the result. He moved
towards her and as she rose to meet him, he
handed the official paper, and said “My child
you are the youngest applicant for the situa-
tion of a teacher I have ever examined; but
I have no hesitation in saying you are quali-
fied for the position, and your courage is ex-
traordinary for one of your years.”
	Hepsie felt she was not so brave as Mr. M.
imagined, for she dare not look at the certifi-
cate until she was out of sight of the house
where she had undergone such a mental strain.
	A few minutes drive brought her to the gate of
a similar old farm house to the one she had
just left; spacious and embowered in shrubbery,
with great elm trees outside that reminded
her of those at her dear old grandfather’s and
the past came back to her with vivid force.
A very prim elderly lady came out to meet
her, with such a sweet face and a motherly
welcome which made her completely at ease.
“Poor child” she said “how delicate you do
look to come here to teach the rough country


boys and girls, many of them bigger than you,
and likely older." Mrs. Pearce meantime led
the way in through the open door and hall and
showed her the great, square room with the white
muslin curtains and a snowy counterpane on
the comfortable looking bed so homelike, but,
Hepsie paused on the threshold a moment and
gazed on the sanded floor—her detestation, it
always set her teeth on edge, the good lady
did not observe it, then she saw the fire-place
filled with fresh green boughs' and knowing
she would be expected to say something falter-
ingly said "how nice and fresh everything is, I
like an East room" "Yes" said the good lady
"Mr. Beamen told us you were a dainty
little piece and not used to farm folks like us,
and that you objected to boarding round, and 
he wanted us to watch over you, and see that
no “Mormons” came around here; for my part
I dont know nothin about Mormons or what
they,re like.” Hepsie wondered what she ought
to say but silence seemed the only way to avoid
questioning, and she manifested no interest
whatever, though her thoughts were busy with
conjectures as to what it all meant. Was she
then to be watched like a prisoner? she could 
not comprehend it. 
	She inquired the way to the schoolhouse
and Mrs P. offered to go with her. "I'll go 
down the hill and show you the way, the
children's waitin for you with great bunches
of roses and youngsters this long time."
	Hepsie was relieved when Mrs. P. “pinted
out” the little red schoolhouse and left her to
her own thoughts. The children flocked
around their new teacher with their sweet
"good mornings," and Hepsie entered upon
her new duties with a determination that what-
ever difficulties she might have to encounter,
she would persevere.
	Day after day she pursued her vocation,
and weary and exhausted with her toil to
which she was so unaccustomed, after return-
ing home she would throw herself down upon
the bed and weep, the only outlet she had for
nervousness and pent-up emotions. After rest-
ing a few moments she would wander away
into the beautiful meadows that adjoined the
grounds a part of the "Pearce Farm." The
good old people scarcely knew what to think
of her, "such fancies" the old lady would say
“even wanted me to take the sand off the floor
could’nt stand it, and as for victuals no mat-
ter what we have she only eats like a bird."
Such were some of the comments made to the
neighbors, part of which always reached Miss
Hathaway.
	It was a lonely place the families were
scattered there was no society for Hepsie, and
naturally enough she sauntered about in search
of wild flowers, and the songs of many birds
was the only music. Even on Sunday it was
five miles to the nearest meetinghouse, and
Hepsie did not care to hear the orthodox
minister after having heard the "Mormon
Elders." It was all so tame there was nothing
edifying or elevating in it. She prefered to 
sit in her own room and read, or write and to
take long walks alone; and Farmer Pearce and
his wife were not sectarians made no profess-
ion of religion, and never attended any place
of worship.
	It may well be imagined that a temperament
like Hepsie's could not long endure this mono-
tony, a reaction was bound to follow, she was
restless, teaching children their A. B. C’s or
Arithmetic, Grammar, Geography, Reading,
Writing, History and Composition, was not
enough to satisfy an ambition like Hepsie's.
She longed for something more, she had been
used to the companionship of others her equals
and her superiors, her sisters, her mother. Mrs.
Grovsenor and her former teachers had been
an incentive to her, and now she realized how 
much this association of intelligent people had
enriched her life; three months of drudgery, 
[Column 2]
she felt would be so long, how could she en-
dure it, yet she enjoyed the roses, and pinks,
and peonies and even the southern wood in the 
front yard, and the children brought her fresh
wild flowers every day, and the robins sang at
her windows every morning early. Those
were not the days of trains and daily mails,
and Hepsie did not even have the opportunity
of going home on Saturday; in fact there was
really no conveyance, yet she was only ten
miles away. She had never been allowed to
read novels, and all her ideas of love were very
crude, but for want of suitable employment for
the mind, or perhaps a presentiment of the
future, Hephzibah allowed her thoughts to
drift away into the realms of fancy and center
upon love, the girl actually needed some stimu-
lus for a brain like hers, that she could not
find in a country schoolhouse, and its being a
romantic spot, and the time of roses and of 
love she allowed her imagination to anticipate
the coming of a lover. At any rate he came.
It was much like a presentiment. The fields
were gay with lilies and daisies—buttercups
and cowslips besprinkled the meadows. The
groves were tuneful with the songs of birds all
day long and in the midsummer nights, the
whippoorwill and other night-birds made
melody. Fate held out open arms to respond
to the unconscious aspirations of the little
maiden, and while the roses were yet in bloom
and the hay lay fresh in the meadows, she met
him, whom she recognized intuitively to be
connected with her destiny. ’Twas strange,
'twas wonderful aud it was unavoidable. It
came about in such a queer way that poor un-
sophisticated confused Hephzibah could not tell
whether to be glad or sorry, whether it was true
love or only romance, no girl it seemed to her
had ever been wooed in such a fashion.
	Returning from school one hot, sultry
summer's day Farmer Pearce introduced to her
a young man "just from abroad" he said. In
shaking hands with him a peculiar emotion
such as the girl had never before experienced
thrilled through her like an electric shock, or a
warning, or presentiment, and to herself silently
she said "that man has something to do with
my future destiny, my fate."
	Had she avoided him, as she felt inclined to 
do, much deep sorrow might have been spared
her, but who knows if out of this crucible she
was not tested and prepared to enter upon a
higher and grander life-work. The young
people just introduced found many subjects of 
conversation equally interesting to both, and
they talked late into the night. The farmer
and his wife sat and listened as if enchanted.
The door was open toward the grove and the
night-birds sang their clearest, highest notes,
with occasionally a minor key a mournful
sound that seemed to Hephzibah like the note
of sadness mingled with the deepest joy;
Harold the stranger who was both poetical and 
musical in his nature involuntarily repeated
those exquisite lines of Byron’s which so many
lovers have quoted since,

	"It is the hour when from the boughs
	    The nightingale's high note is heard;
	It is the hour when lover's vows
	    Seem sweet in every whispered word."

	This was the first meeting of the young people
but it was most auspicious for Harold fell
desperately in love and did not hesitate to ask
when he could see Miss Hathaway again,before
they parted that midsummer night.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.
[MANUSCRIPT PAPER P. A. PROVO.]
	As I have been called upon by your presi-
dent to edit the first paper of this kind a feel-
ing of diffidence comes over me, and I feel to
ask the prayers and confidence of my sisters,


and the dear children, that I may be inspired
to read the true sentiments, of my dear sisters
in the spirit in which they were written, for
we know that the letter is dead unless inspired
by the spirit of God.
	When we reflect upon the strange surround-
ings in which we as a people are placed, we
can readily see that it is necessaey to be alive
to our duties, and not neglect a moment in
which we can improve our minds, and gain
more faith in our Heavenly Father, for what
occupation upon this earth is more pleasing to
him; is it not to bring souls unto Him? Then
can there be any labor more pleasant for a
daughter of Zion, than to train these beautiful
children, to remain pure and true, and to be
ever walking in the fear of God. I think not.
Sometimes we hear the Christian say that his
constant companion is his Holy Bible.  This
is well, but here we have children whose spirits
have come from that great God in whose image
they have been created, their souls are pure
their minds are free from deceit, therefore
should any one desire more interesting society
than that of children; they will ennoble our
souls, enlarge our hearts, and aid us in be-
coming perfect like unto the Gods.
	When reading the pride that some people
take in the different employment by which
they are trying, to excel their neighbor, and
become perfect, they will work night and day
and will not leave their work for the weather
to spoil, or the work of another hand to soil,
but toil on till their aim is attained. Do we
as Latterday Saints take such care and pride
with our children this sacred trust? Should we
leave our children one moment, without know-
ing their surroundings are pure. How can a
true parent enjoy any pursuit in this life, with-
out knowing his children to be fortified against
the sins which are imbibed by evil habits. Our
children are our eternal blessings. All other
earthly treasures may crumble to dust; but our
children’s souls are immortal, they are ours, if
we do our duty towards them and God.
						Sarah E. Cluff.


MISCELLANEOUS. 
	There are two freedoms—the false, where
man is free to do what he likes; the true,
where man is free to do what he ought.—
Kingsley.
	If you could once make up your mind
never to undertake more work of any sort
than you can carry on calmly, quietly without
hurry or flurry, and the instant you feel
yourself growing nervous, would stop and
take breath; you would find this simple,
common sense rule doing for you what no
prayers or tears ever could ever accomplish.
Elizabeth Prentiss.
	That part of life which we ordinarily under-
stand by the word conversation is an indulgence
to the sociable part of our make,  and should
incline us to bring our proportions of good will
or good humor among the friends we meet
with, and not to trouble them with relations
which must of necessity oblige them to a real
or feigned affliction. Cares, distresses, diseases,
uneasiness, and dislikes of our own are by no
means to be obtruded upon our friends. If
we would consider how little of this vicisitudes
of motion and rest, which we call life, is spent
with satisfaction, we should be more tender of
our friends than to bring them little sorrows
which do not belong to them. There is no real
life but cheerful life; therefore valetudinarians
should be sworn, before they enter into
company, not to say a word of themselves until
the meeting breaks up.—Spectatsor.


Eleven women are on the school boards of
ix cities in Norway.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MAKE YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL.

Make your home beautiful, bring to it flowers,
	Plant them around you to bud and to bloom;
Let them give light to your loneliest hours—
	Let them bring light to enliven your gloom;
If you can do so, oh, make it an Eden,
	Of beauty and gladness almost divine;
'Twill teach you for that home you are needing,
	The earth robed in beauty beyond this dark time.

Make home a hive, where all beautiful feelings
	Cluster like bees and their honey-dew bring;
Make it a temple of holy revealings,
	And love its bright angel with "shadowing wing."
Then shall it be, when afar on life's billows,
	Wherever your tempest-tossed children are flung.
They will long for the shades of the home weeping wil-
	lows,
And sing the sweet song which their mother had sung.
									—Selected.


LINES.
[ON THE DEATH OF GEORGE ROY MILLER]
	Inscribed to the bereaved parents by L. M.
Hewlings.
	We thought the precious one our own,
		Nor deemed the gift to us but lent;
	That thus we must be left to mourn,
		In grief to murmur and lament,
	The absence of our darling boy.
		Whose presence gave such glad delight,—
	Now, all is changed since our dear Roy,
		Has vanished from our yearning sight.

	We loved him as a human child,
		Given to us to keep and hold,
	Nor dreamed he must from earth depart,—
		Restored unto the upper fold.
	Vainly we watch and wait to greet
		Smiles that would make sad hearts rejoice,
	For the sound of pattering feet
		And the merry musical voice.
	We weep above the precious form,
		Laid in the bosom of the earth,
	We cannot trace the spirit born,
		Into the realms of heavenly birth.

	Look up sad mourners thro' your tears,
		Your Roy, has gone from sin and blight,
	Without the weight of weary years,
		He lives! an angel in God's sight.


[Column 1]
﻿AN INTERESTING VISIT.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I take this opportunity of informing you,
and our numerous readers, of the welfare and
general feeling of your sisters; and a synopsis
of our visit to the several wards of this Co.,
(Emery), hoping it may be interesting to you.
	As a new year is before us, and wishing to
make a good start in filling the requirements
made of us, and help others with words of
cheer, we left our homes Wednesday Jan. the
15th, traveling north by sleigh, the weather
was cold and clear, but thanks to our driver
who knew just how to make ladies comfortable,
(and here let me add in a Woman's Rights
man) we had an enjoyable ride, reaching
Huntington in time for supper, intending to
hold meeting there that night; but on account
of our notice not reaching its destination (a
case that frequently occurs), and as there was
to be a party that evening, of course we post-
poned our meeting. We decided to go on to
Price the next morning and hold a meeting at
that place, and meet with the sisters of Hunt-
ington on our return. We spent a very nice
evening at Sister Pulsipher’s, making prepara-
tions for the coming trip and hoping the morn
would be like the preceding one, According
to your faith so it shall be for,
[Column 2]

	“See! the night wears away and cheerful morn
	All sweet and fresh, spreads from the rosy east,
	Fair nature seems revived, and e'en my heart
	Sits light and jocund at the day's return."

	After a hasty breakfast we begin loading
ourselves with wraps, and when once again
ensconced in our sleigh our photo's if taken
would compare very favorable with the natives
of Lapland, the only thing lacking, we had
horses instead of reindeers, but we were com-
fortable and that was all that was needed.
Those who have traveled the road from Hunt-
ington to Price need no description of it,and I
do not think the writer would be able to give you
an intelligent description, for with her, locality
is at a very low ebb. After traveling over hill
and dale and occasionally a deep "wash" I at
last had the courage to ask if we were not near
our destination, imagine my surprise when I 
was met by the astonishing reply that we were
only half way, but as the longest lane has a 
turn, and as the sun was bidding the earth
adieu for the day we arrived at our destina-
tion. We found the sisters anxious to do all
that was required of them, and were met by a 
warm reception.
	Our return trip was some what tiresome but
we felt that we were on a mission of exhortation
and mercy,and although the weather was such as
to dampen the ardor under any other circum-
stances we enjoyed ourselves admirably; after
returning home we continued our trip south-
ward as far as Emery, (formerly known as the
Muddy) there we assisted in effecting the re-
organization of the Relief Society of that
place. In visiting among the sisters we im-
proved the opportunity of agitating the suff-
rage cause, and insisting upon all to become
acquainted with its great aim, also to patronize
the EXPONENT, and keep pace with the times.
	It takes courage to live, and if we are be-
hind both temporally and spiritually it makes
the struggle so much harder, but God is on
our side and if we do not attain to the rights
He intended and that the Constitution of this
Great Republic guaranteed we should enjoy,
we know that all the enemy can do will be
for the perfecting of Zion. Let us then draw
nearer together doing good, speaking an en-
couraging word to all who stand in need, and 
make for ourselves a record, helping to further
the purposes of our Father who sent us, and 
who holds the destiny of man in His hand.
And further more let me add, successs to the 
EXPONENT, may it enter many homes and
have power to allay prejudice, and show the
“Mormon” women in their true light to the
fair-minded women of the Nation, and if there
are any rights we do not enjoy, our husbands
feel it as keenly as we, for they believe in 
woman's advancement, and had they the power
the women of Utah would have the right of
franchise. Sisters let us rally to with renewed
energy, and pray that the sweet spirit of peace
may be in the Relief Society throughout all
the land, and do the good that our Father in-
tended. Wishing you all a year of peace and
happiness, I am yours in love.
					JOSIE E. CHILDS.
	Orangeville March 3rd 1890.


SISTER'S PARTY AT BEAVER.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Some of the sisters and a few of the brethren,
of this city,met in the Relief Society hall to
welcome our beloved and respected president,
Sister Lucinda Howd back in our midst once
more.
	She had been absent for several months
visiting her daughters on the Sevier and the
"surprise" was tendered as a slight token of
the respect and esteem in which she is held
by the community. The hall was beautifully
decorated with evergreens and pictures. On


the west wall was the word WELCOME in ever-
green letters arranged in a semicircle beneath
which hung the picture of the late Jane
Neyman first president of the R. S. in this
place.
	The presents were a beautiful ready made
dress and a splendid, large photograph album. 
Three long tables were spread with the good
things of the earth to which about eighty per-
sons did ample justice.
	The rest of the afternoon was taken up by a 
very enjoyable programme consisting of songs,
speeches, and recitations. The entertainment, 
which was a grand success, was a complete
"surprise" to Sister Howd and will long be
remembered by all of us. At the close a hearty
vote of thanks was tendered to the committee
who had contributed so much to the pleasure
of all present.
	Sister Howd was a member of the R. S.
organized by Joseph Smith the prophet, and
was in the first company that followed the
pioneers to the Valley. She was the third
president of the R. S. of this place and has
been our Stake President for ten years.
	Faithful and true to every duty that devolves
upon her, may she live to a green, old age,
and may we prove worthy successors to follow,
in her footsteps and emulate the example she
has always set before us.
	E. J. Bennett Stake Coun.
	L. Jones Stake Sec. Relief Society.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton has an article
on the divorce question in the current number
of the Arena.
	A bill giving school suffrage to women
been favorably reported in the Iowa House of
Representatives.			
	The Duchess of Albany, widow of Prince
Leopold, has just received her diploma as a
hospital nurse, after taking the regular course
and standing the usual examination.
	WHAT a sad commentary on the boasted 
chivalry of men was the dying statement of
Mrs. Grace C. Henderson. Three months
search for honest work—plenty of dishonorable
opportunities—then despair and suicide.
	The Women’s Exchange of San Francisco,
Cal., have created a building fund of $10,000
by which they propose to erect a building for
the work of the Exchange, and for a Reading,
Lecture and Waiting Room for women and
their interests.
	Seventy-four woman suffrage petitions have
been sent in to the Massachusetts Legislature
this year, signed by 2,908 women and 1,603
men; in all 4,511 citizens of the State over
twenty-one years of age, and residing in fifty-
three cities and towns.
	An interesting feature in the Jewish Messen-
ger, of March 7, is a symposium on the train-
ing of women, in which a number of thought-
ful American Jewesses take part. They plead
for the broadest and most thorough culture—
religious, intellectual and physical.
	STATES which desire a representation of
women on the World’s Fair Commission
should immediately, by organizations and by
individuals, petition the President to so appoint
Chicago, which promised such generous recog-
nition to women, should now speak with no un-
certain sound. From Wyoming, the Dakotas
and Kansas all such acts of chivalry and jus-
tice are expected, and any state would honor
its history by demanding that one of its commis-
ioners should be a women.
									Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.	
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	APRIL 1, 1890.


THE GOSPEL AT HOME.
	The city at the present time is thronged with
people, tourists in quest of curiosities, and infor-
mation, speculators in pursuit of gain and the
variety of kinds and sorts of people that make
up a great part of the multitude that throng the
streets and by-ways, and make one feel that this
is no longer the model city of the Saints, built in
the valleys of the mountains for them only, but
that all nations are flocking thereunto, in fulfill-
ment of prophecy, which is perfectly familiar to
those who study the Scriptures, but is sometimes
not remembered when one is absorbed in daily
duties. Does not the Bible say Zion shall be es-
tablished in the tops of the mountains and all
nations shall flow unto her? And yet some of us
complain when it begins to come to pass.
	During the last few weeks especially many
hundreds of visitors have come to Salt Lake and
have driven round in a carriage or wandered at
will here and there, and many have found their
way into the Office of the EXPONENT, and with
or without introduction have sought to open up
conversation on the subject of Utah, her politics,
the late election, the condition of the people and
the future prospects. Generally they are very
ignorant upon the matters they are so anxious to
discuss, although occasionally some are better
iuformed as relates to the settlement of these
valleys and the thrift and industry of the people
if not in regard to their religion.
	Many are quite unacquainted with the laws of
1882 and 1887 that have caused such a difference
in the circumstances of this people, and are sur-
prised when informed of facts connected with
what has been done in cases that have come be-
fore the courts and the decisions that have been
given. It is indeed true that intelligent people
of these United States even, taken as a whole
know comparatively little of Mormonism its
origin and history, and the Gospel which this
people have embraced, and for which they have
left their homes and possessions, and wandered
into the wilderness where they hoped to find that
peace and security that had been denied to them
within the limits of civilization.
	It may well be said this people have a history,
and as is often remarked a peculiar history; they
have been denominated a modern Israel and the
name is an appropriate and significant one. The
people of the earth are assuredly flocking to Zion;
they come singly and in large parties, and they
inquire concerning this and that, and there is a
good opportunity to give information on Gospel
subjects.  Everything pertaining to what is called
“Mormonism,” is more and more talked of day
by day, and surely this people have need of wis-
dom to meet all reasonable questions, and give
comprehensive answers in brief,to those who have
only a few minutes time in passing through, that


a good impression may be made, for truth is al-
ways strong; and if possible scatter a little of the
seed of the Gospel, praying that it may fall on
good ground. Thus a small portion of missionary
work may be done here at home as well as
abroad if we take this view of the matter. Men
who are now gone from our midst have
prophesied as the writer is well aware that the
highly educated people of the world should come
to the Saints for knowledge concerning this peo-
ple, and those who occupy high positions of
honor among the nations of the world, and this is
coming to pass, and there will be more of this
in the future.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The World's Fair, of 1892 will take place in the
United States to commemorate the discovery of
America. That the part taken by woman in this
discovery shall be more widely known and pro-
perly appreciated, the Queen Isabella Association
was duly incorporated on the 17th day of August,
1889, in accordance with the laws of the State of
Illinois. In pursuance of this object the Associa-
tion will erect a statue of Isabella of Castile, to
be unveiled at the Fair, and in recognition of
woman’s success in art, have engaged Harriet
Hosmer, the renowned Sculptor, to execute the
work. The Association will also erect the
Isabella Pavilion, in which will be a department
for the exposition of articles commemorative of
Isabella and the discovery of America; a repre-
sentation of the Spanish Court in the time of
Isabella and Ferdinand; and extensive Social
and Business Headquarters for the members of
the Association; thus will be furnished to the
women of all nations special opportunities for re-
ceiving one another socially, and for holding
Conferences on the Industrial and Social prob-
lems of the day, while each Trade, Occupation
and Profession represented in the membership of
the Association will hold one or more conferences
in the Congress Hall of the Pavilion. Every
facility for obtaining information necessary to the
comfort and convenience of visiting members will
be afforded during the fair.
	We have received by courtesy of the publishers
the Double Easter number of the Youth's Com-
panion, Boston, Mass. The writer remembers
with what pleasure when a little girl she received
regularly the Youth's Companion, when child-
ren's papers were very rare in the land. The
Youth's Companion was a very different affair to
what it is at present, but it cannot be more gladly
welcome now with its elaborate illustrations
than it was at that period in its simple form.
Such poetry and such stories "we girls" thought
them the best that could be written. This year's
Easter number is very appropriately embellished
outside with long stems of Easter lilies,and hand-
some pictures adorn the inside pages suited to
the stories and the occasion. The poems are
pure and chaste in style, and descriptive of Easter
subjects as are also the stories. The number is
beautiful in sentiment throughout as well as in
appearance. It is one of the journals of the day
that can be put into the hands of children with
safety. Its writers are among the very best, and
they aim at the cultivation of moral and intel-
lectual purity. "Numbered With Thy Saints,"
by Mary Tappan Wright. "One of the Squire's
Morning's," Laura E. Cushman. "Bim Hazlitt's
Luck," Sophie Swett. "Edith's Easter Offer-
ing," Ada Carleton; all deserve special mention,
and there are many other excellent articles. The
proprietors of the paper deserve great credit for
making the Companion so entertaining for the
Easter holidays.
	Through the courtesy of Dr. John R. Park we
have before us the "Report of the Chancellor of

[Column 2]

the University of Deseret," to the Governor and
Legislative Assembly of Utah. It is in pamphlet
form and contains 40 pages of matter, well ar-
ranged under appropriate headings and sufficiently
minute in detail to satisfy the most exacting. It
contains the reports of the Principals of the
various departments beginning with the Chan-
cellor's letter, the President himself gives a
succinct statement of the institution under the
following headings—Buildings,—Grounds,— De-
partment of Science, Literature and the Arts,—
Normal Department,—Preparatory Department,
—Music,—Art,—Deaf Mute Department,—Mines,
—Mechanic Arts,—Law,-—Library,— Museum,—
Apparatus, etc.— To summarize the financial
needs of the University the Dr. gives approxi-
mate estimates of the funds required. The Nor-
mal Department is definitely reported by its Prin-
cipal Wm. M. Stewart. Preparatory in the same
manner by J. H. Paul. Music Evan Stephens.
Art G. M. Ottinger. Mechanical and Architec-
tual drawing, Wm. Ward. Library Marcus E.
Jones, Librarian. Museum, Marcus E. Jones,
Curator. Custodian and Registrar, D. R. Allen.
Then follows a report of the number of students
for the last half of the Academic year 1887-1888
the year 1888-'89 and the first half of the year
1889-'90, together with the number in each branch
of study. Then the Deaf Mute Department is
specifically reported by the Principal Frank W.
Metcalf. It is a very interesting report as it re-
lates to a subject that every where must receive
special attention, and requires the best thoughts
of the people as well as the best methods of in-
struction,to bring it to the highest attainment pos-
sible and in harmony with other institutions. The
Secretary's Report including salaries etc., closes
the pamphlet. Great credit is due to the founders
of the Deseret University who labored under
such difficulties to establish it, and who helped to
carry it forward when the burden was a heavy
one. That it has been instrumental in a great de-
gree of educating the young people of the Terri-
tory all who are acquainted with facts regarding
the matter know full well. It is the ardent hope
of the writer, that the Deseret University may re-
ceive such substantial aid as will make it still
more helpful to the Territory, and reach the
height of excellence that its original founders an-
ticipated in the beginning of its history.


WOMAN’S CONVENTION AT PROVO.

	The Woman Suffrage Association of Utah Co.,
met in special session on Saturday March 1, at
10 a. m., to elect another President in conse-
quence of the decease of Mrs. M. J. Tanner late
President. Mrs. Electa Bullock First Vice Presi-
dent, in the chair. After singing and prayer be-
ing offered by the Chaplain Mrs. M. Daniels, re-
ports from the vice presidents of the several
towns in the county were heard, and were very
satisfactory indeed, each of the representatives
not only speaking well of the work done, but
proving themselves capable of magnifying the
position assigned to them. We have not space
to enter into detail but feel assured that Utah
County has some very able speakers, who have a
knowledge and appreciation of the subject and
know how to lay it before the public.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates resigned her position as
Secretary, and was nominated and unanimously
sustained as President of the W. S. A. Utah Co.
Mrs. Rebecca Doolan was appointed Secretary to
fill vacancy caused by Mrs. Gates resignation.
Some other business of minor importance was
transacted and Mrs. E. B. Wells gave some
special instruction and the convention adjourned
until 2 p.m. closing exercises,singing; and prayer
by the Chaplain.
	Afternoon session convened Mrs. Bullock still
occupying the chair. After the prayer &c., Mrs.


Lizzie Gillespie rend red in excellent voice and
style “The Star Spangled Banner.” Mrs. Lucy
B. Young spoke on the question of woman’s
rights, and hoped the day would speedily come
when all women including the women of Utah
should enjoy the elective franchise.
	Miss Mabel Thurman recited “Brave Jennie
McNeil,” in an easy and natural manner, and in
pleasing voice.
	Mrs. Caroline B. Pratt then read an address
written by the President Mrs. Tanner just prior
to her demise, which we give below in full.
	Grant Allen in the Fortnightly Review gives
a very pungent article on the woman question.
	He says “if any species or race deserves a con.
tinued existence, then above all other things it is
necessary that the species or race should go on
reproducing itself. Can any person possessing
the slightest claim to intelligent reasoning dispute
that fact. It is a fact above all facts most notably
established. He goes on to review the condi-
tions under which the human race must keep up
its numbers or become extinct, he counts the
children each woman must have in order to keep
the population at normal increase.”
	We are willing to go farther and recognize
God’s first law. When He placed Adam and Eve
on this planet He did not say to them “Now that
I have placed you here I wish you to keep up the
race, and not let the species run out; but He said
"Go forth, multiply, and replenish the earth and
subdue it.” This grand earth was before them to
replenish, that is to fill up and subdue. Here Is
work for man as well as woman. If woman must
replenish, man must subdue and their work was
given them side by side. It could not be sepa-
rated in the natural order of things. Nature has
prepared woman for the burden of maternity, and
man to subdue the earth and make it fruitful for
the support of her and her offspring.
	If things have got somewhat turned, whose
fault is it? Not woman alone, certainly. He
should be a little more lucid on that point and tell
us what it takes to de-feminize a woman. In
countries where she takes her place in the harvest
field or is yoked with the oxen to pull the plow she
is de-feminized? No doubt you will find here
those performing the functions of wife and mother
as well, and she is still not considered out of place
in helping to subdue the earth, but did she rise
up and demand her emancipation, asking for a
voice in the government where she might make
laws that weuld forbid her being yoked with the
beasts of burden, would that de-feminize her?
	Would it weaken the attention of thinking wo-
men from the true problem of their sex to fix it
on side issues of comparative unimportance? Can 
a woman not perceive the true aim of her sex
and pursue also the intellectual capacity her sex
is capable of attaining. He says that in raising
a few children every woman must use up ten or
twelve of the best years of her life. Now I would
say that for twenty or twenty-five of the best
years of a woman’s life she is capable under prop-
er conditions of bearing children. During that
twenty or twenty five years when her womanhood
is most complete and attractive is she capable of
no intellectual advancement? Must she exercise
no other function but the maternal one, and is re-
production the only attribute of the maternal
function? I would assert that it is not, that ma-
ternity demands the highest state of physical and
intellectual cultivation.”
	The above article was merely commenced,when
the writer was taken ill. Had she lived to finish
the article, she would no doubt have met all the
arguments brought forth by the gentleman re-
ferred to.
	Miss Dottie Smoot, sang “The Maid of the
Mill,” in a very happy manner, and in beautiful
voice.
	Prof. Karl G. Maeser addressed the audience
in a most pleasing way, taking the philosophical

[column 2]
view of the subject, thought it would require
great attention by thinking people to come to a
correct solution of the phenomenon. Woman
possessed noble traits of character and it is ex-
pected of her to refine, elevate and assist in re-
deeming man by her influence. The great men of
different ages trace their success back to the
mother’s influence, teaching and training. The
mother’s home duties must not be sacrificed even
to gain the highest attainments. The true
destiny of woman is to be an adviser, without this
safeguard man would be led astray, upon the
good influence and character of woman society
rests in safety. Such conditions cannot be taken
away in safety from any nation. Whenever there
is a great cause at stake and woman takes part in
it, her influence will be felt either for good or
evil.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was the next speaker, re-
ferred to the time when women held the elective
franchise in Utah and the educational effect it
produced, thought it right and proper that woman
should stand politically equal with man, gave her
views in regard to co-education and urged the
ladies to study the principles of government
thoroughly, that they might be prepared for the
practical use of the ballot with all the responsibil-
ity it implied when woman suffrage would be
given to the nation.
	Hon. A. O. Smoot gave an interesting account
of the passage of the Bill in the Legislature of
Utah giving suffrage to women. He had the
honor of being a champion of the bill, regretted
to say there was some opposition but it was
finally overcome, through the influence of such
men as his fellow members of the Legislature, the
Hon. Geo. A. Smith and the Hon. Daniel H.
Wells and himself.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates the President of the Asso-
ciation made a few remarks, expressed her appre-
ciation of the honor conferred upon her, alluded
to the position as a mission and felt she would
need the assistance of women and their husbands
in carrying out the methods of educational work
in the direction designed by the organization viz:
the study of municipal, territorial and state gov-
ernments. The topic to be discussed next meet-
ing by the several delegates was “Should women
exercise the elective franchise?” Adjourned sub-
ject to the call of the President. Singing, bene-
diction by Mrs. M. A. Gaddie.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


L. D. S. WOMENS' MEETING.

	The regular semi monthly meeting in the 14th
Ward Hall was held March I.  Mrs. M. I. Horne
presiding.  After the usual exercises including
reading of minutes, Pres. Horne invited Mrs. M.
A. Hyde to address the congregation; she spoke
upon the character of the times in which we are
living, the powerful influences working among
this people, the erection of Temples and great
work for the dead, alluded to prophecy and
urged the sisters to cultivate charity and every
good gift.
	Counselor E. Howard, spoke upon union,
watchfulness, the necessity of prayer and other
subjects of much interest.
	Dr. Pratt dwelt upon the cultivation of our
faculties, the exercise of charity and patience,
liked to hear Sister Hyde speak of her experience
at Nauvoo; thought we should not speak of each
other's faults but help one another and in this we
would be blest.
	Pres. Horne spoke a short time, said ours is
the Gospel of peace, we are stooping to conquer.
and must stand still and see the salvation of God.
Soon the Gospel will be taken from the Gentiles
and given to the Jews, then we shall see a nation
born in a day.  This people have been persecuted
ever since the Church was organized. Joseph
was weary of his life but his enemies had no


power over him until his mission was filled; she
said “I had the strongest testimony of this work
when I first shook hands with the Prophet Joseph
it thrilled me so that I shall not easily forget it.
Pres. Horne then presented the retiring secretary
Miss Smaley with a writing desk, donated by
the sisters in recognition of her services. Miss
Smaley thanked the sisters for their kindness in
a few well chosen words.
	Singing, "Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing.”
Benediction by Sister Peirson, adjourned for four
weeks as the Sisters Conference intervened.
					VILATE C. YOUNG, Sec.


A LETTER TO AN AGED SISTER IN
			THE FAITH.

DEAR SISTER:
	You ask me what I think of Isaiah 46—4th,
well, I think that to you and I, it is one of the
most precious promises contained in God’s word.
In this passage the Lord gives us positive proof
that it is not only the young, the energetic or
those who can accomplish the most (He is all
that such can need) but He knows that when we
begin to feel the weight of years, when our energy
flags and our spirits sink and we wonder how it
will be with us when we get too infirm to manage
for ourselves, when “the years draw nigh that we
shall say—I have no pleasure in them”—“when
the almond tree shall flourish and the grass-
hopper shall be a burden,” when the “Silver
cord is ready to be loosed and the golden bowl
broken,” He knows that then, we need special
help and special encouragement and therefore
He says—“Even to old age I am He;” what
does He mean by that, but that He is the same
God that He always has been? From before the
foundation of the world He has chosen us to
come upon this earth in these latter days to per-
form the work He has assigned us, and from the
time we drew our first breath-He has watched
over us and provided for us, and He is an un-
changeable God—He does not mean that we
shall be left to ourselves just when we most need
His help, but He says—“Even to your old age I
am He”—the same God,  "the same yesterday, to
day and forever.”
	But notwithstanding these words of encourage-
ment, our faith is sometimes ready to fail and we
have to cry out with Peter “Lord save me.” And
then He comes to us with these precious words
of promise, “Even to hoary hairs will I carry
you.” Oh what condescension on the part of our
Heavenly Father to promise us that when we can-
not go by ourselves, He will “carry” us. And as
though He would reason with us in our weakness
He says, “I have made, and I will bear;” as much
as to say—Do you think that I have made you
and sent you upon this earth and provided for
you and watched over you all these years for no
other purpose than for you to end your days in
despair? No, your soul is precious in my sight
and I cannot afford that one made in my image
and has faithfully served me shall be cast away;
and He further assures us by placing a double
emphasis upon the promise and He again declares
“I will even carry and deliver you.”
	Now dear sister can you imagine anything
more encouraging, more condescending on the
part of our Heavenly Father? We know how
tenderly an earthly parent will carry the helpless
infant, or the sick child who through suffering has
not sufficient strength left to walk alone, and the
tenderness of our Heavenly Father far exceeds
that of an earthly parent. We who have lived
the allotted time for man upon this earth, know
what it is to have our sensitive feelings wounded
by the thoughtlessness of the young, the giddy
and the gay, who are so apt to think the aged of
but little consequence, and we are often driven to
the footstool of our Father to ask Him for


patience to bear all we meet with in our path
through life.  And when we go to Him weary of
the world and everything in it, does He spurn us
from His presence? No, He does not.  Does
He tell us to come at a more convenient season?
No, but He rather says—Let your heart be strong
my child—“Fear not I am with thee, I will
strengthen thee.” ‘ Wait thou only upon God.” And
when your strength utterly fails, “I will carry you
and deliver you.”
	Well dear sister, old age has to bear with much
that is painful, but I question whether those who
are grasping after the world and its doubtful satis-
faction, can know one tenth of the blessedness of
those hidden lives that are quietly but sincerely
serving God and who will at last be “brought
home as a shock of corn fully ripe,” to the
heavenly garner.
	We are, as you say, very imperfect, neverthe-
less let us keep fast hold of the “Rod of Iron”
which leads to the “Tree of Life,” and then shall
we be able to lay claim to the blessings promised
to the faithful.
	Let our prayer be “Now also when I am old
and gray headed, O, God forsake me not."  We
are safe in His hands for this God is our God
for ever and ever, He will be our guide even
unto death.”  There is light beyond.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
						MARY Y. CORBY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

ST. JOHN'S STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the St.
John's Stake held at St. Johns Mar. 7, 1890.
On the stand were Apostles J. H. Smith and
F. M. Lyman, the Stake Presidency, the Presi-
dent of the branches of the Relief Society of
the Stake and one Counselor. Pres. E L. S.
Udall announced the hymn and the congrega-
tion sang, "We thank Thee O, God for a
Prophet." After prayer was offered and
another hymn sung Pres E. L. S. Udall made
some opening remarks expressing gratitude for
the privilege of meeting in conference again,
but regretted not having an opportunity of
visiting the branches in all the wards since our
last conference, and referred briefly to the
great amount of sickness in this part of the
Lord's vineyard during the past few months.
	Reports were read by the Secretary, officers
of the Central Board and Stake presented and
unanimously sustained.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman spoke at considerable
length instructing the Saints on a variety of
subjects among which were, that the Pres. of
the Stake should see that there is a way pro-
vided whereby the presidency of the R. S. can
visit each local Society in the Stake. For
what purpose the Relief Society was organi-
zed. The word of wisdom was earnestly ad-
vocated as a means of promoting health and
happiness also of lengthening life. Speaking
of labor he said: "man and woman should
avoid overwork and heavy lifting but the man
who earns his bread by the sweat of his brow
is the happiest of all men and the woman who
performs the labor God designed for her is the
happiest of all women.
	Apostle J. H. Smith in his remarks said:
"the object of life is to learn to live. We hope
to live eternally therefore we should seek to
make our lives as happy as possible and diffuse
happiness among our associates. Some seem
to be continually miserable and wish to make
every one around them the same. In the be-
ginning God ordained that man should earn
his bread by the sweat of his brow. He un-
derstood that labor was essential to happiness.
It the mind is not engaged with the responsi-
bilities of life the effect is disastrous, man will
become vicious. "The idle brain is the devil's
workshop." In the early days of this Church

[Column 2]

there was a law that the idler should be dealt
with so there should be none idle among the
people. The more man is permitted to waste
his time the greater amount of evil will be in
his heart, and God designed that we should
shun the vices of the world that we may have
long life and be useful.
	Conference adjourned for six months. Con-
gregation sang, "The spirit of God like a fire
is burning." Benediction by Pres. D. K.
Udall.
		MARY E. B. FARR, Sec.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Minutes of a Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake, which con-
vened at Pima, Sunday, Feb. 23rd 1890, at 10
a. m. Pres. Wilmerth East presiding.
	Stake Pres. C. Layton and Coun. Wm.
Johnson were present. Meeting opened by
singing, "Lord we come before Thee now."
Prayer offered by Bishop Joseph Cluff of
Central Ward. Singing "Let Zion in her
beauty rise." Pres. East made a few opening
remarks expressing her pleasure in meeting in
Relief Society Conference. Was sorry to report
so much sickness in the ward, and encouraged
the sisters in attending to the sick that none
might suffer.
	Minutes of the previous conference were
read and approved, after which Coun. Mary
L. Ransom spoke a short time on the duties of
the sisters in caring for the sick. Knew from
personal observation that our aged and worthy
leader Elizabeth Burns, in connection with
her Counselors, had labored diligently, when
not detained at home with sickness in their
own families, to relieve the wants of those
afflicted. Sister Ransom's greatest mission
was in properly clothing the dead and prepar-
ing them to be laid away.
	Pres. Layton said: "I am thankful for the
favorable circumstances by which we are sur-
rounded. Although the attendance is small I
feel there is a reasonable excuse." Believed
the sisters had done their duty in caring for
the sick, and should there be any censure
upon them let it be spedily removed; and God
will continue to bless them as He has in the
past. We must bow the knee and serve the
Lord with a full determination to do His bid-
ding, that we may be worthy of His blessings.
There are those among us who, when in health
forget their God, yet they expect the same
blessing and protecting care in the hours of
adversity, as those who fear Him and keep His
commandments. This Gospel is no fable
neither the Relief Society. The duties resting
upon the sisters in these organizations are
many, and I know they are diligent in their
labors. Prayed that they might continue so
and that the sickness and disease might be
stayed in our midst. Singing "Oh my
Father." Prayer by Coun. Wm. Johnson.
	Afternoon services resumed at 1 o'clock with
the usual opening exercises of singing and
prayer. A very interesting and instructive
letter from Stake Coun. Cyrena Merrill, who
resides at St. David, was read by the Secre-
tary. The stake and local reports were also
read, after which the following branches of
the R. S. were verbally reported by their re-
spective officers, Thatcher, Layton, Central
and Pima. Each bearing a faithful testimony
to the divinity of the Gospel, and expressed a
willingness to perform the labors assigned
them. Four others were not reported.
	Pres. East said, "If we do not cultivate the
spirit of the Gospel, how can we impart the
same unto our children, who have chosen to
come here to receive this training in order to
prepare them for an inheritance in the king-
dom of God, and to develop the faith in their
young and tender minds." Prayed that the
power of God might rest down upon us in

[Column 3]

full abundance and stay the plagues and
disease in our midst.
	Sister Rhoda Foster spoke a short time ad-
vancing many subjects of interest which, in
their nature, were calculated to encourage us
in keeping the covenants we have made.
	Coun. Elizabeth Layton of Thatcher Ward,
said she felt as well or better in the principles
of the Gospel to day than ever. Her desire
was to live in such a way as to be able to
rear her children to become honorable mem-
bers in the Church. Implored the blessings
of heaven upon us.
	Coun. Wm. Johnson was thankful to know
there were those who still had a desire to
keep the commandments of God, and stand
firm in the principles of their most holy re-
ligion. We believe in the day spoken of by
the Prophets of old, when sickness, disease and
plagues shall be scattered broadcast among
us. We should therefore, see the necessity of
living near unto the Lord that we may claim
protection at His hands. The time is now at
hand when the dividing line will be drawn and
the hypocrits and traitors in Zion will be
known.
	Pres. Layton exhorted the Presidents of the
different branches of the Relief Society in the
Stake to be alive to their duties, care for the
sick and distressed in Zion, and seek first the
kingdom of God and all else will be added.
Invoked the blessings of God upon all.
	The names of the Stake and Local officers
were presented before the conference and
unanimously sustained. Conference adjourned
for three months the place of meeting to be
here after designated. The congregation arose
and sang Doxology. Prayer by Coun. Wm.
Johnson.
		L. GUSTAFISON, Sec.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Stake was held in the
14th Ward Hall Thursday, March 13, 1890,
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. Her Counselor
Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Mrs. E. Howard Secretary,
and Mrs. B. W. Smith Treasurer of the Stake
organization were on the stand. Conference
opened by singing "Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah," prayer by Coun.
E. S. Taylor, singing "When time shall be no
more." Roll called, Presidents and Counselors
responded, minutes of previous Conference
were read and approved. Reports from the
several branches in the Stake and also the
complete Stake totals were read by the Secre-
tary.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith made the opening speech
said these are good times to serve the Lord,
pay attention to the counsel we receive and put
it in practise and we shall come off conquerors;
do good to the needy and afflicted it gives
much joy. The teachers should be faithful
and persevere in looking after those in want.
	Pres. Horne was glad of the improvement
in the reports."pleased that the branches many
of them have remembered the Hospital,we had
hoped to have a building of our own before
now, but the government has robbed us as a
people of our property and it will be hard to
tell when there will be a change. Let us con-
tinue to store up grain, we may be ridiculed
but if we read the Scriptures, we know a
famine is coming, and we will see the day we
shall be glad we have wheat on hand; mothers
should teach their little ones to be careful of
the bread do not allow them to waste it, nor,
give them more than they can eat; it is im-
portant that we should be careful of every-
thing the Lord has blessed us with "Wilful
waste makes woful want." We are steward
over what the Lord has lent us, therefore, w
shall be held accountable for wasting ou
means. The Lord has blessed our efforts since


[Column 1]

we came to these valleys, let us be wise and ap-
preciate our father's kindness, He is our
friend, let us continually seek for wisdom that
we may do right.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor, "we have a perfect right
to live our religion every day. President
Young told us to trade with our co-religionists,
how have we kept that counsel? We have put
money in the hands of men in this city to use
to our injury. The Lord is trying us, let us
examine ourselves and ask are we doing any-
thing to cause us to be brought into bondage.
I am afraid I have not much charity for those
who boast so much of what they are going to
do. They give us who came here and made
the country no credit, for anything, we have
all labored hard for what we have, now they
boast they are going to rob us of all they can,
let us pray for charity. Conference adjourned
to 2 p. m. with singing "The time is far
spent." and a benediction by Mrs. E. Barton.
	Afternoon session. singing "O, Jesus the
giver of all we enjoy," prayer by Mrs. E.
Howard, singing "O, say what is truth," the
secretary then read the following address:
	To my sisters of the Relief Society. Not
being privileged to meet with you, my health
suffering somewhat from the wintry weather, I
thought a few words in this silent way would
be better than none at all. My heart and de-
sires are with those whose aims are for the up-
building of the kingdom of God, to benefit
one another, to feed, clothe and comfort the
needy in a tangible form. The widow and the
fatherless, and the sick and afflicted who may
be thrown upon the charity of others, by cir-
cumstances over which they had no control,
should cause the more favored ones to over-
flow with gratitude, and to remember those
who are being tried in their turn as many of
us have been in days gone by, and being per-
haps, more keenly tried in this day—being both
proud and sensitive—with the difference that
is marked between the poor and many of the
rich and prosperous. The excellent discourse
delivered by President George Q. Cannon Feb.
23rd, he closes with some of the words of
King Benjamin that would be profitable for
us all to act upon. As President Cannon said
"we come far from reaching the standard that
God has held up for us We are not as self-
sacrificing as we should be. We do not love
our neighbors as we should do. In our
struggles we think little of those that are
weaker than ourselves, that have not the
ability that we have, and we pass them in the
race, and frequently we jostle them out of the
track." As he says "there is too much of this
among us." But the Lord has never stopped
His ears to the cries of the humble, and they
can look to Him and find sympathy and
succor in the hour of trouble, no matter what
position they may be placed in while in this
probation they have the consoling words of the
Lord of Hosts that He is no respecter of persons.
This is a day in which He is testing His
people, and it is for us to watch as well as pray
that we walk not in darkness at noonday. It
is a time when we need to read His command-
ments given through the Prophet Joseph for
our guidance.
	(The time seems upon us in which the Saints
are to be tried with wealth. And things that
I see transpiring remind me, in some particu-
lars, of the few days of seeming prosperity of
the Church at Kirtland But those whose
eyes can be dazzled by gold, or the glittering
tinsels that Mammon holds out, till they lose
sight of the greater riches just within our
grasp that cannot perish, and, as it were, sell
their birthright for a bowl of pottage, will be
thus fulfilling a prediction. My father (Heber
C. Kimball) was frequently heard to say that
he dreaded the day that this people were to
be tried with riches, more than all the poverty

[Column 2]

and persecution that could befall them. But
we must all have opportunities to be proven.)
	The word of the Lord is what we should
heed. He said to the Saints June 1st 1833, at
Kirtland "Verily, thus saith the Lord unto
you, whom I love, and whom I love I also
chasten, that their sins may be forgiven, for
with the chastisement I prepare a way for
their deliverance in all things out of tempta-
tion, and I have loved you. Therefore ye must 
needs be chastened and stand rebuked before
my face." The remainder my sisters can read
at their leisure. The Lord calls many but they
are not all chosen. His words to the Saints
then are as applicable to day. The Lord has
suffered our foes to prevail against us "but
fear them not," He says, "for they are as grass,
and all their glory as the flower thereof which
soon falleth."
	I do not see it as some do, that we should
yield up the city, sell our inheritances, and
seek homes in other quarters without a stronger
reason than the threats of men to tax us till
we will be compelled to leave. Many will
have to bend to this pressure, but the spirit of
speculation should not get the better of our
judgment. But whatever comes we may be
assured that the Lord is making use of the
tools, and materials in various forms that are
presenting themselves. All will help to push
the great work upward and onward to its
grand and glorious destiny, and this is worth
our battling for. If this people were to leave
here prosperity and progress would cease as it
did in every place that they settled in the states
and were driven from. Every move that has
been made to destroy this work has turned out
to the accomplishment of some mighty purpose.
The Lord is working out the salvation of
Israel, but these things are hidden from the
wicked. That His wisdom may guide our feet
is the sincere desire of your sister.
		HELEN M. WHITNEY.
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox Cor. Sec. of the Stake
bore a strong testimony to the truth and al-
luded to the benefit of the Sisters' organiza-
tions.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball "I am very happy to
see your faces once more in a Relief Society
capacity. I have traveled more than 6,000
miles since I met with you here. I have felt
and realized that we were sustained by the
faith and prayers of our sisters at home; there
are many trying to do good but there are none
that have the truth to lead them as we have.
I went to Washington as a suffragist and I
made them feel it was none of their business
what church we belong to. I think the in-
terest of the suffragists are the same as the
Relief Society and one with the other are
helps to woman. I attended the Episcopal
Church there I heard not one word of salva-
tion or who Jesus is. They know nothing
about what we rejoice in. One of the best
discourses I heard was from a woman. Those
with whom we conversed had a feeling that we
had something they had not. Let us have no
feeling of bigotry, we ought not to cherish any-
thing of the kind. We should have an influ-
ence to bless mankind and let our influence
be for good and doing good to all we can."
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark spoke a short time and
referred to mothers whose sons are upon mis-
sions and the exercise of faith in God and said
many good things.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. Howard, Coun.
E. S. Taylor and Pres. Horne each made suit-
able remarks containing many valuable sug-
gestions and full of instruction to mothers and
to all who are laboring in the best interests of
the Relief Society and the uplifting of
humanity.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
singing "When shall we all meet again," bene-
diction by Mrs. Diana Reid.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SCHOOLS OF MUSIC.

	The evil which appears most liable to develop
out of the modern tendency is a demand for an
imitation of nature—a thing incompatible with
the highest aspiration of art. There is not a
great composer who has not at some time been
tempted to indulge in this tendency. For ex-
ample, Haydn’s imitation of the crowing rooster;
Beethoven’s cuckoo, quail, and nightingale,
and his programme style in the "Pastoral
symphony;" and Mendelssohn’s braying donkey
in the "Midsummer Night's Dream." But
these solitary instances of materialism, although
to be condemned in theory, and exhibiting a
tendency which was in general condemned by
these composers themselves, would make good
and beautiful music anyway, even to persons
who had never heard a cuckoo or a donkey.
Of course we enjoy whatever is beautiful
music, no matter what atrocious names may
be given to the composition in question. It
need not be necessarily highstrung and
philosophical to be enjoyed.
	Many a Strauss waltz is thoroughly enjoyable,
even if Strauss was not very high up in the 
scale of renned or profound musical thought.
Such a waltz as the “Blue Danube” or “Artist’s
Life,” is enjoyable to the best musical taste,
when considered in its proper sense; that is
not in the least intellectual or thoughtful, but
pleasing witn its rhythmical beat and suggest-
tion of the dance. But although to a musical 
mind, and a healthy body, this kind of music
fills a certain place, still it is not elevating.
	The worst class of music against which we
have to defend ourselves is that vulgar,
realistic kind of composition, of which we see
so much written for the piano. The thunder-
storm piece, in which the listener is told that
a certain horrible jargon of ear-splitting dis-
sonance on the long brass wires is the thunder,
and that those meaningless, tinkling notes on
the short wires represent drops of rain on the
roof, while the sickly sentimental melody at the
end is the beautiful rainbow. Then there is
the battle piece, like the "Battle or Prague,"
which used to be the climax of musical educa-
tion in many of our boarding schools for young
ladies. But a mere listener to this phantasma-
goria will be of more benefit, and will do more
to elucidate its character than could an entire
essay on the subject. The difficulty lies in our
mistaking the province of music, which does
not treat of length, breadth, or thickness,
weight and color, and never can give an imi-
tation or reproduction of objects and things in
nature and every-day life. Even the most
aggressive romanticist will not do more thau
try to rival the poet in expression of feeling and 
passion. He will seek strange harmonies, inter-
rupted melodies, violent modulations and unpre-
pared transitions in order to express ecstasy,
fear, despair. He may attempt, like Wagner,
to intoxicate us with a crash of trumpets or
drive us to despair with the roll of a muffled
drum. But, though this kind of composition
satisfies the most sensitive and musically intel-
lectual hearer, and may astonish or frighten the
most unmusical, still it does not escape the re-
proach or criticism of offending the ear, that
is, the purely musical ear, considered as enjoy-
ing by itself alone, and not alloiwng head and
heart to take part in the enjoyment.
	But that music which has to be labeled and
plastered over with directions as to how it
must be shaken and taken, is not music at all.
When an individual's pleasure in listening de-
pends on the closeness of imitation to thunder
and lightning, or a battle with the Sioux, or
some particular babbling brook with two perch
swimming in its clear waters, then that man
may be said to have no music in his soul how-
ever fit he may be for anything else.
	If much of this so-called programme music,
or prescription music, could be labeled with a


[Column 1]

skull and crossbones, it would be at least pro-
fessional courtesy. Now, in literature and
painting every one of any education and in-
telligence recognizes such clap-trap, and loses
no time in discrimination; but how different is
the case as regards music!
	The great leader of the present and latest
development in musical art is Richard Wagner.
His music may be called realistic, but only so
because he chooses to accomplish his end, the
most profound pleasure, through the employ-
ment of real means. Quoting from his own
words: "The goal of the united efforts of three
types of artist, the poet, the musical composer,
and the actor, can only be a work of art made
positively real to the senses by a life-like pre-
sentation; in short, a work of art that, as com-
pared to the only one now known, shall be in
truth the art work of the future. And until
it has become fully living and real, we have
not reached our goal." It must be with Wagner
that same tendency for employing realistic
means, fitted to the scientific and practical spirit
of the times, that we see in many of the masters
of fiction at the present time. The same
realism and science of the times in Germany
is embodied in the poetry and prose of Sheffel,
Freytag, and the so-called professor novels of
Ebers, full of almost too much learning. But
more particularly do the novels of George
Eliot and Tolstoi illustrate this tendency to
employ natural living scenes from our every-
day life, for the purpose of presenting the
highest artistic ideas. It is, of course, impossi-
ble to make any comparison whatever between
the writers of literature and composers of
music. From the point of view taken by the
romanticists one might say that our better
emotions and sympathies are approached by
or through a certain imitation, or better, sug-
gestion of real natural truths and circumstan-
ces in human life and existence. And, while
this can be done readily enough in literature,
in music it is a different matter. Music can
only approach our souls or appeal to our emo-
tions through the imagination, and in this ca-
pacity, as already remarked, it can never give
dimensions, data, and fact without losing its
distinctive claims to the character of pure
music. In one or two particulars Wagner
and Tolstoi, as types of realism, appear to my
mind as similar. Tolstoi has a great purpose
in view—a picture of truth to delineate,
which he does by means of an endless amount
of descriptive detail, of the most intensely
commonplace and uninteresting kind, and
Wagner claims to have the same high artistic
purpose—no frivolity, no levity—only the most
weighty, intellectual pleasure, like the pleasure
in listening to high tragedy. He accomplishes
this, too, by a great detail of description, but
this means of description is not always music
even to musicians, any more than Tolstoi's in-
terminable and aimless details are always litera-
ture to litterateurs. There are interspersed in
Wagner's operas the most beautiful, penetrat-
ing, and often almost sensuous melodies; but,
musically speaking, there is more that becomes
merely descriptive. When he paints a giant
with his orchestrations, or a villian, the music
is inharmonious and offends us. When he
shows us the Niebelungen working underground
carrying loads of oar on their shoulders, the
effort becoms nearly as trying for the listener
as for the dwarfs themselves. The "motif"
of the Walkuere, or warrior goddesses, is not
music, and the "Walkurenritt," of ride of
these Amazons, although fascinating to music
cians, is more dramatic—is merely a realisti-
picture in music of this ride. In other scenes
in Wagner's operas, like the "Spring Night,"
the "Bird's Song," or the fire music (all in the
Trilogy), and even in whole operas, like the
Meistersinger von Nuernburg the music is so
beautiful that it is in itself alone, absolutely
unsurpassed in the history of the art. It is in

[Column 2]

the Trilogy. The ring of the "Neibelungs"(oc-
cuping four long evenings for its presentation)
in which Wagner carries his ideas and methods
so far, is most difficult even for musicians to
understand. His operatic writings are, upon
the whole, the most remarkable the world has
ever witnessed, and have had the greatest in-
fluence upon the musical taste of modern stu-
dents and real lovers of music. This influence
exhibits a tendency almost to obliterate, by its
high coloring, brilliancy, and dramatic power,
a great deal of the good but more moderate
music that has preceded it. Wagner has cer-
tainly created works of wonderful and original
beauty; many have done the same thing before
him and others will undoubtedly accomplish as
much in the future. The beauty of his works
is totally different from the imagination and
grandeur of Beethoven, or the more formal
beauties of Mozart. But the best critical stu-
dents can never claim that it is superior either
to one or to the other, comparison being an
impossibility in original artistic production.
Probably there is no such thing as progress,
and what we ordinarily term progress is simply
change or rotation, and "there is nothing new
under the sun." Certainly it is a more optim-
istic plan to hope for new lights in the history
of art. History may not repeat itself. But
Shakespeare has filled his place. Raphael and
Michael Angelo created for their time what
never could be inspired in the struggle and
progress of our modern civilization. That there
is relief in the present and future of musical
composition we may infer from the "creed" of
Hans von Bulow; "I beleive in Bach the
Father, Beethoven the Son, and Brahms the
Holy Ghost in music." Time alone will de-
termine whether Brahms has written Beet-
hoven's "tenth Symphony,"or whether
Wagner is a hundred years before his time.
Ex.		—Henry C. Post.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OBITUARY.

	Died at Moroni Sanpete Co. Nov. 9th Sarah Pippin
Jolley, wife of Reuben Manning Jolley. Deceased was
born May 9th 1812, in North Carolina. Moved with her
parents to Tennessee, Weekly Co. In 1842 the Gospel
was carried to them by Elder Clapp and others. They re-
ceived the Gospel message, and with a family of five child-
ren emigrated to Nauvoo, Hancock Co. Ill They were
living there at the time of the martyrdom of the Prophet
Joseph and Hyrum Smith; were driven with the Saints
from their homes, and started for the Rocky Mountains
but were advised to remain on the other side of the Missouri
River on account of the delicate health of the family. It
was at this place April 29th, 1849 that Reuben Jolley be-
came a victim to death through the hardships and exposure
with which they passed. Now Sister Jolley was a widow
with ten children. Brothey Jolley told his wife to continue
the journey and follow the Church. After laying her hus-
band away and marking the place with a beautiful head-
stone; she started with her children once more for the
West, and came that season to Council Bluffs, and the next
year 1850 came to Salt Lake with all her children except-
ing one son who married and remained behind. After she
arrived in Utah she struggled hard to make her family com-
fortable, and passed through many trials.
	There are eight children and over two hundred grand-
children and great-grand-children left to mourn her loss.
	Sister Jolley was one of the first members of the Relief
Society labored as a teacher and for many years as a
Counselor to Pres. Jane Bailey. She was also a Sunday
School teacher for years. She was an excellent nurse
among the sick. Sister Jolley spent her her life in useful-
ness and has worked considerably in the Temple for the
dead. May she rest in peace.
	It is a late hour for having her death published but we
hope to be excused as it was impossible to get her biography
sooner.	
							JANE BAILEY, Pres. R. S.
							DEBORAH IRONS, Coun.
							MARY H. DRAPER, Sec.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIP
Will commence her next
OBSTETRIC CLASS,
APRIL 15th, 1890.
	Parties wishing to join the class will please commu-
nicate with me as to books, terms, etc., immediately. 
	Address: 16 Main St., Salt Lake City.
{Picture of Union Pacific badge}
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
-AT-	
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
J. V. PARKER,
Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House. 
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
