Vol. 18.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1889.		No. 14


CONTENTS.
	Otillia—A Christmas  Story.—Augusta Joyce
Crocheron.  Old Age.—Mary Corby. Emma—
A Thanksgiving Story.—A. W. C. . An Open
Letter to my Friends.—Zina Y. Card.  Schools of
Music.  The Mouse in the Pantry.  A Voice from
Mesa City.—Sarah.
	EDITORIAL—Holiday Thoughts. Editorial
Notes.  The Fairy Mother.  Lucy Webb Hayes
Association.
	POETRY:—The Best Christmas.—Lu Dalton.
A Thought.—Lysle De Vaux. Birthday—To E.
C. F.—From Sister Lu.  Christmas Eve.—
Augusta Joyce Crocheron.  A Hundred Years to
Come.


[Column 1]
		﻿THE BEST CHRISTMAS.

"Mamma and Papa, oh, do wake us!" they cried,
	And let us go with you, do, please!"
And the dear dew-bright eyes, with eagerness wide,
	Gave emphasis double to "Please."
And the cunning wee diplomats offered a bribe
	Of kisses and hugs from their store,
Enveloped in promises, duly inscribed
	And sealed, to be good evermore.

These infant detectives had fairly surprised
	A wondrous intrigue in the house
Their elders were thinking they had not surmised;
	Which was of this pleading the cause.
The darling old grandparents over the way,
	So loving, and patient and sweet,
Had given with blessings on each Christmas Day
	Their troop of grandchildren a treat.

The annual note to these parents in hand
	Invited by name every one,
And mentioned the lady, so new in the band
	That even a name she had none,
As "the lovely young baby who lately has come''
	“Will be pleased" and so forth—here a smile—
To meet cousins uncles and aunts at our home”
	The shouts of the children grew wild.

They chattered of turkey, plum pudding and pie,
	Dear Grandma presiding in state,
Of aunties and uncles, and cousins "so high,
	And just can peep over the plate.”
Of Grandpapa’s blessing which "was rather long,"
	Though Grandpapa meant well enough,
Of uncle Will's "monica," aunt Rena's song,
	And jolly old Blind Man's Buff.

But papa and mamma had but little to say—
	At least when the children were by—
But talked in a low ridiculous way,
	And ceased when the children drew nigh.
The urchins resented such underhand work,
	Resolving the secret to win;
And win it they did by cunning and quirk,
And this was the cause of their din.

"Papa and Mamma, do waken us, please!
	We’ll be just as quiet as mice!
Oh let us go with you to Grandma's, oh please!
	For nothing was ever so nice—	
No, not Santa Claus with his reindeer and sleigh,
	Nor dollies, fire crackers and toys;
If you'll let us go with you, we'll be every day,
	Your very best girls and boys.

Now who could resist coaxing sweetened with kiss?
	Especially, be it well known,
That from the beginning the parents meant this:
To leave not one urchin at home.
But who in the market their wares give away
	Which readily sell for a price?
So the children succeeded in having their way
	By promising everything nice.
[Column 2]
Now comes Christmas Eve with sweet stories of Christ,
	The ever new records of love
Which fill every chid-heart with purest delight,
	And light to long after-years prove.
And then the goodnights and the eager behest—
	“And dear mamma, please don't forget
To call us so early we'll be ready dressed”—
	Mamma said "I will not, my pet."

		Cold and clear
		The morn is here,
	The gates of the east aflame
		Herald the car
		From depths afar
	Of day;  and with glad acclaim
		We greet the dawn
		Which thus comes on
	To bring to the waiting earth
		Remembrance sweet
		Of angel feet
	And love's divinest birth.

		Rejoice! Be glad!
		Let none be sad
	On this happy Christmas morn,
		For far away
		This blessed day,
	Our Holy One was born.
		Our kindred ties
		He glorifies;
	We honor them more and more,
		And thus we throng,
		With love and song,
	Around our parent's door.

Uncle Will's sweet harmonica quavered and trilled
	Like twittering birds in the spring,
While children and parents the frosty air filled
	With melody sweet as they sing.
They open and enter, with blessings, the door,
	And hasten to Grandmamma's room;
The candles they carry their radiance pour,
	To banish the lingering gloom.

"Dear Father, dear Mother, Merry Christmas!” they cry
	And smother with kisses each face,
Lift up to the pillows each wee girl and boy
	To lisp the sweet greeting with grace.
Then lift two huge stockings, two cubits in length,
	Upon the white dimity spread,
Near bursting with fulness, requiring some strength,
	To lift them as high as the bed.

"Oh thus Santa Claus laid command on your sons,
	Your daughters and little ones here,
To give in his name these small hose to the ones
	Who’ve honored him many a year.
Beloved of  Santa, arise and explore
	The depths of these stockings we bring;
To quicken your fingers a pulse or two more,
	Your children around you will sing:

		Blessings!
	Blessings softly rest
	On the dear ones we love best,
	Grateful thanks to heaven we give
	That our parents dear still live.
		Blessings, blessings!
	Choicest blessings ever fall
	Pray your children one and all.

		Blessings!
	Blessings for the care
	Lavished on our childhood fair;
	Blessings for the toil and pain 
	We can ne'er requite again.
		Blessings, blessings!
	Blessed be your latter days,
	Filled with comfort, peace and praise.
		Blessings!
	Blessings on the day
[Column 2]
	When our Savior oped the way
	For renewal of delight
	In the land all pure and bright.
		Blessings, blessings!
	Ties of kindred never rend,
	Love and gladness without end."

"God bless you dear children, "they murmered, while tears
	Of tenderness brightened their eyes,
"How time has rolled backward the scroll of the years
	To give us this happy surprise!"
And while the fair circle of joy—beaming eyes—
	Those nearest the floor most within—
Keep eager lookout as each parcel unties,
	The voices make musical din.

“Oh, Grandpa," cries Frankie, I'm one Santa Claus,
	I put in that splendid new drum;”	
"I gave you that candy, those nuts, and those toys," 
	Cried each little "Hop o' my Thumb."
And Grandma had dollies and vases, and mugs,
	And sweetmeats, and ribbons, and lace;
Her little ones spiced them with kisses and hugs 
	'Til tears ran like rain down her face.

She said "O my darlings these beautiful things
	Are dear to my heart as can be;
But grandma must never be stingy, so come.
	And taste all these goodies with me.
And Grandpa said "Frankie, my brave little man,
	I’ve forgotten, you see, how to drum;
So take my two drumsticks quick's ever you can
	And play me a good Christmas tune."

And Fanny was asked to "Please hold my new doll,"
	And Katie “my necklace" to wear 
Just while it is Christmas," till each one and all
	Were busy with "helping" the pair.
The search in the stockings again they pursued,
	And still drew out heaps of fine things—
A new shawl for Grandma, a tippet and hood,
	A lovely gold brooch and earrings.

For Grandpa warm gloves and a charming fur cap,
	A muffler, a coat and a cane,
For both a large Bible to close with a snap,
	And an Album of verses and names.
The daughters and sons who stood lovingly by,
	All beaming with pride and delight,
The old folks said, wiping a tear from each eye,
	Themselves were the joy of their sight.

At last all withdrew to the kitchen and hall,
	And busily ran here and there,
To spread a long table, sufficient for all,
	And breakfast in order prepare.
Then Father and Mother, (now dressed with nice care,)
	Were brought to the table in state,
Where all in sweet reverence knelt down in prayer,
	Each one just before his own plate.

The breakfast was simple (the feast was to come,)
	Toast and butter, oatmeal and rich milk,
In fact just enough to be plenty, and none
	To make the dear little ones sick.
When the house was in order from garret to shed,
	The sleighs were brought round to the door,
To take some on visits with dainties and bread
	As gifts to the sick and the poor.

The children grew solemn at some things they saw,
	And sympathy sprang in each heart;
And gladly for those who had need would they draw
	The baskets and leave them a part.
No preaching nor teaching but this little gem—
	“Whatsoever ye do," sayeth He,
"To the least of my little ones, doing to them,
	Ye also have done it to Me."

Less noisily glad but more happy, they come
	To Grandpa’s dear threshold again,
Where stories and pictures kept busy their tongues,
	Till dinner was ready; and then


Came the grand Christmas feast with roast turkey and—
		there!
	I dare not attempt to portray,
For the carping young critics would surely declare
	'Twas better than all I could say.	

Then games, riddles, music and sweet Christmas song,
	Made pleasant the rest of the day;	
Then, loaded with kisses and blessings, the throng
	To other homes hie them away,
When they helped those wonderful stockings to fill,
	And carry them over the way,
Was the very best Christmas, the children will tell
	And stoutly maintain to this day.
								LU DALTON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
			OTILLIA.
		A CHRISTMAS STORY.
	"Dear me, Floribel, did I really promise to
tell you a story tonight?” “Yes, Auntie,”
answered a chorus of sweet voices chiming in
with Floribel’s.
	Auntie looked away from the fair, youthful
faces gazing so expectantly into her's and
answered dreamily: “I’m sure I don’t know
what to do about it, so many things of a
different nature have filled the day with such
bright realities, that fancy has had no chance to
rest a moment; don’t you think we’ve had
enough—and then—the ball?”
	Such a shadowing of bright faces! The
twinkles vanished from sparkling eyes, restless
dimples disappeared like a flash, lips all smiles
just now, drooped in downward curves and
those penetrating, thought-searching, loving
eyes, where pleading had not quite yielded to
dissappoinment; what a sight they were—that
group around Auntie!
	Floribel just touched the white flannel
around her throat, a reminder that there was
no ball for her tonight (but then, Floribel was
only thirteen;) Rose, Jessie and Lillian with
arms entwining each other stood mutely con-
fronting her and Marguerite slipped around
behind the chair, then, framing Auntie’s head
in her pretty arms, softly kissed her. Auntie’s
slender white hand moved gently upward and
rested on the dimpled ones locked together;
and mused: “Of course you want a new one,
and I fear that my stock of stories is about ex-
hausted; shall it be a real one, or not?”
	The idea of Auntie’s story repository being
exhausted! Hadn’t she always been able to
tell them the very best ones anybody ever
heard and on the shortest possible notice and
didn’t they all know they were newly coined
stories that no one else ever knew of, to tell
anybody? So the twinkles and the dimples
and the smiles all came back and Auntie could
tell just what she pleased, only when it was a
fiction they all felt sorry it couldn’t have been
true; but—how delightful fictions always are,
and may-be—who knows—something nearly
like them might be true, somewhere; it always
takes something real to make a shadow, don’t
it?
	Auntie glanced at the clock across the room,
(it was just lamplight, and there was time for
a short story before going to dress for
the party,and a delightful consciousness of their
satisfaction would go with her); it wouldn’t do
to disappoint the pretty nieces who always
looked upon her as their very ideal of a gentle
gracious lady, and would have done any pos-
sible thing for her comfort and pleasure; so
she drew Marguerite around to a seat beside
her on the sofa, Floribel fell like a snow drift
on the other side and at the same moment the
three others sank upon the bright rug before
her and settled down to give her the closest
attention.
	“I think it had best be a true one tonight,
I may as well take the first one that comes to

[Column 2]
my mind, plain though it be, and strangely
enough this figure in memory has passed before
me several times today.”
	There was no sparkle of amusement in
Auntie’s face, no sign of mystery, but a gentle,
far off look and the loving faces grew more
serious.
	"Some few years ago, before your parents
came to live in this pleasant city, there was a
young woman who used to come to our house
twice a week to help us. To have met her upon
the street, you would not have guessed that
anything but a quiet stroll was her object, no
suggestion of work day presented itself, no
hurry in her gait, no carelessness in her attire
or anxiety in her countenance, just a quiet
dignity of deportment.  When she entered the
house her face was smiling, her manner
courteous, and a spirit of cheerfulness and
buoyant strength made itself felt at once. The
children would hasten, one to take her hat,
veil and shawl, another would draw a chair
near the table or fire for her, her cough would
be inquired after and last, no—sometimes first,
our three year old boy would ask: “did you
bring me a candy mouse, Miss Otillia?”
	Then such a pantomine of gestures and ex-
pressive changes of countenance would follow;
to see her clasp her hands and look so seriously,
her face half averted, you might think the
treasure had been accidentally forgotten; but
no, never ceasing to watch the baby’s features,
her hand would slide down into her pocket
and draw out a small package, which con-
tained gum drops, peppermint lozenges and
chocolate cream mice, these last for her favorite.
"O, dat sweet mout!” she would say expres-
sively; “Well now, I don’t care, I would walk
a mile any day to bring something to dat child;
I don’t know if someting will happen to him
sometime; dose eyes too bright, dose cheeks too
red and and dat voice when he say ‘Miss
Otillia!’ then Miss Otillia would close her eyes
and turn away with such an air of inexpres-
sible tenderness that we could not help smil-
ing at her frank and emotional way, for we all
knew that she was sincere and really loved the
boy. I think that if he had been a young
prince she could not have shown him more
tenderness and respect, or listened to his pro-
fuse promises of what he would do for her
when he became a man. He had a quaint
fancy, no one knew where it came from, of call-
ing himself “Little Reindeer.”
	One day when after her work was over, she
sat down with an air of weariness, in a rock-
ing chair, he came before her and resting his
hands on her knee looked sympathetically in
her face. His long, flossy, golden curls lay
upon his shoulders and she was studying the
picture.
	“Miss Otillia, when Little Reindeer is grown
up to be a man, you shall not be tired any-
more; I will take you in a carriage and you
shall have a silk dress and shi—ning beads
and I will give you flowers and grapes—and
you shall ride and ride, far away with me.”
Eagerly listening to his loving sympathy, with-
out a word to repulse or chill his little heart,
Miss Otillia covered her face with her hands
as though such sure happiness was overwhelm-
ing, then answered him: “Den, my Little
Reindeer, I will never ride with any one else,
I will wait for you.” “If I did not know for
myself when dis boy was born, I would sure
believe me he was some royal blood; to give
himself a title like dat! like it was his right;
and to be so fine and proud and make such
grand promises! Well it is his nature!”
	When we would gently remonstrate with her
for spending her money in candies for the
children she answered with dignity: “Please
don’t say dat, to have some one watch for me
and expect something of me, makes me to feel
like I was somebody and not myself all alone.
I get so tired, to buy things just for myself.”

[Column 3]
So we could not deny this gentle appeal; but
if we tried to make it up to her by any extra
allowance she was quick to discern and decline
it. “It is one dollar, and no more.”  Dear
Miss Otillia, she was so exquisitely sensitive,
proud, independent and loving; witty too. She
had a way of her own in dismissing suitors,
that there was no getting around. “Yes," she
reflectively answered one lover: “you have
known me these several years and seen me
earn my own living, why did you not ask me
a long time ago?”
	“Oh, no, not now, when you wait so long to
see if I was nice enough.” Imagining he saw
a ray of light through his o’ershadowed hopes,he
pleaded embarrassment and inquired if his fate
might have been different at an earlier stage of
their acquaintance. Miss Otillia regarded him
with a sidewise serio-comic look and replied.
“I think not.”
	After his departure she said emphatically,
that “he was a fine man.” “Then why did you
refuse him?” “I mean a fine man, for some
other woman.” So it went, the ardent were
dismissed as too hasty, the more retiring as too
tardy; one answer for all—no. And yet, Miss
Otillia was not heartless, it was because she
placed a higer estimate upon the marriage
contract than is usual. Through the fires of
sacrifices the dross of her own nature had been
consumed and she exacted for the pure gold of
her own heart, only its equivalent; a pure life
to watch a pure life, harmony in faith, and
true love to match her own.
	Few that were acquainted with her had an
idea of her complete self. Her outer and inner
life were different yet harmonious. To mere
acquaintances she was a perfectly proper, un-
married woman; to her friends, a continual
wonder, entertainment and admiration; a being
of noble purpose, self sacrifice, love and child-
like simplicity. And her history! I must tell
you that, so you may understand her.
	I have often wondered if, when she so quietly
threaded her way along the yet uncrowded
streets, her mind was not elsewhere amid scenes
of the past, for she was very proud of her own
country, Denmark.
	There was one very eccentric person whom
she had known at home, and she would often
defend him,for his peculiarities were frequently
alluded to. “Well now I don't care; dat was
a very fine gentleman at home, he had a
position in de King’s palace and his wife was
so fine! almost like a high born lady; and
now he is poor with no one to say what he is, I
will speak for him!” One day I quietly asked
her to step outside and when we reached the
end of the house, a very excitable harangue
could be heard, a confused and amusing com-
bination of English and Scandinavian; the
person was quarreling with an American on
the street corner. In a moment she recog-
nized her countryman and with deepest morti-
fication exclaimed: “O Mine own Country!
What would mine King say to dat gentle-
man. And so beautiful, he can preach and
sing dem hymns,” and here again, gestures
and looks finished the sentence.
	A great actor had been playing Hamlet at
our theatre and I remarked to her; “I saw
you last night, how did you like the play?”
	“I guess I like dat play as well as any one,
Hamlet was a Dane. Dat Shakespeare have
to come to My Country for dat grand sub-
ject, but (with impressive dignity) you should
see dat play in Copenhagen. “Does it not
recieve justice at our hands, Miss Otillia?”
“Well now, Mrs. I don’t say but dat dey do
as vell as dey can in de English language
but—” and with another of her expressive
looks Miss Otillia humiliated our national
pride) but we humored her for we knew how
much our country and our faith have cost
her.	
	“How did you come to receive the Gospel


Miss Otillia?” “I was in Copenhagen. My
father was killed in His Majesty’s service
and soon after de war dem Mormon Elders
came and my mother believe dem. Before
dis, so many dead bodies caused sickness and
my eyes went almost blind. My mother in
her faith called in de Elders and my eyes
were healed and in my thankfulness I was
baptized, with my sisters and my brother. I
was not always at Copenhagen. We had lived
near de palace of Prince Christian at Glucks-
burg before he was King and my mother did
often mend de dresses of de little girls Alex-
andra and Dagmer. Many days and years we
played and studied together; and dat Dag-
mar was so sweet! when we run through de
garden, and she tell us so much about dem
pictures of dead ladies and gentlemen ’till I
know dem all. When de time came for dem
to go and be made fine ladies because dey
must live in de palace at Copenhagen when
King Frederick die and bye and bye be
married to some Princess, den I see dem no
more to speak to dem, only once in a long
while when dem lovely Princesses see us, dey
know us and remember and smile. You see
my mother had something given her to do at
Copenhagen after dey was dere. When
Alexandra go away so happy to her English
home, I sit me down and cry; O, dem flags!
and dem fine sights! but de English love her.
Now you must not laugh at me nor be sur-
prised, but poor Dagmar, among dem Russian
Nihilists, I pray for her every day I lives!”
Tears were in Miss Otillia’s eyes and could I
do less than say; “pray on Otillia and may
Heaven grant your prayers.”
	O, royal Dagmar in your resplendent palace
in the proud Empire of the North, little there
comes to you the thought amid your regal
splendors, the fulness of your joys or the
tumult of your fears, that a playmate of your
childhood remembers you with the devotion
of subject to sovereign and trembling for
your peace, prays for you in her lowly home in
far off Utah. And is it not probable that
these prayers have shielded her?
	“There must have been other friends, too,
whose loss you remember and miss.” For
reply she took from her finger a ring and
pointed to the inside and I read the names
Waldemar and Otillia. She replaced it on
her finger and said: “Now I will tell you.
We had been Mormons awhile but did not
talk of it outside de members, it was no use
my mother said; so when this one so long my
friend came every week, we waited to see if
he would hear and believe. One evening as
we walked together he told me he had heard
about some Danes had been baptized into dis
strange church, and said dey was crazy fools
and he wish de King would punish dem. He
was in de King’s service and looked so grand
and terrible! I knew dat night I must never
see him any more it must be one or de other
for me, not both, and I took de Gospel.” “Did
you not feel tried and alone, Miss Otillia?” “I
was not de only one dat was tried; I could
tell you of many aching hearts and I had to
be sorry for dem too.” Dear Miss Otillia
thought I: if I ever hear anybody speak
slightingly of you as an old maid I’ll see
about it. “One night dere came into our
meeting a lady and we were so surprised we
all knew who she was de Lady Amalia, (a
maid of honor I tink you call it) to a grander
lady. She had heard from her brother about
an angel had come in this de plan of salvation
and must hear it for herself. O, when she
walk down de room her dress just make a
noise so beautiful; and dem diamonds in her
ears; well now it did look strange in dat little
meeting because so many poor were der. But
dat lady was not proud, it was just like she
dressed all de time and when she heard de
Elder preach de tears run down her cheeks
[Column 2]
like rain, and many others cry too.” “Why
so Miss Otillia:” “Well now, Mrs. dat lady
knew it was de truth and she could not deny
it, and she knew when de grand people find
her out, she must be cast out from dem.
	Her brother came with her and he was an
officer. Bye and bye de grand lady asks her:
“I hear about your going to a strange
church?” Lady Amalia would not say no,
and de other one said: “If you go no more
it is well, but if you do you must leave me.”
Den she looks so terrible dat Lady Amalia
almost faint away but de next moment she
held out her hands and asked: “Will you let
me tell you someting? but she would not
listen, so she told her brother and the same
had been said to him; so dey take dere fine
tings and sell dem and she teach music awhile
and he teach language till dey come away to
America. Now; when dat Lady Amalia
came to Utah she was soon married to one of
dem Elders and where do you tink she went
to live?” “I can’t imagine Miss Otillia, do
tell me?” “Away, up north of Salt Lake
City and into a log house she spend her first
Christmas! and her brother said: “Let us
have a big fire for I cut and hauled dese logs
myself, and he was so proud as if he was right
in de palace at Copenhagen!” Miss Otillia
laughed so heartily at this that I could not
help joining and loving her more than ever
for her artless happiness.
	Two years ago this Christmas, Miss Otillia
sent me by the hand of a friend, a little token
of remembrance; a card with her name and
silver doves in flight across the upper margin,
Weeks passed by during which I was plan-
ning to leave home and go see her. One day
there came the dreadful word to me that she
had been sick for several weeks and had died
almost alone, attended only by her widowed
sister. For days, that heavy cloud of sorrow;
that vain remorse for slighting the promptings
of the still small voice; and seeing not that
flight of the spirit which the little doves fore-
told. And it seemed that before me rose a
pure white shaft, plain as her life among us
had been; revealing not the words that floated
before me night and day.
	Here lies one who was the playmate of
Alexandra, of Dagmar and of Thyra, whose
footsteps turned from palace halls to follow
the summons of the Gospel’s sound, to toil
and dwell in humility yet remembering ever
in her prayers the crowned and noble friends
of her childhood. Rest Otillia, thy weary
body here, but may thy quickened spirit there
still spread the plea and guardian ship of
prayer round thy beloved Dagmar. May’st
thou walk in fairer palaces than those of earth,
till thou shalt meet that one, whose name thy
failing breath revealed greet thee with a bride-
groom’s kiss.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Dec. 6, 1889.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A THOUGHT.	
Often in the evening, when the darkness cometh on,
	And the shadows fall around us,
Bringing sadness, quiet, calm;
	Do we think of those dear loved ones,
Who to us are life and hope.
	Do we raise our hearts in gladness
And a blessing then invoke?

When our lives are blessed with treasures,
	Such as love can only bring,
And our homes are made resplendant,
	By the joy that reigns within:
Then, oh then the soul’s fulfillment,
	In this earthly life is seen,
And a glimpse of heaven is shown us,
	In this shadowy world of sin.

And is the world not coming
	To a richer, nobler plain?


Are not the crumbs of knowledge
	Going to count us in the main?
O yes we are advancing,
	Through the mist and through the dark.
There is an age now dawning
	Which must satisfy the heart.

It is the coming of the Savior,
	Who is the God of light;
And in the world's redemption,
	Sin, and satan, must take flight.

Christ is coming, can't you see him?
	Through the whirlwind and the strife,
Fast advancing in the form
	Of an everlasting life.

Open then your hearts,
	For there His habitation
	And only there must be
He is the God of Love—of Hope—of Kindness—
Shrouded in Charity.
						LYSLE DE VAUX.


BIRTHDAY—TO E. C. F.

		FROM SISTER LU.

As the golden days of October,
	Merged into November gray,
Far backward I wander'd in fancy,
	Thro' long misty years away.
Kind memory drew back the curtain
	From many a fairy scene,
Gilding all with luminous glory,
	Fresh as the blossoms of spring.

There I greeted a new-born infant,
	As from the heavenly fold,
Assured that it must have come earth-ward
	Fom out the city of gold.
Oh, what joy a little child brought us!
	Wonderful love and delight,
I live it all o'er in the gloaming,
	On this chill November night;

The glad smiling welcomes and greetings,
	As gleams from Paradise shed,
Shine brightly in memory's keeping,
	From out the years that have fled.
The sweet infant smiles, soft caresses
	The touch of a tiny hand,
The old and the young in their places,
	Complete the dear household band.

Safe 'mong leaves of November
	Are pictures sombre and bright,
Leng stored in memory's chamber,
	Where frosts of time cannot blight,
By love's clear magical lantern,
	Shining down the muffled years,
Thro' life 'till its golden autumn,
	Come fresh views of smiles and tears.

To-night on this anniversary
	A day made famous of old
We send thee greetings most tender,
	With love that never grows cold.
We ask that long life be given,
	If God in wisdom sees best,
And choicest blessings of heaven,
	To make it supremely blest.

Retrospection on thy pathway
	Beam with a halo sublime,
Kind hands strew flowers about thee
	To solace days of decline;
In firm faith rejoicing ever,
	'Til life's wintry days are gone,
Then, in the bright land of summer,
	Awake in glory of dawn.
Atchison, Nov. 5th, 1889.

*Gun powder Plot in London, Eng.


A Volume of Poems by Bishop O. F. Whitney
is being published at the Office of the Juvenile
Instructor.  It is expected it will be ready for 
sale at Christmas time.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00, one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.	
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,  -  - DECEMBER 15, 1889.


HOLIDAY THOUGHTS.
	Salt Lake City has put on her holiday attire
once more, and bedecked herself profusely with
gay colors, and on every side one notes immedi-
ately that Christmas is at hand.  The stores and
shop-windows are almost too full for display,
though a great deal of good taste is manifest in the
arrangement of Christmas goods.  The children
are on tiptoe with excitement, and gaze as they
pass along with wonder-eyes, at the variety of toys
and playthings, on exhibit.  What a contrast the
streets present now to thirty years ago, and how
the little folks revel in luxuries that Santa Claus
supplies for their indulgence.
	One cannot help an occasional feeling that after
all there may be a little over-doing in the way the
children celebrate Christmas now-a-days.
	There seems to be an extreme forcing itself 
upon this community in this, as in many other
respects in the present day, and we are all more
or less willing to float along with the popular cur-
rent, rather than attempt any positive reform.
Latter-day Saints should be wise and cautious in
every matter that will have a bearing upon the
education and character of their children.  It is
the tendency of this particular age or period of
time to run after pleasure to indulge in things that
if not radically wrong, lead in that direction.
	This people are living in a most important era
of the world when a great work and a wonder is
to be wrought, and it will hardly be the over-fed
and uncontrollable children who cry for and de-
mand every bauble they see, that will be qualified
and prepared to bear off the kingdom victoriously:
If so it will be contrary to any principle yet known.
Jesus said,  "He that would be like unto me let
him take up his cross and follow me."
	If in the midst of the abundance of worldly 
goods, simplicity of style and manner of living
and dressing could be judiciously exercised, truer
happiness would be found than in the super-
abundance of those things that are neither good
for young or old. The saints are following the
customs of modern Christendom, instead of com-
plying with the laws of life and health and giving
heed to the knowledge that will tend to life
eternal.
	It is a blessed thing to stop sometimes, and take
a little recreation, and contemplate the condition
and circumstances which surround the community
in which we live; and to hold communion with
those of one’s household, this is heavenly. If it
were not for these days set apart for such re-
unions the family ties would not be as closely
riveted as they are; this is what sweetens life, and
makes the bitter portion many drink to the very
dregs, more palatable, and gives zest to senti-
ment and strength to the affections.
	Children do not have too much love, not even
on Christmas, no it is not that,but they very often
have too many toys and sweetmeats. How many

[Column 2]
﻿little children are there in the world who long
more earnestly for real love, than they do for
aught else; there is no comfort or luxury will
supply its place even in the heart of a little child
There is more happiness because of love than
from any other gift.
	The Savior has taught many lessons of love in
the New Testament, and enjoined upon the saints
to love one another. It is natural to seek the happi-
ness of those we love, to spare no pains, to grudge
no self-denial on our part, and this we should
teach to the children. Above all else mothers
tell the little ones a story on Christmas, and let it
be a true one, that will always be remembered.
Who knows where we, or they may be when
Christmas comes again? Therefore make the day
one of contentment and peace, of gladness and re-
joicing not only to our own, but to those who are
suffering or bowed down with care or sorrow.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Exponent extends to all its patrons and
friends here in the valleys of the mountains, and
abroad throughout the various nations, where it
goes as a messenger of “peace and good will,” good
wishes and a very merrie Christmas and a Happy
New year.
	Our readers will see that as the paper this time
is a real holiday number, we have omitted for once
publishing regular articles such as Reports from
the several associations, and obituaries, and also
the continued story of Hephzibah. We hope to
please, interest and amuse some of those who are
fond of poetry and stories. It will be a distinct
number and suitable to send away as a remem-
brance to friends, we shall have extra copies
struck off specially for that purpose.
	A day of solemn Fasting and Prayer has been
appointed by the First Presidency of the Church to
be observed throughout these mountain vales, and
all are requested to unite in beseeching our
Heavenly Father to pour out His Holy Spirit in
great power upon His servants and all the Saints
as a testimony that His watch-care is over His
chosen people. The day set apart is the next
anniversary of the birth of the Prophet Joseph
Smith—December 23rd, and special meetings will
be held also prayer meetings; places of business
of the Latter-day Saints will be closed on that
day. The fast will commence at sundown on the
22d, and continue until sundown of the 23rd.
We have heard many of the sisters express them-
selves desirous of a fast or meeting of this kind,
and the appointment is sure to be responded to by
every Latter-day Saint who feels the importance
of the present condition of this people.
	The regular quarterly conference of the Y. L.
M. I. Associations of this Stake will be held in the
Assembly Hall, on Friday, December 20th. Meet-
ings will commence at ten a.m. and two p. m.
Presidents of the associations are desired to use
every influence possible to have this conference
well attended. It is expected that some of the
Church authorities will be present to counsel the
young ladies. All who are interested in the
cause of mutual improvement are invited to attend.
The Conference of the Relief Society of the
Salt Lake Stake will be held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall in this City on Thursday Decem-
ber 19th meetings commencing at 10,. a. m. and
2, p.m. as usual. A representation from each
branch of the Relief Society is earnestly desired,
and it is sincerely hoped there will be a large
attendance of the members, as this is a time when
union and a faithful discharge of duty on the
part of each individual member seems impera-
tive. Bishops and other brethren, are most
cordially invited to attend the Conference as
also all interested in this benevolent organi-
zation.


THE FAIRY MOTHER.

I sat me down to-night, to sing a song,
	A Christmas song of other days methought,
The wind was blowing furiously along—
	And as the muse beseechingly I sought,
I heard some voices whispering soft and low,
And then I listened, curious you know! 		

Ah, well-a-day I thought, perchance I’ll hear  
	Some fancy for my song, some secret spell;
A fairy may be lingering very near,
	Or blithesome wind some wondrous tale may tell;
A little story one can weave in rhyme,
And sing to children, at the Christmas time.

And as I pondered lo, a change of scene,
	Yet the bold wind kept up its music too.
And now with Santa Claus a radiant queen
	Enters the room robed in a sapphire blue,
He with his furs and baskets loaded down.
She simply clad in cloak and flowing gown. 

I wondered why she went about like this,
	And kept herself forever by his side;
And on her face a smile of restful bliss
	So chaste and pure, ’twas like a virgin bride
But all the while she walked with noiseless feet
Til Santa Claus had made his work complete.

And as she wandered through each silent room
	On tiptoe quietly her task to fill,
A magic light dispelled the former gloom;
	And here and there she scatter’d at her will 
Rare sweets and beauties with her gentle hand.
And hummed a song, I could not understand.

Sometimes I thought its meaning very sad.
	Yet with the light in those expressive eyes
I knew it must be full of promise glad
	And ever and anon she looked so wise—
As glancing up and down she went about
Til Santa Claus was ready to go out.

And then she shut the door, and down she knelt,
	Praying to God for wisdom and for grace 
I thought I knew what she that moment felt.
	But light and glory shone upon her face,
When she arose and viewed each shining head,
Nestled so closely in their downy bed.

O angel-mothers in your homes to-night,
	Let every word be like a fairy pearl,
To shine in after years forever bright,
	A talisman, to every boy and girl
To bind them closer to the hearth and home,
Whether on land or sea, they yet may room.


CHRISTMAS EVE.

'Tis Christmas Eve. In every home 	
	Where Christians know the glorious name,
Each face is bright with hope and joy,
	And every hearth with leaping flame;
Nay check the happy, thoughts and words
	That should be truth, for sadly wakes 
Remembrance of the poor of earth—
	For them, what joy through sorrow breaks?

In many a church this day have met.
	The brave and strong, the fair and bright,
Until with wreaths and winter flowers
	'Tis made a beauteous, sacred sight; 
A rev’rent tribute to our Lord
	To whom earth’s riches are as naught, 
But the soul’s off'ring brought in love
	An incense with sweet perfume fraught. 

Beneath those arches, garlanded 
	With evergreens' eternal prime,
'Mid columns wreathed and streaming light,
	'Mid music’s welcome, sweet, sublime;
A being clothed in purest white.
	Enters, a loftier form beside,
And bent and youthful forms alike
	Whisper their blessing, on the bride.

The throng is gone the church is closed
	And gentle voices fill the air.
The lights of home, like stars they shine
	And joy and music wait them there.


But, happy as e’er bride or groom,
	The children’s hour at last is found,
The arch triumphal of their day—
	The fire place with stockings 'round.

Then clasp and sweet good nights are heard 
	Far up the stairway and the hall;
O, wedded lovers—parents fond—
	Children are happiest of all.
O, Angels, touch those dainty cheeks
	With Heaven’s love in guardian kiss,
Come, after years with all life hath,
	There'll be no sweeter time than this.

O pity! for those darkened lands
	That have not learned the Love and Light,
The ‘Peace on earth good will to man’
	That shall each creature's wrongs make right.
O pity for those lonely isles
	That ’wait for Thee’ through ages long,
Where man is Master, or is slave
	And Satan holds his fortress strong.

But pity more the souls once free
	Now prison bound for truth’s own sake,
Who’ll hear within their tow’ring walls 
	The sounds of Christmas morn awake.
For these who’ve borne the word of God
	No sweet home greeting and embrace,
Yet faith shall heal the tender wound 
	And light the gloom of e’en, that place.

And little children springing up
	On Christmas morn their joy will check 
A moment, just, the while they cling
	Around their lonely mother’s neck,
Yet by the Name that crowns this Day,
 	We know this trial is for good,
That test will end when we have proved
	True manliness and womanhood.

So ring, ye merry Christmas bells
	Front lofty spires and flying sleighs,
Though joy is sweet. His loved ones' tears
	More precious are than sounding praise.
And, by some angel messenger
	Tidings of love in prayer will send,
'Till comes the time when all at home
	The blessed Christmas hours shall spend.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Dec. 8, ’89.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OLD AGE. 
	We often speak of old age as going down the
hill—I rather like to speak of it as going up a
steep and rugged hill, or mountain where we have
to climb over first one rock and then another
—alternately bruised with stones and torn with
briers which grow from the bottom of the hill to
the top.
	It is now many years since I began to ascend
this hill. I surmounted the rocks pretty readily
at first, but I found that the higher I ascended the
steeper was the hill and the more difficult I found
it to progress, and as I advanced I found I needed
some supernatural help. I thought of my Savior
and knowing that He had traveled a rugged path
while on this earth and that He was able and
willing to help me and to sympathize with me, I
sought by prayer and faith for His guidance, and
He graciously condescended to accompany me
up the hill. I also found it necessary to take the
promises of my Heavenly Father for my staff,and
I began to search the sacred Scriptures for those
most suitable to my circumstances. I sought
counsel and encouragement from the Prophets—
David exhorted me to be of good courage assur-
ing me that the Lord would give strength to His
people, for said he, “I sought the Lord and He
heard me and delivered me from all my fears.”
With this staff for my support and the company
of my Saviour I felt I was advancing. Others
were on the road with me, but although aged like
myself, they seemed to get over the rocks easier
than I did, consequently were a little in advance
but we all struggled on until we came to a beauti-
tul piece of green-sward on one side of our path

[Column 2]
and the opposite side a dreary desert. I was
hoping to enjoy with my companions a rest in the
cool shade of this beautiful spot, but my Savior
said to me—“Come ye apart into this desert place
and rest awhile.” When there He laid affliction
upon me and brought me very near to the gates of
death. In my distress I cried—“Be pleased O,
Lord to deliver me, O Lord make haste to help
me.” He graciously answered my prayer by
sending two of His servants, clothed with the
Holy Priesthood and power to heal the sick and
by the Anointing with Oil and the prayer of faith
I was again placed on my feet and re-commenced
my journey up the hill. I soon found another
large rock in my path, and weak and weary as I
was I wanted to sit down and rest, but no, upward
and onward was the Motto set before me and I
must not falter. With the help of my God I have
climbed over these stumbling-blocks until I have
nearly reached the top of the hill, and looking
up, I see an outstretched hand which I know to
be the hand of my Heavenly Father waiting to
help me over the last step.

		"I have but Thee oh, Father! Let Thy Spirit
			Be with me then to comfort and uphold;
		No gate of pearl, no branch of palm I merit
			Nor street of shining gold.

		Suffice it if—my good and ill unreckoned.
			And both forgiven through Thy abounding grace—
		I find myself by hands familiar beckoned
			Unto my fitting place.”

	Turning round to take a retrospective viw of
the road I have traveled, and taking special notice
of the rocks and briers I have had to contend with,
I am astonished to find that I have been permitted
to reach so near the top of the hill, and with ador-
ing gratitude I acknowledge the hand of my
Father through it all, and especially do I thank
Him that He has permitted me to come on this
earth at the time when he has revealed the ever-
lasting Gospel, and I know that whatever trials
He may call me to pass through in the near future,
He will deal gently with me, although one of the
weakest of His Saints.
	May we as a people be able to purify our hearts
before Him, that we may stand perfect and com-
plete in His sight. 
						MARY Y. CORBY.


EMMA.
A THANKSGIVING STORY.
	The snow had been falling all through the
night and the morning light found everything
in the little town of L. sleeping beneath a soft,
white coverlet which the sun’s bright beams
turned into a mass of sparkling gems. Over-
looking the pretty town on the brow of the
hill stands a great white temple, which with its
snowcovered towers and turrets seems even
whiter now, and watching the fleecy clouds just
separating, leaving one large clear, blue space
above its snowy roof, one fancies that glorious
monument the dwelling place of angels
only just now dropped from heaven to cast a
divine light over the broad, beautiful valley
beyond.
	'Twas the last Thursday in November. A
fair, cold, silent day, a day when one prefers to
remain indoors and enjoy the warm fire, the
sumptuous dinner and the games and stories
which this holiday usually calls forth; but a
few found a sweet pleasure in ascending the
hill to the temple and enjoying a few hours
within its sacred walls mingling their voices in
praise and thanksgiving to the Father. I stood
without, listening to the sounds of music and
looking at the distant landscape where the
river winds among the blue far stretching hill,
enrapt in a strange aud sombre mood, when the
great outer door was opened and the worship-

[Column 2]
pers came forth, their step so light, their faces
all aglow as though some serene influence
guided every thought. Among the throng I
marked one whose step was just as light but
slower, whose face was as serene but still a
little sad, and he wandered from the crowd in a
lonely untrodden way; him I resolved to fol-
low. He led not to a bright cheery home or a
noisy street, but to the silent, lonely burying 
ground, and winding among the tombs and
mounds finally halted before a simple stone on
which was cut the name Emma.
	As he read the inscription his eyes filled with
tears and right in the snow he knelt and offered
up a prayer. I passed on but waited near the
gate hoping to learn from him as he returned
from his lonely visit, the story of her, whose
memory he held so dear, for story I was sure
there must be, a romantic one at that, but I 
scarcely had imagined anything so strange and
sad as the tale I afterwards learned.
	The stone marked the resting place of a wo-
man, possessed of such grace and beauty as any
of England’s fair daughters could boast, and
endowed with wonderful gifts and accomplish-
ments.
	In her father’s simple English home she
had ever been the brightest flower, cheering
and comforting her parents, caring for and
amusing her younger brothers and sisters, and
delighting and entertaining them all, and their
guests as well, with her piquant manner and
charming voice. One evening a stranger from
London was brought to the little home and in-
troduced to Mr. B's—family by a friend, and
as was customary the father, always proud of
his daughter’s beautiful voice, requested her to
sing for their entertainment. The gentleman
instantly perceived that the quality of her
voice was far beyond the ordinary, and him-
self a musician and director of an orchestra,
(though this fact was unknown to his host and
family,) saw an opportunity to make some gain
as well as pleasure through cultivating these
new acquaintences. He praised Emma’s voice
and insisted on her singing a number of songs,
but never admitting his own profession or
knowledge of music. He appeared to be
simply enjoying the melodies, while all the time
he was trying to note the compass,the strength,
the power, the pathos of this gentle girl’s most
wonderful voice. That evening was but the
beginning of a series of calls, and the gentle-
man came at different hours trying to gain an
opportunity to meet Emma alone and then
make her an offer, which he feared her parents
on account of their religious prejudice might
reject, but believed that he might persuade her
to accept. The opportunity finally came. One
evening some strangers from America were
holding a meeting in a large hall not far
distant from Mr. B’s. They professed to be
elders, teaching as Christ and His Disciples
taught, and some excitement had been worked
up through their coming, and Mr. B. had per-
suaded his wife to go with him to hear them.
Emma was left at home in charge of the
children and had just finished helping them off
to bed and returned to the little parlor to enjoy
a few moments practice when the door bell
rang. She felt sure it was her new friend. To
a girl like Emma, simply reared, but sensitive
and refined to a degree beyond her surround-
ings, the attentions of a cultivated and intelli-
gent man are very flattering, and when they
become so marked as Mr. Reading’s were,could
not help but touch her heart, such was indeed
the case. She knew the sound of his step,
and her heart throbbed if he touched her hand,
the blood rushed through her veins and tinged
her face, as his eyes rested upon her with such
looks of admiration and affection as he often
bestowed upon her. She scarcely dared to be-
lieve he loved her and was loth to acknowledge
that she loved him, but she knew that when
he was absent she was wretched, and that his
presence alone chased every unpleasant, discon


[Column 1]
tented thought from her mind. That evening
he revealed to her his profession and offered to
train her voice, telling her that he knew it to
possess such power, that with proper cultivation
she could claim the homage of princes, and
great wealth and renown would be hers. He
was not deceiving her now, but he did not also
care to tell the struggles and trials of a public
career. He made an offer to give her lessons
and bring her before the public, insisting that
the surprise to her parents, if she kept her
lessons secret would give so much more
pleasure, that she consented. The lessons in
music went on and lessons in love as well, and
one evening Emma presented her parents with
two opera tickets, telling them she bought
them with her own allowance and begging
them to go, for it would be something they
would greatly enjoy and ought not to miss;
Mr. B. was himself something of a singer and
consented as he usually did to Emma's en-
treaties. The dear girl was flushed with ex-
citement, her dark eyes shone like stars and
her countenance was a perfect glow; she
danced around the house, completed her little
every day tasks and begged to go to see a
friend for a little while. She went to a neigh-
bor's who was in her secret and there dressed
in her costume for the opera, covering herself
with a large cloak she proceeded to the theatre
in company with her friend. Mr. Reading
met her at the door and he felt, by her ex-
uberant spirits and bright face that he need
have no fear of her success.
	The curtain rose and the old-fashioned couple
sitting in the best seats in the building turned
their attention to the stage, they had been gaz-
ing at their surroundings, and the audience had
been gazing at them, it looked so odd to see
these simply dressed working people among
the most fashionable part of the audience. But
after the music began Mr. B. had no eyes or
ears for the be-jeweled people around him but
was at once lost in the sweet strains from the
violins. All voices now were hushed, and the
music vibrated throughout the building, the
faces of the audience were all expectant, for a
new prima donna with an Italian name if not
descent, was about to appear; every sound was
hushed as proudly and gracefully she came for-
ward, her sweet voice, with just the slightest
tremble, pealed forth its pretty song, when she
had finished for a moment the silence remained,
then a loud deafening applause began which
ended only by her reappearance and a repitition
of her song. The old folks were at first stricken
almost dumb with surprise, and neither offered
to move until the song ended, then the father
spoke aloud, "Why that's our Emma!" As in-
deed it was, and this was but the beginning of
a long stage career.
	The kind but stern father remonstrated and
the mother entreated her to give it up, though
she did seem so wrapped up in her chosen pro-
fession, for they apprehended with a parents'
anxiety that failure, poverty and despair, as
well as fame and success might be the fate of
a public life.
	Not only was their daughter in love with
her profession, but she was deeper in love with
her instructor, and she readily saw by accept-
ing an offer of marriage from him not only her
ambition satisfied, for he wished her to pursue
the stage, but her happiness complete. The
father mistrusted him almost from the first, and
besides he and his wife had become imbued
with the new doctrines that "the Americans"
had brought to them and naturally wished
their children to accept them as well. Mr.
Reading on the contrary had refused these
teachings and was a bitter opponent to them,
but his influence with Emma prevailed, he be-
lieved her voice would be certain fortune to
him, and if his love was not as great as his
avarice he at least held sufficient affection for
her at that time to make her his wife. 
[Column 2]
	The Elders, as they called themselves, often
visited at Mr. B’s. and taught his family the
gospel, but Emma was seldom present always
going to rehearsals and operas, and her lover
took great pains to prejudice her against this
new religion. He finally decided to return to
London, and therefore hastened their marriage,
that he might bring his beautiful, young wife
before an audience in that great metropolis.
	The wedding was quietly celebrated at home,
Mr. B. consenting. After a thorough investiga-
tion of Mr. R’s. character, he found him to be
fairly well liked among his London acquaint-
ances most of whom were musicians, and though
nothing very commendatory was revealed still
neither was there anything to justify him in a
positive refusal to the marriage, when he
realized how much his daughter's happiness
depended on it.
	The parting from home was far sadder than
Emma imagined; she was so attached to every
little thing in the home of her girlhood, and
the precious little sisters and brothers, and the
patient and tender mother and her great-souled,
dear, dear father, oh, how she clung to them
all and wept, and even faltered, and would fain
have remained in the quiet, homely little nest,
even though she believed the world was waiting
to greet her and do her homage, but the hus-
band hurried her off and with tender words of
his own; and wonderful stories of her approach-
ing fame, soon led her thoughts into other
channels, and on they sped to the great city,
where a human being is noted, no more than a
single bee in a huge swarm.
	The home of Mr. B. was very lonely without
their dear girl, but the family were much en-
grossed with their new faith and their house
had almost become a home for the Elders as
they paid their usual visits to the locality.
There were many of them now, coming and go-
ing all the time, making new converts and
working and teaching among them. Emma
wrote from time to time, but her letters became
less frequent and less gay, and the father feared
that her life was not all she had anticipated,
though she wrote that she had been very suc-
cessful in her profession, still they failed to hear
other reports of her success, such as they had
believed would come, for in their own blind
love they had been vain enough to think her
fame would be wide spread. Alas, how many
take a public step with the same belief and
soon are quite content with only a local reputa-
tion.
	Emigration to America was the next move
in Mr. B's. family, and as their preparations
were being made they all thought of and longed
for Emma. The father felt he could not
leave her in England in such an uncertain
career; and the mother's heart yearned day and
night for her lovely daughter; the children
asked is Emma coming, we want her to cross
the big ocean with us too?
	They wrote again and again but received no
reply, and at last the day for departure came
and no word from Emma. The little family
parted with country and friends and would
not have grieved much, so full of bright an-
ticipations of the new home in the West were
they, and they might have been quite content,
had it not been that their most beloved
child was somewhere in this land, they knew
not how situated, whether ill or well, miserable
or happy, as it was they looked back many times
and sighed for country, home and daughter.
	In the new land they soon made a happy
comfortable home and the children grew up
'mid pure and religious principles to be honest,
trusted and beloved among their friends. The
father never failing to respond to any duty
placed before him became revered and honored,
but ever in that little home was there a long-
ing and a desire for something not yet theirs.
At last their prayers were answered and ti-
dings came of the daughter, whom last they saw
[Column 3]
a weeping, smiling, hopeful bride. She was
alone in an English hospital, her husband after
compelling her to work on the stage under all
circumstances even when he saw her health
was undermined, till her voice completely
failed her and she could not get engagements,
deserted and left her to grope her way alone
in the world in sickness and poverty. The
letters her father sent her she had never re-
ceived, for her husband did not wish her to
know of their emigrating for fear she would
wish to come. His treatment had even then
assumed some degree of cruelty.
	With what little means she could gather after
selling her few treasures which she had managed
to keep from her husband, she gained admit-
tance to a hospital and while there confided to
her nurse, who seemed a kindly disposed wo-
man, the story of her father and the new faith
he had espoused. It happened that the nurse
had heard of this new Gospel and was in cor-
respondence with an Elder-at that time,and so
she worked with Emma to help her to find her
father. The nurse wrote to the Elder to come to
the hospital, and after hearing Emma's story he
wrote for her to the Presiding Elder in Eng-
land to find out when and where her family
had emigrated. Word was sent to her father
and he soon sent means for his daughter to
come to him. The thought of seeing her dear
ones and the hope that another warmer cli-
mate might possibly cure her cough, for it
was consumption, which exposure and over-
work had brought upon her, raised her spirits
to an unusual degree, and she seemed to revive
as though by magic. She stood the ocean
voyage and long journey to the West re-
markably well, but when at last the journey
was over and in her father's comfortable home
she was reinstalled as their own bright star,
her strength again failed, and she faded and
died in her mother's arms.
	And this Thanksgiving day the father had,
had ceremonies performed in the Lord's Temple
for that dear daughter, who could not live to
do them for herself, and he strolled to the grave
to offer there a prayer of thanksgiving for the
return of his loved one to him, to his people,
and to her Lord.
	This was the unwritten story beneath that
little stone marked Emma.
							A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN OPEN LETTER TO MY FRIENDS.
		“Some have gone to lands far distant
		And with strangers make their homes."
	In some respects this is my case, but while
in a distant land far from home and kindred,
friends are here for all saints when assembled
as we are, making new homes, redeeming the
virgin soil, are near and dear friends. How I
wish I could sit and chat with the dear
friends at home, or could write a letter to
each that we might have a personal digest of
old times and happy scenes of the past. There
are many who have passed from this field of
usefulness to the great beyond. I have wept
when the sad news reached me, not for those
who have died in the Lord but for bereaved
ones here. When the echo of marriage bells
reached me I have rejoiced, if those who were
wed were given by those who have the power
to bless. The sweet little strangers who have
swelled the forces of our “home emigration"
have been kissed and admired, in heart and
mind for my fondness for them remains, as
“Dickens” says!
		“They are idols of hearts and of households
		They are angels of God in disguise"
and no home, can be all home without them.
So the years wear on apace, and all are chang-
ing. Are we growing into a oneness that the
eventful scenes we are passing through de-


mand? I trust and believe so, else I should
not be writing you now.  Shall I give you a
few leaves from my life here?  it may inter-
est you.
	The last two months have been full of
interesting events for our little colony.  On
the 27, of September we were honored with
the company of one of Canada's most influen-
tial and able men.  Hon. Mackenzie Bowell,
Minister of Customs, he was accompanied by
his Dept. Min. Parmalee' and the Inspecter 
of Ports, Capt. Geo H. Young, who by the
bye is doubtless distantly related to us.  They
were met at the St. Mary's River by my hus-
band and Dr. Allen, Collector of Customs at
that port, and a staunch true friend to us.
After an excellent dinner the party were sere-
naded by the choir, then a pleasant evening
of intelligent conversation on many of the
leading topics of the day, with jest and repar-
tee.  In the morning a drive amongst our
fields and flocks viewing our improvements etc.
then adieu with many kind words of praise and
wonder at all that had been accomplished in
two years by us, and we go on our even way
once more.  Not so the press and people for
we have had many words of encouragement
and comment through his Honor's visit, and he
has been "chaffed" not a little for his praise
of us.
	The 12, of October found a party of seven-
teen of our people wending their way to
Macleod, a setlement some 40 miles distant.
Our object in going was to meet the Gov.
Gen. of Canada who is the Representative of
the Queen, and who in company with his wife
Lady Stanley, her daughter, two neices, Mr.
Coleville Sec. Sir James Grant, court physi-
cian, and Mr. Villiers, the correspondent and
artist for the "London Graphic," were to be
there.  A most distinguished party, and we de-
sired to pay them the respect due from all
loyal citizens.
	Within 9 miles of the village our party
fell in with the Vice Regal party, who had
been visiting the Ranch of Senator Cochrane,
viewing their immense herds of stock. etc.
They were escorted by a body of mounted
police who made a very fine appearance.
Through the courtesy of our esteemed friend
Dr. Allen we camped on his grounds, where
we had the pleasure of meeting His Excellency
and Lady Stanley, Sir James Grant, Mrs.
Coleville, Miss Leister and Miss Stanley.  We
were treated in the kindest manner possible.
They honored us by coming into our tent,
chatting freely and cordially, expressing the
pleasure it would have given them to have
visited our little settlements, etc.  Monday
morning Lord Stanley accepted the only
opportunity that presented itself to listen to
our address which he kindly listened and re-
plied to in a most happy and appreciative
manner, said we were welcome here, and in-
vited us to use our influence to induce others
to come.  Hoped the prophecy of Joseph
might be verified.  "All who observe the laws
of her Majesty's Dominion were free to dwell
under the folds of the British flag," stated he
should inform the Queen of our loyalty and
progress, and here let me state that it has
rarely been my lot to meet more unassuming
plainly dressed, and truly kind and gentle
people than are the real nobility of England
whom I have had the pleasure of meeting.
	Dr. Allen was the open "Sesame" to our
many privileges, and we felt truly grateful
for his kindness, he is one of nature's noble
men in very deed.  We need friends and
"Our Father" raises them up as he sees fit, all
praise to Him.  The next event was the steam
thresher, whose whistle woke the echoes of the
Rockies for the first time in this vicinity.  In
the course of a days threshing 4,400, bushels
of wheat and oats were stored away which is
another cause for gratitude, as the drouth in

[Column 2]
the summer, and a fierce hail storm, and early
frost made us a little doubtful for a season.
	The 29, of October brought us the best of
all.  Pres. Woodruff and party arrived here
after a ride across the prairie of 50 miles, all
in excellent health and spirits.  Can the joy
that filled our hearts be told?  no never, twas
meat and drink to our souls 'twas the knowl-
edge that we were cared for by our file leaders,
and the sweet consolation of the spirit of God,
that accompanied them.  Their words of in-
spiration and advice of approval of Brother
Card's course, the strength to him and all,
made it a time of times to us, and made us
feel that our little trials were more than com-
pensated for and forgotten in the joy of their
presence.  (If my dear mother and son could
have been here my happiness would have been
complete.)
	The people were joyfully assembed in con-
ference capacity Sunday and Monday and all
were filled with the desire to do and bear all
things for the gospel's sake and our hearts ran
together with heavenly love and praises to
Our Father, for all his tender mercies, Tues-
day was Pres. Card's 50th birthday, and all
the people assembled in the meeting house
where a splendid public dinner was partaken
of by all, in the evening a party and concert
combined was indulged in by our respected
visitors and nearly all the settlement.  We
had a good time, never to be forgotten.
	Wednesday the 6, the party went to Macleod
as the guests of Dr. Allen, stayed over night
in his elegant home where everything was
done for the comfort of his guests possible, 
next day to Lethbridge visiting the magnifi-
cent coal beds and works of the Galt Co. under
the polite and generous managers kind care
young Mr. Galt.  Through tears we see them
start for beloved Utah, "peace go with them."
And love to you all from the heart that never
forgets a friend, though far away.
				Yours ever,	
						ZINA Y. CARD.
Cardston, Nov. 12th 1889.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A HUNDRED YEARS TO COME.

Where, where will be the birds that sing,
	A hundred years to come?
The flowers that now in beauty spring
	A hundred years to	come?
The rosy lip, the lofty brow.
The heart that beats so gaily now.
Oh, where will be Love's beaming eye,
Joy's pleasant smiles and sorrow's sigh,	
	A hundred years to come?

Who’ll throng for gold this crowded street. 
	A hundred years to come?
Who’ll tread yon church with willing feet.
	A hundred years to come?
Pale trembling age, and fiery youth,
And childhood with its heart of truth.
The rich, the poor, on land and sea—
Where will the mighty millions be.
	A hundred years to come?

We all within our graves shall sleep,
	A hundred years to come?
No living soul for us will weep.	
	A hundred years to come?
But other men our lands will till,
And others, then, our streets will fill,
While other birds will sing as gay,
As bright the sunshine as today,
A hundred years to come? 
						The Advance.


[Column 1]
SCHOOLS OF MUSIC.
*	*	*
	Among the Greeks we first know of music as
connected with their dances; the dance regulat-
ing the rhythm of the accompanying music
[Column 2]
and poetry. From these semi-barbaric religious-
services the singing came into possession of the
early Christians; its character became changed,
and finally we have it developed into the in-
comparable masterpieces of the early Italian
church. It grew side by side with its sister
art of painting, which was also fostered by the
church, and one has a definite idea of its rela-
tive place in musical history when viewing the
many beautiful works of great Italian painters
of that time; the celebrated Madonnas and 
altar pieces of Titjens, Correggio, Guido, and
others. And when, later, the reformation
came, making war against prevailing prin-
ciples, and setting up newer and more liberal
principles in place of those already existing;
then, too, music effected the same chauges,
and musical religious art reached its highest
revelation in Bach and Handel.
	But before going into Germany, which im-
mediately becomes necessary in order to dis-
cuss the more modern music, allow me a word
concerning Italian opera, the same Italian
opera about which we hear so much even nowa-
days. Let me quote the spirit of certain re-
marks by one of the clearest art critics of our
century. He says, in effect, “that after the
decline of the old, pure church music in Italy,
such as was heard in the time of Palestrina,
the introduction and development of operatic
nelody was a lapse into Paganism, and that
this same Italian operatic music, so far as any
artistic fitness or connection of words and music
is concerned, has erected such a miserable
temporary structure that the cultured musician
of to-day stands in sorrowful amazement before
this petty and childish art form, the narrow
boundaries of which condemn the greatest
genius among composers to a merely heartless
and formal conventionality.” No other task
was set before the composer than to write a
number of popular airs for the special voices
of the popular singers' of the hour. The
Italian opera consists of certain conventional
forms—a solo for the prima donna, a duet, a
trio, then a chorus, then a ballet; all equally
good from an artistic stand-point, and all
equally amusing to a volatile, impulsive, and
excitable populace. There have been many
operas from the later Italian composers which
have contained wonderfully pretty, taking airs,
and which have been extremely popular, but,
generally speaking, Italian opera has little to
do with the history of real art.
	And now, leaving the frivolities of the
Italian opera, let us go north into Germany,
for there it was that musical art received its
strongest impulses, and achieved its greatest
triumphs. It was there that the inexorable laws
and dogmas which bound and fettered musical
composition were taken up, expanded, enlarged
and infused with spirit and beauty of treat-
ment, giving us what is now recognized as the
German classics. Bach, Handel, Hayden, and
Mozart are generally conceded to be the types
of this school. Bach and Handel have already
been mentioned as the culmination of the re-
formatory,religious element in music. Hayden
developed the sonata and the symphony forms;
wrote “The Seasons,” “The Creation,” and
numerous orchestral and piano compositions,
complete in form, but without any of that
descriptive coloring which distinguishes the
later music. It was Mozart who took the
Italian opera, scanty in form and of conven-
tional structure, though it had reached a sen-
suous brilliancy in the mouths of talented
singers, and gave it its highest character
through German instrumentation and treat-
ment.
	I shall not attempt to give any extended
definition of the word “classical." It should
mean “first-rate,” standard, but its ordinary
use is for those compositions, great and beauti-
ful as they are, which were modeled, measured
and exhibited only according to old Latinized


rules and formalities of expression. Many in
hearing the word ‘'classical’' immediately think
of the work referred to as dry, and say they
don’t like classical music, and indeed, it is
difficult enough to interest even a musical
student with the symmetrical and constructive
beauties of classical compositions. Then be-
sides, we have in most cases only that very im-
perfect and unsatisfactory instrument, the
piano, for our interpreting means; and the old
masters wrote their formal sounds for weak in-
struments, compared to the heavy, noisy in-
struments we now have at our disposal. Most
of their piano music sounds hollow, tinkling,
and antiquated; although we might see in these
old sonatas artistic finish of form, beautiful
periods properly balanced, and a delicate sense
of form and formality. However, these men
in their compositions were so convinced of the
indispensableness of order and exact rule that
their fancy was always under the dominion of
those laws, even in their boldest flights of
originality.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE MOUSE IN THE PANTRY.
	An old man used to say to his grand-
daughter, when she was out of temper or
naughty in any way, “Mary, Mary, take care;
there’s a mouse in the pantry.” She often
would cease crying at this and stand
wondering to herself what he meant. She
often ran to the pantry to see if there really
was a mouse in the trap, but she never found
one. One day she said: “Grand-father, I don’t
know what you mean, I haven’t a pantry, and
there are no mice in mother’s because I have
looked so often.” He smiled and said: “Come,
and I'll tell you what I mean. Your heart,
Mary, is the pantry; the little sins are the mice
that get in and nibble away all the good, and
that makes you sometimes cross and peevish,
and fretful. To keep them out you must set
a trap—the trap of watchfulness.—Woman
and Home.


The death of two great literary lights like
Martin Farquhar Tupper and Robert Browning
so near each other leaves, Tennyson almost alone
in the field of English poetical fame. Tennyson
was born the same year as Tupper, 1810, and
Browning in 1812.


LUCY WEBB HAYES ASSOCIATION.

Mrs. E. B. Wells: 
						Washington, D. C.
						     Nov. 19. 1889.
My Dear Madam!
	The Woman's National Press Association Sept.
6th, 1889 carried the following motion:—Resolved
that we inaugurate a plan to erect a statue of 
Lucy Webb Hayes in this city—to further this
movement they called a public meeting of all
the woman’s organizations in the city. Discus-
sion has evolved and elaborated the plan into a
temple with a large hall for conventions, smaller
rooms for committees, clubs, etc. niches for
statuary or an art gallery where busts and por-
traits of great women could be placed, with a
drinking fountain and statue of Mrs. Hayes in
front of the building. The following committee
has been elected to correspond with prominent
women concerning a National Organization. Miss
Carrie Harrison, Miss Clara Barton, Mrs. Bishop
J. F. Hurst, Mrs. E. M. S. Marble, Mrs. D. S.
McKnight, Mrs. Annie E. Bovee, Mrs. Sarah D.
Le. Fetra, Mrs. Albertine S. Odell, Mrs. Sen. H.
M. Teller, Mrs. Dr. T. S. Hamlin, Mrs. E. A. V.
Anderson, Dr. Clara Bliss Hinds, representing
the Red Cross, Home and Foreign Missionary
Societies, W. C. T. U. Woman's Relief Corps.
G. A. R. Woman's National Press Association


and the Woman’s National Suffrage Association
We purpose having five thousand Charter Mem-
bers the same to elect the National Officers.
	The enclosed card filled and returned to the
secretary with five dollars will entitle you to a
Charter Membership Certificate by return mail.
Upon the cooperation of the women of the
country depends the success of this attempt to
organize the first Woman’s Monument Associa-
tion in America.
			Respectfully,
						Carrie Harrison.
						Chairman,
Dr. Clara Bliss Hinds.
1331 N. St. 				Secretary,


A VOICE FROM MESA CITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few items from this arid region
might possibly be interesting to your numerous
readers, I take the liberty to jot down a few, that
you may know that we are not quite used up by
the broiling weather we have experienced the
past summer. We are now enjoying most lovely
weather, and were it not for the frost which
visited us the beginning of November leaving the
footprints upon our fruit and shade trees, we
would scarcely believe that Christmas was so
near at our doors. Thanksgiving day was duly
honored by services being held in the morning
with a well arranged programme which was inter-
estingly carried out.
	But the most enjoyable affair of the season so
far and which I wish to note was our Old Folk’s
Party, which came off at the Mesa Hall the 29th
of November which was decorated beautifully, with
festoons of flowers, and evergreen, and beauti-
ful pictures, by the Y. L. A. of Mesa. It was a 
Stake affair, and all over 50 were invited, of
whatever sect or creed. Those from 50 to 60
were denoted by red ribbon, over 60 by blue, over
70 by white, and over 80 by gold color, the red
predominated.
	At 1 p. m. they all gathered with baskets of 
picnic, which was taken care of by a committee
appointed. Opened by prayer, and singing: Oh
my Father; by the entire company, after which
a very fine programme was carried out, consisting
of songs, recitations and speeches. Henry
Brizzee gave a brief sketch of the Mormon
battalion, their journeys and hardships. Brother
Charles Harper on the Mormon Exodus from
Nauvoo to Salt Lake, short spicy speeches
by C. I. Robinson, H. Rogers, C. R Hakes, M.
A. Hakes, interspersed with songs and recita-
tions occupied the time until 5 p. m. when all
felt like enjoying their picnic which was indeed
a very sociable enjoyable time. Dancing was
next in order. The floor was soon cleared, and
dancing commenced, which was kept up inter-
spersed with songs and recitations, until 10 p. m.
when all separated with many good wishes for 
each others welfare and for many happy returns
of the day; great credit is due to the committee
and young ladies for the able, and energetic
manner in which it was carried out. 
	Our R. S, building is looming up rapidly. We
hope to have it completed by New Year's day.
when a good dinner in the hall New Year's is
promised those engaged in erecting it, and the
consequence is, they are exerting themselves to
the utmost to have it completed. It is of brick,
size 20 by 40, feet 10 feet to be partitioned off for
a storage room leaving the main room 26 by 30
which is ample room for our society as it at
present exists. We feel quite elated at the pros-
pect of having a Hall of our own as we have
suffered great inconvenience in getting suitable
places to hold our meetings in.
	Ever praying for the success of the little paper


so ably conducted.  I am as every our friend and
sister.
								SARAH.


VALUABLE SOUVENIRS from Mormon
		       —Hill Genuine specimens of
Stone or Wood, 25c. Fine Photo, of Hill and spot
where the Golden Bible was found, 50c. Auto-
raph of Major Gilbert, who printed the first
Mormon Bible, 25c. Elegant Photograph of
Major Gilbert with Autograph Letter, 50c. ALL
of the above, $1. Guaranteed genuine. Send at
once. AGENTS WANTED.
	MORMON HILL EXCAVATION CO.,
				Main Office, PALMYRA, N. Y.

UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,     J. V. PARKER,
City Pass. Agt.	Div. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 
