VOL. 18.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1889.				No.	9.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah—A story. Death of a noted Eng-
lish Woman. The Dozen Greatest Poets. What
kind of Education will secure our Salvation.—M.
E. Teasdale. Commemoration of Historical
events. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL. Notice of Conference. Relief
Society Conference. More Severe Measures.
Editorial Notes. A Golden Wedding. Three
Quarters of a Century. Literary Note. To the
Suffrage Ladies.—Clara B. Colly. People's Plat-
form.
	Tennyson’s Birthday.—Ex. R.S. Reports. W.
S. A. Millard Co.
	POETRY.—The Infant Sister.—L. G.Richards.
Lines.—Emily H. Woodmansee.  Our Darling
Babe.—E. R. S.
	In Memoriam. Obituary.


THE INFANT SISTER.

	Let me see our Baby Sister 
Press my lips upon her cheek;  
	Isn't she a sprightly "fister"?
How her young eyes dance and speak!
	Telling us of happy Heaven,
Joyous message from above;
	As of follies all forgiven,
And of new born faith and love.

	Gently greet the youthful stranger,
Bid her welcome everywhere, 
	Help to shield from threat’ning danger,
Soothe her hours of anxious care.
	How her weary feet may blister.
In the rough and heated sand!
	Cheer her, aid her, brother, sister,
Take her kindly by the hand.

	Lead her bravely, firmly onward,
Though an infant, born to-day,
	Hopefully she reaches sunward.
For our “Y. L. M. I. A."
	Years ago was contemplated,
First, by Heaven inspired “Hope,"
	Such a birth—yet watched and waited
This fair child for strength and scope.

	When her elder sister ventured,
Eighteen years ago, to speak, 
	How, by some, her ways were censured!
Some have grown more wise and meek.
	Now the Infant and the Maiden, 
Side by side, in rosy youth,
	Clasping hands, with hearts love-laden,
Stand for ZION, GOD and TRUTH.
						L. G. RICHARDS.


LINES.

	Addressed to Sister S. J Cannon and to a mumber of
Friends assembled in honor of her fiftieth Birthday Anni-
versary. 
	Refreshing ’tis, to meet with those who love us,
		To find amid life's shadows, pure delight,
	Cheering, as when the starry orhs above us
		Shine out in splendor, and illume the night.

	Pure social influences cheer the soul;
		True friendships’ voice is like a soothing strain,
	Sweet sympathy, oft makes the spirit whole;
		Nor is Love's willing labor lost or vain.

	Christ's Law commends itself to generous hearts,
		"Each other's burthens," so called Saints should
			bear,
	Trouble and grief of many kinds and sorts
		Or more or less, we all are bound to share.


To day our friends are scatter'd far and wide
	Our "fireside circles," ruthlessly are riven;
Drifting on persecution's heaving tide
	From sweet home comforts dearest ones are driven. 

The true and just are counted lawful prey,
	Denounced as aliens or as traitors bold,
Are robb'd of Freeman's rights in open day
	A shameful sight for Freemen to behold. 

Yet, as the noted worthies heretofore,
	Who served as targets for the clamorous crowd
Counted as gain, the scorn and shame they bore;
	And in the midst of pain rejoiced aloud,

So Zion's children are and must be brave,
	Hopeful and humble, patient in distress,
Must trust in Him alone, whose power can save;
	Who surely will, His children's wrongs redress

God's own "peculiar people" tried yet choice,
	Can bid despondency to Hope give place
God's own "peculiar people" can rejoice
	Above all other's on the Earth's broad face.

In sacred circles, or at social feasts,
	God gives the pure of heart his peace profound
This natal Jubilee is proof at least
	Despite our troubles, cheerful souls abound.

From purest friendliness, convene we here
	And cordially as one we all unite
To pay respect to One beloved and near
	To honor this important festive night.

Dear Sister Cannon! needless 'tis to tell
	Your bark has breasted oft an adverse tide;
Yet, hosts of friends are yours, who wish you well,
	Who trust o'er smoother waters, yet you'll glide.

O may your days and years be lengthen'd out,
	To whatso'e'er extent you may desire;
And may, true love, encircle you about;
	And living Faith and Hope your soul inspire.
					Your Friend
						EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City, Sept. 11. 1889.


[Column 1]
HEPHZIBAH.
VIII.
		Once more good bye, to loving friends and dear;
			A fond adieu to meadows, groves and brook;
		Now other scenes, the lonely heart must cheer,
			Nor backward turn with one regretful look.

	The preparations for Hepsie's departure were
completed, and with a sorrowful countenance,
she heard the announcement that all was ready
for her journey.
	"I must go over all the dear places once
more, mother, and say good-bye perhaps for-
ever; there are hills to climb and golden rod
to gather, I'll wear a bunch of it; and in the
meadows there are daisies still, I'll have a hand-
full of them, tomorrow morning I must go to
the grove and hear the birds sing again, and
then the brook, I love so much, there are fine
ferns there, I'll take a few of those, and then
you know mother, I have so many friends to
part with, old and young, I'm going so far, and
it will be years perhaps, before I come back,
didn't you say so?"
	"Yes, I said you had better stay three or
four years there, but we shall come to see you
sometimes." 
	"But you can't bring all the lovely places
with you, O, I must go over them once more!"
	Her mother listened in astonishment, "why
Hepsie you've been at home for weeks, and
going here and there through the village, say-

[Column 2]
ing your tender things to young and old, and
roaming in the hills, filling the house with
Autumn leaves, and brown and yellow vines
and twining them about the rooms in your
own queer way; you cannot take such rubbish
with you, besides the hills there are full of
them; and you will be very near the river, the
beautiful Connecticutt."
	"Yes," interposed Marion an older sister
"but Hepsie loves our little brook here at home,
more than she will ever love the grandest
river, that's where she gets her inspiration
from!"
	"What to make verses," chimed in one of
the boys, "O yes, I know, she talks to herself
down there; I've often heard her, and she told
me that she believed, if there ever were true
fairies, they were in the hemlock grove, down
by that brook." 
	"Jamie you said you wouldn't tell," cried
Hepsie, and then she burst into tears. These
were her childish secrets, and she did not like
them told, not even in her own home.
	The mother heard the children talk on
among themselves, but she made no comment,
wise woman indeed, yet deep down in her heart
half-consciously a thought, a hope was lurking,
that some day Hepsie might be all her grandpa
had promised on the day of her birth.
	The evening was passed in talking over the
affair uppermost in the minds of all the family;
Hepsie's going away again to another school;
and each one had something to say before part-
ing for the night or some advice to give; and
many plans were laid for the morrow. Early
in the morning Hepsie and her brothers were
off to the grove to hear the birds sing, and
gather the ferns, and all day long, she was go-
ing hither and thither taking leave of all she
held so dear, outdoors and in. One might set
out for Egypt and the Nile in our day, and not
feel the breaking up and leave taking so much
as little Hepsie did, going away fifty miles to
school. Albeit Hepsie loved school, and
wanted to go, for she had "great expectations"
in her own way.
	We will not linger over the day, the last day
at home for a time, but simply state, there was
little eating, or sleeping among the children,
and Mrs. Hathaway was profoundly quiet.
Morning came and the house was soon astir—
it  was an Autumn morning and the trees were
many colored, the scarlet maples flashed in the
mellow sunlight, and the hills were fairly regal
in their gorgeous coloring.
	The parting was soon over, though many
tears were shed, and long after the coach was
out of sight, the children hung about the gate-
way, to try and catch one more glimpse of the
fine horses. Mrs. H. had entrusted Hepsie to
the care of a friend, who was going to the
county town whither Hepsie was bound, and
so she had no misgivings cencerning her safety.
The ride was simply delightful, and once she
ceased weeping, she enjoyed every moment.
The many colored hills and woods, the sumac,
mountain ash and maple, and other bright tints
of shrubbery were a perfect picture, as they
drove rapidly over the road; bridges were
crossed and hills climbed, pretty villages were
passed, and at noon the stage drove into a town
where there were a goodly number of Church
steeples, many large and handsome buildings;
on and on the stage rattled until the tavern
was reached; there the passengers alighted and
horses were put up. Dinner at the tavern, for
those who wished it, then fresh horses and


[Column 1]
another start—Hepsie had a delicate lunch
with her, and she could not even swallow a
little of that. A great sob was in her throat,
notwithstanding all her mental resolves, and
the beautiful scenes on every side. Her
mother's friend did not say much to the child,
and she was glad for her own thoughts were
company. Late in the evening they arrived
and found the sister and husband waiting when
the stage drove into town. Hannah took the
child in her arms embracing her too fondly al-
most, for Hepsie was not accustomed to such
caresses from grown people; and she scarcely
knew if she liked it; so "proper" had been her
training.
	Everything was new and strange, but this
time instead of an old romantic house and fur-
nishings it was altogether modern and stylish.
The sister plied the child with questions about
home, and the village folks, talking on of home
affairs until the tired girl was half asleep in
bed; then kissing her softly she left the room,
thinking to herself, what a sweet girl her little
sister had grown and how she had improved
since she had seen her last.
	When Hepsie woke she was thinking of the
ordeal she must soon go through of entering
school again. Her timidity was painful, and
she suffered much in her feelings that no one
knew, or would have guessed, she seemed so
composed outwardly. Hannah (or Mrs. Sever-
ance it was now) had promised to go with her
to see Miss Andrews the principal teacher, and
make all necessary arrangements.
	"O, what a beautiful woman! so sweet-man-
nered, and dignified, I'm sure I shall love her
quite as well as Miss Elliott, though she was a
'a most amiable person' (quoting Mrs. Grovse-
ner's words) but then I shall miss the club,"
said Hepsie, to her sister, after her first day at
the new school.
	"And who is Miss Elliott pray tell? You
know Hepsie you've been telling me about  Miss
Fay, who boasted of her brother at Yale, and
called you "opinionated, the girl in panta-
lettes" etc. I should like to know something
more about your 'club' what was it? All those
girls are to marry Ministers, Doctors, Lawyers,
or Professors of some sort. You too I suppose
entered into a compact did you?
	"Well, yes, we did, but then, I'll be too far away
now, to know what they do, of course they'll
write to me sometimes, Jane and Lucy will I
know, and as for Miss Fay, why she can't write
even an essay by herself.—”
	"Yon don't answer my questions little sister,
now please tell me first, who is Miss Elliot?
I'll begin at the beginning."
	"Miss Elliott was the Preceptress at the
High School at M—and a perfect lady; very
wise you know, but she couldn’t see everything
that was going on there, with all her learning.
She didn't dream that the girls were carrying
on flirtations under her very eyes, besides how
could she understand it, she was an old maid!"
	"O, then old maids are not supposed to be
wise in love matters, how is that?"
	"Mrs. Grovsener said single women had no
experience compared to one who married
and had a family, I don't think Miss Elliott
had even been in love, she was always so quiet,
and self-possessed, never betrayed any emotion
whatever happened in the schoolroom."
	"Little sister, I’m afraid your ideas are very
fallacious, especially about love; these giddy
school-girls have filled your head with non-
sense."
	"It wasn't the girls who gave me my im-
pressions, you know Hannah, I read all my
grandmother's love letters, in the old garret,
when I was a very little girl, she knew what
real love was; and then besides Mrs. G. a

[Column 2]
minister's wife, and a minister's daughter too,
she used to talk to me by the hour together."
	"Not about love I should think?" said
Hannah, "minister's wives generally are very
religious and serious, and they have work to do
that demands their time and energies, they
haven't much left for lectures on love."
	"Mrs. G. used to talk to me, Hannah in the
long evenings when the Rev. Erasmus was
asleep taking his rest and snoring, and she was
busy sewing, mending or darning always."
	"And pray what were you doing all the time
were you idle and she so industrious?"
	"O, no, I was making lace, or knitting, or
doing some little thing, Mrs. G. thought it a
sin to be idle, but sometimes when she was talk-
ing, I used to let my work fall out of my hands
to listen;—besides wasn’t I learning all the
time? she used to say, "Hepsie these are life-
lessons for you out of my own experience."
	"You are well posted about love perhaps
from reading love letters written ages ago, but
I must say I don't quite agree with you about
old maids, notwithstanding your authority on
the subject; I might differ with even a min-
ister's wife or daughter; their opportunities are
often very limited for observation. Our family
have lived within a stone's throw of the par-
sonage all our lives, and since my remem-
brance there have been half a dozen different
ministers engaged to preach in the village
Church, I don't think either of their wives knew
much about love; but never mind discussing
these opinions now, tell me about Miss Fay?
she seems to have antagonized you.”—Miss Fay
is as proud as a peacock and wears handsome
dresses, and elegant hats, and all that,—but
she was very glad to get "the girl in panta-
lettes" to help her get her lessons." "But
Hepsie that isn't telling me who she is?" "May
be not, but at school we didn't know much
about that, we judged the girls by their de-
portment, and what they could do;—however I
know all about Miss Fay, she's 'Squire Fay's
daughter, they live at M.—have a fine house;
she is not pretty, and I don't believe they're
very great people; Mrs. Grovsener didn't care
for them at all, she said Mrs. Fay was not a
lady,' though the 'Squire is a very influential
man in the town."
	"It appears to me you're always quoting Mrs.
G. but tell me hasn't Miss Fay another name,
you always speak of the other girls of the Club
as Jane, Lucy, Sarah and so on, how is it?"
	"It was always Miss Fay at school, she's an
only daughter—and her name is a very odd
one, Mehitable, her father calls her Hettie."
	"Mehitable, that's as ugly a name as yours!"
	"Hephzibah is a very grand name, Hannah,
and just think of the lady I'm named for—
what a superior woman she was, and every one
loved her. Hephzibah Hastings, afterwards
Hathaway—a curious combination of names
three grand ones together."
	“I am very glad you like your name little
sister; it don't make much difference, but I
remember how we all cried when grandpa
named you, such a sweet baby, you were."
	"And now I've grown out of the sweetness
I supposed and am full of all sorts of outre ideas,
and not a bit like other girls, that's what I 
often hear, the Club girls said that was the rea-
son they invited me to join them, not very
flattering either."
	This conversation and other similar ones
from time to time gave Mrs. Severance an in-
sight into Hepsie's character, though the child
was very careful never to talk when Mr. S.
was present—she did not like him, though she
had no good reason to give, and somehow she
never liked to mention him to her sister; she
could not understand how it was her sister had
chosen him, and yet they seemed perfectly sat-
isfied with each other.
	Hepsie was fast developing now, and her
originality made her a most agreeable com-

[Column 3]
	panion, and her progress in her studies was
very remarkable. Occasionally she received
letters from the "club girls" as she called them
but they were full of their beaux, and Hepsie
was too far off to have the same interest in their
affairs as formerly. Her sister's husband was
a musician, and Mrs. S. a fine singer, and in
the winter evenings a few friends, musical ones,
were in the habit of meeting there for recrea-
tion. No parties, no theatres, no public gather-
ings for the girls were allowed. Miss An-
drew's girls were entirely under her control
in this respect, as much as if they lived under
one roof. She was their escort over the hills,
through the woods, or river paths. She too
was musical in her tastes and a magnificient
singer, so she sometimes allowed herself an
evening at Mrs. Severance's much to Hepsie's
delight, for then she felt she had her teacher
all to herself, selfish love, and Miss Andrew's
partiality for the child was readily seen on
these occasions, in fact she scarcely talked of
anything else; she was very very fond of Hepsie
as well as very proud of her as a student.
And it was at this school Hepsie's compositions
and essays, and the comments made upon them
by the teachers created quite a sensation and
awoke considerable envy among the less for-
tunate girls. But we must not linger too
long over details, for we are reaching the
important period, the turning point in the
future life of this romantic school girl.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEATH OF A NOTED ENGLISH-
				WOMAN.

	The death in the early days of September
of Miss Caroline Ashurst Biggs causes regret
on both sides of the Atlantic for whoever
knew anything of the work for woman’s en-
franchisement in Great Britain knew of Miss
Biggs as one of its earliest, most efficient and
untiring supporters both with pen and speech.
She was the editor of the Englishwoman's
Review, the most substantial periodical pub-
lished in connection with the movement.
Miss Biggs had always realized the broad
scope of the movement for the political
equality of woman and given much attention to
social and industrial measures, and of late
years had thrown herself very ardently into
the effort to secure womens as Poor-Law
Guardians.
	Miss Biggs was related to the Hon. James
Stansfield, one of the strongest supporters of
woman’s enfranchisement in the British Parlia-
ment.


THE DOZEN GREATEST POETS.

	“Perhaps I may be permitted to recapitulate
the list of a dozen English poets whom I
ventured to quote as the manifest immortals
of our British Parnassus. They are Chaucer,
Spenser, Shakespeare, Milton, Dryden, Pope,
Gray, Burns, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron,
Keats, Shelley. It will be noticed that there
are thirteen names here, and my reviewers
have not failed to remind me that it is notori-
ously difficult to count the stars. The fact is
that Gray, the real thirteenth, was an after-
thought, and I will admit that, although Gray
is the author of what is perhaps the most im-
posing single short poem in the language, and
although he has charm, skill, and distinction
to a marvelous degree, his originality, his
force of production, was so rigidly limited
that he may scarcely be admitted to the first 
rank. No doubt the explosive force which
eggs a writer on to constant expression was
lacking in the case of Gray, and I yield him—
a tender babe, and the only one of my inter
esting family which I will consent to throw to
the wolves. The rest are inviolable, and I will
defend them to the last.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR DARLING BABE.

Beautiful sunbeam! come down from above,
To fill all our hearts with the sunshine of love,
To soften and melt the ice-bound high ways,
That have compassed our hearts for many long days.
Oh fair, lovely baby! come here to beguile
And allure from earth, our hearts, for awhile
Giving a glimpse of Heaven to our vision,
And foretaste of pleasures purely Elysian.

How comely and fair thine innocent face,
Thou dost find in all hearts the tenderest place,
Thy presence so soothing—angelic its charms!
I feel nearer Heaven with you in my arms.
We welcome you here in our hearts, in our home.
And say: "Little darling we're glad you have come;"
"O may you remain long, to comfort and bless!"
We kiss your fair brow—and tenderly press
You close to our hearts—and say: "Precious one,
Welcome, thrice welcome to hearts and to home!"

But while these fair thoughts pass through the brain,
A tinge of regret the bright pictures stain—
When we think of the struggle with life, and its cares,
Its sorrows and pains, temptations and snares.
Instinctively pressing thee fondly and close,
We fain would protect from each cold wind that blows.
Exclaiming: "O cannot our love prove to be
A safegaurd 'gainst ills that may over take thee?"

How naturally would we, had we the power,
Strew all thy pathway with beautiful flowers.
We would ne'er let thy heart feel sorrow's cold blight,
But fill every hour with joy and delight,
Bnt no, indeed no! that never would do!
Our fond selfish love would thus deprive you
Of a heritage greater, and holier far—
One that differs as much as the sun from the star,
And this is Experience bitter and stern
By which all the best things in this life we learn.

We know there's a work for those small hands to do,
The feet must not falter, the heart must keep true,
The judgment mature, and intellect grow,
While you through this world unflinchingly go.
And with all the wishes that mothers could make—
That you of life's sorrows may lightly partake,
I would pray to the Father for knowledge and light,
Invoking His spirit to guide you aright,
To direct thy young feet through all thy youth,
In Wisdom unto the fountain of Truth.
							E. R. S.—M. D.
Sept 9th 1889.


WHAT KIND OF EDUCATION WILL
		SECURE OUR SALVATION.

	"The glory of God is intelligence.” “We
cannot be saved in ignorance,” Are express-
ions often used by our public speakers. But
they do not always tell us what kind of knowl-
edge is necessary for our salvation. This is
to all of us a very important question. If
our salvation depends upon our education or
the knowledge we obtain in this life. I say it
is of vital importance to us, that we should
know of a certainty, what kind of education
is required, that our time and energies may
not be expended in the wrong direction. If
it is a college education or to become pro-
ficient in the arts and sciences of the day,
that is meant, what will become of the millions
who have and who now inhabit the earth, who
have not had the privilege of attending
these places of learning? A just and loving
Father would not make that kind of in-
telligence a condition of salvation unless it
was within the reach of all to obtain it. There-
fore it must be something else that is meant.
	I think the education repuired to save us,
is the education the gospel of Jesus Christ
gives those who practice its principles.
	This gospel which is a perfect plan of life
and salvation, is offered without money and
without price to all the inhabitants of the 
earth. And it is within the reach of every
one. The poorest and most humble can


receive this kind of education, this intelligence,
as much as the wealthy, and go on from one
principle to another until they find themselves
in the Celestial Kingdom of God, graduated
if you will allow the term, from ignorance and
dense darkness into the light and intelligence
of celestial beings. All other kinds of edu-
cation fall into insignificance compared with
this. Does not the Bible say, “to know God
and His son Jesus Christ is eternal life?”
	The Gospel is so plain, that it was said by
the Savior, “that a way-faring man though a
fool need not err therein.”
	Joseph Smith was taught of God and was
transformed from an unlettered youth, into
an intelligent, educated, polished gentleman;
the peer of the noblest the earth possessed, in
worldly wisdom, such as men boast of to day;
besides his wonderful spiritual gifts pertaining
to his position as the mouthpiece of God.
Proving the truth of the scripture, which
says “seek ye first the Kingdom of God and
its righteousness and all else shall be added
unto you.” This shows that a person loses
nothing but gains much, by devoting his time
in acquiring a Knowledge of his creator and
how to regain his presence. My dear sisters
it is our privilege to have this great edu-
cator, even the Holy Ghost, to be our constant
companion. It will teach us of our duties
warn us of danger, and be a lamp to our feet
and a light to our path. Girls let us repent
of our follies and light-mindedness, and live up
to our privileges, that we may enjoy the in-
spirations of God and receive revelation for
ourselves. Pres. Woodruff said at the Y. M’s
conference, that it is the privilege of every
man, woman and child old enough to under-
stand such things to receive revelations for
himself. What a priceless boon. It is worth
living for. Girls try to live for this, and when
choosing your life companions, remember it is
your privilege to know the will of the Lord, in
this all-important matter. That God will
bless the youth and incline their hearts to
seek after him, is my earnest prayer.
						M. E. TEASDALE.


COMMEMORATION OF HISTORICAL
			EVENTS.

IN HONOR OF HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe’s infirmities pre-
vented the famous authoress acknowledging in
person the testimonial extended to her this
afternoon. The affair was at the opera house
which was full to overflowing with the most
fashionable audience that has assembled there
for years. The testimonial took the shape of a
national pageant with a series of tableaux, rep-
resenting events and periods in American his-
tory, bringing to the foreground in a specially
strong light the achievements of American wo-
men and the events associated with the work
upon which Mrs. Stowe’s fame so largely rests.
The aged lady could not attend and was imper-
sonated by her sister, Mrs. Isabella Beecher
Hooker in a tableau in which it had been
hoped she could take part, “The writing of
Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
	Physically Mrs. Stowe is stronger than a
year ago, but mentally she is a little child.
The testimonial has been discussed with her,
but it interested her only as in her girlhood,
she might have been pleased with the prospect
of a new toy or a day’s pleasure.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, acting as histo-
rian, brifly introduced the tableaux which were
divided into four periods, viz: Ante-Colonial—
Columbus at the Court of Isabella.
	Colonial—Landing of the Pilgrims; The
Banishment of Annie Hutchison (this was from
Boston, in 1637, for discussing doctrinal ques-
tions); The Hiding of the Connecticut Charter.


Revolutionary period—the reception of
Martha Washington “(this included a minuet
by eight couples); “the Boston tea party;" the
battle of Bunker Hill, with British and Ameri-
can forces, represented by the Governor’s foot
guard and the Putnam phalanx; the execution
of Nathan hale; the reading of the Declara-
tion of Independence.
	National and reformatory period—the Bos-
ton broad cloth mob, representing the Boston
pro-slavery men who mobbed Garrison in 1835;
Anthony Burns returned to slavery; The de-
parture of Connecticut’s first regiment. the
Hartford companies of the Connecticut national
guard; Woman’s patriotism,” representing
nurses in the hospital; the emancipation proc-
lamation; the return of the Connecticut first
regiment, represented by Grand Army men;
Mrs. Stowe, writing “Uncle Tom’s Cabin;”
“Woman’s Sphere—1800,” being a New
England kitchen, with a mother and sixteen
children; “The Woman's Crusade,” represent-
ing a little band of women in Ohio, who in-
vaded the saloons and started the Women’s
Christian Temperance Union; “Woman’s
Sphere—1889,” with the professional and busi-
ness women of Hartford on the stage.
	The singing of Julia Ward Howe’s “Battle
Hymn of the Republic” closed the programme,
occupying over four hours. The audience
applauded almost every feature and encores
were frequent. Although given in the after-
noon it was the society event of the season,
and a large sum was realized for the further-
ance of enterprises in aid of women.
	Hartford. Conn., Sept. 24.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Woman’s Congress will be held in Den-
ver, October 8th, 9th and 10th.
	The annual meeting of the Pennsylvania
Woman Suffrage Aassociation will be held
October 24th and 25th.
	We have had the reign of man’s tyranny:
we have had the era of his chivalry and
generosity, now let people rise to the full
moral dignity of an American citizen and say:
“Let there be justice.”
	Women were admitted as delegates to the
Protestant Methodist Conference which met in
September in Wheeling, Virginia. It was
voted by a small majority. This is the denom-
ination of which Anna Shaw is a regular
ordained minister.
	Miss Anthony recently visited her mother’s
bridesmaid, Mrs. Annie Jenks Richardson at
her home in Cheshire Massachusetts. Mrs.
Richardson is 94 years of age but reads the
WOMAN'S TRIBUNE and keeps up her interest
in the progress of women.
	Probably the theory that voting would be
too arduous a duty for women to perform has
arisen from the fact that this seems to be such
an exhausting business for men. So many of
them after waking up and being lively on
election day are so used up, that they have to
sit around on dry goods boxes and sun them-
selves for months in order to recuperate.
								Ex.

	The 10th and 12th Sections of the New
Constitution of Montana reads as follows:	
	SECTION 10.—Women shall be eligible to hold the office
of county superintendent of schools or any school district
office, and shall have the right to vote at any school
district election.
	SEC. 12.—Upon all questions submitted to the vote of
the tax-payers of the state, or any political discussion
thereof, Women who are tax-payers and possessed of
the qualifications for the right of suffrage required by men
by this constitution shall equally with men have the right
to vote.”


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 			-			Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH. 
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
Salt Lake City, 		-		-		October	1,	1889.


NOTICE.

	The Sixtieth Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, will
commence at 10 o’clock, on Friday morning,
October 4th, 1889, in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake
City.
	The officers and members of the Church are
cordially invited to be present at the meetings.
				WILFORD WOODRUFF,
				GEORGE Q. CANNON,
				JOSEPH F. SMITH,
					First	Presidency.

		RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The first Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, Salt Lake City, on Monday October 7th,
commencing at 10 a. m.
	A cordial invitation is extended to the Stake
Presidents of the Relief Society and all officers
and members thereof, and also the brethren to at-
tend the meetings.
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
								President.
				JANE S. RICHARDS,
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
								Counselors.


[column 1]

		﻿MORE SEVERE MEASURES.
	The report of the Utah Commission as it ap-
pears in the telegrams from Washington, is much
more radical than heretofore. These commission-
ers make several new and startling recommenda-
tions. They feel in duty bound to urge upon
Congress still more stringent methods of putting
a stop to the practice of polygamy, and to do this
would have“the terms of imprisonment for unlaw-
ful cohabitation extended to at least two years
for the first and three years for the second of-
fense;” and in addition to this inhumane recommen-
dation, they also propose to punish women though
they have not stated just the extent of the term
for imprisonment leaving so much to the discretion
of Congress. The pain and suffering and sorrow
already entailed upon the women and children in
this Territory, does not seem to have had any
effect upon them; women have already been
punished for not testifying against themselves (or
their husbands) (which is the same thing.)
	Annie Gallifant the first woman sent to the
Penitentiary under the Edmund’s law, and whose
babe was born immediately after; then Belle
Harris separated from one little child took her
babe with her to prison, Nellie White who was
in a very delicate condition, was also kept there
awaiting the pleasure of the court to dismiss the
Grand Jury which they held over as long as

[column 2]

possible, Mrs. Argyle who was there until it
caused the death of her babe;—these are cases
well known to the public. The Courts in Utah
can already do such things as these and yet it is
not enough, to satisfy the Commission.	
	Besides cases of this kind when one thinks of
the homes broken up, the women and children
who have gone into exile to escape the indelicate
 questions and merciless proceedings of the Courts,
and their deputies and aids, the privation and
hardships consequent thereupon, and the many
deaths of women and children that have directly
or indirectly, been caused by the harsh methods
used by men, who have had the power to enforce
the Edmunds law,and the distress of mind almost
worse than death of others; who have seemingly
never regarded any more the feelings or con-
dition of Mormon women, than they would so
many animals; when one reflects upon these pro-
ceedings in the past and knows the results, and
then considers that still more is desired by men
right here in Utah who know all these facts, one
wonders what manner of men these commission-
ers are; they must belong to the class spoken of
in the Scriptures “without natural affection,” or
destitute of that feeling of philanthropy that
characterizes the greater portion of mankind.
	In addition to increasing the term of imprison-
ment for men they recommend that sentence to
hard labor be imposed also that they may not
spend the time of their confinement “in idleness
and in the glorification of their supposed martyr
dom.” It appears from this that the “Mormons"
even in prison are too happy to suit their wishes.
They would also have them excluded from mak-
ing location and settlement upon public lands,
and further that “the laws with reference to
immigration shall be so amended as to prevent
the immigration of persons claiming their religion
justified the crime of polygamy;” and more over
the Constitution should be amended so as to
further prohibit the practice of polygamy.”
	Truly these commissioners must have been
magnanimously disposed when they devised a
scheme to inflict if possible still more severe
punishment for religious belief. Is it not the
same spirit that existed in former days when
Daniel was not allowed to pray to God?
	Then the Presidents and Princes assembled to-
gether and concocted a scheme whereby the
King should make an inexorable law, that Daniel
should be caught in the snare. But that plot
did not succeed, and the God of Israel is as
able to deliver his people in this day as He was to
deliver Daniel; and the Latter-day Saints do
rejoice in the Gospel and are not afraid, expect to
obey the law, and wherever any infringement
upon the law is found, men are  brought before the
court and sentenced  All the persecution that
can be brought to bear cannot kill out belief; the
history of the ages repeats over and over again
this truth. Surely this people can with propriety
repeat the sublime words of the poet when they
read the report of the Utah Commission.
		“Man’s inhumanity to man
	Makes conntless thousands mourn,”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Notes of the Coeur d’ Alene country, and our
visit, will appear in next issue.
	The Territorial Fair will open October 2, at 12
m., with music by the band, prayer by Bishop O.
F. Whitney and an address by Governor A. L.
Thomas. The Fair will be formally opened after
the music and exercises by Bishop John R.
Winder, President of the Society.
	The Constitution which the Wyoming Conven-
tion have introduced and which is to be presented
to Congress at its next session, accords equal
political rights to men and women. This should


be positive proof that suffrage in that Territory
has been a success in the past, and the Congress
of the United States will have an opportunity of
considering a question of vital importance to the
women of the nation. 
	The Utah Woman's Suffrage Associations will
hold a Convention in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City on Monday, October 7, at 2 p
m. Delegates from each of the organizations in 
the Territory have been officially notified and are
expected to be present and take part in the pro-
ceedings. Addresses will be made by prominent
speakers. All members of the Associations in
the city or country are most cordially invited, and 
also all men and women interested in the sub-
ject.
	On Thursday evening October 26, the writer
had the pleasure of meeting with Sir Julian and
Lady Goldschmidt at the residence of Mr. and 
Mrs. W. B. Dougall in this city, where a few
ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
among the number had been invited to meet these
distinguished people who are on a visit to 
America. Sir Julian Goldschmidt is a Baronet, a
member of the House of Lords of the Parliament 
of Great Britain. Lady Goldschmidt herself is
an Italian born in Florence and devotedly attached
to her mother country; though she seems to have
a profound adoration for her illustrious Lord
and husband. She is a graceful figure polished
in manners, and charming in conversation; she
has the ease and elegance of the true lady, with-
out any of the ostentation and arrogance that
sometimes characterizes the nobility of England
and other lands. She seemed rather proud of
being the mother of eight daughters, and spoke
of her home and housekeeping with matronly im-
portance. Lady Goldschmidt however scorns the
very idea of woman's suffrage or even speaking
in public, and gave the same sort of reasons that
are constantly being used by its opponents. And 
yet she deprecated the flirting and coquetting of
women "in the best society" where refinement
and delicacy such as she alluded to are supposed
to prevail. The Lady is an accomplished
musician and though she only played one little
selection that evening her whole soul seemed to 
be in it. We were told she was a fine singer and
very much regretted not hearing her, but she de-
clared she did not remember one whole verse of 
any of her songs.


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	Mr. and Mrs. George Goddard celebrated their
wedding anniversary after fifty years, on Wednes-
day September 10, 1889, at their residence in this
city. The fiftieth anniversary is an event but com-
paratively few have the opportunity of enjoying.
On this propitious occasion there were present
their children and grandchildren something over
fifty in all and a few intimate friends. The affair
was somewhat informal, though toasts were given
and responded too, congratulations offered and
Mr. Hyrum Goddard in behalf of his brothers and
sisters in a happy manner and with an appropriate
and affectionate address made the presentation to
the father and to the mother each, of this large
family a gold watch suitably engraved. This
called forth a response from the parents, on the
mother’s part quite affecting. Bishop Millen At-
wood and wife were present and presented the
bride and bridegroom,each, with a gold pen a very
appropriate gift, with which they “may point a
moral or paint a tale,” as they must have material
for either in the experience of the long years they
have lived together. Other presents of value were
given, but friends are not estimated by gold values
but the intrinsic worth of true hearts and of this,
these good people have an abundance. Music,
singing, and feasting as well as conversation
characterized the gathering and doubtless this


Golden Wedding after fifty years was quite as joy-
ful as the first, though there was probably not so
much ceremony.
	Mr. George Goddard and Miss Elizabeth Harri-
son, were united in marriage on the 10th, day of
September, 1839, in the Church of St. Margaret
in Leicester, England, the ceremony being per-
formed by the Curate in the unavoidable absence
of the Rev. Andrew Irving, who was desirous of
being present to marry them himself.
	Brother and Sister Goddard recieved the Gospel
in Leicester their native place and came to
America in 1852, encountering many perils upon
the way. Four little ones were buried by the way
side, and one was buried in the fathomless
ocean. They have had thirteen children of whom
only five are living, yet the grandchildren are as
numerous accordingly as their own family were.
	The writer offers sincere congratulations to
Bro. and Sister Goddard,and trusts that the golden
bark that has safely breasted so many adverse
rides, may now sail smoothly onward until it
reaches that sure haven, where there are no more
fierce encounters with winds and waves,or troubles
and sorrows, and where there is a fulness of joy
forever.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY.

	There must be a certain satisfaction in being
unmistakably old. To be reverenced and looked
up to by your friends as having superior wisdom
and a wonderful experience; and having “the
whole landscape of life behind you and below
you,” as it were. This is naturally the condition
of Sister Presindia Kimball. On her recent birth-
day anniversary fifty or more of her dear friends
met at her residence as they have been in the
habit of doing regularly for seventeen years.
They were mostly veterans themselves, with a few
young women, who love to mingle with those
whose whole souls are absorbed in the Latter-day
work.
	One of these young girls Miss Gladys Wood-
mansee took the minutes of this meeting or
party, in order to preserve the many good things
said on that occasion and to be read when they
meet again.
	From these minutes we understand the spirit of
that gathering and it was the spirit of the Gospel.
Their hearts were inspired with love for each
other and the grand truths revealed in our day
by the Prophet Joseph. The gift of tongues was
given and the interpretation and the sisters re-
joiced in the manifestation of the smile and
approbation of the Heavenly Father made known
to them through these precious gifts.
	Blessings were pronounced upon Sister Kim-
ball for her comfort and many were the promises
made to her and all concided with her former bless-
ings given many years ago by Joseph the
Prophet.
	It would be impossible to give in detail the
proceedings of this goodly company and the
names of those who participated in the affair but
there was singing and prayer, speaking, and bless-
ings, and feasting both spiritual and temporal
and it was a day long to be remembered by all
who were present.
	The following poem was addressed to Sister
Kimball and read to the company assembled by,

				MRS. MARY ANN M. PRATT.
			Our love for you has brought us here,
		Although but few, we hold you dear;
			Your life has been a useful one.
		Continue till your work is done.

			Your many friends wish that your days,
		May not soon end, God bless your ways!
			And may life’s hours be long and sweet,
		To give you joy when e’er we meet.

			Your counsels, yea, we all have sought,
		As treasures dear that can’t be bought,


Your works of love unto the sick
And words of comfort to the meek.

	Are to your sisters, healing balm
Their troubled spirits you can calm;
	And many years may added be
As long as life's desired by thee.


LITERARY NOTE.

	The National Magazine is the name of the new
literary venture of Chicago, which begins with
the October number. It is published under the
auspices of the new "National University,” which
opens October 1st, of which it is the organ. The
first number will contain articles on literary, edu-
cational and scientific subjects, and a pros-
pectus of the University, which is said to be
modelled after the London University and has
extensive non-resident courses, teaching many
subjects by mail. Published at 182 Clark Street.


TO THE SUFFRAGE LADIES.

					Beatrice Neb., Sept. 1889.
	DEAR MRS. WELLS:
	The Woman's Tribune will be published in
Washington. D. C. after the middle of Novem-
ber announcement in next Tribune. This will
enable it to be more helpful in national affairs,
will you kindly urge upon those whom you think
would be interested as you have opportunity their
need of the paper. I am glad that Utah is
getting such a good waking up on the Suffrage
question and that it has so able a representative
as the Woman’s Exponent.
				Yours cordially
						CLARA B. COLLY.


[Column 1]
PEOPLE’S PLATFORM.
DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES.
	The People’s party of Salt Lake City, in con-
vention assembled, present the following.

DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES:
	The basis of free government is the right of the
people to govern themselves.
	The object of the Federal constitution is to
secure a free government to the people of the
United States, wherein all persons shall be pro-
tected in life, liberty and property and in the en-
joyment of every right essential to their happiness
and not inconsistent with the rights of others.
	We regard the Constitution as a sacred char-
ter of human liberty; we revere its principles and
declare our unwavering allegiance to the govern-
ment and laws made in pursuance of its pro.
visions.	
	The People’s Party has always upheld these
principles. It has maintained the right of local
self government. It has contended for the free-
dom and purity of elections. It has opposed
class legislation. It has promoted honesty in all
branches of the public service. It has main-
tained equality before the law. It has been
characterized by justice, prudence and fidelity.
Taxation has been uniform and lower in Utah
than in any other territory. There have been no
extravagant salaries, no jobbery, no schemes for
great bonded debts. Life and property have
been secure, morality has been fostered and vice
repressed. It is the party of conservative pro-
gress, commensurate with public necessities and
resources.
	Opposed to the People’s party is the self-styled
“Liberal” party, which professes to venerate the
Constitution while violating its fundamental
truths. It arrogates to its members the honored
name of Americans while seeking to deprive a
large class of American citizens of the substantial

[Column 2]
rights of freedom. Through its persistent mis-
representation the right of trial by jury has been
abridged and almost destroyed in this territory.
By procuring unrepublican test oaths and other
proscriptive legislation it has disfranchished many
citizens, because they would not support its men
and measures. For this cause only, it has 
succeeded in robbing the women of Utah of the
elective franchise after they had exercised it for
seventeen years. It has endeavored to supplant a
legislature elected by the people with a commis-
sion appointed by the Federal government. It
has sought to erect an insuperable barrier of
prejudice against the admission of Utah as a
state. It seeks to extend to this territory the
infamous enactments by which, in Idaho, thou-
sands of law-abiding citizens are stripped of every
political right, solely because of their member-
ship in an unpopular religious organization. It
avows, through its organs, its intention to procure
such Congressional legislation as will debar all
persons, who belong to that religious body from
acquiring title to any part of the public domain.
It is therefore destructive of popular liberty and
upworthy of the support of any just, liberal and
patriotic citizen.
	We believe that the supremacy of the “Liberal”
party means class disfranchisement, excessive
taxation, official extravagance, and laxity in public
social regulations, and that the supremacy of the
People’s party means equality before the law, rea-
sonable taxes, official honesty and prudence, and
the maintenance of the proud reputation of the city
for law and order.
	That the progress and improvements demanded
by the growth of the city may be secured we de-
clare that:

WATER.
1—	There must be a plentiful supply and fair dis
tribution of water for all needful purposes, let the
cost be what it may. This is absolutely indispen-
able to the health and happiness of the city. The
water mains should be extended as soon as possi-
ble to every part of the city.

STREET LIGHTING.
2—	We favor the speedy extension of street
lighting by gas or electricity to all inhabited parts
of the city.

SANITATION.
3—	We favor a through system of sanitation—
sewers for the business and thickly peopled por-
tions of the city, deodorization and removal of
foecal and all kinds of waste matter from other
parts, under the supervision of efficient officers.

STREET IMPROVEMENT.
4—	The grades and lines of all streets, water
ditches and sidewalks should be permanently
established; the corners of blocks and grades of
streets indicated by suitable corner-stones, and all
improvements made to conform thereto.
	The streets and sidewalks should be perma-
nently graded and improved,with good material,as
fast as possible upon an equitable and definite
plan, and all bridges and culverts should be the
full width of the streets and sidewalks.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
5—	We favor the erection of public buildings
adequate for present and approaching requir-
ments. But in order that the taxes may not be in-
creased for this purpose, and that the ordinary city
revenues may be used for water and other press-
ing requirements, the city surplus lands not dedi-
cated to public use should be sold as provided by
law, and the funds appropriated for public build-
ings in common with other improvements.

LETTING OF CONTRACTS.
6—	Public work should be let by contract to the
lowest responsible bidder.

RAILROADS.
7—	Good railroad facilities are necessary to the


growth and development of the city and con-
venience of its inhabitants.  But rights of way for
steam railroads through our streets should only
be granted where absolutely necessary, and then
in such manner as to cause as little injury and in-
convenience to the inhabitants as possible, and
only on the consent of a two thirds majority of the
owners of real property fronting on the street.  No
exclusive street franchises to railroads should
hereafter be granted, but all steam railroads com-
ing in or going out of the city in the same direc-
tion should so far as practicable use the same right
of way, and no side tracks should be allowed on
the streets.  Forfeiture of a franchise should fol-
low persistent neglect to comply with its terms.
No freight trains should run through populous
parts of the city and no cars should be unloaded
or left standing on the streets or sidewalks.
	All railroads should conform to the proper grade
of the streets, which should be kept graded up to
the top of the rails and the street crossings of all
railroads should be planked the full width of the
streets and sidewalks.
	We pledge ourselves to lend our aid and influ-
ence to induce all railroad companies now here to
join in the erection and use of a union depot for
passenger purposes, and to have their freight de-
pots on the outskirts of the city.
				POLICE.
	8—The police force should be neatly uniformed
and be extended so as to give protection to every
municipal ward.
		SUPPRESSION OF VICE.
	9—Gambling houses and houses of ill fame
should be suppressed, and both male and female
resorters to such places should be punished with
the full rigor of the law.
				LIQUOR.
	10—We are opposed to the traffic in liquor and
favor the highest license practicable, and the
strictest execution of the laws for its regulation.
		ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES.
	11—All the ordinances of the city should be
vigorously enforced.
		TAXATION AND PUBLIC DEBT.
	12—Taxes should be equal and uniform, and
limited to the necessities of municipal government,
economically administered, and to the making of
public improvements essential to the well being of
the inhabitants and consistent with the growth
and development of the city.
	It is just that future inhabitants who will enjoy
the benefits of public improvements should assist
in bearing the burdens of their expense. 
			CONCLUSION.
	The People’s Party pledges itself to this plat-
form, and to the maintenance and defense of con-
stitutional principles and the rights of mankind,
and will ever labor to promote universal liberty,
civil, political and religious.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]

﻿		TENNYSON’S BIRTHDAY.
	The eightieth birthday anniversary of
Alfred Tennyson was celebrated on Tuesday,
August 6th. The occasion was not celebrated
with noise and ostentation, but throughout the
civilized world it was remembered with re-
spect and reverence for the venerable poet, by
millions of warm admirers of his splendid
genius.
	Alfred Tennyson is undeniably the greatest
living poet, and is by many competent critics
regarded as the greatest of English poets, of
any age—always, of course, conceding the
pre-eminence of Shakespeare in the field of
dramatic literature. Like Goethe and Hugo
Lord Tennyson rounded out his fourscore
years without having suffered any serious
impairment of his intellectual vigor. The

[column 2]

second “Locksley Hall' and “Tiresias,” which
date back, respectively, but three and four
years, sufficiently sustain this statement, and
the new volume, announced to be published
during the coming fall, will doubtless supply
still further evidence of its truth.
	And what a period it is that this long and
busy life has spanned! “Waverley” was un-
published when Alfred Tennyson was born.
The best work of Wordsworth and Coleridge
lay just behind him, but his own boyhood wit-
nessed the publication of all or nearly all the
work of Byron, Shelley, and Keats. Yet
when the time came for his own appearance
upon the stage of letters these mighty voices
were forced to acknowledge the master chords,
and from the publication, in 1827, of the
“Poems by Two Brothers” to that of the new
“Locksley Hall”—“sixty years later,” in a
literary sense—English poetry has offered no
name to be compared with his. It is true that
for a score of years from the time when Tenny-
son’s first work was given to the public, the
figure of Wordsworth was the most conspic-
uous in English letters, but the period of
Wordsworth's noblest productivity was over
before Alfred Tennyson came into the world.
For upwards of sixty years, then, his has been
the great name of our contemporary literature;
recognizable as such by many from the ap-
pearance of the lyrical volumes of 1830 and
1833, and by all having any competency of
judgment in the matter from the appearance of
the volumes of 1842.
	It may be said of Tennyson that one of the
secrets of his power is this: that he has never
cheapened himself by too frequent and indis-
criminate utterance. His work is finished
as the work of no other English poet
is finished. Of the six or seven hundred
closely printed pages which contain that work
there are not ten that his most critical admirer
could wish unwritten. Restraint is the high-
est of all the literary virtues, and no poet has
ever shown more of it than he. But besides
restraint, which is after all a matter of
character, and besides finish, which is, after
all, a matter of industry, Lord Tennyson has
the genius for poetical expression, which is a
matter of neither character nor industry, and
which is the endowment of but one man
among millions. He has the power of ex-
pression in a pre-eminent degree; in the degree
in which Virgil has it; almost in the degree
in which Shakespeare has it. His readers
hardly need to be reminded of this, or to have
indicated for them any of those countless
felicities of expression which abound in his
works; those expressions of which “In
Memoriam,” for example, is so prolific.
Shakespeare and Milton are the only other
English poets whose style will as well and as
uniformly repay the closest examination.
	This much of the form of Lord Tennyson's
poetry; but something remains to be said of
the matter, for it is not by mere technical
perfection of workmanship that he has gained
his place in our regard. His matter is,
briefly, that which lies closest to the hearts
of all men of the English race, and appeals
to the deepest instincts of their natures. The
domestic affections and the sanctity of the
home, a patriotism not narrowed into selfish
disregard of the rest of mankind and a
religious feeling too broad to be fettered by
any creeds and too profound to be agitated
by the surface currents of thought; these are
the themes of one who is no mere laureate by
royal favor of a court and a dynasty, but
the laureate by divine right of genius, of all
serious men and women of all our race. A
conservative of the finest type, he is no
reactionary, set upon barring the steps of
progress. A champion of the existing order
embodies the hard earned fruits of the long
struggle for light and justice, which is Eng-

[column 3] 

land’s proudest title to a place in the fore-
most page of history, his eye has ever been
keen to perceive “the vision of the future” and
his mind to recognize the fact that always, in
any age not hopelessly stagnant, “the old
order changeth, giving place unto the new.”
The liberty which is not license, and the reason-
able orderliness of life which accepts law with-
out chafing, and which is alone made really
possible by its acceptance of law—“acting the
law we live by without fear”—this is the social
ideal which he has persistently held up before
the English-speaking world during these sixty
years.
	To the individual Lord Tennyson’s message
has been consistent from first to last. The
message is not the most hopeful one that has
come to us, but it is the best, perhaps, that our
age is capable of heeding, and it is assuredly
the weightiest borne by any of our contem-
poraries.
	The most thoughtful men among us are
coming to feel more and more, with our poet,
that “we know not anything,” and that

	We can but trust that good shall fall
	At last—far off—at last to all,
	And every winter change to spring.
								Ex.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

		SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th,
Ward Assembly Rooms in this city Thursday
September 12, 1889.  Mrs. M. Isabella Horne
presiding.  On the Stand were seated her
Counselor Helen Mar Whitney and of the
officers of the Central Relief Society Board
Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith and Secretary
Sarah M. Kimball and Stake Secretary Eliza-
beth Howard, and many of the Presidents of
branches in the Stake.  Meeting opened by
singing, “O, Jesus the giver of all we enjoy.”
Prayer by Mrs. Diana Reed.  Singing “Where
the voice of friendship’s heard.” Twentyfour
presidents, five counselors, and one teacher re-
sponded to the roll call.  Minutes of last Con-
ference read and accepted.
	Mrs, Hannah E. Crosby of St. George ad-
dressed the sisters.  She spoke of her arrival
in the valley in the first company that fol-
lowed the pioneers in 1847—was one of the first
ten wagons of the first hundred, and camped
on what is now known as pioneer square in the
15th Ward. “We had no houses then but we
soon made homes, we were called to St. George
27 years ago and we have now a pleasant
home.  I have quite a family of boys.  I do
not know how it would have been had I
raised them here in this City as it is now. I
am thankful they are all faithful members of
the Church.  Our Relief Society is about in the
same position as yours here, and our reports
are about the same.  We have a Temple as
you know, and we as a Society do a great deal
in that direction, and have made carpeting to
supply the building and renewed it again, each
branch will make a bunch of the warp. We
enjoy ourselves working in the Temple and in
our other duties.”
	Pres. Horne was glad the Society of the
Stake had made such good reports and each
one been so prompt in the duties pertaining
thereto; thought the sisters would need all the
spiritual strength they could get, to live through
the trying times; said “we will need to live our
religion that we may be enabled to endure to
the last, and let us cultivate wisdom and
patience, we require these gifts.” She was
pleased that the Relief Society was taking an
interest in storing grain, urged the necessity
of taking good care of it. “Let us pray for
the wayward that they may return to the fold


[Column 1]
of Jesus; the Lord will seek after them if  we
do our duty in this respect."
    Conference was adjourned to 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, "The time is far spent &c."  Benediction
by Mrs. B. W. Smith.
    Afternoon session:    Counselor H.M. Whit-
ney presiding.    President Zina D.H. Young
on the stand.  Singing "Our God we raise to
Thee."  Mrs. Whitney addressed the meeting.
"We are working for the future, and we are
seeing the fulfillment of the words of the
prophets;  the power of evil is increasing; let
us have a true testimony for ourselves that we
know this work is of God."
    Pres. Z. D. H. Young, "we are blest in com-
ing together that our spirits may be clothed
with the robes of righteousness.  I have been
to Logan Temple, it is precious to me to set
my foot in that sacred spot, those who have the
privilege of going there are blessed indeed.
Our children are ours forever, throughout all
eternity if we are faithful, we have to be tried
and proven, and we will come to that spot, where
we will say "Father it is me and He will give
us grace when we trust in Him."
    Mrs. S. M. Kimball, "I am much interested
in our reports I realize we are a growing peo-
ple, our borders are enlarging."
    "In attending divine service while visiting
in the East I noticed there were many more
women than men and very few children."  She
then gave an interesting account of admin-
istering the Sacrament in sectarian Churches;
and also of the centennial celebration of the
town where she was born, and where her family
had settled in an early day; heard the Rev.
Talmage speak, he told the people nothing
about the plan of salvation.  Sister Kimball
also visited the Hill Cumorah saw the place
where the records were given to the Prophet
Joseph; she also went to the Temple lot in
Independence and saw a gentleman there who
told her "there would be a beautiful Temple
erected there and then we would all come to
the unity of the faith."
    Mrs. R. R. Grant spoke a short time and
referred to her reading the history of the
Prophet Joseph, "his sayings are well worth
our studying.  Let us cultivate the spirit of
charity, let us speak of each other's virtues and
not the weaknesses; we covenant to sustain
the anointed of the Lord.  Let us see that we
do this and speak evil of no one."
    Mrs. M.A. Hazon, Pres. R.S. Brighton, Mrs.
Martha B. Young, Mrs. M. A. Freeze, Mrs.
Elizabeth Mc'Donald of  Arizona, Mrs. Har-
mon, Mrs. Brimley, Mrs. Sarah  Gibson, Pres.
R. S. Sugar House Ward, Mrs. M.A.Lambert
Pres. R. S. 7th,  Ward Salt Lake City, Mrs.
Jane Miller, Pres. R.S. 20th,  Ward Salt Lake
City and Mrs. M. A. E. Watmough each made
a few remarks full of faith and encouragement
and bore strong testimony to the divinity of the
Latter-day  work. The gifts of the Gospel
rested upon some of the sisters in a goodly de-
gree.
    Conference adjourned to December next.
Singing. "Praise to the man &c." Benedic-
tion by Elder Theodore Curtis.
					E. Howard, Secretary.
			Y. L.M. I. A.
    ( The Quarterly Conference of the Young
Ladies Associations of Salt Lake Stake was
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this
city Friday Sept. 13, 1889.  Mrs. Mary A:
Freeze presiding.)  Meeting opened by singing,
"We thank Thee O God for a prophet."  Prayer
by Miss Edith Sampson, continued singing
"I'll serve the Lord while I am young."
General Report was read including twenty as-
sociations, showing them to be in a thriving
condition.

[Column 2]
Pres. Freeze addressed the meeting felt that
the young sisters had come with prayerful
spirits and if prompted by the Holy Ghost each
one would receive that which would do her the
most good.  Counselor M. Y. Dougall of the
General Presidency of the Association urged
the young ladies to attend their meetings and to
pray for a testimony and it would be given
them, explained how she had received one for
herself, and entreated the young sisters to rise
to their feet and say a few words and courage
and strength would be given them; referred to
her belief in the other world and the great work
to be done, exhorted the girls not to be ashamed
of the Gospel but be faithful to our belief and
keep the commandments that have been given.
Advised those who had joined with the Young
Men's association to have their Secretary keep
a strict report of all the young ladies part in
the Conjoint meetings.
    Counselor Mary P. Young spoke of the fear
she had to speak, but always responded when
called upon, she testified that her heart and soul
were in the Latter-day work.  Mentioned her
recent visit to the Logan Temple and how
happy she felt in her work there, exhorted the
young people to be married in the Temple and
begin life aright, never let their affections go
out in the wrong direction, but pray to be
guided by the Holy Spirit, never allow our-
selves to speak of the faults of our loved ones.
    Pres. Freeze made a few remarks upon
solemnizing one's thoughts before going into a
meeting, thought we should not talk or laugh
on our way to a meeting but should concentrate
the thoughts of our hearts upon sacred things.
    Sister Lillie Freeze said the sisters are very
practical in their teaching, speaking of home
and the training of children; thought each one
should have a testimony for herself and not
rely upon any other, "if we have faith we will
be willing to make any sacrifice required of us;
we should lay a good foundation for our child-
ren;" warned the young ladies against seeking
any means but a prayerful one to learn of the
future, etc.
    Sister Jane Freeze spoke of the timidity the
sisters felt when rising to speak, but advised
them to keep on trying and the Lord would
help them, thought that by speaking in their
own meetings they would gain courage.
    Pres. Freeze then requested all the young
ladies to become missionaries in the several
wards to impart the good instructions we had
received today to others.
    Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m.
Singing, "Come let us anew &c.," prayer by
Sister Sarah Mitchell.
    Afternoon session:   Opened by  singing,
"Joy to the world &c.," prayer by Mrs. Maria
Holt, after singing again the officers of the
Stake were presented and sustained as follows:
Mary. A. Freeze, President, Nellie Colebrook,
Mary P. Young, Counselors, Dr. Maggie C.
Shipp, Edith Sampson, Maria Holt, Clara S.
Carlisle and Jane Freeze Assistants.  Lizzie
Smith, Secretary, Minnie H. James Assistant
Secretary, Lizzie Greene, Rec. Secretary, Ella
Dallas, Cor. Secretary, Dr. Romania B. Pratt,
Treasurer.
    Counselor Nellie Colebrook addressed the
meeting, spoke of her long absence from the
meetings, it seemed as though she had been
asleep; thought we appreciated our friends
when separated from them, during her absence
had  noticed how few keep the Sabbath day
holy.  Urged the young ladies to consider the
importance of this and resist the temptation to

[Column 3]
desecrate that holy day.  "Let us work with a
will, bury our selfishness, pray earnestly for a
foregiveness of our sins and for charity, faith
to stand firm in our religion, that the links we
form here may  last throughout the ages of
eternity."
    Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, always believed that
a lady will be respected in all places, and en-
treated the young women with all her power of
pursuasion to deport themselves as Saints no
matter where they were or with whom associ-
ated.  Thought we should be interested in
every young lady in the City or Country and
try to do them good.  "There is work enough
for every energetic whole-souled Latter-day
Saint woman.
	Counselor B. W. Smith, "we should avoid
even the appearance of evil and not suffer our-
selves to be led astray by beautiful words, flat-
tering though they may be.  I have been in the
Church 55 years and have never seen the time
when I felt it would do to associate with the
frivolous.   You young girls are laying a
foundation for future peace and happiness or
misery; rely upon God who can guide and
protect you in all places. The blessings in store
for the good and faithful are beyond our com-
prehension."
    (Counselor Lillie Freeze, "Young girls when
forming their character's should give serious
thoughts as to what a character should be, it
makes little difference what others think of us,
so long as God is pleased with us."   Sister
Freeze then spoke in the gift of tongues and
Dr. M. C. Shipp gave the interpretation.
    Counselor M. Y. Dougall said she felt so
overcome in hearing the gift of tongues exer-
cised that she could scarcely control her feel-
ings.)   Felt that Satan had all his power cen-
tered here in Zion and we should guard against
it.    We should keep our children around us
and watch over them.  Our sons as well as
our daughters; win their confidence and affec-
tion, that they and all of us may make our
lives as perfect as possible.
    (Pres. Mary A. Freeze thought the testi-
monies received today should strengthen our
faith and make us better able to face the duties
of life.)  She desired the Associations to report
home-readings and urge and stimulate the
young ladies to read good books.
    Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing,  Doxology.    Prayer by  Clara  S.
Carlisle.
			Lizzie Smith, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. MILLARD CO.
	The regular quarterly meeting of the W. S.
A. of Millard Co., was held at Fillmore Aug.,
24.
	Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh presiding. The
meeting was fairly well attended, there being 
quite a few of the "sterner sex" present.
Prayer was offered by Thos. Gates Esq.
Minutes of last meeting read, and roll called.
The quarterly report of work done was laid be-
fore the meeting. The president stated what
were the duties pertaining to each office, and
the need there was, that all should work in
unity, and harmony.
	T. C. Callister, J. A. Melville, George Crane,
Thos. Gates and C. Anderson severally ad-
dressed the meeting, all speaking in favor of
woman’s rights, and freedom. The speakers
all paid their tribute to woman’s capabilities
and capacity for business, and her ability to
fill many offices hitherto held exclusively by
men, and pointing to the mark she had made
in literature, science and art as a proof of what
women could do, in other positions, if they were
educated up to the standard of men, their
mental capacity being fully equal to that of
their brothers. The speakers made some very
humorous and pithy remarks about women in


[column 1]
politics, but all were characterized by good
feeling, and made the meeting a successful,
and pleasant one. The president proposed a
vote of thanks to the gentlemen for their
presence and support, which was unanimously
carried. The meeting closed with prayer by
W. H. Stott.
	A meeting of the Millard Co., W. S. A. was
held in Holden Sept., 3. Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh presiding. The meeting was well at-
tended, there being a fair sprinkling of the "lords
of creation" present. The meeting was opened
by singing, prayer by Charles Wood. The 
president stated the object of the organization,
and the rights and privileges woman hoped to
obtain, especially the right to vote. This be-
ing the first meeting in Holden the Constitution
of the society was read, and the roll of mem-
bers called. The president then read a brief
sketch of Woman's Suffrage movement from its
commencement down to the present time point-
ing out many illustrious men and women who
had taken an active part in woman's struggle
for freedom and right. A. P. Harmon, Sydney
Teeples and Charles Wood, addressed the
assembly expressing themselves as being in
perfect sympathy with the suffrage movement,
and the undoubted right woman had to be
co equal with man, in social and political
affairs, and that woman was intended to fill a
higher sphere than that of a household drudge
and that she ought to be the peer and com-
panion of her husband. An interval was taken
for the enrollment of names, and the meeting
closed with prayer by A. P. Harmon.
	A meeting of the W. S. A. of Millard Co.,
was held at Deseret Sept. 10. Mrs. M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh presiding.  The meeting opened
with singing by the choir,

	"Do what is right, the day dawn is breaking
	Hailing a future of freedom and right."

Prayer was offered by J. Black. The Consti-
tution was read, and roll of members called.
The president stated what was the object of the 
organization, and the rights and privileges
sought to be obtained, and gave a brief history
of the movement from its commencement, spoke
in terms of the highest respect and praise of the 
many noble men and women who had taken
part in the movement, and given both their
time, talents, and money to help forward the
cause. She had taken part in many struggles,
that appeared even more hopeless than this,
but had lived to see them successfully achieved
and had not the slightest doubt that the equal
rights movement would be equally triumphant.
The meeting was addressed by J. Black, J.
Bennett, W. Black, L. R. Cupper and W.
Hawley, all except the last named gentleman
were in favor of woman suffrage, and equal 
rights with men. Mr. Hawley thought the move-
ment a new fangled idea imported from across
the water, and that it was unconstitutional,
against reason, and against nature that woman
should hold any position except that of house-
wife, with several other equally fallacious argu-
ments. The president replied demolishing his
statements, and said he had strengthened the
cause by the poor arguments he had brought
against it, as much, or perhaps more than any
that had been used in favor of it.
	Mrs. E. Whicker, Mrs. A. Hinder, Mrs. M.
Stocks, Mrs. F. Cupper, Mrs. F. Scott, Mrs.
M. E. Peterson, Mrs. I. J. Bennett and Mrs.
Cynthia Black addressed the meeting, all
speaking clearly and emphatically in favor of
women having equal rights with the
men, and expressed themselves willing to
render all the assistance in their power, to the
furtherance of the movement. An interval was
taken for the enrollment of members, during
which time Mrs. Meta Wells spoke briefly in
favor of the suffrage and exhorted all to enroll
[column 2]
their names, and help on the cause of right
and freedom. The meeting was a numerous
and enthusiastic one, many names were added
to the list of members. The president said she
had been well repaid for the journey to Deseret
that being the largest, and most encouraging
meeting she had attended in the County, and
thanked them for their support and sympathy
with the cause of freedom and right. The 
meeting was closed with prayer by B. W.
Scott. 	
					M. A. Y. G.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Character is like stock in trade; the more of
it a man possesses, the greater his facilities for
making additions to it. Character is power—
is influence; it makes friends; creates funds;
draws patronage and support; and opens a sure
and easy way to wealth, honor, and happiness.
—Hawes.


IN MEMORIAM
	Mary Emerette daughter of John F. and Mary Annie
Rupp Gerber born in Granger July 30, 1870. departed this
life August 26, 1889. The cause of her death was typhoid
pneumonia,  after a few day's illness while absent from
her home; her remains were brought home to her parents
in Granger and the funeral services were held at the Ward
house and conducted by Bishop D. Mc'Rae.  Suitable re-
marks were made  to  console  the mourners  by  Elders
John C Mackay, George B.  Wallace, and the Bishop.  At
the first organization of the Y.  L.  M.  I.  A.  of the Ward
deceased was chosen as first counselor she also assisted in
the singing and in the Primary Association and Sunday
School faithfully till she went away into exile.  She was
a constant reader of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT always
willing to learn some good, from her childhood, she was
affectionate to little children and a kind nurse to her
younger brothers and sisters. Her demise caused her 
family and friends much sorrow, and has cast a gloom 
over all that knew her intimately; she was a happy dis-
position, cheerful and patient under the many trials she was
called to endure, while absent from  her  home and loved 
ones.  Her comforting words to her mother were at all
times,  'do not worry over me, I am all right." She
passed away like a child going to sleep, without a struggle
true to her God and the faith she had embraced, and it
can be truly said of her she sacrificed her all  for the 
glorious hope which was within her;  she dwells now in a
holier sphere.  Rest, sweet rest at home in heaven.

		Dearest Mary, "thou hast left us
		Here thy loss we deeply feel
		But 'tis God that has bereft us
		He can all sorrows heal."

		"Soon again we hope to meet thee
		When death's gloomy night has fled
		Then again with joy we'll greet thee
		Where no bitter tears are shed."
									M. A.  R. G.
Granger Sept. 13th 1889


OBITUARY.

	Died at her father's residence, at Oakley, Idaho. Sept 3,
1889.  Annie M.  daughter  of  Horton  D. and Louisa
Haight.  Deceased was a noble daughter, and sister in
Zion holding many responsible positions in organized
Societies.  She was counseler in the Primary Association.
Assistant Teacher in Primary Department  of  S.  S.  A
member of the Ward and S, S. Choirs.  A diligent mem-
ber of the Y.  L.  M.  I.  Association.  An active member
of the Home Dramatic Club which was organized by the
desire of the Bishop.  She was true to her mother in the
performance of her duties at home.
	The amiable young lady would have been 18, yrs.
old the 17th of October next.
	May her sleep be sweet, and her resurrection among the
Glorious first and may the Lord minister comfort to the
heart broken family.
	Especially do we sympathize with Brother Horton D.
Jr. who is in his Master’s service in New Zealand.
				Yours Very Respectfully
					SARAH E. ROBINSON.
Oakley.


UNION
PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
Tickets 
ON SALE 
TO ALL 
﻿PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS, 	J. V. PARKER,
City Pass. Agt.	Div.	Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of	
DRY GOODS
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street	

DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence a class in
OBSTETRICS AND NURSING
On Monday, October 14, '89.
Course, Six Months. Tuition, $50.00.
For further particulars address
	DR. M. C. SHIPP,
		34 S. Seventh East Street.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from.
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of  Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
