Vol. 18			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1889.			No. 8.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah—A story.  Women Druggists in
Buffalo.  Notes and News.  Picnic in the Woods
—Aunt Em.
	EDITORIAL.  Notice of Conference.  Relief
Society Conference.  Justice to the People.  Edi-
torial Notes.  Half a Century.  Eighteenth Ward
Seminary.  Self Government.—Mary E. L. Neff.
Good Advice.—Miss Mary Anderson.	
	The Autorcrat at Eighty.  Mrs. Humphrey
Ward.—The Oregonian.  R. S. Reports.  Their
Ages.—Wm J. Bok.  Kossuth Growing Old.
Miscellaneous.
	POETRY.—My Baby.—H. The Kings Flower.—
Augusta Joyce Crocheron.  Thank God.—Lula.
That Lullaby.—Woodina. The Baby on Her
Arm.—Mrs. E. L. Ballard.
	In Memoriam.  Obituary.


MY BABY.

Loose the little, clinging garments,
	Smooth the curly, golden hair,
Wrap the soft, long gown around you
	Kneel to say the evening prayer,
			My Baby.

Sweetly kiss each waiting loved one
	Bid a happy fond good night;
In your little bed so cozey,
	Softly slumber 'til the light.
			My Baby.

May the angels guard you darling,
	Bring you sweet and happy dreams,
That the night [-]ay be as cheering,
	As the morning's bright sunbeams,
			My Baby.
	
Oh how bright seems all around you
	Even in the darkened room,
For your sweet and happy nature
	Is like sunshine after gloom,
			My Baby.

Oh my own, sweet little darling,
	May angels gifts to thee impart,
That your life with joys laden,
	Joys return to mother's heart,
			My Baby.				H.


THE KING’S FLOWER:
One early morn, from country fields
	The market gardeners came
With red ripe melons, “roasting ears”
	And fruits with cheeks aflame,
And one great wagon stopped, while spoke
	The good wife at my gate,
"Will you have something ma’am today,
	The things are all first rate?”

“I think I will; but would you like
	A handful of my flowers?
I’ll gather chiefly buds, they’ll bloom
	At home in a few hours."
“O, thank you!" Then she looked around
	As though she something sought,
And then knelt down beside a plant
	Her earnest gaze had sought.

She clasped her bands just like a child
	That finds some joyous thing,
And in her smile and native tongue
	Strange gladness seemed to spring;
Then while I watched in silence, she
	Looked up tears in her eyes—
“I smelled it and I’ve found it here—
	Ah me, such glad surprise!"

[Column Two]
“And do you love this flower, then,	
	For it seems dear to you?
It is the fragrant mignionette
	And neither rare or new."
“Yes, lady, but in mine own land
	This flower's loved by all,
It grows in windows small and low
	And round fine houses tall;

“And those who cannot buy a plant
	And dare not ask for one,
Can go and breathe its perfume sweet
	Out in the warm bright sun,
For in long beds inside the fence
	That guards the royal grounds.
And in sweet patches o’er the lawns
	This sweet green plant abounds.

“There rich and poor alike may reach
	And pluck at certain hour.
These fragrant sprays. He loves them so,
	We call them—‘the King’s flower.’"
“Now tell me if you know this one
	So modest, small and blue."
Again she smiled: “Oh all the world,
	I think knows this one too;”

“I don’t know what you call it here"
	She said as her eyes met me,
“But in my land so far away
	We call it, “don’t forget me!"
“Oh, gather all you wish my friend.
	And, see these small plants, too.
That spring in plenty from the seed,
	I’ll take them up for you."

I doubt if maiden blooming bright
	And decked with love [---] care
A brighter smile of happiness
	Upon her life could wear.
She placed both plant and flowers wit
	Safe place from sun or shower,
Whisp'ring as though to some loved child:
	"Mine own,—Mine King's own flower!"

Smile at the country teams and folk
	But I shall ne'er forget
The lover's own 'forget me not'
	And the King's Mignionette.
And when I see that wagon pass
	There comes o'er me again,
A dream of romance, royal grace,
	And she—queen of the train.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Bountiful, August, '89.


HEPHZIBAH.
				VII.
	In youth’s sweet Spring time, O, how grand and true,
		The aspirations of a fresh young heart;
	And the bright vision, fancy opes to view,
		Strange forecasts of the future life impart.

	While Mrs.  H. was at the seaside with her
little daughter, she tried to make a study of the
disposition and temperament of the child, and
her maternal love for the little one deepened
more and more, as she carefully watched her
day by day and found her exceptionally bright
and knowing.  She took counsel with herself in
the matter, and considered it well, for she saw
plainly that an ordinary education would not
satisfy the intense longing, that Hepsie mani-
fested for something beyond what seemed to be
quite sufficient for her young companions.  The
mother learned from Hepsie herself in a sort of
desultory way, (for she would not have thought
it proper to tell her she had such wonderful
ideas of confidence and friendship) that the
[Column Two]
older girls who had been Hepsie’s classmates 
at school, were meditating  matrimony,  and
thought more of making love, than of grammar
or mathematics; the child’s mind reached so far
beyond her years, she feared lest she might be-
come involved in some of the plots and schemes
these giddy school girls, thought daring and
romantic.  She scarcely saw her way clear to
remove her either, for there had been a sort of
understanding when Hepsie left the parsonage,
that she should return to attend the same school
the ensuing year.
	Sometimes fate opens the way when all our
planning seems of no avail, and so it proved in
this matter which to Mrs. Hathaway was a very
serious one.  “Mrs. Grovsener was ill,” the
news came in a letter from home while they
were still at the seashore; “the minister was in
despair;” much as Mrs. H. dreaded the effect
of the news upon Hepsie, she felt it was abso-
lutely her duty to tell her, all she had learned
about Mrs. Grovsener’s condition.  She did not
manifest the least sorrow herself, taking pains
to conceal her agitation; but Hepsie to her utter
astonishment recieved the message as though
she had known it beforehand; after a few
moments of thoughtfulness, she said as though
talking to herself, “that ends my life at the dear
old parsonage;” and immediately in a burst of
emotion her tears falling fast-—she ejaculated
between her sobs “I knew she couldn’t endure
it much longer, he has killed her by inches,”
then as though a new thought had arisen, she
remembered the minister’s utter dependence
upon his wife, and turning to her mother she
almost screamed in her excitement, “who’ll
help him with his sermons now?  The whole
congregation will find out how it was he could
preach such sermons: O, I knew it was because
a woman gave him her thoughts and polished
every sentence with her beautiful sentiments;
women do most of the polishing in this world
don't they?"  "It is scarcely proper for a little
child to judge one like him you do not know
all,” replied the mother, “besides Mrs.  Groves-
ner is not dead, only ill, and may soon recover,
let us hope so at least.” “But she will die I
knew I should never see her dear face again,
every one that I set my heart on dies; my dear
old grandpa, he was a man among men not at all
like the Rev. Mr. Grovsener” “I am glad you
have a standard of excellence to look up to in
mankind, but you have only spoken of two men
and in your opinion one of them is all good,
and the other all bad, that will not do, there is
no perfection on this earth, but most people
have more good than evil in their natures. How
strange it seems that you should set up a
standard at your age for ministers to live up to.
They are the ones to teach us the way of life
and salvation,” was the mother’s reply.
	“Mrs. Grovsener used to say to her husband
that he preached too much about eternal pun-
ishment, and too little about heaven; O I’ve
heard them discussing the sermons over and
over again, she wanted him to tell the people
about love, the love of God, and of the blessed
Savior; but he always wanted to have “strong
doctrine to give to poor sinners on the Sabbath
day” so he said. “I tell you mother she knew
as much about the Bible as he did, and a great
deal more about love, she often told me how
dearly her father loved her, and what a good
man, and true Christian he was; “not at all
like my husband,” she would say, and then
explain after “that he was more tender-hearted
than most men. He was a minister too, now


[Column 1]
I remember and it was arranged that she must
marry a minister though she was opposed to it, 
she told me so in confidence; and often when
we have been alone she has talked to me in 
such a way that I felt sure she had at some 
time in her life a real sweetheart;"
	Mrs. Hathaway allowed Hepsie to talk on 
about ministers, and love, and like topics on 
which her mind seemed to rest, thinking it
would keep her from grieving, and all the time 
she was learning more of the girl's real nature, 
though she knew perfectly well the story of 
Mrs. Grovsener's life, before and after marriage, 
and she did not wonder that her daughter put
this and that together, until she wove a pretty
little romance out of the life of her dear
friend. 
	Before many days another letter came, say-
ing Mrs. Grovsener had passed away; and as if
to confirm Hepsie's words it also stated that the
Rev. Erasmus Grovsener was so overcome with 
grief, that he would give up his position at N.
—and go away from his home, and all that re-
minded him of his "dearly beloved Deborah."
Hepsie mourned sincerely in a childish way, 
and bemoaned the necessity of leaving the
school and her particular friends to whom she
was so devotedly attached to go among
strangers again, for her mother who had already
thought the matter over informed her it would
be farther away than before. Hepsie was
partly prepared for the message that came, on
account of the presentiment she felt the morn-
ing she left the parsonage; and yet she had
tried to believe there was nothing in it. 
	At the seaside she had not made any new
friends, in fact they were not her style, the
little girls of her own age were not at all com-
panionable, and the older ones were occupied
with other matters than noticing children. In-
deed Mrs. H. herself did not care for the 
society of the fashionable people who as-
sembled there, she was altogether too, matter of
fact, and as soon as she felt Hepsie had some-
what recruited was only anxious to get away. 
The eldest daughter of the family had married
while Hepsie was at school and Mrs. H. in-
tended to entrust the child [---]
Mrs. Grovsener was gone, and meantime made
inquiries by letter what school advantages there
were in the town for Hepsie, and having re-
ceived word that there was a Select School for
young ladies, she felt satisfied it would be a
suitable place, and that the influence would be
favorable, as there would be less flirtation and
coquetting among the girls, although Mrs. H.
was not very well posted upon what had tran-
spired in this regard at the High school. In
New England in that day, Select Schools for
young ladies only, which included little girls
in short dresses, and which by the bye were
worn until they were fifteen years old, and
Young Ladies' Seminaries were considered the
most "proper" places for girls; colleges were 
not then open to young women, in fact it was
just about the advent of the woman's rights
period—and right here we might add that
Hepsie's mother was already tinged with the
ideas, that have since become so pronounced and
have produced such radical changes in matters
pertaining to women.
	Poor little Hepsie was very timid about go
ing to strage places, and she had never seen her
sister's husband, and indeed did not know any-
thing of the town which was a much larger one
and in another county, but her mother was 
quite imperative as to her going and she knew
perfectly well that it would be no use to at-
tempt to dissuade her when once she
made up her mind.
	Hepsie wrote letters to the girls of the
"Club" telling them that she was going to 
another school and that owing to the changes
at the Parsonage, she was not to return to N. 
at all, and bidding them a fond farewell such
as school girls 'love to linger over,' and promis-

[Column 2]
ing eternal fidelity she felt she was ready for
anything. She did not expect answers to these
letters, and in those days postal service was a 
very different affair to what it is now, they did 
not make railroad connections the mail went
by stage, and really Hepsie only knew of one
Railroad, and that line run from Boston to 
Albany. Mrs. H. did not like to take Hepsie
home at all, not even for a visit, but she saw
no other way, some needful preparation must
be made, and it was impossible for her to re-
main away from home any longer, and the
visit to the seaside had been prolonged for
Hepsie had begged for one more day until a 
week had elapsed and it was nearly time to 
commence the fall term of school. 
	Hannah (the married sister) was delighted at 
thought of Hepsie's coming, and could scarcely 
wait the time even though she was a young bride
just gone to housekeeping. Mrs. H. gave
Hannah strict instructions concerning her
little sister, telling her she had far outgrown in
ideas the viliage girls of her own age and how
important it would be to advise her in the
choice of books and companions, and impress
her with exalted ideas of what would be ex-
pected of her in the future. 
	The journey home was without any partic-
ular incident, and once there the busy mother
was involved in household duties, and Hepsie
had a grand opportunity to roam over the
hills and through the woods and fields, and
first of all she wended her way to the old
homestead, where she would sit for hours under
the sweeping boughs of the great elm trees
pondering on the past and dreaming of the
future; many were her childish fancies, and
girl-like some how a hero of her own ideal
creation was always intermingled with the
years to come. The house was occupied now
by cousins, three or four times removed, so
she had an opportunity to go in and out at
will, though neither her mother or any of the
family had crossed the threshold since the day 
of the old Major's funeral. The idea of pull-
ing down had been abandoned as it was only
valued as real estate. Hepsie unlike the others
[---] in an ideal realm, and clung with fond-
ness and tenacity to the old home and all its
attractions.  "Strange" her mother remarked
when she came to notice it, "she has so much
ideality that I am completely at a loss to know 
what to do with her, she cannot be dealt with
the same as the other children and I am puzzled
to know what course to pursue."  But Hepsie
meantime was catching butterflies and enjoy-
ing the summer hours and sunshine, and was 
happy in the very consciousness of living in
the beautiful world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN DRUGGISTS IN BUFFALO.

Editors Woman's Journal:
	The Buffalo Medical College has of late
years opened its doors to women.  Two of
these have taken the junior course in pharmacy
and have bought out a drug store, centrally
situated, and are now its sole proprietors and
managers.
	The idea of women conducting a drug store
was so novel, especially to an Euglishman,
that it was thought worthy of a notice in one
of the London journals.  An inteaview with
one of the proprietors, Miss R. Belle Mosher;
formerly of Hornellsville, N. Y., disclosed the
fact that neatness, tact and exactness, three
essentials to successful druggists, are largely
possessed by women, and that there is a grow-
ing demand for women druggists, just as there
is for women physicians.
	The sign Bouteyne & Mosher now adorns the
door of the oldest drug store in the city of
Buffalo, whose establishment dates back fifty
years.
								Ex


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The first use of a locomotive in this country
was in 1829.

	Miss Margarett Elliott Francis is editor of
The Trained Nurse, Buffalo, N. Y.

	The National Conference of Charities and
Corrections held its session in San Francisco.

	Miss Ottilie Thomas, stenographer and type-
writer, is said to be the only American girl in
charge of an exhibit at the Paris Exposition.

	Dr. Louise Fisk Bryson, a young physician
of New York, read a paper before the Social
Science Association on "The Dangerous Classes
and the Modern Doctor."

	Mrs. Annie Jenness-Miller will make an ex-
tended tour through the New England States
this fall in the interest of dress-reform—the
art of comfortable and artistic dressing.

	Mrs. Emma D. E. N. Southworth, the story-
writer, is now seventy-two years of age, and
although still bright and active, requires con-
stant attention, owing to defective eye-sight.

	Elizabeth Stuart Phelps-Ward has estab-
lished at Gloucester, Mass., a fisherman’s read-
ing-room, with newspapers and games.  She
has also founded several coffee-rooms at the point.
	
	Men have accused the women who are fear-
lessly demanding equal rights for their sex, of
every thing but one.  They have never accused
them of being weak-minded.—Mrs. Josephine
K. Henry in Southern Journal.

	Susan B. Anthony has written to Mayor
Grace of New York, suggesting that one of
the permanent buildings of the World's Fair
be set aside to women, for an exhibit of their
work.  "While the men of the country," she
says, "shall rear temples in honor of Colum-
bus, it will surely be most fitting for the
women to celebrate the virtues of Queen
Isabella."

	Miss Mary L. Seymour, editor of the Busi-
ness Women's Journal, advices women to wear
a dress with seven pockets.  Four of these are
in the vest, one for the watch, one for a pen-
cil, two for car-tickets and small change.
Under one of the panels on the right side is a
long pocket for the purse and handkerchief.
The pockets for memorandum-book and card-
case are tucked away in the drapery behind.
When Mrs. Seymour has another dress made,
she proposes to add an eighth pocket on the left
side for keys and miscellaneous belongings.

	In New Mexico a convention to form a State
Constitution met at Santa Fe on the 3d inst.
Before it had been in session a week the ques-
tion of woman suffrage came up upon numer-
ous petitions sent in by the women of the
Territory.  Several county conventions also
had passed resolutions in its favor.  On the
10th inst. a majority of the convention refused
to permit the incorporation of a woman suf-
frage clause in the elective franchise article.
The woman suffragists endeavored to delay
action, but an adverse report of the committee
was finally adopted.

	The Woman Suffrage Party's State Com-
mittee met at No. 52 University Place, Mr.
Hamilton Willcox presiding, Aug. 29, and
decided to hold its State Convention at Sara-
toga, Oct. 2 and 3.  Mrs. M. Louise Thomas,
the distinguished philanthropist and orator,
president of the Woman's Centenary Associa-
tion, and ex-president of Sorosis, was elected
president of the Committee instead of Dr.
Clemence S. Lozier, deceased Mrs. Thomas
accepted the post.  Geo.  Pellew, nephew of
John Jay, was chosen secretary, in place of
Charles K. Whipple, removed from the State.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THANK GOD.

Thank God for Tears, which as the genial rain
Refreshes earth, so rests the weary brain;
Bright, blessed tears, of gladness or of grief,
To o'er-charged nature bringing quick relief.

Thank God for Dreams, in which our loved ones come
From fairer homes, and make less burthensome
Life's weary longings, and its weight of care,
Which we must carry till we join them there,

Thank God for Love, the purest, holiest thing
Which blesses earth, or hope or bliss can bring;
Dear friendship's smile, affection's tender tone,
And all the sweetness which to Love is known.

Oh thank, and praise Him ! for the sacred Light
Of Truth, to guide our drifting souls aright;
By which all tests may safely be withstood—
Thank God for all things beautiful and good!
									LULA.


THAT LULLABY. 

"Bye low bye," I can hear her sing, 
	Dear little mother mine!
Back and forward the rockers swing, 
	Deep in my heart the words entwine,  
	"O, Bye low baby bye"

Sweet is the voice, as turtle dove, 
Crooning the song of mother-love; 
Told is a story, heard on high,
In the artless words, of 'bye low bye."

Long are the days since last I lay
	Close to her heart so true. 
Beset by storms the thorny way, 
	Many a cloud, and little blue
Has shone across my sky,
	Since hushed by that “bye low bye."

O! for the days, when in her arms,
	Sooth'd by that lullaby, 
Safe from the world and all its harms, 
Rocked to test, on mother's breast, 
	I heard that "bye low bye!"
							WOODINA.
June 2, 1889.


THE BABY ON HER ARM.
MRS. E. L. BALLARD.
Surrounded by an unbroken forest
It stood—a cabin of the humblest type.
Windows it had none,
Its only door, to admit light and sun,
Wide open; a spinning-wheel within
And a cradle.
She came and stood in the door
And looked after his departing form,
A half-spun roll in her hand.
And trailing behind her on the floor
The twisting, twirling thread of yarn.
The wheel in motion—the baby on her arm.

Long since the noon-day heat had
Sapped up the lushy essence of summer
Morn; and where wet ferns bow and weep,
And purling waters play and leap
In the braided wilderness, the echoing song
Of the thrush rang. “And the sun on the cabin floor
Short shadows cast
With cheek flushed and warm
She came and gazed down the leafy aisle,
Then passed through the open door
And out to the falling waters.
An empty bucket in her hand—the baby on her arm.

Above their fellow-trees in the forest
The spired forms of the hickory towered,
Casting, as the purple evening closed around,
Shapely shadows on the open ground
About the cabin. Shy birds chattered in the
Bunched leaves, and the odor of scented roses
Came out of the wilds.
She came and stood in the door,


And smiled gladly as he approached;
And trailing behind her on the floor
A rolling ball of yarn,
A half-knit sock in her hand—the baby on her arm.
									Selected.


PICNIC IN THE WOODS.

	Early in the morning the party of a dozen
and more left town in open vehicles and on
horseback well equipped for fishing hunting
and feasting; and all in a jolly good humor, on
pleasure bent, though there had been two or
three disappointments, from different causes
before starting, and one break down before we
reached the foot of the first hill; but as the
horses stopped when the wheel ran off, and no
one was hurt, or even thrown out—it was
looked upon as a very lucky accident even if it
did hinder us for a couple of hours.
	Up in this Northern Territory there is not
too much sunshine even in August, and from
the recent fires there is still smoke in the air.
Our road lay where the woods are almost con-
tinuous on both sides of the way though it
winds round and round the mountains, yet
there were traces at intervals of the terrible
fires that have been devastating this beautiful
reigon of country. The horses were spirited
and the ride with the woodland odors around
us was refreshing. On and on we wound, up
and down, in and out, only occasionally seeing
a miner’s log cabin until finally reaching an
open glade, where there were a few dwellings
and a pretentious quartz mill, running briskly
with a good supply of water, and farther up the
mountain stream we were told was a good sub-
stantial saw mill, in working order. This was
once, only a short time ago, the prosperous
town of Osborne; and a mile or more further
on was Eagle where in the Spring of 1884
there were 6,000 people. It is now a deserted
hamlet with only a few families; there are
several such deserted places round about here.
The Eagle river supplies water for the mills,
and other purposes and is a pretty winding
mountain stream, making a charming variety
in the scenery. Occasionally we were told that
the road was much more picturesque before the
recent fires, which have been very fierce and
terrible, though along this road there had been
more of what is termed back fires, running up
the mountain on the other side and down on
this, and fires do not rage so fiercely running
downward as when climbing upward.
	There is still what the Westerners would call
“a smart sprinkle” of pine trees and shrubbery
though the black stumps and fallen trees
burned to cinders are not altogether hidden
here and there is the mountain ash with its rich
clusters of bright red berries, and Elder bushes
covered with the ripe luscious blue-berries;
these diversified the scenery.
	There are many spruce and fir trees among
the pines, with  a few hemlocks and other
varieties, but it is almost entirely a forest of
dark tall pines, through which the wind sings
soft lullabies, and anon sighs mournfully, as a
funeral requiem for the dead, then perhaps
shrieks, moans, cries piteously, or changing
again fairly howling in majestic fierceness.
But notwithstanding the song of the pines so
delightfully sympathetic we journey on for the
Major by whose side I am sitting is very loqua-
cious, and has an agreeable, deep sonorous
voice; and he tells me many interesting things
of Mexico and other countries he has visited
and coming back to the present, of his “well-
made scheme,” now in progress of a bed rock
flume, which matter I will not here explain,as
this party is a social affair and not an industrial
enterprise.
	After driving about ten miles we come to a
beautiful mountain river the North Fork of
the Coeur d’Alene and in a clearing a camp is
in sight;—a lone fisherman on the rocks is

[Column 2]
hauling in the fish, much to the discomfiture of
some of the ladies, but totally unheeding, fishes
on and on.
	By the large white tent sits a young woman
at perfect ease, as though there were no
disturbing elements in all the world; two men
are busy making preparations for our  coming.
We unloaded some distance away as it would
have been impossible to drive nearer and the
provisions etc., were put in a skiff and some of
the party also went in the boat, I preferred to
walk even at the risk of crossing difficult places
on logs. It was a delightful day and the river
was lovely indeed and looking across it at the
tall cotton woods and very old pines all the way
up the high mountain side reminded one of
those immortal lines.
		“This is the forest primeval
		The murmuring pines and the hemlocks
		Bearded with moss, and in garments green."

	The view was most inspiring but we were a
party and one is expected on such occasions to
be social and not sentimental, to join in the
conversation and help amuse and entertain.
One or two of the ladies and gentlemen took
the fishing rods to try their luck, and one of
the young ladies marched up the river with a
gun, followed by a slender,genteel young man,
just from New York City, whom the gentlemen
designated as a “tenderfoot.”    Hammocks
were swung, magazines brought out and the
rest of us were left to follow our own inclina-
tions, and as the company was composed of
men of military fame and legal ability, the
ladies were glad to listen. There were two
Majors a Colonel and a General, three or four
lawyers and a Judge and of course others equally
brilliant if not titled.
	It was soon time for refreshments however,
and a fire was kindled in the middle of a pile
of rocks; and fish [---] and coffee made and
the cloth spread, and the guests gathered
around, partaking with a relish the tempting
viands.
	Afterwards we gathered wild flowers, ferns
and boughs of evergreen, and as the sky
darkened we began to think of turning our
faces homeward. The horses were harnessed
the things put into the boat and we wended our
way across the rough places after bidding good-
bye to the grey-haired General and Mrs.
Vickors, who remained at the camp,  having
one down there for a few days hunting and
fishing. Before we started the rain was pour-
ing, and we were really unprepared, as the
morning had been very fine, but the ladies had
the use of the men’s hunting coats and what
parasols had been taken out were put to good
use; but a sorry sight we were to gaze upon.
We were all glad of the rain nevertheless, and
hoped it would effectually extinguish the fires,
that were still burning in places on the
Mountains and deep down at the roots of many
trees; but as we came towards home we saw
two tall trees blazing fiercely though the rain
was pouring in torrents. We felt sure the
flames could not hold out long and so com-
forted ourselves and drove on. The party
were all in fine spirits, a merry crowd; it had
been a most delightful day for the writer, meet-
ing new people, seeing new places, hearing
good stories well told, and listening to the
music of nature’s voices, and quietly commun-
ing and forming pictures in her mind to be
framed hereafter and set in the halls of
memory.
							AUNT EM.
	Murray, Idaho August 31, 1889,


Mrs. Allen Hamilton, a sister of Congress-
man Holman, of Indiana, who died recently
at Fort Wayne, bequeathed $1,000 to the
cause of woman suffrage, the money to he held
in trust by Mrs. Lucy Stone and Susan B.
Anthony.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	- 		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah	Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.	No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: 	Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City 	Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

Salt Lake City, 	-	-	September 15,	1889.


NOTICE.

	The Sixtieth Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, will
commence at 10 o’clock, on Friday morning,
October 4th, 1889, in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake
City.
	The officers and members of the Church are
cordially invited to be present at the meetings.
				WILFORD WOODRUFF,
				GEORGE Q. CANNON,
				JOSEPH F. SMITH,
						First Presidency.

		RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The first Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter
day Saints will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, Salt Lake City, on Monday October 7th,
commencing at 10 a. m.
	A cordial invitation is extended to the Stake
Presidents of the Relief Society and all officers
and members thereof, and also the brethren to at-
tend the meetings.
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
								President.
				JANE S. RICHARDS,
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
								Counselors.


JUSTICE TO THE PEOPLE.

	The course taken and the haste made by Presi-
dent Harrison in removing from office Democrats
because of their politics and not on account of
any inefficiency or lack of duty, is considered by
men of large experience who are not partisans as
anything but laudable. It does not bespeak for
him the magnaminity of character that would be
expected in the Chief Executive of the nation
whose position gives him the power to show him-
self above petty distinctions and partisanship.
Executive and Judicial work is delayed and
weakened when able men are removed from
office who have become thoroughly acquainted
with their duties, and surroundings, and new men
appointed, novices perhaps, simply upon some
one’s recommendation or preference hundreds or
thousands of miles away, and who might have
a selfish or malicious object in view. That the
President is urged in this matter by prominent
and influential men of his party is true, but the
people of these United States of all parties ex-
pect better things of the President of this great
and free Republic.
	At the Republican Convention of Iowa recently
Hon. John M. Irwin Pres, of the Convention
made the remark. “The bounden duty of
Benjamin Harrison, by the grace of the Re-


publican party President of the United States is
to have none but Republicans on guard anywhere
and to have nowhere in this broad land any Dem-
ocrat in any official position high or low.”
	In the three states Ohio Pennsylvania and Iowa
this is the official representative action and
declaration. The man who stands at the head of
a great nation like this one is not the representa-
tive of a party alone but of a people, who expect
justice and equity and not a one sided adminis-
tration. If such rules are to be applied how can
the people be equal? we Americans talk a great
deal about freedom and equality, and the constitu-
tion of our country guarantees it, but there is a
a failure in the spirit and action of the thing
somewhere, and perhaps one solves the problem
in one way and one in another; but certainly
Pres. Harrison is not following out the pattern of
Our Father who sends the rain on the just and
on the unjust for they are all his children.
	According to our understanding Pres. Harrison
is the President of the people of the United
States, including all parties, and all classes and
women, as well as men, tho’ they are not supposed
to have any politics of any kind, and very few
rights or privileges, except to stay at home and
learn of their husbands if they have a home, and
what if they have not? why then to earn their
bread by the sweat of their brow the same as men
do with out the right to assert themselves; or en-
joy the equality in reference to remuneration for
their labor, that is given to men the country over.
	There will be an opportunity next winter when
the Woman Suffrage Convention is held in
Washington of ascertaining the views, opinions
and willingness of the President towards woman
suffrage or equal political rights for men and
woman, but judging from what has transpired, the
woman of the nation would have to bind them-
selves to vote the Republican ticket, if they ex-
pected his influence or support towards obtaining
unconditional suffrage.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	On the 7th of this month a number of the
sisters paid their respects to Sister Presindia L.
Kimball it being her birthday anniversary. The
guests numbered fifty or more and they came
laden with good things, and with presents in
commemoration of a day which they keep annually
in an appropriate way. Sister Presindia has now
entered upod her 80th year, having been born in
1810. She is a woman of remarkable power, and
wonderful experiences, a fine presence; and
possessing many of the gifts of the Gospel in a
rare degree. Her name is known throughout all
Israel for her good works and ministrations, par-
ticularly to the sick and distressed in body or
mind. Although not present at the birthday
party we extend the most sincere congralutations
to Sister Kimball and trust her usefulness may
continue yet many years to come.

	The September number of “The Answer” pub-
lished in the interests of the “School of Journal-
ism,” at Detroit, Michigan has been received and
is an interesting paper. Something out of the
usual order and a woman’s enterprise. Miss Clara
Selleck Editor. She is spoken of as a young wo-
man of ability, and certainly the one number we
have seen speaks well for the management of the
paper. Among the patrons of this school of
journalism as published in its columns we noticed
the names of some of the prominent women in
literature and newspaper role. Miss Rose Eliza-
beth Cleveland, sister of Ex-President Cleveland,
Holland Patent, New York, Mrs. Dr. Bennett,
Chicago, Ill., Mrs. Cora Wheeler, Boston, Mass.,
Mrs. Col. Hallam, Mrs. Mohl, Mrs. C. S. Lock-
wood, Miss McPherson, Judge Harlan, Miss
Snow and others, Washington D. C. If the


School of Journalism is all that it is claimed to be
by the paper which represents it, certainly much
improvement may be positively expected in those
who have opportunities of availing themselves of
its advantages.

	Mrs. A. M. Longshore Potts M. D. a graduate
of the Philadelphia Woman’s College, will lecture
in the Salt Lake Theatre next week as follows,
Monday, Tuesday and Thursday evenings, Sept.
23, 24, and 26, commencing at 8 o’clock. Also
afternoon lectures to ladies only Tuesday,Wednes-
day, Thursday, Friday and Saturday Sept. 24, 25,
26, 27, 28, commencing at 3 o’clock. Saturday
Sept. 28, at 8 p. m. lecture to both sexes on Love,
Courtship and Marriage. We acknowledge
courtesy of invitation. If one can judge by the
press notices of Mrs. Potts it will certainly be
pleasant and instructive as well as entertaining to
hear her speak. Women are so severely criticised
when they appear on the lecture platform that we
really think the Doctor must possess a wonderful
power of fascination or exceptional ability to have
recieved such flattering encomiums of praise and
appreciation from newspaper men. “The Phila-
delphia Press said of her, Mrs. Dr. Potts is
very winning and attractive and always capable of
holding the attention of a refined and intelligent
audience. Many of the follies of mankind were
shown up in a most amusing, crushing, sarcastic
and witty manner by the lecturer, and her audience
was forced to break out frequently in the heartiest
laughter.” New York Herald “She is not
only an able, scientific woman, but a brilliant and
eloquent speaker.” There are other notices we
have seen from journals in America and other
countries, but these are sufficient to show that she
is held in high esteem as a public lecturer, and it
will without doubt be a great intellectual treat to
listen to her persuasive eloquence.


HALF A CENTURY.

	A very large party of ladies and gentlemen as-
sembled at the residence of Mrs. Sarah Jane
Cannon at the Cannon Farm on Wednesday
evening September 11, to celebrate her birthday
anniversary. It was an unexpected surprise and
an appropriate and telling acknowledgement of
their love and esteem for the honored lady. The
husband was necessarily absent, being excused by
the Edmund’s Law from any participation in the
festivities of the party. President Woodruff and
other distinguished guests however honored the
occasion by their presence, and the evening was
passed in chatting, feasting and so on. A num-
ber of congratulatory addresses were made by
the guests and some written articles read, among
them a letter from the absent husband expressing
his appreciation and kindly feeling and the cir-
cumstances that compelled his absenting himself
from the bosom of his family even at a time of
rejoicing. It is needless to add that there were
many gifts presented and everything passed off
pleasantly. The affair was we are informed under
the direct management of Dr. E. S. Barney who
should also be congratulated on its success.


EIGHTEENTH WARD SEMINARY.

     We acknowledge receipt of Circular of the
Latter-day Saints Seminary of the Eighteenth
Ward for the first Academic Year 1889--1890.
	It is very gratifying to know that this people
have practically awakened to the importance of
having schools wherein definite religious in-
struction is given, and special classes for that
purpose are organized in each department. The
idea of the Bible being excluded from the public
schools, may be American, as many arrogantly
proclaim, but it is not Godlike and will have a
tendency to produce a race of infidels.


We hail with joy the advent of Latter-day
Saint schools and colleges and feel that it is an
inspired movement which will result in great
good to the youth of Zion and in its interests at
home and abroad. The schools already es-
tablished where religious instruction has been
given have done and are still doing an excellent
work, and many other like institutions in different
parts of the Territory will ere long be in
operation.
	The school building in the 18th Ward which
was dedicated on the 30th of August last was
built by subscription for the very purpose to which
it will now be devoted. “The first term of this
seminary of learning began September 2nd and
will close November 8th.  The second term will
begin November 11, and end January 24.  Third
term will begin January 27, and end April 7th.
Fourth term will begin April 7th and close June
13th.  There will be a vacation from December
24 to January 2.”
	“There will be three departments namely: the
Primary Department, consisting of pupils of the
chart and first reader grades: the Preparatory
Department, consisting of pupils of the second
and third reader grades; and the Intemediate
Department consisting of pupils of the fourth and
fifth reader grades.  As stated special classes in
Theologv will be organized in each department.”
			DISCIPLINARY.
	“This Seminary is under the control of a Board
of Education, elected by rhe Board of Directors
of the 18th Ward Ecclesiastical Corporation.
They select the teachers and provide for the
necessities and general welfare of the school.
	The immediate government and disciplining of
the school rests with the teachers, who will main-
tain order, rather by including principles of
morality and self-respect, than by the infliction of
punishments.
	If a pupil indulges in persistent or wilful diso-
bedience to teachers, or is guilty of immoral or
disgraceful conduct, he will be suspended or ex-
pelled from the school in such a manner as is
decided by the judgment of the teachers, with the
approval of the Board.
	Absence or tardiness should be excused by a
note from the parent to the teacher stating
the cause.
	In case of withdrawal the Principal should be
notified at once, as the pupil’s name will remain
on the register until such report is made.
	A record of each pupil will be kept in such a
manner as to afford a full exhibit of his habits in
regard to attendance, punctuality, deportment and
and preparation of lessons, and at the end of
each term a report of the same will be sent to
the parent or guardian of the pupil.”
				REMARKS.
	The text-books used for the ordinary branches
will be the same as those adopted for the use of
the district schools.
	Parents should consult the teacher before
purchasing books or other school supplies for
their children.
	Parents or guardians will be held strictly re-
sponsible for any damage done to school property
by their children.
	For further information, address
				HORACE CUMMINGS, Principal.
					437 E. Second South St.
		or ROBERT PATRICK, Chairman of Board.
				163 B Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SELF GOVERNMENT.

	This is a subject we all would do well to con-
sider, and inquire of ourselves how far we exercise
the privilege.—
	Government is necessary for the well being of
society, whether exercised by a monarchical,
Republican, or Patriarchal form, but how much


easier it would be for any and all of these differ-
ent governments, if the individuals governed un-
derstood and practiced self government.  How
much easier it would be for the heads of families
if each member of the family practiced self-con-
trol and self-denial, and could with propriety say,
under every circumstance that they could govern
their feelings, thoughts and actions.  This is a
degree of perfection to which we are not likely to
attain in a few days or weeks, though we might
with profit begin at once and see what we can do
with number one.  It is a privilege no one can
take away from us.  This to me is an encouraging
thought, and that no one great or small, rich or
poor can be robbed of this inestinable blessing.
	Then let us try to exercise this privilege and
ask our Heavenly Father to help us every day
and hour to watch ourselves that we may in time
be able to govern and control every thought, and
direct every action and word.  If we depend upon
ourselves alone we will not succeed to any great
extent and if we are not earnest and determined,
we need not expect help from above. The humble
and sincere alone may look for strength and
guidance from our Heavenly Father.  May we all
realize this and live in accordance with his laws,
that we may justly claim a portion of his spirit to
be with us continually to enlighten our minds and
strengthen our resovles to do, and accomplish
every good desire of our hearts.
						MARY E. L. NEFF.
Manuscript Paper Y. L. M. I. A.
	Nephi, Utah.


GOOD ADVICE.

	As I sit and admire these our mountain homes
dearer to us than anything else on earth, I seem
to hear all nature proclaiming peace unto us all,
the low rustling breezes that come now and then
to fan us as we feel the effects of the glittering
rays of the sun, as we toil by the sweat of our
brows to earn bread; then the cool sparkling
streams from which we quench our thirst, whil’st
the birds twitter and sing above us in the leafy
branches.  All seem to whisper in harmony the
voice of peace and quietude, But hark! from afar
comes a sound as of low rolling thunders ’tis the
voice of Babylon.  She is coming, coming into
our very midst.  We all know how our parents
and grandsires came out of her that they might not
be partakers of her sins and iniquities, they left the
world and all its vanities and came to this once
wild desert, where naught but the wild beasts and
savage roamed.  Think with what zeal, strong
hearts, and willing hands, our patriotic fathers
labored to obtain that which was dearer to them
than life, even freedom.
	Behold! also the desert blooming as the rose
under their hard labors, the comfortable homes we
now enjoy, the many stately buildings, houses of
worship, school houses, and places of learning
where we can be taught to become useful men and
women, and honest citizens of this great country
which was once proclaimed to be “The land of the
free and the home of the brave.” But now we
find that the people of this great nation are fast
drawing themselves from that line, they have not
only taken the rights of citizenship from many of
our brethren but they have also disfranchised all
the women of this Territory without just cause so
that they do not enjoy that “perfect freedom and
perfect equality” with man that they should enjoy.
But still we can raise our voices and defend these
rights which a free people should enjoy, and we
can encourage others to strive to maintain that for
which they have struggled so hard.
	Shall we now because we enjoy the fruits of the
labors of the pioneers, stand idly by drifting hither
and thither we care not where, and see our rights
wrested from us by those who have come into our
midst with their smooth tongues and fine speeches


to allure us into their paths, to become as they
are many of them steeped in vice and sin, what
have they done for us, they have brought Babylon
with all her gorgeous displays into our midst and
laid her at our very doors to lead us from the
paths of virtue and honesty in which we have
been taught to tread by those to whom we are al-
ready indebted so much, shall we as I said before
stand idly by and see these things take their
course. I feel that we are all united in saying no;
although we as young sisters cannot as yet do 
much, many of us have true patriotic blood flow-
ing in our veins. Therefore let us arouse our-
selves and encourage the young men to go for,
ward in maintaining their rights and our rights
while we are not allowed to cast a ballot in vot-
ing for honest men, because we cannot afford to
have plotters and schemers to fill public positions
to draw us into their snares of immorality and
bondage as it were, although they appear very
frank and polite in their way. But still we know
we are on the safest side when we unite with those
who are of us, whom we know to be honest, truth-
loving men, men who will establish such rules,
and principles, as will tend to elevate us, and
place us on a higher platform; therefore brethren
we your sisters feel to sustain and encourage you
from our hearts and feel to say to you all go cast
your honest votes for the “People’s Party.”
				MISS MARY ANDERSEN.
	Huntsville, Utah.


“THE AUTOCRAT AT EIGHTY.”

	Oliver Wendell Holmes celebrated his
eightieth birthday at Beverly Farm, August
29th. He received many letters and telegrams
of congratulation among them, a short personal
note from his friend Whittier, in which the
latter expressed his regard and deep regret that
he could not that day grasp his friend by the
hand. Many ladies and gentlemen called and
he received a great many beautiful floral gifts.
The following sketch of Dr. Holmes’ Career is
from the N. Y. Mail and Express.
		DR. HOLMES’ CAREER.
	Dr. Holmes was born in Cambridge, Mass,
and breathed a literary atmosphere from the
day of his birth. When old enough to go away
to school he was sent to the Phillips Andover
Academy. Here he began to make verses by
translating the first book of Virgil’s “AEnoid”
in heroic couplets. In 1825 he entered
Harvard. There he was a frequent contributor
to the college periodicals, and when the ap-
pointments for commencement were given out
Holmes was made the poet. That his standing
in scholarship was excellent is manifest from
the fact that he was chosen a member of the
Phi Beta Kappa Society, which selects its
members from those who stand among the
highest.
	The young graduate found himself famous
within a year after his graduation. Many a
literary man has attracted his first literary
notice in a literary way by a few verses hitting
off some topic at the time uppermost in the
popular mind. In 1830 it was proposed to
break up the old frigate Constitution. One day
there appeared in the Boston Advertiser a pro-
test against such a desecration beginning:
		Ay, tear her tattered ensign down,
		Long has it waved on high.
	The author was O. W. Holmes. The piece
took at once, was copied widely in the news-
papers, circulated in handbills, and saved the
ship.
	Holmes studied law for a year at the Cam-
bridge Law School, but if he did not learn more
of literature than law he at least produced more
in the literary field, for he wrote a number of
humorous pieces, which added to his reputation
as a writer. It was destined that he should be


a physician, however, and, having changed his
mind as to the law, he studied medicine under
Dr. James Jackson, and then spent three years
studying abroad.
	But, while medicine furnished him with work,
literature presented a field for amusement.
The year he received his medical decree (1836)
he published a book containing his poems to
that date.  This volume contained one of the
best-known as well as the most delicate mix-
tures of the comic and the pathetic in all his
pieces, “The Last Leaf.’,
	Dr. Holmes served for a while as professor
of anatomy and physiology at Dartmouth, and
in 1849 filled the same chair in the medical
school at Harvard. While he is not known to
the public as a writer on medical topics, he
gained three of the Boylston prizes for medical
dissertations. They were published together in
1838. Besides these he has published half a
dozen books on medical science.
	When, in 1857, James Russel Lowell began
his work as editor of a new magazine called the
Atlantic Monthly Dr. Holmes was called upon
to put a shoulder to the wheel and start the
new enterprise on the road to popular favor.
He began with a series of papers called “The
Autocrat of the Breakfast Table.” Twenty-
five years before he had begun a series of
articles with that title for the New England
Magazine. The papers not only successfully
launched the magazine, but when published in
book form became the most popular piece of
literary work bearing the author’s name, not
only then but ever afterward. Indeed they
were so fascinating that the public eagerly
absorbed everybody “at the breakfast table”
that Dr. Holmes would write about. “The Pro-
fessor at the Breakfast Table” and “The Poet
at the Breakfast Table” followed “The Auto-
crat,” and are still regarded among the
Doctor’s best works.
	In verse Dr. Holmes has touched very little
that is not especially noted for the sparkling
rather than the poetic. He has written some
pieces, however, in which there is the true
poetic ring. Perhaps the best specimen of this
kind of verse in his works is “The Chambered
Nautilus.” The most marvelous feature, how-
ever, about him is the work which he has been
able to do upon occasion. Let there be a
meeting of his classmates to celebrate their
past in college, a dinner of doctor’s, a supper
of authors, Dr. Holmes would be called upon
to cook up something choice in verse to grace
the literary menu. And when the feast was
set the Doctor’s dish would not only be de-
voured by the classmates or doctors or authors,
but would be seized upou by the whole public.
Indeed many of his choicest pieces were pro-
duced in this way.
	Dr. Holmes, during his long life in literature
wrote only two novels—“Elsie Venuer,” a
study of heredity, and “The Guardian Angel.”
	Beyond his literary work Oliver Wendell
Holmes is known among his friends as a genial
companion and especially as a wit. In his
poetical works, best of all American poets, he
touches the modern taste. Such poets as Will
Carleton, Lowell in his “Biglow Papers,” Bret
Harte, and John Hay are of this school, but
Holmes overtops them all. While the plane
ou which his poems are written is far higher
than theirs. In some there is a depth of mean-
ing unnoticed by the casual reader, but what
remains is so good that it stands of itself. The
“Wonderful One Horse Shay,” for instance,
was written to show a collapse of logical rea-
soning. But few of those who have read it
know this; yet the “One Horse Shay” still lives,
perhaps the most popular of all the Doctor’s
efforts, fortunately for his admirers the
author still lives, and is honored not as a poet,
author, wit, humorist, alone, but as an original
in all these, and as the most genial and lovable
of men.


﻿ WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		MRS. HUMPHREY WARD.

	Everybody knows how Mrs. Humphrey
Ward writes. Many know how she looks, but
few have heard her talk in debate. That she
should do so in Dublin, under circumstances
which enable many friends (Americans, a few
among them) to hear her, will not surprise you
so much when I add that her father is one of
the best known figures in the learned society
of the Irish capital, and is an undisputed
authority upon a large number of important
subjects. The esprit of the various literary
institutions here finds vent in a club known as
the Cosmopolitan. It meets in the apartments
of C. H. Oldham, one of the leading Protest-
ant home rulers. Dublin is one ot the most
delightful of insular cities. Its social life has
all the repose of learned leisure. Nobody
among its scholars is rich. Nearly every man
of note in the higher institutions of learning
is interesting, clever and more or less distinc-
tion in some special pursuit. The wit of the
Irish race, which is said to be declining among
the middle class Irish as  schooling makes
them too literal, flourishes, not without a
flavor of the conservative, perhaps in the
cosmopolitan.
	A walk within an area of a few acres in
Dublin will enable the visitor to see, as they
perform their duties in connection with the
schools, Edward Dowden, the Shakespearean
scholar; Professor Galbraith, Dr. Mahaffy, the
author of various works on social life in
Greece and the “Art of conversation,” who is
now in America; Anthony Traill, the natural
philosopher; Thomas K. Abbott, the Hebrew
scholar; Dr. Robert Ball, the astronomer
royal, and Samuel Haughton, of who Darwin
relates in one of his letters in the “Life” that
he told the Geological Society in Dublin in
1859 that the speculation of Darwin and
Wallace would not be worth notice if it had
not the weight of Lyell’s name supporting its
promulgation. Professor Haughton is. Bourbon
in science as in many other things.
	Lord Dufferin is chancellor of the
Royal university, of which Thomas Arnold is
lecturer on English literature. In the same
institution are Dr. Sigerson, the author of
“Irish Land Tenures” and a volume of ad-
mirable poems. He is also a practicing
physician of eminence, and an ardent nationa
list. One may find here any number of
stories about Burke of “Burke’s Peerage,”
which was written in a little room in this
ancient town; and many lovers of Archbishop
Trench delight in recalling the pleasant hours
spent with that charming man in the years
when he was devoting himself a little to preach-
ing and a great deal to philological recreation.
	Mrs Humphrey Ward was a special guest of
the Cosmopolitan club the other night. She
was accompanied by her father, who is the
second sen of Arnold of Rugby. “Tom
Brown’s” Arnold. Mrs Ward does not very
closely resemble the portraits of her which
have become most familiar. She is not dark,
austere, and acute of face, as might be in-
ferred from the sharp outlines of the black
and white sketches. On the contrary, she is
of that medium type between blonde and bru-
nette which is popularly denominated “fair.”
Her head is not strikingly large; her features
are long and not perfectly regular, expressive
of power and continuity rather than of effemi-
nent dilettantism. Her forehead is pretty well
concealed by the old style of combing the hair
down smoothly on either side. Her hair has a
positive tendency to wrinkle and wave—to
crinkle, rather, like waves under a very gentle
wind.
	Her eyes are full, luminous, and one
would be venturesome to say of what color,
perhaps gray, perhaps chestnut, perhaps brown,
or blue. They are of various hues according
[column 2]
to the external light and the internal occupa-
tion. They look gravely brown when she
thinks long at a time upon the same subject;
they become childishly blue and merry when
the smiles parts the rather full lips (especially
is the upper lips full) and she gives forth a
pleasant, although obviously a restrained laugh.
Her hands, as they escaped now and then from
silken draperies, proved to be large, shapely
and artistic.
	She wore a white gown cut in a way that
may be called a modification of the reigning style.
It was not rigorous directoire, but presented
the favorite long lines of that favorite mode.
Her figure being easily suited, being tall,
pliable, and well proportioned, she would look
well in anything; but her graceful presence
was somewhat hidden by her evening mantle,
which she did not discard, its copious folds
falling around her, sybil-like, as she sat quite
at ease, simple and free from self-consciousness,
yet knowing that she was the cynosure of a
brilliant company. One would not call her
beautiful or even a handsome woman; but she
impresses every one with the dignity, the
strength and the reserve of her intellectual
force, and is as amiable and kindly in manner
as if she were the unknown author of "Miss
Bretherton,” instead of, perhaps, the most
widely known novelist living, and the un-
doubted successor of her illustrious country
woman, George Eliot. I am not sure that the
latter phrase is justified, for Thomas Arnold
went to New Zealand in his youth as an in-
spector of schools, and from that country was
transferred by the British colonial office, of
which he was a subordinate, to Tasmania.
There he married Julia Sorrel, granddaughter
of a former governor, and there Mary Augusta,
their eldest daughter, was born. The relation-
ship between father and daughter, strange to
say, is the foundation of “Robert Elsmere”
the intellectual and moral relationship, for, all
gossip to the contrary, it is true that in the
evolution and devolution of her father’s relig-
ious beliefs the daughter found the genesis of
her hero-preacher. Old Dr. Arnold, it will be
remembered, lived a good part of his august
and beautiful life amid the surroundings and
within the precincts that transferred so large a
number of Oxford scholars to the communion
of Rome. He firmly believed in the divinity
of Christ, although somewhat disposed to
Unitarianism in other matters. He was at one 
time expected to follow Newman, but he
lingered with Keble. One of his sons,
Matthew, became in time the disciple more of
Francis than of John Henry Newman; but
Thomas Arnold, the younger, entered, while in
Tasmania, the Church of Rome. On return-
ing to England he prayed, meditated, and
studied at the oratory in Birmingham, within
the shadow of Joseph Chamberlain’s modest
old home, which he has discarded for a pre-
tentious new one; but after the lapse of a few
years, a portion of the period being spent as
professor in the now defunct Catholic uni-
versity in Dublin, Mr. Arnold discarded the
dogmas of Roman Catholicism and returned
to Oxford, very much in the condition of
another character in the novel, who believed
nothing. It was while he was engaged on his
various text books there that his daughter met
Thomas Humphrey Ward, whose father was
vicar of St. Barnabas’s, King’s square, London,
and who in his younger days was as conserva-
tive in his religious views as he is now indefi-
nite in them. Mrs. Ward assisted him in the
prearation of the critical estimates of many
of the “English Poets,” their colleagues being
Matthew Arnold, Thomas Arnold, Edmund
Gosse, Andrew Lang, George Saintsbury,
Downden, Austin Dobson, Swinburne, the
Dean of Westminister (Stanley), and the late
Lord Houghton. The conversation upon
music and art which so abounds in “Robert


[column 1]
Elsmere” discloses the companionship of Mrs.
Ward with her husband, who is one of the
most accomplished writers on these subjects in
England.
	It was, therefore, as inevitable that Mrs.
Ward should deal with the religious problem
in her first successful book,as that George Eliot,
also cradled in professional religiousness,should
deal with the same perplexing phenomena in
life and conduct. She spoke at the Cosmo-
politan upon the same theme. The subject
nominally under discussion was whether the
world would not be quite as moral without
Christianity. It was chosen in deference to the
distinguished guest. The company would have
been delighted to hear her speak on any sub-
ject; but on one she was eminently fitted to dis-
cuss she showed an obstinate reticence
due in part to the sophistries of some of the
loquacious scholastics present, who are as hair-
splitting in Dublin as their ancestors were in
Paris or Bologna centuries ago; and in part,
perhaps, to a high-bred unwillingness to seem
to make shop of her own work: Her father
spoke readily and effectively, but not with a
view to registering himself on either side of the
proposition. The majority of the speakers were
quite willing to believe that the morality
of Platonism was as pure as that of Christ,
Hellenic culture being a favorite in both old
and the more modern Royal University. The
discussion drifted away from the direct inter-
rogatory and became a more assertive talk, in
which somebody at last aroused Mrs. Ward by
saying that there was no morality left in the
world except among the aristocracy. The
assertion was preposterous, of course, but it
was ingeniously and persuasively made, the al-
leged excess of crime among the lower classes
and the strong Philistinism of the middle
classes being cited in its support. Mrs. Ward
shook her head very emphatically and at last
entered the lists.
	Her voice is clear, sympathetic, and finely
cadenced, the pitch being agreeably variable
and the intonation indicating the careful habit
of thinking clearly before speaking, and of
speaking in the best language and with a deli-
cate sense of voice quality. Her manner is
wholly free from forensic suggestion or didactic
assumptiveness. She might have talked about
the weather in the same musical, colloquial
way. Nor did she appear to be conscious of
saying aught of the least importance, but every
word was listened to with eager attention. She
said in effect that morality was not the exclu-
sive possession of any portion of the world, or
of any class, and pressed, with eloquent but
well restrained vehemence, the point that
throughout the mass of the English people
especially, there is a sturdy and real morality
which does not label  itself aggressively as
Christian or other, but is in aim and in in-
spiration Christian. Without offering any dis-
paraging words in relation to the aristocracy
arid their virtues, it was manifest that she did
not esteem them monopolists of morality in
their day, Christian or other. It was impos-
sible to deduce from her words, which were
happily chosen without strain or affectation,
whether she had any belief on the main ques-
tion under consideration.
	In private conversation Mrs. Ward can be
either gay and humorous—and richly so—or
impressive and refreshing. Her power of con-
versation extends over many topics. She has
essentially an aesthetic rather than a philosophic
or scientific mode of looking at everything, and
I fancy would be liable to apply standards of
taste where more syllogistic logicians would in-
sist upon colder methods of investigation.
When free from the bonds that effect on semi-
pnblic occasions every cultivated woman, Mrs.
Ward is pungent, brilliant and witty; but on
this occasion she seemed to be studying unusual
types of human beings rather than to be con-
[column 2]
cerned in expressing herself. Indeed here re-
serve was noticeable.
	Her father states that she and her family
were simply astonished at the success of her
novel. Wise and devoted counselors, after
reading the manuscript, gravely discouraged
her from attempting to print it. When,
despite their timidity, she found a publisher,
her household and intimate friends, who were
in the secret, expected that it might possibly
attract the attention of a few reviewers. That
it should become, as it still indeed is, the sensa-
tion of years, was and is to them a mystery.
It is confidently asserted that Mrs. Ward will
visit New York next winter.—The Oregonian.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

			MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Malad
Stake of Zion was held in Malad City on
August 18th commencing at 10, A. M. Pres.
Lucinda Hoskins Presiding. Pres. of Stake
Oliver C. Hoskins and Counselors and several
Members of the High Council were also on the
stand. Meeting opened by singing. "The
morning breaks." Prayer was offered by
Bishop George Stewart. Singing by the
Choir, minutes of last Conference and Stake
Report were read and approved. The Pres. of
the various branches gave verbal reports show-
ing a marked improvement among the sisters,
and a determination to go ahead and live their
religion and keep the commandments of God,
all the sisters had determined to look after the
wants of the poor and visit the sick and see
that they did not lack for the necessaries of
life. Several of the brethren and sisters bore
their testimony to the work of the Lord.
Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing,
Benediction by Counselor Wm. H. Gibbs.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting convened at
2 p. m. Pres. L. Hoskins presiding, after the
usual opening exercises Pres Oliver C. Hos-
kins addressed the Conference, felt happy to see
so many of the sisters assembled in this Con-
ference and to hear the reports from the differ-
ent Wards, exhorted the sisters to stand firm in
their religion and teach their sons and
daughters the principles of the Gospel and
teach them to be prayerful and to honor the
Preisthood and to live in the fear and admoni-
tion of the Lord, said he appreciated the work
of the Sisters knew that the Relief Societys was
doing a good work, gave many other timely in-
structions which were listened to with great
interest by all present. Counselor Wm. H.
Gibbs said he was pleased with the remarks of
the brethren and sisters during this Conference
spoke on the subject of education also the
proper rearing of our children, gave much
good advice and instruction to the sisters.
	Pres. Lucinda Hoskins felt to rejoice in the
instruction we had received during this Con-
ference spoke on several different subjects gave
much good instruction exhorted the sisters to
attend their meetings and be diligent in all
things pertaining to the Church and Kingdom
of God.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Guide us O Though Great Jehovah!"
Benediction was pronounced by Brother Jesse
Dredge.
			ELIZA A. HALL. Stake Sect.

			BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Ladies' Semi annual Confer-
ence eld at St Charles July 13th and 14th
1889. Saturday 10 a. m. Pres Julia P.
Lindsey presiding, Choir sang "Praise Ye the
Lord." Prayer by Wm M. Allred. Choir
sang "I saw a mighty angel fly." Roll of
Stake officers was called, minutes read and ap-
proved, verbal reports from the several
branches were given in the usual order.

[column 2]
	Pres. Lindsey then addressed the congre-
gation on the subject of charity and of per-
forming our different obligations in a manner
that would be satisfactory to ourselves and ac-
ceptable to God. Would like to see each
branch of the Relief Society in Bear Lake
Stake more energetic in sending some one to
report the respective organizations. Refered
briefly to some of the calamities that were now
being visited upon the nations of the earth,
and the importance of living lives of true
Latter-day Saints.
	Coun. E. Collings was the next speaker. She
bore her testimony to the truth of the Gospel,
and made some very encouraging remarks to
those who were striving to live their religion.
Pres. Annie Laker spoke for a short time on
the training of children and the obligations
parents were under to God when he entrusted
children to their care.
	Singing "One by one the sands are running"
&c.
		Benediction by Bishop Matthews.
	Sunday, 2 P. M. July 14th 1889, Pres J. P.
Lindsey presiding, among those who were
seated on the stand were Prest. Wm. Budge
and Bishops J. A. Hunt and R. Calder, Choir
sang "A message from on high." Opening
prayer by Bishop Calder. Choir sang "I know
that My Redeemer lives" &c. Sacrament was
then administered.
	The Statistical and Financial report was
then read by the Stake Secretary. Ready.
Lindsey spoke for a short time, touching upon
many subjects that were of interest to the
Latterday Saints. Dwelt for a short time on 
the subject of storing grain and looking after
the poor.
	Coun. E. Collings refered briefly to some few
items of interest to the Relief Society, and
closed her remarks by asking the blessings of
God upon all who were striving to keep his
commandments.
	John Bagley said it is only by the spirit of
God that we can be fed on such occasions as
these. It is necessary for a mother to under-
stand the Gospel in order that she may teach
it to her children. Refered to the two thous-
and young men spoken of in the Book of
Mormon who were taught certain principles by
their mothers, and if mothers fail to teach
their children correct principles they will be
held accountable.
	Amasa Rich said he had come to meeting to
be fed on spiritual food, spoke of the different
principles taught by those claiming to be
Christians in the world. But we are as
Latterday Saints known, we have the principles
of eternal truth and we should teach them to
our children. Those who go into the world to
teach the gospel should thoroughly understand
its principles. This should be a labor for
mothers, while their children are young to
teach them the principles of truth.
	E. M. Allred felt to rely upon the Spirit
of God to assist him when called to address a
congregation. Had been interested while
listening to remarks of those who had pre-
ceded him. Dwelt for a short time on various
subjects that were of interest to the people.
	Conference adjourned for six months. Sing-
ing by the choir.
		Benediction by Prest. Wm. Budge.
				L. M. RICH, Secretary.


THEIR AGES.

	Sarah Orne Jewett will be forty next Sep-
tember, Humphrey Ward is thirty-eight, Lucy
Larcum is sixty-three,Harriet Prescott Spofford
is fifty-four, Edith M. Thomas is fifty-five,
Marion Harland (Mrs. Terhune) is fifty-nine,
Amelie Rives-Chanler will be twenty six next
August, Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett is
thirty-nine, and she published her first story


when only eighteen, Celia Thaxter is fifty-three,
Mrs. Croly (Jenny June) is fifty-seven, Rose
Terry Cook is sixty-two, Elizabeth Stuart
Phelps-Ward was forty-five in August, Miss
Louise Imogen Guiney is twenty-seven, Con-
stance Fenimore Woolson is forty-one, nobody
ever found out the exact age of Miss Woolsey
(Susan Coolidge), but it is  believed that she
was born in 1845, which would make her age
forty-four, Mrs. Margaretta Wade Deland,
author of “John Ward, Preacher,” is thirty-
one, Mrs. Mary Mapes Dodge is fifty-one, and
Mary Abigail Dodge (Gail Hamilton) is at
least eight years older, though the records are
not quite sure upon this delicate point. To take
some of the most popular of the male authors
who are writing now, F. Marion Crawford is
thirty-five, and he wrote “Mr. Isaacs” when
only twenty seven, Robert Louis Stevenson is
thirty-nine, W. D. Howells is fifty-two, E. W.
Howe, whose ‘ The Story of a Country Town”
made so great a hit, is thirty-five, Bret Harte
is forty-nine, Julian Hawthorne is forty-three,
Richard Malcom Johnson is sixty-seven, and
Rossiter Johnson is forty-nine, Arlo Bates is
thirty-nine, Walter Besant is fifty-one, Thomas
Bailey Aldrich will be fifty-three next Novem-
ber, William Black is forty-eight, William H.
Bishop is forty-two, General Lew Wallace is
sixty-two, and he wrote "Ben Hur” when fifty-
one, John Habberton, the author of “Helen’s
Babies,” is forty-seven, Joel Chandler Harris is
forty one, George W. Cable is forty-four,
Edward Eggleston is fifty-one, and looks fifteen
years older, H. H. Boysen is forty, H. C. Bun-
ner is about thirty-eight, James Anthony
Froude has begun now to write novels at the
age of seventy-one, Frank R. Stockton is fifty-
five, William Hamilton Gibson is forty-eight,
Thomas Nelson Page is thirty-six, James
Whitcomb Riley was born in 1852, James
Payn is fifty-nine, Blander Matthews is thirty-
seven, J. T. Trowbridge is sixty-one, and Jules
Verne is the same age, while Edgar Fawcett
was forty-two on May 26th last.
	Ex.					WM. J. BOK.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT,


KOSSUTH GROWING OLD.

	“Eight hundred Hungarians made a pilgrim-
age to Turin to do homage to Kossuth. They
had a grand banquet at which Kossuth, now
aged eighty-seven, made a speech an hour and
a quarter long, marked with the same great
rhetorical powers that distinguished him of
old. He still mourns the dual government of
the Austrian Empire and the rule of the
Hapsburgs, and declared that he could not
return to his native country so long as it
formed part of the government of Austria.
He is writing his memoirs, though he is so apt
to drop into reveries on past times that the
work goes on very slowly.”


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The gem cannot be polished without friction,
nor the man perfected without trials.

	A vein of humor should be made visible
without the help of a reduction mill—J. A.
Macon.

	I never  have seen an idea too big for a
sentence, but I have read thousands of sen-
tences too big for an idea.—Uncle Esek.

	Mercy puts an argument in the mouth of
prayer, a glass to the eye of faith, and a harp
in the hand of thankfulness.

	Greatness is rarely born of the multitude.
Individual power is the product of a wide
horizon. Inspiration springs from solitude,and
the infinite comes nearer as the finite recedes
from the mental vision; only solitude must not
be filled with self.—A. W. Tourgee.


All ceremonies are in themselves very silly
things, but yet a man of the world should know
them. They are the outworks of manners and
decency, which would be too often broken in
upon, if it were not for that defence, which
keeps the enemy at a proper distance. It is for
that reason that I always treat fools and cox-
combswith great ceremony, true good breeding
not being a sufficient barrier against them.—
Chesterfield.


IN MEMORIAM

	Again we are called upon to chronicle the death of a
beloved sister and friend.	
	Sister Jane Hone Lee died at American Fork Aug 23rd
1889, of Pleurisy of the heart, aged 55 years and 8 months.
Sister Lee, with her family has lived at American Fork for
the last 27 years, and has been a teacher in the Relief
Society since its organization. She was a true wife and
mother, and a good friend, and, notwithstanding she had
been in delicate health for several years, she was very
diligent in the discharge of her duty, never missing her
meetings if she was able to be there; and always bore a
strong and faithful testimony to the truth of the gospel
and also to the gift of healing. She was cheerful under
all circumstances and though a great sufferer at times, she
never murmured at the providences of God, but had al-
ways a word of encouragement for others, and a reliance
on the Almighty that carried her through her afflictions
Her husband and family feel deeply their loss, as they
were fondly attached to her. The funeral was held at the
Meeting House and was largely attended. Several of
the Brethren spoke of the good character and devotion of
the departed, and also gave advice and consolation to the
family and friends.
	The following resolutions were unanimously adopted by
the Relief Society, that, whereas, the Lord has called
from our midst by the hand of death, our beloved Sister
Jane Hone Lee, therefore.
resolved, that we recognize in the death of our sister, the
loss of an able and efficient teacher in the Relief Society
of American Fork ward.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past, faithful labors and
great devotion to duty, as worthy the respect and emu-
lation of all.
	Resolved, that we deeply sympathize with the bereaved
husband and family in the loss of a kind wife and affection-
ate mother.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy be presented to the bereaved
family, and also one to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication.
			Committee.	EMMA FEATHERSTONE.
						CHARLOTTE SHELLEY.


OBITUARY.

	Sophia Minerva Foster Burgess peacefully passed away
on the 1st, day of Sept, at 4 o'clock p. m. at the residence 
of Bishop William H. Lee, Woodruff, Rich Co., Utah.
	She was born April 12th, 1810 in Madison, New Haven
Co., Ct. She first heard and received the Gospel in Vermont
while on a visit to relatives, was baptized Dec. 31st, 1831,
and immediately gathered with the saints to Kirtland Ohio,
remaining there about five years, during this period the
temple was finished and dedicated and she received many
blessings therein, was present when the Twelve and first
Seventy were called and ordained; her acquaintance with
the Smith family was intimate from whom she received
many favors and blessings. Her testimony of the divine
mission of the Prophet Joseph was true to the last. On the
1st, day of July 1835 she was married to Harrison Burgess,
shared in the Missouri persecution a portion of the time
being sick and nearly helpless, returned with the saints to
Illinois and after the completion of the temple assisted in
the labor performed therein. Was one of the Pioneer
daughters in the settlement of these mountain valleys.
She lived in Salt Lake City until 1862 when in connection
with her husband they answered a call to the Southern
mission; has done work for over 1,000 dead kindred in the
St. George Temple. In April 1889, she came to Woodruff
to visit her two nieces Harriet Carter Lee and Ruth Carter
Cornia. She was a firm believer in the principles of the
Gospel and died in the full hope of a glorious Resurrection
the meeting beyond will be a joyful one.
								S. C. PUTNAM.


UNION
PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
﻿PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION  TICKET  OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
C. E. INGALLS,     J. V. PARKER,
	City Pass. Agt.	Div.	Pass. Agt.

R.K.THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and in-
fant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence a class in
OBSTETRICS AND NURSING
On Monday, October 14, '89.
Course, Six Months. Tuition, $50.00
	For further particulars address
			DR. M. C. SHIPP,
				34 S. Seventh East Street.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

