VOL. 18.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1890.			No. 22.


CONTENTS.
	Hepzibah. Woman’s Works,—Lydia Lund.
R. S. Report,—Cassia Stake. Notes and News.
Silk Worms, R. S. General Conference. Wo-
man's Mind Equal to Man’s,—Ella F. Smith.
	Editorial. After Sixty Years. Seventy-Seven.
Editorial Note. Daughters Israel. S.W. Rich-
ards, W. S. A. Pleasant Grove,—F. E. S. U.
W. S. A. Convention,—Rachel Edwards, Sec’y.
Letter to Mrs. H. M. Whitney,—W. H. B.
	Poetry. In the Silent City,—L. M. Hewlings.
Felicia,—Augusta Joyce Crocheron. True Hearts
Ne’er Divided,—L. M. Hewlings. Coquettish
April,—E. B. W.


IN THE SILENT CITY.

In the Silent City, we have laid her down to rest,
Tired, worn and weary, sorely with cares opprest,
We would fain have here detained her, still an earthly
	guest,
E'en rebelling while we murmur, "God knoweth best."

Faithfully she struggled all life’s duties to fulfil
Patient in self-denial, meting good for ill. 
How much we mourn and miss her, no language e'er could
	tell,
While we sadly murmur, "He doeth all things well."

In the Silent City, we have laid our dear loved one,
No sweet responsive greeting, from her can come;
The voice that cheer’d and gladdened,is now forever dumb,
Yet we cry in anguish, "Thy will, not mine, be done."
								L. M. HEWLINGS.


FELICIA.

From cloistered walls and woman's care
He brought his only child;
Through shadowy halls and windows bright,
The sun stole in and checked its light
Where, garlanded by symbols old,
Legends of beauty, valor bold,
Her own dead mother's picture smiled.

From out those casements ivy-wreathed,
A dream like garden met her sight,
From out those turrets higher still,
Her eyes might rove and drink their fill
Of forest, lake and waterfall,
Nor weary grow from morn till night.

All guarded 'round, the ancestral lands
Were safe as her own fireside;
Through woods whose light was green with shade
Or flecked with gold where sunlight strayed,
And musical with songs of birds
Or silent, save her voice was heard
The child might wander undenied.

For height and glen and dimpled vale
Were her's by birth and the young Lord  
Had all his people's love, and she
The flowers of his ancestral tree,
Held in their hearts that tender place
None since her mother's death had graced
Now unto her in full restored.

So free to wander and return
At her sweet will; where lilies hide
In shadows cool, and mosses creep,
Where little brooks their heights o'erleap,
And silent pools gave back to her
The sight, in silence lovelier—
The maiden and her hound beside,

[Column 2]

"What hast thou in the green wood found?"
Then answered she with gentle grace;
"I have found what words cannot tell,
As echoes falling sink and swell
And while we listen, die away
Yet in our being sing alway,
Unnamed, yet keeping there a place."

So passed their days and oft he gazed
As one half dreaming, on her face,
Feasting his heart in tenderness
Upon her girlhood's loveliness,
Picturing sometimes, what would be
That form arrayed in dignity
Belonging to her name and place,

"But—Oh not yet, still let her bloom
Sweet as the wild rose and as free
Not yet, the time of that new life
When pride and praise and beauty's strife
Efface the holy bloom of youth
And trace across the heart of truth
First thoughts of human falsity.

"Not yet for her that hour of fate
'Mid worldly splendors' golden light,
When one shall come her heart to win,
Nor even she can see within
The guise his soul perhaps might wear
'Till time shall prove him false or fair
And make life's fulness or its blight.

"She comes! a dream of beauty, grace 
And purity.  Ah could I keep
Her peace forever sweet as this,
My heart would ask no dearer bliss."
Fair, silent as the moonbeam's ray
Where murmuring wavelets rippling play,
She came like one who walks in sleep.

And while he watched her fervently
She came straight-way his chair beside,
She wreathed her white arms round his neck
And, as though sudden words to check,
Against his own she laid her cheek
And trembled, yet she did not speak,
Nor sought the rare, bright tears to hide.

"What hast thou in thy roaming met?
Is't joy, or sorrow, or some fear?
Where are thy little page and hound,
To call me not with faithful sound
If, thou hast met with thought of fright,
Like some late bird at coming night
Though moon and stars are shining clear?

But oh, the answer in her eyes
Revealed a truth in sudden light;
The little bird safe in its next
And warm beneath its mother's breast;
Will try its wings and, and nevermore
Is the wee nestling as before
But a new creature by that flight.

So, a wide change before his eyes,
The care his love had thought to rear
Against the world was all in vain;
For, o'er its heights, like sun and rain
The soul of love unerring drew
And to its voice, strange, sweet and new
Her own made echo true and clear.

"My hound was ever near my side,
My little page not far away,
And neither fear or thought of night
Came in my path, but, to my sight
There came one, wandering as I
For pleasure, just as free birds fly
Nor think it wrong where'er they stray.

"I saw him first while swift he rode
Through the dim forest to the lake,
And watched him where cliff shadows fall

[Column 3]

Above the whirlpool, and the call
Of sea gulls mingle with the cries
Of singing birds far up the skies
And wind and wave one chorus make.

"I saw him where the timid fawn
Scarce leaves her nest for fear of him;
He plucked a flower where, overleap
The shining waters, falling deep,
And where a pool, like mirror lies,
And boughs o'erhead in columns rise
And flowers perfume the arches dim."

"And hast thou learned to love him, child?
Thou hast but little known of life;
For thee wait honors; our own name
Is centuries old and linked with fame;
Mine only child, I fain would twine
Title as high and fair with thine
When thou shalt bear the name of wife."

"He proves his birth by noble mien,
And all the world, without him there
Would be for me a lonely place,
Since I have seen his smiling face;
All honors won through centuries old
Are pale and faint, are dim and cold
If with his life I have no share."

"I deemed thy life as yet a child's.
Tell me how thou hast learned so soon
To value as of lesser worth,
Splendor and pomp of titled birth
Beside the love of one unknown,
And guided by its voice alone
Have reached ere morning fades, its noon?"

"Ask me why summer light is joy,
Ask me what music is and then
I can reply. I only know
Since his dark eyes looked at me so,
That, bird and brook, glade, flower and tree
Make with his voice a harmony
That chimes to me o'er and again."

A step drew near. Not little page
Bowed low and entered, it was one
Who came as suitor, loyally.
Sing, little birds in every tree!
For she had loved with faithful eyes
One worthy, in his huntsman's guise—
An Earl—their distant kinsman's son.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
April 7th 1890.


HEPHZIBAH.
				XIX.

	When love comes in the balmy summer hours, 
		While all the earth with conscious pleasure teems,
	We linger in fair Eden’s charmed bowers,
		And ponder o’er, and o’er, love’s happy dreams.

	The “Pearce Farm,” was just the place for
love-making, secluded, quiet and peaceful.
The great, square front-yard was full of old-
fashioned flowers in bloom, and the house was
fragrant all day long with the perfume of
honey suckle and sweetbrier, that clustered
about the doorways; hay-making is said to be
love-making time, and now the new-mown hay,
lay sweet and fresh in the meadows; and this
young stranger from abroad was in search of a
wife; (though Hepsie knew it not;) he deter-
mined to make love while the opportunity was
favorable; his heart was touched with “Cupid’s
arrow," the girl was simplicity itself to him,
and suited his mood, after his experience in [---]
world. Only twice afterwards did they meet,	
ere almost without an engagement they were


[Column 1]

wed. The question that decided Hephzibah's
fate was asked one lovely afternoon when they
were sauntering through the meadows, just as
the sun was gaily lighting up the Western
sky. Harold had been in a very poetic mood,
and very tender withal after the fashion of an
ardent admirer, of which Hepsie had not the
slightest practical idea, and when he asked her
if she loved him well enough to be his wife,
she looked down and sighed, she knew not
what answer to make and in place of any re-
ply he caught her in his arms and kissed her
passionately, and declared he could not live, if
she refused to marry him. Hepsie struggled
to free herself from his embrace, she knew not
what to say; it was true that she was fascinated
by his charming presence; but she felt more
like weeping than rejoicing, she begged him
to give her time to think it all over, it had
been so sudden, such a surprise, she had not
dreamed of any declaration. She could
scarcely believe it was true. "I must see my
mother," she said, "she will understand better
than I do, I cannot answer now, school has not
closed yet, there are many things to be con-
sidered, O, no I cannot marry a stranger, you
must not come again my heart tells me so."
	Harold replied with the firmness of one who
knew his influence, "Hepsie you are mine now,
if love can make us one, but I will not come
again, since you will have it so, good night,
I'll not go in," by this time they had reached
the door, "good night," he clasped her to his
bounding heart and was gone in a moment,
she had not spoken again, she listened to the
sound of the horse's hoofs as as he rode away
in the still, calm twilight, and she felt as though
all was over; stealing quietly into her room
she threw herself down upon the bed and
wept bitterly, the great round moon shone in
upon the bare floor and the shadows of the
tall elm trees were like ghosts to her weird
imagination. Bye and bye sleep came to her
relief and the morning found her calm and
self-possessed, At breakfast Farmer Pearce,
who was a man of very few words said, "Miss
Hathaway you were late coming in from your
evening walk, I heard the horse's hoofs down
the rocky hill, and by the bye young Harvey
is a Mormon, and though his father is an old
friend of mine, yet on your account I can't
encourage his visits here Mr. Beamen charged
me to keep Mormons away from you, I'm sorry
for Harold, he's desperately smitten;" Hepsie
felt so embarassed she could not speak, but
Mrs. Pearce came to the rescue in her cool
way "let Miss Hathaway alone 'Lihu she
knows how to take care of herself, and as for
Mr. Beamen he put her in our care, and I'll
answer for't she'll not fall in love with neither
young Harvey with his polishes, nor Bancroft
neither; I know somethin about girls, she's
no fool." After this defense Hepsie felt ex-
cused from any reply, she went to her room to
dress for school and Farmer Pearce went out
to his haying; but the dear old lady followed
Hepsie and said, "don't mind my old man, he's
very fond of you Miss Hathaway, and he thinks
you're too good for Mr. Bancroft—he likes
young Harvey, only you know his folks are
'Mormons,' rich as they are, and they mean to
go to Nauvoo soon, and I guess they'd like
Harold to get him a wife and go along with
um." Hepsie had hard work to keep still,
but she could not talk about it. "I must go
now Mrs. Pearce don't worry about me, I
never was like other people; and I can't please
everybody either."
	Hepsie was very much dissatisfied with
herself, and she thought over and over what
had transpired. She felt she was in no wise
responsible for the coming of this young man,
nor had she tried to win his love; she had
[---]nted companionship to be sure and every-
thing [---] seemed to turn the tide of affairs in
his favor. She felt a little lonely when she

[Column 2]

thought that he would not come to Beechwoods
again; and a trifle piqued too.
	Mr. Bancroft renewed his attention follow-
ing her about so that she decided not to take
any more walks much as she needed the
change. He gave her to understand that he
knew Mr. H. had been unceremoniously dis-
missed and that Farmer Pearce would not
allow him to come there, and he intimated
that his love was not very deep, for he had also
paid his addresses to another young
lady, "one of your friends and of
your faith too." Evidently he expected this
would rouse Hepsie's indignation, or jealousy
if she really had an affection for Harold; but
he failed; the girl was non-committal. Not
even the old farmer or his wife could find
out, whether she was in love or not. Mean-
while Mr. B. pressed his attentions upon her,
though he must have known she disliked him,
he expected to win in the end by persistency
as many lovers had done.
	Before school closed Miss H. had recieved
two or three letters from Miss Reynolds in
reference to Harold and one anonymous one
warning her to beware of young Harvey. She
knew the handwriting however though the
author had sought to disguise it. She only
answered one letter but that was shown to
Harold and confirmed him in his determination
to marry her. We have not space to tell all
the tumult of emotions that pervaded the heart
of Hepsie during the last three weeks of the
school. It was a curious experience for so
young a girl. Her sister Mrs. S. and others
had heard of the young stranger's visits and
had visited her to warn her against marrying
a "Mormon." She had made up her mind
that she would not be over-persuaded either
way, and each conversation she had with friend
or relative always resulted in a flood of tears.
	School closed at last and Hepsie returned
home the following day and gradually she was
let into the secret, her own secret, that she was
to be married. It was quite understood, every
one knew except herself—all the arrangements
had been made before her return. The
Harveys were going to Nauvoo and many
other families from adjoining villages. There
seemed to be a special Providence in this
affair and everything tended in the direction
of the union of Harold and Hepsie. Had
the girl become more acquainted with him, the
marriage might never have been solemnized
but it was all managed as it were without
"common consent:" Hepsie had argued with
her mother thus "it will mar all my plans for
future action, everything will have to be
changed henceforth, all the golden vision of
my rose-hued future, my ambition to become
an author, must be buried in oblivion."
And she reasoned with herself, "Will his love
be sufficient to compensate me for all that I
have looked forward to,—the dreams of my
child-life, the ambition of my girlhood." She
was not quite satisfied; it was like a sacrifice
after all.
	A quiet wedding in a country village, the
one where Hephzibah was born and where
three generations of the family had taken an
active part. The morning was very beautiful;
many and fervent were the congratulations of
the villagers and friends, and yet there was
a degree of disappointment apparent. It was
not what had been expected, for many friends
had foretold for her a brilliant future. It really
seemed inconsistent that she should marry
young and settle down like other people to
common-place pursuits.
	It was strange that after the ceremony was
over, and the people had dispersed, for there
was neither wine nor wedding cake, or "a mar-
riage feast." of any kind: it was very strange
that the bride should have chosen of all places
in the world to take Harold for a ramble to
"the paternal mansion," it was not exactly in

[Column 3]

keeping with bridal garments, but it proved to
be a premonition of the future.
	Harold was enthusiastic in expressing his
new-found happiness, but Hepsie could not re-
joice. She could only see the old house as it
had been, her grand-pa sitting by the fire or
under the shade of the elms, and feel his hands
upon her head caressing her in the most endear-
ing terms. Soon after the marriage the young
couple took up their abode with Mr. and Mrs.
Harvey, who were busy making preparations
for gathering with the Saints to Nauvoo.
Hepsie soon found that a great deal was ex-
pected of her, more than she was equal to pre-
form. It was a frequent remark of Mrs.
Harvey's "I'm surprised you have such shift-
less ways, with all our money I would not
have brought up a girl in such an idle lacka-
daisical manner as you have been.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S WORKS.

	I do not believe woman desires to rise above
man, or usurp any of his rights. And would
the opposers of "Woman’s Suffrage furnish
every lady with an upright intelligent, sober,
working husband, they would be willing to
stand by his side as his counselor and educator
of his children.
	But let us take a glance around the world,
and see her true condition. If it be across
ocean or in our own loved land, we find women
 not by the hundreds or thousands, but by the
millions thrown on their own resources for
support, young girls homeless with parents
unable to provide for them, wives widowed
by death or desertion, or worse still husbands
who fail to support them, and they, left to pro-
vide for their families. Then if woman must
take equal responsiblities with man, should
she not have equal rights. 
	There are many positions in which she gives
as good satisfaction as a man for instance in
the schoolroom, in the sales room, or
as type setter, and in many other places of
trust, but is she recompensed with equal salary?
No! for the same work, she receives from 1/3 to
1/2 less pay.
	But the majority of women are not prepared
for any of these positions and must eke out a
meager living by earning a mere pittance at
the hardest drudgery.
	Then is it to be wondered at, that her more
fortunate sisters seek to help lift her burdens,
to alleviate her woes and clamor for equal rights
and laws, that the training and education of
the child should be self suporting.
	For a woman who can face the world and
feel herself equal to any fate that may befall
her is richer, than if she posessed government
bonds.
	Woman’s cause is just and will eventually
succeed.
	Then let us as a band of sisters, not tire in
the good work we have just begun, but march
onward, ever onward until success crowns our
united efforts and right wins the day.
						LYDIA LUND


The Value of Detached Ideas! That de-
pends—upon whose ideas they are: whether
the idea is one of Shakespeare’s myriads, or of
old Montaigne’s thousands, or Bacon’s or
Pascal’s or Goethe’s hundreds,  or Emerson’s
scores—an idea that can stand by itself, an
idea which is like a rose from your garden,
which does not need the garden itself to en-
hance its beauty; an idea which is like a beau-
tiful pillar from a Greek temple, more than
an ordinary temple itself, for a temple is only
a place for worship, while this is a thing to
worship—for its beauty. The value of this—
of beauty and the love of beauty—will stand
as long as the world stands.
						Woman’s Cycle.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	TRUE HEARTS NE'ER DIVIDED.

[TO A DEAR ONE.]

BY L. M. HEWLINGS.

Dear loved one, I am sitting in the warm half-open door,
Sunshine falls in golden showers around me on the floor,
Gay-birds sweet songs are singing and the warm breeze
	floating by,

Whispers winter is departing, glad spring is drawing nigh.
Oh! I do not grieve that winter is fleeing fast away,
No, spring is ever welcome, with her soft and tuneful lay,
The streamlets gushing music, the cool, green lawn and
	bower,
Bring to my soul a feeling of deeply thrilling power.
Bright beauteous tinted fairy! in smiles and softness
	dressed,
Haste thou and do not tarry, come earth's stricken ones to
	bless;
There's magic in thy sunshine, healing in each soft-breathed
	air,
Surely thou hast power to soothe all sorrow but despair!
My thoughts they will go roaming, they are turning unto
	thee.
And my heart is sadly yearning thy smile again to see,
For a message from thy hand I have looked the winter
	long,
But no spell has silence broken, in sunshine or in storm.
Thro' the whole long flight of days, have no odds or ends
	of time,
Been found to pen a letter in plain prose or mystic rhyme'
Breathing of joy or sadness, as thy days might prove to be,
Yet with sweet assurance blended of love and truth to me?
Now the sunlight soft and golden, is fading from the floor,
And twilight shadows gather around the open door,
Thro' the dim and shadowy past I'm roaming fancy free,
And voices seem to whisper softly loving words to me.
Blest hope and trust, are mine again, guardians of the way,
My sky is bright with love and joy, I see no evil day,
No shadows of a coming gloom around my spirit fall,
Life’s sweetest flowers gaily bloom—their light is over all.
I dream not now of broken ties, of loved ones scatter'd
	wide,
A group of loving ones are near—we're roamingside by
	side,	
Radiant smiles and tender words breathe music in my heart,
No cold farewells, no sad adieus, no sighing "we must
	part."
Oh! 'tis sweet to travel back e'en in thought to days of
	youth,
Gather up the sunny ways, of pure unsullied truth,
Fresh garlands of that hopeful time, when gladness would
	hold sway,
In our life's bright dewy morning; the green and budding
	May!
Now the shadows of the twilight have deepen'd into night,
The last bright golden glimpse of day has faded far from
	sight.
And the silver moon is smiling after o'er land and waves,
With holy luster gilding many quiet lonely graves.
And some there are of our loved ones, on whom her light
	is shed.
The dust of which our wand'ring feet on earth may never
	tread.
But this truth do not forget, tho' our homes apart be wide,
No earthly barriers yet could true loving hearts divide.
Fond souls together may commune tho' water broad and
	deep,
Vast rolling prairies stretch between and mountains high
	and steep.


COQUETTISH APRIL.

Coquettish April with her smiling face
	Bespangled with the dewdrops and the rain;
One moment laughing with a winsome grace,
	With all her mocking, and deceptive train,—
Promising sunshine, seedtime, bud and bloom—
	And then anon tossing her haughty head,
While breath of violets waft a sweet perfume,
	And o'er the land their welcome fragrance shed,—
As if in recompense of mischief done;
	Of promises unkept, vows unfulfilled;   
From early morn until the set of sun,
	Capricious as a naughty child self-willed.


The hues of many flowers adorn her way,
	And rippling music of the brooks and rills,
Keep time, while elves and fairies dance and play,
	In the sly nooks of verdure-covered hills.

She blows the dandelions in our very eyes,
	And curls the stems as playthings in her hands,
And laughs coquettishly at the surprise,
	Of those who wot not of her witching bands.
She fans us with a South wind as a child,
	Then like a tempest in a mad'ning gale
She frowns, and moans, and shrieks in fury wild.
	As tho' the fate of all the world to wail.

She has not grandeur but forsooth she knows
	How to allure the wisest and the best;
And when at evening hour we seek repose
	She oft disturbs our slumber and our rest,
By flashing lightning's and the thunder's roar,
	And the commotion of "the powers that be."
While cloud-bursts in their fierceness downward pour
	Until the roseate light of morn we see.

So doth fair April herald in the Spring,
	And seemingly delight to tease and vex;
Her wonderful allurements she doth bring.
	Sometimes to charm but oftener to perplex.

The daffodils spring up beneath her feet,
	And with their hues, the skies are mirrored oft
The daisies, tulips, pansies, join to greet
	This maid of April with her smiles so soft,
When covering herself with mantle green,
	She treadeth lightly over hill and plain,
But wheresoe'er her footprints have been seen,
	We know her coming hath not been in vain.
She beareth lilies in her virgin breast,
	And holds within her hands the sacred palm,
And on a Sabbath morn supremely blest
	When nature spreads a sacred calm,—
Lo, she rehearses o'er the Savior's birth,
	How in a lowly manger He was born;
His life, His mission, and His goings forth,
	His advent on the Resurrection morn.
So blest is April with this Jubiiee
	No wonder that her moods are gay and sad,
For life o'er death then gained the victory,
	On that fair morning all the earth was glad.

Stay yet a moment more and we shall see,
	How full of passion is this timid maid,
She fills all nature with her songs of glee,
	Then blushes, as a virgin half-afraid
Of her own beauty, and her loveliness;
	Conscious of what she can but ill conceal,
Responding to each burst of tenderness
	She doth awake and all her charms reveal.
The bounding pulse of nature fuller thrills,
	When April comes, and melts the icy streams,
The gladness of "the everlasting hills,"
	O'er, all the vales, with bright resplendence beams.
We call thee, the coquette, for thou dost dare
	More icy hearts to break, than all the rest,
And leave them for the other maids to wear,
	When thou hast put their mettle to the test.
Fair Cupid points at thee his winged dart,
	But so enchanted is he with thy power,
He does not even wound thy maiden heart
	But whiles away with thee, the potent hour.
		E. B. W.
April 1890.


R. S. REPORT. 

			CASSIA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Cassia Stake convened at Oakley
on the 21 st. of March a morning and after-
noon session being held; Pres. Louisa Haight
presiding with her counselors. 
	There were present the Stake Presidency
and several other brethren, also a very good
attendance of sisters. 
	The verbal reports, by the representatives
of the various wards, showed the members
striving to do their best; the unusually severe
weather of the winter had hindered the sisters
much in their labors and gatherings, but in all 
the wards they had managed their monthly


testimony meetings, though in some had been
obliged to discontinue their sewing sessions.
	During the conference many of the sisters
and brethren bore testimony to the truth and
spoke in an instructive manner, the burden
of their remarks being: the teaching of children
the principles of truth and the Gospel in their
early youth: the doing each day what is at our
hands that our duty may be performed: the
great privilege of meeting together to speak of
the goodness of God: that His hand overrules
all things: that the saints have never been
forsaken by Him, trials no cause for discourage-
ment, present time best to serve the Lord, 
brethren should co-operate with the sisters in 
their endeavors as a society, work for the dead; 
Church of God will prevail though unpopular:
duty of members of society to seek out the
sick and lonely, duty of brethren to preach to 
the nations of the earth, duty of sisters to 
teach at home and set a religious example there, 
hearts are needed as well as dollars in the
building up of the kingdom of God, if we 
expect our prayers to be answered we must
put forth our own energies in that direction. 
	Pres. Lousia Haight proposed that a Fair
be held during the coming Fall, to which
various branches of the Relief Society of the
stake should join in contributing some thing
of interest and usefulness, wished to see home-
work of all kinds encouraged. 
	Conference adjourned for three months.
					LOUSIA HAIGHT Pres.
					LOUSIA PICKETT Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	The estate of Robert Browning amounted 
to eighty-five thousand dollars—all earned by
writing poetry. 
	THE theme of the Japanese national anthem, 
as recently rendered in English, is: "Oh, that
the reign of our emperor might continue thou-
sands and thousands of years—until oyster
shells become rocks."
	The story that Mrs. General Grant will
publish a volume of the dead warrior's love
letters to herself is untrue. It grows out of
her intention to put into historical form much
of the valuable material that she necessarily
collected during her eventful life.
	The bill for the admission of the state of 
Wyoming with a constitution guaranteeing
equal suffrage to women passed the House of
Representatives on Thursday afternoon, March
27, by a strict party vote,—yeas 132, nays 119;
every Republican voting in favor and every 
Democrat against it. Welcome Wyoming!
	MRS. EMILY CRAWFORD, the noted Journalist
of London, says in answer to the question "what
do you think of journalism as a profession for
women?”  "Well.  I should say the first requi-
site was a giant constitution. A woman of 
delicate physique may do good by spells, but
the ceaseless grind of the regular journalistic
life requires the strongest constitution."


SILK WORMS.

	Mr. D. Graves has received another circu-
lar from the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
in which it is stated that persons desirous of
obtaining silk worm eggs can do so by apply-
ing to him and answering the following ques-
tions:
	Have you ever raised silk worms before?  If
"yes," state how many seasons you have raised
silk worms.
	Do you intend to use mulberry or orange
leaves in feeding the worms? 
	Have you a copy of Prof. Riley's pamphlet.
entitled, "The Mulberry Silk Worm" published
since 1885?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs.  City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 23 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 15, 1890.


AFTER SIXTY YEARS.

	The General Conference of the Church which
convened on the 6th of April 1890, was the
sixtieth Annual Conference and marks an event-
ful period in the age of the Church, three score,
six decades.  There are probably only a very few
people now living who were baptized into this
Church or who even knew of its origin in the year
1830.  The writer does not even know of one now
living though in all probability there may be some.
It is a long time to look back upon and "a mar-
velous work and a wonder" has been performed 
during this period of the history of the world.
The Latter-day Saints perfectly understand that
the most stupendous part of the work remains yet
to be performed.  The foundation stones have
been laid by those great men who have passed
away; only a few of those associated with Joseph
the Prophet yet live.  One very remarkable man
who was connected with this work at a very early
period, Wilford Woodruff for several years Presi-
dent of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and
now the President of the Church, whose ac-
quaintance with Joseph Smith probably dates
farther back than that of any other man now liv-
ing.
	This wonderful work is progressing notwith-
standing all the opposition, and persecution
brought to bear against it, the Church has in-
creased in numbers and in prosperity, flourished
and grown strong.
	During the Conference held this month which
lasted three days many thousands of people were
in regular attendance, morning and afternoon, and
thrilling discourses were delivered by the vener-
able President Wilford Woodruff and Pres. Geo.
Q. Cannon, of the First Presidency and by
Apostle Lorenzo Snow President of the Quorum
of the Twelve, also Apostle F. D. Richards
Church Historian, and nearly every member of
the entire Quorum.  Other Elders were also 
called upon to speak from time to time and the
Conference throughout was one of great import.
It certainly cannot be said after such an assem-
bling of the people from all quarters, that "Mor-
monism" is dying out, or the faith of the people
waxing cold.  On the contrary there was positive
proof furnished that Zion is growing, and all the
efforts of its enemies are fruitless.  Nothing can
stay its progress for it is not man's work, neither
can man overthrow it.  It is the little stone cut
out of the mountain without hands, and it will
roll forth and fill the whole earth and no power
can hinder it. So after sixty years we find this
magnificent structure healthy, strong and vigorous
in all the parts and branches thereof, spreading
itself afar among the nations, on the continents 
and the islands of the sea, and the Elders clothed
with the holy priesthood going out and proclaiming
gald tidings to those who sit in darkness, and


are afar off, warning them of dangers and calami-
ties and exhorting them to be upon the watch
tower and to prepare for the day of the coming of
the Lord.


SEVENTY-SEVEN.

	On Friday April 11th a party of ladies met by
special invitation at the residence of Mrs. Annie
E. Hyde, to celebrate the anniversary of the
birthday of the lady's mother, Mrs. Jane B.
Taylor, widow of the late President John Taylor;
Mrs. Taylor has reached the advanced age of
seventy-seven years, and many of those have
been spent in the service of the Church. The
afternoon was passed in congratulations to the
honored lady, exchanges of greetings, relating
past experiences, and in discussing the events of
"the day in which we live."
	A bounteous repast was served, the table being
handsomely decorated with flowers etc., and the
ladies were waited upon by Mrs. Hyde herself
and her two interesting daughters. Afterwards
a sort of parlor meeting was held Mrs. Presendia
L. Kimball the eldest lady present being chosen
to preside; (the lady is in her 80th year). After
singing an earnest prayer was offered by Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, and each one of the sisters
present, beginning with Sister Presendia, ex-
pressed themselves in a few fitting words con-
gratulatory to Sister Taylor and their good de-
sires and efforts to assist in the Latter-day work,
and promote union; after a good season of rejoic-
ing spent in this way, with many allusions to
those sisters who had passed away, special men-
tion being made of Sisters Marinda Hyde, Sarepta
Heywood, Eliza R. Snow, Phebe Woodruff, Vilate
Kimball and Mother Whitney, Sister Mary Ann
Hyde exercised the gift of tongues, and Sister
Zina interpreted. A happy feeling was mani-
fested by all, and the meeting was dismissed with
singing and a benediction by Sister B. W. Smith.
Such reunions are both pleasant and profitable
spiritually; all feft to wish Sister Taylor many
happy returns of the day with health and pros-
perity as long as life should be desirable. Sister
Taylor received many little gifts and remem-
brances from her family and friends.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	Miss Flora E. Finlayson of the "Bostonians"
who recently performed in the Opera here was
studying at the New England Conservatory dur-
ing the time Prof. Evan Stephens was there and
also Miss Daisie D. Woods. While she was here
in the City Prof. Stephens and Miss Woods ar-
ranged to have a sort of impromptu recital for her
in the large Tabernacle Thursday Apr. 3, and
let her try her voice in that large building.
Prof. Radcliffe who is always extremely obliging
consented also to play a few pieces and Prof.
Stephens played Miss Finlayson's accompani-
ment on the organ, and she sang those simple
ballads "Annie Laurie," and "Love's Old Sweet
Song," in a most unaffected style and excellent
voice, as great singers always do. She has a rich
contralto voice and is one of the soloists of the
Bostonians. She is very handsome and graceful,
a genteel figure and very pleasing in manner. She
is a Western girl from Reno, Nevada and at the
N. E. Conservatory in Boston was known as
"Nevada." Prof. Radcliffe rendered some choice
selections from Baptiste in his very best style,
and it is well known here what that is. He has
made many friends since his residence in Salt
Lake City. Miss Finlayson paid one or two visits
to this office and sang several of her best songs
in the parlor of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. She is
rather new in opera but she is sure to win name
and fame, for she is not only a fine singer but has
winning ways, is modest, unassuming and also
beautiful and accomplished.


DAUGHTERS OF ISRAEL.

	Every living soul should have constantly before
it some aim, some object in view that is attain-
able, and that is calculated to stimulate the en-
ergies and arouse the ambition and aspirations
that man is capable of exercising.
	Latent powers are but dead or hidden energies.
They must be started into life by the presentation
of considerations that shall seem both pleasure-
able and desirable,—something that has an
affinity with the soul and worthy of its most
zealous determinations. Something that shall be
a sure guide, a permanent landmark, or like the
buoy made fast in the channel of the deep; how-
ever rough may be the waves of the tempestuous
waters, is a sure guide to the port or haven de-
sired.
	The haven of rest to man is beyond; it is only
reached after riding the waves and billows of a
tempestuous life—a life of trials, often of extreme
sorrow. He needs a beacon light to his path that
shall be an anchor to his hopes, a dispeller of his
fears. Hopes may bud and bloom while here,
but the fruit will only ripen in the hereafter.
This is a preparatory state, a day of probation
in which to make ready for our appearance in the
next or future state. This fact is so universally
accepted by the almost entire race of man that it
needs no argument in proof. The very savages
of our race look forward with delight to the bliss
of the happy hunting grounds to be their portion
in the hereafter.
	For a familiar illustration let us say it is like a
dressing room where we are to go through all the
formula of preparing for a suitable appearance
in society—whether it be for the gaiety of the ball
room, or the more retired enjoyment of the society
of familiar friends. The preparation of the dress-
ing room includes all of personal cleanliness, fit
and elegance of attire,indeed every thing that shall
make more attractive the person who desires to
be recognized as one of taste and culture, with
that refinement which makes the presence of one
desirable and pleasing to another of like ex-
cellence and culture.
	Adornments of various kinds, both costly and
unique are sought after for such occasions, and if
we do not possess them we will oft-times forego
the desired pleasure, rather than appear in an un-
becoming manner. All this is considered essential
to the gaiety of the circle, and the brilliancy of
the apartments where the guests are invited to
participate in the favors of Royalty.
	We recognize the greatest propriety in all this,
as being entirely suited to our personal conduct
now as social beings, and we are led to ask:
when will it be less so?
	This being the day of our probation in which to
prepare for a glorious future,—for admission into
the presence of Celestial beings who are basking
in all the splendor of a Celestial Kingdom, and
the purity of a Divine Presence; we may well in-
quire if we are putting on those garments of
Praise that will make our society there as agree-
able as we strive to make it here.
	There must be no stain upon our garments
there. Purity demands that they be white and
spotless. There the spiritual is revealed and
comprehended. The spirit there must be clean
from sin, free from guilt, free from all that cor-
rupts:—from all immoral taint or impurity; re-
deemed from all that would be a reproach to the
immortal throng into whose presence we hope to
be ushered when bidden to the marriage supper
of the Lamb; when none will be permitted to re-
main who have not on a suitable wedding gar-
ment.
	To enter into and enjoy the Celestial presence
we must exchange this mortal for the immortal;
this human for the divine; this temporal for the
spiritual; that which is of man for that which is
of God.


The question now is are we getting suitably
clad, how fast are we putting on those adorn-
ments that will make us attractive there in that
gay throng of glorified ones? All must be done
here that will secure to us favor, love and glory
there.
	As the woman is not without the man in the
enjoyment of all these conditions that are to fill
the soul with that fulness of joy that is now un-
speakable, a very important feature of her pre-
paratory work will consist in forming no alliance
with any man who will not make it his first, his
highest and holiest consideration to so live as to
be worthy of admittance there with her as partner
to all that the soul may be capacitated to enjoy;
dwelling in the midst of purity—in the fulness of
a divine love, and in all the glory that comes from
a knowledge of God with His eternal favor.
	Let the daughters of Israel be so instructed,
that they will see to it, that there is no barrier,
no obstacle in their way by reason of their own
choice, that shall prevent their free entrance
through the pearly gates into the Holy City and
mansion of God's eternal presence.
	Woman's nature is averse to the vulgarity of
the vile. Her delicate and refined nature justifiies
her in declining the attentions of any man when
offered in duplicity and on degrading terms.
	The fair daughters of Israel may well decline—
indeed should refuse to listen to one whose mouth
is the cesspool of filthy weeds, of poisonous in-
toxicants, of lies and profanity; whose heart is
full of deceit and evil passions, devoid of love
or charity, and whose tongue is full of hypocrisy.
	When they will give no countenance to these
prevailing and ruling passions of the man, he will
forsake his vices and wickedness to gain the favor
of the fair and pure, and he will follow her back
to the paradise of heavenly joys; and she may
have the honor and glory of adding another gem
to the bright crown of their mutual and eternal
inheritance in love's dominion.
	Thus women may become "savior's upon
mount Zion" as well as men, and justly share in
the glory of his redemption, as well as with him
the burdens and trials of life socially, politically,
and religiously; all tending and resulting to the
glory of God, by and through the exaltations and
eternal life of man.
		S. W. RICHARDS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. PLEASANT GROVE.

	Pleasant Grove organized a W. S. A. March 15.
House called to order by Mrs. E. Brown, choir
sang, prayer by the Chaplain Mrs. E. Harper.
Officers duly elected Mrs. F. E. Stewart, Pres.
Vice Pres. Emily H. Bullock, Secretary Mrs. L.
Lund, Cor. Sec. Miss Amy Bosza, Treasurer Mrs.
E. Thorn, Executive Com. appointed. A lecture
"The Advancement of Woman," by Mrs. Rose
Hays. The speaker portrayed the necessity of
striving for our just rights and fitting ourselves
for any sphere we might be called to occupy.
Recitation "Barbara Fretchie," by Miss Clara
Stewart, Essay "Woman's Work," by Mrs. Lydia
Lund, speech by Mrs. E. Brown, instrumental
music by Libbie Mayhew, a lecture by Mrs. Ella
Smith, "Woman's Mind Equal to Man's." A
stirring speech by Mrs. M. A. Phelps, song by
Miss Eva Frampton, a speech by Mrs. M. A.
Winters, replete with many truths plainly eluci-
dated. A speech by Pres. Stewart in which the
object, aim and purpose of the meeting was set
forth.
		F. E. S.


U. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	The Annual Convention of the National Ameri-
can W. S. A. of Utah Ter.; was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, Thursday April 3, 1890


commencing at 2 p. m. Mrs. S. M. Kimball in
the Chair. Prayer by the Chaplain Mrs. E. B.
Wells, minutes read and approved. Report of
Emery Co. W. S. A. by the President Mrs. S. A.
Fullmer. Mrs. E. Y. Stanford President of the
Ogden W. S. A. gave a brief report. Mrs. Susa
Y. Gates reported Utah Co. W. S. A. and made a
telling speech. Referred to the former President's
death and the consequent necessity of reorganiza-
tion, said they had endeavored to organize a civil
government class and to study divorce laws and
those relating specially to women. They held
parlor meetings and discussed these subjects.
They were to have a public debate on the 23rd of
April, the subject "Shall woman have the fran-
chise?" 540 members enrolled.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball commented upon the Com-
mon Law as it stood upon the Statute Books o
many of the States—that made woman the goods
and chattels of her husband etc., and the good
work accomplished by Mrs. Packard before
Legislatures, her success in getting this obnoxious
statute stricken out in many States and Terri-
tories.
	Morgan, Cache, Sanpete and Sevier Counties
not reported. Beaver Co. W. S. A. represented
by Mrs. S. C. Maeser, said they had songs
lectures, essays etc., members 40. Mrs. S. S.
Boyer of Springville W. S. A. reported 125 mem-
bers, they were studying municipal government,
with other subjects. She made a glowing speech
full of suggestions and pertinent with facts. Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young had recently visited Nephi and
gave a good report of the W. S. A. of Juab Co.
Lehi W. S. A. reported by Mrs. Josephine
Brown, 150 members, meetings held regularly,
study of civil government with an aim to gain
a political education.
	Prof. Alexander of Canada gave quite an elo-
quent address in which he set forth the absurdity
of women publicly ridiculing men etc. Thought
the ladies should strike out in new paths, said it
was impossible to legislate morals; the home
must be the center of these—home-rule is pro-
gressive.
	The Chairman Mrs. Kimball answered some
objectionable points in his remarks in a very
polite manner. Mrs. M. Y. Dougall gave an in-
teresting review of her trip to Washington with
Mrs. Kimball, related some pleasing incidents.
	Convention adjourned sine die.
		RACHEL EDWARDS, Sec'y.
	The officers of the W. S. A. the Delegates from
other places and some other ladies met after-
wards at Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie's and partook of
refreshments, joining in informal conversation
and asking questions on the subject of suffrage
etc.—Ed.


[Column 1]

LETTER TO MRS. H. W. WHITNEY.

EXTRACTS.

	I am sure, though I failed to reply to your
favor, as I should have done, you will still be-
lieve in my manifestations of friendship, and that
you will still continue to realize, in me, the
changeless elements of a true friend.—My family,
as well as myself were exceedingly glad to get
your photo', and it now finds a place in a beauti-
ful album, that reposes on a marble topped stand
in my front parlor. I take great pleasure in show-
ing it to frequent callers, and pleased to tell them
it is a fair representation of a real live "Mor-
mon" lady, one to whom I am greatly indebted
for favors when I called at her far Western home
some years ago.—I accept your excuse for delay
in writing—think it a laudable one, and I deeply
sympathize with you in your week and enfeebled
condition. If I never receive another line from
your pen, I shall still think you are my true, trust-
ing and devoted friend.

[Column 2]

	I am aware that you are deprived of the
pleasure of friendly correspondence to a large
degree, that your burden, in many respects, is not
a light one. The recent deaths in your family,
your bad state of health, the continued annoyance
and cruel treatment of your people by the pious
advocates of what I conceive to be a false system
of religion—all these are well calculated to rob
you of many of the chief pleasures of life, and
take away much of the glorious sunlight of ex-
istence.
	My son, who is now in college, is a close friend
and associate of the son of ex-Gov. Robinson, of
the Utah Commission—a man who evidently is no
favorite of the "Mormon" people. And Mr.
Robinson recently made the statement, that your
Church was a bitter enemy of the Government—
that all your pretense of loyalty was the most in-
fernal hypocrisy, and that certain of your
Church officials were bound by the most sacred
oaths to fight—in a certain way—for the total
annihilation of the sacred liberties of the Ameri-
can people. Now, Clarence, my son asked me
very particularly as to the truth of these state-
ments, and I referred him to a certain little article
I had in my possession written on the subject in
question, by your venerable President Mr. Wood-
ruff. I cannot, I will not accept such egregious
statements, for I see nothing in your past history
to indicate that you are antagonistic to Rupuli-
can institutions. One does not necessarily have
to be wedded to your faith to see the great in-
justice that is being done to your people. But it
has been the tendency of the Christian, as well
as other religions, to persecute for opinion sake;
and the present methods of persecution towards
"Mormonism" are no exception to the rule.
	When I was in the South, during the late war,
I frequently heard Christian ministers invoke
Deity to send death, destruction and unutterable
ruin to the usurpers of the North. I have also
heard them recommend the members of their
Church to take the bells from the towers, cast
them into cannons with which to blow to h—ll
the souls of all Yankee tyrants.
	When I came West to Indiana I listened to the
same thing from the ministers here.—And last
comes the great Talmage and recommends the
destruction of your people.
	I can't be a Christian—I can't tolerate the un-
warranted persecution of any sect, or creed,—I
believe in  universal, religious liberty, and the
same sacred rights for all people, and I have no
fears of the future, when the toils of a well-spent
life are ended. My religious philosophy may be
considered defective, but my aims and purposes
in this world are to do all the good I can for my
fellow men, and as little harm. If you could learn
my business life here from the poorer classes, you
would accept what I say as true. I control a
cash capital of $40,000 and not a cent is in the
hands of wealthy people, or speculators. It is al
used to assist those who are honest and needy. I
fear I have already worn out your patience, and
I must bring my letter to a close.—We have had
one of the most pleasant winters ever experienced
in this latitude. To day the fields are green as
early spring time, and it is warm and inspiring.
Would be pleased to hear from you soon—I occa-
sionally get copies of News and EXPONENT.
Please tell me of yourself and family, remember
me to Mrs. Wells, and believe me ever your
friend.
		W. H. B.


R. S. GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The first Annual Conference of the Relief
Society of all the Stakes of Zion, was held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this City on
Monday, April 7, 1890 commencing at 10 a. m.
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding. On the


[Column 1]

stand with her were her Counselors Mrs. J. S.
Richards and Mrs. B. W. Smith, the Secretary
Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Treasurer Mrs. M. I.
Horne also the Cor Sec'y. Mrs. E. B. Wells and
Assistant Sec'y., Dr. R. B. Pratt. Presidents
of R. S. of the several Stakes of Zion were
seated in one of the stands.
	There was a large congregation of women with
a few men scattered here and there, Confer-
ence opened by singing,

	"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah."

	Prayer was offered by Mrs. M. I. Horne,
continued by singing,

	"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation."

	Minutes of the forenoon of last semi annual
Conference were read and approved. Pres.
Zina Young welcomed the congregation in her
most happy manner, said we were living in a
peculiar time, yet never felt better, realized the
beginning of the end was near at hand; felt so
anxious concerning the daughters of Zion, that
she would give her life, if it would save them
from the many snares and temptations sur-
rounding them at the present time. Asked
the sisters in the most earnest manner if any
of them had hard feelings towards another;
she would wait a few moments to give them
time for reflection;—sisters if you have hard
feelings waive them, put them away. It is our
duty to train the children that they may be
prepared for the work they will have to do
"We sorrow because of persecution, but God
reigns and all things will work together for
good for those that serve Him. He also rules
the elements, and the calamities that are now
coming have been predicted by His servants,
and we cannot avert them, any more than
Joseph of old could when he foresaw the
scourges that were coming upon his brethren;
he knew it but could not hinder it neither can
we. We mourn the conditions that have
brought about these things, and we desire to
assist in elevating humanity and bless the
world; we must learn to be charitable and to
love each other. Sisters remember sixty years
ago yesterday this Church was organized with
six members, in that first little meeting."
	Dr. Pratt then read a part of the statistical
and financial report from the several Stakes,
after which Mrs. S. M. Kimball made some
suitable remarks, sympathized with the au-
dience in having to listen to the report, but ex-
plained that it was a part of the labors of the
Relief Society. The Prophet Joseph said a
part of our labor was to learn to do business
in a parliamentary manner, it is not interesting
to all but it is an important matter.
	Pres. M. John R. S. Utah Stake gave a brief
report of the organizations and remarked that
she felt proud of the labors of the sisters, and
also spoke of the work they had done in silk
culture and felt to bless all.
	Pres. M. Pitchforth, R. S. Juab Stake, "we
have the gifts of the Gospel with us and if we
have not these we have "the still small voice,"
and we are striving to live the religion we
profess. We have been brought to this land
by the power of God;" said she was the first to
receive the Gospel in the town where she lived
when only fifteen years old, and she prayed
then for the faith that the Elders had who
preached to them, and her faith  had grown
with the years; "though we came to these
valleys a little handful we have become
a wealthy people, and our wealth increases,
may our faith also increase; I know God is at
the helm and He will guide the ship of Zion
safely," she felt with Sister Zina that these were
trying times but never felt better.
	Dr. Pratt finished reading the report which
was accepted.
	 Hon. A. Maitland Stenhouse Ex. Member of
Parliament from Canada, then addressed the
meeting by the invitation of the President. He
esteemed it a privilege to stand in the presence

[Column 2]

of so large an assembly of the saints, whose
history and whose works have constituted the
evolution of the kingdom of God: expressed
his belief in the divinity of the Prophet Joseph
and that the primitive Church was under the
direct influence of the Holy Ghost. Realized
that 1800 years the Church had been without
prophets and Apostles the true Church was
withdrawn and no representative of it was upon
the earth; admitted that there had been a
sublime power that had blest and elevated
humanity and that had lifted up the people
in one land after another, but the ministers of
the Latter-day Saints preach the Gospel every-
where without money and without price.
The speaker alluded in the most favorable
terms to the Rev. Edward Irving a dis-
tinguished Presdyterian who had made a wide
mark from all other preachers, and from this
teachings had grown up the Apostolic Catholic
faith. His was an earnest, eloquent nature.
He added many other remarks on this and
other subjects of interest.
	The Conference was adjourned until 2 p. m.
singing,

	"Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing."

	Benediction by Mrs. B. W. Smith.
	Afternoon session: singing,

	"Guide us O, Thou Great Jehovah."

Prayer by Mrs. Minerva W. Snow, singing,

	"How firm a foundation."

	Minutes of the evening session of the Con-
ference in October last read and accepted.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde Pres. R. S. Sanpete Stake,
made the opening speech, said she had been
fifty years in the Church, and one year after 
she gathered with the Saints to Nauvoo; bore
testimony to the divinity of Joseph Smith's
mission and spoke concerning the divine truths
taught by him, of which she was a living wit-
ness; she also spoke earnestly upon charity,
thought we should stir up each other's minds
by way of remembrance. Relieving the wants
of the poor and comforting the sorrowful was
a great work and in it the sisters were blest;
spoke highly of the industry of the sisters in
Sanpete; they had been diligent in storing up
wheat, and performing the duties of the 
Society.
	Mrs. Adeline Barber Pres. of R. S. Cache
Stake, reported the organizations over which
she presided, praised the sisters for their good
works in the various duties devolving upon
them, rejoiced in her labors, and also that she
was a worker in the Temple, reported the
Canada branch of the Relief Society. Spoke
of the storing of grain and taking care of it,
some of the brethren did not see the necessity
of it, and it was very discouraging; felt we
were engaged in a great work, that the living
had the privilege of working for the dead.
	Mrs. Mary Jane Hendricks, Counselor in the
R. S. Oneida Stake, said they visited the settle-
ments and tried to encourage and help along
the several branches, spoke highly of the
President and bore a good testimony.
	Mrs. Ellen W. Lunt Pres. of R. S. Paro-
wan Stake represented in a very able manner
the situation in the few branches in that Stake;
felt happy in performing her duties, they had
good Presidents and an efficient corps of
teachers. In Cedar City they had made a
commencement in the silk-culture, and they
were much interested in the storing of grain.
Testified that the hand of the Lord had been
over her from childhood.
	Pres. Z. D. H. Young addressed the as-
sembly, spoke at some length upon cheerful-
ness, "it is through trials we gain the blessing
and when we are cheerful our trials are only
half as hard to bear; there is a sermon in the two
words, 'God rules.' President Brigham Young
had made  the remark if he had another
family to raise he would have his wives and

[Column 3]

children pay their own tithing, it would be
giving practical lessons upon the principle,"
urged mothers to teach their children these
things early in life. The speaker then gave
some special instruction to the Relief Society
applicable in all its branches in the several
Stakes of Zion and specially denounced raffl-
ing under all circumstances; gave some ex-
cellent suggestions in regard to nursing the
sick. The President spoke upon the im-
portant position the teachers occupy, and that
their labors were such as required the prompt-
ings of the Holy Spirit, said there need be no
President over the teachers except the Presi-
dent of the Society. Exhorted mothers to be
like angels in the household—to bring love to
all, and kindness; we should love each other
and our God; the world drives us to love each
other, we are shut out from them; more than
a thousand wives and mothers, whose husbands
cannot associate with them on account of the
enforcement of the special laws made for us.
It used to be said that those who sub-
dued the earth and caused the grass to grow
on desert land were philanthropists, but this
people do these things and yet are condemned.
Alluded to the report which was read in the
morning, and spoke of the little nucleus out of
which this magnificent result had grown; re-
ferred to keeping the Sabbath day holy; spoke
encouragingly to those that had come long dis-
tances, and alluded to the example of the
Savior and his appearing to Mary and Martha
after his resurrection, prayed for the blessing
of the Lord upon all, that we might work to-
gether in joy and peace and success crown our
labors.
	Mrs. L. M. Hart Counselor in R. S. Bear
Lake Stake, reported the sisters there alive to
their duties, and doing all the good possible,
there is a minority not diligent but the ma-
jority are. "There are 16 branches in the Stake
including Soda Springs, Pres. Lindsey is un-
tiring in her labors. Pres. Budge gives the
sisters much encouragement. We are seldom
visited by the sisters from Salt Lake City;
though we have Sister Horne occasionally
and we appreciate it." Bore a strong testimony
and knew all would be well with those who
perform their duties faithfully.
	Mrs. Annie W. Larson Pres. of R. S. Emery
Stake, said she tried to go round the Stake
regularly, they tried to sustain the poor and
help the missionaries; they were not a wealthy
people but were willing to divide; it was not a
grain country, yet the sisters had laid up some,
she knew this was the kingdom of God; they
had received good counsel from brethren and
sisters who had visited them.
	Mrs. Susan Grant, Pres. of Davis Stake
spoke highly of the Presidents and sisters in that
locality; said the President of the Stake and
his Counselors met with them in the Conferences
and gave them good counsel and instruction,
urged the mothers to teach their children the
principle of tithing and also to instil faith
into their young and tender minds; thought
much responsibility rested upon the mothers.
	Mrs. Ann Tate Cor. Sec'y., of R. S. Tooele
Stake gave a good report of the labors of the
sisters in that vicinity and added some farther
remarks testifying of the work in which we
are engaged.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Counselor to the
President Mrs. Young, realized that the meet-
ing had been a long one and yet there were a
few items to be touched upon, hoped we should
all think over what had been said about
cheerfulness and not only receive it but re-
member it, and do all things with a cheerful
heart; let us all try and live here so we can
have a few friends to welcome us on the other
side, if she failed in that she would want to 
come back. "We had a big report read here
 to-day of the condition of the Relief Society,
and there is a great work being accomplished,


We are all trying to assist in it. I have heard
here to-day in the reports from some of the
Presidents that they only hold Conferences
semi annually; President Young organized the
Weber Stake Relief Society just shortly before
his death and appointed Quarterly Conferences;
soon afterwards he went to Brigham City and
Mr. Richards and I went with him, he insisted
on my going, said he had many things he
wanted to talk to me about, and in his con-
versation he always said Quarterly Confer-
ences, and my mind is that we keep up the
Conferences Quarterly, we need these meetings
for our spiritual benefit; and I must say I feel
bad when the sisters don't take care of their
wheat, it is a duty laid upon us to store grain,"
and Pres. Taylor made the remark to me that
he would not dare to use the wheat nor do
anything with it, Pres. Woodruff had used the
same expression when spoken to concerning it.
The speaker then referred to the Primary As-
sociation, and said "that is one of the best in-
stitutions we have, and we Relief Society
folks are grandmothers to the Primaries, if we
are not mothers to the Young Ladies, we
should do all in our power to help the Primary
and encourage those who have charge of them
and labor so diligently. Sisters we need to 
take more care of our health, don't work all
the time; some say they have two meetings a
month and one of them a working meeting;
now sisters we must not over work, go and visit
the Primary and the Young Ladies' mettings,
it is a great labor spiritually and may the
Spirit of the Lord help us to perform all our
duties, and live uprightly that we may minister
to the needy and comfort and encourage those
who are weak and bowed down with sorrow,
a kind word is always good for all, may we
profit by the good things we have heard and 
be able to overcome, is my prayer."
	Mrs. M. I. Horne Pres. R. S. Salt Lake
Stake, reported briefly, she had visited nearly
all the branches in this Stake during the last
few months; spoke of the Young Ladies' Asso-
ciations and the Primaries and the good work
being done in these organizations; said the
last Primary Conference in this hall was the
largest that had ever assembled here; thought
that the spiritual and temporal blessings could
not be separated, they went together, even in
building Temples and officiating therein.
	The congregation sang two verses of the
hymn,

	"The spirit of God like a fire is burning"

	The Cor. Sec'y., then read the written reports
received from the following Stakes, Bannock,
Cassia, Maricopa, Snowflake, St. Joseph's, San
Luis, St. George, Kanab, Beaver, and Sevier.
Mrs. Young and Mrs. Kimball each made
brief remarks. The congregation rose and
sung the Doxology and the benediction was
pronounced by Mrs. M. A. Hyde, the Confer-
ence adjourned for six months.
		E. B. W. Cor. Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S MIND EQUAL TO MAN'S.

	America has been richly blessed in its women
of patriotism, intelligence, usefulness, and
moral worth. It has been a marvel to many
in the Old World that the women of the New
World have been, in so many instances, so
thoroughly cultured, so admirably developed,
morally and intellectually, when they have
lived amid so much that was new and crude
in society.
	A cultured Christian lady, living in her
beautiful Scottish home, once wrote, "It seems
to me that by the freedom of America I was
lifted up to a higher and a diviner life and a
tender and reverent expectation of glorious
possibilities for our race and especially that
of woman."

[Column 2]

	The record of the noble lives of women in
our broad land during the century of American
Independence will prove that though society
may have been imperfect in many respects,
yet, propriety and growth consists ever with a
righteous freedom, a true liberty, which is
under holy law.
	Others may write or speak eloquently of
patriots, inventors, warriors, and other public
men but we should be abundantly satisfied if
we may so present the truth about American
women as to prove that the nation is indebted
for its growth and prosperity as a people and
for its proud position among the nations of
the earth to its women as well as to its men.
	But ere we proceed further let us learn
what woman is, "Every woman is a daughter
of Almighty God as every man is His son.
Each was created in the divine image and
for each the path of duty and destiny is the same.
As the sky bends over both, so around His sons
and His daughters, alike the Almighty places
the arm of His protecting love. He has given
them varied labors but the same capacities
for intellectual social, and moral advancement.
He has given to neither power over the other,
man was not made subject to woman nor
should woman be subject to man. Neither
man's rights nor woman's rights should be
considered, but human rights—the rights of 
each, the rights of all."
	Men and women rise or fall together.
History clearly shows that no nation can en-
slave its women but it insures its own barbarism.
In proportion as society advances in culture,
women are freed from an unholy tyranny,
and, in that righteous freedom, are able to do
much for the world's advancement. Every
civilized nation owes much to its women. The
progress of every nation is marked by the ad-
vancment of its women.
	We cannot forget that woman has had for
ages, to advance with man along the path of
savagery and struggle up with him, to the
present era of Christianity. And as we glance
along the pathway of vanished centuries, we
cannot fail to see that every step of human
progress, from brutal savagism to this exalted
state of civilization, the result of mental and
moral culture, which is enjoyed in Europe
and America, has been accompanied by the
loosening of the chains of selfishness and the
thraldom in which too often the soul is held by
animal propensities, and thus woman has ad-
vanced to a loftier position and to a happier
sphere.
	There are but few who will not allow that
feminine characteristics are of a finer nature
than those that are purely masculine; at least
the naturally kind disposition of the woman's
heart has been contrasted to that of the man's
sometimes, with seeming justice, to the dis
paragement of the latter.
	We find a fitting illustration of this in the
conduct displayed by women on the occasion
of the great tragedy of Calvary. "Men alone
clamored for the blood of Jesus. No woman's
voice, thank God was heard among the clamor.
A man betrayed him and for a very gross,
material consideration. A man condemned
him to death; the man's wife, in greater pity,
begged that his life might be spared. Men
heartlessly deserted him in the hour of his
trial. Of his chosen friends and disciples, the
men, in a cowardly manner, ran away and
left him in the hands of his destroyer.
Woman followed him shedding tears of sym-
pathy and pity. Woman alone pressed her
way to the very foot of the cross, and there
poured out her prayers and tears in behalf of
the world's dying martyr. Woman embalmed
his precious body. Woman first greeted him
when he burst the bonds of death and triumphed
over the grave.

	"Not she with traitorous lips the Master stung:
	Not she denied him with a liar's tongue;

[Column 3]

	She when Apostles fled, had power to brave,
		Last at the cross, and earliest at the grave."

	'Twas woman who was first commissioned to
go and proclaim the glad tidings of his resu-
rection, And woman to day stands among the
foremost in her Master's work—a true
disciple and among the purest representatives of
His divine life the world affords.
	One great writer says, "In proportion as
woman is elevated and promoted will the
divine will of Jesus prevail; and in the ratio
that that prevails will women be lifted out of
her subject state." He goes on to picture the
future of the world when the woman of coming
centuries shall do fully the work God has given
them to do. "I have no doubt," said he, "but
am fully persuaded, that emancipated, en-
lightened, and enfranchised, she will be equal
to the demand. Commissioned by the Great
Father and clothed in the armor of affection,
she will go forth to conquer the world with 
the sword of the spirit. The shining hosts of
heaven will enlist under her banner of love
and Christ himself will lead the way. The
whole world will surrender to her divine com-
mand, and before her triumphant march the
powers of darkness flee. Prisons will be
transformed into schools, and saloons and
brothels be turned into markets and homes of
purity. Inebriates will shake off the demon
spell that enslaves them, and stand erect in
their manhood. Oppression's yoke will be
broken, and the clanking chains of the captive
be heard in the land no more forever. Navies
will be turned into ships of commerce, and
the implements of death be beaten into the
the implements of life."
	Tracing the path of Scripture record we find
the women of Israel often the chosen instru-
ments of God to teach and exhort His people.
Deborah was given the sweet and tender title
of "Mother in Israel." So beautiful in char-
acter, so noble in life, her genius was superior
to any recorded in the history of the Hebrews,
and she alone has escaped unreproved by
prophets and historians. Others might be
mentioned such as Queen Esther, Naomi, and
Ruth but time will not permit us to dwell longer
on this subject.
	Next let us take the annals of profane
history. Go back in imagination to ancient
Greece and Rome. There we find the beauti-
ful Lucretia and the excellent Cornelia com-
mended to all the world. Indeed, Cicero said,
"Had Cornelia not been a woman she would
have deserved the first place among philoso-
phers." Had she not been a Woman! 'Tis
ever thus. Woman is not permitted or allowed
her rights simply because she bears the noble
name of woman.
	Again let us not forget to mention the noble
women of Sparta. Heroines every one of them.
The Spartan soldiers, were exceptionally brave
because they had such heroic mothers. A
Spartan son who was about to depart for the
battle field, was handed his sword by his
mother with the words "Return it as a conquor
or a corpse." Thus proving that she prefered
death to cowardice.
	Take for instance the life of the Empress
Josephine of France. Had Napoleon taken
her advice he never would have lost the famous
battle of Waterloo or have been banished a
prisoner to St. Helena. Her mind far sur-
passed his. Still speaking of the heroic women
of France let us briefly review the wonderful
act of Charlotte Corday who stabbed the enemy
of her country to the heart and then suffered
death on the scaffold. Even after her head
had been severed from her body and one of
the executioners made an insulting action by
holding it up and slapping the pure cheek, the
beautiful eyes of Charlotte opened, 'tis stated,
and cast a look of indignation on the brute, thus
proving (should the statement be true, and
'tis made on good authority) that consciousness


[Column 1]

﻿had survived even the separation of the head
from the body. What mind can we find that
was greater than hers? What man has ever
performed a more courageous act than Charlotte
Corday?
	England with its marvelous historic and
classic treasures owes much to its women.
We will mention but two to day. First, the
good queen Victoria. She who has ruled for
over half a century and has had a more peace-
ful reign than any preceding monarch. She
has shown more wisdom and intelligence in
governing her people than any man who ever
held the sceptre. History also tells us that
England owes much of its present prosperity
to Queen Elizabeth, whose mind was equal if
not superior to any of the English rulers
	Spain next presents itself to our view. Of
course, we at once think of Isabella. Yes; and
had it not been for this excellent woman,
Columbus might never have discovered
America. He had asked assistance at almost
every court in the land but had been refused
by all of them. Almost ready to give up in
despair, he went to Isabella who possessing a
rarer and more intelligent mind. stepped for-
ward and extended a helping hand to the
great man to whom we owe so much.
	But it is reserved for America to show to
the world the rarest excellence of woman in
the exercise of the largest and truest liberty
the world has ever known.
	Those brave old pioneer women, Widow
Storey for instance. "After her husband had
been killed, she undertook the task of clearing
a farm on which she might rear and support
her ten fatherless children." And this bold
resolution she carried out to the letter, in
spite of every difficulty, hardship, and danger
which for years constantly beset her in her
solitary location in the woods. Acre after
acre of the dense and dark forest melted away
before the axe, which she handled with the
dexterity of the most experienced chopper."
She used the rifle, with unerring aim, and
supported her hardy brood of children, pro-
tecting them from the Indians and wild beasts
of the New England forest.
	It is said that when the Pilgrims first landed
at Plymouth Rock a beautiful young maiden,
May Chilton, was the first to step on the snow-
clad rocks of the New World. 'Twas in the
"Mayflower" that 18 faithful wives sailed from
their own beautiful homes to the one inhabited
only by the wily and vengeful savage." On the
unfloored hut, she who had been nurtured amid
the rich carpets and curtains of the mother-
land rocked her babe and complained not.
Pounded the coarse Indian corn for her child-
ren's bread, and bade them ask God's blessing
ere they took their scanty portions. When
the snows sifted throughhe miserable roofs
and fell upon her little ones, she gathered them
closer to her bosom; taught them the Bible
and the Holy Hymns, though the whoop of
the savage rang through the forest. She in-
fused new life into her husband by her firm-
ness and solaced his weary hours with her
love.
	While the Nation honors the Pilgrim
Fathers let it not fail to give due reverence to
the memory of the Pilgrim Mothers. May the
pages of history blaze with the glory of their
spotless fame.
	Who has not heard of Hannah Duston?
When she and her babe were taken captive by
the Indians and marched away from her
friends and family, her heart agonized by her
approaching fate, yet she was brave and de-
termined and planned her escape. She watched
until the Indian braves had fallen asleap,
then, with her nurse, she stole with her toma-
hawk and striking vigorously and fleetly' soon
10 out of the 12 sleeping braves lay dead
before her and another mortally wounded.
Then taking the scalps as trophies of her

[Column 2]

victory, she decended the river in a bark canoe
to the English settlements. Her daring deed
has filled all the world with wonder and ad-
miration. Let me only ask "What man has
ever performed a more heroic act the that of
Hannah Duston?
	We must not forget the mother of our
great president George Washington. 'Twas
she who trained her son in noble simplicity
and was best pleased when she saw him good
rather than great. A famous European,
after gazing on her for a few moments said;
"If such are the women of America it is no
wonder the sons are so illustrious." Her
handsome monument bears only the simple
words, "Mary the mother of Washington."
	Now let us briefly present the women of the
Revolution. Elizabeth Martin, who with the
spirit of a Spartan said to her seven brave sons
who were about to depart for the battle-field.
"Go my brave sons. Fight for your country.
Fight till death if you must, but never let
your country be dishonored. Were I a man
I would go with you."
	Anna Warner, Grace Martin and Major
Molly who, when her husband was killed took
his place at the cannon and remained until the
loud hurrahs of freedom burst on the air. The
poet has truly said.

	"Proud were they by such to stand,
	In hammock, fort, and glen; 
	To load the sure old rifle,  
	To run the leaden ball,
	To watch a battling husbands's place,
	And fill it, should he fall"

Hundreds of names of illustrious women could
be mentioned who fought for our freedom
and whose bravery and valor entitle them to
honorable remembrance. Their names should
stand side by side with those who signed the
Declaration of Independence, and pledged to
the cause of liberty, "their lives their fortunes
and their sacred honor."
	Who can deny that the wives of the presi-
dents have done more for intellectual and
moral advancment than the presidents them-
selves. The wives of our greatest senators and
presidents have made their husbands what
they are. Women have ever been the leaders
of society and on them depends what our social
position is.
	The women in the Civil War were a noble
band. Many heroic deeds were done and many
lives sacrificed for the government of liberty
and law.

"Whispered low the dying soldier pressed her hand and
	faintly smiled;
Was that pitying face his mother’s? did she watch beside
	her child?
All his stranger words with meaning her woman’s heart
	supplied,
With her kiss upon his forhead "Mother" murmured he
	and died,"

	Women as "philanthropists have surpassed
men. An instance is related of Dorothea L.
Dix who was called "the prisoner's friend." On
one occasion this lady was cautioned not to ap-
proach a raving maniac. He yelled fright-
fully day and night and was so violent that it
was supposed he would murder any one who
ventured within his reach. She approached
with the Bible and read in a low, sweet tone to
him,—he paused, his shouts gradually subsided
and when she ceased he uttered, "Read me
some more, it does me good, Lady, God sent
you." Some one making a slight noise attracted
his attention, and he exclaimed "Hush! hush!
there are angels with us." What mind of man
has ever had more power over the insane than
the one posessed by this gentle woman.
	The literary women have been equal and
many have surpassed men. Her works have
been written with a more attractive inspired
pen. No poems can surpass those of our own
great Eliza R. Snow Smith. We might

[Column 3]

mention scores of them if time would
permit.
	As lecturers, reformers, preachers, educators,
physicians, readers, actors and singers, as
printers, lawyers, inventors, journalists, in fact
in every vocation of life woman's mind has
equalled man's.

"Read the fresh annals of our land the gathering dust of
	time
Nor yet has fallen on the scroll to dim the tale sublime;
There woman's glory proudly shines, for willingly she gave
Her costliest jewels to uphold the generous and the brave,
Who fought her country's battle well and oft she periled
	life
To save a brother, father, friend, in thise dark years of
	strife,
Whatever strong-armed man hath wrought; whatever he
	hath won,
That goal hath woman also reached, that action she hath
	done."
		ELLA F. SMITH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TICKETS
﻿ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH 
---AT---
UNION TICKET OFFICE
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
	 J. V. PARKER,
		Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.
R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st SouthSt.,
SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found th[-] latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS,  GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

