VOL. 18		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY	 15, 1889.		No. 4.


CONTENTS.
	Good Company—E. M. Stevens. Hephzibah—
A Story. Westminster Abbey—Selected. Pleas-
ant Grove. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL: Time of Changes. Editorial Notes.
On the Wing—S. M.  Kimball. A Gentile’s
Opinion—W. R. Foreign Correspondence—C.
U. Locander. Maternal Influence—W. R. Nel-
son. The Hope Within Us—S.P. Summit Co.
W. S.A.—M. Brown.
	Address to W.S. A. at Ogden. R..S. Re-
ports—Box Elder. Reorganization. Woman—
Selected. Our Baby Girl—E. C. F.
	POETRY: Memory of The Sea—E. B. W.
The First Grandchild—Selected. Shall Never
Come, Message or Token—L. M. Hewlings.
Our Mother—R. M. Fox.


MEMORY OF THE SEA. 

In the midnight hour, a memory 
	Swept like music o'er my soul 
As I stood in silent reverie, 
	Where the surging billows roll;—
Minor music, sad and sorrowing, 
	Full of trembling, full of tears;  
Ever like the ocean's murmuring, 
	Bringing back the tide of years.  
Telling of the long forgotten 
	In the cycles of the past, 
Of the nations crushed and broken 
	In the world's great holocaust, 

As I listened so entrancing 
	Was the music of the sea; 
That I fancied mermaids dancing 
	To the midnight minstrelsy.
And a thousand harpstrings quivering, 
	Sobbing in the midnight sea; 
And my broken heart-strings shivering 
	As sad memories came to me. 
Had I caught the inspiration 
	Of the music deep and strong 
That had moved my soul's wild passion 
	Was it but a syren’s song? 
O, such music, weird and mournful, 
	As the night-wind swept along, 
And the shattered notes so painful, 
	Making discord in the song.  

How far off the dreamy vision 
	That these memories brought to me, 
As I strained my ear to listen 
	To the murmuring in the sea. 
Far down where the sea weeds whisper 
	To the corals and the shells; 
But they keep the secret ever, 
	Roar or echo never tells. 
But the human heart's emotion, 
	Answers to the sad refrain, 
And the ceaseless moan of ocean, 
	Brings a grandeur fraught with pain. 

While the wild waves in commotion, 
	Sweeping out unto the shore; 
Bounding billows, restless ocean, 
	Echoing forevermore. 
And the ever constant beating 
	'Gainst the rocks that hemm'd the sea, 
Where the winds in fury meeting. 
	Dashed them backward ruthlessly. 
So our human hopes are driven, 
	Recklessly tossed to and fro, 
And our strongest ties are riven—
	Rent asunder by a blow. 
Ever heaves the restless ocean, 
	With its hidden mystery,
Sleeping' in its surging bosom,  
	Until time shall cease to he. 
							E. B. W.


GOOD COMPANY.

	It is very necessary for us to keep good
company, if we wish to bear a good name. For 
we are generally judged by the company we
keep.  The happiness of our lives depends to a
great extent upon our training in that direc-
tion.  We should seek the society of our
superiors, and set a good example before our
younger brothers and sisters, and all with whom
we may associate.  Habits of this kind once
formed will cling to a boy or girl through life,
and are of great value to them.  Example must
go hand in hand with precept.  If a person
once falls into bad company and becomes wild
and reckless, he is very apt to lose the spirit
of the Gospel and go down to destruction. On
the contrary if we seek good society, we will
grow up to be good men and women.  It is by
what we ourselves have done (and not what
others have done for us) that we shall be remem-
bered in after ages.  It requires a constant
watch, and a prayerful heart, on our part to
enable us to keep the right spirit at all times,
for the evil one is always on the alert.  If we
allow ourselves to fall into bad company we will
soon be found drifting in to their ways. There
are many reasons why we should keep good
company, parents may be called away from us
and leave our little brothers and sisters who
must be cared for, how nice it would be to have
an elder brother or sister who would set an ex-
ample that would be worthy of their imitation
and teach them to be orderly and industrious,
in this way they would soon be a great help and
grow up to be self-sustaining.  How much
better this would be than to set examples be-
fore them that would bring them down to shame
and remorse. There are other reasons why we
should keep good company, it is more economi-
cal, if we fall into bad habits we will be apt to
spend more than we make. We should avoid
the fashions and follies of the world, excessive
dress, the use of tea, coffee, tobacco and liquor
are wasteful as well as injurious to the sys-
tem; rather let us use a part of our means in
paying tithing, building temples, etc. We
should not use bad language or slang phrases,
more especially the young ladies, these are very
bad habits and are degrading to the human
mind.  Therefore they should not be indulged
in.  If we will read good books, be humble and
prayerful, we will be built up and strengthened
by so doing, and we will not be very apt to fall
into bad company.  There is an invisible pen
always writing over our heads, making an
exact register of all the transactions of our
lives, not our public conduct only, but the in-
dulgence of our private pleasures, our secret
thoughts and idle hours shall be brought into
account.  Therefore it stands us all in hand to
be noble in word thought and deed. The
Gospel has been revealed for the express pur-
pose of giving us power to control ourselves.
The Lord has told us that if we will seek unto
Him He will aid us to conquer every evil in-
clination and wrong desire.  If we will pursue
this course we will find that our path through
life will be much happier, and we will have
many more friends and will secure the favor of
the Lord.
						E. M. STEVENS.


Hope without action is a broken staff. We
should always hope for things that are possible
and probable.—James Ellis.


HEPHZIBAH.

					III
	She wandered fancy free, o’er hill and dale,
		Or lingered lovingly beside the brook;
	This little wood-nymph of the lowly vale,
		Culling wild flowers from ev’ry sheltered nook. 

	Mrs. H. was a woman of strong character-
istics, tall and dignified in figure, though gentle
and womanly in manner and bearing, her mind
decidedly practical in the full sense of the
term, she proved equal to the emergency that
had overtaken her so unexpectedly. She took
into consideration just what was necessary to
be done to economize and live within her
means, and lost no time in carrying her plans
into execution. Her close attention to the
business of her husband, for the purpose of
helping him, had given her an experience that
but few women in that that day had the opportunity
of acquiring. From the time of her husband's 
death she was so engrossed with cares and re-
sponsibilities that the younger children were
left to themselves, and Hephzibah had ample
opportunity to pursue her idle ways, or only
to visit the old home and wait on grandpa to
hat and cane, and enjoy the freedom of the
orchard, garden, meadows and woods she loved
so well. She was far enough advanced in her
studies to read everything that came in her way
and was passionately fond of books, and stories,
she really believed in fairies and elves and
wondered why she could not be visited by them.
	Her grandpa gave her the most perfect liberty
to rummage over the musty old letters and
manuscript stowed away as useless in the
garret. Tied up in bundles carefully, though
faded soiled and covered in dust, were the writ-
ings and correspondence of her grandmother
for whom she was named, and she would feast
upon these with childish delight, gleaning hero
and there, out of the way and romantic ideas
that accorded with her own peculiar notions.
The neighbors looked on in utter amazement
and wondered what would become of this pre-
cocious child, who was subject to no control,
and who had withal such seemingly exalted
notions, that it totally unfitted her for the com-
panionship of children of her own age. Mrs.
H. would sometimes say to the old Major,
“What shall we do with Hephzibah, she holds
herself so above our country ways?” “Strange
child very, not at all like other children, time
will develop her more fully, she will make her
way in the world;” but he stubbornly refused
to make the sacrifice of her company, or listen
to any plan suggested to induce her to conform
to the usual manner, or condition of little girls.
“I cannot part with her,” he would repeat
over and over.” In spite of her oddity and
her quaint notions she was more sought after
than any of all the village children. She
could repeat more verses and tell more wonder-
ful stories, and knew where all the bird’s nests
were, and when they were ready to fly, and
she never tired of talking in her own way, to
old and young, and with all her lack of con-
formity to other peoples’ ways she was a general
favorite in the village. Even her mother be-
came convinced at last that Hephzibah was of
a different temperament and organization, and
unlike the rest of the family and said to her
older daughters who were solicitious about
the child, “She cannot conform to our habits
of discipline, she must not be forced to submit;


grandpa would say "she is like her grand-
mother's family, she has the Hastings blood
in her veins, we shall see what the future will
unfold." What a puzzle the child was to them
all!
	“What can Hephzibah do with all these
fine aristocratic notions without money," said
her rich uncle to the mother on one occasion
when paying his regular visit to the homestead
he found her installed there as though she
were actually the mistress of ceremonies, posi-
tively  receiving her uncle on his arrival with
the air of a little Duchess bred and born.
He undertook to remonstrate with his father,
telling him how absurd it was to have "that
child assuming so much authority, where she
had no right;" but all to no purpose, the old
man's affection for her was almost an adoration.
So the selfish uncle appealed to the mother, he
knew her to be wise and discriminating and he
carefully inquired what course she intended to
take in regard to Hephzibah's future. "She
cannot go on long in the way she is doing now,"
he said, "for she will soon be developing into
womanhood and you have too many boys and
girls to give her any special advantages; by
and bye you will not be able to control her
at all, if indeed you are now, which appears
doubtful, and the child is far too delicate and
sensitive as well as too proud to push her own
way in the world. You are certainly doing
her a great injustice; she must go away from
here to school, where she will be properly con-
trolled. Once gone from his sight, father will
forget all about it, just like a child, and she
will familiarize herself with other scenes, and
it will change everything for the better." 
	The uncle seemed to think his sister-in-law
coincided with his views, and acquiesced in the
scheme of sending Hephzibah away, but she
did not, far from it—nor did she intend to fol-
low his advice in the least, and when he had
gone she soliloquized thus: "It would never
do to send the child away, while her grandpa
lives, it would break her heart, and the old
gentleman would refuse to be comforted and 
mourn himself to death. She must remain un-
til time brings some change about."
	Friends of the family one after another 
came to offer advice, until Mrs. H. grew weary
of their solicitations, and her replies were such
as to convince them, she knew best herself what
to do with her own, and though some of the
presistent ones felt self-condemned, yet they
tried to make amends for seeming interference,
by praising the child's ability and would say
"we are all interested in her future for we can
see she has more than ordinary talent and it
should be developed in other ways, than hid-
ing herself away in nooks and corners and talk-
to the brooks and birds and trees." 
	Mrs. H. was perfectly well aware of the
situation of affairs, and anxious to have her
little daughter receive an education in the best
schools, and she knew, better than any one
else could, as mothers almost invariably do,
that Hephzibah could not submit to be sent
away from grandpa among strangers, and at
the same time conform to the rigid discipline
of the school-room. She loved her little girl 
with all the warmth of her generous motherly
heart, and her interest in the child grew more
intense still, when she learned how others felt
concerning the child's future, and that she was
such a general favorite in the village. How-
ever she would not yield in the least, and pur-
sued the even tenor of her way, regardless
alike of their admiration of the child, or advice
concerning her welfare. And what of Hephzi-
bah? she was totally unaware of it all, and
still indulged her childish peculiarities; she
never played as other children did, or much
with them at all, though she had likes and dis-
likes, strong ones too, among her playmates as
well as older people; the boys of her own age
were rather fond of annoying and frightening her
[column 2]
when they found her alone in the fields, but
even the mischievous boys held her somehow
in a sort of adoration, and would bring her
the earliest wild-violets and longest-stemmed
water-lilies she loved so well, and thus even the
most bashful ones manifested their boyish
appreciation of her love of the beautiful in 
nature.
	Descended from the staunch old Puritan
stock, with all their severity of character, it
seemed strange that without any predilection
on the part of her parents, she should possess
such enthusiasm on subjects so foreign to the 
habits and customs, as well as the disposition
of the people with whom she associated and
among whom she dwelt. But with all her
weird fancies and rose-colored aspirations, she
had inherited from the Pilgrim fore-fathers and
fore-mothers those traits and attributes, that
must ever lie at the foundation of whatever is
lofty in motive or purpose; honesty, integrity and
a conscientiousness in all her thoughts and
feelings, that gave a moral tone and balance to
the ideal and spiritualistic and kept her within
the bounds of reason even when as she grew
in years, impulse uncontrolled would have led
her into a labyrinth of difficulties.
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		﻿WESTMINSTER ABBEY.
		BY J. C. KITTREDGE.
		THE CORONATION CHAIRS.
	These are choice and ancient relics. In that
battered chair, the larger of the two, have
been crowned most of England’s sovereigns.
The famous seat was made for Edward I, by
Edward the Painter. It is made of wood, with
four lions carved at the base, and is decidedly
disfigured, giving evidence of hard usage.
Names and figures are rudely cut upon it. It
would seem that insignificant people in earlier
times had the same propensity to seek immor-
tality in that manner as at present. When
used at coronations ornamental covers are
thrown over it. The only time it was ever re-
moved from its present position was when
Cromwell was installed lord protector, in West-
minster hall, thus making the installation of
that great man as prominent and distinguished
as his career. Shakespeare refers to the chair
in Henry VI. It is where Eleanor says to her
husband Humphrey: “Methinks I sate in seat
of majesty, in the cathedral church of West-
minster, and in that chair where kings and
queens are crowned.” Queen Victoria sat in
the same chair at her coronation. The corona-
tions take place in the center of the chancel.
Beneath the chair, is the Stone of Scone, an
object of no less curiosity than the chair itself.
It is not a stone of large dimensions; and was
used in ancient times at the coronation of the
Scottish kings.  The stone has had distin-
guished and various fortunes; there are many
facts and legends connected with its history.
Legend says that the stone was Jacob’s pillow
at Bethel, and carried from thence to Egypt.
Gathelus, the Greek,  came to Egypt and
married Scotia, and it is presumed that he had
something to do with the stone. He subse-
quently fled to Spain. Many years afterward,
as Brek was fishing off Iceland, he pulled it up,
and it was then placed upon the sacred hill of
Taroh. In 330 B.C. Fergus bore the stone to
Dunstaffnage castle, near Oban. Later he
carried it to Iona. In the year 840 A. D.
Kenneth II brought the stone to Scone, near
Perth. All the Scottish kings were crowned
on it, until the time of Baloil. Edward I after
defeating Baloil in 1296, was himself crowned
on it. He had it taken to London, and placed
beneath the coronation chair, as we see it. The
[Column 2]
Scotch were naturally much offended at their
loss of the stone, and later it caused quite a
dispute between Edward III and David II.
The former consented to give up the stone, but
the people of London clamored so loudly about
it that he could return only the regalia. In a
recent book about Scone, published at Perth, is
the following:
	“There is a story told of one of the villagers,
still alive, who went to London on some busi-
ness, which being finished, he resolved on see-
ing some of the sights of the city. Among
other places visited was Westminster Abbey,
where was pointed out to him the stone of
destiny or coronation chair. After standing in
deep meditation for about a minute he accosted
an Englishman standing close by, rather
abruptly with, ‘Ye’ve nae richt tae that stane!’
	“'What do you mean, Sir?’ replied the as-
tonished Englishman.
	“ 'I mean what I say, an’ that’s ye’ve nae
richt tae that stane, because it wis stolen frae
my native toon,' thundered forth our friend.
	“‘My dear Sir, I cannot comprehend,' re-
plied the still more astonished Englishman.
	“‘Weel, Sir, if ye dinna ken, I’ll tell ye.
Ane o’ your thievish kings, Edward, took that
stane awa frae Scoon, an’ ye’ve never ha’en as
muckle honesty about ye as tae return it.’ ”
	He turned on his heel, and walked off, leav-
ing his friend to solve the problem as best he
could.
	It is interesting to trace the various migra-
tions of the famous stone, not to mention the
apocryphal part of the story of its coming from
Dunstaffnage castle, near Oban (a fine ruin
which we have seen and elsewhere described),
to the time when the Scots were defeated by
the Picts, who took it to Scone, near Perth.
There it remained until removed to West-
minster abbey by Edward III. Thus we see
the famous stone to have been an epitome of
the momentous events which moved the affairs
of history; fittingly expressing the conquest
and unity of Scotland with England. The
other chair, which is of far later date, is occu-
pied by the consorts. It was made at the time
of Mary II.
	On the platform behind the chairs, are the
shield and sword of Edward III, carried be-
fore him in France; the latter is seven feet in
length. Other monuments within the chapel,
not previously referred to, are those of Almer
de Valence, Earl Pembroke, Aveline, Countess
of Lancaster, Edmund Crouchback, Earl of
Lancaster, son of Henry III.
		SHRINE OF SAINT ERASMUS.
	This is perhaps the most picturesque section
of the abbey. It dates from the time of
Richard II.
		         [To be continued.]


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Florence Nightingale has written a letter to
the Johnstown sufferers.
	“Universal Suffrage,” said Charles Sumer,
“is the first proof and only basis of a genuine
republic.”
	The woman suffragists have scored a victory
in the Washington Convention in the election
of Judge Hoyt president, and Dr. John R.
Thompson, chaplain.
	The daughter of the Chief Justice of the
United States is to enter a law office and study
for the legal profession. She has just gradu-
ated from college.
	Mrs. Oliphant, the novelist, is sixty-three
years old and a hard worker, with no desire for
newspaper fame. She lives with her two
children near Windsor castle.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE FIRST GRANDCHILD.

"Grandmother,” called the father, and there came
Out from the vine wreathed porch a blushing dame,
Surprised and eager at the strange new name.

The clock within rang forth the chime for eight,
“A message? Read it—quick—how can you wait?"
Her husband, smiling, leaned upon the gate.

At arm’s length holding in his trembling hand
The crisp, white sheet, while he the writing scanned,
Then read once more with voice almost unmanned.

" 'Thy grand-daughter salutes thee,’ ‘Baby Bell,’
"Mother and child, thank God, are doing well.''
A moment’s silence on the proud twain fell.

She broke it soon, "Grandfather, I congrat—”
''What, me?’ the good man cried, lifting his hat,—
"‘Grandfather’—me? I hadn’t thought of that.''
						—Harper's Weekly,


[For the EXPONENT.]
“SHALL NEVER  COME MESSAGE OR
				TOKEN."

	Shall never come message or token,
		Ne'er a sound to break silence dread—
	Nor one tender word breathed or spoken,
		Assuring that love is not dead?

	Towards the far away snow-capped mountains
		And over its shadowly vale,
	Goes forth the sad cry, but the echo
		Weird, mournful, returns on the gale.

	I wait in the gloaming of eve’ing,
		Her bright banners fade into hlue.
	I question, can love that was golden
		Fade and die from heart leal and true?

	Ah! somewhere the sun must be shining,
		Somewhere, tho’ now hidden from sight,
	And tho' we see not through the darkness,
		We know that beyond there is light.

	In hope, we'll wait on thro' the gloaming,
		Tho' no voice replies as of yore;
	We know there must come a morning
		Where love reigns supreme evermore,
							L. M. HEWLINGS.


OUR MOTHER.

DEDICATED TO THE HUSBAND AND FAMILY OF MRS.
					ELIZA FOX.

Our mother has gone to her long peaceful rest, 
Angels have borne her to the home of the blest;
Loved ones will receive her where friendships are
	rife,
Our beloved one has passed from death unto life.

Then why should we mourn her? Let God's will be
	done!
The Lord has released her, the battle is won;
Oh, would we recall her earth’s pains to endure
Our mother so noble, unselfish and pure?

Recall her? O no! Her afflictions are o'er;
Our Fatber, He knows what the future’s in store;
Perhaps He has called her some trial to spare,
Mothers’s earth-work is finished, she has suffered her
	share.

God grant we may live in her footprints to tread,
That when we've completed our work ’twill be said
As we say of her, "thou hast done thy work well,
Thy glory and honor no mortal can tell.''

It seems in mind’s vision, we almost can see
Thy spirit so bouyant, so happy and free;
Thy hand in thy guide’s as he softly says “come,'' 
And opens the gates to thy beautiful home.

Our minds reach out farther, we see thee within
And Frankie, thy daughter, impatient to win
From thy lips, the news thou hast brought of her boy
The vision is closed; we leave thee with thy joy.
								R. M. Fox.


[Column 1]
PLEASANT GROVE.
	Special meeting at the meeting house May
20, 1889, President E. Brown presiding. After
singing, prayer was offered by Elder Jno. Todd.
Singing, "Now let us rejoice." President
Brown announced the presence of the visiting
sisters, viz: President Zina D. Young, also
President Mary John and Counselor Marilla
Daniels, of Utah Stake. The secretary then
read the minutes of the previous meeting.
	President John:—“There are many subjects
we could speak upon. We live in an important
time, and it requires us to be prayerful and
diligent continually, that we may escape the
great calamities that will come upon the in-
habitants of the earth. The ladies' journal,
the EXPONENT, is not supported by us as it
should be. This is a valuable paper and the
price has been reduced to $1.00 per year.
	Counselor M. Daniels:—“This is the first
opportunity I have had of meeting with the
sisters of this place. The first hymn sung es-
pecially, is full of inspiration; these old hymns
bring up happy reminiscenses of the early scenes
in this Church. Our persecutions to-day are
of a different nature to those endured by the
Saints in the rise of this Church. Let us meet
everything bravely, striving to perform our
duty with diligence, then it makes no difference
what our trials are, whether we live or die, it
will be well with us. Many of our sisters are
passing under the rod of affliction; let us help
them and extend to them the charity which is
the true love of God. Our mission is to cheer
and comfort each other, read good books and
inform our minds that we may act intelligently,
encourage the young to read the Church works
and become informed in the history of our
people.
	President Z. D. Young:—Very few faces do
I recognize—but we are all kindred spirits.
Paul says: "When I was a child I spake as a
child, I understood as a child, I thought as a
child; but when I became a man, I put away
childish things." We must become perfect
even as our Father in heaven is perfect.
Brother Joseph said: "The fulness of the
gospel includes the organization of the sisters."
You should meet together as often as twice a
month, as we are too apt to grow cold if we
only have monthly meetings. Sisters when 
you are necessitated to leave an office ask to be
honorably released. I do not like the word
"resign;" this is a retrograde word.
	The spirits of all those persons who held the
priesthood in any dispensation, are prepared
for the mission in the spirit world, then how
necessary is the proper care of our bodies, that
the progress of the spirit may not be retarded
by being placed in a weakly tabernacle. Our
mode of dress has much to do with our health,
we want to learn how to breathe, did you ever
think of that? Notice the difference in breath-
ing when we undress to retire; tight lacing is
very injurious.
	Sister Zina said many of our brethren say
that the trial of imprisonment is not so great
as what their families endure in their absence.
The finest flour is ground the hardest. If we
can acknowledge the hand of God in all
things, then He is our support. Let us exer-
cise faith to endure persecution. The Lord
will cause the wrath of man to praise Him.
The scene at Sister Taylor's grave in the ab-
sence of her husband was a sad one, though I
do not like to live in the past only as it reflects
sunshine upon the future. Sisters do encourage
the young girls to attend their meetings; 
do not puff the children up in pride, but rather
write proper thoughts upon the tablets of their
souls. Girls, do not be in too big a hurry to
leave the primary. The young ladies' associ-
ations are very important as its members are
the key to our coming nation. A certain chief

[Column 2]
caused the young men of his tribe to be highly 
educated, but the next generation had no
semblance of the education of their fathers.
The chief said he had made a grand mistake,
the mother should be educated as well, as they
are the ones who teach the children.
	President Young said many years ago
"there is silk in these elements." If we had
obeyed his counsel in regard to it we could 
have produced half a million in silk. By in-
dustry the children should learn to know the
value of a dollar. Sisters, study human na-
ture and gain the affections of your sons and
daughters, let young people be young, assist in
making amusement for them—half of our
troubles in controlling our children are caused
through ignorance. When I meet so many of
our aged sisters who have lived pure lives my
heart swells with gratitude, and thouh I
never was a Methodist, I feel like shouting
hosannah to God. I am proud of the Saints. 
	Senator Wise, in visiting the large taber-
nacle and viewing the grand organ, lifted his
hat and said, "Surely this is not the work of a
degraded people." While visiting in Provo
with an Eastern lady we called at the B. Y.
Academy, and she was surprised to see such 
advantages here in education and remarked 
upon the fine appearance of the young men.
Strangers feel the presence of the purity and
virtue shed forth among this people, now if we
live up to the Gospel truths it will bring us to
perfection. Teach our children if they are
sick to exercise faith to be healed, nurse with
mild herbs, and that not by the hand of an
enemy. If we hold our minds in proper con-
dition the truths we hear will be brought to our 
remembrance. Sisters, do not get discouraged,
President Young has said that to the real saint
there would be no greater trials than we have
already had. Let us cease speaking evil of
one another, and from all lightmindedness,
loud laughter, etc. We find the most beautiful
rules on etiquette laid down in the Doctrine
and Covenants.
	Bishop Brown said he had been highly
entertained in listening to the wise instructions
of the sisters, they, like the Elders, feel a
weakness in addressing the Saints. This is
right and proper, we should lean upon the
Lord for His Spirit to guide us. God says the
mission of woman is to bear the souls of men.
What a grand mission to bear! Teaching and
implanting in their minds the seeds of eternal
life, the influence of the mother stays with the
child through life; if these impressions are
wrong, that is likely to be the character of the
man or woman. In my mission, too, I found
the most devout Elders with unbelieving wives
unable to bring their children into the Church,
while if the mother is the believer and the
father not, the opposite is the restlt: The most
important duty of this organization is to look
after the poor and afflicted, also to elevate and
prepare the rising generation to bear off the
kingdom. The honest and upright of the
world will come to Zion to behold her beauty
and intelligence.
	President E. Brown made closing remarks:
Let us endeavor to live by the light we receive
from time to time.
	Singing—The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning. Benediction by Bishop Brown,


Socrates called beauty a short-lived tyranny;
Plato, a privilege of nature; Theophrastus, a
silent cheat; Theocritus, a delightful prejudice;
Carneades, a solitary kingdom; Domitian said
that nothing was more grateful; Aristotle af-
firmed that beauty was better than all. the let-
ters of recommendation in the world; Homer,
that ‘twas a glorious gift of nature; and Ovid,
alluding to him, calls it a favor bestowed, by
the gods.—From the Italian.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE D. WELLS,	-	Editor,
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms: 
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post  Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JULY 15,	1889.


TIME OF CHANGES.

	The condition of this people at the present time
causes every thinking person to reflect, and in-
quire why it is that such a serious change in
affairs has come to pass. Some will say it is the
effect of pride, of riches, of too great prosparity,
and a lack of keeping the commandments that have
been given; there are various opinions; one fact
is however well-known to all, that is that the
Scriptures and revelations and prophecies plainly
point to just such a condition of things as exist at
the present time. And for that very reason the
Saints should be on their guard, on the watch-
tower, so to speak, and prepared for the inevi-
table—at least the wise virgins—should not be
taken unawares but have their lamps trimmed and
burning, and not have to borrow light of a neigh-
bor who may perchance have none to lend.
	It is a day of solemnity and of prayer, for
while watching one should also pray and cultivate
and exercise faith—faith in God, and in His or-
dinances and in the priesthood He has given unto
His people; the Apostle Paul said ‘faith without
works is dead’—but the Latter-day Saints want
living faith, that which will call down the bless-
ings of heaven upon their labors also. There is a
full fountain to go to, the Lord has not withdrawn
His spirit from those who seek for it. In the
midst of Gospel light and intelligence there is no
occasion to follow after the ways of the ungodly,
or trust in the power of man.
	Many practical lessons of faith and repentance
have been taught this people in their journeyings,
wanderings, and times of severe trial, and they
assuredly know that there is an outstretched arm
ever ready to protect and defend them if they put
their trust in Him, and not in the arm of flesh.
This day we are now living in,is spoken of as the
trying time, the testing of the integrity of the
Saints, but is it not also a good time, and the very
day	
		"That Kings and Prophets waited for,
		And sought, but never found."

	The time that the Latter-day Saints have been
praying for—though perhaps few realized how
real it would be. The time when the tares would
be gathered into bundles to be burned, and only a
remnant escape the terrible ordeals. Surely it is
not a time to neglect any known duty, but seek
diligently the ways of the Lord and walk therein,
and He will bring His chosen people off victorious,
no matter who prophecies to the contrary, or seeks
to overthrow the Church of God, and waste and
destroy the substance of the saints.
	Congress may make laws to take away the
rights of men and women, and Judges and their
aids may have power to affict and distress the


people, by enforcing unrighteous measures, but
still there will be a way of escape, notwithstand-
ing all the cunning and craftiness of men. How
was it in the days of Herod the king? He sent
forth his decree, but the Lord knew more than
Herod and provided a way, and gave a timely
warning. He is the same God still, His plans
and designs will not be thwarted by Kings or Gov-
ernors or rulers, He holds them all in His, hand
therefore there is no need of fear for the work;
but each individual must look to himself and see
that He is right; and humility, obedience, faith
patience, long-suffering and charity are among the
virtues and excellences the Saints should culti-
vate.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The many friends of Sister Jane S. Richards,
first counselor to Sister Zina D.H. Young, will
be pleased to hear that she has recovered from a
lingering illness of several weeks duration, and
though not quite so strong as before, she is able
to resume her duties in the position which she
has been called to fill.

	THE fourth of July was with the firing of cannons
from the evening before until the morning, and
also otherwise, celebrated in Salt Lake City with
considerable ceremony, and a great deal of patri-
otic enthusiasm at Liberty Park, where the people
assembled after the street parade which was on
quite a magnificent scale. Flags and banners,
bands of music and a grand display of beauty, the
goddess of liberty and so on, and after the
speeches, songs, toasts and the conclusion of the
exercises in the park, there was a feast prepared
the principal feature of which was the barbacue.
So the day passed off pleasantly and in the evening
the illumination from fire-works in various parts
of the city increased and hightened the day’s en-
joyment, especially so for the children,who always
look forward to, and expect a jollification ahd a
hurrah on Independence day.

	The Annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I, A.of
the Eighth Ward, in this city, was held on Tues-
day evening, July 9th, in the ward meeting house.
The hall was handsomely fitted up for the occa-
sion, and decorated with flowers in such rich
profusion as to add grace and beauty to the enter-
tainment. But more beautiful still, were the
sparkling eyes and intelligent faces of the young
ladies who had prepared this "feast of reason
and flow of soul,” for their invited guests. The
room was well filled, and the exercises were of a
sufficiently varied character to render them at-
tractive; instrumental music, and singing added
to the enjoyment of the evening. There was a
duett by the Misses Sarah and Rebecca Mc-
Murrin, and a song by Miss Nellie Sheets. The
reading of a poem, by Mrs. M. P. Young was
one of the features of the evening, out of the
ordinary routine of such meetings, which some-
times have too much of a sameness. Mrs. Young,
the President, seemed to have the tact to preside
unassumingly. After the exercises were con-
cluded, short speeches were made by sisters Zina
D. H. Young, M. A., and Lillie Freeze, and
Elders John Nicholson, James Eardley, Jr., and
Bishop Sheets. After the adjournment, refresh-
ments, etc. were served to all. The young
ladies acquitted themselves creditably in all their
parts. Success to such live associations, may
they continue to grow in wisdom and understand-
ing, and attain the most desirable excellence.

	DURING the last year a Kindergarten school
was started in the 18th, Ward just inside the
Eagle Gate in the building known as Brigham
Young’s school house. Mrs. M. E. Randall a
teacher of many years standing in the community,
and Miss Lizzie Taylor were the teachers. Miss
[Column 2]
Taylor prepared herself for Kindergarten work by
taking a regular course of training under Mrs.
Marcus E. Jones a professional teacher. Miss
Taylor also taught one term with Mrs. Jones in
order to become thoroughly proficient. The
school commenced Oct., 22nd, 1888, and closed
in June of the present year. This year Miss
Taylor will undertake the entire responsibility
herself, and will open at the same place on the
19th, of August next, Miss Taylor has every
facility for teaching necessary, piano, tables,balls,
and other things required in the work, and she
should have the patronage which would help her
forward to success in the undertaking. We have
no hesitancy in saying that there is no mode of
teaching children so thorough and effective as the
Kindergarten. Miss Taylor has persevered under
difficulties during the past year, but we do hope
she will have the genuine courage to continue in
the conscientious work she has commenced, until
she will meet with the success and patronage so
well deserved. The Latter-day Saints need this
system of schools and Miss Taylor ought to have
encouragement. She is bright and intelligent and
we believe well calculated to take charge of a
school of this kind. We examined quite carefully
the work of little Christine McAllister who had
been attending the Kindergarten kept by Mrs.
Randall and Miss Taylor and we found the child,
though very young, quite familiar with form and
color.


ON THE WING.

				New York City July 4th, 1889.
DEAR MRS. WELLS:			
	Lest you frown when we meet, I will try to re-
port myself. At Phelps I ordered the Papers
giving general account of the Centennial Celebra-
tion sent to you. Meeting  kindred, the majority
of whom are stragers, reresentatives of different
branches of the family tree, which took root in
New York soil a hundred years ago was a deeply
interesting occasion.
	Visiting Ancestral Cemeteries and the Hill
Cumorah, was the next chapter, thence to Newark
and Sodus, for a few days. And thence to this
the Chief City of the Nation. We have devoted
a week to the study of some of its more prominent
features, we will leave many interesting features
unexplored. Have visited; in short St. Patrick’s
Massive Marble Cathedral, Metropolitan Museum,
Obelisk, Cleopatra’s Needle, Madison Square
and chatted with the eccentric Geo. F. Train
Trinity Church, St. Paul’s Church where Bishop
Potter is said to have rebuked the President. On
Sunday we went over to the Brooklyn Tabernacle
and listened to the far famed Rev. Talmage. He
impressed me as a thorough student of human
nature throwing his line for the prize of popu-
larity. Visited the elegant Marble Equitable
Building Custom House and many notable build-
ings. On Broadway called at the Phrenological
Journal office had a pleasant interview with Mr.
Sizer who has long been a strong pillar in sustain-
ing that institution, Mrs. Wells was not at the
office but I left your message for her.
	Went to the Battery, and Castle Garden which
was a long time landing quarters for the Saints.
Called at the Publishing House of Mrs. Jenness
Miller and investigated her dress reform system,
thence to the Tomb of Gen. Grant, which is kept
freshly decorated with flowers and strongly
guarded at government expense.
	I write while Lizzie packs the trunks, we leave
this eve, by Central N. Y. via. Niagara for Detroit
(where we visit friends) with our faces and
thoughts turned homeward. We were pleased to
meet Brother and Sister Wilcox here, Brother
Wilcox seems to be successfully prosecuting his
medical studies. Yesterday we went to the Saints
head-quarters on Long Island, spent a pleastant


hour with Sister Soper Pres. Relief Society there,
and Brother Woolley a wide-awake missionary
from Salt Lake. A heavy rain is falling and the
effects of rain have been on all our borders. With
regards to loved ones at home.
	Your wandering friend,
							S. M. KIMBALL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A GENTILE’S OPINION.
	
Mrs. Wells.
	Dear  Madam.—As we have now settled down
here for some little time, before commencing our
passage across the Pacific, I avail myself of your
permission to pen a few lines. And first I would
say of yonr people, that I think they will bear
very favorable comparison with any community
we have seen in America, in health, and in happi-
ness, whereas their industry is proverbial. They
have all the appearance of British health, with
the mentality of the Americans, and that is a
combination of character which ensures the
greatest amount of ability to work, both mentally
and physically; your buildings, public and private
show an amount of individuality of taste, I have
seldom seen anywhere, and never in such pro-
portions. Your streets and footpaths are rather
weak points in your surroundings, being too
dusty and uneven, but as one of your people in-
formed me, you do not like to waste money in
paving the streets, until the sewers are laid to
drain the City. This does not alter the fact that
the streets are disagreeable to walk across, and
your footpaths might be improved, and prevent
injustice to your abilities, if judged by them. 
	In respect to your immediate mission, “The
“Rights of Women,” I wish you every success,
especially if you also advocate the right perfor-
mance of duties, for unless knowledge of woman's
duties are accompanied by specific performance,
her rights will be useless in her progressive im-
provement.  A lady writer in the July number of
"The Century" touches upon this topic in a slant-
ing kind of way, under the title of "One Reason
of the Inefficiency of Woman's Work" but it
wants to be presented to the average mind, in a
much clearer and more forcible manner than she
has done it there. Both my reason and my incli-
nation favor the placing of women on the same
equality as men, but I can see it will be neces-
sary for them to exercise their reasoning power,
more than has hitherto been the case, and to keep
the emotional faculties more subservient to the
intellectual if they intend to keep side by side in
the contest for employment in the future.
	With kindest regards, believe me,
				yours faithfully,
								W. R.
	Please remember me kindly to Mrs. Zina
Young.


FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
TO LEVI W. RICHARDS ESQ., 20th, WARD, S. L.
			CITY, U.T.
Kind Sir: 
	Without wishing to worry you, it is with
pleasure that I avail myself of the time I have
now to give an outline of the late trip I have had
an opportunity to make. I am very well physically,
and though I have not any considerable confi-
dence in a harvest shortly to be reaped among the
Armenians—with whom we all labor—to the ex-
clusion of Brother J. M. Sjodahl an intelligent
gentleman in Palestine at present—yet I am feel-
ing well and put in every moment of my time to
qualify myself for whatsoever may in any ap-
parent probability devolve upon me.
	After visiting numerous relatives in four days
which seemed short indeed—in N. Y., we left that

[Column 2]
place and had (ten of us) as fine a trip as I have
ever had at sea though I have made eight or nine
ocean passages in the finest seasons. In France
I spent some time among acquaintances and rela-
tives (father and junior sister). Italy I hurried
over, having lived there over a year. In Greece I
spent nine or ten days. It is a progressive little
state, the Greeks have a wonderful fondness for
Americans, and a strong desire to imitate the in-
stitutions of the U. S. The population of the
whole Hellenic Kingdom (Greece) amounts to less
than that of N. Y. city alone; viz. two millions.
	In Cairo I spent a few days agreeably. Egypt
is a wonderfully prolific country—at times while
there I ceased to wonder that Israel should have
longed for Leeks and Onions of Egypt. They are
sweet, juicy and tender, especially so are all vege-
tables there raised in early spring before the rays
of the sun are very perpendicular and (strong).
	Traveling on the Mediterranean on deck
(economy) I caught colds several trips, but that
all wore off in the thirty-five days I stopped at Mt
Carmel, Palestine, in the German “Temple
Colony.” The latter hold to a theory like this
“Spiritual Israel,” should be “temporally gathered
to the Holy land, to build up "Temples to God”
which means, say they—cultivate spiritually
bodies in which the Holy Ghost might reside!
They are neat and nice folks, but greater dis-
semblers and hypocrites than they may be aware
of. There are three resident saints there now,
(Germans) who treated me well and raised $26.
for my trip to Aintab.
	Living is cheap in Turkey (inland) 15 cents a
day for palatable, if not fine food; and rent, a
fine, large, house two meeting rooms and back
room, kitchen, large, finely paved yard, garden,
water fountain etc., $30 a year. We have rented
for one year—that is, our President has.  I did
not have any opportunity of visiting Jerusalem.
However, from amplest testimony I can say that
it is a wonderful Religion-mongering den, and a
trap for the credulous. So Bethlehem—there they
sell a soft calcareous rock to miraculously cure
mammillary ailments.
	Mary sat on the earth suckling Jesus—a drop
fell to the ground and the whole soil in her im-
mediate neighborhood was converted into milk
(dry) and is now sold for the purpose stated—May
the patient (woman) have faith, or no faith, she re-
mains uncured of course!
	Palestine is the Rendez-vous of many scamps
and a few Pilgrims from every country almost.
	Brother Richards, you will understand that this
letter is not written on a table, but I am sitting on
a floor, with my legs crossed, and writing this on
my lap, like a Chinaman might do, the pen is also
a Turkish arrangement. We have well attended
meetings, hundreds come sometimes, they listen
and seem delighted, saying how strange and
beautiful your doctrine is; but why do you not go
to the heathen? We have the gospel you know---
even if it is not all true, yet our object is good,
and we will be saved, etc., etc. Except one or
two persons they neither oppose us nor join with
us—no hatred, no love. A strange people.
	The Turks are a sober, steadfast but apathetic
race. There is a Tartar (Chinese) element in
their blood. The Tartars conquered the country,
and though they do not wear a uniform cue yet
many shave the whole head, leaving only a scalp,
and to supply uniformity they wear Fez’ some
light colored, some dark, designed originally to
correspond to the color of the skin, thus repre-
senting—by proxy—the skin of the head sup-
posed to be shaved; and to represent the cue, a
fine silk tassel hangs on each Fez or skull cap---
such we missionaries wear too, to conform
somewhat to local custom.
	I recieve an occasional paper from Utah; and
am pleased to see matters brighter. In a late
“Star” I see a contribution from “Lula” very nice

[Column 3]
—She, yourself and friends have my most sincere
regards.
	Regards to Brothers Wm. Salmon, W. H.
Tovey, G. M. Ottinger, T. B. Lewis, Father
White, and those ladies and others who were so
kind to me, I hardly realized I had friends until
in the hour of need.
	Sincerely and very respectfully yours etc.,
					CHAS. U. LOCANDER.
Aintab, Alepps Distr., Turkey, May 25, 1889.


MATERNAL INFLUENCE.

THE EDITRESS OF EXPONENT:
	From the perusal of the two last numbers of
your paper I perceive one of your main objects is
to secure to women in general, and the Mormon
women in particular, those Rights which belong
to them, equally with men, politically and socially.
	Allow me to aid you in this matter, by drawing
attention to one of the most important rights con-
ferred on women by Nature, which cannot be
wrested away from them, but which has not been
sufficiently recognized, or acted upon by the sex
hitherto, although there are the possibilities within
its influence to obtain all, and more than all that
you can desire.
	Nearly every one has heard the old saying
“That every clever man that lives, must have had
a clever mother, or, the inference to be drawn is,
that he would not have won distinction by his in-
tellectual powers.
	This is a blind sort of way in recognizing a
truth which has had a mighty influence in the past,
and which will have a much stronger power in the
future, when the Maternal Influence of each
mother on the destinies of her child’s life, is fully
understood and acted upon.
	It is a well known fact in Physiology, and one
that has been acted upon by stockbreeders for
generations, "That the father gives the body, and
the mother gives the mind,” yet human beings
ignore that knowledge in the propagation of their
oun race, which they find acts so advantageously
in the animal kingdom generally.  Many men
have perceived this power which lies inherent in
women, ready for immense possibilities when
knowledge sets it moving, and which acts
naturally now, though not intelligently with every
female.  It requires a Lady Teacher like yourself
to present the subject to your readers in such
language, and in such a manner, as only ladies
can use, for these subjects have been so long
under the ban of prejudice that it would be con-
sidered highly indelicate for women to hear them
promulgated by any one of the opposite sex.
	But it may be stated in general terms without
being offensive that every child is indebted to its
father for its body, and constitution, or vitality and
those faculties which lie at the basilian, or lower
part of the brain, while the mother contributes the
upper part of the brain, embracing the moral, re-
ligious, and intellectual part of the children’s
future, and this principally during the last half of
gestation.
	When this fact is thoroughly understood and
acted upon, you can well understand how children
can be so moulded before birth, that there need be
no contest for Rights, either female or male, for
every mother can bequeath such conscientious-
ness to her child, that every right would be con-
ferred or granted without solicitation simply be-
cause wrong would be impossible to its nature.
	As the mother’s mind is during pregnancy,
whether operated upon by pleasant thoughts and
surroundings or the reverse, so will the child be,
if fear predominates the child will inherit it, if
ambition, pride, or egotism, it will be transmitted
to the child, the same as regards honesty in word
and deed, generosity, imagination, hope, or any
other of the faculties in the coronal region and
reflectives.
						W. R. NELSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE HOPE WITHIN US.

	Young ladies, do we all realize our position as
members of the Church and Kingdom of God?
Are we fully alive to the necessity of preparing
ourselves for future usefulness? In the revela
tions of the Lord to us, given in these last days,
He tells us to “let the solemnities of eternity rest
on our minds.” Though the things of time are
small compared with those of eternity, is there not
enough in the prophecies and promises concern-
ing the things of time to fill our minds with a de-
termination, to let the perishable things of this
world be only a secondary consideration.
	The one main thing which we, as young men
and women in Israel, lack, is a proper apprecia-
tion of the duties which devolve upon us.
	If we knew that it was at the risk of our lives to
get drunk or swear, would we do so? If we were
in the presence of a great earthly king whom we
knew would take our lives if we committed such
offences,would we, to gratify a false taste or whim,
throw away our lives? No, indeed; but accord-
ing to that word which we all as Saints, believe
in, many of us break the laws of that King who is
able to take not only our lives, and end our earthly
existence, but has all power over our souls and
controls our destinies through all eternity.
									S. P.
	Manuscript Paper, Nephi.


SUMMIT CO., W. S. A.

	A meeting was held at the Tabernacle, Coal-
ville, Thursday, May 30, to organize the Summit
Co., branch of the U. W. S. A. Mrs. Cluff was
called to the chair, and Miss Brown was made
Secretary protem. The meeting was addressed
by Mrs. S. M. Kimball of Salt Lake City, who
spoke ably, and earnestly of the advantages to be
derived from such an organization. She referred
to the intellectual stimulus such a society would
be to its members; preparations for its meetings
would involve study and mental improvement.
	Hon. W. W. Cluff, also addressed the meeting
advocating the organization of such a society. 
	The Summit County W. S. A.. was then
organized with forty members, five more have
since been added. The following officers were
chosen.
	President, Mrs. Boyden. First Vice-President
Mrs. Rheade. Second Vice-President, Miss
Brown. Third Vice-President, Mrs. Hudson.
Executive committee: Miss Ball, Mrs. Han-
nah Eldredge, Miss Nora Evans, Miss May
Cluff, Miss Lena Allison. Secretary, Miss
Maggie Salmon. Corresponding Secretary, Mrs.
Edith Cluff. Treasurer, Mrs. Lavinia Beard.
	Considerable enthusiasm  was manifesred. Mrs.
Kimball, on taking leave of the President, re-
marked that she felt gratified and encouraged at
the result of the meeting.
				M. BROWN, Secretary, protem.


ADDRESS TO W. S. A. AT OGDEN.

Mrs. President Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I congratulate the women of Ogden on
having organized an Association for political
study and advancement in the science of
government.  I realize fairly perhaps how
much prejudice and opposition there will be
to encounter, and difficulties to surmount and
overcome in the pursuit of a purpose which to
many seems unwomanly and out of place.
But women are in reality amenable to the laws
of the country in which they dwell, and if
property owners, as many are, they are taxed
to help maintain the laws, while perhaps
totally ignorant on all these subjects, having
no representation and getting no practical ex-

[Column 2]
perience, except to pay taxes; such women are
scarcely prepared for a sudden change of which
perchance they had never thought or dreamed,
and of which they had no fore-knowledge.
But the women of Utah and many of you
whom I see here to-day have had an experience
in the practical use of the ballot.  But in our
day many changes are being brought about,
and one of these is woman's place in the great
world of thought and action, in the home, in
the state, and in the nation for suffrage has
become a national question.  We sometimes
speak of it as woman's era—so much has been
and is being done to elevate and help woman-
kind.  The world is growing wiser every day
in regard to woman's position.  In fact there
has been a vast improvement in the last fifty
years,  in woman's status educationally, in-
dustrially and politically.
	The laws of several of the states in this great
Republic of which we Americans boast so 
much, have been essentially modified in regard
to women and children since the women them-
selves have been agitating the question of politi-
cal equality.  I do not say, nor do I expect, 
that when women vote, all the evils that 
afflict society will be remedied or removed, nor
that all oppression will cease; but I do believe
that women have a right to use their influence
towards making the laws that are to govern
them and their children, and should have the
privilege of having a voice as to who shall
execute the laws of the land, and how the taxes
shall be applied and in no other possible way
can woman exert as direct an influence for
her own and the public good as with the ballot
in her own hands; and I do most firmly believe
that woman's moral and spiritual nature will
impress itself with a recognized force upon all
questions in which she is permitted to par-
ticipate, thus helping to refine and purify the
political atmosphere which envelops the nation.
	I am aware that it is said by men that
women vote now, indirectly through their
husbands, brothers and sons, but who would
not rather wield the power herself even were
such the case, and especially when, as a literary 
lady of wealth and influence informed me in
Washington, the only vote she had at the polls
was through her colored coachman;  her
husband had been killed in the war of the 
Rebellion, and she, a lady of culture and re-
finement as well as wealth—was denied rep-
resentation though she paid heavy taxes—and
she was not even sure her servant voted on her
side of the question.  Such cases and similar
ones are very common.  Woman likes best to
act her own part and if there is a point to be
gained in political matters,  her vote is one
more and might turn the scale.
	John Quincy Adams said, in defending the
political petition of the women of Plymouth, 
that "women are not only justified, but exhibit
the most exalted virtue, when they do depart
from the domestic circle, and enter upon the
concerns of their country, of humanity and 
of their God."
	In the days when women voted in Utah, it
was very commonly remarked by us, that our
individual vote was equal to that of any man's,
no matter what his ability, or  his political
position.  And to all those who understood
and appreciated the franchise, it gave a feel-
ing of independence, that was in it-self an
elevating power.  Men will assuredly respect
women's opinions more, when they know they
can give them expression at the polls.
	American men are everywhere reputed to
be more tender and indulgent to women than
those of any other land; socially, they elevate
them to a very high plane, even giving them
the title of "queens of society," though these
same men will  not admit their wives to their
club rooms, and are shocked to hear of women
voting;  but will this social distinction out-
weigh  the ballot, and give them influence,

[Column 3]
such as equal suffrage will give?  Verily no?
Who does not know better, that has watched
the tide of human affairs carefully?  What
woman of common sense, would not rather be
the equal of her husband than to be called
pet names?  Besides, every honorable man
respects a woman more, who is his equal in
intelligence,  than one who is his inferior.
The old rule of woman's weakness and man's
power, will be done away with many of its
seducing influences, and attendant  miseries,
when women have equal rights with men.
	There are many men everywhere yet to be
converted, to this new, or comparatively new
doctrine, of woman's equality or emancipation,
and would like her to  believe still, that she is
sweeter,  and dearer, and more lovable, when 
she keeps in the old beaten track of domestic
life, and never aspires to anything beyond the
boundary of her own domicile.  But this will
scarcely answer for the mothers, whose children
are growing up, and about to take their part in
the world's great drama.  Then, there is some-
thing to be done; and more things to be thought
of than  looking sweet and demure; and what
man would not wish, at  such a time, that his
wife were really prepared to take up a goodly
share of the burden and obligations.  And
how many women are there in the world who
must even take them all; widows, and those
worse than widowed, whose husbands have,
notwithstanding all the sweetness given, all the
deference shown them,  given themselves up to
the demon, alcohol? Then,  in such a home, is
it not absolutely necessary that the wife be
strong-minded, as well as physically strong,
to carry the load of life along?  And who is
to represent her and her interests at the polls?
Her vote is needed then against the dramshop.
Such instances are not rare; they may be found
by the thousands in America, as well as in for-
eign lands,  They are too sad to dwell upon,
but they are solemn facts nevertheless.
		*	*	*	*	*
	And when women sit at ease in luxurious
homes and say they have all the rights they
want, and are disgusted with those who are not
content,  and who are interceding  for the
ballot, they simply shut their eyes and ears, to
the cries of the wronged and oppressed; they
forget, or ignore, the Savior's words, "love thy
neighbor," but to many, even of these de-
luded ones, an awakening comes, sometimes
suddenly,  and too late,  they find perchance,
they too,  are left, by death or misfortune,  to
battle with the  world.  How much better to 
have been prepared.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	If women are fortunate enough to marry a
man who supports them,  and gives them all
the rights they want, for the services they
render in  love, it  is well.  But if he fails to 
do this, would it not be  better were they pre-
pared to be self-sustaining?  Especially tf they
have equal pay for equal work, which, it seems,
they never will have, until they have the ballot
in their own hands.  That is one of the im-
portant matters to be adjusted, and working
women themselves do not seem to be aware of
this fact.  Many of them are afraid of the
question of Woman's Rights, and will say, "I
have  a perfect dread of women who are
always wanting men's places," but they  are
quite willing  to accept men's wages, neverthe-
less.
	However were men and women all agreed
in every relation in life, and the world march-
ing on with flying colors, as it were, to victory,
even then, woman's word should be as potent
as man's, and her voice in all matters of  the
home, the state, and society of equal impor-
tance. And there need be no fears of collision
because men and women both go to the polls,
any more than because they go to the theatre
or church together; for so long as men retain


[Column 1]
their magnificent physical organizations and
proportions, and as long as women possess
their sensitive, sympathetic, maternal tem-
peraments, just so long as these distinctions of
sex exist, that great primal force which
binds men and women, will continue to at-
tract them to each other. It has been said,
and truly, "If there be one thing of which
nature is careful, she is careful of her types,"
and while "that likeness in unlikeness sub-
sists which is at the base of all physical at-
traction, there is little fear of sexual rela-
tions being either reversed or annulled,"
but let woman as well as man, know how to
protect herself, and stand on an equal platform.
	Lucy Stone, one of the foremost women of
the age, once said, "Woman's nature is stamped
and sealed by the Almighty, and there is no
danger of her unsexing herself, while His eye
watches her. 
	Margaret Fuller, one of the earliest advocates
of the higher education of women in America,
said, "One hour of love will teach a woman
more of her true relations, than all your
philosophizing. These, said a great writer of
our own day, are the testimonies of women
who had studied Greek, and were only the
more womanly for their study,—illustrating
the idea that the greater includes the less.
	The Duchess de Fontanges is described as
being, "as beautiful as an angel and as silly
as a goose." Men worshipped her beauty, but
despised her in their hearts, and she certainly
could not have arisen to any greatness upon
her own merits.
	What we want most at the present time, is to
understand political questions and privileges,
and make ourselves better acquainted by
study and discussion, with the laws of the
land, and the government which taxes us, and
protects us in our rights, or professes to do so.
	It is said, if women are strong-minded, that
is if they should vote, because that is the sum
and substance of the matter, that they will
neglect the home, and will not cook the dinner
and that is said to be a necessity for man; at
least, the poet tells us so, and by-the-bye that
poet was a man; that man can do without
everything except cooks and dining—he
give it beautifully in these words.

	We may live without poetry—music and art,
	We may live without conscience, and live without heart,
	We may live without friends’ or may live without books
	But civilized man, cannot live without cooks.

	He may live without books, what is knowledge but
		grieving?
	He may live without hope, what is hope but deceiving?
	He may live without love, what is passion but pining?
	But where is the man—that can live without dining!"

	For the seventeen years that the women of
Utah voted, I never once heard it stated or
argued that the bread was poorer, or the home
neglected, or the husbands shirts without
buttons, or less economy in the household, as a
consequence. In fact, everything went on
much the same, only a little better. Primary
meetings and Conventions were more interest-
ing, and there was a fairer chance of getting
good men in office, and not nearly so much
worry over elections as there is now-a-days;
therefore, it must have been a great relief to
men, instead of a disturbing element.
	In arguing the question of woman's equality
the inference is usually drawn from the family,
and mainly the husband and wife, utterly ig-
noring the fact, that men and women were
human beings before they were husband and
wife, and that they had formed ideas, views,
and opinions, and arrived at an age when they
exerted an individual influence, known and
felt in the great world of mankind, if only
among their immediate circle; but in speaking
of equal suffrage, this fact is very seldom

[Column 2]
taken into consideration. It is invariably the
plea that it will create domestic broils, pro-
mote dissension, provoke quarrels, etc. We
all know very well that there are thousands of
women in the United States, who never have,
and very likely, never will marry, for various
reasons unknown to us, and which we have
not time to discuss; who is going to represent
the interests of all these single women? cer-
tainly not the single men, they have too many
interests of their own. In my own native
state, Mass., there are thousands of them.
They have lives to live, work to do, interests
at stake and they need the ballot as a lever
to help them in their struggles for bread-
winning or other pursuits, or for protection.
	What does Emily Pfeiffer say to the members
of Parliament in Great Britain. "Necessity
has presented itself to the women of our gen-
eration with talons and beak more formidable
than those of the eagle, who drives the young
one from the nest. They have not sought the 
shelterless strife with opposing prejudices and
interests, but have been forced into it by the
incontrovertible, law, which pushes the tribes
of men over barren continents, and out upon
stormy seas. It is hunger the mighty maker,
which is urging our women upon new paths,
and driving them upon a way which they would
not, to the fulfillment of a destiny they know
not. With this force behind them it is im-
possible, that they should turn back, impossi-
ble that those before should resist their impul-
sion. They have been crowded by their own
numbers out of the penfold in which their ac-
tivity was enclosed, and forced to seek the
equivalent of their labor in an ever widening
sphere. In making the experiment of their
fitness for untried work, they have had to face
odium and abundant ridicule from those they
hold dear. Their efforts to train themselves
for higher and more remunerative labor has
encountered the opposition of a jealously
guarded monopoly, and the claim for citizen-
ship now formulated though enforced inde-
pendence has rendered it a right—may be
met,—seeing that it lacks the element of
material force which, still enters largely into
human affairs, on many sides with indifference
and on some with scorn. But the stream of
tendency which sets in the way of woman's ad-
vance is irresistible, and the vital rational prin-
ciples incorporated in her claim could in the
end win alone in the struggle with material
resistance."
	Other remarks were made beside those em-
bodied in these notes, but the main points are 
included herein.
						July, 1st, 1889.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS

BOX ELDER.
	(Synopsis of Minutes of Young Ladies Con-
ference held at Brigham City June 12th, 1889.
Pres. Minnie J. Snow, Presiding.)  Singing,
“The Spirit of God” &c.  Prayer by Bishop
O. F. Whitney, singing “How Firm a Founda-
tion” &c.  Upon the stand were Bishop O. F.
Whitney, Sisters Elmina S. Taylor and E. B.
Wells of Salt Lake City, also the leading
officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.  Sister E. B.
Wells felt to speak in praise of the Young
Ladies of Brigham City and also to encourage
them to persevere in the cultivation of the
talents bestowed upon them that they might at-
tain to the spiritual perfection which they de-
sired.  Spoke upon faith, humility and the ap-
preciation of blessings and gifts, and entreated
them to listen to counsel and profit by the ex-
perience of the older sisters.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney desired to speak those
things that would be appropriate for the occa-
sion. “If this could always be so there would

[column 2]
be fewer dull meetings.  The spirit of God is
the spirit of truth.” Explained the parable of
putting old wine into new bottles—as applying
to teaching things that are not appropriate to
the occasion.  If we have intelligent ideas and
a mind open to the spirit it will clothe them
in fitting and appropriate language.” Spoke
on the beauties of true poetry; “it contains
everything that is lovely, chaste, and true.
Mormonism is full of poetry; it is God’s mode
of teaching truth for the conversion of men. 
Christ gave teachings in poetry to make im-
pressions on the mind.  You can learn from
nature in all her beautiful forms; they are
Revelations form God. God’s universe is built
upon symbols.  The unseen is greater than that
which is visible.  The object of our mission
here is to get back to our Heavenly Father.
This earth is not the heaven of our God, it is a
foreign mission, a place of exile—We must
worship nothing here.  We will go back to our
Home.  Thus, death exists here.” Spoke of
the perishability of all things mortal. “Earthly
things are symbols of things Heavenly.  So
long as we are fettered by evil passions we will
be kept in prison. Woman as well as man is
a symbol of God; she is typical of the earth
itself.  Earth brings forth as a mortal mother.
Again woman is typical of the church of Christ;
by which our Spiritual nature is built up; as
woman sometimes brings forth children that
are wild and wayward so does the earth bring
forth thorns and briars.  The Church will
never be thrown down or given to another
people; nor will woman again be trampled upon.
Man is King woman is Queen and they will
reign side by side.”
	(Sister Lille Freeze desired our faith and
prayers that she might be able to speak in-
structively to us. “If I am sufficiently humble
I will be able to benefit you.  Each heart
knows its own trials and temptations.  Our
greatest triumphs depend upon a subjection of
our inherent evil passions.  Let us seek to pre-
form our spiritual duties and give our souls
liberty to exercise the gifts of God.  Try to un-
derstand the manifestation of God’s power and
comprehend the laws that govern them.”
	Sister Freeze being moved upon by the spirit
broke forth into tongues.  Sister Wells gave
the interpretation.  Meeting adjourned until
2 p. m. Singing, and benediction by Elder
Ephraim Jensen).
	At 2 p. m.  Singing, “O Ye Mountains
High.” Prayer by Sister Perry, of Mantua.
Singing, “Zion Stands With Hills" &c). A
correspondence between Mary Baird and
Fannie Grahel subject “Mormonism” was read
by the writers.
	Christena Keller, of Mantua, spoke on the
subject of Profanity.  Sister E. S. Taylor our
General Supt. offered her usual pleasant
greeting and expressed her pleasure in again
beholding us in conference assembled.  Her
desire was to bless and benefit, “and none can
do this without the spirit of the Father.  Many
of the young thoughtlessly plunge into the
world’s pleasures and in the end reap sorrow.
In the year 1869, President Young organized
these associations for mutual benefit. Let us
so improve that his exertions may not be in
vain.
	The evil propensities of our natures seem to
predominate, therefore it requires a constant
struggle to do good deeds and perform duty.
We must either progress or retrograde, and to
do the former humble, heartfelt prayer is
necessary.  Try and make duty a pleasure it
is so easy to do that which we have a liking
for.
	The Lord has blessed you wonderfully,
therefore you will be more accountable to Him
than are the people of the world.  Prepare
yourselves for the future responsibility that
awaits you, that of wife and mother.
	'Tis said “Man is known by the company he


keeps” as like cleaves to like. Those who have
good motives will feel uncomfortable in the
society of the wicked. Be careful in your
choice of husbands, ask the Lord to direct you
in this matter. We should keep our homes
orderly if we expect happiness and content-
ment. Study refinement at home, have a place
for everything and everything in its place.
	We have decided to establish a Magazine,
it is an accomplishment to be able to place
one’s thoughts on paper. Preserve your essays.
The best selections will be chosen from your
manuscript papers and published. We hope
each association will sustain it by their sub-
scription. May we seek to become that perfect
people who will be permitted to enter God’s
presence.
	(Sister Lillie Freeze: “I trust to be
strengthened while standing before you.)  Do
not feel discouraged if you cannot retain all
that you hear, come and listen and it will some-
time be brought to your remembrance. Be
cleanly it is conducive to health. Cook nutri-
tious food for your families.” Spoke briefly on
the “Word of Wisdom.”
	“In former days it was considered a mis-
fortune to be a woman, not so now. Cultivate
the courage “to do and dare” that which our
leaders require. We should humbly pray to
be guided in marriage, that our hand and
heart should never be entrusted to one who is
unworthy. We can have the spirit of discern-
ment if we seek for it. I believe one reason
why our people are suffering is through break-
ing the Sabbath day, it is a day of resting and
not of pleasure-seeking.”(Closed by exercising
the gift of tongues, to which no interpretation
was given.)
	Prest. Clawson: “The accomplishments of life
are useful and admirable, but housekeeping
should first be learned. I can assure you from
observation and experience that a well cooked
meal accompanied by good nature are the best
modes of securing coveted favors from your
husbands. Do not let a spirit of fault finding
creep into your families, if you do unhappiness
will exist. Do not bring disgrace and sorrow
upon your parents who have labored hard for
your support. Seek to add comfort to their
aged heads. Do not shun the responsibility of
married life.
	Pres. Charles Kelley said “those who have
addressed us have been inspired of God.”
Spoke of the crimes perpetrated at Pleasure
Resorts on the Sabbath Day. “May we be
free from these evils.
	(Pres. M. J. Snow said: “my heart is full of
gratitude to God for the manifestations of His
power and the blessings of this Conference.")
Spoke of her pleasure and interest in laboring
among the Young Ladies of this Stake.
'Owing to lack of time, some members on the
programme have necessarily been omitted.
May the kindly exhortations and wise counsel
given by our friends to-day, make deep im-
press on our hearts, and through renewed
energy and zeal in our lives appear.” (Con-
ference adjourned for three months.) Choir
and congregation sang, “I’ll Serve the Lord
While I am Young” &c. Closing pray by
Pres. C. Kelley.
			RAY EVANS, Sec. Pro. tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REORGANIZATION.
	(A meeting of the Relief Society was held in
Mona, Juab Co.,May 30th, 1889.  The Young
Ladies and Primary met with them by  invita-
tion.)
	Pres. Sperry and wife, Pres.  Paxman and
wife, of the Stake Presidency, and Stake Pres.
of the Relief Society, Mrs. Mary Pitchforth
and her Counselor A. L. Bigler, Patriarch J.
G. Bigler, and a number of other brethren and
sisters from Nephi, also Bishop John Keinke


and his Counselor Edward Hay were present.
     Sister Pitchforth presided:  After the sing-
ing and prayer, Sister Pitchforth stated the
object of the meeting.  "We have gathered to-
gether to show our respect and affection to 
Sister Eliza Somerville who has been a faithful
laborer in Mona for twenty-nine years, and has
presided over the Relief Society of Mona for
nearly twenty-one years.  She has in very deed
been a mother in Israel to old and young.
Now she is advanced in years and her health is
poor and she desires to be released from her
position.” Spoke in praise of Sister Somer-
ville's faithful labors and of her integrity, it
was motioned that we release Sister Somer-
ville from her labors and give her a vote of
thanks and our love confidence and  blessing,
and prayed God to bless her in her declining
years.  Sister Pitchforth put the motion after
it was seconded and it was carried unani-
mously.
     Sister Somerville spoke a few words, was
pleased to see so many young people, said to
 them, "always try to perform your duties.  Cul-
tivate good manners.  Nothing looks nicer in
young people than to be well-behaved.  Do
what the spirit of God suggests at all times."
     Sister Alice Bascome was nominated to be
President and Sisters Anna Lerwell and Sarah
Shepherd her Counselors. Sarah Williams
Secretary, Margie Much Treasurer.  Seconded
and carried unanimously.
     After the organization was completed, a very
good programme consisting of songs, recita-
tions, and short speeches from the visitors, was
rendered.  Sister Margie Much, in behalf of
the Teachers presented Sister Somerville with
a copy of the Book of Mormon, as a small
token of their love for her, and their apprecia-
tion of her labors.  Sister Emily Sperry spoke
in the gift of tongues and the interpretation
was given.  A class of eighteen little girls sang
very sweetly the exercise song, "What did
Jesus say."
     Next on the programme was a feast for the
“inner man” in the shape of a delicious picnic
provided by the good sisters, and blessed by
Bro. Bigler after which all partook with a 
relish and a social time of enjoyment was spent
in conversation.  Brother Much dismissed by
prayer and all returned to their homes well
satisfied with the afternoon they had spent.
							M. E. T.


WOMAN.
	The woman who does not please is a false
note in the harmony of nature. She may not 
have youth or beauty or even manner; but she
must have something in her voice or expression,
or both, which it makes you feel better dis-
posed toward your race to look at or listen to.
She knows that as well as we do; and her first
question, after you have been taking your soul 
into her consciousness, is "Did I please?"
	A woman never forgets her sex. She would 
rather talk with a man than an angel any day.
Womanly women are very kindly critics, except 
to themselves, and now and then to their own
sex. The less there is of sex about a woman the
more she is to be dreaded. But take a real 
woman at her best moment—well dressed
enough to be pleased with herself, not so re-
splendent as to be a show and a sensation, with
the varied outside influences that set vibrating
the harmonic notes of her nature stirring in
the air above her, and what is social life to
compare with one of those vital interchanges
of thought and feeling with her that make an
hour memorable?
	What can equal her tact, her delicacy, her
subtlety of expression, her quickness to feel the
changes of temperature, as the warm and cool
currents of thoughts blow by turns? At one
moment she is microscopically intellectual,


critical, scrupulous in judgment as an analyst's
balance; and the next as sympathetic as the
open rose that sweetens the wind from whatever
quarter it finds its way to her bosom.  It is in
the hospitable soul of woman that a man for-
gets he is a stranger, and so becomes natural
and truthful, at the same time that he is mes-
merized by all those divine differences which
make her a mystery and bewilderment.
OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.


OUR BABY GIRL.
		
	“There is no flock, however watched and tended,
		But one dead lamb is there; 
	There is no fireside howsoe'er defended,
		But has one vacant chair.”

	Died in Luna Secora Co. New Mexico, of Croup,
Katie Edith, daughter of William and Harriet E. Laney;
born April, 13th, 1887, and died June 11, 1889. The
little one was an only daughter, and almost worshipped
by her three little brothers. The parents are grief-stricken
at this sudden blow. The little girl was like a pure white
lily, so fair and frail, she seemed more of heaven than
earth. May Our Heavenly Father comfort the bereaved
ones in their sorrow, and may they acknowledge, even in
the midst of their suffering that "He doeth all thing
well."
								 	     E.C.F.


NOTICE. 
Dr. Hughes’ Training School for Nurses
Will open its Second Term October 15, 1889, at
her residence on First West Street. The pro-
posed summer term will be postponed on account
of the heat. Students desiring to enter should
apply as early as possible as the usual number of
the class is now nearly complete.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant's Shoes. 
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
