			UINTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference (also
the Annual Conference) was held in the
New Stake Tabernacle at Vernal, August
26, 1907. President Sarah M. Colton pre-
siding.
	There were present with us Sisters
Emma S. Woodruff and Annie Wells
Cannon of the General Board from Salt
Lake City. There were also several
brethren of the Priesthood and a good re-
presentation of sisters. After the usual
opening exercises President Sarah M.
Colton welcomed the sisters, and spoke
of the completion of the tabernacle. She
reported her work and gave a short his-
tory of the Relief Society from the first
settlement of this valley until the present
time.
	General and local officers were sustained,
also a financial report of the Stake Board
was read.
	We had reports from the following pre-
sidents:
	Hannah Odekirk, Vernal Relief Society.
	Phoebe Hislop, Maeser Relief Society.
	Mary J. Hards, Glines Relief Society.
	Counselor Alice Billings, Jensen Relief
Society. 
	Counselor Adella Hunting, Naples Re-
lief Society.
	A Duet was given from Glines Relief
Society by Miss Effie Johnson and Bro.
Frank Thomas.
	Lecture by Annie K. Bartlett, entitled
“Duty of parents to children.”
	Emma Woodruff addressed the congre-
gation touched on childrens rights, and
the work of the Relief Society, advised
the sisters to gather grain in the time of
harvest, she read the remarks of Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith to the Relief So-
ciety given at Salt Lake City Conference,
advised the sisters to do all the good pos-
sible, bore her testimony to the truthful-
ness of the gospel.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon spoke of
the teachers’ duties in the Relief Society
and the character one should have; to
avoid all back biting, advised the young
women to join the Relief Society, warned
mothers not to send their daughters to
the cities to work without proper care,
urged the storing of wheat, and the im-
portance of the privilege of equal suffr-
age to women.
	President Colton announced officers
meeting at the close of this meeting, ad-
journed until evening at 7:30 to meet at
Vernal Ward House.
	Singing and Benediction.
Evening Session. Opened by singing
and Prayer. First on the program a lec-


