			M’DONALD PACE.

A womanly woman, what more can we say?
	Has passed from the gloom to the beautiful
		day;
As such she wss greeted, and if women we be,
	As such we shall know her eternally.

Methinks I see the books opened,
And an angel the pages turns o’er,
Till he comes to her name when he pauses;
	“Sainted woman, thou’lt sorrow no more;

Thy life has been weighed ln the balance,
	Which tipped at the weight of pure gold,
By this thy name is recorded ‘most worthy,’
	Enter into the joys of thy Lord.”
				RUTH M. FOX.
				ROMANIA B PRATT.
				LUCY A. CLARK.
							Committee.
	Appointed at the meeting held January 31, 1900,

	The original intention of the Club was
carried out, those assigned on the pro-
gram preparing themselves with original
articles, poems or addresses.
	The history of the first decade of the
Club, written and read by its writer,
Lydia D. Alder, at its tenth annual meet-
ing, shows that the Club has had a bril-
liant career. The same history was later
published in full in the Woman’s Expo-
nent.
	Many of its first members are still forg-
ing ahead in the literary world. Some
are holding newspaper positions of note
today, both at home and abroad. Ada
M. Patterson, one of the latter, is on the
staff of the New York Journal and even
now keeps in touch with the Club. Jo-
sephine Spencer, a writer of great merit,
is on the staff of the Deseret News, while
others are regular writers for the home
magazines, as well as those of the east.
At the present time, Dr. R. B. Pratt, name
changed to Penrose, is abroad in the mis-
sionary field with her husband, Charles
W. Penrose, president of the European
mission. Letters from her are prized by
her friends. They show no decrease in
her interest of those so long associated
with her in the uplifting of women.
	Perhaps no club in the state or nation
has been represented like the U. W.
Press in the congresses of the world.
The great congress and fair held in Chi-
cago in 1893 had delegates from Utah,
both of the Club and other women’s or-
ganizations.
	At the Quinquennial Congress held in
London June, 1899, there were present
of the Club members, E. B. Wells, Susa
Y. Gates, Carrie S. Thomas, M. A. Caine,
and Lydia D. Alder, Seven other Utah
ladies were of the party, who were num-
bered among Queen Victoria’s guests
when she entertained the foreign ladies
of the congress at tea, July 7, 1899, at


