		A POEM ON SYMPATHY,
O sympathy, thou greatest gift of God!
E’en in the greatest men who earth have trod
So rarely found! Thy gentle, beauteous calm
Acting on we ry souls like healin[-] balm,
Dispelling care and softening the pain,
Brings with it peace, restores to life again.
Behold it yonder, by the sufferer's bed,
It smooths the pillows, cools the aching head,
Speaks tenderly, and by its inward power
Makes the long day of pain seem but an hour.
Daring disease its mission to fulfill;
Flies swift on eagle’s wings to do God’s will;
Fearless of danger, even o the grave
’Twould hasten, but one pang of pain to save.
’Tis but a look the h aving of a sigh,
The clasped hand, the tear-drop in the eye,
All speak its language—eloquence divine!
That makes the soul that feels its presence
	shine
With God-like beauty, shedding rays of light, 
In rays of glory, through the darkest night
Of human pain, perplexity and care
Longing to ease the burden and to share
With those distressed the misery and woe.
Those who have felt its value only know
The soothing magic of its tender love:
Its wondrous strength, yet gentle as a dove,
Could I the riches of a king command, 
Amid the train of earth’s proud heroes stand
A conqueror—applanded and admired,
Or could I, with the zeal of science, fired 
Discover planets, know each flashing star,
And tell the world the distances they are,
And had not sympathy within my breast,
I were a poor, a miserable jest, 
Compared with him who can for others feel,
Who gently tries the wounded heart to heal,
E'en though he were the poorest on the earth,
Yet in this one a pearl of wondrous worth
In sight of God; and deemed by Him to be
A king, who hath within him sympathy.

	By reading the life of Christ we will
find that he was the most sociable and
sympathetic Being that ever lived on the
earth. And if we are His followers we
should try to follow His example.


He exercised His love and tenderness
towards every one. His daily duties
were made up of relieving the sick, the
distressed ones, healing the afflicted. He
comforted the poor, the lowly, the down-
cast and weary-hearted, and those who
had cause to mourn. He knew the sor-
rows and griefs of the soul, the pains and
aches of the human heart, and the temp-
tations which come to every one.
	Through His own severe suffering He
could feel for all of us. He taught us to
love, pray for and forgive our enemies—
the hardest thing for mortals to do. Yet
He taught us by example, and even were
the last act of His life, for He healed
Judas’ (His traitor’s) ear. Then, when
left entirely in the hands of His enemies,
taking all their scoffs, scorn and mockery
without a word or look of reproach, suffer-
ing untold agonies, utterly forsaken by
friends, it seemed He stood alone. Yet
He could look upon His enemies and
pray, “Father forgive them, for they
know not what they do.”
	He had won the victory over every
weakness of the human heart. The hon-
or and glory He gave to His Father. Now
He intercedes with Father and pleads for
His children always, for He is our Savior
and our King.
			MARY BERLIN JOHNSON.
	Huntsville, Utah.


