[Column 1]
Windsor Castle, the closing function of
that ever-to-be-remembered congress.
	Before closing this review of the first
decade of the Club’s existence, perhaps
it would be interesting to mention some
of its annual gatherings, notable women
entertained, and of the work accom-
plished along the lines of journalism and
poetic writings. A book of the Club’s
minutes has been lost, but the annual
meeting of 1894 gives us the names of the
offiicers of that year; they were as fol-
lows: Honorary President, E. B. Wells;
President, E. R. Shipp, M. D.; Ruth M.
Fox, First Vice-president; Lydia D. Al-
der, Second Vice-president; Lizzie S.
Wilcox, Recording Secretary; Assistant,
Ella W. Hyde; Cor. Secretary, R. B.
Pratt; Assistant, Olea Shipp, Treasurer,
C. C. R. Wells; Auditor, Phebe C. Young;
Dr. E. B. Ferguson, Chairman Program
Committee.
	Anniversary day being also Halloween,
a special program was arranged. We
had pleasant and unique gatherings in
the past, but this year rather exceeded
aome of its predecessors.
	Either by costume or symbol, the mem-
bers represented as truthfully as might be
some of the well known authors or liter-
ary characters. As her name was called
she arose, and any present could guess
at the character represented.
	Literature, history, fable, all were there.
Some of the costumes worn were beauti-
ful, striking, or original as the wearer de-
sired.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp as Portia looked im-
posing in judicial robes; impressive her
speech “The quality of merey is not
strained” etc. Ruth M. Fox attired in
various gaudy colors represented sergeant
Buz fuz, in Dickens. Miss Gladys Wood-
mannsee was Hypatia in Roman cos-
tume, Ella W. Hyde looked graceful in-
fern leaves with fern fan as Fanny Fern.
Dr. R. B. Pratt dressed as a nun read from
Longfellow’s “Evangeline”, By a co-in-
cidence, Phebe C. Young and Lizzie S.
Wilcox, each representing Lucile, as a
nun, had even chosen the same selection
from that work to read. However, the
ladies changed their selection which set-
sled the matter. C. C. R. Wells, repre-
sented “The Woman in White” from
Wilkie Collin’s novel of that name, Mrs.
Minnie J. Snow as Mrs. Hemans sang
sweetly a song from that author’s work.
Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, represented by a
symbol, Mrs. Browning, and with great
dramatic ability recited “Mother and
Poet” from her works. Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, very befittingly represented Eliza
R. Snow, giving selections from that
author. Mrs. Melissa Wilson, with white
gown and flowing hair, represented Per-
dita from Shakespeare, reading “A Win-
ter’s Tale.” Mrs. E. J. Stevenson, with
a beautiful rose, represented “Rose in
Bloom.” Nellie C. Taylor, in her quaint
and simple Quaker garb, pleasingly remin-
ded us of Lucretia Mott. Miss Olea Shipp
appearing as the “Bohemian Girl” played
beautiful airs from that opera. Miss Ellis
Shipp recited Longfellow’s “Birds of

