						SUSIE M. MORGAN.

[Column 3]
	R.S. LECTURE TO MOTHERS.
	In the beginning of the world God
placed man on earth to have dominion
over all the earth. He also gave him
woman, equally intelligent. It seems or-
dained that man should be at the head.
He is physically stronger, and to the wife
he is head, husband and protector on
earth. As a father he stands at the head
of the family.
	Close by him stands the wife, who is
to be a helpmeet, a comfort, and to be
mother; for no greater mission can be
given her than to be a mother.
	She is equally responsible for the prop-
er government of the children. It is her
right to walk shoulder to shoulder with
her companion in seeking knowledge and
intelligence.
	Truly if the husband is a man in every
sense of the word, the wife can be a
woman in every sense of the word also.
President Joseph F. Smith says: “A man
that is a true Latter-day Saint will make
a good husband; the same with the wo-
man—she will make a good wife.” He
has also said: “A man that will not live
up to his duties in the priesthood need
not demand obedience from his wife.”
	It is hard for the mother when the
father is indifferent to teach, guide and
direct her children in the path she desires
them to go. The same, or perhaps more
so, when the mother is indifferent. When
there is division at the head of the fam-
ily, it will surely prove instability of
character in the children.
	Children should be taught to respect
the right which the parents have to con-
trol over them, and respect their parents’
authority, by asking permission to go, or
to do anything in which they need coun-
sel and advice. Children who will do
this are the ones who will respect those
in authority away from home—the school
teacher, the Primary and Sunday-school
teacher, those in authority in the differ-
ent organizations of the ward—the bish-
op and the authority of God.
	Every member of the family should
have their rights respected; even the
youngest member should be taught not
to take brother’s or sister’s book. Broth-
ers or sisters should not take, borrow or
make use of anything which belongs to
another brother or sister without their
consent. For doing such things in their
absence or without consent will surely
bring disappointment, ill-feeling and an-
gry words. When the rights of each one
in the family are strictly regarded, the
children can be trusted everywhere they
go, “and the principles of honor and jus-
tice will be stamped upon their charac-
ters.”
	Ephesians 6:4: “And ye fathers, pro
voke not your children to wrath; but
bring them up in the nurture and admo-
nition of the Lord.”
	Oftimes parents offend their children
by a word or a phrase, saying, “Oh, you
fool!” or “You ain’t got any sense!” if
they did not do everything exactly right.
Children are sensitive, and their little


