GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The general conference of the Relief
Society of the Church was held on Thurs-
day, October 3, 1907, in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city, and was the
largest congregation in the forenoon ever
present at a morning session. The organ
was draped with the Society banners, and
potted plants and cut flowers ornamented
the stands, where the presiding officers
and speakers were seated.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith presid-
ed and made an address of welcome, that
won the hearts of her audience, as well as
their most respectful and earnest atten-
tion to every word she uttered in her dig-
nified and saint-like, womanly way.
	The music was excellent in every par-
ticular, the hymns well chosen, and those
who sang and played seemed to partake
of the lofty spirit of the sacred occasion.
	The sisters from a distance who report-
ed their work were pleasing and concise
in presenting the subjects with which
they had to deal, and the spirit of the
Relief society as it is understood by its
workers was embodied in the reports,
the teachings and instructions given.
	The afternoon session was still more
largely attended, the gallery as well as
the lower hall being filled with ladies. A
few brethren were present also, and the
congregation was favored with the pres-
ence of two of the Apostles, Elder John
Henry Smith and Elder George Albert
Smith, who each addressed the audience
on Gospel subjects, dwelling at some
length upon woman’s part in the great
plan of salvation, giving much credit to
the mothers in Israel for the labor already
accomplished, and urging upon the young-
er women to take hold of the work of the
Relief Society, and assist in the mission
of ministering to the sick and afflicted,
comforting the sorrowing and clothing
and feeding the hungry and destitute.
	The brethren seemed to realize the im-
portance and magnitude of this charitable
and philanthropic organization, and to
appreciate the fact that more of the
younger sisters are needed in this first
and greatest society of the women of this
Church.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells had been
given to speak upon at this afternoon
session “Reminiscences of President Em
ma Smith’s two counselors in the first Re-
lief Society organized.” Sarah M. Cleve-
land and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, there
was very little time and therefore only a
few points touched upon, but some items
may appear in the minutes of this interest-
ing conference at a later date.
	On Monday, October 7, 1907, a testi-
mony meeting of the General Relief So-
ciety was held in Barratt Hall, which was
filled with sisters, many of them from far-
off stakes of Zion, Mexico and Canada,
and some from foreign lands. It was a
very interesting meeting, and would be a
wonderful spectacle to women unac-
quainted with the lives and efforts of the
women of Zion. At this meeting Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith presided, and
bore her testimony of the truth of the
Gospel, and of the divine mission of


Joseph Smith the Prophet of the Lord,
with whom she was personally acquaint-
ed and could speak from her own experi-
ence and observation. Sister Emmeline
B. Wells offered the opening prayer.
Excellent music was also furnished for
this meeting, and the spirit of the Lord
was manifest throughout the services, the
only drawback being that there was not
sufficient time for many who desired to
speak.
	At 2 p. m. in the Assembly Hall, on the
same day, Monday, Oct. 7th, the quinquen-
nial meeting of this great society of wo-
men, that extends all over the word (al-
most in every land and clime) was held
and important business transacted. This
meeting is for all the women of the So-
ciety and all who are interested in it even
if they are not members. A brief review
of the work of the Society at home and
abroad is given and much that is not so
well known to the sisters generally is
gone, over that the members may know
what is being accomplished and for what
purposes, and how the means entrusted 
to the General Society is used for the pub-
lic welfare of the society at large.


