[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		TETON STAKE.
	The Teton Stake Relief Society Con-
ference convened at Driggs June 23, 1907.
President Sophia E. Rigby presiding.
	One visitor, Mary C. Lambert from the
General Relief Society. There were seven
of the Stake Board present, fifty local
officers and members and a good repre-
sentation of the Priesthood.
	After the preliminary exercises Presi-
dent Sophia E. Rigby delivered the open-
ing address and welcomed those present.
The following wards were then reported:
	Victor, by Counselor Vilate Wilson.
	Pratt, by President Hannah Stevens.
	Driggs, by Counselor Mary Fairbanks.
	Clawson, by President Mary Henry.
	The reports showed that an interest
was being manifest by the Relief Society
workers.
	Sister Mary C. Lambert of the General
Society spoke earnestly of the interest
that should be manifest in the rising gen-
eration; and the storing  of grain was
spoken of and the necessity of it, also of
the divine mission of Joseph the Prophet.
	President Sophia E. Rigby gave an out-
line of the work being done in the stake.
	President D. C. Driggs of the Teton
Stake spoke of the spirit of inspiration
that comes to Latter-day Saints while lis-
tening to an account of the life and labors
of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	J. D. Kilpack, jr., of the Stake Presi-
dency spoke of the great work that was
done by the Prophet Joseph.
	The afternoon session of the conference
was the largest since the stake has been
organized.
	The first was a lecture, “Noblest Mis-
sion of Woman,” by Lizzie H. Durrant.
	Ottilia Holden sang a Solo, “Show me
the Way O Father.”
	Haden was reported by Prest. Martha
Little; Cache by President Mary A.
Swensen.
	Irma Wilson and Ella Rigby sang a
Duet, “Come Holy Spirit.”
	Counselor Susie M. Wilson of the Stake
Board spoke of having the spirit of our
work to make it a success.
	Counselor Sylvia M. Thompson spoke
of the importance of Relief Society work
and of the broad field that it covers.
	Emma Fairbanks gave a lecture, “He-
redity and prenatal influence.”
	Mary C. Lambert gave valuable in-
structions for the advancement of Relief
Society work; also spoke of spreading the
truths of the Gospel and of the nobleness
of the missionaries who are in the field.
	Patriarch John Leatham spoke of the
marriage covenant and the pattern the
young people should follow, the Patriarch
also gave a blessing to the Relief Society
workers.
	Elder Geo. S. Young of the Stake Pre-
sidency spoke of the frivolity that has
taken hold of some of the young people.

