[Column 2]
Kenilworth,” in cream-colored gown, be-
decked with birds and feathers of brilliant
hue. Miss Pearl Russel as “Little Red
Riding Hood” rendered a charming little
solo from that opera. After the character
delineations, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder read a
summary of the year’s work of the Club;
the progress made and improvement
sought.
	An ovation was tendered to Honorary
President E. B. Wells, and President Ellis
R. Shipp, by the Reapers and Press Club,
on Saturday evening March 16th, 1895,
on their return from the Council of Wo-
men, lately convened in Washington.
They met many people of “classical edu-
cation and opportunities for the highest
culture in the land. Our representatives
attended the banquet given on the 75ths
anniversary of the birth of Susan B. An-
thony and spoke of the cordiality extended
to the Utah women. Mrs. Wells also spoke
of her visit to the beautiful home of Mrs
May Wright Sewall. Many memories were
revived, some pleasant, some disappoint-
ing, especially that of dear Aunt Zina,
who had failed to meet with them in the
National Council.
	The Club Minutes of April 3, 1895, make
mention, that the city that day was full
of excitement on the suffrage question
and on motion of Mrs. Wells, the meeting
was resolved into a meeting to discuss
Woman Suffrage, the question then
under discussion at the Constitutional Con-
vention. The speakers were Mrs. E. B.
Wells, C. C. R. Wells, Lizzie Wilcox,
Mrs. McLachlin and Richard R. Shipp,
H. A. Badger, Mary A. Clark, E. J. Ste-
venson, R. M. Fox, Helena Madsen of
Gunnison, Annie T. Hyde, Lydia D.
Alder, Mrs. Kister, Ella W. Hyde, Misses
Claire Ferguson, Laura Hyde, Florence
Alder, Ellis Shipp, and Miss May of Nephi
Dr. Ferguson, and M. A. Caine. All
pledging themselves to work for the Wo-
man Suffrage plank in the State Con-
stitution.
	The Club anniversary, of 1897, held at
the residence of Dr. Ellis R. Snipp, when
the following was the personel of its of-
ficers.
	Honorary President E. B. Wells, Past
Presidents E. R. Shipp and Ruth M. Fox.
President elected Dr. Romania B. Pratt
Rebecca H. Doolan and Helen Vilate
Kimball; Vice President at Large, Isabel
Cameron Brown, Secretary Mary A. J.
Lambert, Amiee Schiller, Assistant Secre-
tary Lydia D. Alder Cor. Secretary, Hattie
B. Harker Treasurer.
	No more unique and perhaps even
beautiful gathering was ever held in this
most hospitable home, than the one of
this year. The present was forgotten in
the past, and those of other years thronged
this favorite spot. I quote from the mi-
nutes.
	The ladies who were most conspicuous,
were first Lydia D. Alder as the sweet
poet Lydia H. Sigourney in lace mantilla
and appropriate costume throughout.
None guessed her character, even when
she read “Napoleon’s Epitaph” from that

[Column 3]
gifted author. On request of the ladies,
Mrs. Alder walked through each room
that all might see her, before she reveal-
ed, the character she represented. Lucy
A. Clark as Hypatia, in flowing raiment,
artistically draped discussed philosophy
like an ancient sage. Dr. Orielle Curtis
as Portia, with cap and gown looked like
a Doctor of Laws, in very deed, when
quoting “The quality of mercy is not
strained,” she appeared like a real Greek
heroine. Rebecca H. Doolan, with soft
white hair, and fine lace cap read from
the poems of the gifted Eliza R. Snow.
Ruth M. Fox was simply charming in her
Quaker bonnet, and severely plain garb
carrying in her hand the scroll of the Dec-
laration of Independence and giving the
pathetic, yet eloquent description of the
scene when the brave little woman made
herself forever famous on that memorable
night of the fire at the capitol. Ella .W
Hyde, in Puritan dress read one of Louise
M. Alcott’s sunshiny poems in a delight-
fully characteristic way. Edith R. Lovsey
read Longfellow’s poem to the flowers, in
a most charming style, while bedecked
becomingly in fresh and beautiful flowers.
She made a pleasant picture to the eye
and her voice is full of sweetness. Helen
Vilate Kimball as Lady Elizabeth Mon-
tague, made quite an imposing appear-
ance, richly dressed, her tall stately figure
showed to good advantage as a woman
of rank and title. No one was able to
guess her identity, not even when she
read quotations, from this celebrated
author’s “Letters from the Dead.” Of
this lady who was born 1720 and died in
1800 the poet Cowper said:
	The birds put off their every hue
	To dress a room for Montague.
	She was even more popular than her
illustrious kinswoman, Lady Mary Wort-
ly Montague, whom it is said suffered by
the comparison of her letters with those
of Lady Elizabeth.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt, in heavy, rust-
ling silk, her beautiful hair in natural
curls so exactly like the portrait of Felicia
Dorothea Hemans as we see her in books
with fan and reticule and scroll, making
a complete study of the character, read
one of the sweetest poems written by 
this favorite author. Miss Pearl Russell
as Lady Claire, in simple gown with a
rose in her hair, repeated a verse from
that charming poem of Tennyson’s, and
looked as timid and as sweet as the Lady
Claire herself possibly could had she
stepped out from the poem. Aimee
Schiller, handsomely dressed, represented
the “Scarlet Letter,” in a style new and
unique, and her reading was excellent, as
well as her chosen selection.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, with a beautiful
dress of black silk entraine, and flowing
sleeves of glistening white that might
have been wings of angels, so airy and
fluttering they were, carrying in each
hand a luxuriant bunch of chrysanthe-
mums, and accompanied by her two
daughters, Olea and Ellis, on either side
as maids of honor, made a splendid pic-
ture of the Queen of Sheba, and as she
gave the quotation held up first the bou-
quet of real flowers, and then the arti-
ficial, asking which was the true and
which the false, and adding the half had
not been told, overcome as it were with
the splendor and magnificence of Solo-
mon’s Court.
