[Column 1]
hearts are easily hurt. There are chil-
dren who are accustomed to hear such
language; but what kind of children are
they? Children who are ding-donged at
and receive a volley of harsh words for
every little mistake, can never rise or at-
tain to that high standard of morality to
which they might if better examples were
set before them.
	“What we want our children to be
we must be also,” is a true saying.
“Bring them up in the nurture and ad-
monition of the Lord” is the same exhor-
tation to parents in this day.
	Doc. and Cov. 68: 25-28: “And again,
inasmuch as parents have children in
Zion, or in any of her stakes which are
organized, and teach them not the doc-
trine of repentance, faith in Christ the
Son of the living God, and of baptism,
and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the
laying on of hands when eight years old,
the sin be upon the heads of parents;
	“For this shall be a law unto the in-
habitants of Zion or any of her stakes
which are organized;
	“And their children shall be baptized
for the remission of their sins when eight
years old and receive the laying on of
hands.
	“And they also shall teach their chil-
dren to pray and to walk uprightly before
the Lord.”
	Children at any age should be obedient
and regard their parents rights. Nor
have they any right to dictate to their
parents what they ought to do or ought
not to do. How beautiful to see or hear
a young man or woman asking counsel
or advice of the parents the same as
when they were young children. Surely
these are examples in every Latter-day
Saint home. The Savior, having such
great wisdom and knowledge that He
could astound the lawyers, doctors, and
wise men with questions and answers,
doing the will of His Father in heaven,
yet was He obedient to His earthly par-
ents, for “He was subject unto them.”
	“Honor thy father and thy mother” is
one of the commandments given to Moses
for the children of Israel. With this
commandment was a promise given,
“that thy days may be long upon the
land.”
	God is the Father of our spirits, and
we should honor Him by keeping His
commandments. If we do this we shall
love Him. Next to God we should hon-
or our parents, those who gave us birth,
watched over us with tenderness and
love, have cared for us and trained us up
in our youth and we being the most help-
less beings God had created while in in-
fancy, therefore need the utmost care.
	How dangerous for a young man or
woman to judge their parents, finding
fault with them, saying if they had done
better or differently we would have been
better and could have done better. But
we do not know of their opportunities or
their environment.
	Shakespeare says, “We think our fath-
ers fools: our sons will no doubt think us
so.”
	Those parents who came here for
the gospel’s sake to this blessed land,
where saints and prophets are, and can
draw inspiration from the beauties of na-
ture—from vale and mountain,—have
placed their children in a better way of
advancement. There is no excuse for
those who have the gospel which teaches

