RELIEF SOCIETY WORK ABROAD.
	One of the members of the Board of
Directors or General Board of the Relief
Society as it is perhaps better understood,
Sister Romania B. Penrose, is now so-
journing abroad, and since she left home
last January she has been doing active
work among the sisters in Great Britain,
Ireland and Scotland. Sister Penrose
has assisted President C. W. Penrose and
other Elders, presidents of conferences
or local brethren reorganizing nineteen
branches of the Relief Society and in re-
organizing some others.
	In the Irish conference there are two
branches, one in Dublin with Wilhelmnia
Baker president, and Babette Retz sec-
retary. In Belfast, Maud Ditty, presi-
dent, Agnes Anderson secretary. In
North London, London Conference R. S.
I. R. Crafts Pres., A. M. Stevens Sec.
In the Liverpool Conference there are
two branches of the Relief Society organ-
ized the Blackburn, Sarah Grayson Pres.
Elizabeth Ann Haworth Sec. Accrington,
Mary H. Grimshaw Pres. Ada Watson Sec.
In the Grimsby Conference there are two
branches of the Relief Society. One in
Hull, Annie Elizabeth Crafts Pres. Lillian
Maud Thomas Sec. In York, Alice Day
Pres. Gertrude Harrow Ainslie Sec. Lei-
cester Branch, Nottingham Conference
Sarah Jackson Pres. Lilian B. Hunt Sec.
Bristol branch, Bristol Conference, Mary
Ann Jane Caswell Pres. Ada Capel Sec.
Sneffield branch, Sheffield Conference
Annie Eliza Shaw Pres. Annie M. Wright
Treas. Name of Sec. not glven. Worksip
Sheffield Conference Lucy Fretwell Pres.
Rosa Cockings Sec. Hyde Branch Man-
chester Conference Sarah Jane Rowbottom
Pres. Edith Morgan Sec. Norwich, Nor-
wich Conference Elizabeth Southgate Pres.
Alice Bunell Sec. From all of these we
have received statistical and financial re-
ports, but these are all newly organized
and it is due to Sister Penrose efforts that
these reports have been sent in.
	There is also a financial report and let-
ter from Berlin, and we just received in the
Millennial Star report of a Relief Society
organized at Stratford more recently.


Stratford branch, London Conference
Relief Society organized October 8, 1907
Leah Beus Pres. Bessie Dreapes Sec. Re-
lief Society organized in Harthford, New-
castle Conference, Elizabeth Allison Pres.
Margaret M. Spark Sec. In Carlisle New-
castle Conference Relief Society organized
Fannie Walker Pres., Miss Sarah J. Wet-
tersal Sec.


