[Column 2]
us right and truth, and by keeping the
commandments of God we will find no
time to find fault, and especially with
our parents. We will not feel to do so.
	No greater honor can children bestow
upon parents than by walking in the
paths of virtue, truth and righteousness.
It will fill their souls with joy and peace,
and would call down heaven’s choicest
blessings; then we could expect our chil-
dren to fill our lives with joy and peace.
Surely this would prolong life, and the
promise could not help but be fulfilled,
“that thy days may be- long upon the
land which the Lord thy God giveth
thee.”
	“Charity begins at home,” so says the
old proverb.
	If we are charitable at home we can ex-
pect to be elsewhere. Charity is a virtue
which raises the soul nearer heaven.
	Corinthians 13th chapter. Charity in
all its forms is to be admired, and when
practiced in the form of love and for-
bearance it is beautiful. If we take
charity in the form of almsgiving, it
should be encouraged, but we may be lib-
eral in almsgiving and not be charitable.
We may set a table and decorate it beau-
tifully, and place rich food before our
guests, but if we are not charitable, it is
not true hospitality. If we see every
fault and failing with those with whom
we associate and make remarks on them,
we are wanting in true charity.
	If ever there were a people whom the
Savior could not tolerate, it was the hyp-
ocrites, who said and did things just to be
seen of men. But he said, “Verily, veri-
ly I say unto you, they have their re-
ward.” As the old story goes, of the
rich man who passed by, and refused a
poor, ragged girl who asked him for a
penny to buy bread as he went to church
to give in his thousands of dollars to the
poor. How the people praised him and
put his name in the papers in big head-
lines and said how generous and liberal
he was. Truly he got his reward—the
praise of men. We have reason to be-
lieve there are many instances of true
charity throughout the world where there
is distress, sickness and poverty, where
there is no one to see, only the individu-
als themselves, and no one to record. But
we believe, as the song says, “Angels
are silent notes taking of every action,”
etc.
	Deut. 15: 11: “The poor shall never
cease out of the land,” therefore I com-
mend the saying, “Thou shalt open thine
hands wide unto thy brother, to the
poor, and to thy needy in thy land-” The
scriptures are full of such admonitions.
There are many ways of helping the
poor. We can see the wisdom of our
Father in inspiring the Prophet Joseph
Smith to organize the Relief Society.
Truly much good has been done, and we
cannot estimate the great good which
will be done through the organization.
Then we have a chance to give fast-offer-
ings or donations to the poor, and by pay-
ing an honest tithing the poor need not
want.
	In the sayings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, by O. B. Huntington. On one
occasion the Prophet was asked the
meaning of the words of the Savior,
“Make to yourselves friends of the mam-
mon of unrighteousness, and when ye fail
they may receive you into everlasting
habitations.” Brother Huntington mar-

[Column 3]
veled at the words; this is as near as he
remembers them:
	“That every man will fail some time.
Be charitable and liberal with your sub-
stance, for it is only a secondary consid-
eration—the use you make of it is the
primary consideration. You may do good
to some one who is down today, and who
will be on the top of the wheel when you
are down; for every man will fail some
time.”
	Charity obeys the Lord’s commands:
“Do unto others as you would have them
do to you;” “Love thy neighbor as thy-
self;” “Thou shalt not bear false witness
against thy neighbor.”
	Charity is self-restraint, self-forgetful-
ness. It does not willingly listen to the
voice of slander, and if compelled, does
not repeat it. Charity is characteristic
of a true woman and gentleman. Polite-
ness born of charity, is gentle, engaging
in manner, and shows in every action of
a true and refined woman, while lack of
charity and vulgar manners are looked
upon with contempt and such persons are
neither loved nor respected. 
	It is necessary that mothers train their
little ones to practice little acts of char-
ity and kindness, te be polite to brothers
and sisters as well as to visitors or strang-
ers. Mothers should not encourage tale
bearing or to speak unkindly of their 
playmates., for allowing these feelings to
take root in their little hearts unchecked,
the seeds of future uncharitable feelings
are sown. Teach them lessons of self-
denial and unselfishness. Point out to
them to do to others as they would be
done by, and to return good for evil. It 
may seem hard, but with patience and
perseverance, good results will be seen,

