[Column 2]
President Susannah P. Booth presiding,
present besides the stake Relief Society
officers, President Oleen N. Stohl and W.
C. Horsley of the Stake Presidency.
	After opening exercises singing, prayer,
etc., Prest. S. P. Booth was thankful to
her Heavenly Father for His blessings to
her, and she had a desire to do her duty.
Said the prophecies that had been given
were being fulfilled. Spoke at some
length on the Word of Wisdom; said if
we tried to live up to the commandments
the Lord had given us, He would bless
us, urged the sisters to pay their tithes
and offerings; also spoke on the storing
of grain; had visited some of the associ-
ations and found a good spirit prevailing,
was pleased with the interest that was
being taken in the “Mothers’ Work.”
May the Lord bless us and help us to do
our duty.
	Annie C. Johnson, President of the
first ward, Brigham City, reported the
Mothers’ work, which was doing nicely.
Felt to thank the Lord for the blessings
He bestowed upon them in their labors.
Charlotte W. Boden, President of the
second ward, Brigham City, said the
teachers visit quite regularly; spoke on
the Word of Wisdom, and felt if we
could live it, it would be for our good.
	Emma Lee, President of the third
ward, Brigham City, said they had a good
per cent who kept the Word of Wisdom;
gave many good instructions on the same.
	Prest. Sarah J. Wilde of the fourth ward,
Brigham City, reported the teachers visit
quite regular, and were doing a good
work, were doing well in the Mothers
Work. Spoke some on the Word of Wis-
dom. Felt well in the Relief Society
work, and in the work of the Lord; urged
all to try and overcome evil, and try to
do all the good they could.
	Sister Torbinson of Snowville: they
had a good band of sisters, were doing
well with their Mothers Work; had no
poor, but were all working and trying to
do their duty to the best of their ability.
	Stake Counselor W. C. Horsley was
very pleased to see so many present, and
find the attendance so good, 18 associ-
ations being represented out of 20. Took
up the subject of Word of Wisdom, urged
all to go to their Heavenly Father and
ask his help to keep it. Spoke on having
watchful care over our children and to
set them good examples.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. af-
ter singing and benediction.
	Afternoon session, after opening exer-
cises Prest. Booth said we had a little
change to make in the stake board, Sis-
ter Lettie Forsgreen having resigned as
corresponding secretary. Sister Lula B.
Call was chosen and sustained to fill the
vacancy.
	Prest. Sophia Anderson reported the
Bothwell society as doing very nice-
ly, but on account of so much sickness
had not been able to meet regularly; had
a good band of sisters who were trying to
do their duty, thought the Word of Wis-
dom was kept by the majority of the peo-
ple.
	Sister Louisa E. Peters said her health
had not been the best, but thought trials
sometimes come upon us to test us, spoke
on the conveniences today, but thought
there was also more temptations to lure
our children away; felt we should pray
for them that they might not go astray.

[Column 3]
She asked the Lord to bless the Relief
Society that it may grow in strength and
good works.
	Prest. Sophia Larsen of East Garland
wondered if we appreciate the many good
things we hear from time to time, felt we
often make excuses for not attending
meeting. Spoke on the Word of Wis-
dom, felt it was for our good to keep it,
and receive the promise given if we keep
the commandments of the Lord.
	A hymn entitled “The Lord Imparted
from Above,” etc., was sung by Sister
Martha Ensign.
	Sister Emma Pratt, President of the
Scandinavian association, said we all have
a testimony that the Gospel is true and
bore her testimony to the truth of the
same; the Scandinavian sisters were still
having good times together, they pay their
donations, had emigrated recently two
sisters; when they hold their meetings
their instructions were Word of Wisdom,
tithing, and all things for the good of the
sisters.
	Counselor Emilia D. Madsen spoke on
the Word of Wisdom, felt pleased with
the visiting committee, thought it would
do much good in getting the people out
to meetings; said a few words on the
Mothers work, and on her early experi-
ence and the trials she had to endure for
the Gospel, said when our spirit is full of
energy we want to do good, spoke against
girls picking up acquaintances with
strangers; felt it was a privilege to live in
this day.
	Sister Lula B. Call read a letter ad-
dressed to the sisters from Sister Wells,
the General Secretary, explaining why the
missionaries could not come.
	Counselor Mary J. Harding knew the
Gospel was true, spoke on the Word of
Wisdom; thought we could keep it if we
tried. She had enjoyed many blessings
and was trying to overcome her weak-
nesses, urged keeping our children home
at night, referred to the Mothers work
and the good it was to our young moth-
ers.
	A duet was nicely rendered by Misses
Emma Stohl and Severena Madsen enti-
tled “Springtime of the Soul.”
	Stake President Oleen N. Stohl was
pleased at the attendance of the confer-
ence, felt the sisters were setting a good
example for the future, hoped the officers
of the stake were united, urged them to
hold their board meetings and have a
thorough understanding on all things that
was to come before their meetings. Gave
his experience on reading at home, spoke
on dress and the disposition of our wo-
men to keep in fashion. Spoke on the
Word of Wisdom, read the revelation on
the same; said if we obey the laws of God
we would secure our blessings. God
bless the sisters in this noble cause and
give you strength to overcome evil. 
	Prest Booth felt the time had been
well spent, said a few words on the Word
of Wisdom, had faith in her Heavenly
Father and knew he would help her to
overcome her weaknesses. Prayed the
spirit of this conference might rest upon
all of us and that we might take it home
to help us in our labors. Asked the bless-
ings of the Lord upon all.
	Singing “How Firm a Foundation.”
Benediction by Sister Sadie Stohl.
