[Column 2]
harmony with the Priesthood, she said
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith and Sis-
ter E. B. Wells sent their love to all the
sisters. We should have a system in our
work, spoke of the training of our chil-
dren. train them to pay their tithing; she
felt to bless the people out here in the
country.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde felt it a great
privilege to meet with the brethren and
sisters, what a great privilege we as
mothers have to bring sons and daughters
into the world, we should be cheerful in
our homes, The teachers should encour-
age the sisters in their homes, we should
endeavor to overcome our faults. Spoke
of the Mother’s work, we should ask the
Lord to help us in the bringing up of our
children. Spoke of the Nurse Class,
encouraged the sisters to take that course;
we should give our children practical
knowledge; spoke of the woman’s build-
ing; said they were going to join with
the brethren in building the house; en-
couraged the young mothers to come to
our meetings and not be lay members;
asked the blessing of the Lord on all.
	The afternoon session, at 2 p.m., Presi-
dent Eliza C. Hale presiding. Singing,
exercises as usual. Sister Eliza Thomas
reported Central Relief Society in good
condition. First Counselor Julia A. Pond:
“We as sisters have a great mission to
perform; she had been visiting the stake
with the other officers and enjoyed her
trip. The mothers have a great work in
our homes; the best way to get the Spirit
of the Lord is to attend our meetings, it
will help us to live our religion and teach
it to our children.”
	Second Counselor Louise Corbet said
we are thoroughly united as a board;
enjoyed her labors; asked the Lord to
bless all.
	President L. S. Pond felt by looking
over the congregation that the officers
would feel encouraged to see so many
present; spoke of encouraging love and
peace in the home; be congenial with our
companions: in the rearing of our sons and
daughters in the way they should go;
school ourselves to continue onward,
spoke of cleanliness in the home; the sis-
ters were engaged in a good and noble
work, felt to encourage them in helping
the poor and the sick, hoped the Lord
would help the new officers and all that
took part in this conference.
	Sister Emma Woodruff bore her testi-
mony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
She knew that the Prophet Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God, she was person-
ally acquainted with him. We should
make our homes attractive and go with
our sons and daughters to their places of
amusement; bring them up to honor the
Priesthood; hoped we would all be true
and faithful; asked the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde urged the
sisters that gave reports to speak loud so
all could hear. We should be prompt
and have a system in our work; spoke on
punctuality, the officers should endeavor
to be at all the meetings. We should
beautify our homes; spoke of order in
our places of worship, and on the training
of children; show our children that we
love them, and encourage love in the
home; spoke of the noble work of moth-
ers; we should live the Word of Wisdomand teach it to our children, set a good
 example to those around us.

[Column 3]
	Brother Joseph T. Pond was pleased to
meet with us in this conference. we
should reduce to practice all the good
things we have heard today; we should
prepare ourselves for the life to come;
spoke of love and harmony in the home,
there is a crown of glory in store for the
mothers, we should be a light to the world
and not follow the fashions of the world.
May the Lord help us to keep His com-
mandments.
	Prest. Eliza C. Hale endorsed all that
had been said. Closed by singing “High
on the Mountain Top.” Conference ad-
journed for three months.
		CATHERINE SORENSON, Sec’y.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of
Alpine Stake was held in the Lehi Tab-
ernacle July 19th, 1907. President Re-
becca Standring presiding. Sisters Annie
T. Hyde and Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Priscilla P. Jennings of the General Board
were present.
	After the usual opening exercises Pre-
sident Standring greeted the sisters and
reported the Stake in good condition but
still room for improvement. Thought
some of the wards were in a sleepy con-
dition, but hoped they would soon wake
up to their duties.
	Reports were given from three wards,
all doing well; quite a number of young
mothers joining.
	Teachers give good reports and poor
are relieved and sick visited.
	Sister M. A. Webb of Lehi, Stake Mis-
sionary was pleased to report her labors
in Lehi. There are many good sisters in
the wards, many aged ones and some
scattered but they are trying to live their
religion. There are many influences to
combat and trials to meet, Tried to im-
press the mothers with the necessity of
training their children. Felt we were
blest above all women on the face of the
earth.
	Sister Rachel Hunter, Stake Missionary
of American Fork, was proud of her stand-
ing and position, desired to carry a good
influence and always enjoyed her labors.
The sisters as a rule are interested in the
work but many are tied at home with
large families.
	The address of President Bathsheba W.
Smith to the Relief Society was read by
Sister Farnsworth.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde spoke of Pre-
sident Smith, her love for the sisters and
her devotion to Temple work. Told the
teachers to go to the sisters houses and
tell them they are needed in the Relief
Society, and help and encourage them to
attend the meetings. Urge the young
women to attend the lectures which will
be a benefit to them. These pioneers
have been faithful for so many years, and
it will be found in the records when we
pass away. Get your children together
in the morning and pray with them, it
will pay you, for your children will be
benefited and you will be blest. We
should always have a cheerful counten-
ance and live up to all our requirements;
we must overcome evil with good, for we
are the chosen of the Lord and we are to
become saviors on mount Zion.
	Instrumental music by Sister Kirkham.
	President Stephen L. Chipman thought
that nowhere on the earth could we meet
a congregation of women with the same


goodness and purity of heart outside of
the Latter-day Saints. We know their
work and we appreciate their help and
understand their motives.
	Sister Jennings said: This is a broad
work. You must be charitable, make good
use of your time; this is our only chance
for doing our work, so let us be diligent
and do all we can. Let us train our
daughters to be pure, let us guard them
with all our might, let us bear our trials
with patience and prayer.  There is much
to be done and when we are in the line
of our duty we can do more than when
we take a day off.
	Sister Jennings said, we are the best
women on the earth and let us sustain
each other and sustain and uphold our
president.
	After singing and prayer conference ad-
journed until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session: President Standring
presiding. After the usual exercises, Pre-
sident M. A. Andersen reported Lehi 1st
ward. President Serena McKinney, Fair-
field branch. President Kate Allred Lehi
2nd ward.  All gave good reports, are
united and in harmony with the bishops.
	Sister Clarke read a sketch of the life
and labors of Sister Mary S. Hindley, 1st
president of the Relief Society of Ameri-
can Fork.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley.
Many people in the old world are longing
to come to this land, but when they get
here do we make them welcome? We
should call on them and assist them all
we can and show that we are not afraid
to associate with them as members of the
Church. Felt to testify to the sketch of
Sister Hindley’s life, knew that she had
been a mother to many besides her hus-
band’s children.
	President A. J. Evans testified that the
Relief Society is more diligent in their
labors than any other auxiliary organiza-
tion in the Church. Rejoiced in the gospel
and felt to sustain the efforts of the sist-
ers.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde. We are
working for the good of the people, let
us sustain every move which is for the
purity and advancement of the people.
Keep in touch with your children, join
them in their sports, go with them, we
want to throw every safeguard around
our children. Thought missionaries
should be sent to every district in every
ward. Prayed for a blessing on all.
	Sister Farnsworth knew the Alpine
Stake was a progressive stake in every
way. Spoke of the WOMANS EXPONENT,
our patriotism should go out in support
of this paper, and she urged the sisters to
take it. We have every thing to encourage
us, every thing in an educational way.
Our sons should be instructed in Relief
Society work for some may have to help
organize the Society in foreign lands.
	President James H. Clarke. Our Relief
Society is the strongest auxiliary organi-
zation in the Church. Our sisters know
that the Lord blesses their labors. We
are like children, we have to be constant-
ly reminded of our duties. Bore testi-
mony to the gospel, even the Savior could
not find favor with the people, the same
with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Singing, and Benediction by Counselor
Harriet Jacobs.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
