A TRIBUTE.
	To the memory of our dear sister
			JANE E. WHITE.
who departed this life August 16th, 1907, after a
few days illness. She was the daughter of John
a[-]d Jane Davi[-] and was born May 29th, 1863 at
Bountiful, Davis County, Utah. In connection
with her parents she removed to Arizona in 1878
and resided in St. John’s twenty four years, en-
during the hardships incident to the settl[-]ng of a
new country. L[-]ter, in 1905, she came to Basalt,
Idaho, where she has ever since resided.
	November 26th, she was married to John Elbert
White in the St. George Temple.
	She has been the mother of eight children. She
leaves a devoted husband and seven children (six
sons and one daughter), a father and mother two
brothers and three sisters to mourn her untimely
death
	Physically she was in a delicate condition, which
makes it all the more sad. All was done for her
relief that lov[-]ng hands could do, but to no avail,
God had called and she obeyed the summons.
	She was a faithful Latter-da[-] Sa[-]nt—she passed
peacefully away, in full assurance of a glorious
resurrection.
	The funeral services were held August 19th,
they were conducted by Bishop Wm. Dye. Many
beautiful florals were placed upon the casket by
her many dear friends expressive of their sorrow
and grief over her departure
	The speakers bore testimony to her integrity to
the gospel, and their remarks were consoling in
their nature.
	Sister Jane has been a member of the Relief
Society of this ward since her arrival. She was
chosen as 2nd counselor to President Nellie D.
D[-]e, April 25th, 1907. She magnified her calling,
although it was of a short duration, she won the
respect and love of her sisters.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Be it resolved that we the sisters of the Relief
Society of the Basalt Ward do most deeply mourn
the loss of so faithful a sister, and feel it is hard
to become re[-]onciled to her death, but are willing
to bow in humble submission to our Father’s will.
	Be it resolved that we extend our heart felt
sympathy to her husband, children parents,
brother and sisters, and ask God to bless them,
and make them feel that He is their friend.
	Be it further resolved that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes of the Relief Society, a copy
given to the bereaved family, of the deceased, and
a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				NELLIE D. DYE, President,
				MARY LYONS, 1st Counselor,
				MARY E. FREEMAN, Secretary.


