[Column 1]
ture on “Charity,” given by Mrs. Annie
Young.
	President Colton said we want to place
some of our work before you. Our work
is not only in one way but many, feeding
the hungry, clothing the naked, nursing
the sick, comforting the mourners, we also
inform ourselves along gospel lines, in-
vited the young sisters and brethren to
visit the Relief Society often.
	A Solo was rendered by Brother David
Mainwaring.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon was glad to
continue the meeting, said that we could
accomplish more by organized Society
work than by individual effort, that the
Prophet Joseph Smith foresaw the good
that could be done by organization when
he gave the first $5.00 gold piece into the
Relief Society and said “what I do here-
after for charity I will do through the
Relief Society.” We are proud of our
organization, again advised the mothers
not to send their girls from home to work,
without every precaution being used.
	Sister Zina Young Card said, we know
the Relief Society was organized for good,
spoke of the work of the Relief Society
in carpeting the tabernacle which had
just been dedicated to the Most High,
advised parents to help them children to
get the land and keep it as God intended
it for our inheritance for the people who
seek God and His righteousness and not
those who live for self alone.
	Stake Counselor Don B. Colton said
if he would become a member of woman’s
organization it would be the Relief So-
ciety, spoke of the spirit of the members,
and the care for the sick, spoke on chari-
ty and its influence, and the work of the
Relief Society.
	Patriarch Samuel R. Bennion said if
we have anything to give to the poor give
it to the Relief Society, for mothers
should be the best judge of the childrens
wants, said do not wear one sister out
because she is willing to work, but call in
the young sisters to take care of the sick.
	President Colton thanked all who had
taken part in this conference.
	Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Conference adjourned for three months
after the Benediction.
			MARY B. HENRY,
				Assistant Secretary.
 
