Guide Lessons for April
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in April)
CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE MOSAIC DISPENSATION
A. Theological.
The Ten Commandments. (a) The First Commandment: "Thou shalt have no other God before me." This is a demand for sincerity, a whole-heartedness of devotion to God. A devotion that is born of implicit confidence, love unalloyed and unwavering loyalty.
(b) The Second Commandment: "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image." This command was an edict against idolatry. There are evidences that the children of Israel during the four centuries of their sojourn in Egypt had become tainted with Paganism, and this injunction was particularly suited to their condition. This commandment proclaimed against having anything between God and those who worship him. Images interfere with spiritual contact.
(c) The Third Commandment: "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain." This is an official call, a demand for reverence. It is a proclamation of the sinfulness of profaning the name of a spiritual Ideal. All such utterances are psychologically degrading as well as socially offensive. Profanity is nothing less than a fit of vocal intemperance.
(d) The Fourth Commandment: "Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy." This is a double commandment, it includes the "not-do" and the do and provides for six days of industry and one day of spiritual activity, with emphasis on the latter.
(e) The Fifth Commandment: "Honor thy father and thy mother." In its completeness this part of the Decalogue contains a direct requirement with a promise. Disobedience to parents is prominent as a forerunner of banishment from the Land of Promise.

(f) The Sixth Commandment: "Thou shalt not kill." This commandment is doubly protective in its nature. It protects the right of all to live and it guards against the crime of all crimes, the unnecessary taking of life. It is a low state of individual or national existence that places a low valuation on human life. Careless killing is a close second to contemplated killing.
(g) The Seventh Commandment: "Thou shalt not commit adultery." "Next to destruction is depletion," a universal truth.
(h) The Eighth Commandment: "Thou shalt not steal." This mandate forbids the unlawful taking of anything, an act which advertises a poverty of character far worse than that of beggary. It is an injunction upon which rests the protection of all property rights. To take more than one's share of a group possession is a form of theft.
(i) The Ninth Commandment: "Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor." This commandment pronounces against perjury, slander, and pernicious gossip. Lying about other people has not unfittingly been called character cannibalism. No wonder the Lord forbids it.
(j) The Tenth Commandment: "Thou shalt not covet." As the first commandment demands perfect sincerity, so the last one requires absolute honesty. It might well be said that one who desires or contemplates unlawful possession hath already committed theft in his heart.
The Decalogue is not only a great contribution to religion but also a great contribution to government.
B. Miscellaneous. (a) Returning good for evil. "If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt surely bring it back to him again." (Exodus 23:4.)
(b) Returning help for hate. "If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his burden, and wouldst forbear to help him, thou shalt surely help with him." (Exodus 23:5.)
(c) Love of neighbor. "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." (Leviticus 19:18.)
C. Literary. (a) The orations of Moses acknowledged to be equal to any of the orations of Demosthenes or Cicero. (Examples: Deut. 9 and 28.)