[Vol13 | February 1926 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Debts and Payments Orson F. Whitney]
Debts and Payments By Orson F. Whitney
I heard of a man who died heavily in debt. He had property enough to pay his debts, but instead, willed it to his family, leaving his creditors out in the cold. A friend of his had a dream—he dreamed that he died and passed into the Spirit World. There he met the man who had left his debts unpaid, and said to him: "This is a fine country you are in." "Yes," answered the other, "but it cannot compare with the country over yonder." "Well, why don't you go there, then?" "I cannot," was the reply, "I must stay here and pay my debts."
Whether or not this is a true story, it teaches a true principle, and is not successfully met by the argument that money and property play no part in the spirit life. Right and wrong play a part there, and things temporal typify things spiritual. Let no man suppose that he can avoid the just payment of an honest debt by dying (as to things earthly) and crossing the border line between Time and Eternity. His debts will go with him to judgment. It were wise to pay them here, if possible, and escape the accruing compound interest. Better a toilsome life on earth, than a debtor's prison or any other restraint upon progress in the Great Beyond.
Everything we get we pay for, in one way or another, in this world or the world to come. We never get something for nothing. Every debt must be paid, every account squared. Anything else would be unfair, unjust, violative of the great fundamental principle of Right, without which God could not be God, and existence would cease to exist. Eternal Justice is the rock upon which rests the very throne of Deity.
True, a debt may be forgiven. That is Mercy's work. That is the work of the Savior, whose mission was made necessary by man's inability to save himself. But Mercy cannot rob Justice, nor Justice, Mercy. Each claims its own and must have its due. There are debts temporal and debts spiritual. It matters not—the foundation principle is the same in all. Every debt must be paid, either by the debtor himself, or by someone able and willing to pay it for him. Only in this way can the equilibrium of the moral universe be maintained.
The first thing required of fallen man was payment of the debt incurred by the fall. A divine law had been broken, and it had to be mended. The scale of Justice, unbalanced by Adam's act, had to be repoised. The sinner must answer for the sin. And yet the fall was essential, a necessary part of God's wondrous plan for the peopling of the earth and the education, through mortal experience, of a host of immortal spirits, his sons and daughters who, by obtaining bodies upon this planet, were to become souls, capable of endless increase and exaltation.
To achieve this beneficent aim, Adam fell. He became mortal that the human race might be; and death, spiritual and temporal death was the penalty for his transgression. He had incurred a debt which, if unpaid, would doom him and his to everlasting banishment from the Divine Presence. All was lost unless something were done to ransom what Death held in pawn, to nullify the evil effects of the fall, and conserve its good results for the benefit of humanity—in short, to pay the debt due Eternal Justice. Adam could not pay that debt, nor could Eve, nor could any mere mortal among their descendants. They could suffer "the ills that flesh is heir to—Mother Eve attained the peak of human suffering by bringing forth children in sorrow and pain. They could pass through the Valley of the Shadow, and undergo the temporary separation of body and spirit that men call death: but they could not bring a dead world to life again. They could not pay the debt. But One who could pay, and was willing to pay, did pay, giving his own life to liquidate the heavy obligation. Christ, in dying, burst the bands of death, and made it possible for a redeemed race to go on to perfection, according to the divine plan of which Adam's fall was a part. But while Adam could not save himself nor the race that sprang from him, he could do something—something more than to "earn his bread by the sweat of his brow," than to toil and suffer for the development of his soul—the compensating result of all hardship and tribulation. And what he was able to do was required of him.; Obedience to the Gospel was the main requirement. He had to believe in Jesus Christ, who was Jehovah in the heavens, where Adam was Michael, before either had tabernacled in the flesh. Having faith in the foreordained Redeemer—revealed to him at the DEBTS AND PAYMENTS 61 very beginning—Adam repented and was baptized, that he might receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, which maketh manifest the things of God. But that was not all. He had to go on, treading every round of the ladder let down from Heaven for his salvation and the salvation of all who followed in his footsteps. Adam paid nothing for his redemption—his resurrection from the grave. Christ paid for that, and made it a free gift to all mankind. But Adam paid, so far as he was able to pay, for all else that came to him; and we, his descendants, are in a like situation. Our great debt having been paid for us, because too heavy for us to discharge, we must merit all else by our obedience to God's commandments. We get nothing from him except upon this principle. All blessings, whether spiritual or temporal, come as the reward of obedience. The successful merchant, banker, farmer, or artizan succeeds because he is obedient to law, the law governing his particular vocation. But he may fail in other respects, because of his disregard of other laws. The Lord sends his rain and his sunshine upon the just and upon the unjust; but that does not prove them equally worthy in his sight. The unjust (unjust here) are entitled to such blessings as rain and sunshine can give, because of their obedience in a former life. There they were not unjust. They "kept the first estate," thus winning the right to be "added upon," to be placed where the sunshine and the rain could reach them. But the higher blessings, the blessings of the gospel, are only to be had by obedience to the gospel. One cannot get into the Church of Christ by being a good farmer or an expert banker. It takes more than the skill of a mechanic to unlock the door leading into the Kingdom of Heaven. Our Savior set the great example of obedience, and it was the secret of his sublime success. He could not have redeemed the world had he not been obedient to his Father's will, even to the drinking of the bitter cup prepared for him. Nor can we avail ourselves of his redemptive sacrifice, unless we surrender our wills to him, as he surrendered his will to the Father. Christ is entitled to our obedience. He died for us. He purchased us with his own blood. Consequently we are his—we belong to him. He is "the Captain of our souls." Fallen man was redeemed unconditionally, but he is not saved and glorified unconditionally. God forgives sins, mercy cancels debts, but only upon certain conditions. The sinner, the debtor. Must do something to deserve such consideration—something more than to believe, repent, and be baptized. He must be merciful to those who are in debt to him. He must be lenient with his debtors. Even as God, the great Creditor, has been lenient with him. 
 How easy to go into debt, and how difficult at times to pay. We cannot injure another without injuring ourselves, without contracting a debt; and sooner or later it must be paid, or cancelled by forgiveness. When men or women speak slanderous words to the injury of their fellows, or seek in any manner to build themselves up by pulling others down, they are going into debt, and must meet it at the great day of account, if not before. Did not the Savior say that men would have to answer for "every idle word" spoken by them? He also warned his disciples against evil thinking, another way of going into debt, into the bondage of sin Every debt must be paid, every wrong righted. We reap what we sow, and the meastire we mete unto others will be measured to us again. "Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy." It behooves us, therefore, to offset the debts that we owe, with debts owing to us that we are willing to forgive, leaving the isste with him who said: "Judge not, that ye be not judged," "Vengeance is mine—I will repay," "I the Lord will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required that you forgive all men." Vainly do we ask our Heavenly Father to forgive us our trespasses, if we forgive not those who trespass against us. Those who will not forgive, hug to their hearts "the greater sin." Hate reacts upon the hater, souring and embittering the soul. ''Malignity drinks the greater part of its own poison." An expression of faith is required from every applicant for divine blessings. Prayer is such an expression. We pay for what we ask by asking—in part at least. If we do not ask, and still receive, the payment will have to be made in some other way. From those to whom much is given, much is required. This applies not only to money and merchandise, but to time, talents. Opportunities, and all other advantages. Those who commune with angels, and have visions or other great spiritual manifestations, must expect trials of their faith commensurate with such rare privileges.;; "Repent and be baptized * * * and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." Thus Peter to the Pentecostal multitude. But no such promise was made to those who would not repent and be baptized. Only the obedient could claim the blessing. We purchase forgiveness with repentance. We pay for salvation in the coin of obedience. Our Father in Heaven is just, is generous; but he will not force his favors upon anyone. If we wish him to draw near to us, we must first draw near to him. "Ask and ye shall receive. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be opened unto you." We must help ourselves if we would receive help from Heaven DEBTS AND PAYMENTS 63 And all because of that great underlying principle which demands the guid pro quo, one thing for another, eternally preventing us from receiving that to which we are not entitled. We cannot get something for nothing. The sick who call for the sling of the Church and solicit lessings at their hands, should be given to understand that their own faith, and not merely the faith of those who administer to them, is the power that heals. Except in the case of infants and others incapable of exercising faith, it is the sick person's confidence in God and the Priesthood that is the main factor of tle healing process, in most cases. The Savior's mightiest miracles were wrought among those who had faith. He "did not do many mighty works" in certain places, "because of their unbelief," because of their failure to do what Justice demanded. "Thy faith hath made thee whole." Such were his words to those who were healed by him. They had to pay, pay in advance, to the extent of their ability to pay, for the blessings that they desired. He did the rest, the part that they could not do. Had their faith been lacking, his power could not have been put forth so justly, so mightily, in their behalf. And the same is true as to his ministering servants. Shift now the argument to the question of eternal rewards The glorified planets are God's kingdoms, the "many mansions'' referred to by the Savior. To each of these kingdoms a law is given, and in order to inherit any one of them, men and women must obey the law pertaining to that kingdom, whether it be celestial, terrestrial or telestial. In other words, they must pay the price of admission, and they will be admitted only where they belong. There is such a thing as vicarious obedience, whereby debts are paid, not by those who contracted them, but by those willing and able to discharge them in the debtor's interest. The Savior's atonement is the great example. But I now refer more particularly to the work done in temples for the departed, that they also may profit by the great payment of the original debt. Those aided in this manner, however, must prove worthy of what is done for them, or that vicarious work will avail them nothing. Baptism, confirmation, and other ordinances may be performed on earth in their behalf; but if they do not bel eve and repent in the world to which they have gone, they cannot reap the benefit. Their debt will remain unpaid. Those able to pay their debts, but who fail to pay them while on earth, will find themselves in a different class from those who never had the power or opportunity to pay. Millions are in Heil at this moment, paying their debts there, because they did not pay them here, because they did not repent, did not turn from
