Y. L. JUAB STAKE.
The Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of Juab
Stake convened in the meeting house at Nephi,
at 2 p.m., Mrs, Matilda E. Teasdale presiding.
After singing, prayer was offered by Elder H.
McCune, and the choir sang, “Earth with her
ten thousand flowers.” Minutes of the 20th
quarterly conference were then read and ap-
proved; also reports from the several Y. L.
Associations in the Stake.
Opening remarks by Prest Teasdale, suited
to the occasion, and calculated to awaken an
interest in the young sisters to improve and
obtain a knowledge of those things which
would exalt, refine and purify them. Song,
“The Gipsy’s Child,” sung by one of the young
ladies in a very touching manner. The Manu-
script paper, entitled, “The Young Ladies’
Journal,” was read by Miss Louie Udall in a
very clear voice, and with excellent expression.
“The Organ Builder” was eloquently recited.
Miss Schofield, President Nephi Y. L., made
some excellent remarks, and urged upon the
young the necessity of improvement.
Mrs. E. B. Wells addressed the meeting on
the subject of education and the cultivation of
the highest and holiest attributes of the human
soul.
Mrs. E. S. Taylor, President of the Central
Board of Y. L. M. I. A., occupied most of the
afternoon in giving instruction to the young
ladies. Wanted them to feel the importance
of attending their meetings, and inproving
their time and talents, and puttiug their talents
to usury, and the reward would be sure.
Urged the necessity of a testimony to the truth
of the Gospel; if they could obtain that, they
might be able to stand the trials of the times
in which we live and which are prophesied of.
Advised them in reference to choosing a com
panion for life; said, “Let the man you choose
be a man of God, who will be pure; make
virtue and purity more than your life. If you
do not choose such a husband, you will be
more or less contaminated; ‘Evil communica-
tions corrupt good manners;' cultivate polite-
ness, courtesy, kindness and love.” .Recom-
mended cheerfulness; liked to see the young
glad and joyous, but the house of God should
not be desecrated by trivolous behavior. “Do
I know this Gospel is true? Yes, I know it
beyond the shadow of contradiction.”
Urged the girls to read the newspapers and
study politics; spoke of the suffrage, and said,
“When women have the right to vote they will
not have many rum-holes, because they natur-
ally are pure. Learn housekeeping; make
home and father and mother happy; cultivate
flowers; encourage a love for the beautiful; I
wish I could set you all down in Golden Gate
Park in San Francisco, to behold its beauty; it
is a most beautiful sight and you would enjoy
it.” In regard to marrying outside the Church,
said to the girls, “Don’t let it be the case with
any of you.” Encouraged the young to be
married in the house of the Lord and begin
life right. “Perform well all duties; see that
[column 2]
your reports are correct and in readiness at
the proper time.” Spoke of the Stake Fund;
that each branch should give 50 cts a year in
to the Stake Treasury for public purposes,
stationery and other uses; thought the young
ladies should have a separate organization,
but conjoint meetings might be held monthly;
knew it was the feelings of the brethren and of
Sister Snow Smith, that they should be or-
ganized separately.
Prest. Teasdale expressed her pleasure in
seeing so large a congregation, and that there
had been such good instruction given; hoped
all would renew their diligence, and labor
faithfully in the time to come.
Officers of the Stake Y. L. M. I. A. and of
the several Associations in the Stake were
unanimously sustained, and conference was ad-
journed for three months. Singing, “Utah,
the Queen of the West.” Prayer by Patriarch
J. G. Bigler.


