[Vol4 | May 1917 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 277 Tahiti an Mission. The following very unique and interesting report and letter with the accompanying picture has just been received by the General Board from the distant Society Islands: REPORT OF THE RELIEF SOCIETIES OF THE TAHITTAN MISSION FOR THE YEAR ENDING DEC. 31, 1916. Paid for charitable purposes $ 78.37 Days spent with the sick 135 Special visits to the sick 217 Families helped 2 Bodies prepared for burial 2 Burial clothes prepared 4 Number of visits of Mission Officers 40 Assistance to Missionaries $ 36.00 Funds raised for special work $ 102.37 Membership: Officers 14 Members • •....• 71 Total 85 Admitted to membership during the year 18 Died 1 Number of meetings held 173 Average attendance '. 67 Percentage attendance 80 Number of Relief Society organizations 4 Papeete, Tahiti, Jan. 3, 1917. Dear Sisters: A report of the Relief Society work done in the Tahitian M:ssion has never before been compiled, but after reading the annual report for the year 1915, in the Relief Society Magazine, I determined I would collect what material I could, so that the small part of the work done by us would help swell the report for the year 1916. It is a very difficult matter to get a report of the work done by the organizations in this field, due to the fact that many of the members are unable to keep a record and also on account of the scattered condition of the people of the islands and the very uncertain boat service here. A boat calls at some of these islands perhaps once or twice during the year. The lady missionaries of this field have never before visited the islands of the Tuamotu Group, where most of our branches are, on account of these conditions, and consequently have never really become acquainted with the work being done there, excepting" what thev have learned from the Elders. Mrs. I 'cutis R. ance Rossiter at OctoberandConference the Relief in Society members Hikuere, S. I. in attendI have made it a point since coming to this mission to attend all of the semi-annual conferences in order that I might meet all of the sisters personally and instruct them in the. nature of their work. And I assure you it has been with no small effort and personal discomfort. However, the experiences I have had besides being unique and intensely interesting which could not have been gained in any other way, have been extremely beneficial to me and are such that I shall never forget them. For instance, in going a distance of three hundred and fifty miles to our last April conference, we were twenty days at sea on a tiny trading schooner that had no accommodations for passengers, and we were obliged to lie.on the deck floor, night and day unsheltered either from the burning tropical sun or downpour of rain; we had the alternative of crowding down in the small, dark, ill-smelling hold with as many natives and Chinese as the place could contain. Many times Sister Margaret Compton, the only other lady missionary in this field, and I have lain all night on the deck floor unsheltered in a downpour of rain, and in several inches of water. We also ate the coarse ship food we were able to get with our fingers from the tin plates off the dirty deck floor. Although the accompanying report is small and not entirely complete it will give you an idea of the work being done in the Tahitian mission and the difficult circumstances under which we have to labor. At Papeete which is our headquarters we have no organized Society as there are very few Saints here, but Sister Compton NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 279 and I have become members of a sewing circle conducted by the chief Mayor's wife, and we devote one day a week sewing articles of clothing for the Tahitian soldiers' families. I am sending you a picture of myself and part of our Relief Society sisters, taken at our October conference in Hikuere, thinking perhaps it would interest you. Thanking you kindly for remembering us each month with a copy of the Relief Society Magazine, I remain sincerely. Your sister in the Gospel, Venus R. Rossiter. Hawaiian Mission. We are delighted to receive the following information from President Samuel E. Wooley, regarding the work of the Rekef Society in the Hawaiian Mission: "1 hope that you will pardon me for not writing to you before as Ipromised I would, but I have had so many things on hand that I have not had time to write to my own folks as I ought to have done. This has been a very busy year and there have been so many things that have required my personal attention, that I have just about run down at times, but I have not forgotten that I ought to tell you that we are alive here in the mission and that the Relief Societies are doing something. I have not been able to get out in the conferences as I hoped that I would, neither have 1 been able to write to them; we have been so short-handed in the office. I have to plug along with my writng in the old fashioned way, and do the most of it after others have finished for the day. No one can quite appreciate this unless he has been in the same position or has been here and has seen things as they are. I may be slow and incompetent, but I am at it for all that is in me. Now, dear sister, I will call your attention to a few items from our report ending 1916: Number of branches in Hawaiian Mission 28 Membership, 964 Donations. 1916 $1,095.45 Paid for charitable purposes. 642.33 Resources 2,818.32 No indebtedness. Days spent with sick 439 Special visits to sick 396 "To raise the funds they have donated, the Relief Society members have made qudts and mats, fans, and all kinds of handy work, and have taken up a subscription among their own members. Besides what they are doing in a financial way. they are 
 doing a lot of good for the cause, and they look after the sick and the poor, as well as take an active part in the general work of the Church. They are interested in Temple work now that it is at their very door. They are studying the principles of the gospel and what it takes to become good Latter-day Saints. We are getting along very well with the building, but have been held up of late on account of the strike at the coast cities, and now that it is settled there is so much freight piled up on the wharfs at San Francisco that the steamers take that most needed for food and feed for animals, so that we may be delayed a little from time to time on things that we cannot help. We feel happy in our work and hope to go on faithfully to the end. "Oh yes, by the way, it is twenty-one years since I landed at Honolulu with my wife and four children to take charge of this Mission under the direction of the First Presidency. I am just as willing and happy over it as 1 was then; true. I wish conditions were so" that I could have my family with me, but that seems out Day. Relief Society of Honolulu Marching in Parade on Katnahaha of the question at present. I have never asked, nor do I want to, "How much longer, oh Lord?" for I know that the Lord does things well if we are willing- — we have been that so far. thank the Lord. What little has been accomplished during these twentyone years I give the praise to the Lord in whose hands we all are. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 281 "May the Lord bless Zion, for we on Hawaii are a part of it. I feel that the next great step will be to make this one of the Stakes of Zion. Truly Zion is growing. "Peace be with you in your good work, I am, "Your brother in the gospel, "Samuel E. Wooley." Honolulu Relief Society Laying Floral Wreaths or Leis on Kamahaha's Monument. Sunday School Nursery Department. The Sunday School of the Second ward of the Liberty stake, vSalt Lake City, has introduced an innovation in the form of a Nursery Department. The object of this department is to care for babies in arms and to furnish entertainment for children up to the time they are able to enter the Kindergarten Department, thus leaving the parents free to attend the Parents' Class and to take an active part in the Sunday School in general. These babies and young children are cared for by competent nurses and assistants and they enjoy the hours spent in their own comfortable little department as much as their parents enjoy the profitable discussions in the Parents' Class. It will be seen by the illustrations accompanying that the nursery room is large and airy and well equipped for the entertainment and amusement of children. Sunday School Nursery I^cpartmcnt of the Second Ward, Liberty Stake. Sunday School NOTES FROM THE FIELD. ' 283 The equipment consists of small beds and cradles, walkingchairs, swings, dolls, balls, story books, small rockingand straight back chairs, etc. Pillow slips and bed linen are changed weekly, and everything is kept strictly sanitary. All furniture is painted with white enamel and a suitable carpet covers the floor — all appointments tending to make it an inviting playroom where the children feel at home. The Superintendency of the Sunday School make it a special point to invite the mothers of babes and young children to attend the Parents' Class and to place their children for care in this cozy nursery — and it must be gratifying to these officers to see how many there are who take advantage of this opportunity. The Bishop of this enterprising ward is Elder Heber C. Iverson and the members of the Sunday School Superintendency are: Charles E. Rose, Superintendent; David Athay, First AssistantH. ; B. Elder, Second Assistant. This original and progressive idea, we feel sure, will appeal to the officers of our ward Relief Societies and to the members who are mothers of small children, as very practical, and it opens to view a new field of possibilities in the way of increasing our Relief Society membership. We need the young women in the Relief Society work and the young women need the Relief Society work. Is it not possible that this plan, which works so successfully in a Sunday School might be introduced into ward Relief Societies? In the event of this or a similar scheme being adopted in a ward organization, and in case young girls could not be procured to care for the children, the mothers themselves might, with profit to all concerned, alternate in performing this service. Two members could easily attend to a dozen or more children and leave the rest of the members free to enjoy the meeting. Think this over, ward workers. Change of Address. The mission headquarters of the Eastern States Mission has been removed from 33 West 126th Street, New York City, to 1140 Bedford Avenue, Brooklyn, New York. All correspondence and Relief Society matters connected with this mission will please take notice of this change. Miss Margaret Edward, President Eastern States Mission Relief Society.