[Vol4 | May 1917 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Topics James H. Anderson]

Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Count Zeppelin, German inventor of the dirigible airship, died in March, in Germany. The American navy, by call of President Wilson, is to be recruited to its full strength, for war. FRANCISCO Villa, Mexican bandit and revolutionist, has begun a new campaign for 1917. More trouble for Americans. A snow avalanche near Hailey, Idaho, in the latter part of February, killed 15 men and injured 15 others. The Jews in Russia have been granted the privilege of free speech and other reforms, by the new government there. China has broken diplomatic relations with Germany, and is arrayed on the side of the Entente Allies, so far as sympathy is concerned. On. Fields in Wyoming are reported to have yielded 60,- 000,000 barrels of oil during the past twelve months. Winter, long and severe, has exacted a heavy toll in losses of animals in the intermountain region, this year, through lack of food. The "MoEWE,"a German auxiliary cruiser.has made another successful raid in the Atlantic, returning home after destroying 27 merchant ships. Germ \n SUBMARINES sank 368 ships at sea during February. Tn March they were less successful, and a number of the submersibjes were sunk or captured. INFANTILE PARALYSIS is said to be checked materially by washing the throat and nostrils with warm water in which a little table salt has been dissolved, according to a recent discovery. Poisonous belladonna plant, rooked and eaten in mistake with spinach, caused the death of Samuel P. Richards, his wife and three children, and a hired man. at Carey, Tdaho. in March CURRENT EVENTS. 269 Cuba suffers by the recent revolution there to the extent that the sugar production of the island for 1917 will be less than two-thirds of that for 1916. Wheat found in the cliff dwellings in Utah and planted at Hagerman, Idaho, is said to have been grown successfully, and to produce kernels about double the size of the ordinary grain. Russia changed its form of government in a single day, in March, and with the loss of only a few hundred lives. Emperor Nicholas was deposed, the Grand Duke Michael appointed a regent, and a republic put under way. Carranza, the Mexican president, sent a note to the United States, advising this government how to stop the war in Europe. The advice was declined with thanks— a suggestion that the Mexican president might try his hand at home. Submarine chasers, light and swiftly-moving craft, are being used with good effect against the heretofore successful submersibles, and the United States has ordered the building of a large fleet of those little vessels, for defense. The United States' is at war with Germany by the latter's Teuaction in killing American citizens on the high seas. The tonic operations caused Presiden t Wilson to change the date of the special session of Congress from April 16 to April 2. A disastrous storm at Newcastle, Ind., on March 10, caused A simthe death of 23 persons and injured more than 150 others. in the same State, on March 23, reilar storm at New Albany, sulted in the death of 33 persons and the injury of 100 others. * A rah road strike of the four brotherhoods of trainmen was On the latter called for March 17, then deferred to March 19. Adamson law date the United States Supreme Court declared the there was no valid, giving the trainmen all they asked, hence strike. ed possible Mexico at war with the United States is render of more than in the near future by the presence in that nation seen militar y service, and who are said 10 000 Germans who have connec ted with the Germa n spy system m the United to have been States for two years past. by Veterans of Indian wars in Utah have been recognized grante d pensions. The the United States government, in being 
 Utah delegation in Congress has worked dilgently for this the past twelve years, at last being rewarded with success. Mecca and Medina having been taken from Turkey by the new kingdom of Arabia, and Bagdad having been captured bv the British army, all the great cities of Islam in Asia, except Constantinople, have been wrested from Turkey. Danger to industrial plants, railway tunnels and bridges, etc., in the United States, from German plots and spies, was considered by President Wilson with being so great that on March 24 and 26 he called out the national guards of the several states to afford necessary protection. The European war lines underwent considerable change in March, the Germans being compelled to retire from about 1,000 square miles of French territory on the west front, which they had occupied for two and a half years; while in Asia the Turks were defeated and driven back long distances by both British and Russian forces. Abdication of Kaiser Wh helm as a possibility has brought out, in discussion, the statement from German sources that the crown prince of Germany, and not the kaiser, actually is responsible for Germany engaging in the great war, and is especially chargeable with having caused the adoption of the ruthless submarine warfare which brought the break with the United States. A British army captured the citv of Bagdad from the Turks in March, and made a considerable advance northward in Mesopotamia, while in Western Palestine another British army advanced to within 40 miles of Jerusalem. There now remains to be made a connection between these two forces ami the English naval and land forces at Cyprus, and the Turkish coast there, upon the accomplishment of which the Turk will be no longer in control of any part of the Holy Land or country adjacent thereto; while Britain will have a great overland route from the Mediterranean coast to India, as well as the route via the Suez canal — which seems to be the object of the Mesopotamia!! and Syrian expeditions, and may have still other and more far-reaching consequences.