[Vol4 | May 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature - Old Time Tales]

From the great cliffs that make our craggy canyon walls. mugh pieces of stone are constantly being broken by the frost and other elements. These rock fragments, falling down the mountain side, frequently reach the stream below. Such as do are washed and tumbled along by the water, and ground against other stones in the creek bed until they become smoothed and polished boulders, which are often scattered over the valley floor. In some such way as this, have old tales been carried down the stream of time to us. In days of long a,go people used to sit around their campfires and hearthstones and tell stories to entertain one another. These stories, no doubt, were at first crude — tough-hewn in style; but many of them were interesting enough to be remembered and passed from father to son, and son to grandson down the ages. In being thus told and retold, they were often changed and polished into charming tales. Literature is full of these old stories. No one knows who first told them; but such story-tellers as /Esop and the Grimm brothers have made collections of them; authors like Shakespeare, Scott, Irving, Tennyson, and many others have woven them into their choicest tales. In most of our writings are allusions to them. It is, therefore, quite impossible to understand literature fully without knowing something about this literary heritage of the past. Old time tales come to us in many different forms; but for purpose of studv thev mav be classified as follows: 1. Nursery Tales; 2. Fairy Tales; 3. Fables: 4. Parabks; 5. Myths; 6. Legends. The Nursery Tale is familiar to most mothers. Such stones as "The Three Little Pigs." "The L:ttle Red Hen." "The Gingerbread Man," and "Three Billy Goats Gruff," belong to this group. They might be called "repetition tales," since certain parts in them are constantly repeated. The nursery tale is a simple little tale created mainly to amuse children, generally it is harmless and usually very interesting for little folk. Fairy tales are also well known. These are fanciful creations, having in them fairies, elves, and other supernatural characters that work in magic ways to help or harm human folk. Cinderella is one of the best illustrations. "Jad* and the Beanstalk" isanother fairy tale. The fairy in this story represents the boy's ambition. The giant, whom Jack outwits and finally overcomes, typifies brute force. Many a lad like Jack has conquered by skill and intelligence some such giant. The fairy tale generally carries some hidden meaning; but its chief appeal to the young lies in the charm of the story itself. The fable is a story told to point a moral. Its chief characters are usually animals personified. A good example of this sort of tale is found in THE HARE AND THE TORTOISE. A conceited hare, as you remember, once challenged a tortoise to a race. The tortoise accepted and they started. Of course, the swift hare bounded easily ahead of his slow rival; but when half way to the goal, the hare, thinking that the race was easily his, lay down to rest. He fell asleep, while the tortoise, plodding steadily on, finally overtook and passed the foolish hare. When ihe sleeper awoke, he found the old tortoise at the goal. The moral is plain: Slozv and steady wins the race. Usually the meaning of the fable can be put like this, in the form of a proverb. The parable differs from the fable in that it seldom, if ever, has animal characters; and its meaning cannot so readily be given as a maxim. Some spiritual truth, some lesson of life, is illuminated or explained by the parable. The illustration at the beginning of this lesson, wherein the stones in the stream are compared with old time tales, is a kind of parable. The following interesting parable is one which Benjamin Franklin was very fond of telling to his friends. It is called THE PARABLE OF ABRAHAM. "And it came to pass after these things, that Abraham sat in the door of his tent, about the going down of the sun. "And behold, a man. bowed with age, came from the way of the wilderness, leaning on a staff. "And Abraham arose and met him, and said unto him, 'Turn 
 in I pray thee, and wash thy feet, and tarry the night, and thou shalt arise early on the morrow, and go on thy way.' "But the man said. 'Nay, tor I will abide under this tree.' "And went into the Abraham pressed tent, and him greatly Abraham baked: unleavened so he turned,bread, and they and they did eat. "And when Abraham blessed not God. he said unto him. 'Wherefore dost thou not worship the most high God?' "And the man answered and said. 'I do not worship the God thou speakest of. neither do I call upon his name; for I have made to myself a god, which abideth in my house, and provideth me with all things.' "And Abraham's zeal was kindled against the man. and he arose and fell upon him, and drove him forth into the wilderness. "And at midnight God called unto Abraham, saying, 'Abraham, where is the stranger?' "And Abraham answered and said, 'Lord, he would not worship thee, neither would he call upon thy name; therefore have I driven him out.' "And God said, 'Have I borne with him these hundred ninety and eight years, and nourished him and clothed him notwith standing his rebellion against me; and couldst not thou, that art thyself a sinner, bear with him one night?' " Where Franklin obtained this interesting parable is not known. It sounds very much like a Biblical story, but it is not found in the Bible. The myth is a fanciful story dealing with nature, which is often personified in the form of gods and goddesses, and other supernatural beings. A good illustration of this story is THE STORY OF CYLTIE. Cyltie was a little sea nymph who would often come to the top <>f the waves and ride over them in her sea-shell chariot. One day Cyltie saw Apollo, the sun god. coming out of his beautiful home, curtained by clouds, to make his daily trip across the sky. Clytie was so charmed with the sun god that she stood on the shore gazing all day in admiration. When the sun sank behind the clouds in the west, Clytie turned to go back to her sea-cave home; but she could not move. Tier little toes had turned into tiny brown rootlets, her dress was changed to green leaves, her pretty round face was sunburnt from gazing at the sun so long; and her golden curls were changed to the golden petals of the sunflower. Clvtie's sunflower children, may still be seen gazing upward at Apollo the sun god, as he drives his fiery chariot across the sky. Such fanciful old tales seem strange or even foolish to us today; yet they often have a charm about them, especially when one sees the beauties of nature through them. In days of long ago, before the Bible came with its higher truths, these myths were believed. People worshiped Apollo, the sun god, Diana, the moon goddess, and the other deities about which such myths were told. It is necessary to know something of the myths in order to interpret clearly many Bible sayings, such as, "Thou shalt have no other gods before me." The legend is a traditional tale in which fact is mixed with fancy. It often deals with historical characters. The story of Robert Bruce and the spider, and of Washington and his hatchet, are good examples of the legendary story. The "Tales of the Wayside of the stories Inn," tobybeLongfellow, found thereis ismade calledup largely of legends. One THE LEGEND BEAUTIFUL. It tells of a monk who went to the top of the church tower to pray. In the midst of his fervent devotions he was blessed with a vision of the Savior. As he was gazing in adoration on the heavenly personage, the poor and the sick people began to knock and call down at the convent gate for the monk to come and minister to their needs. He hesitated a moment, undecided whether to go and do his daily work, or remain and worship his Lord. But his sense of duty made him forego the blessed privilege, and he rose and went to help the needy. When he returned, the Savior, still there awaiting his return, said to him, "Hadst thou staved I must have fled."The poet reinforced the lesson of the legend by adding these lines: "Do thy duty, that is best, Leave unto the Lord the rest." Out of these old time tales comes many a beautiful truth. They are often charming in their interest. The best of them should find place in our lives. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. Explain how the old time tales have been produced and brought down to us. 2. Name six different kinds of folk tales. 3. Read in some primary book used by school children, a nursery tale, a fairy tale, and a fable. 2QX 
. Be ready to tell some parable from the Bible. 5.