[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | September | Issue: 3 | Title: Why I Hate the Liquor Traffic | Author: Unknown]

WHY I HATE THE LIQUOR TRAFFIC.
	Speech by Governor  Hanley before the
Indiana Republican Convention, April 1908.
	Personally I have seen so much of the
evils of the liquor traffic in the last four
years, so much of its economic waste, so
much of its physical ruin, so much of its
mental blight, so much of its tears and
heartache, that I have come to regard the
business as one that must be held and con-
trolled by strong and effective laws. I bear
no malice towards those engaged in the busi-
ness, but I hate the traffic. I hate its every
phase. I hate it for its intolerance. I 
hate it for its arrogance. I hate it for its 
hypocrisy. I hate it for its cant and craft
and false pretense. I hate it for its com-
mercialism. I hate it for its greed and avar-
ice. I hate it for its sordid love of gain at
any price.
	I hate it for its domination in politics. I 
hate it for its corrupting influence in civic
affairs. I hate it for its incessant effort to
debauch the suffrage of the country; for the
cowards it makes of public men. I hate it
for its utter disregard of law. I hate it for
its ruthless trampling of the solemn compacts
of state constitutions.
	I hate it for the load it straps to labor’s


back, for the palsied hands it gives to toil;
for its wounds to genius, for the tragedies of
its might-have-beens. I hate it for the hu-
man wrecks it has caused. I hate it for the
alms-houses it peoples, for the prisons it
fills, for the insanity it begets, for the count-
less graves in potter’s fields.
	It hate it for the mental ruin it imposes
upon its victims, for its spiritual blight, for
its moral degradation. I hate it for the
hearts it has broken. I hate it for the mal-
ice it has planted in the hearts of men—for
its poison, for its bitterness—for the dead
sea fruit with which it starves their souls.
	I hate it for the grief it causes womanhood
—the scalding tears, the hopes deferred, the
strangled aspirations, its burden of want and
care.
	I hate it for its heartless cruelty to the
aged, the infirm and the helpless; for the
shadow it throws upon the lives of children,
for its monstrous injustice to blameless little
ones.
	I hate it as virtue hates vice, as truth
hates error, as righteousness hates sin, as
justice hates wrong, as liberty hates tyranny,
as freedom hates oppression.
	I hate it as Abraham Lincoln hated slav-
ery. And as he sometimes saw in prophetic
vision, the end of slavery and the coming
of the time when the sun should shine and
the rain should fall upon no slave in all the
republic, so I sometimes seem to see the
end of this unholy traffic, the coming of the
time when, if it does not wholly cease to be,
it shall find no safe habitation anywhere be-
neath “Old Glory’s” stainless flag.


[Column 1]
