[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | September | Issue: 3 | Title: In Memoriam | Author: HELEN M. SPERRY,]

			IN MEMORIAM.
	The following letters of condolence were
sent by the Waterloo Ward Relief Society
after the severe losses sustained by two of
its members, one losing within two weeks a
husband and beautiful daughter, and the
other her husband.

Dear Sister Goss:—
	We, the officers, and members of the Re-
lief Sociesy desire to express to you our
heartfelt sympathy in the double loss that
has recently come to you. We realize dear
sister that words are but feeble, in giving
comfort in this hour of great trial, for well
we know that only He, who guards the lilies
of the field can give you that comfort and
support, which you really need at this try-
ing time and He will, we promise you, if
you but go to Him in humble prayer.
	In the passing away of Brother Goss,
whose life was already well spent, and who
had for so long been a great sufferer, we feel
sure you can acknowledge the hand of our
Father. And how thankful we mothers
should bo when we can see our loved part-
ners laid peacefully away, after years of en-
deavor, full of faith in Jesus Christ, and the
Gospel so dear to us all.
	On he other hand the loss of your dear
Louise must indeed be hard for you. Not
only her sweet, loving, unselfish influence
will be missed by you, but the substantial
financial aid she has been able, through her
untiring efforts as a nurse, to give you.
Truly it does seem that the young, loving,
useful children might be spared to comfort
and bless the parents as age creeps upon
them in return for the many sacrifices made
by them. But God knoweth best. We must
bow in submission to His will and surely
He will not fail in making up to those who
trust Him that which now must seem an
aching void. Thank Him that you still
have other children who will rally round
you perhaps as never before, to take the
place in a measure of her now gone

[Column 2]
beyond. And when the question “Why”
comes, as it often will, read long and ponder
the words of Isaiah 37, wherein he says,
the righteous aro taken from the evil that is
to come. Surely Louise, in all her purity is
one of these. Your husband too, now sing-
ing songs of praise with her, in mansions
far beyond would not return, nor would we
call them back. God bless and comfort you
dear Sister. May the dying words of your
beloved husband that, we your sisters keep
you busy in the Relief Society work, find
echo in your soul, that you may always be
with us in our glorious cause is the earnest
prayer and desire of your sisters
			HELEN M. SPERRY,
			MARIA S. LIDDLE,
			MARTHA THOMPSON,
		Presidency Waterloo Relief Society.

Dear Sister Burrows:—
	In the recent trial that has come to you,
in the passing away of your beloved part-
ner, and husband, we the sisters of the
Waterloo Relief Society desire to express
our sympathy and love for you as a fellow-
worker among us for many years. And we
say God bless and comfort you in your afflic-
tion. And we promise you He will. May
your own bodily suffering cease, and may
peace and joy fill your soul. May you live
yet long—so long as life be desirable unto
you—to do much good. And may you be
privileged to meet with us again—none will
be more welcome. And may your hours of
loneliness be filled by earnest contemplation
of the word of God, and the glorious wel-
come that will await you when united in the
great beyond with your loving and devoted
husband, who perhaps even now, is prepar-
ing for you an heavenly abode at his side.
	In much love we subscribe ourselves
					Your Sisters
			HELEN M. SPERRY,
			MARIA S. LIDDLE,
			MARTHA THOMPSON,
		Presidency Waterloo Relief Society.


[Column 1]
