place of a Seer. (John 4:19). Then follows the woman's declaration of her sincere belief in the Church to come which was followed by his declaration of who he was: "I that speak to you am He." The woman forgets her material interests and with the missionary spirit puts her whole self into the work of spreading the news of her discovery of the new Well; the fountain of eternal life, the new life and the more abundant life. The result of her testimony was the acknowledging of belief in the fruits of his teachings that followed every conversion. (John 4:1-42.)
To the woman of Samaria Jesus not only revealed himself as the Christ, but he proclaimed the absolute necessity for a knowledge of God and sincerity in the worship of him. God is a spirit; an individual intelligence in whom the spiritual dominates. In this there is no denial that God has a body of flesh and bone, as his son had after his resurrection. To worship God in spirit means to worship him in sincerity and with spiritual acquaintance. To worship him in truth means to worship him in the light of truth concerning what he is, and this accords with the declaration concerning eternal life. "And this is life eternal that they might know thee. The only true God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent."
THE WOMAN WITH THE TWO MITES.
She is called by a modern writer, "The Greatest Giver." To appreciate her place as an outstanding character one needs to study Mark 12:38-44. From a discussion in the temple auditorium, Jesus turned to making observations as to what was going on in the contribution department. The rich put in much with pomp and display of generosity, behind which was the greed for publicity. A widow meekly put in the box two pence. It was her all, and a big heart went with her small gift. And what Jesus said made the unnamed woman (widow) a person of glorious fame. Hers was a gift to the ages in the blaze of her generosity. We see our needs as givers.
TABITHA
The brief story of the life of this remarkable woman is found in Acts 9:36-42. Behind her name is the female gazelle, a creature of gentle disposition and beauty of form. (See dictionary, or cyclopedia.) She seems to have been a lady of the Relief Society type. A "woman of good works and deeds." She became ill and died and was restored to life by a miracle. The narrative of the event reaches its climax in the words of the Apostle Peter, "Tabitha, arise." One can scarcely study the text without feeling a faith-promoting thrill that prompts a desire to make others acquainted with the remarkable circumstances. One is led to wonder whether the spirit of the lifeless body was lingering near or whether it heard the call of the Man of God, from afar, and came with a speed greater than a radio wave.
Review Questions and Problems
1. How did Mary of Magdala get the name of Magdalene?
2. Mention three or more important events in the life of Mary of Magdala.
3. What was the most outstanding quality in the character of Mary of Magdala?
4. What do you see through the reading of Matt. 27:55-56?
5. Give a description of your picture of the woman at the well.
6. Compare the testimony of the Samaritans with the testimony of Peter. John 4:42; Matt. 16:16.
7. What is the great lesson taught by the Savior's comment on his observations of the widow's gift of two mites?
8. What sentence marks the apex of theological interest in the story of Tabitha's death and restoration to life?
9. Which woman was the nearest mortal relative of the Savior?
10. What woman did Jesus approve of in private and defend in public?
11. What are the evidences that the women of the Messianic dispensation had no worries about authority?
LESSON II
Work and Business (Second Week in June)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE?CIVIC PRIDE
Improvement of church grounds, public parks, school grounds, cemeteries. This should cover sanitary conditions in and about the various buildings, including toilets, outside privies, etc.
Suggestions:
I. Set aside a period for each of the above projects.
II. Enlist the cooperation of City Officials, Commercial Clubs, Business Men, Boy Scouts, Bee Hive Girls, Seagull Girls, etc.
LESSON III
Literature (Third Week in June)
GEORGE SANTAYANA
Our readers will surmise at once that George Santayana is of foreign birth because of his very foreign sounding name. He was born in Madrid, Spain, December 16, 1863. It was as a lad of nine years of age that he came to the United States. After such preparatory training as must be acquired by one who desires to do college work, he entered Harvard University where he received his college education. That he was a man of unusual ability was apparent to all who came in contact with him. It seemed inevitable that in the course of time he should become an instructor of philosophy in Harvard University, where he later received his Ph. D. This was in the year 1889. In time Santayana became one of the most noted professors that Harvard University has ever listed on its faculty, as well as one of the most widely appreciated thinkers that Americans have followed. In 1914, the year of the great war, he went abroad, and ever since that time has been living in France or in England, according to his desire.
His first work was in verse, a book called Sonnets and Poems which appeared in 1894, The Sense of Beauty followed in 1896. Then came The Life of Reason, in 1905. In 1923 appeared a revision of his collected poems. During the nineteenth century he was perhaps best known as a poet, but in the twentieth century he gained fame as a philosopher, so that it was with a degree of apology that he published the 1923 volume of poems. He felt, as did undoubtedly many of his readers, that he had left the realm of poetry and entered definitely the field of philosophy, so that henceforth he preferred to be known as a philosopher rather than a poet.
Our chief reason for presenting George Santayana to our readers and members of the Relief Society is because of the intense spiritual quality of his verse. He had passed through the struggles, had been tossed by the billows, and had found a calm and peace that passeth understanding. So that while he is a philosopher and a reasoner, he knows the value of intuition, the value of the inner life which prompts and understands and reaches far beyond the place where reason goes.
Santayana advises us "to trust the soul's invincible surmise." Rittenhouse, commenting on this line, says, "it would be difficult to define intuition more succinctly." In other words, the promptings of the soul that are not always supported by logic are to be trusted. If the human heart yearns for and dreams of immortality then immortality is no dream but is a sacred reality. Such belief Santayana would maintain is entirely reasonable and sound. He warns us in no uncertain tones that reason is a blind guide. "It is not wisdom," he says, "to be only wise, and on the inward vision close the eyes." It is the deep spiritual intuition that drives men on to higher goals and gives them power to penetrate a world deeper and of more concern than this material world. He undoubtedly agrees with the Savior that when Mary sought the spiritual she chose the better part. His very choice poem entitled, "O World, Thou Choosest Not the Better Part," gives us proof of this:
O World, thou choosest not the better part!
It is not wisdom to be only wise,
And on the inward vision close the eyes,
but it is wisdom to believe the heart.
Columbus found a world, and had no chart,
Save one that faith deciphered in the skies:
To trust the soul's invincible surmise
Was all his science and his only art.
Our knowledge is a torch of smoky pine
That lights the pathway but one step ahead
Across a void of mystery and dread.
Bid, then, the tender light of faith to shine
By which alone the mortal heart is led
Unto the thinking of the thought divine.
This poem must ring true to Latter-day Saints who know that Columbus was led forth through faith to the discovery of the new world and that his trust in God was both "his science and his only art."
Santayana believes in the emotions that fill the soul in the thoughts of the inner being. He would shut out the ills of life with the thoughts of beauty that find their source in man's inner life. All the ugly passions, all the disconsolateness of life, all the smoke of battle and other disagreeable sights and sounds that are part of the great outside world he would shut from him and dwell in a world of his own contemplation. As evidence of this idea we include the following lines:
A wall, a wall around my garden rear,
And hedge me in from the disconsolate hills:
Give me but one of all the mountain rills,
Enough of ocean in its voice I hear.
Come no profane insatiate mortal near
With the contagion of his passionate ills;
The smoke of battle all the valleys fills,
Let the eternal sunlight greet me here.
He brings to his life romantic escape by thinking of what is beautiful when what is ugly presses on his physical senses:
A thousand beauties that have never been
Haunt me with hope and tempt me to pursue;
The gods, methink, dwell just behind the blue;
The satyrs at my coming fled the green.
The flitting shadows of the grove between
The dryads' eyes were winking, and I knew
The wings of sacred Eros as he flew
And left me to the love of things not seen.
'Tis a sad love, like an eternal prayer,
And knows no keen delight, no faint surcease,
Yet from the seasons hath the earth increase,
And heaven shines as if the gods were there.
Had Dian passed, there could no deeper peace
Embalm the purple stretches of the air.
Mr. Rittenhouse tells us "it is no exaggeration to say that were Mr. Santayana in a cloister, or upon a mid-sea island with his books and dreams, he could scarcely be less in touch with the passing world than he is in the midst of the clamor and insistence of modern life, where he keeps the tranquility of the inner silence as if there were no voices dinning in his ears. He is subjective to the degree of transfusing himself with another's consciousness, and looking upon his own nature from an impersonal standpoint."
There we live o'er, amid angelic powers,
Our lives without remorse, as if not ours,
And others' lives with love, as if our own.?
Mr. Santayana has written some exquisite sonnets. He is a master of this type of verse. In one of his sonnets he is thinking of lovers who are divided in their burial. One dies among the hills of Spain and the other in a northern land where is smelled the perfume of pines, yet he says it matters not. Nothing of the heart returns to earth, and death does not separate souls bound together with immortal love.
We needs must be divided in the tomb,
For I would die among the hills of Spain,
And o'er the treeless, melancholy plain
Await the coming of the final gloom.
But thou?O pitiful!?wilt find scant room
Among thy kindred by the northern main.
And fade into the drifting mist again,
The hemlocks' shadow, or the pines' perfume.
Let gallants lie beside their ladies' dust
In one cold grave, with mortal love inured;
Let the sea part our ashes, if it must,
The souls fled thence which love immortal burned,
For they were wedded without bond of lust,
And nothing of our heart to earth returned.
Questions and Problems
1. State in your own words what you think Santayana has said about Columbus in the poem, "Thou Choosest Not the Better Part."
2. Tell some personal experience that goes to show that feeling and intuition are ofttimes trustworthy guides and may be relied upon.
3. Show how physical barrenness is often crowded out of the life by spiritual hope.
4. Give an example of some spiritual experience that has blotted out the pain of unpleasant conditions or surroundings.
LESSON IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in June)
Social Problems of Childhood?Paul
The social setting of an individual can either limit him so that normal happy life is impossible, or the setting may give him the exact experience he needs to express and develop his personality.
There is a great range and variety of social influences in home, neighborhood, school and community life. The child who begins life in a poverty-stricken, illiterate and alcoholic home travels a different path through life from one born in a home of intelligent, affectionate parents, who can provide comfortably for the needs of the children. Between the home of squalor and debauchery at one extreme, and the home of comfort and culture at the other, there are all varieties of home and neighborhood standards. A poor home may have high standards of health and education, while a comfortable home may be lacking in these important elements. Homes and families are all different and have their own peculiarities. This truism is mentioned here, for the story of the boy Paul, is a story of a boy made unhappy because of the nature of his foster home.
The responsibility of placing a child for adoption is a grave one. There is first the serious problem of removing the child from its own environment, which may be because of its illegitimate birth, the desertion or death of a parent, or the unwholesome character of the home. A great number of the children who are placed in foster homes are not orphans, but are children, victims of an unhappy environment. In some instances a change can be made in the child's own home, so that he can remain with his own people. This is especially true of the child born out of wedlock. When given encouragement, guidance, protection, and, perhaps, some financial help, many of the young, unfortunate mothers are spared the unnatural and inhuman ordeal of giving away their new born infants. No matter what the circumstances, it is a serious and important step to remove children permanently from their own homes, and a step that should not be taken until every effort has been made to better the home environment. The attempt to rehabilitate a home, and the final decision to remove the children, should be made by a trained expert in social problems.
A second serious responsibility is to the foster parents. Many intelligent, cultured, foster parents have opened their comfortable homes to foundlings, to learn, too late, that no happiness can come to them or the child by the association. As a safeguard to the generous persons willing to adopt a child, certain elements in the child's background should be determined. A thorough physical examination, including tests for venereal infection should be given the child. A mental examination, if the child is three or four years, can be given to avoid the danger of burdening a home with a feeble-minded child. If the child is too young to be tested certain history of the parents will assist in determining its mental potentials and behavior traits. This important study of a child to determine whether it should be placed for adoption should be done by a trained expert in child welfare.
The chief concern, of course, is the child's development, and the most important responsibility in placing a child is to the child itself. A home that might be ideal for one child would be an unhappy environment for another. A comfortable income and the ability to provide the physical needs of the child is only one of many elements in child placing. Again, the work of finding the right home for the child can best be done by the trained expert in child welfare. Haphazard, unsupervised child-placing, done by well-intentioned friends, judges, physicians, and agencies, has caused many heartbreaks among foster parents, and many frustrated, unhappy lives among the adopted children.
Paul's placement brought unhappiness to himself and his foster parents. He was a boy of average intelligence (I. Q. 93), with good physical development. He was born in a home of poverty; and when Paul was very young his brutal father deserted his mother. His mother had a mental upset which necessitated her confinement in an institution. Paul was placed in a home of luxury, where every opportunity for education was given him. The foster parents employed a governess to care for the boy, so while he had every physical care and attention, he had none of the affection and personal attention that are important factors in normal child development. When Paul was sixteen he was unhappy, restless, and untruthful. He was placed in an exclusive boarding school, where he could have special educational advantages. Before he left for school he was told of his real position in the family, and this naturally upset him. At school he had difficulty in competing with this selected group of students, where the academic standard was very high. There was nothing in the curriculum to give him an outlet for his ability as a craftsman or mechanic. He became less interested in his work, and sought bad companions away from school. He defended himself with lies and his whole attitude was aggressive and rebellious. He became so upset that a mental collapse seemed imminent. In order to avoid a breakdown the boy was permitted to leave school and find employment in a shop. He left his luxurious foster home and preferred to live with some of his relatives, who were in poor circumstances. He found peace and happiness in supporting himself and contributing to the upkeep of the humble home of his relatives.
That Paul's experience in his foster home was not a success is apparent. It should be of interest to analyze the causes of failure on the part of the foster parents that caused Paul's breakdown. The simple explanation would be that "blood will tell" and that environment could not overcome the handicaps in Paul's heredity. But is such an explanation true? Is it not just as possible that the environment and experiences in his foster home were the real causes of his unhappiness, his lying, and his depression?
Paul was given no personal attention and affection by his foster parents, and this lack of love-life and emotional expression would tend to make the boy unhappy, resentful, and bewildered at his place in hearts of persons believed to be his parents. Later, when he was told of his true status, he naturally had an unhappy reaction. He felt himself different from other persons who had normal homes and he was supersensitive to the attitude of his foster parents. He found nothing in their well-intentioned plan to support him, comfort him or to satisfy his adolescent need for homelife and real affection. He turned with gratitude to relatives where he found a true bond of affection.
The type of school selected accentuated the boy's unhappiness. He had average intelligence and had he been better adjusted emotionally, he may have met with fair success at his school work. The formal, academic work was a little too difficult for his mental endowment, and his escape from this atmosphere to activities which suited him better, helped to give him a better mental attitude.
No generalizations can be made about the merits of certain homes in selecting them for placing children. Children must be suited to the particular home, for both child and foster home has its merits, handicaps, and its own peculiarities. The adjustment of one to the other is a difficult process at best. In fairness to both, every precaution and care should be taken, and every advantage of science and experience should be applied to avoid adoptions that can bring only unhappiness to the child and to the generous foster parents taking the stranger within their doors.
Reference?Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile; Paul, pages 254-259.
Questions and Problems
1. What is meant by social setting or environment?
2. Why is it sometimes necessary to remove children from their homes?
3. What should be known about a child before it is placed for adoption?
4. Why is it necessary to fit a child to a particular home?
5. What were the causes of Paul's unhappiness?
6. How were his difficulties overcome?
7. Why should child-placing be the work of a trained expert in child welfare?
GLORIOUS ROSES What is more inviting than a wonderful bed of beautiful EVERBLOOMING ROSES? For your selection we offer more than eighty varieties embracing every desirable type and color known to the Rose; and so reasonably priced. Get Free Catalog For Full Details Everything For The Garden Porter -Walton Company Fri PRODUCT Leadership Through Quality More Frigidaire in use than all other Electric Refrigerators combined Frigidaire Is Colder Than Ice Automatically, Frigidaire electric refrigeration maintains a temperature so cold that foods stay fresh until they come to your table. Frigidaire is always cold. See Frigidaire demonstrated at our display room. Electric Light & Refrigeration Co. Distributor Sales and Service Representation Throughout Intermountain Territory.