[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 1 | Special Feature | New Year's Greeting | General Presidency]
[New Year's Greeting General Presidency]

Teaching the President Joseph Fielding Smith of The Council of the Twelve (Called to the First Presidency October 29, 1965) [Address Delivered at the officers meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] (Read by his wife, Jessie Evans Smith, in his absence) Sister Smith: Thank you, Sister Spafford. I don't know whether I am grateful to be here this morning or not. I was looking forward to it yesterday, but like Brother Doxey, I have heen watching the door over here hoping that the brethren would come in, but they haven't, but I love you and I am grateful to be here with you this morning. My husband doesn't generally write his speeches, but he said, "I feel that I should do something this time in order to give the sisters the message. I don't know why I feel like that," he said, "but I think I should just put down a few remarks." So, with your faith and prayers on my behalf, I will give what President Smith has for you sisters. It is entitled, "Teaching the Gospel." @ My dear sisters, I hope and pray that I may say something that will be upbuilding to your testimonies, and I ask that the Lord will bless me with inspiration to give the things that you desire. The Church has_ two great responsibilities. That is, the members of the Church have these responsibilities. It is our individual duty to preach the gospel by precept and by example among our neighbors. In 4 Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants, we are informed that even those who are warned are under the obligation to receive the message and also to wam their neighbors. The people who are living are entitled to hear the message, so this responsibility to teach the world is an outstanding one. We cannot get away from the obligation. The Lord declared that his coming is nigh at hand. It is ' our duty, then, to do all we can, and the Lord will bring to our aid other forces besides our missionaries, that his work may be advanced and his words be fulfilled. I speak of this responsibility at this time for fear there may be some who think the work they are doing is the great work of this dispensation. The people engaged in the Relief Society and other auxiliaries feel that they have great responsibility and they have, but their work does not overshadow this great duty of preaching the gospel to the world. Now, there are many debts which we owe the Lord. There is the debt of preaching this gospel to a wicked and perverse generation, and those are the words of the Lord, so do not accuse me of calling the world wicked. It is. I can testify to that from what I have seen of it, and I have seen of the wickedness but a small part, I assure you. The world today is filthy, drunken, saturated and stinking with tobacco. The world is full of immorality. It is a fallen world. It has been a fallen world since Adam was driven from the Garden of Eden, and yet we are in it, and the Lord has given us the mission of assisting him, of being agents in this world, to regenerate it, as

far as it is possible to bring to pass that regeneration. It will never be fully accomplished, so far as we are concerned. We are not going, by our preaching, to save very many souls. The Lord has given unto us our agency. We may act for ourselves, we may choose to do good or we may choose to do evil. The Lord said that men love darkness TEACHING THE GOSPEL rather than light because their deeds are evil. Yet our mission, I say, so far as it is within our power, is to regenerate, to bring to repentance, just as many of the children of our Father in Heaven as it is possible for us to do. That is one of our debts; that is an obligation the Lord has placed upon the Church. It is the duty of every member of this Church to preach the gospel by precept and by example. The purpose and duties of the Relief Society are many. I am going to repeat myself again because there may be some here today who were not here when I made this statement before, and I also have the backing of my father, President Joseph F. Smith.