[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 32 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

She was the only woman speaker at the organization's national convention in Oakland, California. Beatrice Majors Van Vleet Burns, wife of the Governor of Hawaii, a busy official hostess, and mistress of the twenty-four room mansion where Queen Liliuokalani lived after the Hawaiian monarchy was overthrown, conducts her numerous responsibilities from a wheel chair. She was stricken with polio thirty years ago and has been unable to walk since that time. She was born in Oregon, a descendant of Colonel Alexander Majors of Pony Express fame. As an army nurse in Hawaii in 1930, she met the present Governor of Hawaii, John Burns, then a student at the University of Hawaii. Mother of three children, an admired homemaker, social and civic worker, as well as a companion and helpmeet to her husband, she is greatly admired for her graciousness and courage.

Miss Sharon Moline, a Mormon girl, is Miss Wool of America, and on her tour was received by President Johnson. I Bound Volumes of 1965 Magazines Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1965 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $3.25, leather $5.25, including the index. A limited number of 1965 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2.00 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1965 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Copies of The Relief Society Magazine index for 1965 for personal binding can be secured from the General Board office for 20¢ prepaid. Volumes bound at the Deseret News Press include a free index.