[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 595 | General Feature | Shall I Deem Her My Enemy? Cora Hill Arnold | Lesson Department]
Deem Her My Enemy? Cora Hill Arnold I didn't like her! I don't know why. I just simply didn't like her. I am sure those who study these things would have said it was a "personality clash." I found fault with everything she did—not always to myself, I am ashamed to admit. I heard from others that she felt the same way about me. She seemed always to force herself into the limelight, to show everyone how important she was. How I disliked to see her achieve. She was never very friendly to me, and I would pass her with a cool nod or a polite "hello." When I thought about her—which was too often—I was miserable because to dislike a person does make one unhappy. And then one day I heard she was ill. So what? It was not my worry. But it was, and I couldn't forget it. Because I have an active conscience I finally went into my kitchen and stirred up some applesauce cupcakes and swirled a favorite frosting on carefully, not forgetting colored candies for the top. And I took them to her! Her face lighted up with surprise and pleasure, and a warm glow spread over my heart, washing away the angry prejudice at once. As I walked from her home to mine I was smiling and the day was bright and beautiful. Now she is one of my close friends. We have great fun times together. We have much in common and I have found her to be a most choice person with a delightful sense of humor. She has many talents and is extremely modest about them. When she achieves I glow with pride. Someone has said, "Hate is love gone wrong. We hate those whom we might have loved." I only know my loss would have been great had I continued to deem her my enemy. HIS FATHER'S KEYS His father takes my little son On all the errands he must run— The two of them walk side by side. My little son is filled with pride To be on every one of these, Entrusted with his father's keys. At first I longed to rescue them For purse or pocket once again. My mind could only visualize Their loss.