[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 570 | Fiction | The Giving | Edith Larson]
es after her husband Simon died in June. True, she was thankful for Simon's sake that the years of suffering were over, that he was with Heavenly Father where there is no more pain—but she missed him. They had been very close. And now she would miss Teddy also—active, happy-go-lucky Teddy, who could be so thoughtful and loving at the right time. The last morning of his stay, she rose determined to present a cheerful face. When they heard the school bus stop across the road, she joined Teddy on the porch to wave to the nine Newton children, shining in their new school clothes. As they solemnly filed into the bus, they looked just like any other group of children—and for that Laura felt a glow of satisfaction. "I wish I could go with them. It must be fun to take a school bus,"' sighed Teddy. "Mama and Daddy need you, Teddy. They lent you to me all summer. It's their turn now."

[The Giving Edith Larson]

"I know, but I can wish, can't I eed Yes, he could wish and Laura could wish, too. She could wish that Myrna lived nearer to her. She could wish that the Newtons were different than they were so that she could fill her life with their needs. But wishing would not change facts. When, at last, Myrna and Teddy were in the car ready to go, Laura had a momentary qualm. Perhaps she was wrong to cling to the old home. Then she straightened her shoulders and waved until they were out of sight. She would not falter. She had made her decision. She must learn to live with loneliness. She turned back into the house, now grown so strangely quiet. The Giving The scuff of her slippers on the hardwood floors set up a rhythm: Teddy is gone; Teddy is gone. Somehow her steps led her automatically to the sewing rocker by the south window, from which she had watched Teddy at play all summer. No, she mustn't sit there. The side lawn with its great spreading cottonwood and its sand box looked too empty in the brilliant September light and shadow. She had left the breakfast dishes on purpose, over Myrna's protests—left them so there would be something that needed doing to fill the emptiness. But even the kitchen seemed hushed this morning. The familiar hum of the frig and the tick of the ancient clock accented the quiet. Laura ran hot water into half the double sink. She was usually thankful that Myrna had insisted on her modernizing the kitchen when Simon became bedridden, but today she would have welcomed the old, time-consuming inconveniences. The kitchen, too, looked out on the side yard. In spite of herself, her eyes were drawn to the empty space where whirlwinds of activity had become so normal. Pictures from the long summer flashed before her eyes as she mechanically washed, rinsed, and dried the dishes, arranging them neatly below the counter. Bi first she saw Teddy playing there by himself and remembered how she had worried lest he become lonely here on the farm that was no longer a farm—no animals, no crops—just isolation. But Teddy seemed to have infinite resources for self-amusement. He 

571 August 1970

 carried on long conversations with his trucks, graders, and tractors. 7 Then she saw three children standing by the fence and watched Teddy as he drew them into his circle of influence, the instinctive host. They were the Newton triplets, part of the mountain family that had just moved down from the hills with ten of their eleven children. The triplets had changed the picture in the side yard, though Teddy's blond robustness dominated the three slim, dark figures that seemed to flow around him. Even his shorts and sleeveless shirts contrasted sharply with the ragged overalls and haphazard tops of Jerry, Terry, and Vi. It was three days before Laura realized that Vi was a girl. The sound augmented. War whoops and gun-fire, cheers and laughter brought the yard to life. And the sound diminished. Four heads came close together in solemn conclave. Teddy was being persuasive, the others just as obviously reluctant. Then, the quartet rose as one, and, Teddy leading, filed toward the house, each with a hand raised as if leading something. Of course—a horse! A knock at the back door. Laura hurried to open it. Teddy, straight-faced, swept an imaginary hat from his head and asked, "Could you spare a bite to eat, Ma'am, for us _ saddle-blistered cowpokes? We've come a long ways since we ate last, Ma'am." "But, of course! Just hitch your horses to the porch rail and come im." The horses were quickly disposed of, but at the door the 572 triplets balked in spite of Teddy's urging. "We're too dirty," said one. "We might track up that nice floor," said another. "Maw told us not to bother nice people," added the one that later turned out to be a girl. "It's no bother at all. Teddy always has milk and cookies at this time. He'd love to have you join him," invited Laura, her heart going out to these forlorn, undernourished-looking youngsters. Bana so the milk and cookies turned out to be sandwiches, too, spread thickly with peanut butter and jam, all of which the foursome devoured asrapidly as Laura could produce them, even while the triplets eyed the neat kitchen with its gleaming appliances. But the next day the triplets could not be induced to share Teddy's lunch. Laura felt her impatience mounting. The need was so obviously there and nothing made her feel better than fulfilling a need. She would call on the children's mother that very afternoon. In the old house across the road, she found a timid-appearing, work-bent woman who seemed embarrassed to have Laura call on her. "The house isn't settled yet," Mrs. Newton apologized, but Laura realized that no amount of settling could put the stuffing back in the davenport, make the round oak heater more attractive, or dress the ragged, barefoot children who hung curiously in the background. Never had Laura exerted herself more to put someone at ease. To some extent she was successful. She learned that the Newtons had always lived far back in the hills because Mr. Newton liked it that way. But now there were teenagers. Theoldestboy— Marine private Tom, home on his first furlough—had persuaded his father to let the mother and children come close enough to town so the school bus could transport them. They had attended a one-room school in the mountains only when weather permitted a ten-mile ride on mule back. The triplets had never been to school although they were Teddy's age. "I'm sure Teddy would love to help them catch up a little," Laura offered enthusiastically. Mrs. Newton's mouth set in a thin line. ''We don't need help," she stated.. Laura must have _ looked surprised for her hostess went on to explain: "Mr. Newton—he says living near town is all right if we don't get like the people that live off the government. We've never needed charity and we don't now." Laura hastened to explain that Teddy was lonely by himself, that he loved to play school, but how can one child play school alone? As a favor, wouldn't Mrs. Newton allow the triplets to join him even though school did always include a mid-morning snack? The idea of a snack at school intrigued all the children. Was it the custom in town schools? Laura explained about surplus milk, only to find that the government's part in the program was a stumbling block. However, it was finally agreed that the twins The Giving could snack with Teddy if Laura had chores for them to do to pay for the food. This deal set the pattern for that whole fantasticsummer. The Newton children were both shy and proud. Laura shuddered to think of the effect on them should they appear at school dressed as she grew accustomed to seeing them. She loved to sew. She could foresee the sewing needs of this one family filling all the vacant hours after Teddy went home. But her offers were turned down. She studied the problem and she prayed. How could she give the much-needed help without offense? Since Mrs. Newton didn't know how to sew, Laura was able to make dresses for the girls while giving the mother lessons. Laura learned a great deal during those lessons. She learned to love and admire the determined little woman, who carried her load so gallantly and so proudly. Belinda Newton might be timid about social contacts, but she never seemed to weary of work and was quick to learn. B33 ut she never took a lesson without paying for it. Laura was kept busy devising jobs. The boys cleaned out her shed and cut wood for her fireplace. The oldest ones painted the rail fence and restrung the grape arbor. The reciprocal help became so complicated that Laura often feared she was getting more than she gave, even though the sewing lessons branched out into other phases of homemaking. In August, Tom _ sent his mother a Japanese-made sewing 

573 August 1970

 machine from the PX. Laura had never seen anyone as happy as Belinda when she brought her girls over to show Laura the clothes she had made them for the first day of school. Even though the hems weren't quite straight and one dress was a little too long, Laura gave nothing but praise. When to keep still was one of the things this curious summer had taught her. Early in the summer, Laura had discussed the Newton case with Bishop Burns and Sister Johnson, the Relief Society president. However, even though the Newtons were Latter-day Saints, they refused all direct Church aid. They had been out of touch and no amount of talk about the Church Welfare Program made any impression on them. True, they didn't have clothes to go to Church in, but they were out of the habit of going anyway. The best the bishop could do was suggest that various members use the older Newton boys when they had to hire extra help. After one trial, the boys found many temporary jobs. And so Laura was _ pleased when, two weeks before school was to start, the boys and Belinda marched solemnly over to her house and asked advice in buying school clothes with their earnings. She remembered so vividly the quiet pride with which they had counted out the bills and coins. But her heart sank. What they had saved would do little more than buy shoes for the nine school children. She thought a moment. "The first thing," she finally suggested, "is to buy shoes. To fit everyone 574 perfectly, shoes must be new. For other things — pants, shirts, underwear, sox—if the money won't stretch for new ones, you can do what many of our members do—buy at the Relief Society rummage sale next week. Clothes are so expensive nowdays! And of course, the money helps the Relief Society. We are trying to build up our welfare fund. Some poor family will benefit by what you spend there." The Newtons decided they could wear second-hand things proudly if it benefited the poor. And they would count it a favor to be paid for in more split kindling if she went with them as a guide on their shopping expeditions. After buying the shoes, there was only $10.57 left for all the other needs. The rummage sale committee met the day before the sale to sort the donated items and get everything ready. Laura spent her time sorting out things that would fit the Newton children and putting them where they could be easily found. "The next morning she drove her neighbors to the sale early. She had volunteered to open up. By the time anyone else appeared, the Newtons were happily loading Laura's car with enough clothes to see them comfortably through the first weeks of school. The cost, by Laura's careful computation, was exactly $10.50. She lost one battle though. Since she was working at the sale that day, the Newtons refused a ride home. Six miles wasn't far to walk. If she would bring the clothes, that was favor enough. Yes, it had been a full and wonderful summer. And there might still be things the Newtons would let her do for them. She wanted to get all of them active in Church. She and Teddy had made a small start in this direction, yet even as she warmed to this thought, she knew the Newton wall of pride would never really break open for an outsider like her. But thinking back over the summer was no way to spend the rest of her day—her long, empty day. With forced cheerfulness Laura went through the morning ritual—making beds, sweeping, dusting. She even picked fresh flowers and arranged them in the dining room. The glads were so lovely. It was only noon. She ate because this was one of the things Myrna had fretted about. She did up the few dishes. Now what to do? She would look for Teddy's surprise. It was strange she hadn't already run across the letter he had written. I But no amount of looking produced Teddy's note. She began searching in_ unlikely places and came across a box of pictures she and Simon had taken in Hawaii during one of their rare holidays. She became so absorbed in the memories they evoked she didn't look out when she heard the school bus stop. She had just put the box away when, a quarter of an hour later, the doorbell rang. There on the doorstep stood the triplets, still in their school clothes. Their smiles were friendly, yet somehow fearful. Jerry was in the lead, holding out an envelope; Terry carried a _ tightly The Giving clutched bouquet of daisies; and Vi held her arms out stiffly to support a board on which rested a cloth-draped loaf of bread. Laura smiled. "Please come in," she invited, holding the door open wide. "I'm so glad to see you." The children didn't budge. Jerry extended the envelope Ne / I "For me?" Laura asked, and took it. The only word on it was Grandma in Teddy's uncertain printing. The surprise! How clever of him to have it delivered! "Thank you," she said, and then as the children just stood there, she repeated, "Won't you come in?" No one moved. What was she supposed to do? 

575 August 1970

 "Can't you read it?" Vi asked, and to Laura's surprise she saw that the child was close to tears. "Oh, of course. How stupid of me!"" How could she tell them she wanted to treasure Teddy's first letter in private? Laura tore open the envelope and pulled out the printed message that wandered crookedly down the page. Dear Grandma I no you will mis me I am giving you 3 grandchild to take my plas but don forget me pleez your loving granchild Teddy ps they can play with my toys Tears welled up unbidden. Dear, dear Teddy, but then Laura saw that the smiles were gone and only the fear remained on the three faces before her. Downing her own emotion, she smiled warmly at the triplets. "Three grandchildren! How wonderful! But now you really must come in. I can't have my grandchildren standing outside the door." Shyly but happily they edged into the house. Vi, bringing up the rear, said, "Maw sent you a loaf of her bread so we can stay to supper if you ask us." She hesitated and then added softly, "Grandma." Laura hugged her. "Of course, you're going to stay for supper. And it was so thoughtful of your mother to remember that I never bake bread when I'm alone. The toys are right where you put them. Why don't you all play in the sandbox till our supper's ready?" As she prepared the sort of meal that Teddy loved, Laura looked out the window at the no-longer-empty yard with a heart full of gratitude—gratitude for her seven-year-old grandson and for a neighbor who knew when not to be too proud.