Amy Brown Lyman Honored Counselor Marcia K. Howells
NEW and distinct honor has been accorded our beloved president, Amy Brown Lyman. She was selected January 26, 1943, by the Salt Lake City Council of Women to fill a'niche in its Hall of Fame. Only three times in the past ten years has this. Distinguished group chosen a few of their number "whom they delight to honor." They have selected women from the leaders of the community because of outstanding devotion to public welfare and civic betterment. At this time when women are contributing so much to preserve cur way of life and safeguard our homes and country, recognition for achievement is very important. Interesting is the fact that the Salt Lake City Council should honor Amy Brown Lyman at this time, when she is general president of Relief Society, an organization with a century of rich experience as a background and characterized by devoted service to humanity. As president of Relief Society, Sister Lyman is giving inspirational guidance to 115,000 women. In addition to her Church activity, President Lyman is recognized as an authority on social welfare work, She is listed in Who's Who in America, American Women, Women of the West, and Principal Women of America. Standards by which women are selected by the Salt Lake City Council of Women for its Hall of Fame are: outstanding and unselfish service to the community during a great part of life; notable civic service and Page 110 AMY BROWN LYMAN social betterment; and outstanding personality. Before the seven women were chosen, important facts were carefully considered, such as heritage and background, birth, education, civic and business affiliation, patriotic service, and inspirational activities. Six other living women were elected to the Hall of Fame this year, sharing this honor with our president. They are Dr. Maud May Babcock, for many years head of the speech department of the University of Utah; Judge Reva Beck Bosone, nationally recognized for her judicial work; Mrs. R. W. Fisher, Chaplain of the Salt Lake City Council of Women; Mrs. W. S. Core, a teacher of citizenship to the foreign-born; (Continued on page 120) Womans Sphere: Ramona W. Cannon THE United States is to be congratulated upon the character of her women military leaders. Oveta Culp Hobby, WAAC (Women's Army Auxiliary Corps) commander, has. Been a state parliamentarian, lawyer, newspaper executive, bank director, author, and political worker. She is the charming wife of a former governor of Texas, and mother of two children. Dr. Mildred McAfee, lieutenant commander of more than 10,000 WAVE'S (Navy's Women Appointed for Volunteer Emergency Service), was president of Wellesley College, and has been a beloved teacher, church worker, and dean of women. Mrs. Nancy Harkness Love, 28, commander of the WAFS (Women's Auxiliary Ferrying Squadron), has practiced many types of flying, with 1200 hours to her credit. Possibly the 500 or 600 qualifying as WAFS will pilot army bombers into war zones. Lieutenant commander Dorothy Stratton of the SPARS ("Semper paratus'""Always Ready,' Women's Coast Guard Reserve), is also an exceptional woman. Julia Flikke, motherly 63-year-old widow, has directed nurses since she took 100 of them to France in World War I. First American woman to rank as colonel, she now commands 31,000 nurses, some of whom are serving in Iceland, Alaska, England, Australia, Africa, India and the Solomons. IDEAS of notable women on how to win the peace. Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands: Nations must conquer their desire for revenge and aim at justice for all. Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt: Women of many nations have earned the tight to representation at the peace table and should be preparing themselves for such responsibility. Dorothy Thompson: United States' genius for production should be directed toward the abolishment of slums, the creation of a network of high grade hospitals that would leave no community unprovided for, and other social betterment. Pearl Buck: We must truly cooperate with the Eastern races, but, in order to do so, we must study and understand them. Helen Keller: We are responsible for other lives, for gentleness, for culture and progress. We must give now of our love and our free spirit, not to nations or peoples, but "just the vast humanity that is being poured out in blood and anguish." We must have equal rights and opportunities for all persons, and breathe the spirit of American democracy more invincibly than our enemies have spread their propaganda of tyranny and viciousness. Page 11 EDITORIAL cm Vol. 30 Our Freedom and Responsibilities IN this month of February 1943, when Americans in every walk of life are struggling valiantly to preserve and protect the American way of life, the birthday anniversaries of two great statesmen, George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, serve to remind us of the heroic struggles of the past that have given us the freedoms and the opportunities which we so jealously defend today, and impress upon us anew our duties and responsibilities toward our Government. Prophets of old declared this continent a land of promisea land of promise because of the fertility of its soil, the extensiveness of its streams, the preciousness of its ores "in which this land... Doth abound most plentifully"; a land of promise because God through his prophets declared it so. The Prophet Lehi said: "Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom He shall bring. And if it so be that they shall serve Him according to the commandments which He hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them." The truly great statesmen whose ideals and labors have helped to establish the American way of life, which we so highly prize today, were righteous men, having in their hearts a love for humanity and a sincere desire for the welfare of their brothers. We have only to read the lives of such men as Washington, Lincoln, and others to see that their Page 112 hearts were filled with the desire to promote the freedom and well-being of their fellow men. The spirit of God actuates all men whose desires are righteous and who unselfishly work for the good of mankind. "By means of this spirit, every man is enlightened... Each in accordance with his capacity to receive the light." Inspired by the Father, our early American statesmen gave us the Constitution whereby we enjoy the greatest freedom of any people on earth. The Prophet Joseph Smith referred to the Constitution of the United States as "a glorious standard... Founded in the wisdom of God." The Lord has told us through revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith that "Governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that He holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them for the good and safety of Society." Early in the History of the Church the Prophet Joseph Smith declared one of the fundamental tenets of Mormonism to be: "We believe in being subject to kings, rulers, presidents, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law." The true Latter-day Saint yields obedience to the law because of his firm belief in the eternal fact that a successful society can only be built upon voluntary obedience by all of February 1943 No. 2 EDITORIAL its members to the laws which govern it. The Savior unequivocally endorsed obedience to law when He said: "Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's, and unto God the things which are God's." George Washington in his Farewell Address said: "I believe every citizen should support the Government when final action is taken, whether he approves of the action or not." Yet even while yielding obedience to unjust law, it is the duty of everyone to use every lawful means in his power to bring about those changes which will make the laws of the government under which he lives more nearly conform to righteous principles. Fortunate indeed are we who live in this land of freedom where freedom of speech is lawful; where we may openly seek changes which we believe are for the betterment of our nation. Yet always must we remember that great blessings bring great responsibilities, and we must be sensitive to the responsibility 113 which accompanies the blessings of free speech. Let us not mistake liberty for license. From the Articles of Faith we see that obedience to law is not enough; we must also honor and sustain the law. As we obey, honor, and sustain the laws of the land even in the smallest matters, so we become better prepared to live above man-made laws and become fit subjects of the One Righteous King. This is a day when Latter-day Saints would do well to search the Scriptures for the promises made by the Father to this great nation. It is a time when we would do well to familiarize ourselves with the struggles of the past and the contributions of great men who have advanced this nation as a land of liberty. It is a time when we should meditate upon what is required of each individual as a citizen in this land of promise. Picture Presented Jo General Board Elder George Albert Smith honored the General Board of Relief Society at its meeting on January 13, 1943, by personally presenting to the General Board a copy of a colored drawing, in size about fifteen by twenty-four inches, of Lucy Mack Smith, which he and Elder Preston Nibley had discovered recently while on a visit to Illinois. In making the presentation, Elder Smith recited a few of the major events in the life of Lucy Mack Smith, revered mother of the Prophet Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and also spoke some words of encouragement and commendation, as well as counsel to the General Board which were greatly appreciated.. The picture, a photograph of which serves as a frontispiece to this issue of the Magazine, is highly prized by the General Board, and will be hung in ene of the General Board rooms. Woted. TO THE FIELD Food Production and Processing Program Featured By Public Schools HE "Production and Processing of Food for Farm Family Use," is the title of the course in the Rural War Production Training Program which is now under way in 10,000 rural high schools of America. The program is sponsored by the United States Office of Education in cooperation with State Boards for Vocational Education and rural high schools. Persons over seventeen years of age are eligible to enroll in the courses which are offered free to the public. Competent instructors and leaders are employed to carry on the instruction and supervision of the program. Ten or more meetings constitute the formal instruction; and supervision and follow up by vocational teachers is a feature. The course on the production and processing of food is aimed at helping the heads of farm families to plan the family food budget and produce, Anniversary MARCH 17, 1943, Relief Society will be 101 years of age. Anniversary day this year, as always, will be recognized by the local Societies throughout the Church. The General Board is issuing no special suggestions for programs for this day, leaving entirely with the local Societies the planning of appropriate observances.; However, the General Board still has on hand some of the mimeographed material which was listed in Page 114 process, and conserve the necessary food to meet their needs. Skills, abilities, and information incident to the growing of the Victory Garden, home poultry flock, home milk supply, canning and caring of meat, preserving fruit and vegetables will. Be featured in the course. Every farm family can perform a fine patriotic service to our country and the whole cause of freedom by producing and preserving the food it needs from the resources on the home farm. The primary purpose of the course is to help American citizens to do this, so that food produced in commercial quantities can be shipped to our armed forces and our Allies. All persons interested in the course are urged to contact their local high school principal, vocational agricultural or homemaking teacher. Day Program bulletin No. 21, issued November 12, 1941, suitable for a commemorative Relief Society program either on or near March 17, or for the Sunday evening meeting on March 7. This may be had upon request as long as the supply lasts. It is suggested also that the recently issued A Centenary of Relief Society contains valuable historical material which migh be helpful in planning anniversary programs. Suggestions for the Relief Society NOTES TO THE FIELD meeting which is scheduled for the evening of Fast Day, March 7, 1943, have been prepared by the General Board. These suggestions appear in the January issue of theNew Serial THE problems and experiences of two people with different backgrounds who marry and live on a desert are graphically portrayed in a new serial, "Tomorrow's Cup," by Anna Prince Redd, which will begin in the March issue of the Magazine. 'The struggles and heartaches as well as the joys of the young heroine, are absorbingly revealed as the plot unfolds to its final solution. You will want to read every installment of this serial which has as its background the fabled San Juan country. Mrs. Redd, who has spent many years in this part of Utah, first as a teacher and later as a wife, is well qualified to picture for the reader the beauty and vastness of the region. 'This is the first time Mrs. Redd has been represented in the Magazine in the field of fiction although her poems, articles of prose and a one-act play are already familiar to our readers. Acknowledgment HE General Board wishes to acknowledge the beautiful and colorful Christmas and New Year greeting cards which were received from many of the stakes and missions of the Church. These expressions of remembrance and good will are greatly appreciated and tend to form a bond of friendship and sisterly love at this most joyful season of the year. HUMAN EQUATION Bertha A. Kleinman The schools of the ages have lavished their culture, To fashion my temperament under control, Yet ever, anon, like the claw of a vulture, Some renegade impulse enrages my soul. I rise to the thrill of the great and the glorious, The skies for my highway, I "hitch to a star." By nightfall my envy and greed are victorious, And pitifully human my dream bubbles are. I love and am loved with a depth of devotion, I sing and am glad at the glory of life; And here I am shaken with spiteful emotion, And spoiled is my day with its tempest and strife. I rise at the spur of demand and occasion, I plunge at defeat, at temptation, I fall; My triumph, my failure are human equation My task to exalt the composite of all! Planned Spring Cleaning Gertrude R. Garff Member of Relief Society General Board OU American women have a tremendous job to do. A home kept clean, tidy, harmonious, and beautiful... Good meals served graciously... A wife and mother who can take her work in her stride and come up glowing and unruffled to enjoy and be enjoyed by her family at the end of the daythese things are growing daily more vital to a sane indomitable America in a tense world." So says Dr. Louis E. Bisch, psychiatrist. True as is the above statement, it's asking a great deal of us women with spring cleaning practically upon us, especially this year with help so scarce we will have to do much of the work ourselves. Yes, it is asking a great deal, but the resourcefulness of womankind has never been denied, and with a little careful planning this problem can be solved successfully. Are you one of those housewives who favors a grand upheaval, ripping the house apart from top to bottom, wearing herself to shreds, and the family also, before everything is clean and in its place again? If you are, why not "plan" your seasonal cleaning this year so that the family will realize the cleaning has been completed not by the wear and tear on their dispositions, but by the shining beauty of their surroundings? I can almost hear many of you saying skeptically, "Interesting, if true." Let me say that it can be true, and to prove it I'll give you my plan, which may be easily adapted to large or small houses and households. Page 116 I won't take space to tell you how to clean lampshades or do minor repair jobs, etc., because you may find all these directions in America's Housekeeping Book, the textbook for the Home Topic lessons of 1942- 43. This book answers almost anything one needs to know in connection with housekeeping. I start housecleaning late in February or early in March, depending upon the weather, and devote one or two days a week to cleaning until Ihave finished. First I tour the house with a note book in my hand, and note down a list of the needed repair jobs. This year, of course, there won't be any grand scale painting, etc., for obvious reasons, but there will be plenty of little things that always need fixing, such as a loose doorknob or a drawer that sticks. When I have completed my list, I then see that all these repairs are attended to before I start in on the real housecleaning. This is also the time I make new curtains or covers, etc. It's such a wonderful feeling to have them ready to use when the right times comes. MY first plunge takes me to the attic and basement. These floors need a regular cleaning and overhauling, especially now in wartime when so many of the useless articles that have accumulated over a period of years may be vitally needed and given away to swell the rubber, brass, or copper piles. I also start a pile consisting of clothing and household articles not needed in the war effort, to give to the Deseret Industries, PLANNED SPRING CLEANING adding to this pile as my housecleaning progresses. When I was in the mission field the rule was laid down that my companion and I should change our residence every three months. We decided that the real reason was not to make contacts with more people as much as to get rid of unnecessary articles. Today, my spring cleaning serves the same purpose to me as a move, and is much more easily accomplished. After the attic and basement are attended to (and my husband usually helps with the hard cleaning there), I turn my attention to the kitchen, back hall and bath. At this point I can't resist mentioning how I wash walls and painted surfaces. All my walls except two bedrooms happen to be covered with walltex of a slightly rough texture. First I wash these walls with a mild solution of tri-sodium-sulphate, and then rinse them with a solution of diluted cooked starch. You will be surprised how easily the soil will come off at the next claning time since the dirt will all be on the starch. In my kitchen I first clean the cupboards and dishes, then the ceiling and walls and finally the floors. The house doesn't seem half so dirty with these rooms fresh and clean. The next job I undertake is cleaning and straightening all dresser drawers, the rest of the cupboards, and closets. Everything is taken out and drawers, walls, and shelves are washed thoroughly. I also use a good spray if there is danger from moths. Fresh paper is placed in the drawers and I begin to restore order. This is the time I add to the material for the Deseret Industries, discarding 117 those articles I can't use or make over for the children. Out-of-season clothes are hung away in moth proof bags, and place is made for articles to be needed in the near future. I then clean the two wall papered bedrooms, first washing the curtains so they can be ironed and hung when all else is done. The walls and ccilings are cleaned with a dough-like preparation, with a thorough brushing afterward to remove crumbs that may cling to walls and baseboards. After I have washed the woodwork and windows, I then do the floors, scrubbing the one bedroom rug or sending it out to be cleaned, and cleaning and waxing the wooden  floor of the other bedroom. Since the children's bedroom has washable walls I clean them when I do the front hall, the procedure being much the same as for the kitchen and bath. The final windup brings me to the living and dining rooms. Draperies are cleaned so they will be ready to hang when all other cleaning in these rooms is completed. I make good use of the vacuum appliances on upholstered furniture, etc. After the walls, windows, and woodwork have been washed, and the carpeted floor vacuumed (or cleaned if the carpet needs cleaning), and furniture polished, I hang the draperies, replace pictures, lamps and bric-a-brac. By cleaning according to this plan doing a little each week and starting eafly in the seasonyour housecleaning may be accomplished without exerting much more effort than would be expended on your regular cleaning days. Yes, it is wonderful what a little planning will do to make your housecleaning easy! Flag Etiquette Due to many questions on proper flag etiquette which have arisen as the result of the entrance of the United States into World War II, the following information is presented to the readers of TheIt is reprinted by courtesy of The National Americanism Commission, The American Legion, Indianapolis, Indiana, from its bulletin, "Let's Be Right on Flag Etiquette." Is it proper to fly the Flag of the A. No; it is not necessary to salute United States of America outdoors all night long now that the reproductions or photographs of the Flag. United States is engaged in war? Q. Is it necessary for a person to Flag should be displayed outdoors A. If the National Anthem is sung only from sunrise until sunset. The only cases where the. Flag properly flies at night are: 1Two Flags over the Capitol Building in Washington; one over the east front and one over the west front, day and night throughout the year. 2Over a permanent fort or ship when engaged in battle.. Is it necessary for a person to stand and salutewhenareproduction of the Flag of the United States of America is flashed on a motion picture screen? Page 118 by the entire audience, those persons present should: stand, but not salute. If the National Anthem is sung by a soloist accompanied by a band, orchestra or other musical instruments and the Flag is displayed, the audience should stand at attention and salute; those present in uniform using the right hand military salute and those in civilian dress, thecivilian salute (placing the right hand over the heart). When the National Anthem. No. The rules of civilian flag etiquette still govern, and the stand and salute when the National Anthem is sung? FLAG ETIQUETTE is played and/or sung by a soloist and the Flag is not displayed, those in uniform salute and those in civilian dress merely stand and face the music, men removing the headdress. Q. What should persons do when they are walking along the street and "The Star Spangled Banner" ls heard? A. If the music is near, you should stop, stand at attention and uncover. Q. Is it necessary for a person to stand and salute when the National Anthem is played over a loud speaker arrangement, film tract, radio, "juke box" or other type of a musical reproduction machine in a theater, restaurant, or other public place? A. No. It is recommended that persons pay respect only when the National Anthem is played by a band, orchestra or other musical instrument actually in the room. However, Colonel James A. Moss (deceased), who was head of the United States Flag Association and who was recognized throughout the nation as an authority on flag etiquette, has several answers to the question of what one should do when "The Star Spangled Banner" is heard over the radio. He says, "It depends on circumstances. Generally speaking if it seems natural and not forced to stand and uncover, it should be done; otherwise, it should not. For example,' if eating at table, lying in bed, or working in the kitchen, standing at attention would be forced and unnatural." The office of the National 119 Americanism Commission  believes that when the National Anthem is played over a radio or in a restaurant from a "juke box" or some other type of musical reproduction machine, or in a theater over a film tract, here again it would seem more or less forced and unnatural to pay respect. Is it proper to stand when "America, ""God Bless America," "The Red, White and Blue" and other such patriotic songs are played?. No; it is not proper. Has a change been made in the position of the right arm and hand while pledging allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America? Or A. No; there has been no change. The procedure set forth in the Flag Code is still recommended and that procedure is as follows: PLEDGE TO THE FLAG In pledging allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, the approved practice in schools, which is suitable also for civilian adults, is as follows: Standing with the right hand over the heart, all repeat together the following pledge: "I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one Nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all." At the words "to the Flag," the right hand is extended, palm upward, toward the Flag, and this position is held until the end, when the hand, after the words, "Justice for all," drops to the side. However, civilian adults will always show full respect to the Flag, when the pledge is being given, by merely standing at attention, men removing the headdress. Persons in uniform should render the right hand salute. Q. Can the Flag be washed or drycleaned? A. Yes; it is permissible to wash or dry-clean the Flag. Q. In displaying the Flag flat, either horizontally or vertically, in the window of a home or place of business, or flat against the wall, what should be the position of the Flag? A. It should be displayed with the union (blue field with stars) to the left of the observer in the Street. Q. In what position should the Flag be when suspended vertically over the middle of the street? A. In a north and south street the union (field of blue) should be to the east, and in an east and west street, it should be to the north. Amy Brown Lyman Honored (Continued from page 110) Mrs. Mollie E. Graham, devoted to the interests of children; and Mrs. Lula Greene Richards, 94 years of age in April of this year, the first editor of the Women's Exponent, the forerunner of The Relief Society te Magazine. Mrs. Richards is still active in the literary field. These women will be given public honor and acclaim at a banquet sometime in March. We congratulate them for their fine achievement. "Let us have faith that right makes might; and in that faith let us to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it." "The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether." "Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away." Abraham Lincoln  FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field'"' appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420. RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL OBSERVANCES Southern States Mission THE Augusta Branch, of which Bessie Palmer is Relief Society president, sent a brief report of its centennial observance, as follows: "Our celebration was a huge success. It started on March 15 beginning with sacrament meeting. Our chapel, which we think is one of the prettiest in the Church, was one big flower garden. A reception committee consisting of the branch Relief Society presidency welcomed the guests and gave them programs as they entered. The play 'Relief Society Why?' was presented, and the song 'A Hundred Thousand Strong' was sung. The attendance was the largest we have had in years. "Ou Tuesday, March 17, 1942, we had a real birthday party, honoring two of our members who themselves had birthdays in March. We thoroughly enjoyed the phonograph record which you were so kind to send. We used it Sunday, March 15, and Tuesday, March 17. It thrilled us through and through to hear the Prophet of God speak." Laura M. Smith, president of the Azalea Branch Relief Society ( South Alabama District), sent an interest CENTENNIAL TREE-PLANTING, AZALEA BRANCH, SOUTH ALABAMA DISTRICT, SOUTHERN STATES MISSION President Laura M. Smith stands with hand on the tree; on each side of her are her counselors. Page 121 CENTENNIAL BANQUET Trona Branch, California Mission ing account of events in commemoration of the centennial in this branch: "On December 22, 1942, during a heavy rain storm, members of our branch held a tree-planting ceremony on the Church grounds. Moying pictures of this ceremony were taken by Mr. And Mrs. Lewis M. Founds. In addition, a cement vault near the tree marker was filled with a box containing a history of the Relief Society organization from its beginning to the present, with pictures of all presidents and the dates and years of their service, a list of all Relief Society members of the year 1942, and a copy of the dedicatory prayer given by Lewis M. Founds, Sunday School superintendent. Another event of the day was a Christmas party held in 'The Hall.' "We are proud of our branch, for we now have twenty members entolled, with twenty-one subscriptions to the Magazine. Due to gas rationing nd scattered living conditions, only a few members are able to attend meetings all the time, but we feel that if they have the Magazine they are still in touch with Relief Society and receive much needed and beautiful messages each month." The accompanying picture shows the centennial tree. California Mission RUTH BELL, president of the Trona Branch Relief Society, sent the following short report of the celebration held in this branch: "Our Relief Society, which was organized last October (1941) near Death Valley, celebrated the centennial, March 17, 1942, with a banquet for the entire Trona Branch. Our centennial queen, Mrs. Carrie Benson, oldest member of our Society, lighted the candle for our cake. The accompanying picture shows the representation of our branch in attendance at the Banquet." Northwestern States Mission PPRANCES D. REES, secretary of the Dillon Branch Relief Society, sent the following note, along with  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 123 CENTENNIAL BANQUET North and South Butte Branches, Northwestern States Mission the accompanying picture, concerning the centennial observance of this branch: "The picture of the group shows those who attended our centennial dinner on March 17. Our birthday cake was the most beautiful cake creation that I have ever seen. The frosting looked like beautiful lace and was made entirely of sugar and CENTENNIAL DINNER Dillon Branch, Northwestern States Mission water. There were no toothpicks, no wire, nor anything to make it stand. Emma Mast made the cake, and Ruth Packer frosted it." Ada Dieterle is the president of this branch Relief Society. Eastern States Mission EDNA L. FRASER, secretary of the Albany Branch Relief Society, reports that the centennial was recognized by an extensive announcement in The Knickerbocker News of Albany, New York. This writeup gave a summary of the origin, purpose, and history of Relief Society, and featured the branch of Albany and the accomplishments of this branch in the Church Welfare Program. Included with the announcement was a group picture of the officers of this branch. They are: Almira Heeney Klein, president; Joan Cooley Leigh and Olga Butler Hopper, counselors; and Edna Fraser, secretary. Utah Stake (Provo, Utah) MERICA PERRY, president of Pioneer Ward Relief Society, reports its centennial program in these words: "The Pioneer Ward Relief Society held its centennial program March 17, 1942. This program was in the form of a 'Dr. Quiz' broadcast. Each of the general presidents of Relief Society was represented, dressed in the style of her time, and each gave a short explanation of the work accomplished in Relief Society while she was president, in answer to questions asked her by "Dr. Quiz. Then each former president of the ward organization was honored, and some of her accomplishments were mentioned. Nine of our eleven presidents were present, the other two being CENTENNIAL LUNCHEON Pioneer Ward, Utah Stake.  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 125 CENTENNIAL TREE-PLANTING Milton Ward, Morgan Stake ceased. Luncheon was served in the amusement hall at long tables. The president's table was centered with a beautifully decorated, tiered birthday cake trimmed in blue and gold, with 100 blue and gold candles on it. Over the top was an arch on which were inscribed the words 'Charity Never Faileth." Our tree-planting ceremony consisted of talks and musical numbers, the dedication being made by our ward bishop. A spirit of companionship and sisterly love prevailed throughout the observance, and all who participated in this occasion will long remember: Morgan Stake (Morgan, Utah) MARGARET WHITTIER, former president of the Milton Ward Relief Society, reviewed this ward's centennial activities as follows: "We observed the one-hundredth birthday of the Relief Society in the Milton Ward Chapel, Tuesday, March 17, 1942. The program commenced at two o'clock and consisted of song, music, and Relief Society history. Margaret Whittier gave the opening address of welcome. Two of the outstanding features of the occasion were the participation on the program of elderly members of our Society, and the playing of the recorded messages from President Heber J. Grant and President Amy Brown Lyman. After the program, a banquet was held in the recreation hall. The table was centered with a beautifully decorated birthday cake iced in Relief Society colors, topped with the number 100 in gold. Cynthia Criddle, oldest past Relief Society president in the ward, cut the cake. Due to weather conditions, our centennial treea flowering crabwas not planted until a month later, when a special program was presented. This program included a tribute to Relief Society by W. E. Criddle, a poem "I Planted a Tree," and a violin solo, "Trees." Joseph F. Spendlove offered the dedicatory prayer."
North Sanpete Stake (Mount Pleasant, Utah)
"TALULA F. NELSON and Johanna O. Peel, presidents, respectively, of the Mount Pleasant North and South Ward Relief Societies, sent the following account of a joint celebration held March 17, 1942: "The two Mt. Pleasant Wards of the North Sanpete Stake Relief Society, with Ruby S. Jensen, stake president, celebrated the centennial birthday of Relief Society on March 17 in the South Ward chapel. The radio broadcast from the Relief Society General Board over KSL the morning of March 17 was an inspirational setting for the day for all those who listened. All members and eligible members of the Relief Society and their partners, were invited to assemble at eleven o'clock in the morning. As the guests entered, each wrote his name on a sheet of paper. This list of names, along with a description of the activities of the day, notes about present world conditions, and some relics were sealed up in a tin can to be opened in fifty years. "At twelve o'clock our program started in the recreation room by singing 'A Hundred Thousand Strong.' Prayer was offered by Patriarch Arthur O. Neilson. Following this, an old-fashioned hot dinner of beef stew with vegetables, and rice pudding was served in cafeteria style from three long tables. The serving was done by twelve menhusbands and sons of Relief Society membersdressed in white shirts, long white aprons, and white caps trimmed in blue. They looked handsome and were applauded as they came in to serve. "The program was varied and made interesting by touches of humor. Talks were given highlighting points in ward Relief Society history. Other features were a candle-lighting ceremony, the presentation of 100 birthday pennies to each ward Primary organization with responses from Primary children, the singing of 'Happy Birthday,' modern and old-time dancing in costume, and the unveiling of centennial quilts. The program included a short pageant. Since quilting is a typical Relief Society activity, each ward made a special quilt for this occasion. The North Ward quilt was a beautiful creationred and blue on a white background. The South Ward quilt was blue and gold, with the names of all present ward Relief Society members embroidered in blue in a triangle on a gold background, and the border was quilted in a sego lily design. It is intended that this quilt be preserved for a century. "After a short intermission, the sacred part of our program was presented in the chapel. The Singing Mothers sang two new songs composed for the occasion, and the transcribed messages of President Grant and President Lyman were played. In addition, a short history of the life of Margaret F. Cruckshank Morrison, who served forty years as first president of the Mt. Pleasant Relief Society, was told in combination radio and pageant form, with Alice J. Stewart representing Mrs. Morrison. The benediction was pronounced by Myranda S. P. Oman, eighty-five years of age. A dance with old-time music and refreshments furnished