Brotherhood Elder Harold B. Lee Member of the Council of the Twelve
IN sacred Jewish writings a parable is told of a man who saw in the distance an object that he supposed was a beast. As the object drew nearer he saw it was a man, and as it came still nearer he exclaimed, "It is my brother." Seldom do we see as the beast the man we really understand, for with closer association and a clearer understanding of the impulses and the circumstances that impel men to action we become more tolerant and more forgiving. If we could but learn the lesson taught by that parable there surely would be less of misunderstanding and of faultfinding, less of hatred and contention, less of strife and of bloodshed, but more of sympathy and forgiveness extended toward him who errs. The word "brotherhood" in common usage suggests a society or a fraternity of individuals or of groups banded together for a common purpose. More often than otherwise such purpose is selfish and the benefits of the society are limited to only those who comprise the group, and frequently the objective of the society, if achieved, works to the disadvantage or to the actual detriment of those outside of that brotherhood. Whether it be of individuals or of nations the principle is the same. We see before us today the awful spectacle of a devastating war between groups of nations, bound to each other within their own allied
Page 84
councils by solemn agreements, prompted not by mutual respect or admiration for each other, but impelled by a fear of each other or by a hope for selfish gains as the result and in the event of ultimate victory to their side. It should be clear to any thinking person that the promotion of such "brotherhoods" so-called, usually only serves to perpetuate strife, and that decisions arrived at between such groups are dictated by the force of might rather than on the basis of justice and equity. The establishment of a peace in the world that will be everlasting and so much to be desired will be possible if and when mankind can unite together in some kind of a fraternity where such brotherly relationships are characterized by love and affection. Some time ago there appeared in the New York Times a scholarly article prepared by a conference of eminent Catholic bishops entitled "Pronouncement by Catholic Bishops on Church and Social Welfare." The article dealt with the contending views of capital and labor and boldly criticized each faction for the evident selfishness and short-sightedness in their present plans and policies. Then it outlined a suggested course to be followed in order to overcome the conflicting views that presently exist. Here are the concluding words: "There must be a reform of morals and a profound renewal of Christian spirit.... To
BROTHERHOOD
do that it is argued that our economic life must be reorganized, and selfishness must be replaced by justice and charity." The answer of the Master to the question, "Master, which is the great commandment in the law?" runs to the same conclusion. "Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." (Matt. 22:36-39) A brotherhood that seeks to establish the common good is but as "sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal" except it be founded upon the divine principle of love of God and our neighbor as ourselves. One who says he loves God and is a follower of Jesus and yet hates his brother is false to himself and before the world, for no one can love God whom he has not seen and yet love not his brother whom he has seen. (I John 4:20.) The truest evidence that one loves God is that he keeps His commandments. (I John 2:3-4.) And if the loving of one's neighbor is the "second great commandment" then a brotherly relationship with our fellow men must be the measure of one's Christian standing. The logic of this reasoning is amply supported by the scriptures where the Lord is declared to be "the God of the spirits of all flesh" (Numbers 27:16), and is compared as the Father of our spirits to the fathers of our flesh to whom we give reverence. (Heb. 12:9.) Such a conception of the Fatherhood of God declares also a universal broth-
85
erhood of man. In such a family relationship, a love of a son for the Father and yet hatred of that son for others of his Father's offspring is hardly conceivable to the reasoning mind. To understand that man is created in the image of God is a soul-stirring contemplation, and every soul that hath this hope in him purifieth himself. (I John 3:3.) But what is necessary for one to discharge his responsibility toward his fellow men? This same question was undoubtedly in the mind of the lawyer who asked Jesus "And who is my neighbor?" In reply Jesus gave a parable (Luke 10:30-37): And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him. And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise. The moral of the Master's lesson is clear: He only is neighbor who does good to him who is in need.
Thy Neighbor
Who is thy neighbor? He whom thou Hast power to aid or bless. Whose aching heart or burning brow Thy soothing hand may press. Thy neighbor? 'Tis the fainting poor, Whose eye with want is dim; O enter thou his humble door With aid and peace for him.
THE influx of many strangers within our gates and the industrialization and militarization of many of our pastoral communities might well cause us to ponder the question as to our responsibility as neighbors to these strangers. Our pioneer parents, led by inspired leaders, came to this western land to establish "the mountain of the Lord's house in the top of the mountains." A prophet had declared that many people should say, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord," and also that the inhabitants of the House of the God of Jacob were to teach these newcomers "of his ways and to walk in his paths." (Isa. 2:2-3.) To the Latter-day Saints the Lord has entrusted a great responsibility as the keepers of the House of the Lord thus established. Paul, the great missionary apostle, defined the purpose of the establishment of the Church of Christ as being for "the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, and for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come in the unity of the faith...." Since the time when Moses led the children of Israel out of Egypt the principle of gathering the members of the Church into communities has been taught. The Latter-day Saints have been taught this principle by revelations from the Lord. Here, in such communities, without hindrance or molestation from those who refuse to accept fellowship in the Church and Kingdom of God, it has been found that the members of the Church thus established can better work out their social, economic and religious problems than would be possible without such gathering. If, to satisfy the critics of the practice of the Latter-day Saints in gathering together for mutual improvement, we were to encourage promiscuous social intercourse with the stranger regardless of his standards and by so doing sacrifice the ideals of morality, of marriage, and of family for which our parents sacrificed much, we would not only be untrue to our heritage but we would thereby decrease immeasurably our power "to do good to him that is in need." Obedient to the command of the Master, reiterated in our generation, we have sent and will continue to send missionaries not only to carry the Gospel to the stranger within our gates but to "every nation, kindred, tongue and people." And for what purpose? To welcome all "who fear God and give glory to Him" to accept membership in the greatest "brotherhood" in the world, the Church of Christ established in the last days. Can one conceive of a greater service to be rendered to those who may come to us than to bring to them the opportunities and privileges of the Gospel and into fellowship with those who live righteous lives? To you who would administer succor and be a neighbor to the poor and the needy, I would bid you heed the inspired admonition, "and though I bestow all my goods to

BROTHERHOOD
feed the poor,... And have not charity, I am nothing." (I Cor. 13:3.) It would be well if all who dispense charity would do so with a reverent appreciation of their divine relationship to that one so assisted and do it in a manner suggested by the Savior's declaration, that as you would do it unto one such needy you would do it as a service to him. (Matt. 25:40.) In all such ministering it is well to remember that there are broken hearts and wounded souls among us that need the tender care of a brother who has an understanding heart and is kind. Today there may be heard again in Israel the voice of a Rachel "weeping for her children, and would not be comforted because they are not" when the cruel blasts of war shall bring the sad news of disaster. She must be soothed with tenderness by sisters worthy to bear the name of this great brotherhood of saints. May the "kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come," (D.& C. 65:6) that
87
God's "will be done in earth as it is in heaven." (Matt. 6:10.) May we let our lights so shine (Matt. 5:16) as members of the Church of God that others seeing our good works and that we are not of the world (John 15:19) will come to seek membership therein. May we sense the fact that true love for our neighbor consists not in descending to his level but rather in so living that we aid him in an upward climb. May we never forget that in this great fellowship, our ears must ever be inclined to hear the cry of the widow and the orphan and that in our ministrations to all such we do as we think the Master would have us do. Thus, if we do, and if we teach others to do likewise, ours will be the brotherhood to fill the whole earth and bring about that peace on earth when the powers of darkness will be eternally bound with the everlasting chains of righteousness at the hands of God's children.
"Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest can repair; the rest is in the hands of God." George Washington, Speech to the Constitutional Convention (1787)
"The preservation of the sacred fire of liberty, and the destiny of the republican model of government, are justly considered as deeply, perhaps as finally, staked on the experiment entrusted to the hands of the American people."George Washington, First Inaugural (1789)