Planned Spring Cleaning Gertrude R. Garff Member of Relief Society General Board OU American women have a tremendous job to do. A home kept clean, tidy, harmonious, and beautiful... Good meals served graciously... A wife and mother who can take her work in her stride and come up glowing and unruffled to enjoy and be enjoyed by her family at the end of the daythese things are growing daily more vital to a sane indomitable America in a tense world." So says Dr. Louis E. Bisch, psychiatrist. True as is the above statement, it's asking a great deal of us women with spring cleaning practically upon us, especially this year with help so scarce we will have to do much of the work ourselves. Yes, it is asking a great deal, but the resourcefulness of womankind has never been denied, and with a little careful planning this problem can be solved successfully. Are you one of those housewives who favors a grand upheaval, ripping the house apart from top to bottom, wearing herself to shreds, and the family also, before everything is clean and in its place again? If you are, why not "plan" your seasonal cleaning this year so that the family will realize the cleaning has been completed not by the wear and tear on their dispositions, but by the shining beauty of their surroundings? I can almost hear many of you saying skeptically, "Interesting, if true." Let me say that it can be true, and to prove it I'll give you my plan, which may be easily adapted to large or small houses and households. Page 116 I won't take space to tell you how to clean lampshades or do minor repair jobs, etc., because you may find all these directions in America's Housekeeping Book, the textbook for the Home Topic lessons of 1942- 43. This book answers almost anything one needs to know in connection with housekeeping. I start housecleaning late in February or early in March, depending upon the weather, and devote one or two days a week to cleaning until Ihave finished. First I tour the house with a note book in my hand, and note down a list of the needed repair jobs. This year, of course, there won't be any grand scale painting, etc., for obvious reasons, but there will be plenty of little things that always need fixing, such as a loose doorknob or a drawer that sticks. When I have completed my list, I then see that all these repairs are attended to before I start in on the real housecleaning. This is also the time I make new curtains or covers, etc. It's such a wonderful feeling to have them ready to use when the right times comes. MY first plunge takes me to the attic and basement. These floors need a regular cleaning and overhauling, especially now in wartime when so many of the useless articles that have accumulated over a period of years may be vitally needed and given away to swell the rubber, brass, or copper piles. I also start a pile consisting of clothing and household articles not needed in the war effort, to give to the Deseret Industries, PLANNED SPRING CLEANING adding to this pile as my housecleaning progresses. When I was in the mission field the rule was laid down that my companion and I should change our residence every three months. We decided that the real reason was not to make contacts with more people as much as to get rid of unnecessary articles. Today, my spring cleaning serves the same purpose to me as a move, and is much more easily accomplished. After the attic and basement are attended to (and my husband usually helps with the hard cleaning there), I turn my attention to the kitchen, back hall and bath. At this point I can't resist mentioning how I wash walls and painted surfaces. All my walls except two bedrooms happen to be covered with walltex of a slightly rough texture. First I wash these walls with a mild solution of tri-sodium-sulphate, and then rinse them with a solution of diluted cooked starch. You will be surprised how easily the soil will come off at the next claning time since the dirt will all be on the starch. In my kitchen I first clean the cupboards and dishes, then the ceiling and walls and finally the floors. The house doesn't seem half so dirty with these rooms fresh and clean. The next job I undertake is cleaning and straightening all dresser drawers, the rest of the cupboards, and closets. Everything is taken out and drawers, walls, and shelves are washed thoroughly. I also use a good spray if there is danger from moths. Fresh paper is placed in the drawers and I begin to restore order. This is the time I add to the material for the Deseret Industries, discarding 117 those articles I can't use or make over for the children. Out-of-season clothes are hung away in moth proof bags, and place is made for articles to be needed in the near future. I then clean the two wall papered bedrooms, first washing the curtains so they can be ironed and hung when all else is done. The walls and ccilings are cleaned with a dough-like preparation, with a thorough brushing afterward to remove crumbs that may cling to walls and baseboards. After I have washed the woodwork and windows, I then do the floors, scrubbing the one bedroom rug or sending it out to be cleaned, and cleaning and waxing the wooden  floor of the other bedroom. Since the children's bedroom has washable walls I clean them when I do the front hall, the procedure being much the same as for the kitchen and bath. The final windup brings me to the living and dining rooms. Draperies are cleaned so they will be ready to hang when all other cleaning in these rooms is completed. I make good use of the vacuum appliances on upholstered furniture, etc. After the walls, windows, and woodwork have been washed, and the carpeted floor vacuumed (or cleaned if the carpet needs cleaning), and furniture polished, I hang the draperies, replace pictures, lamps and bric-a-brac. By cleaning according to this plan doing a little each week and starting eafly in the seasonyour housecleaning may be accomplished without exerting much more effort than would be expended on your regular cleaning days. Yes, it is wonderful what a little planning will do to make your housecleaning easy!