Literature The Bible as Literature
Lesson 8 Illustrations of Great Themes in Bible Literature and the Influence of the Bible upon Our Lives (Tuesday, May 18, 1943)
Objective: To suggest the relation of some of the great themes in the Bible to our own lives.
Lesson Topics
1. Personalities of the Bible continuedMary of Nazareth
2. The theme of the Bible as a whole
3. A few specific Bible themes
4. The influence of the Bible upon our daily lives
Mary of Nazareth
The last lesson considered Eve, the first woman, the mother of mankind. We shall now turn to Mary, the mother of Jesus, the greatest of all mankind. Mary knew the heights of joy and the depths of sorrow. She was of the royal tribe of Judah, but was reared as a humble Nazarene maiden, becoming betrothed to a carpenter, Joseph. We can scarcely imagine her astonishment when the Angel Gabriel appeared to her and said: "Hail,... Blessed art thou among women," and told her of her mission. After she had comprehended the meaning of his words, she visited Elizabeth and uttered her joy in a triumphal song, similar to the one Hannah sang when she blessed the Lord for the gift of her son Samuel. After Mary's return from her three months' visit with her cousin, Elizabeth, Joseph's nobility of character is shown in the fact that he, "... Not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily." But the angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and informed him that Mary's condition was a cause of honor and rejoicing, not of shame and mourning, because she was to bear the Son of God. In the Book of Mormon, Nephi 11:13-21, Nephi saw in vision the Virgin and the Son of God and when he was asked by an angel what he
saw, he replied: "A virgin, most beautiful and fair above all other virgins." Some of the incidents in the life of Jesus must have had a remarkable effect upon his mother. For instance, there was the time when she and Joseph brought Jesus, a baby, to the temple at Jerusalem to present Him to the Lord. The faithful Simeon, waiting for the fulfillment of the promise that he would see the Christ before he died, took Him up in his arms. He acknowledged that this promise had now been made good. This must have been a proud and happy moment for the young mother. But, as said before, she tasted deepest sorrow, too. Even Simeon foresaw suffering for Jesus and for Mary. He told her, "Yea, a sword shall pierce through thy own soul also;" Indeed, her soul must have been pierced many times during the years that followed. There was the time, while He was still a lad, when she thought He was lost and found Him in the temple talking with the wise men. Great as her relief must have been when she found Him unharmed, it was not unmixed joy, for she was made to realize even at that early time that their lives would be separated by His divine mission. His words: "Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" brought home to her the fact that she was His mother, but that He was the Son of God. When He began preaching a strange doctrine and performing miracles and some people began to hate Him and say false things about Him, Mary suffered. But when the
137
multitudes followed Him from place to place to hear Him speak and to be healed of their infirmities, she rejoiced in His power. Then came His crucifixion. The Apostle John, who himself witnessed the tragic event from a point near the cross, records the pathetic incident. She stood nearby, her mother-heart breaking at the agony Jesus was enduring. It must have been a comfort to her in the days that followed to know that in that dreadful hour her Son's sympathy went out to her. It would seem that He knew her need of a son to support her in this dark trial and He gave to her His friend John. He said, "Woman, behold thy son!" and to John, "Behold thy mother! And from that hour that disciple took her unto his own home." Mr. Done points out that there is something pathetic and beautiful in this incident. Jesus, whose work had made Him almost an exile from home for years, recognized the purity and strength of mother love and hallowed it by making it the last tie that bound him to earth. Having made provision for His mother with one who should be a tender guardian, He had no further duty to perform. Mr. Done says, "Surely no higher recognition of the sacred tie of motherhoodthe acme of the development of true womanhoodcan be thought of than this." "Mary revealed her faith and humility in her immediate surrender of herself to the divine will though she knew not how it was to be accomplished; she revealed her energy and earnestness in her journey to Hebron; her happy thankfulness in her song of joy; her loyalty and trust in keeping her Son's words in her heart, though she could not fully understand them. So far as Mary is portrayed in the Scriptures she is all we should have expected, the most tender, the most faithful, humble, patient, and loving of women, but a woman still." This concluding lesson of the introductory course in Bible literature will consider some of the themes in the great book.
The Theme of the Bible as a Whole
Such questions as these, humanity has continued to ask since the beginning of time: What is the meaning of the world? Is God my Father? Can I trust Him? What are my relations to my fellow men? Who was Christ and what is His mission? Answers to these questions form the great themes which merge into the all-inclusive theme of the Biblethe study of man and his struggle toward salvation. As Clayton S. Cooper says in his book, The Bible and Modern Life, "The Bible spreads out before us God's plan for human existence." For this reason, in all times men have come to the Scriptures to find the visions of life and its plan where, as Matthew Arnold says: The eye sinks inward, and the heart lies plain, And what we say we mean, and what we would, we know. A man becomes aware of his life's flow, And hears its winding murmur. The theme is righteousness, for the Bible strikes down injustice and wrong wherever these are found. "It is the book of right, of integrity, of sincerity, and reality." It is God's revelation of Himself to His childrena revelation which Lyman Abbott declares to be "unparalleled for its strength and beauty by any other of the world's great literatures."
Some Specific Bible Themes
This general theme, as indicated above, can be broken up into many themes such as human suffering as developed in the Book of Job; the inspiration and solace of nature, as portrayed in the Psalms; loyalty and obedience as shown in the story of Ruth; precepts for practical living as exemplified in the Proverbs. Though the stories of Ruth and Esther are so unlike in structure, setting, and character, they both have the same theme. Ruth is a peasant, Esther a queen; the story of Ruth is an idyl (a simple narrative story of country scenes and life), and that of Esther is a drama with all the dramatic motivation and suspense of a modern production; though the events in the stories occur eight hundred years apart, yet each story develops the theme of nobility of soul amid sore trials. Reverend James M. Whiton says of Ruth: "The theme is common, yet one that we weary of no more than of the grass and flowers." Ruth shows filial piety, devotion, courage, self-respect. This story beautifies with the tenderest sympathy a relationship that is often fruitful of antipathythat between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law. We see a blighted life made, through the struggle of devoted love, to bloom again. With the story of Esther we come into a larger world. But here we
have the same theme, the same dominant spiritthe "high resolve, the steadfast constancy that 'Grasps the skirts of happy chance And breasts the blows of circumstance.'" The reward for facing hard circumstances courageously is more alluring as presented here than in the earlier story, but is of the same kind. In the setting of the story of Esther we have "regal splendor, despotic power, sensual passion, intriguing servility, murderous revenge." "And here on this dark and stormy sea," says Reverend Whiton, "is a young woman, gifted with beauty, discretion, courage, who masters these menacing elements and becomes the savior of her people.... This story of Esther is not only material for the noblest and gentlest meditation, but a token that in daily eventsthe unforeseen chancesof life, in the little unremembered acts, in the fall of a sparrow, in the earth bringing forth fruit of herself, God is surely present. The name of God is not there, but the work of God is." From many points of view the Book of Job is one of the greatest in the Bible. It is truly superb as literature which has been defined as "those books wherein moral truth and human passion are touched with a certain largeness, sanity, and attraction of form." Dr. Genung says:... If we apply such a definition to the Book of Job, we will find that the book retains, in enhanced significance, all the good that other methods of approach have yielded, while it also gains beyond expression in its meaning for our common human nature. It becomes, as Carlyle has defined it, an "all men's book"; we recognize in it
139
the pulsing soul of the wide world before that soul had shut itself up in prejudice or belief or narrowness of doctrine; and yet after it has been so "salted by fire" as to be deeply aware of the mystery of existence. The last three wordsthe "mystery of existence" is the theme of this great masterpiece. It is at that point alone that it can be touched in this lesson, although a course in Bible literature could not be complete without a full lesson or two on other literary aspects of this great work. In the presentation of the theme the author introduces highly dramatic elements. We see Job on his ash heap, in darkness and misery. He is groaning with disease. He is deserted and scorned by his friends. But he remains absolutely honest with himself and loyal to his friends. At times it seems that even God is against him, but he remains steadfast to his ideal as his faith battles its way up to victory in the survival of good and right beyond the tomb. "Here is the great law of the spiritual life, that the true service of God is not work for reward; it is heart-loyalty, a hunger after God's presence, which survives loss and chastisement; which in spite of contradictory meaning cleaves to what is godlike, and reaches up out of the darkness and hardness of this life to light and love beyond." The debate on the question why the righteous suffer is "only the wordy vehicle whereby the littleness of men, their false dignity, their hidebound traditions, their dogmatic intolerance, their vanity of knowledge beat against the great rock-soul of the patriarch as he wages his battle." This central theme is for all men in all times. In it is vitally involved the spiritual evolution of manhood. "In this masterpiece the heart of the author of Job beats in unison with the heart of the world... Sending forth the cry of those who see through a glass darkly, blinding nothing of the terror and dread, yet in the face of it all, assuming that attitude which for life and character is the true solution of the world's enigma. Human race that from the depth of the inexplicable mystery one voice has learned to say, 'I know that my Redeemer liveth.' No greater utterance has ever illumined the pages of literature."
Application of Bible Themes to Our Own Lives
It is because these great Biblical themes strike the deepest chords of both the human and the divine in man that they are of such inestimable value in our daily lives. When we see how others have met such problems as Ruth, as Esther, as Joseph, as Moses, as Job, as Jesus Himself had to meet, we learn better how to meet our own. Every book in the Bible presents themes the application of which would strengthen our characters and enrich our lives. The books of the Apocrypha, as well as those of the Bible proper, offer these great themes. At the beginning of the Apocrypha, for instance, we come upon a noble passage, in the First Book of Esdras. It is a short story which answers the eternal question: What is the strongest thing in the world? The answer which won the prize is the same answer the majority of men would give today"Truth is mighty above all things." So the Bible considered alone as literature is a light to guide us in our daily lives. The influence of the Bible upon the lives of men is suggested by the many tributes paid to it by men in different walks of life. A few of them follow: The King James revisers said in 1611: If we be ignorant, the Scriptures will instruct us; if out of the way, they will bring us home; if out of order, they will reform us; if in heaviness, comfort us; if dull, quicken us; if cold, inflame us. Lincoln wrote to a friend: I am profitably engaged in reading the Bible. Take all of this book upon reason that you can, and the balance on faith, and you will live and die a better man. Napoleon I declared that by reading the Bible "not only is one's mind absorbed, it is controlled, and the soul can never go astray with this book for its guide." Ruskin advises: Read your Biblemake it your daily business to obey it in all that you understand. To my early knowledge of the Bible I owe the best part of my taste in literature. It is well for the whole
Lesson Helps
1. Tell the story alluded to above in the First Book of Esdras, chapters 3 and 4.
2. Choose other stories or sections of the Bible which develop themes of vital importance in our lives today.
3. Find additional testimonies from great men of the past and present whose lives have been greatly influenced by the Bible.
4. How has the Bible helped you?
5. Give choice passages you have memorized.
References Talmage, James E., Jesus the Christ, pp. 75-87