general presidents of Relief Society was represented, dressed in the style of her time, and each gave a short explanation of the work accomplished in Relief Society while she was president, in answer to questions asked her by "Dr. Quiz. Then each former president of the ward organization was honored, and some of her accomplishments were mentioned. Nine of our eleven presidents were present, the other two being CENTENNIAL LUNCHEON Pioneer Ward, Utah Stake.  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 125 CENTENNIAL TREE-PLANTING Milton Ward, Morgan Stake ceased. Luncheon was served in the amusement hall at long tables. The president's table was centered with a beautifully decorated, tiered birthday cake trimmed in blue and gold, with 100 blue and gold candles on it. Over the top was an arch on which were inscribed the words 'Charity Never Faileth." Our tree-planting ceremony consisted of talks and musical numbers, the dedication being made by our ward bishop. A spirit of companionship and sisterly love prevailed throughout the observance, and all who participated in this occasion will long remember: Morgan Stake (Morgan, Utah) MARGARET WHITTIER, former president of the Milton Ward Relief Society, reviewed this ward's centennial activities as follows: "We observed the one-hundredth birthday of the Relief Society in the Milton Ward Chapel, Tuesday, March 17, 1942. The program commenced at two o'clock and consisted of song, music, and Relief Society history. Margaret Whittier gave the opening address of welcome. Two of the outstanding features of the occasion were the participation on the program of elderly members of our Society, and the playing of the recorded messages from President Heber J. Grant and President Amy Brown Lyman. After the program, a banquet was held in the recreation hall. The table was centered with a beautifully decorated birthday cake iced in Relief Society colors, topped with the number 100 in gold. Cynthia Criddle, oldest past Relief Society president in the ward, cut the cake. Due to weather conditions, our centennial treea flowering crabwas not planted until a month later, when a special program was presented. This program included a tribute to Relief Society by W. E. Criddle, a poem "I Planted a Tree," and a violin solo, "Trees." Joseph F. Spendlove offered the dedicatory prayer."
North Sanpete Stake (Mount Pleasant, Utah)
"TALULA F. NELSON and Johanna O. Peel, presidents, respectively, of the Mount Pleasant North and South Ward Relief Societies, sent the following account of a joint celebration held March 17, 1942: "The two Mt. Pleasant Wards of the North Sanpete Stake Relief Society, with Ruby S. Jensen, stake president, celebrated the centennial birthday of Relief Society on March 17 in the South Ward chapel. The radio broadcast from the Relief Society General Board over KSL the morning of March 17 was an inspirational setting for the day for all those who listened. All members and eligible members of the Relief Society and their partners, were invited to assemble at eleven o'clock in the morning. As the guests entered, each wrote his name on a sheet of paper. This list of names, along with a description of the activities of the day, notes about present world conditions, and some relics were sealed up in a tin can to be opened in fifty years. "At twelve o'clock our program started in the recreation room by singing 'A Hundred Thousand Strong.' Prayer was offered by Patriarch Arthur O. Neilson. Following this, an old-fashioned hot dinner of beef stew with vegetables, and rice pudding was served in cafeteria style from three long tables. The serving was done by twelve menhusbands and sons of Relief Society membersdressed in white shirts, long white aprons, and white caps trimmed in blue. They looked handsome and were applauded as they came in to serve. "The program was varied and made interesting by touches of humor. Talks were given highlighting points in ward Relief Society history. Other features were a candle-lighting ceremony, the presentation of 100 birthday pennies to each ward Primary organization with responses from Primary children, the singing of 'Happy Birthday,' modern and old-time dancing in costume, and the unveiling of centennial quilts. The program included a short pageant. Since quilting is a typical Relief Society activity, each ward made a special quilt for this occasion. The North Ward quilt was a beautiful creationred and blue on a white background. The South Ward quilt was blue and gold, with the names of all present ward Relief Society members embroidered in blue in a triangle on a gold background, and the border was quilted in a sego lily design. It is intended that this quilt be preserved for a century. "After a short intermission, the sacred part of our program was presented in the chapel. The Singing Mothers sang two new songs composed for the occasion, and the transcribed messages of President Grant and President Lyman were played. In addition, a short history of the life of Margaret F. Cruckshank Morrison, who served forty years as first president of the Mt. Pleasant Relief Society, was told in combination radio and pageant form, with Alice J. Stewart representing Mrs. Morrison. The benediction was pronounced by Myranda S. P. Oman, eighty-five years of age. A dance with old-time music and refreshments furnished

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 127
CENTENNIAL LUNCHEON Pocatello First Ward, Pocatello Stake
the evening's entertainment. Many expressions of appreciation came to us that this had been a perfect day."
Pocatello Stake (Pocatello, Idaho)
ANNA HAWKES, secretary of the Pocatello First Ward Relief Society, reports its centennial observance as follows: "Our centennial celebration was very successful. The day was lovely, and as members entered the chapel they heard the strains of organ music, and were greeted by our Relief Society officers. Our chorus, under the direction of Lola Sebiess, chorister, and Sue Bowen, organist, gave a fine rendition of 'Spirit of God,' 'My Heart is a Silent Violin,' and 'Peace I Leave With You.' Our play, "The Organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo,' was taken from the March 1932 issue of the Magazine, and was directed by Lucile Pack, with Helen West as the reader. The play was very well acted, and all who took part in it deserve our praise. The candle-lighting ceremony was very impressive. The reader, Melvina Sutton, gave a tribute to each of the eight general presidents of Relief Society while the candles were being lighted." A luncheon, served to 176 guests, was also part of the festivities (see accompanying picture). "All in all, the whole program was praiseworthy, and everyone enjoyed it. Members were given a memento of the occasion as they left." Bessie Capell is president of this ward Relief Society.
CENTENNIAL LUNCHEON Maywood Ward, South Los Angeles Stake
South Los Angeles Stake (Huntington Park, California)
THE accompanying picture shows the members of the Maywood Ward Relief Society, of which Florence Kuffer is president, who participated in a centennial party on March 17. Approximately 140 members attended. The party included a program and a lunch at which a large birthday cake was ceremoniously cut. Relief Society officers dressed in costumes typical of those worn in 1842.
Seattle Stake (Seattle, Washington)
"THE centennial observance of the Bellingham Ward Relief Society was recognized in the Bellingham Herald of March 15, 1942, according to a newspaper clipping sent us by E. C. Petrie, ward clerk of this ward. This writeup gave a summary of the origin and purpose of Relief Society, and announced the proposed program to be held in the Bellingham Ward on the evening of March 17. It was stated that the program was to include a tree-planting ceremony at 10:30 Tuesday morning, and that the evening program would include a pageant portraying the eight general presidents of Relief Society posed in a large picture frame. Berneice Quakenbush was president of this ward at the time of the centennial, Ella M. Petrie being the present president. We appreciate the thoughtfulness of Brother Petrie in sending us this clipping.

LESSON DEPARTMENT