Amy Brown Lyman Honored Counselor Marcia K. Howells
NEW and distinct honor has been accorded our beloved president, Amy Brown Lyman. She was selected January 26, 1943, by the Salt Lake City Council of Women to fill a'niche in its Hall of Fame. Only three times in the past ten years has this. Distinguished group chosen a few of their number "whom they delight to honor." They have selected women from the leaders of the community because of outstanding devotion to public welfare and civic betterment. At this time when women are contributing so much to preserve cur way of life and safeguard our homes and country, recognition for achievement is very important. Interesting is the fact that the Salt Lake City Council should honor Amy Brown Lyman at this time, when she is general president of Relief Society, an organization with a century of rich experience as a background and characterized by devoted service to humanity. As president of Relief Society, Sister Lyman is giving inspirational guidance to 115,000 women. In addition to her Church activity, President Lyman is recognized as an authority on social welfare work, She is listed in Who's Who in America, American Women, Women of the West, and Principal Women of America. Standards by which women are selected by the Salt Lake City Council of Women for its Hall of Fame are: outstanding and unselfish service to the community during a great part of life; notable civic service and Page 110 AMY BROWN LYMAN social betterment; and outstanding personality. Before the seven women were chosen, important facts were carefully considered, such as heritage and background, birth, education, civic and business affiliation, patriotic service, and inspirational activities. Six other living women were elected to the Hall of Fame this year, sharing this honor with our president. They are Dr. Maud May Babcock, for many years head of the speech department of the University of Utah; Judge Reva Beck Bosone, nationally recognized for her judicial work; Mrs. R. W. Fisher, Chaplain of the Salt Lake City Council of Women; Mrs. W. S. Core, a teacher of citizenship to the foreign-born; (Continued on page 120) Womans Sphere: Ramona W. Cannon THE United States is to be congratulated upon the character of her women military leaders. Oveta Culp Hobby, WAAC (Women's Army Auxiliary Corps) commander, has. Been a state parliamentarian, lawyer, newspaper executive, bank director, author, and political worker. She is the charming wife of a former governor of Texas, and mother of two children. Dr. Mildred McAfee, lieutenant commander of more than 10,000 WAVE'S (Navy's Women Appointed for Volunteer Emergency Service), was president of Wellesley College, and has been a beloved teacher, church worker, and dean of women. Mrs. Nancy Harkness Love, 28, commander of the WAFS (Women's Auxiliary Ferrying Squadron), has practiced many types of flying, with 1200 hours to her credit. Possibly the 500 or 600 qualifying as WAFS will pilot army bombers into war zones. Lieutenant commander Dorothy Stratton of the SPARS ("Semper paratus'""Always Ready,' Women's Coast Guard Reserve), is also an exceptional woman. Julia Flikke, motherly 63-year-old widow, has directed nurses since she took 100 of them to France in World War I. First American woman to rank as colonel, she now commands 31,000 nurses, some of whom are serving in Iceland, Alaska, England, Australia, Africa, India and the Solomons. IDEAS of notable women on how to win the peace. Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands: Nations must conquer their desire for revenge and aim at justice for all. Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt: Women of many nations have earned the tight to representation at the peace table and should be preparing themselves for such responsibility. Dorothy Thompson: United States' genius for production should be directed toward the abolishment of slums, the creation of a network of high grade hospitals that would leave no community unprovided for, and other social betterment. Pearl Buck: We must truly cooperate with the Eastern races, but, in order to do so, we must study and understand them. Helen Keller: We are responsible for other lives, for gentleness, for culture and progress. We must give now of our love and our free spirit, not to nations or peoples, but "just the vast humanity that is being poured out in blood and anguish." We must have equal rights and opportunities for all persons, and breathe the spirit of American democracy more invincibly than our enemies have spread their propaganda of tyranny and viciousness. Page 11 EDITORIAL cm Vol. 30 Our Freedom and Responsibilities IN this month of February 1943, when Americans in every walk of life are struggling valiantly to preserve and protect the American way of life, the birthday anniversaries of two great statesmen, George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, serve to remind us of the heroic struggles of the past that have given us the freedoms and the opportunities which we so jealously defend today, and impress upon us anew our duties and responsibilities toward our Government. Prophets of old declared this continent a land of promisea land of promise because of the fertility of its soil, the extensiveness of its streams, the preciousness of its ores "in which this land... Doth abound most plentifully"; a land of promise because God through his prophets declared it so. The Prophet Lehi said: "Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom He shall bring. And if it so be that they shall serve Him according to the commandments which He hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them." The truly great statesmen whose ideals and labors have helped to establish the American way of life, which we so highly prize today, were righteous men, having in their hearts a love for humanity and a sincere desire for the welfare of their brothers. We have only to read the lives of such men as Washington, Lincoln, and others to see that their Page 112 hearts were filled with the desire to promote the freedom and well-being of their fellow men. The spirit of God actuates all men whose desires are righteous and who unselfishly work for the good of mankind. "By means of this spirit, every man is enlightened... Each in accordance with his capacity to receive the light." Inspired by the Father, our early American statesmen gave us the Constitution whereby we enjoy the greatest freedom of any people on earth. The Prophet Joseph Smith referred to the Constitution of the United States as "a glorious standard... Founded in the wisdom of God." The Lord has told us through revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith that "Governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that He holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them for the good and safety of Society." Early in the History of the Church the Prophet Joseph Smith declared one of the fundamental tenets of Mormonism to be: "We believe in being subject to kings, rulers, presidents, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law." The true Latter-day Saint yields obedience to the law because of his firm belief in the eternal fact that a successful society can only be built upon voluntary obedience by all of February 1943 No. 2 EDITORIAL its members to the laws which govern it. The Savior unequivocally endorsed obedience to law when He said: "Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's, and unto God the things which are God's." George Washington in his Farewell Address said: "I believe every citizen should support the Government when final action is taken, whether he approves of the action or not." Yet even while yielding obedience to unjust law, it is the duty of everyone to use every lawful means in his power to bring about those changes which will make the laws of the government under which he lives more nearly conform to righteous principles. Fortunate indeed are we who live in this land of freedom where freedom of speech is lawful; where we may openly seek changes which we believe are for the betterment of our nation. Yet always must we remember that great blessings bring great responsibilities, and we must be sensitive to the responsibility 113 which accompanies the blessings of free speech. Let us not mistake liberty for license. From the Articles of Faith we see that obedience to law is not enough; we must also honor and sustain the law. As we obey, honor, and sustain the laws of the land even in the smallest matters, so we become better prepared to live above man-made laws and become fit subjects of the One Righteous King. This is a day when Latter-day Saints would do well to search the Scriptures for the promises made by the Father to this great nation. It is a time when we would do well to familiarize ourselves with the struggles of the past and the contributions of great men who have advanced this nation as a land of liberty. It is a time when we should meditate upon what is required of each individual as a citizen in this land of promise. Picture Presented Jo General Board Elder George Albert Smith honored the General Board of Relief Society at its meeting on January 13, 1943, by personally presenting to the General Board a copy of a colored drawing, in size about fifteen by twenty-four inches, of Lucy Mack Smith, which he and Elder Preston Nibley had discovered recently while on a visit to Illinois. In making the presentation, Elder Smith recited a few of the major events in the life of Lucy Mack Smith, revered mother of the Prophet Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and also spoke some words of encouragement and commendation, as well as counsel to the General Board which were greatly appreciated.. The picture, a photograph of which serves as a frontispiece to this issue of the Magazine, is highly prized by the General Board, and will be hung in ene of the General Board rooms. Woted. TO THE FIELD Food Production and Processing Program Featured By Public Schools HE "Production and Processing of Food for Farm Family Use," is the title of the course in the Rural War Production Training Program which is now under way in 10,000 rural high schools of America. The program is sponsored by the United States Office of Education in cooperation with State Boards for Vocational Education and rural high schools. Persons over seventeen years of age are eligible to enroll in the courses which are offered free to the public. Competent instructors and leaders are employed to carry on the instruction and supervision of the program. Ten or more meetings constitute the formal instruction; and supervision and follow up by vocational teachers is a feature. The course on the production and processing of food is aimed at helping the heads of farm families to plan the family food budget and produce, Anniversary MARCH 17, 1943, Relief Society will be 101 years of age. Anniversary day this year, as always, will be recognized by the local Societies throughout the Church. The General Board is issuing no special suggestions for programs for this day, leaving entirely with the local Societies the planning of appropriate observances.; However, the General Board still has on hand some of the mimeographed material which was listed in Page 114 process, and conserve the necessary food to meet their needs. Skills, abilities, and information incident to the growing of the Victory Garden, home poultry flock, home milk supply, canning and caring of meat, preserving fruit and vegetables will. Be featured in the course. Every farm family can perform a fine patriotic service to our country and the whole cause of freedom by producing and preserving the food it needs from the resources on the home farm. The primary purpose of the course is to help American citizens to do this, so that food produced in commercial quantities can be shipped to our armed forces and our Allies. All persons interested in the course are urged to contact their local high school principal, vocational agricultural or homemaking teacher. Day Program bulletin No. 21, issued November 12, 1941, suitable for a commemorative Relief Society program either on or near March 17, or for the Sunday evening meeting on March 7. This may be had upon request as long as the supply lasts. It is suggested also that the recently issued A Centenary of Relief Society contains valuable historical material which migh be helpful in planning anniversary programs. Suggestions for the Relief Society NOTES TO THE FIELD meeting which is scheduled for the evening of Fast Day, March 7, 1943, have been prepared by the General Board. These suggestions appear in the January issue of theNew Serial THE problems and experiences of two people with different backgrounds who marry and live on a desert are graphically portrayed in a new serial, "Tomorrow's Cup," by Anna Prince Redd, which will begin in the March issue of the Magazine. 'The struggles and heartaches as well as the joys of the young heroine, are absorbingly revealed as the plot unfolds to its final solution. You will want to read every installment of this serial which has as its background the fabled San Juan country. Mrs. Redd, who has spent many years in this part of Utah, first as a teacher and later as a wife, is well qualified to picture for the reader the beauty and vastness of the region. 'This is the first time Mrs. Redd has been represented in the Magazine in the field of fiction although her poems, articles of prose and a one-act play are already familiar to our readers. Acknowledgment HE General Board wishes to acknowledge the beautiful and colorful Christmas and New Year greeting cards which were received from many of the stakes and missions of the Church. These expressions of remembrance and good will are greatly appreciated and tend to form a bond of friendship and sisterly love at this most joyful season of the year.