Silent Strings Blanche Kendall McKey Second Prize, Relief Society Short Story Contest
WITH more certainty than she had ever felt before, on that late July afternoon, Sheila admitted to herself that she was old. It wasn't because she felt weak or defeated, judging herself as an actor in the life she had led. Rather, it was the realization that she had never been truly herself, and now it was too late. For sixty years she had heard the song of the untouched West with its inscrutable mountains, but she had never tried to sing or paint or write it. She had not used what was finest within her; in fact, she had never been an artist at all. And now she was old. The young Sheila she had beenwith her perky red curls and quizzical blue eyesseemed to stand literally before her faded gaze. She shook herself and crossed to the mirror over her dresser, pressing calloused palms to her creased cheeks, noting the grooves in her forehead and neck. Wind and the open plains had made her fair skin as dry as parchment. Studying the swollen veins of her hands, she saw youthful, tapering fingers reach across the strings of her aunt's harp in Dublin, her aunt who had been a celebrated musician and whose harp Sheila was to have inherited when she became eighteen. But when that birthday had arrived, she had looked across the scorched fields of Zion, to which her parents had fled ten years before, and thought of tapestries and a stately harp whose strings were silent, now that her aunt was dead.
Page 88
"I should have done better," thought Sheila bitterly; "I let little things crowd it all out." She thought of the garden, the children, the endless housework, and of her mother's long illness. "Why did I have such a heritage?" she asked. Then she looked at the picture of Colleen on her table and once more made a solemn resolution: Little Colleen, with the harp of Dublin hidden in her bosom, was going to have a chance to sing. "Are you ready, Aunt Sheila?" It was Elsie's warm voice calling from the kitchen, and thoughts of youth and unfulfilled longings fled. "Yes, I'm ready, my dear," Sheila replied; and tying a white scarf over her thinning gray hair she went out to the shady front porch. The poplars were casting thin