[Vol45 | November 1958 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
Three  Realms  in  Which  Woman's 
Influence  Should  Ever  Be 
Paramount 
President  David  O.  McKay 
(Address  Delivered  at  the  General  Session,  Relief  Society  General  Conference, 
Wednesday,  October  8,  1958) 
SISTER    Spafford,    sisters,    and  ence,  the  influence  your  President, 
brethren.    When  Sister  Long-  Sister    Spaflford,    exerted    over    in 
den    in    her    opening    prayer  London  recently  when  she  accept- 
said,  ''We  thank  thee  that  we  are  ed  the  appointment  to  attend  the 
women/'  I  said  amen  with  all  my  dedicatory   service   of   the   London 
heart.    When  I  think  of  what  you  Temple.     She    doesn't    know    the 
do,  the  responsibilities  you  carry  in  sources   from  which   I   express  the 
the  home  and  elsewhere,  and  the  thoughts  that  I  am  now  going  to 
sufferings  you  undergo,  I  am  thank-  give  you.     They  certainly  did  not 
ful  I  am  a  man.     (Laughter.)  come  from  her.    While  the  dedica- 
I  wish  to  offer  a  few  words  of  tory  service  was  going  on,  she  was 
commendation  and  congratulation,  the  guest  of  Lady  Reading  and  oth- 
I    congratulate    the    Relief    Society  ers,  and  rendered  a  wonderful  service 
upon  this  large  attendance.     If  you  which  will  redound  to  the  good  of 
all   come   next   Friday   morning,    I  Relief  Society  and  of  the  Church 
don't  know  what  we  will  do  with  generally.      I    received    two    letters 
the  men.  (Laughter.)  They  couldn't  from  Lady  Reading  in  which  she 
be  replaced  by  a  choicer  group  in  expressed  great  appreciation  for  her 
the  world  than  that  which  we  face  companionship  and  association  with 
this  afternoon.  your  President. 
With  all  my  heart  I  commend  the  I  commend  those  who  preceded 
Singing  Mothers.    Think  what  they  me  this  afternoon,  the  sisters,  and 
have  done  in  rendering  this  inspir-  the  messages  they  have  given,  and 
ing  service  this  afternoon!     Think  I  pray  for  the  same  inspiration  which 
of  four  hundred  of  them  attending  has    accompanied    them    in    their 
practices  in  their  various  wards  for  speaking.     This  has  indeed  been  a 
weeks  preceding  this  event!     Four  glorious  session.     I  pray  that  what 
hundred  women,  paying  their  rail-  I  say  may  be  in  harmony  with  the 
road  fare,  bus  fares  from  California,  instructions  given  by  your  leaders, 
and  their  own  expenses  while  they  We    are    living    in    a    changing 
are  here,  practicing  together  under  world.    We  are  in  the  midst  of  it, 
Sister  Madsen,  to  render  the  inspir-  so  near  us  that  many  of  us  fail  to 
ing  music!     I  wish   all  the  world  realize  or  discern  while  changes  are 
could    realize   what   their   presence  being  brought  about.    I  noticed  this 
and  their  singing  this  afternoon  real-  recently  when  we  were  being  driven 
ly  signify.  from  the  airport  in  London  to  our 
I  wish  to  commend,  in -your  pres-  hotel,  about  twenty  or  twenty-five 
Page  788

THREE  REALMS  IN  WHICH  WOMAN'S  INFLUENCE  SHOULD  EVER  BE  PARAMOUNT      789 
miles  distance.  I  noticed  the  differ-  social  economy,  study  and  progress, 
ence  in  transportation.  Sixty  years  and  all  kinds  of  learning,  or  par- 
before  this  recent  visit,  I  crossed  on  ticipation  in  any  and  all  things 
a  steamboat  to  Great  Britain.  It  which  contribute  to  the  fulness  of 
took,  as  I  remember,  about  seven-  her  womanhood  and  increase  her 
and-a-half  days.  That  morning  we  upbuilding  influence  in  the  world; 
had  been  only  fourteen  hours  from  but  I  do  know  that  there  are  three 
New  York,  and  we  were  delayed  by  areas  or  realms  in  which  women's 
head  winds  and  the  pilot  thought  influence  should  always  be  felt.  No 
it  best  to  land  at  Shannon,  Ireland,  matter  what  changes  take  place, 
to  refuel.  As  I  say,  it  took  fourteen  these  three  realms  should  be  domi- 
hours.  Think  of  the  progress  dur-  nated  always  by  the  beauty,  the  vir- 
ing  those  sixty  years!  Then  another  tue,  and  intelligence  of  womankind, 
thing,  as  we  were  being  driven  to  I  should  like  to  refer  to  those 
the  hotel,  I  was  surprised  at  the  three.  The  first  has  been  covered 
number  of  autos,  or  rather,  at  the  impressively  by  Sister  Spafford,  and 
absence  of  the  fine  Clydesdale  that  is  the  realm  of  home  building, 
horses  that  I  saw  sixty  years  before.  Next  to  that  is  the  realm  of  teach- 
drawing  heavily  loaded  lorries.  Not  ing,  and  the  third,  which  has  al- 
one did  we  see  during  that  entire  ready  been  emphasized,  the  realm 
trip  that  morning.  All  had  given  of  compassionate  service.  ''Some- 
way to  the  advance  in  building  and  day,"  writes  one  of  our  leading 
driving  of  automobiles,  trucks,  etc.  columnists,  ''when  women  realize 
Another  thing,  I  was  surprised  to  that  the  object  of  their  emancipa- 
see  a  lady  policeman  —  women  po-  tion  is  not  to  make  them  more  like 
licemen.  Sixty  years  before  that,  men,  but  more  powerfully  womanly, 
even  thirty  years  so  far  as  I  was  con-  and  therefore  of  greater  use  to  men 
cerned,  we  hadn't  thought  that  was  and  themselves,  and  society,  this 
a  field  for  women  to  enter.  And  I  implicit  demand  and  need  of  women 
learned,  while  I  was  in  London,  of  for  a  world  based,  not  on  mechani- 
the  efficiency  of  women  as  women  cal  but  on  human  principles,  may 
policemen.  break  through  as  the  most  important 
influence   upon   history,  and  bring 
TN  1930,  there  were  over  eight  mil-  with  it  a  renaissance  of  liberalism 
lion  women  workers  gainfully  em-  and  humanism." 
ployed.    Today,  as  we  have  learned,  Nor  is  it  necessary  to  convince  us 
there     are     twenty-eight     million,  of  the  potency  of  home  influence  in 
There  has  been  a  vast  increase  in  shaping  character.     There  are  cer- 
women    workers    during    the    last  tain  trusts  to  which  it  is  only  neces- 
twenty-five  years  in  various  occupa-  sary  to  call  attention  and  minds  in- 
tions  in  which,  formerly,  only  men  stinctively  assent  to  them.    Some  of 
participated.  And  this  great  increase  these  trusts  are  that  the  home  senti- 
is  particularly  among  married  wom-  ment  is  second  only  to  religion  in 
en.  influencing  the  human  mind,  and 
Now  I  don't  know  that  there  is  all  else  may  be  forgotten,  but  the 
any  objection   to  women   entering  experiences    of    childhood    will    re- 
the  fields  of  hterature,  science,  art,  main   undimmed   on   the  walls  of

790 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1958 
memory.  ''Napoleon  understood 
well  the  nature  of  home  and  its  in- 
fluence, when  he  said,  'The  great 
need  of  P'rance  is  mothers/ 
''In  demoeratie  countries  like  the 
United  States  and  Canada,  where 
the  fate  of  the  nation  is  in  the  hands 
of  the  people,  the  future  of  the  na- 
tion is  in  the  hands  of  the  children. 
They  must  be  fitted  for  their  high 
responsibilities  by  the  influences  of 
home.  These  countries  should  fear 
the  disloyalty  and  contention  of  the 
fireside  more  than  nefarious  plots  of 
scheming  politicians.  If  boys  wran- 
gle and  contend  at  home,  if  they 
cannot  discuss  with  dignity  the  little 
questions  that  arise  in  their  daily 
intercourse  with  one  another,  be 
sure  they  will  not  honor  the  Nation 
when  they  take  their  places  in  Sen- 
ate, Parliament,  or  Congress  to  dis- 
cuss the  great  problems  that  con- 
front the  civilization  of  the  twen- 
tieth century. 
^^VrOW,  if  home  may  be  so  power- 
ful an  influence  for  good,  how 
important  becomes  the  cultivation 
of  the  home  sentiment.  To  be 
destitute  of  this  sentiment  is  almost 
as  great  a  misfortune  as  to  be  desti- 
tute of  the  religious  sentiment.  In- 
deed, we  believe  that  one  cannot 
possess  a  true  exalted  love  of  home 
while  there  is  wanting  in  his  charac- 
ter that  which  unawakened  may 
yield  the  fruit  of  a  godly  life."  (And 
I  cannot  think  of  a  member  of  this 
Church,  particularly  one  who  holds 
a  prominent  position,  being  cruel 
to  his  wife,  especially  before  chil- 
dren. I  think  he  is  not  a  good  mem- 
ber of  the  Church;  he  is  not  a  good 
Christian.  And  for  a  man  to  strike 
a  woman,  as  I  have  heard  recently, 
is  just  beastly.)     "What  a  mighty 
responsibility  rests  upon  him  who 
essays  to  make  a  home,  for  the 
founding  of  a  home  is  as  sacred  a 
work  as  the  founding  of  a  Church. 
Indeed,  every  home  should  be  a 
temple  dedicated  to  divine  worship, 
where  human  beings  through  life 
should  worship  God  through  the 
service  of  mutual  love,— the  highest 
tribute  man  can  pay  to  God"  (Our 
Home,  page  38). 
One  of  the  greatest  needs  in  the 
world  today  is  intelligent,  conscien- 
tious motherhood.  It  is  to  the 
home  that  we  must  look  ioi  the 
mculcation  oi  the  fundamental  vir- 
tues which  contribute  to  human 
weliaie  and  happiness. 
Womanhood  should  be  intelli- 
gent and  pure,  because  it  is  the  liv- 
ing, life-fountain  from  which  flows 
the  stream  of  humanity.  She  who 
would  pollute  that  stream  by  smok- 
ing tobacco,  using  poisonous  drugs 
or  by  germs  that  would  shackle  the 
unborn,  is  untrue  to  her  sex,  and 
an  enemy  to  the  strength  and  per- 
petuity of  the  race. 
The  laws  of  life  and  the  revealed 
word  of  God  combine  in  placing 
upon  motherhood  and  fatherhood 
the  responsibility  of  giving  to  chil- 
dren, not  only  a  pure,  unshackled 
birth,  but  also  a  training  in  faith 
and  righteousness.  They  ought  to 
be  taught  "to  understand  the  doc- 
trine of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ 
the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of 
baptism  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands, 
when  eight  years  old."  To  those 
who  neglect  this  in  precept  and  ex- 
ample, the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
says,  "the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of 
the  parents"  (D  &  C  68:85). 
There  seems  to  be  sweeping  over 
the  nations  of  the  earth  at  the  pres-