[Vol45 | November 1958 | Sequence: 09 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
EDITORIAL cm©2 VOL. 


 NO. 11 Accepting a Gal to Soma ae Jones, we are in need of in our Relief Society, and we would like very much to have you accept this position. The bishop (stake president ) has given us permission to ask you.' Only one who has experienced such a request knows what the feelings of that sister may be. She may think, "Oh, I could never do that," or "That will mean an awful lot of work," or "That is the very office I have tried to avoid all these years," or "Someone else could do it much better." Any one of these feelings may struggle for expression; but the one who is called to a position need voice only one reply, "I will do the best I can and will be happy to try to fill the position satisfactorily." Basic to this attitude of a Relief Society member is the exercise of faith. First there is the knowledge that the call for her to serve in this particular position came from the Lord through the proper channels. One is not called to serve the individual who requests the service in behalf of Relief Society, one is called to serve the Lord in assisting to accomplish the work given to the Relief Society to do. In view of this consideration alone, any Latterday Saint woman would consider a request seriously and prayerfully before declining to serve. The impulse to decline a calling because of inability, in one's own estimation, to fill the calling as well as another sister, calls for the furPage 736 ther exercise of faith. When one humbly accepts a position, she relies on the inspired words of Nephi, "I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them" (I Nephi 3:7). So far one has accepted the call to serve based on faith that the call has come from the Lord and that he will inspire, enlighten, and support one in the fulfillment of the call. But, as the weeks pass, one realizes the growth that is taking place in oneself — the increase in knowledge and overcoming of personal weaknesses. 'Then there is borne in upon the soul the truth that the Lord is Father of us all. He knows what each one of his spiritual children needs for development and perfection. As one is humble and teachable, accepting of opportunities to serve, doing the will of those placed over one in authority, one becomes a partaker of the further words of Nephi, "he that is righteous is favored of God" (I Nephi 17:35). Instead of considering the work one is doing as alone helping the Lord, one awakens to the conviction that through fulfilling the service, one is being favored with the opportunity to grow, develop, and improve oneself. Instead of a EDITORIAL spiritual shrinking through inactivity, the spirit enlarges. Through association with the sisters in the ward and stake, understanding and tenderness for them increase, realizing the truth of the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith to Relief Society. "You must enlarge your souls towards each other, if you would do like Jesus, and carry your fellowcreatures to Abraham's bosom" (D. H. C. LV:606). 737 in service and faithfulness, so much the more does the Lord shower blessings on the righteous, hearing and answering prayers, and leading one along the path of eternal life. The words of Benjamin are burned 'nto one's heart: "He [the Lord] doth require that ye should do as he hath commanded you; for which if ye do, he doth immediately bless you; and therefore he hath paid you. And ye are still indebted unto him, No matter how zealous one may and are, and will be, forever and be in serving the Lord, one remains ever (Mosiah 2:24). Sn debt to him. As one increases —M. C. S. A ad Thanksgiving Mabel Law Atkinson There is assurance In a head bowed low And worn hands folded In a pattern old hands know Before a table Spread with simple fare— There is assurance In a grateful prayer. She Auditing (Triple Cinquain) Maryhale Woolsey Sometimes The child I was Calls past the years to ask The fate of dreams a child heart dreamed For me. Would eyes Child-wide and clear Show disbelief and hurt And see in change, betrayal of A trust? Or would A child's pure faith See through, and recognize The altered shapes of dreams that came To pass? Se ootsteps Annie M. Ellsworth Cod made the mountains and the trees, The rippling waters, cooling breeze; The scented flowers, every kind, Fach blade of grass and climbing vine. He frames the clouds and sends the Tain The ripened fruit and golden grain. Designs the deserts, rolling seas; The far-flung forests, sun-kissed leaves. He makes the sunsets in the west, The blue horizons, mountain crest; The fertile valleys, purple hills, The rosy summers, dancing mills. In every clime, and every land, One sees the touch of the Master's hand.