[Vol45 | November 1958 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature — Two Puritan Poets: Wigglesworth and Taylor Briant S. Jacobs]

It was printed in_ broadsides and hawked at country fairs, much like the 19th century penny dreadfuls (a piece of cheap popular literature) which it so much resembled. At least eight editions were called for, three of them since 1900, the last in 1929. Children were asked to memorize it along with their Bible and Catechism. During the late 19th century, many older people were still alive who could recite the entire 224 stanzas by heart. His similar work, most aptly titled, God's Controversy With New England, was written in a time of severe drought to prove that God punishes his chosen people when they sin. The Day of Doom begins with a description of sinners' complacency as they wallow in sin, yet grow bold in their indifference to God's threatenings. Sleeping securely, they are caught unawares by God's vengeance: For at midnight brake forth a Light, which turn'd the might to day, And speedily an hideous cry did all the world dismay. Sinners awake, their heart to ake, trembling their loynes surprizeth; Amaz'd with fear, by what they hear, each one of them ariseth. With "giddy heads" they rush forth to find the might as day, the heavens rent asunder. His scene set, Wigglesworth feels it is not too soon to rebuke: LESSON DEPARTMENT Ye sons of men that durst contemn the threat'nings of God's word, How cheer you noe? Your hearts I trow, are thrilled as with a sword. Now atheist blind, whose brutish a God could never see Dost thou perceive, dost thou believe that Christ thy judge shall be? Mind No heart so bold but now grows cold and almost dead with fear, No eve so dry but now can cry and pour out many a tear Mean men lament, great men do rent their robes and tear their hair; They do not spare their flesh to tear through horrible despair. All kindreds wail; their hearts do fail; horror the world doth fill With weeping eyes and loud outcries, yet knows not how to kill. As the mountains smoke, a trump is sounded and the Judge draws nigh. Placing his pure lambs on one side of his throne, he then condemns the various sinners to whatever depth of hell they deserve. After reproving them for their "licentious mirth" and "Carnal Pleasure" while ignoring him, he prepares the condemand for their eternal punishment: With iron bands they bind their hands, and cursed feet together And cast them all, both great and small, into that lake forever. Where day and night, without respite, they wail, and cry, and howl For tort'ring pain, which they sustain in Body and in Soul. When babes who died in infancy approach the bar for their sentence, Christ, the Judge, acknowledges their sinfulness to be much less than that of mature men, yet he temporizes: A crime it is; therefore, in bliss You may not hope to dwell; But unto you I shall allow 771 The easiest room in hell. The glorious King thus answering, they cease, and plead no longer; Their consciences must needs confess his reasons are the stronger. In contrast, God's perfect saints find wondrous happiness as "Its light Divine" is reflected from every face, for soon his worthy children are to be embraced within his arms of love. Edward Taylor (1645-1729) Though he lived to be eightyfour, Edward 'Taylor was driven from within to write poetry constantly throughout most of his maturity, yet he published none of it. Indeed, so sensuous is his poetry, so intimately does he create within its lines a closeness to God, even a mystical union with him, that his faithful parishoncrs who had _ for decades listened to his usual, dry sermons on some theological disputation would have been astounded had they read his poctry. Furthermore, so evident was his delight in the process of imaginative creativity itself, that some of his contempporaries, with lesser gifts of insight and communication, surely would have accused him of enjoying poetry for its own sake rather than as a means of worship. Had they so accused, nothing would have been further from the truth. In the words of 'Thomas Johnson, his discoverer, "his sole inspiration was a glowing passionate love for Christ." While his poetry has become a classic of Puritan literature, and while far and away he wrote the greatest poetry in America before 1800, his largest bequest to us might well lie above the poems themselves, deep and exciting as they are. Sus- 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 tained and surrounded by a culture which esteemed reason, the intellect, logic, and a literal reading, just as they abhorred emotion, enthusiasm, imagination, and the delights of artistic creativity and beauty for their own sakes, his secret effort stands as living proof that the whole man will not be denied. 'That such unnatural, authoritarian decrees violate the integrity of man is proved once again by Edward 'Taylor. As intellectual, artistic, spiritual patterns change, often the many will bow down and capitulate, often for decades or centuries. But sooner or later there is always one to speak. Taylor is that one, toward whom we must exert gratitude, "the memory of the heart." Scarcely more than twenty years ago Edward 'Taylor did not exist; no anthology of American literature before World War II included him. At his death, his poems having served their purpose fully, he left instructions with a grandson, Ezra Stiles, President of Yale during the Revolution, that they be destroyed. Instead, they were deposited unopened in the Yale Library, first to be discovered by 'Thomas Johnson in 1937. This momentous event forced a complete revision of opinion about Puritan poetry. Edward 'Taylor is a Puritan poet for four reasons, among _ others. 1. His sources and influences are within the Puritan tradition. Most of his images and conceits are expanded images drawn from ordinary folk-life: cooking, spinning, building, nature. His "Meditations," which make up the bulk of his poetry, were composed five times yearly as his own private communings on texts from the Bible which he was to discuss in a sermon the day following. He was a poet of The Book. 2. Intellectual intensity. Central in Puritanism was the Renaissance spirit which loved learning, logic, intellectual excellence. So intent was E. Dward 'Vaylor on making his poems as concentrated as possible, that he omits prepositions and. Articles, which omissions accentuate the intentional roughness he seemed to feel best maintained the homely folk quality of his lines. Even in his most grave poems he used wit play and puns. Predominantly he is a metaphysical poet, or one who by force expands an image or conceit to its farthest (sometimes incongruous) extremes, that this new association between simple image and intense, lofty idea or spirituality might excite the reader through surprise. 3. Supports Calvin's view of man. In certain of his poems made public for the first time in 1957 (and therefore not in our text), Taylor reveals what hitherto was not generally known; namely, how fully he saw exemplified in himself the Calvinistic concept of man. For example, consider the vivid figure or conceit he uses in these two stanzas from "Meditation 31," Series 1, to express his own self-revulsion: Oh! Sad-Sad thing! Satan is now turned Cook: Sin is the sauce he gets for ev'ry Dish. I cannot bite a bit of Bread or Roote But what is sopt therein, and Venomish. Right's lost in what's my Right. Hence I do take Only what's poison'd by the infernal Snake. But this is not the Worst: there's worse than this. My 'Tast is lost; no bit tastes sweet to mee But what is Dipt all over in this Dish LESSON DEPARTMENT Of Ranck ranck Poyson: this my Sauce must bee Hell Heaven is, Heaven Hell: yea, Bitter Sweet: Poison's my doth keep. Food: Food poison in't 4. Mystic Union with God. Puritanism's great power was its other worldliness: its sense of the immediacy of God now and, most of all, in the glorious bliss of the life to come. His feeling of identity with God here and now is the great common denominator of the Puritan movement from Bradford through Jonathan Edwards, as seen in these stanzas from "Meditation 23, Series I: I know not how to speak't, it is so good: Shall Mortall and Imortall marry? Nay, Man marry God? God be a Match for Mud? The King of Glory Wed a Worm? Mere Clay? This is the Case, the Wonder too is Bliss Thy Maker is thy Husband. Hear'st thou this? My Maker be my Husband? Oh, strange joy! I am to Christ more base than to a King, A Mite, Fly, Worm, Ant, Serpent, Divell is Or can be, being tumbled all in Sin; And Shall I be his Spouse? How good is this? It is too good to be declar'd to thee: But not too good to be believed by mee. In the preceding excerpts we see how widely Taylor fluctuates from day to day, from mood to mood. Because the purpose of his poems was to translate his present feeling toward himself and his God into a poem to be seen by his eyes alone, he could be only entirely honest and unpresumptuous. 'Though he is up and then down, his dominant tone is one of ecstatic joy and inner peace at being near his God: 773 In Heaven soaring up, I dropt an Eare On Earth: and oh! Sweet Melody: And listening found it was the Saints who were Encoacht for heaven that sang for Joy. For in Christs Coach they sweetly sing, As they to Glory ride therein. Oh! Joyous hearts! Enfir'de with holy Flame!