[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | August | Issue: 3 | Title: SUSAN B. ANTHONY'S LETTER. | Author: Unknown]

SUSAN B. ANTHONY'S LETTER.

Rochester, New York
July 21, 1894.
To the officers and members of the Woman
	Suffrage Association of Utah:
	My Dear Friends—I am delighted that
you are now to be in the Union of States,
as you have been for many years in the
union of the dear old National Woman Suf-
frage Association! On behalf of the forty-
three states and the District of Columbia
that compose our union, I congratulate you
not only because Utah is to be a state, but
because I hope and trust that her men, in
Constitutional Convention assembled, will,
like the noble men of Wyoming, ordain
political equality to her women. And I am
sure that you, my dear sisters, who have
not only tasted the sweets of liberty, but
also the bitterness, the humiliation of the
loss of the blessed symbol, will not allow
the organic law of your state to be framed
on the barbarism that makes women the
political slaves of men.
	Now in the formative period of your con-
stitution is the time to establish justice and
equality to all the people. That adjective
"male" once admitted into your organic
law, will remain there. Don't be cajoled
into believing otherwise! Look how the
women of New York have toiled and toiled
over forty years to get "male" out of our
constitution. Fifty thousand petitions and
appeals poured into the constitutional con-
vention of 1867, and we were sent away
empty-handed; and now over half a million
of the men and women of the state have
prayed this constitutional convention and
its suffrage committee reports 13 to 4 against
granting our prayer. And we can hardly
expect the 170 members to do much better
than the seventeen appointed by their
president to consider and report upon the
question.
	No, no! Don't be deluded by any
specious reasoning, but demand justice now.
Once ignored in your constitution—you’ll
be as powerless to secure recognition as are
we in the older states. And more, the men
of your convention should not allow the

[Column 2]
question to be separately voted upon, either.
But the suffrage clause should read, "Every
citizen of the age of 21," etc. I do feel
very, very anxious lest the enemies of equal
rights to women will be too powerful, but
I shall hope that truth and justice will pre-
vail and that Utah will present her state
constitution with political equality to wo-
men established beyond the power of re-
peal.
	I shall hardly be glad to have another
state come into the union with women dis-
franchised. I do not forget that Colorado
men did vote "male" out of their state
constitution, but that is the first and only
state, and I fear may continue to be, for in
no other state is there likely to be such a
favorable combination of incidents to help
secure the good result. Even Kansas may
be lost from lack of favorable conditions.
The Republican state constitution going
back on its party record and ignoring this
amendment—that is saying that silence on
the question was to be the plan of the
party's fall campaign—estops the great
educational work in one half of the political
meetings of the state, in which lay my
chief hope of carrying the amendment, or
rather one half of my hope; for now it will
be discussed only in the other half of the
political meetings—the Populist, instead of
in all the meetings of both of the great
parties of the state, as we had so earnestly
hoped, yes expected.
	But whatever comes to New York and
Kansas in our mighty struggle this fall, I
trust the women of Utah will never be
compelled to go through such a powerful
ordeal.
	With best love to each and all of you—
and best hope for your statehood—I am
very sincerely yours,
SUSAN B. ANTHONY.


