[Vol40 | June 1953 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Adam S. Bennion]
Although he has risen to heights, great heights, indeed, in the educational, business, civic, and social world, and to the most exalted position to which the Church can call him, he has never lost the sense of value and appreciation for the humbler things of life. In this respect he has retained the virtues of his humble beginning, of which he is justly very proud. In his acceptance of the high call which has come to him, he said: Often during the last twenty-five years I have had opportunity to bring eastern people to Temple Square. I always take them to the log cabin in the southeast corner of the Square. I show them the little log cabin and ask them to behold it, and then turn from the cabin to the temple. I want them to understand the Page
370 ELDER ADAM S. BENNION poverty of the pioneers who lived in log cabins, but still dreamed dreams of a temple. Elder Bennion lived early enough in the history of the state to know from his own experience some of the problems of the pioneers. He was born in Taylorsville in Salt Lake County, during the lifetime of many of the original settlers. He learned keenly to appreciate the hardships the pioneers suffered. He loved to hear the stories of their forced exodus from Nauvoo, their journey ADAM S. BENNION across the plains, and their settlement in the valleys of the mountains.
Among these pioneers were his forebears. His father died when he was but a year and a half old. Two of the other children died in their infancy while the family were living in Rush Valley, where medical attention was not available.
Adam was one of five children raised to maturity by their widowed mother, through her own efforts.
From the standpoint of the Relief Society, it is interesting to note that although Ad's mother had this great responsibility of rearing her family alone, nevertheless she found time to serve for thirty years as a Relief Society worker and teacher in her ward. The service rendered others during this long period can never be fully appraised. She always had time to help a neighbor. She lived to enjoy her family and her friends until after she was seventyeight years of age. _ Ad recognized and appreciated the help of his mother during the twenty-five years he lived under her roof. No doubt in Ad's life of accomplishment is seen the reflection of his mother's teachings, culture; and ideals exemplified in her life, her devotion to duty, her love of family, her faith in God.
From his family, community, and Church, Elder Bennion received the most wonderful heritage of all: faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. ITH these priceless endowments Adam began life. We look now for a moment at his accomplishments, comparable in a way with the comparison he himself drew between the log cabin as the beginning, and the temple as the 371 ultimate achievement.
Adam earned a degree of Doctor of Philosophy conferred upon him by the University of California, culminating years of study and teaching. He received high recognition in his appointment to the Executive Committee of the Brigham Young University, the Church Board of Education, and as a member of the Board of Regents of the University of Utah.
Were he asked what his choicest service had been, he would instantly say, thirty-eight years of intensive effort as a member of the general board of the Deseret Sunday School Union.
This is work which has brought him close to the hearts of thousands of young people whom he has wisely counseled and helped. His intimate association with young men and women continued throughout the years during which he served the Church as Commissioner of Education, in charge of all the Church seminaries and _ institutes and colleges.
From the field of education he was called into another great field of public service, a business service upon which the welfare of the city and state depends. His efforts in business have now added to his previous host of friends, the patrons served, the -stockholders, the management, and fellow employees with whom he has been associated. Indeed, he has assisted since 1934 in building a great public service corporation.
Herein he has gained the respect, admiration, confidence, and affection of all with whom he has worked. 'They have consistently bestowed high honors upon him. He has risen to the office of vice-president of the Utah Power and Light 

 —JUNE 1953 ELDER ADAM S. BENNION AND SOME OF HIS FAMILY Elder Bennion is seated at the left, and with him, left to right, are some of his children and grandchildren: Edmund Y.
Bennion and his wife Betty Jean Lusty Bennion; Marian Bennion Rogers; Richard Y.
Bennion and his wife, Lucy Jensen Bennion, holding their son, William Farr Bennion; Elder Bennion's wife, Minerva Young Bennion; Mrs. Richard W. Young, mother of Mrs. Bennion. The grandchildren in front, at the right, are: Ann Bennion, Adam Scott Bennion, and Richard Bennion. 'Two other children, Phyllis Bennion Stohl, of Arlington, Virginia, and Adam Y. Bennion, Los Angeles, California, and others of the eighteen grandchildren were not present when this photograph: was taken. Company. 'The recognition accorded him is national in its scope, and his influence has been extended likeWISe.
Among his other accomplishments, he is a musician. He loves music. For fifteen years he has taken time out from his business and his other activities, to preside over the Salt Lake Oratorio Society. 'Tens of thousands have appreciated the society's rendition of the Messiah on New Year's Day during all of this period of his leadership. He has unselfishly played his part - politically. He is a great patriot with the highest ideals. In his latest public utterance he proclaimed: "I love this country, its inspired institutions and its great Constitution."
This declaration has been made to thousands by Adam S.
Bennion in practically every state in the Union. His profound faith has accompanied him in his loveliest accomplishment of all—his family.
Blessed with the wife of his choice, a beautiful daughter of a most dis- ADAM S. BENNION tinguished family, Minerva Young; three manly sons and two lovely daughters. The sons are pursuing in their father's footsteps, succeeding in their chosen callings, the daughters establishing homes for themselves and their worthy husbands, following the pattern set by their mother.
Into this home came the inspiration and blessings of the homes from which Adam and Minerva came.
What could be more fitting than the lovely compliment he paid his family—"Three lovely women who have enriched-my life, my mother, my wife, and my wife's mother." 'These quotations from Elder Bennion's acceptance of his high call indicate eloquently his innermost thoughts and feelings and emotions, and point unerring! Y to the interests which have been paramount throughout his life.
With all these and many unmentioned achievements in life, he brings to his present calling a most 373 unusual background of rich experience, a life of devoted service. He is a true son of a noble mother. To Adam the Church comes first. The testimony he bore when accepting his call to the Apostleship bears eloquent testimony of the depths of his rich spiritual life: If these brethren think I can respond to this call, I will give it my heart and my energy. My life is anchored.
With the testimony I have that God lives and that Jesus Christ is his Son. I know that this Church was instituted by revelation, and that Joseph Smith and all his successors were men of God, inspired to build this great institution. President McKay, I give you my life, my service. I will go where you want me to go, I will give my best in an attempt to do what you and he would want me to do. I dedicate.
Myself to this service. The numerous friends of Adam S.
Bennion now come forward as one to acclaim their approval of the high calling which is now his— a special witness to the world of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
Beyond the Strength of Rock Eva Willes Wangsgaard The mystery of summer found a seed Not only under earth, but stone-encased Where men had laid a walk and feet had paced Upon their busy way. No one gave heed To what might lie beneath. An inner need Demanded light and all else was effaced By that desire for growth. A course was traced, A dungeon door gave way, and life was freed. A blade of grass has forced an ancient lock.
Although more frail than any flesh or bone It used a strength beyond the strength of rock.
