[Vol40 | June 1953 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Winniefred Spafford]

Winniefred Spafford Manwaring Lillie C. Adams Member, General Board of Relief Society....
Joying and beholding your order, and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ (Col. 2:5). N March 25, 1953, Sister Winniefred S.
Manwaring was appointed to the general board of Relief Society. "Having been born of goodly parents," she possesses a rich heritage, for her parents were valiant champions of righteousness. She is the daughter of Don C. And Elizabeth Hickey Spafford. On April 25, 1928, she was married in the Salt Lake Temple to Paul W. Manwaring.
They have a married son and daughter, Don and Darl; and Louise who is in junior high school; also one grandson.
Realizing that our obligations are WINNIEFRED S.
MANWARING 378 our opportunities, has given Sister Manwaring the desire and determination to fulfill every Church assignment with credit.
Characterized by her unusual executive ability, she has made many contributions to the Relief Society. She knows that faith without works is dead; faith is that dynamic spark that defies defeat. She has carefully, thoughtfully, prayerfully pursued the many tasks assigned her. She has worked as secretary of the Big Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, president of the Twenty-first Ward Relief Society, and at the time of her call to the general board, she was president of the Emigration Stake Relief Society, having held this position for five and one-half years. Simultaneously, she served as group leader of the Relief Society stake presidents of the Salt Lake Welfare Region, and meticulously and methodically, she made plans and programs for the president's department. She has served long and diligently in all  auxiliary organizations in teaching and executive positions. Her appointment to the general board is the culmination of her faithful performance of Church service. Though Sister Manwaring's activities have been many, in business as well as in the Church, she has maintained a high degree of efficiency in her home, believing these words: "He is happiest, be he king or peasant, who finds peace in his home" (Goethe). The verse in Proverbs (31:27) aptly expresses the solidarity of her home, with the words: "She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness." Her home is one of refinement, culture, comfort, and hospitality, combined with spirituality.