[Vol40 | June 1953 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Editorial | Title: North Main Salt Lake]
test, 40  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City  1, 
Utah. 
It  is  suggested  that  all  entrants  in 
the  poetry  contest  check  their  work  care- 
fully for  details  of  craftsmanship,  and  that 
they  evaluate  their  poems  in  accordance 
with  high  poetic  standards.  The  following 
books  give  helpful  suggestions: 
Buell,  Robert  K.,  Verse  Writing  Sim- 
plified, $1.50. 
Coblentz,  Stanton  A.,  An  Editor  Looks 
at  Poetry,  $2.00. 
Hamilton,  Anne,  Seven  Principles  of 
Poetry,  $2.50. 
Hillyer,  Robert,  First  Principles  of 
Verse,  $2.00. 
These  books  may  be  ordered  from  Writ- 
er's Digest,  22  East  12th  Street,  Cincin- 
nati 10,  Ohio. 
irieuef  Society  Short  Story   (contest 
npHE  Relief  Society  Short  Story  of  the  Rehef  Society  general  board 
Contest   for    1953    opens   with  and  may  not  be  published  by  others 
this  announcement  and  closes  Sep-  except    upon    written    permission 
tember  15,  1953.  from  the  general  board.  The  general 
^,                  ....          .  ,-  board  reserves  the  right  to  publish 
The  prizes  will  be  as  follows:  ^^^  ^f  ^^e  other  stories  entered  in 
First  prize.   $50  the  contest,  paying  for  them  at  the 
Second  prize    
 $40  time  of  publication  at  the  regular 
Third  prize   $30  Magazine  rates. 
The   three   prize-winning   stories  d   i      £      i.u          1.    ^ 
•n  -u         i^T  f  J               ^-    1     •  Rules  for  the  contest: 
will  be  published  consecutively  m 
the  first  three  issues  of  The  Relief  ^-  This  contest  is  open  to  Latter-day 
C-r.^;^*.,,  A/f«^^r,:„^  £^^     ^^  .       D  •  ^  Saint   women — exclusive   of   members   of 
Society  Magazine  for  1954.     Prize-  ^^e  Relief  Society  general  board  and  em- 
winning  stories  become  the  property  ployees  of  the  general  board— who  have

382 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE  1953 
had  at  least  one  literary  composition  pub- 
lished or  accepted  for  publication. 
2.  Only  one  story  may  be  submitted  by 
each  contestant. 
3.  The  story  must  not  exceed  3,000 
words  in  length  and  must  be  typewritten. 
(A  duplicate  copy  of  the  story  should  be 
retained  by  contestants  to  insure  against 
loss.) 
4.  The  contestant's  name  is  not  to  ap- 
pear anywhere  on  the  manuscript,  but  a 
stamped  envelope  on  which  is  written 
the  contestant's  name  and  address  is  to  be 
enclosed  with  the  story.  Nom  de  plumes 
are  not  to  be  used. 
5.  A  signed  statement  is  to  accompany 
the  story  submitted  certifying: 
a.  That  the  author  is  a  member  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 
b.  That  the  author  has  had  at  least  one 
Hterary  composition  published  or  ac- 
cepted for  publication.  (This  state- 
ment must  give  name  and  date  of 
publication  in  which  the  contest- 
ant's work  has  appeared,  or,  if  not 
yet  published,  evidence  of  accept- 
ance for  publication.) 
c.  That  the  story  submitted  (state  the 
title  and  number  of  words)  is  the 
contestant's  original  work. 
d.  That  it  has  never  been  publshed, 
that  it  is  not  in  the  hands  of  an 
editor  or  other  person  with  a  view 
to  publication,  and  that  it  will  not 
be  published  nor  submitted  else- 
where for  publication  until  the  con- 
test is  decided. 
6.  No  explanatory  material  or  picture  is 
to  accompany  the  story. 
7.  A  writer  who  has  received  the  first 
prize  for  two  consecutive  years  must  wait 
for  two  years  before  she  is  again  eligible 
to  enter  the  contest. 
8.  The  judges  shall  consist  of  one  mem- 
ber of  the  general  board,  one  person  from 
the  English  department  of  an  educational 
institution,  and  one  person  who  is  a  rec- 
ognized writer.  In  case  of  complete  dis- 
agreement among  the  judges,  all  stories  se- 
lected for  a  place  by  the  various  judges 
will  be  submitted  to  a  specially  selected 
committee  for  final  decision. 
In  evaluating  the  stories,  consideration 
will  be  given  to  the  following  points: 
a.  Characters  and  their  presenta- 
tion 
b.  Plot  development 
c.  Message  of  the  story 
d.  Writing  style 
9.  Entries  must  be  postmarked  not 
later  than  September  15,  1953. 
10.  All  entries  are  to  be  addressed  to 
Relief  Society  Short  Story  Contest,  40 
North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah. 
The  following  books  on  short  story 
technique  are  suggested  as  helpful  ref- 
erences: 
Hamilton,  Anne,  How  to  Revise  Your 
Own  Stones,  $1.50. 
Foster-Harris,  Basic  Formulas  of  Fiction, 
$2.50. 
Merrielees,  Edith  M.,  Story  Writingy 
$3.00. 
Uzzell,  Thomas,  Narrative  Technique, 
$3-75. 
These  books  may  be  ordered  from 
W liters  Digest,  22  East  12  th  Street,  Cin- 
cinnati 10,  Ohio. 
c/ne  ofok en 
Grace  Sayre 
The  sun's  rays  pushed  green  leaves  apart 
To  watch  the  fish  cavort  and  dart 
Along  the  stream's  clear  silver  bed; 
Near  a  bright  bluebonnet's  head, 
Gauzy  wings  of  a  dragonfly 
Poise  and  whir  as  the  stream  runs  by. 
Quiet  spreads  her  silken  gown 
Where  pathways  cross  the  hills  to  town; 
But  deep  in  my  heart  lies  a  sun-bright  token 
As  though  the  woodland  stream  had  spoken.

Why  Study  Literature 
Blanche  Kendall  McKey 
THE  young  man's  eyes  blazed 
with  resentment,  although  I 
was  not  the  offending  teach- 
er. We  both  were  graduate  stu- 
dents at  the  University,  working  for 
a  Master's  degree.  In  one  hand  he 
held  The  Canterbury  Tales,  and  in 
the  other,  a  dictionary  of  Old  Eng- 
lish. 
''Why  do  we  have  to  go  through 
all  this  rigmarole?"  he  demanded, 
"Chaucer  was  a  great  man.  He  wrote 
about  real  people,  instead  of  giants 
and  dragons.  All  right— grant  him 
his  glory.  But  he's  dead.  Why 
drag  us  through  all  this  archaic 
language?" 
My  experience  as  a  teacher  of 
adolescents  and  adults  has  shown 
me  that  this  young  man's  attitude 
is  similar  to  that  of  many  people, 
who  see  good  only  in  utilitarian 
studies. 
But  let  me  cite  another  case.  This 
questioner  was  a  tall  man  of  twenty- 
seven,  enrolled  in  a  class  whose 
average  age  was  twenty-one.  Neces- 
sity had  kept  him  working  on  his 
father's  farm,  but  now  that  wheat 
and  corn  were  bringing  higher 
prices,  he  was  free  to  pursue  his  am- 
bition of  becoming  a  teacher.  Desir- 
ing to  marry  and  "get  started,"  he 
was  restless  under  what  seemed  a 
very  slow-moving  process. 
"Why  should  literature  be  re- 
quired in  this  course?"  he  protested. 
"I  shall  never  teach  English." 
"Don't  you  find  literature  inter- 
esting?" I  asked. 
"I  would  if  I  had  time,"  he  re- 
plied. "But  there  are  so  many  books 
and  writers  and  dates.  Why  must 
we  connect  the  product  with  the 
man,  and  the  man  with  the  age  that 
shaped  his  thinking?" 
A  third  case  I  still  cannot  recall 
without  a  tightening  sensation  at 
my  throat.  This  boy  was  a  high- 
school  senior  and  had  been  my  stu- 
dent as  a  junior  also.  In  the  past  I 
had  found  him  interested  and  re- 
sponsive, but  during  this  closing 
term  he  was  making  no  effort.  The