[Vol40 | June 1953 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Editorial | Title: June]

Page 389 OQ-> EDITORIAL 9 
VOL. 40 JUNE 1953
She 123d Annual Church Conference RESIDENT David O. McKay estimated at the 123d Annual Conference of the Church that there were perhaps hundreds of _ thousands of listeners to the conference proceedings. As the prophets, seers, and revelators delivered the word of the Lord, exhorting and pleading with the people to live righteously, deal fairly, and increase individual testimonies that Jesus is the Christ the Son of God, a blessing and a warning went out to the inhabitants of the earth. To the saints, President McKay called attention to two paramount obligations, "regarding the great mission that is yours in preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. In anticipation of this hour, I have been impressed to emphasize two great functions of the Church: First, the putting in order of our homes, and keeping them in order; and second, the proclaiming of the divinity of the mission of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ." President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.
Referred to the significance of the day which commemorated the resurrection. And pleaded, "Brethren and Sisters cling to the Savior.
Accept him as he, himself, described himself: 'I am the light and the life of the world.' Salvation comes only through him, and as Peter said to his accusers: "There is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.' " The hearts of the saints rejoiced Page 390 in the calling of Brother Adam S.
Bennion to fill the vacancy in the Council of the Twelve occasioned by the death of Elder John A. Widtsoe. Elder Bennion is recognized nationally for his outstanding work among the youth of the land. He is an educator and an_ inspirational Latter-day Saint speaker.
Limited space does not permit setting forth the great discourses of the conference, but Relief Society members would do wisely to purchase a copy of the conference proceedings, when they are issued, to add to their valued libraries. 'These discourses should be read and reread. Elder Albert E.
Bowen and President Stephen L Richards were the only General Authorities absent from the sessions.
They were both greatly missed, and the prayers of the saints arose to the Lord in their behalf for their recovery.