[Vol40 | June 1953 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: By Early CandlelightV. A Home]

Annie saved until she could buy a couch made in one of the local woodwork shops, a type known as the "Mormon" couch. It could be converted into a full size bed after removing the cushions and drawing the front board forward, bringing another set of board slats with it. Her couch had been painted to simulate black walnut, by dragging and rocking a grooved tool through the wet stain or varnish, which gave the appearance of the grain in hard- _ BY EARLY CANDLELIGHT | wood. A very good effect was obtained.
Annie had no roll-up window blinds, and curtains were scarce, but finally she had handmade lace curtains in the parlor as well as in the bedroom. A very comfortable chair placed by Hyrum's and Annie's fireplace in the parlor was a "Congress" chair, having a low back and side arms. For sewing, this was a favorite chair.
When a quilt was on the frame in the middle of the room, it was in the way between quiltings, so, as usual, Hyrum devised a plan to get around the problem without upsetting Annie's plans. He put four hooks in the ceiling and tied strong cord to the corners of the quilting frame.
Then they could draw the quilt up to the ceiling hooks and out of the way until the women wanted to work on it again, then all they had to do was untie the cords and lower the frame. Hyrum, like the other men, kept his gun handy, and loaded.
Familiar over the door or the mantle in the 403 parlor were the powder horn and gun. The horn was hollowed out and a leather stopper was made for the end.
When in use, it was hung over the shoulder by a strap, and in it was kept the powder used in loading the gun. The powder was measured in a small cartridge-like cup, poured into the muzzle of the gun, then a small wad of paper was gently but firmly pushed down with a rod which swung around on a swivel under the point of the gun. A measured amount of shot (ammunition about the size of today's buckshot) was then poured in, and another wad of paper tamped in to hold the shot in place.
Hyrum carried his shot in a small canvas bag.
With this slow, tedious method of loading, careful aim was taken before firing a gun. It had to be kept in a convenient place, because it was so much in demand, both for protection, and for securing meat. However, it was hung up high enough to be out of the reach of the children. One night at a home wedding re- ~ a ee SSS. 4 SSS SW WA 73d / PEDESTAL TABLE AND CHAIRS ==  "MORMON" STUDIO COUCH ception, for the first time in the valley, Annie saw a real parlor sofa, with four chairs to match, uphol- _stered in black satin and red velvet.
What a joy it was to see fine things being manufactured in their own territory! Also, in that home, were a walnut pedestal table, with a shallow walnut skirt around the top, and matching chairs, upholstered in velvet.
Another piece of furniture in the parlor, which Annie wanted a long time before they could afford it, was a piano or an organ, with its bench or stool to match..
When they finally bought an organ, the gitls took lessons and were soon able to play the dear, familiar hymns while the family gathered around and sang. All Annie's girls made samplers for the parlor.
They were handembroidered, framed, and carried a warm, friendly, and often sentimental message, such as: "What Is Home Without Baby?" "Welcome All," "Home, Sweet Home," "God Bless Our Happy Home," and others. 'Ihe samplers were hung over the doors, and between the windows. Annie's parlor was the scene of happy times at Christmas.
They passed around candy canes made of molasses or honey taffy, cookies made of slightly sweetened dough, cut in all sorts of animal shapes, and fluffy popcorn balls, for popcorn could be raised in one season. 'Treats were rare, however, and were received with joy by the grateful family and their friends. The very furnishings in the parlor were treated almost with reverence by both parents and children. Annie's home, with the parlor, was two stories high, the bedrooms being upstairs.
After a busy day, Hyrum called the family together and they all bent down on their knees to give thanks for their blessings, then with a candle to light the way, they climbed the high stairs which carried them up and away from their best room.