[Vol40 | June 1953 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teacher]

Leone O. Jacobs HE Visiting Teacher Messages for 1953-54 are a continuation of the series "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth," and are selected from the same portion of The Book of Mormon which will be covered by the theology lessons (Jacob— Alma, chapter 8 of The Book of Mormon). This additional study of The Book of Mormon will encourage all the sisters of the Church to become more familiar with this volume of scripture. As Latter-day Saints, we have in common the most precious possession in the world—the gospel of Jesus Christ. Visiting teachers have the opportunity of discussing the gospel with their sisters in the privacy and intimacy of their own homes. 'This opportunity is a rare and challenging experience. Every visiting teacher throughout the Church should recognize this fact and carefully prepare to carry out this sacred calling to the best of her ability. 'These "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth" are significant passages worthy of personal preservation. 'The general board recommends that every Relief Society visiting teacher commit these passages to memory. They will find that such knowledge is a source of strength and power in building testimonies of the truth. The selected messages and their objectives for the eight months, October through May, are as follows: 422
Lesson 1. "But Before Ye Seek for Riches, Seek Ye for the Kingdom of God" (Jacob 2:18). Objective: To point out that the pursuit of riches should be secondary to seeking the kingdom of God. Lesson 2. "... And See That Ye Have Faith, Hope, and Charity, and Then Ye Will Always Abound in Good Works" (Alma 7:24). Objective: to stimulate the development of faith, hope, and charity that good works may abound. Lesson 3. "Behold, He Sendeth an Invitation Unto All Men, for the Arms of Mercy Are Extended Towards Them, and He Saith: Repent, and I Will Receive You" (Alma 5°33). Objective: To point out the necessity of repenting and overcoming one's faults. Lesson 4. "And Ye Will Not Have a Mind to Injure One Another, But to Live Peaceably, and to Render to Every Man According to 'That Which Is His Due" (Mosiah 4:13). Objective: 'To show the importance of refraining from injuring one another.  
Lesson 5. "Let Not This Pride of Your Hearts Destroy Your Souls!" (Jacob 2:16). Objective: To encourage the cultivation of humility. Lesson 6. "Ye Have Not Applied Your Hearts to Understanding; Therefore, Ye Have Not Been Wise" (Mosiah 12:27). Objective: To urge that a conscious effort be made toward understanding the word of the Lord. Lesson 7. "But There Is a Resurrection, Therefore the Grave Hath No Victory, and the Sting of Death Is Swallowed Up in Christ" (Mosiah 16:8). Objective: To give assurance of life after death. Lesson 8. "Seek Not to Counsel the Lord, But to Take Counsel From His Hand. For Behold, Ye Yourselves Know That He Counseleth in Wisdom, and in Justice, and in Great Mercy, Over All His Works" (Jacob 4:10). Objective: To stress the wisdom of adherence to the counsel of God.