YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK Pictorial California THE Relief Society Magazine VoL. XVIII MARCH, 1931 No. 3 Religious Education in the Family By Milton Bennion RELIGION, in some form or other, has been and still is one of the most powerful factors in development both of the individual and of the race. Religious education should, therefore, be an aspect of all education. This is also true of character education. These two most important aspects of education cannot be segregated. Whichever term we use should be regarded as including the other. Religious education is impossible without striving for development of character in the highest degree; character education is narrow and seriously deficient without the force and inspiration of religion. There is both a religious and a character aspect to all thinking, feeling, and doing. Formal theological instruction may be assigned to a particular day or to specific hours of every day. This cannot be true of religious education; it goes on all the time. The old idea of identifying religion almost wholly with public worship on Sunday and with family prayers at home has long since been superseded by a broader conception of religion. Not that these acts of worship are to be undervalued, but rather that their value is questioned if they are not supported by an active religious life every day and every hour. This intimate association of religion with everyday life is one reason why the family is the primary religious education institution. This has been one of the major functions of the family through all historic times; it must always be so, if the race is to continue to develop toward a higher civilization. HAT is the essence of religious education? It is concerned primarily with the development of personalities, with helping each person to realize the highest ideals of human life, to approach divinity as nearly as may be; as Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount: "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in Heaven is perfect." This is the supreme and ultimate goal of religious endeavor. It includes a keen sense of the intrinsic worth of personality and. Its evaluation above all else. It is also in high degree social because persons are essentially social. A person develops in and through association with other persons. Thus the welfare of community becomes a major factor in religion, and training in-the amenities of social life becomes a major factor in religious education. Religion is usually correlated with faith in Divine Providence or 132 in the ultimate goodness of the universe. It certainly will include faith in human possibilities for good, in the high destiny of man. This thought is commonly expressed in terms of the fatherhood of God, with its implied sonship of man, and the universal brotherhood of man. Akin to this and naturally following from it, is the love of God and the love of fellowmen, as religious ideals. It is not our purpose here to discuss the theological phases of these religious ideals. That belongs of right to each individual family and to the various churches. Our purpose is to consider the practical, every-day aspect of religious education. How can the religious qualities of character be realized in young people? Answer to this question is the major concern of religious education. Recent changes in home life, so much talked of, need, in this respect, make no difference to the responsibility of the family. Even though the home, as now constituted, should vanish, the family would remain, unless indeed, it should be wholly absorbed by the state, as portrayed in some utopian social schemes. This, however, is altogether improbable. Parental instincts are too firmly rooted and too socially useful to be thus ignored. TERE are two major aspects of the life of the family, i. E., the material or economic, and the religious or spiritual. These two aspects of life are here segregated only for the purpose of thought and discussion. The relative emphasis that may be given to the one phase or the other is well illustrated jn the familiar story of Mary and Martha at Bethany. In the Gospel according to St. Luke, immediately following RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the story of the good Samaritan, is the following passage: "Now it came to pass, as they went, that he entered into a certain village; and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house. "And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet, and heard his word. "But Martha was cumbered bout much serving, and came to him, and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me. "And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things: "But one thing is needful; and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her." (Luke 10:38-42) The trouble with Martha and Mary seems to have been that instead of each sharing the major responsibilities of home life and giving spiritual significance to all home activity, they unwittingly divided these responsibilities between them, Mary, taking "that good part"— companionship, and the more distinctly spiritual aspects of service, while Martha was overwhelmed with mere manual service—cleaning pots and kettles, may we assume. THE spirit of love and service should enter into all phases of family life, into the material as well as the spiritual. This will of course, tend to raise all to the level of the ideal, and to make loving service of any kind a joy. To realize this it ls necessary that work be apportioned with regard to the available time and strength of the various members of the family, that no one may be overburdened. One of the major troubles in some otherwise well regulated families is that the mother's energy is wholly consumed with Martha's cares so that there is neither time, nor energy, nor enthusiasm to devote to ee ee RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN THE FAMILY "that good part" which Mary chose. The case is comparable in one way to the hostess who invites guests to dinner and then proceeds to exhaust herself in preparation as though her guests' interests were entirely physical. It is, of course, necessary to eat; but presumably among enlightened human beings this is a means to other ends. May it not, therefore, be more important to meet guests cordially and to enjoy their companionship with untroubled mind rather than to be exhausted or half-distracted by the mere material phases of the entertainment. The principle here applied to entertaining guests has equal application to home folks. Here the value of love, confidence, and willing service, both material and spiritual, should never be overlooked. If anti-religious qualities of character are allowed to flourish in the family they are almost sure to be transmitted to community life and to the new families that are later founded. Such qualities make life "mean, nasty, and miserable," as Thomas Hobbes conceived it to be in its original state. Ee ee Pew He ET us turn away from this unattractive picture and contemplate the possibilities for good that lie within the reach of the family that is governed by religious motives and principles. The great and enduring attitudes of the religious life are very strikingly portrayed by the Apostle Paul in his marvelous discourse on Charity, now translated as "love," the concluding verse of which reads: "And now abideth faith, hope, love, these three; but the greatest of these is love." (I Cor. 13:13.) Let us consider these three attitudes: faith, hope, love— in their relation to religious education in the family. 133 F ATLEE has saved many a youth from falling and has inspired many niore to high positive attainment. Many a delinquent person owes his return to decency to someone's everlastingly persistent faith, frequently that of his mother. The contrary attitude on the part of his parents has often impelled a youth to live in accord with his evil reputation. Call him a liar and he tends to become one; assume that he is a thief and he is very likely to make good the assumption. Even people in the middle and later life have a tendency to live up or down to their reputations. If people think well of us we feel an obligation to make good their expectations. If we have a very bad reputation we may be inclined to think that it isn't worth while to be otherwise than bad. This being true of persons of mature mind and fairly settled character, is it not infinitely more important in case of persons whose character is in flux, and may, therefore easily be swayed one way or another? Another aspect of this question is the problem of developing in young persons faith in themselves; and, in this connection, of their getting a right conception of what is worthy and what is unworthy of a human being—of the moral dignity of mankind. This, coupled with a proper understanding of their own natures and possibilities, may be a powerful factor in helping them to realize the best in themselves, and also to encourage realization of the best in their companions. Without faith of some sort there can be no hope. Without both there is likely to be little earnest endeavor, and no basis for facing life cheerfully and joyfully. With both faith and hope there is a solid foundation for real progress and assurance of a disposition to attack 134 individual and social problems with determination to solve them and to make life a blessing. F all qualities of character love is, however, the greatest. It touches life more powerfully than does any other aspect of feeling or desire. It is so much stronger than reason aS a motive in conduct that the latter is often swept aside by the on rush of this powerful emotion. It is this fact probably that has led some contemporary psychologists to recommend elimination of the influence of love in human relations and more especially in the training of children. Development of personalities, however, calls for harmonization of the springs of conduct and control of their direction rather than for suppression of one side of human nature. To eliminate feeling is to undermine the basis of desire and to destroy in large measure the foundations upon which judgments of value depend. The religious and moral life cannot be developed apart from these judgments. Reason should, of course, be an important factor in determining the goals of life and an indispensable means of helping to realize these goals. In contrast with the ancient Greek usage, the term, love, as used in the New Testament, has reference to the most highly spiritual aspect of life. This type of love leads to actions in accord with the highest and most lasting welfare of mankind. In the family it is manifest in recognition of the worth of each person, and in constant effort to preserve and to develop that which is most worthy in each. Such an attitude on the part of each member of the family naturally leads to harmony, confidence, cheerful cooperation, and an enduring bond of union through which the joys of family life may be perpetuated. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE HE love and service that properly characterize life within the family fall short of the requirements of religious education unless they are extended to the life of the community. That "we are members one of another" is not only true of the family and the Church membership; it applies also to humanity as a whole. Failure to recognize this may be the occasion of small group selfishness, even of prayers that disregard the welfare of all outside the immediate family. Religious education properly calls for breadth of vision, universal sympathy, and practical interest in the welfare of humanity. This point of view is recognized in part, at least, by ancient writers, as indicated in the following: "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." (James 1:27) This practical phase of ancient Christianity is now being developed in the light of man's greater knowledge of his fellowmen, both in extension and in intention—both geographically and historically, on the one hand; and psychologically and socially, on the other. This wider knowledge and experience carries with it correspondingly greater obligations, obligations that have their beginnings in the family, but that can never end there. The family is a training school to prepare the members of each new generation for their responsibilities to humanity, and to the social institutions of which they are or ought to be members. The family should, therefore, take account of the future prospects and ambitions of each of its members and of their preparation for their life's work. The disposition of young people to look beyond the home and to yearn for wider experience RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN THE FAMILY is manifested early. The wanderlust of youth is one instance of this. Under proper parental guidance this inclination may lead to experiences that may greatly broaden the youth without corrupting him. A misunderstood youth, on the other hand, is sometimes led to satisfy his wanderlust in ways that may prove very detrimental. THE dreams of youth, it is generally recognized, have much to do with the accomplishment of later life. Among the most vital things about which a youth may dream are his future vocation and his future family life. No parent can afford to ignore or to belittle such dreams. The faith and the hope of youth in his future vocational possibilities should, with wise guidance, be encouraged, amended if need be, but never subjected to ridicule or discouragement. This point is well illustrated by the small boy who had watched the garbage man making his rounds. There was something adventurous in driving up and down the street, stopping at each can, lifting it over the wheel, emptying contents into the wagon. The little fellow ran to his mother and with eager voice exclaimed, "(When I'm big I'm going to be a garbage man!" The understanding mother smiled and replied, "All right son, that's useful work, but be sure you're the kind of garbage man who empties the can clean and who doesn't scatter litter all over the street." The fires of youthful enthusiasm are too often extinguished by a "wet blanket" thrown by some fellow member of the family. Such an act should be recognized as one of the major sins. 'An even greater sin, however, is that of treating lightly the loves or maybe fitful love dreams of youth. Sex love is a normal expression of 135 human instincts, one that is essential to the preservation of the race. The selection of a life's partner, and thereby the founding of a new family is one of the most delicately personal matters with which a youth may be concerned. This fact should be recognized 'by brothers and sisters aS well as by parents. It should be utilized to develop feelings of respect and reverence toward courtship and marriage, the results of which are so profoundly significant to the individuals immediately concerned, and also far reaching in their ultimate consequences in the life of humanity. What responsibility can be greater than that of bringing into being new persons and assuming to direct the course of their development? It is very significantly said that the family is educational in function and religious in character. Marriage should then be regarded as a religious institution, and the proper education of children the most sacred duty of the family. THE family life should be one of refinement and serious purposes; not however, solemn or sanctimonious, but on the contrary, cheerful and joyous. No vulgarity Or coarseness should ever be tolerated. Concentrating attention upon the finer things of life and upon the great and noble examples of men and women who have contributed most to the onward march of the spiritual life of mankind is an effective way of overcoming evil with good. It is unfortunate that because of speed of modern life and the disposition to multiply functions outside the home, the time available for cultivation of common interests in the home is often reduced to a minimum. There may, however, be at least some opportunity for this at
136
the dinner table, after the day's work is done. Family life should be enriched by all the material benefits the family budget can afford, such as carefully selected books and magazines, musical instruments, and music of an elevating sort. The advent of the radio also makes possible entertainment for all the family group in the home, and that with the greatest economy of time. There is, however, always the important problem of wise selection of radio periods and of topics of family conversation. This calls also for cultivation of common tastes and interests. The great masterpieces of music now played or sung over the radio by the world's leading musicians far surpass opportunities heretofore available to families generally. The great organ selections are especially of a very distinctly religious character, and may have the same beneficial influence upon the family group in the home as do similar types of music upon the congregation at church. Such instruments and musicians are not, however, available to many churches. There is also great value for religious education in listening to world famous orchestras and singers. Since there is so much of this type of entertainment now available, it is a great pity not to make the greatest possible use of it. This does not mean to exclude everything else. There are speeches, sermons, and news items well worth listening to, there is wholesome humor that gives rest and recreation, but there is no excuse for patronizing the low grade forms of entertainment, either within or without the home. Conversation in the family group, or between parent and child, should also grow out of common tastes and interests. The greatest guiding influence of parent upon child often
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
comes from informal association and conversation rather than from more formal procedures. A mere suggestion for thought may have greater weight with youth than formal instruction. Young people must ultimately work out their own conceptions of life, its values, and its activities. It is well that they should make a beginning early under wise guidance. This wise guidance in the home, however, lays a great responsibility upon parents, the responsibility of keeping pace with youth in knowledge and understanding of world progress and the problems that confront youth. Nothing is sadder and more disastrous, religiously and morally, than failure of parent and child to understand each other. A notable example of this is the rigid adherence of some parents to some traditional theological interpretations of natural history, while the youth is viewing nature and its history from the point of view of what he is taught in geology and biology. Each takes his point of view to be a flat contradiction of the other, and each may vigorously condemn the other's views as radically false; the one pronounced superstition, the other sacrilege. There is, evidently, need that each understand the other, that both earnestly seek the truth and meantime cultivate open mindedness, tolerance, and sympathetic understanding of those that hold opinions they cannot share. Religion is not a thing that can or ought to be thrust upon youth. It must develop in him as a part of his own nature. The parent's responsibility is to be a sympathetic helper. This will be accomplished more by what the parent is than by what he says. When he does speak, however, he should do so with understanding both of what he says and to whom he speaks.
RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN THE FAMILY
Another very important phase of religious education is the development of the highest type of loyalty. We say highest type because this quality of character is often misconceived and misused. There is the loyalty of lawbreakers to each other in their evil causes, which is generally accepted as evidence that they are not totally depraved. This use of loyalty is somewhat comparable to the use that yeggs make of the virtue of temperance; they cannot be successful burglars without it. So whether or not these qualities of character have real value for mankind as a whole, which is the ultimate test of right, depends upon the use that is made of them. What is the proper place of loyalty in religious education? It is one of the most basic and most essential character qualities of an individual, both as a member of a family and also as a member of larger social groups. It calls for exercise of faith, hope, and love, joined with knowledge in the promotion of a cause or causes that make for the highest and most enduring welfare of fellowmen. In the ethical and religious sense of the term it cannot be directed toward the good of one human group to the injury of other groups. The highest good of any member of the human race cannot properly conflict with the highest good of the race as a whole. Recognition of this prin-
137
ciple is a most important element in determining what is morally right in any given situation. Training in a right type of loyalty should begin with the young child in the home. He may be led very early to realize that he should be loyal to the best good of the family group; that this group has set up moral standards to be realized, and that his own personal pleasure should always be subordinate to these standards. The family name, as well as the welfare of each member of the family is at stake. In case the good of the individual seems to be in conflict with that of the family as a whole, this fact is evidence of mistaken judgment as to what is really good. Either the individual or the group may be mistaken. As the youth becomes an active member of larger social groups the same principle holds. Rightly understood loyalty to any group will not conflict with loyalty to the more inclusive groups or to society at large. The outcome then of this training in loyalty within the family will be development of loyalty to the most lasting good of humanity; this will include loyalty to truth and right. Such loyalty, however, calls for cooperation of each individual with his fellowmen in organizations of which the family is a type. Men and women must work together, and be loyal to each other, if they would succeed in furthering those causes that make for the highest and most enduring good of humanity. This is the fundamental purpose of religion; it is, therefore, a most necessary phase of religious education in the family.
I cannot but believe that in the heart of every "Mormon" boy and every "Mormon" girl there is a spiritual gold mine, awaiting development. To some, the development comes early, to others, late. Sometime, somewhere. But come it will. They are children of the Covenant; in their veins is the blood of Israel; and they have received, if baptized, the gift of the Holy Ghost, which manifests the things of God. How could all that go for naught?—"Through Memory's Halls," by Orson F. Whitney.
"Unto the Least of These"
Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest.
(Dedicated to the workers of Relief Society, who unceasingly follow the Christ.)

