Relation of Diet to Teeth By Anna Page, Nutrition Specialist, Utah State Department of Education WHY do teeth decay? During the last ten years we have gone far in answering this question. Until the present time the "fermentation" theory of tooth decay has been prevalent. There is no question but what fermentation plays an important role in tooth decay. Today there is indisputable evidence that soft, sticky, starchy, pasty foods that are allowed to stay in close contact with the teeth make an excellent breeding place for strongly acid forming bacteria. These bacteria if allowed to grow in contact with the teeth are capable of destroying them. Cooked starch has this effect while raw starch does not. This is the reason it is not advisable to use rich pies, cakes, pastry, or sweet foods at the end of the meal or in between meals. It is far better to finish the meal with raw fruits or vegetables. This habit is especially important when the teeth cannot be brushed immediately after meals. The using of raw fruits and vegetables at the end of the meal will help in mechanically keeping the teeth clean and in the prevention of fermentation. There is additional evidence to show that if the mouth is kept scrupulously clean and the teeth as free as possible from such fermentable material, the process of decay can be retarded. Dental decay cannot be entirely prevented by this means, as is shown by the large numbers of persons who have decayed teeth. There must be some other cause of tooth decay than that of fermentation to answer these questions. 'Why is it,' asks one dentist, "that a molar decays and a bicuspid remains sound in the same mouth, acted upon by the same bacteria and lodging food in the same spaces?" 'Why do the teeth of primitive people the world over—Eskimos, New Zealanders, Africans, and North American Indians deteriorate so quickly under the influence of civilization? Why, too, are the teeth of some civilized people, for example, the Highland Scotch, now losing the immunity which they have long enjoyed? Why has there been no decline, but rather an increase in the occurrence of dental decay in spite of the fact that methods for the daily care of the teeth similar to those in use today have been known and advocated by doctors and dentists for the last five hundred years? Recent studies show causes of tooth decay may be determined by forces inside the tooth, which probably means that the tooth has not been well formed because of the lack of right building material. Correct diet may be the determining factor in prevention of tooth decay. The problem of tooth decay and the building of good teeth is one of our most important problems in nutrition at the present time. Emphasis is being put on laying the foundation for the growing of strong teeth, and diet is considered the most important factor. Ninety to ninety-five per cent of all children in the United States suffer from dental decay. In cities and states where surveys of mouth conditions of school children have been made, the average number of cavities in the teeth of each child has been found to be six. Dr. Cross from his investigation in 1923 states that all adult dental 158 diseases except pyorrhea are the result of poor tooth development or neglect of the proper diet and hygiene during childhood. Dead teeth, focal infection, and diseases of the heart, kidneys and joints are the result of childhood neglect of the teeth. There is now every reason to believe that we may be able to avoid many of the disasters due to infected teeth. This can be overcome by building strong teeth by right food habits. Dr. McCollum states that the development of sound teeth capable of resisting destructive agencies is essentially a dietary problem. The small jaws and the crowding of the teeth as frequently seen in children today are almost certainly the result of faulty skeletal development, and will be influenced by the same dietary factors which favor the development of rickets. The tooth is composed of three different parts: 1. The enamel or the outer covering of the tooth. This is the hardest substance in the body, it is hard and brittle in texture and has a smooth, lustrous, and whitish appearance. The enamel of the tooth is not put on all at the same time. The enamel is composed of tiny prisms tightly fitted together. While it is possible for the enamel to be put together so well that the dentine is completely covered, yet there are chances for grooves. The enamel becomes undermined through the action of acid that forms normally in the mouth and grooves result. Sticky, starchy and pasty foods adhere to the teeth and if not properly washed away, change to acid which in time will cause the teeth to decay. The acid roughens the enamel, and this causes more starch to stick, which again produces more acid. This is the reason why the meal should not be finished with rich pies, cakes or puddings, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE but it would be much better to use a raw fruit or vegetable to help mechanically in cleaning the teeth. 2. The dentine is a softer substance under the enamel. It is a kind of bony substance. The dentine of the growing child is constantly nourished. In 1925 was demonstrated the existence of a circulatory mechanism inside the tooth which allows for its continuous nutrition, both during growth and after full growth has been obtained. Strange as it may seem, it also permits withdrawal of calcium and phosphorous in time of stress, making the teeth more subject to decay. This emphasizes the point that a well balanced diet is necessary throughout the growing period of _ the child and for the protection of the adult's teeth. 3. The pulp is soft tissue composed largely of cells, blood vessels, and nerves, having its outer layer made up of dentine forming cells. The saliva in the mouth has a preservative action on the teeth. Normally the saliva helps to keep the teeth cleaned. As both talking and chewing help to increase the flow of saliva, these help to keep the teeth clean. For this reason at least one hard food every day and one chewey food at each meal is strongly recommended. The hard foods are crusts of bread, toast, hard rolls. The chewey foods are meats, nuts, raw vegetables and fruits. The importance of the diet in the formation of sound teeth is emphasized by the fact that the calcification of the first set of teeth is begun before birth. The teeth begin to form between the third and fourth month of pregnancy and the crowns of the first permanent molars are formed before birth. It is clear that good teeth are determined in RELATION OF DIET TO TEETH a great measure before the child is born. It is true that serious damage may, and often does, occur to the teeth after birth. The infectious diseases of childhood, such as measles, scarlet fever, and other 'infectious diseases, may temporarily interrupt the development of the teeth, and when development is resumed a fault may be visible in the enamel to mark the event. Correct diet throughout the growing period of the child is a very important factor. In the development of sound teeth. Delayed cutting of the teeth, crooked and malformed teeth, have been regarded by many physicians as a symptom of rickets. Recently Drs. Julius Blum and Jacob Mellion have published the results of a statistical study of the time of eruption of the teeth in eighty-seven rachitic and sixty-eight non-rachitic infants. The children were residents of a children's home in New York. Their results show the cases of rickets observed were mild and the time of eruption of the first tooth varied considerably even among the normal children; nevertheless the rachitic children were distinctly behind the normal ones in their teething schedule. About one-tenth of the normal babies had their first tooth when they were six months old, whereas none of the rachitic children had a tooth at this age. At nine months almost two-thirds of the normal children and only one-fourth of the rachitic children had a first tooth, and at one year all but one of the normal babies and only threefourths of the rachitic children had a tooth. Teething was delayed until the twelfth to the fifteenth month in eighteen of the infants having rickets. In four cases the teeth did not erupt until the fifteenth to the twenty-first month. The authors state that not only the first tooth but also the eruption of subsequent teeth 159 is delayed by rickets. Even in the mildest form of rickets at present recognizable, there is a definite delay of dentition in rachitic children as compared with normal babies. There are many statements at the present time to show that the quality and structure of the permanent teeth are affected by rickets, and that the teeth of rachitic children are particularly subject to decay. All the late research work shows that there is a very close relation between the formation of bone and prevention of rickets and the proper development and calcification of the teeth. Rickets can be prevented by giving sufficient amount of Vitamin D. Vitamin D is necessary for the proper utilization of the calcium and phosphorus in the building of both bones and sound teeth. Results from recent investigations support the theory that poor. Structure is a predisposing cause of tooth decay and indicate that the presence of Vitamin D in the diet is essential not only for the original development of the tooth but for its protection later in life. In order to insure sound teeth children need during the time that the teeth are being formed a large supply of Vitamin D. The best foods which are sources of Vitamin D are egg yolk and large amounts of milk and butter. Foods cannot be relied on entirely as an adequate source of Vitamin D, but cod liver oil, viosterol, ultra violet ray, sun baths should be used in addition. The question is frequently asked, do adults need Vitamin D? The answer is yes, but not in as large amounts as do growing children. Adults can probably get their requirement of Vitamin D, except in special cases, from the short rays of the sun and from egg yolks. During pregnancy and lactation, Vitamin D is needed, in larger 160 amounts. This Vitamin has a beneficial influence on both the mother and the child; on the mother in the protection of her own teeth and bones; on the child in helping to lay the foundation for good bones and teeth. Dentists report that there are more cases of tooth decay in pregnant women than any other group of individuals. Most physicians advise the taking of cod liver oil or some source of Vitamin D during pregnancy. The teeth are composed of calcium and phosphorous. In order to furnish the necessary building material for sound teeth an adequate amount of calcium and phosphorous are necessary. Dr. Sherman says that fifty per cent of the American people are suffering from calcium starvation. Statistics show that 50-75% of the children in the United States have rickets and 90-95% of the school children have one or more decayed teeth. Both of these conditions may result from the lack of calcium in the diet. Milk is the most dependable source of calcium, which is convincing proof that every child should have a full quart of milk -daily. It is just as important that adults have the generally accepted one pint requirement, however, in most cases the adult diet would be improved by having the full quart of milk if they desire to protect their teeth. Other good sources of calcium are buttermilk, cheese, American cottage cheese; vegetables, as spinach, celery, cabbage, cauliflower, string beans, turnips, oranges, prunes, almonds, oat meal, whole grain cereals. If Vitamin C is lacking in the diet, irregular spaced teeth are produced, the gums become red and swollen and the teeth become loose. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Dr. Howe has found in experiments with guinea pigs that when there is a lack of Vitamin C the teeth become very soft, they bend easily and decay appears in a large number of cases. They also develop a condition very closely resembling pyorrhea in man. The gums become red and spongy and ready to bleed upon the slightest pressure, the jaw bone is absorbed to such an extent that the teeth become loose and may actually drop out. In many ° instances there is also a copious flow of pus from the tissues surrounding the tooth. When the animal is fed orange juice, however, the gums become healthy once more, the teeth tighten up, and the pus disappears. Dr. Hanke made an extensive study of the effect of diet upon dental disease, both pyorrhea and dental caries in human mouths. He reports that every case of dental disorder either caries or pyorrhea was associated with some dietary deficiency. The results of the improvement of the diet of these patients have been astonishing. Very large quantities of Vitamin C in oranges and lemon juice have brought about almost unbelievable rapid cures of pyorrhea and an apparent complete cessation of decay. The quantities of Vitamin C which must be used to obtain these remarkable results are, however, far in excess of what has previously been considered necessary for the average person. The foods recommended by Dr. Hanke as the most agreeable sources of Vitamin C are orange juice, lemon juice, and lettuce. These he bélieves should be eaten daily in the following amounts: the juice of one lemon mixed with sufficient orange juice to make one pint, plus at least onefourth head of lettuce. For children from six to ten years of age he recommends one-half of these quantities. RELATION OF DIET TO TEETH Most of the raw fruits and vegetables contain Vitamin C. As Vitamin C is destroyed to a certain extent by cooking, some raw fruit or vegetable is needed daily. There needs to be an increase in the amount of Vitamin C that is found in the average American diet. How much of an increase is not definitely known, but at least two or three good sources of Vitamin C should be taken daily. Tomatoes, oranges, lemons, pineapple, bananas, apples, lettuce, celery, raw carrots, and cabbage 161 are the best sources of Vitamin At the present time it cannot be said definitely that the health of the teeth depends upon any one element in the diet. But it is quite definitely known that the most common dental disorders, tooth decay and pyorrhea are primarily dietary deficiency diseases, which can be in a large part, if not entirely, prevented by a diet that contains generous quantities of the tooth building materials, calcium, phosphorous, Vitamin D and Vitamin C.

