[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | October | Issue: 9 | Title: DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES. | Author: Unknown]

DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES.
	The Woman Suffragists of Massachusetts
in Delegate Convention assembled, respect-
fully submit to the people of the Common-
wealth the reasons which compel them for
the first time to make independent nomina-
tions for State officers.
	For many years they have appealed to
both the great political parties of the State
to rectify the injustice which taxes and gov-
erns women without their consent, and
which subjects them to cruel legal disabili-
ties, as wives, mothers and widows. But
their appeals have been disregarded. The
Republican party of Massachusetts, after
repeatedly endorsing Woman Suffrage in
its platform and repudiating it in the Legis-
lature, has just refused to invite Republican
women to take part in the nomination of
their representatives, and has framed a
platform which it declares has a double
meaning on the Suffrage issue. The Demo-
cratic party of the State has refused to
take any action on the subject. The Pro-
hibitory party of the State, on the contrary,
has invited women to take part in its pri-
mary meetings, with an equal voice and
vote in the nomination of candidates and
the transaction of business. It has made
the establishment of Woman Suffrage one

[COLUMN 2]

of its avowed objects, and has nominated
candidates, all of whom are Suffragists.
	State governments have jurisdiction over
matters with which the National Govern-
ment has no concern. We maintain that
State officers should be elected upon State
issues, independent of National politics.
And, whereas, Woman Suffrage is purely a
question of State policy, it is the duty of
Woman Suffragists of Massachusetts so to
cast their ballots next November as to rep-
resent their principles in the choice of
State officers.
	Believing that "Governments are just
only when they rest on the consent of the
governed," and that the establishment of
a truly representative government is vastly
more important than the success of Rice or
Adams, we commend the nominees of this
Woman Suffrage State Convention to the
Suffrages of the people, irrespective of
party, as the candidates who represent Im-
partial Suffrage and Equal Rights for all."
	Mrs. Livermore's speech was spirited
and eloquent, containing many excellent
points; she referred to the temperance
movement resting with women and that
men felt it to be so; she believed there
were 30,000 votes in the state that could be
obtained for Woman Suffrage. She spoke
of the influence of women in making pub-
lic meetings quiet and orderly. She ex-
horted women not to be scared by the word
"unwomanly," which scares so many out of
their boots. The definition of the word
womanly, means "being a fool," to most
men." She said if consecration makes
men noble, it lifts women to the height of
a grand purpose."
	Mrs. Spaulding, of Cambridge, offered
the following resolution, which was passed
without discussion:
	"Resolved, That we pledge ourselves as
Suffragists to vote for no person for Sena-
tor or Representative to the General Court,
who is not fully committed to the Suffrage
movement, and that the State Central Com-
mittee be instructed to take measures to en-
able Suffragists to carry this resolution at
the polls."


