For the Salvation of a Nation Women play an important part in the opening of new mission.
By Arthur Gaeth, President of Czechoslovak Mission
LAST July another chapter in the spreading of the gospel among the people of the earth was begun. The first missionaries were sent to Czechoslovakia to lay a foundation for the promulgation of the Lord's message among the Czechs, so that eventually they and all their Slavic brethren, in Poland, Jugoslavia, Russia, Bulgaria and the other Balkan countries, might hear His voice.
The Part Taken By Women
FOR some time it had been the aim of the authorities of the Church to open a mission among these people, but the earnest pleading of a mother and her daughters that their countrymen might also be permitted to hear the gospel, no doubt carried great weight and was an impetus to speed a decision.
On the 24th of July, 1929, the Czechoslovak Mission was dedicated under the direction of Apostle John A. Widtsoe; Arthur Gaeth was appointed its first president. Five other brethren, Elders Alvin C. Carlson, Joseph I. Hart, Willis Hayward, Wallace F. Toronto and Charles Josie, were stationed in Prague with Elder Gaeth to begin their labors of opening up the new field.
These brethren have since partaken of the cheerful hospitality of Sister Franziska Brodil and her family, and have felt their wonderful spirit. To them the gospel has come as a blessing for their years of faithfulness. In Czechoslovakia they were without the companionship of missionaries and had to undergo trials and hardships. They have an interesting story to tell. Let the readers of the Relief Society Magazine hear it from Sister Brodil's own lips.
A Story of Conversion
ONE day she related to me the following story: "I was born on the 12th of January, 1881, the daughter of a miller in a little village in southern Bohemia. The youngest girl in a family of ten children, and growing up in a typical rural Bohemian environment, I was blessed with a mother who had the disposition of an angel and was very religious. My father, on the other hand, although very intelligent, was a licentious, carefree, brutal type of man, causing my mother untold sorrow and tribulation. Her face was sorrowful from a grief we could not comprehend. Only the older children knew and imparted to us later that she had often been on the verge of ending her life, but her faith in God and the thought of us ten children held her back. We loved and worshipped her, and she was surrounded by all of us when she bid us goodbye for the last time. We laid her to rest in the little village cemetery. We were her entire joy in life, and it is entirely to her credit that we all are living straightforward, honest lives. Father's negligence, on the other hand, ruined him. Forced to sell the mill, he died in poverty, alone and broken.
Shortly after mother passed away, I went when about 18 years old to Vienna to live with my oldest sister. It was not difficult for me to leave the little country town; I had never experienced the love of a good home there as I have since felt it now that I have two children of my own and learned to know into what a haven home can be made. In Vienna I soon became acquainted with my future husband, marrying him in February, 1904.
How She Joined the Church
FROM early childhood I had been blessed with religious inclinations. When the priest read Bible passages and delivered his sermons, I learned the passages by heart, and could tell, almost verbatim, what the sermons contained. When I went to Vienna, I began to read the Bible, finding many interesting things in it, but also some that caused me to wonder. From the lives of the supposed representatives of Jesus Christ with whom I was acquainted, I could perceive that there was a difference between Christ's teachings and their interpretation. They were using the teachings as a sham to carry out their own evil designs. These things disturbed me, and I began to wonder if there really was a God; and if there was, where his Prophets were. The responsibility of my children deepened this feeling, but the Lord willed that I should not be kept in ignorance much longer.
ONE day a young man who came to the door offered me a little pamphlet that I was at first unwilling to take; but he finally prevailed upon me. Reading it with some misgiving, I soon found its message wholesome. When he returned with
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a second tract, I began to read with deeper interest. This brought him and his companion to my home repeatedly, and I soon discovered a large difference between the work of God and that of man. I was receiving an answer to my question, Is there a prophet of God upon the earth? Missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints were quenching the thirst for truth of another soul.
After visiting the meetings in Vienna, I soon became a member, being baptized by Brother B. H. Bennion on September 29, 1911.
The Great War Calamity
MY heart now swelled with a feeling of satisfaction, and at my confirmation I felt myself filled with a new power. The next few months were indeed happy ones; then it seemed as if a wet, dark blanket had been placed over the entire affair. The World War broke out, the missionaries were called home, and all the brethren went to war. A handful of sisters remaining in Vienna conducted our meetings. With Bible classes held regularly, we tried to do our part, but those were trying times. Often we lacked the meager necessities of life. The last two years of the war were so horrible that we almost died from starvation. Bread, potatoes, and a few vegetables were doled out to us, but never was there enough for a healthy meal. We managed somehow to live through it; but when we came out of it, we were mere skeletons compared with what we were when we entered the war.
Then followed an upheaval of governments and a revolution, resulting in the organization of the Czechoslovak State. All those of Czech nativity in Austrian governmental
FOR THE SALVATION OF A NATION
positions were thrown out of work, and my husband soon found himself without employment. The Czech government promised to transport all these people to their own confines and give them work, but several months passed before anything happened. My husband, a musician and an official, was of a temperamental nature, and the worry of finding means wherewith to provide for his family caused him much suffering. When we were finally moved to Prague in Czechoslovakia, he was already a sick man. Placed in a hospital for some months, he finally passed away, leaving me alone with my two children. He had not been prepared to receive the gospel, although he was always a friend of the Church; but I have the greatest hopes that salvation will come to him on the other side.
Return of the Elders
TRYING indeed were the next years. I was alone in Prague, with no friends and with two children who still had to be sent to school. My brother in South America came to my rescue and sent me the money that enabled me to send my children on through school. Several years passed, and though we heard little of the Church, we continued to live according to its commandments. Finally, one day, we were visited by President Serge Ballif and Brother Niederhauser of the Vienna Branch; and on the 3d of June, 1921, my two daughters, Franziska and Jana, were baptized in the Vitava (Moldau), thus becoming the first two members to be baptized on Czech soil. These brethren brought encouragement, saying that they would soon send us missionaries so that we should not be alone. I received other encouragements, but no brethren came for some years.
WHEN President Fred Tadje came to preside over the German Mission with headquarters at Dresden, visits to Prague were more frequent, missionaries stopping off in Prague to see us on their way from Dresden to Vienna. Then I became seriously ill. Brother Sheets was called from Vienna to administer to me, but I did not get well. One day Brother Jean Wunderlich came from Dresden. He laid his hands upon my head and promised me that I would not die, but would again be well and strong, for I still had a great work to do on this earth. After that I recovered, and was much encouraged.
For some time we figured that with President Tadje's release in 1926, something would be done through the Church at home; but again the months passed. Then we were visited by Apostle James E. Talmage and President and Sister Valentine. They held a wonderful meeting with us, and we had a long conversation on the subject of missionaries; but the time was not yet ripe. In February, 1928, old Brother Thomas Biesinger, 84 years of age, was sent to Prague. He came, and going to the officials discovered that no difficulties would be placed in the path of the missionaries if they wished to come. The constitution allowed absolute religious freedom. Two and a half months later he was released to return home and no one was sent to take his place. That was our darkest hour, for we knew that there were no obstacles in the path of the missionaries, yet they did not come.
 
THE BRODIL FAMILY, PRAGUE, CZECHOSLOVAKIA
Opening of the Mission
THEN I received a thought. I would write to the First Presidency. We wrote a letter and inclosed it with one to Brother Jean Wunderlich, asking him to translate it into English. From him I soon received word that he had done so. With the encouragement that work in South America had been opened in somewhat the same manner, a plea was sent in by some of the members there. Soon we received our first communication from President Widtsoe, in which he asked for definite information concerning conditions in the country. We wrote to and received frequent letters from President Widtsoe, till one day the word came that missionaries would be with us the following summer. We were inclined to doubt; but when Brother Arthur Hasler, President of the Vienna District, returned from the Priesthood Centennial of the German-Austrian Mission in Leipzig in May, 1929, he stopped in Prague and brought us the joyful news that Brother Arthur Gaeth had been appointed by President Widtsoe to come to Prague and start investigations for the immediate opening of the Czechoslovak Mission. When Brother Gaeth came two days later, this hope was fulfilled, but we could hardly believe our eyes. Soon President Widtsoe was also in our midst, and five missionaries came from the Swiss-German and German-Austrian Mission. On the 24th of July, 1929, the pioneer work in Czechoslovakia was performed and this country became a mission of the Church. Few people can realize the joy we experienced, for we have been praying for years for this day. There are thousands of our countrymen who are waiting for the gospel, and it is our prayer that the Lord will help our brethren to learn the language so that they can impart the message to them. We thank the Lord from the bottom of our hearts."
Sister Franziska Brodil Prague, Czechoslovakia.
FOR THE SALVATION OF A NATION 239
The Work Progresses
TO people such as these we young brethren came in July, 1929. They were overjoyed to see us. That longing look for help soon left their eyes as they put their shoulders to the wheel and helped to open many a door in the preliminary work of getting established in Prague. They were able assistants to us in the language. Sister Brodil, assisted by her two daughters, teaches our Sunday School in Czech. The mother has provided her children with a very liberal education, so that they speak Czech and German perfectly, and also understand and speak English well. The Lord had prepared the field and they were able to do translating for us. But above all, they have been as a mother and sisters to six young missionaries who were sent into a new environment, with a new language to learn. We have three wonderful members here, to whom in our difficulties, we can turn for help and consolation. Their sweet spirits are a fountain of strength. Six brethren are indeed thankful to the Lord that these sisters live in Prague and that they have been permitted to partake of their hospitality, their wonderful spirit and testimony.
Evidence By Alberta H. Christensen
Spring slipped into my garden plot last night On slender, noiseless feet. I did not hear her footstep on the grass, Or know the hour of coming—see her pass, But lo today thru my broad window pane I see an apple tree aflame With perfumed loveliness, all white And pinkish, with a touch of green Poking its timid self between The velvet clusters.
Spring slipped into my heart last night, I know, With gentle, tender tread. I did not hear her knock upon the door; A warmer clasp of hand there was, no more. But lo today my heart brims o'er with song— A melody all glad and wild and strong. Although I did not see her come or go, Spring came last night—I know, I know.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - First Counselor
MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Manager - - - - - LOUISE Y. ROBISON Assistant Manager - - - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.

 
EDITORIAL
Ten Years of Suffrage
ON Wednesday, March 26, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, President of the American Suffrage Association, spoke from the National Broadcasting Studio in New York. Her address commemorated the passage, ten years ago, of the Federal Suffrage Amendment in the Senate of the United States.
Any thought of suffrage recalls the great struggle: the forty years' devotion of Susan B. Anthony, the years of work of Anna Howard Shaw, and the distinguished service of Carrie Chapman Catt, now seventy years of age. Of necessity there was much sacrifice, much humiliation, and much fatigue along the way; but it was a glorious struggle, and glorious has been its consummation.
It presented a situation in which tragedy and comedy often mingled. At one time, when suffrage leaders were before the Senate Judiciary Committee urging that the amendment be presented to Congress, one of the members of the Committee said, he did not think women wanted suffrage. "For instance," he said, "my wife does not want suffrage." His wife, sitting by Anna Howard Shaw, promptly said, "I do want suffrage, and he knows it. I have told him so again and again." To which Dr. Shaw answered, "Tell him once more."
IT was our privilege to be at the National Suffrage Convention of 1918, held in St. Louis. Three things made it notable. First, the
EDITORIAL 241
Convention was celebrating the fiftieth year of suffrage in Wyoming, which was the first state to receive suffrage. Secondly, the state of Missouri passed a Suffrage Bill during that session, and Missouri was farther south than any other state that had granted suffrage up to that time. Thirdly, Mrs. Catt delivered there one of the notable speeches of her life. This is no idle remark; we feel sure that competent judges would vote her one of the best speakers in America. On this particular evening, Anna Howard Shaw introduced Mrs. Catt in the following language: "And now it is my privilege and pleasure to introduce to you a woman who is the peer of any man in America."
It is perhaps sufficient to remark that while there was on that program a Governor noted for his ability as a speaker, no other address that evening won the applause from the audience or the favorable and unusual comments from the press that the address of Carrie Chapman Catt received.
Behind these great leaders stood a host of patriotic, struggling, determined women. Many deserve special mention, which our limited space will not permit. To all who contributed their talent and energy in the leadership of this great movement, as well as to all who cooperated with those who led, we express undying gratitude.
Some Things Women Can Do
IN the days of good Queen Elizabeth the idea of taking a census began. People were suspicious?loath to give statistics to government officials. Since that time, they have learned that the first step toward remedying an evil is to recognize it. Statistics are the basis upon which most reform movements are founded. They are the means wherewith governments collect the information that enables them to make comparisons. Facts in regard to disease, mortality and crime, as well as many things that are of an encouraging nature, make a census invaluable. It is a mark of intelligence to cooperate whole heartedly with the census enumerators by answering their questions as quickly and accurately as possible.
WHILE we are talking about the census, may we add a word about the prohibition poll conducted by the Literary Digest. It is usually conceded that women are the heartiest supporters of prohibition. Yet some have been careless about the ballots that have been sent them. Those desiring the repeal of the 18th amendment are militant, hence those who desire the amendment enforced must be militant also. Indifference and carelessness are ineffective weapons with which to maintain the right.
We are Proud of Both of You
TO Mrs. Bertha A. Kleinman, who has done such splendid work on the pageant we extend
 
heartiest congratulation. It is a matter of distinct pride to the women of the Church that she should have been called from her home in Arizona to put into rhythmical form many of the lines that are so enchanting a part of the Centennial pageant. We have always been glad to publish Mrs. Kleinman's poems in the Relief Society Magazine, for we say without hesitation that she is one of the most gifted of our writers. When we selected a group of Latter-day Saint women for our lesson work, Mrs. Kleinman was one of the first to be listed. The quality of her work made her selection inevitable. We hope that this pageant will be at least the nucleus of a piece of enduring art which will be a monument to the talent and spirit of the Latter-day Saints.
NEXT we wish to congratulate Mrs. Florence Jepperson Madsen, who for two years has been the musical director of the "Mission Play," produced at San Gabriel, California. The play is put on at a theater, built at a cost of $1,000,000. Its three-thousandth performance was given February 17, 1930. It has been running for nineteen years and during the season has been produced once each day. So far as is known, it has had the longest run of any play yet produced. Its author is Dr. John Stephan McGroarty, nationally famous writer and at present a member of the staff of the Los Angeles Times. At the special performance in February each person paid $100.00 for his ticket. We are certainly proud that two of our Latter-day Saint women have made such outstanding contributions to two pieces of art born of the life of the great West, and dear to the heart of the West.
This Issue Devotes Space to Work in Missions
FOR a number of years the May Magazine has been devoted to a Mother's Day issue. This year we feel that our readers will welcome in its stead an issue placing emphasis on the work in the Missions. That the Latter-day Saints Missions are gaining in importance year by year is evident from the fact that the Saints are no longer advised to emigrate, but rather to build up strong Branches and Conferences in their own native lands. Consequently they go at their work with great zeal; and while the scope is not so great as in the Wards and Stakes at home, the Spirit behind it is intense, full of ardor, full of interest. Nowhere is there a better exemplification of the promise of the Lord that where a few would gather in his name, he would be there also, than in the work of the various auxiliary organizations in the mission field. We are happy, therefore, to include in this issue something in relation to the work of various missions.
Notes from the Field
Southern States Mission
SISTER Grace E. Callis, president of the Southern States Relief Society, reports the following:
"WE have closed a year in which the sisters have found joy and nearness to the Lord by proving the truth of the old saying that actions speak louder than words, especially when it comes to looking after the wants and needs of the poor and needy, ministering to the sick and afflicted, and comforting the sorrowing. When people are ill, they ponder the gospel; and under these conditions visiting teachers feel free to preach the gospel to strangers, and conversions have been the result.
"Four new Societies have been organized. This action came in response to the request of women who are anxious to be engaged in the Relief Society work. It gives them an opportunity to minister to the poor and sick, and to show sympathy to the afflicted.
FINDING homes for orphans, giving material aid to enable crippled children to receive surgical treatment by specialists, and furnishing new chapels, are some of the outstanding services that our Societies have given this past year.
"The sisters in historic Charleston, South Carolina, with praiseworthy planning and diligence, have raised the sum of $333.00 to help purchase a lot, upon which the Church will build a chapel. During the Christmas season the spirit of kindness, which is the soul of Relief Society work, was given expression by the Societies in sending baskets of provisions to the poor, remembering the widows, and providing Christmas trees to Sunday School children.
"The new record book is especially adapted to conditions here, and is sincerely appreciated. The lessons, instructions, and articles in the Relief Society Magazine inspire us to keep in harmony with the spirit and genius of the work. Interest and membership are growing. How thankful we should be that the Lord has a work for his daughters to do, and that while charity begins at home, it ought not and does not end there."
Northwestern States Mission
FROM Sister Pearl C. Sloan, of the Northwestern States Mission comes this cheering message:
"We are much pleased over our annual reports. We note the increase in all activities, especially in members enrolled; and feel that through the Book of Mormon lessons, we are gaining more members. Among our younger sisters, we have some very splendid class leaders, who add enthusiasm to the work. The increase in our attendance has had a tendency also to increase our Magazine subscriptions. We are very happy to note this, for we realize that the Magazine is one of the greatest assets that we have. Some of the Societies have been made happy by having subscriptions sent in from women who are interested in the work but are not members of the Church. Everywhere that I have gone throughout the mission I have found splendid women who have been active in the Relief Society who do not yet claim membership in the Church. We have the feeling
 
that the Relief Society is rendering excellent missionary service."
New Zealand Mission
SISTER Jennie E. Magleby president of our far-away New Zealand Mission writes:
"We have a number of new organizations in the mission. The new officers within the different organizations have a renewed spirit of serving in their calling. With your faith and prayers and ours added to the call for Relief Society progress, the Lord will grant us the blessings of our labors. The future appears to be most promising.
"Our Relief Society members have been enjoying the activities of district conferences. Half of the Sunday evening programs have been devoted to the Relief Society. We have put on the pageant, 'Make Your Home a Heaven.' Songs and home talks were concurrent with the pageant. The opportunity given to the Relief Society has added zest and happiness in being able to do their part in expounding the teachings. The programs have been greatly appreciated, and have been of much benefit to those taking part as well as to the audience.
"Our work meetings are directed towards the functions for Hui Tau, our annual conference. At small cost, we have made many beautiful floor mats, quilts, comforters, and other things. The art-color designs and workmanship are worthy of great praise. They are sold at the conventions and thus re-enforce our funds.
THE theme for the coming conference is: 'The organization of the Relief Society and its objectives.' On January 5, 1930, a model conference will be held at Auckland. We have the following
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 245
program to be carried out on Sunday evening: 'We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet.' Talk by a Relief Society member, 'The Prophet Joseph Smith.' Duet, 'Sing a Wondrous Story.' Talk by a Relief Society member, 'History of the Relief Society and Its Purpose.' Song, 'Sweet is the work.' 'Relief Society Loyalty,' by one of the members. The program concludes with the song, 'Beautiful Words of Love.' Then the Mutual organization finishes the evening with its numbers.
"These Sunday evening conferences provide an opportunity for the Relief Society workers to express themselves. One of the spiritual talks was delivered by a sister who had never before appeared before an audience. She could hardly keep from weeping after she finished. She was so happy to have had the opportunity of bearing her testimony and giving her thoughts as to 'The Duties of Parents in Rearing Children.'
"I love the labor, and shall always cherish the pleasant hours spent in the Relief Society work in New Zealand."
Northern States Mission
THIS picture represents the Milwaukee branch Relief Society of the Northern States mission. Every sister in this group is a subscriber to the Relief Society Magazine, and president Pond says each of them is a real Latter-day Saint. Sister Allie Y. Pond reports that the Relief Society organization completed at Galesburg, Illinois, is a small branch, yet every member takes the Relief Society Magazine. Like all others, this mission has its difficulties, but the workers have the spirit of enthusiasm; and not
MILWAUKEE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY
only in the branches that have been mentioned, but in every part of the mission field we have received the same encouraging report. The sisters are keenly alive to their work, and are interesting many investigators.
German-Austrian Mission
WE are indebted to Brother Edward P. Kimball, president of the German-Austrian Mission, for the following photographs, and the account of the activities of
 
No. 1
No. 2
the Relief Society in this far away land. Reported.
Brother Kimball writes: "On the evening of November 20, 1929, the Forst branch Relief Society of the Spreewald District of this mission held a very successful bazaar. Because of its supremacy among all bazaars held in this field, we feel that you may be interested in a short report of it.
"The bazaar was held in the large reception hall of the Hotel Kaiserhof. Despite the large number of unemployed in the realms of the city, there was a most commendable attendance. As proof of the integrity of the Relief Society sisters and their organization and branch presidency, it was reported that all rent, light, heat, and similar costs were cared for before the evening opened, through voluntary contributions gathered from various willing business concerns. Even city officials were made to feel the value of such a worthy endeavor, and rendered assistance in varied ways.
"The branch president reports further that the bazaar in two hours, had taken in for their organization, over 900 Marks (nearly $220.00). The final receipts, considering articles disposed of and those yet on hand, reached near 1,200 marks (nearly $300.00).
"Not only was the evening a success in a financial way, but from a spiritual standpoint it was very remarkable. The program numbers given, the gospel contacts made with friends, etc., were of a type that make for progress in any mission.
"The postcards enclosed are as follows: No. 1 gives a picture of
No. 3
No. 4
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 247
all who assisted with the bazaar; No. 2 is the middle booth for white goods and fancy work; No. 3 the booth for sandwiches, meats, and salads. At this bazaar 350 sandwiches were sold, the materials for which were mostly contributed free of charge by the business houses of the city; No. 4 indicates the second life picture, 'The Church-way.' In the spinning room the song 'The Evil Tongues' was sung. At the close, the picture was presented.
PROUD of the results achieved we trust that our report to you will give you an idea of the fine work our local people of this land are accomplishing. This branch is entirely in the hands of local Priesthood. Missionaries have not had charge of it for some time."
This certainly is an eloquent expression of the zeal and the interest of the saints in this fine branch.
Eastern States Mission
SISTER Pearl Agren, Counselor and Secretary of the Eastern States Mission, writes:
"On July 5, 1929, Sister Alice D. Moyle was appointed to succeed Sister Olita Melville as president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Societies. During November, President Louise Y. Robison visited several of our Societies. Her sweet spirit and words of encouragement and advice were an inspiration?an incentive to work more diligently. It was a privilege to hear her.
In January, 1929, West Virginia was taken from the Eastern States Mission into the East Central States Mission. At that time this mission lost six Relief Societies, viz., White Sulphur Springs, Huntington, New Martinsville, Verdunville, and Ketterman. Before this change took place there were 33 Relief Societies in the Eastern States Mission.
 
Since the beginning of the year 1929, the Auburn and Wilson Relief Societies have discontinued, and the Bronx and Long Island divisions of the New York Relief Society have come together again, thus making a further decrease of four Societies in the mission. At present there are 23 Societies with a total membership of 392 women, most of whom are faithful, sincere workers desirous of serving God and their fellowmen. It is a real pleasure to work with them.
IN all Societies of this mission the members of the Relief Society are few and widely scattered; nevertheless, they are doing fine work. The Palmyra Relief Society leads all the others in charity, Buffalo, Palmyra, and New York Societies are to be complimented on their fine visiting teachers' work. Because of the fact that the members are widely scattered and that many of them are employed in factories, shops, etc., during the day, it is almost impossible to carry on visiting teachers' work in many of the Societies. When carried on, the visits have resulted in better Relief Society work.
"We appreciate the willing cooperation and help the missionaries have given. They have incited interest and enthusiasm among the members.
"The officers aim to keep in close contact with all the Societies through personal visits and letters, and the Societies in general are in a state of progress and peace."