Faith and Faithfulness Triumphant A TRUE STORY
By Lula Greene Richards
THERE were no clouds visible in the sky nor anything in all the world of even a grayish appearance so far as could be seen by Albert Clements. He stood or moved about as if standing or walking in the air, so light and buoyant was the beating of his strong, healthy young heart. No wonder the world seemed beautiful to him that peerless autumn morning. It was his birthday, and nineteen years before, on the 19th of November, 1801, his birth had occurred at Fort Ann, Washington County, State of New York. That place, with his parents, had always been his home. There it was that he was now engaged in chopping down trees on his father's farm, which were to be used for timber in building a house and making a home for himself and Ada Winchell, his sweetheart.
Ada was one month and five days his junior, having been born December 24, 1801, at Hebsen, in the same county and State as himself. Good fortune had brought about an agreeable acquaintance between these two young persons, which almost immediately took on the form of a genuine friendship, and soon ripened into pure, first love. Not until that faultless morning had Albert made his declaration and asked Ada to become his wife. The girl, who was chaste and honest in thought and being, without hesitation had met his proposal half way and agreed that their marriage should take place very soon. By Ada's "very soon" she had not thought to indicate an earlier period than the next spring or summer. But within a few weeks Albert's earnest persuasions won out in placing January 28, 1821, as the date for their wedding.
The day came and the marriage was solemnized. "Are you happy, dearest?" Albert asked of his rosy, smiling bride, when for a moment they were by themselves. Ada answered sweetly?"Happy Albert! I have never believed in what is said of wedding days being the happiest days of all until now." "And my greatest wish," Albert continued, "is that I may always be able to keep you happy, and to make each day and year better and happier than the last." "And my wish is," said Ada, "that I may ever prove the true helpmate you are taking me for." No thought came to those young, joyous souls of the sorrows and heartaches awaiting them in the coming years.
ONE year later their first child was born, and a few weeks after Ada confided to its tiny, unconscious ear the fact that she had not known how much happiness this life can bring to mortals until it had come to nestle in her arms. She and Albert were blest with nine such priceless gifts in all, but not all of them came into such peaceful, pleasant surroundings.
Albert and Ada remained in Fort Ann until 1832, then a change came to them. Albert, returning from a business trip which had taken him some distance from home, brought his wife a book which he believed would interest her as it did him. He told her he had met a minister of the Gospel who had taught the same as Jesus had done when He was on the earth, and told of a young Prophet named Joseph Smith. The minister's name was Sidney Rigdon and the book Albert had purchased of him was the Book of Mormon.
Albert and Ada together studied and embraced the Gospel, were baptized, and with their five children moved to Florence, Ohio, to be near the Saints. From that time on they followed with their chosen people and shared their prosperity and their disappointments, their sufferings and their rejoicings. Other children were born to them in different localities, and some of their precious flock they buried by the way as they were being driven from place to place. Perhaps the most severely trying of these experiences came when their son Paul, a young man, was brutally killed during the persecutions of the Saints in Missouri. But there was no thought of ever turning back with either Albert Clements or his wife. They were united in all that came to them and the great love they held for each other strengthened them for each emergency and every sacrifice.
AFTER the expulsion of the Saints from Missouri, and when with the others the Clements settled for a time in Nauvoo, a son was born to them on November 15, 1842. They named him Albert Nephi for his father and their favorite hero in the Book of Mormon. The parents had each now reached the age of forty-one, and this son was, in a way destined to become the most important, or prominent member of the family. At the time of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith?the Prophet and Patriarch?Albert, like
 
many of the brethren, was away from Nauvoo engaged in labors for the strengthening of the Church and the support of the families. When news reached him of the terrible tragedy at Carthage, which by the death of Joseph took away the earthly head of the Church, as soon as possible he cancelled all engagements, dropped the work he was occupied with and started for Nauvoo, there to face whatever hardships might be in store for him in connection with his beloved people and family.
At a small town one evening while on his journey he met a relative of his mother with whom he had been associated in past years. This gentleman kindly invited Albert to his home to remain over night and the invitation was accepted. He was traveling with a span of good horses, one of which he found in the morning very sick and unable to proceed on the homeward journey. Upon entering a nearby store for medicine with which to treat the disabled animal, Albert was highly delighted at meeting Elder Sidney Rigdon, who was on his way from Pittsburgh to Nauvoo.
SIDNEY and Albert were both exceedingly gratified at meeting each other, and they sought and had a few moments' privacy in which they discussed the great calamity that had befallen their people in the awful death of their beloved Prophet leader. Sidney comforted his quiescent listener by acquainting him with the fact that he himself was hastening to the Saints to take the position awaiting him as their guardian and director in place of the slain Prophet whose loss they mourned. A great burden was thereby lifted from Albert's grief-stricken heart, Although on account of the sick horse, he could not travel on that day, it did not matter so much. President Rigdon would soon be with the crushed and hopeless Saints, would arouse their stunned energies and revive their faith and confidence in the goodness and wisdom of God. And his own family, Albert felt sure, would be all right. His dear, noble Ada would be staunch and brave as she had always been and would keep their children safe and contented. He would be with them again before long to help cheer and comfort them, and all would be well with them and with the Church.
By the exercise of great care and skillful nursing the sick horse was rendered able to travel within a few days. But Albert realized that very gentle treatment and no haste with the horse must still be cautiously observed in order that he might proceed on his way with some degree of safety. Other hindrances were also met with. The mending of a broken wagon wheel caused a delay of several hours. Then came the humane necessity for helping some over-loaded wagons with poor, rundown teams across quite a long stretch of heavy, almost impassable roads. Thus one thing after another transpired to lengthen out the time of Albert's journey until the 15th day of August, 1844, had arrived when he reached Nauvoo.
So excited and over-joyed were his wife and children to have him at home with them again after so long a separation?it seemed to them like years instead of months with all the distressing things which had happened during his absence,?that nothing was talked of or perhaps even thought about but their own family affairs for an hour or more following his reaching home. By that time all the children had turned their attention to other things which
 
interested them, except baby Albert Nephi, who refused to leave his father's arms for any other position.
THEN the husband and wife were alone, save for their baby nearly two years old, they placed their arms around each other and looked into each other's eyes with love and confidence as true and tender, if not so young and impulsive, as that which stirred in their hearts the day on which they were married more than twenty years ago. The baby held between them watched them kiss each other and he slobbered both their faces with his own sweet, baby kisses, patted their cheeks, and played with and mussed their hair, entirely unconscious of the all important sequence contained in their low voiced, earnest conversation.
Dear little Albert N.! Truly he sensed nothing of the weightiness of the following words as they passed between his idolized father and mother.
"Albert, dear!" said the wife, "I should have been the happiest woman in the world, I think, one week ago this morning if you had been with me in the meeting that was held in the Grove at that time."
"Why, dearest? Was the meeting different to or better than others we have attended together?" Albert asked.
"Don't you know about it?haven't you heard?" exclaimed Ada almost incredulously.
"I have heard nothing and know nothing of it?tell me!" Albert answered.
His wife responded?"Well, I have been thinking all along that surely you would be told all about it, and of course you would be feeling relieved and happy over it, the same as myself and most of our people. But if you have not heard then certainly I shall gladly tell you, for all must know about the most marvelous and
 
glorious meeting that the Saints here have ever known anything concerning."
ALBERT was beginning to be enthusiastic and anxious to hear the whole story. Taking the baby's hand from covering his mouth, he asked eagerly?"Was President Rigdon there in his place, and did he take up the reins of government and start the good work speeding on with new force and vigor?"
"Why do you ask a thing like that, Albert?" the woman questioned with a look and in a tone that would indicate she almost felt it sacrilege for her husband to have given utterance to such thoughts. "Yes," she continued, "Sidney Rigdon was at that meeting! But he was no better prepared to take the leadership among our people than this baby of ours is. I have heard him speak in meeting when the Spirit of God was with him and when he propounded principles of truth and righteousness in a way that would be instructive and convincing to honest hearts. But he has changed?he has lost the faith and power he possessed when he stood next to the Prophet and was humble and fearless as the Saints must be to live near the Lord. He was the first speaker in the meeting, and he said he had come to offer himself as a guardian and a leader for the Church! That he was the man appointed by the Lord to be spokesman for Joseph. But he was entirely void of the spirit he formerly manifested. He could scarcely talk at all some of the time. There was nothing of the grand personality of the Prophet to draw the Saints toward Sidney Rigdon, either in his voice or words or looks. He talked for one hour and a half and we became very tired sitting on those hard wooden planks, but in all his discourse there was nothing to lift the cloud of sorrow from our hearts or to arouse our faith and hope to new life."
Ada paused and Albert spoke with undisguised misgivings and said: "You certainly surprise me, Ada! And was that the thrillingly delightful meeting you wish I might have attended?"
"WAIT," Ada answered! "that was only the forepart of the memorable meeting, and that part was exceedingly tedious and unsatisfactory. But as soon as Sidney Rigdon had finished and sat down, Brigham Young arose and?oh, Albert! It was Joseph appeared, with his voice and words as he spoke, which I do so wish you might have seen and heard."
There was silence for a moment. Baby was beginning to nod sleepily. Albert softly laid the little head over on his breast and then said: "Well, Ada, what of it all? Can't you tell me? Was anything decided concerning the future movements of the Church. Who will take the lead?was that fixed?"
"It certainly was, Albert," Ada replied. "That question settled itself, or the Lord settled it. I will tell you how. Sidney talked for a long time, as I said, and offered himself as a guardian for the people. But his speech was delivered in a doubtful, hesitating, even cowardly way, which failed to impress the Saints with any confidence in him or desire to accept his offered guardianship. I believe many must have remembered as I did how Sidney, after being brutally dragged out of bed by drunken mobs, and with the Prophet who was treated the worst of the two?tarred and feathered? said if Joseph Smith's God was going to let him be put through such a course as that, Joseph would have to take it without him for he could FAITH AND FAITHFULNESS TRIUMPHANT not stand such usage. Many of us heard him say that, and also knew that he proved treacherous to the Prophet and the Church because of cowardice, instead of standing like a hero and sharing the Prophet's sufferings even unto death if it had been required. There was nothing about Sidney Rigdon to inspire even common sympathy or respect." Albert arose and carefully placed little Albert N. Asleep on the bed. Then turning to his wife he said, "Ada, dearest, I fear you are greatly prejudiced against President Rigdon. I feel that he has been misjudged and unfairly dealt by."" Ada felt a strange suffocating pain in her chest as she listened to those words from her beloved husband. So many were: weakening?undecided?so much was being said among the false pretenders around them. Leading Albert over to the window she placed her arm affectionately around his waist and his quickly encircled her shoulders. As they looked into each other's faces, she sadly discovered that his features were drawn and troubled, and he saw with great hurt in his heart that she was very pale. Fad me finish telling you of the meeting," Ada said. "The last was the good part of it. When Brigham arose and commenced speaking his face and form immediately assumed the exact appearance of the Prophet Joseph Smith. And he spoke as distinctly in the voice of the Prophet as you ever heard Joseph speak himself. He told the Saints that the keys and power of the leadership of the Church had been sealed upon the quorum of the Twelve Apostles with Brigham Young as their President. This had been done by the Prophet himself by commandment from the Lord. And much more he said, although 255 he took but a short time to say it. The Saints were all converted to the fact that Brigham Young was the right man, with the Twelve, to lead the Church now, and all the congregation voted for that?there was not one hand raised in opposition." Albert was about to speak when one of the girls came to the bedroom door and told her parents that dinner was ready and asked them to come and eat. The family gathered around the table, but there seemed to be something strangely cold and lacking harmony which they could not understand, for there should have been rejoicing in a goodly degree over the safe return home of the husband and father. JUST as the meal was finished a messenger came to the door and beckoned Albert outside. The summons was readily obeyed and for a few moments Albert remained talking with the young man. When he returned his wife asked what was wanted of him. Albert replied, "There is a meeting of some of the brethren this evening, which they would like me to attend. "Is it concerning the finishing of the Temple?" Ada asked with a show of brightening, and she continued, "I have been so in hopes you might be called to that work." "No," answered Albert. "I do not know what the business to be considered is, but the meeting is called by President Rigdon and William Marks." "Surely, Albert, you will not attend it!" his wife exclaimed almost with alarm. "Certainly I shall, Ada!" returned the husband with decision. From that time on differing opinions in relation to their religious views rendered Albert and Ada Clements very unhappy. The most severe trial of their faith came to 256 them from the fact that Albert saw Sidney Rigdon as his leader, while Ada had actually seen the mantle of Joseph Smith fall upon Brigham Young, and knew positively that Brigham was chosen of God to direct the affairs of His Church and people. She knew this great truth by even a stronger evidence than the seeing with her eyes and the hearing with her ears. She knew it by "The testimony of the Lord (which ) is sure, making wise the simple." But with all the power she was able to exert in her husband's interest she could not make him see it, he was so blinded by the influence of crafty men. And although he tried with all the fervor of his soul to induce his wife to see the subject as he viewed it, she had been shown the true light, had accepted it, and was determined to follow whereever it should lead. The Clements were scriptural students and they read and talked over the Savior's sayings found in St. Matthew, chapter 10, verse 37? "He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me: and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me." And Ada remarked that although husband or wife were not mentioned it might be supposed justifiable to include them also in the argument. Then Albert asked, "And will you give me up, Ada, and follow Brigham Young into the wilderness you know not where or what fate may await you, while I shall remain in peace, and have no more of the persecutions and disturbances to which we have been so long subjected?" ADA replied with heroic determination, "I shall continue with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and share its fate, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE even unto death should that be necessary. But I shall never cease to love you, Albert, whether you follow Sidney Rigdon or any other man. And I shall pray for you always that you may be brought to see the truth, even as was Saul of Tarsus! For you are blinded as he was by delusive spirits and the craftiness of unreliable men." Thus they came to the parting of the ways. Ada with her children, who decided to cling to their mother, left Nauvoo among the earliest of the Saints who were driven from their homes there, and moved to Winter Quarters. To his credit Albert was generous in providing as comfortably as he could for the travels of his wife and children, although they were leaving him in sorrow and loneliness. A number of years passed before the way opened for Ada and her children to journey on to the Rocky Mountains. Albert Nephi, the son born in Nauvoo, was a boy nearly ten years and drove his mother's ox team across the plains when the family came in Captain Warren Snow's company, arriving in Great Salt Lake Valley, October 9, 1852. During all the poverty and struggles of the early Mormon Pioneers through which Ada had passed, she never lost faith in the innate goodness and integrity of her husband's heart. Nor did she neglect to mention him in prayer, asking that his heart might be touched with the testimony of the divine mission of Joseph Smith as a true prophet of God, whose life, like that of the Savior, had been sacrificed for the Truth's sake. If only this could happen she knew he would turn from the folly of being misguided by apostate leaders, and through repentance be forgiven of his sins. FAITH AND FAITHFULNESS TRIUMPHANT One day quite a shock came to Ada in the following manner. An Elder who had been commissioned to look after some matters in the affairs of the Church had just returned from a trip East. He called on Ada and told her he had run across her husband in Iowa. Albert, he said, appeared to be in good health and was prospering in a worldly way. 'The surprise came then, which for a short time somewhat bewildered Ada. The Elder informed her that Albert?her husband?had employed and paid him to accompany him to some lawyers who had made out a bill of divorcement, which needed only Ada's signature to make it a legal document dissolving the bond between them which had united them as husband and wife. The plea which Albert had used in the suit was desertion. All there was for Ada to do to make the decree complete was to sign her name to it in the presence of witnesses. Only a brief time she wavered while she considered the question. It would be as well, she decided. The marriage had been only for this life, any way. It had nothing to do with the eternity beyond. So the affair was settled and Ada Clements was a divorced wife. The Elder sent the document to Albert. In 1863 when a young man of twenty-one years, Albert N. Drove an ox team back across the plains as a Church teamster to assist in bringing a company of Saints to Zion, Utah. He found time to visit his father, who was greatly surprised and over-joyed to behold again his youngest son. How delighted that father would have been could he have prevailed on that son to remain with him and share and inherit his worldly possessions. He had been prospered in acquiring means and was well off as far as worldly riches go. He had 257 also married a good and pleasant woman who kept a neat and comfortable home for them, but no child was ever born of their union. The home was in Iowa and the father had joined a branch of what was then known as the Josephite Church. Albert N. Been disposed to remain there with his kindhearted, affectionate father, what a life of ease and pleasure he might have found. Great opportunities might have been his for acquiring knowledge from schools and by interesting travel, instead of passing his days and years in laboring for a living and attending to duties required of him as a member of the Church. But all those alluring prospects held no temptation for the honest-hearted Utah boy. He was glad to see his father and spend a short time with him, and to bear a humble, sincere affirmation to him and his wife that he knew by the testimony with which the Lord had blest him that Joseph Smith was a true Prophet of the Lord, and that Brigham Young was indeed the Prophet's lawful, heaven-appointed successor. Then he wanted to hasten back home to Zion and his loved ones there as soon as he reasonably could, which he did. When Albert N. Reached home and his mother again she was glad to learn that his father had married a good woman. "It is better for him," she commented. "The man is not without the woman, neither the woman without the man in the Lord." The next year, 1864, the Clements moved from Utah into Idaho, and settled at Stockton, a branch of Oxford.. In 1865, having discovered "the finest girl in the world" (for him) Albert N. Married Elizabeth Ann 258 Boyce. His mother, being persuaded that she might do more good in the world as a comfort to others and by being helped herself over some hard places in life by marrying a man named James Steers, consented to the change this brought to her. After a few years Mr. Steers died. Other years passed, and again, for the sake of helping and of being helped Ada was married to a Mr. Wilbur. He also died after a time. No children were born of either of these marriages, nor had Ada consented with either for a Church marriage in the Endowment House, which was then being used temporarily while the Temples were building. Albert N. Went East a' second time to assist in bringing emigrants to the Valleys in 1868. This time he drove a horse team. Again he visited his father, and with him attended one of his Church meetings. On returning home the father asked his son how he enjoyed the services. The son promptly replied, "It was as sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal." He then bore a strong testimony of the truth of the Gospel to his father! He said, "The day will come when you shall see the light! And when that time does come, father, and with your religion goes everything else and you haven't anything, remember you can have a home with me. Just send me word. Here is a purse I wish to give you as a token, and I pray it may ever be full." The years that followed nothing was heard from the father. Albert was in a new part of the country, Idaho, working steadily, and bravely making a livelihood for his young and increasing family. During this period the father's wife died. His means all slipped away from him. The mother twice widRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE owed was now alone, living some distance from her son, Albert N. The mail came into their town twice a week from Corinth. One Friday morning the mail brought Albert N. A letter from his father, telling him his prophecy had been fulfilled?that he was left desolate, and had not sufficient means to come to him; but that he had seen his mistake and wished to come to his people. In the afternoon the mail went out and with it a letter from Albert N., telling his father that on the following Monday he would go out on the mail and send him money for his fare. At that time he only had fifty cents in the house, but the money must come? he knew it would. How he prayed and schemed! Sunday morning came and as yet nothing had been brought to the mind of Albert N. To show him how | he was to obtain the money which he must have. He sat in his front room; the south door was open, letting in a flood of bright sunshine. His heart was lifted in prayer. A stranger horseman rode up to the gate. Without waiting for him to dismount Albert N. Hastened to him and passed the time of day. The following conversation then ensued: Stranger: "Do you know of anvone with a yoke of oxen for sale?" Albert N.: "Oh, yes! I have two of them." Stranger: 'Where are they?" Albert: "In the pasture. Shall I drive them here, or will you go there?" Stranger: with you." All the while from Albert N.'s soul, the prayer was being offered up: "O Father in Heaven, put it into his heart to buy them! For the promise to my father I must keep." When the oxen were rounded up, two fine yoke, the stranger selected "I will jog on down FAITH AND FAITHFULNESS TRIUMPHANT one pair and paid Albert N. $100.00 for them. Next morning Albert N. Was off to Corinth, and borrowing $100.00 more, forwarded the $200.00 to his father. He then made arrangements with Brother David Eccles to meet his father when he should arrive in Corinth, and give him every attention in case he, his son, should not be there himself. Albert Nephi had confided a little scheme to his wife, and she prepared a room for his mother and persuaded her to come and spend a week or two with them?all unconscious of the fact that her "first love," the father of her children was soon coming to them. AT the proper time Albert N. Drove over to Corinth to receive his father and take him home. Brother Eccles met him; his father had just arrived and was resting in the best hotel in town. The charge for his, entertainment Brother Eccles had paid. When the father and son met, there was in that hotel a scene of great rejoicing, although no dry eyes were beholding it. It was a reminder of the memorable meeting of Jacob and Joseph in Egypt, Genesis 46:29. As soon as he was able to speak, the father drew a purse from his pocket and said as he handed it to. Albert N. "Do you remember this, my son? It is yours with all it contains and I am now in your keeping." His fare had been $180.00 and $20.00 remained in the purse. Albert and Ada knew nothing of the meeting planned for them by their son and his wife until it took place in their home. But notwithstanding the long separation and the 259 changes brought to both, there was nothing between them that could not be readily forgiven; a complete and sincere reconciliation immediately followed. Albert was humbly penitent for the mistaken course he had pursued. And his wife and their children, also the Church authorities, were all rejoiced to forgive and to receive him back into the true fold of Christ. Albert Clements and Ada Winchell did their courting all over again. And after awhile, when they were all ready, their faithful, youngest son, Albert Nephi, fixed up his wagon, hitched up his team, and drove with them to the Endowment ? House in Salt Lake City. There they received blessings and promises reserved for the pure in heart who are obedient to the laws of God. And Albert Nephi had the unique privilege of witnessing the marriage of his own father and mother?their true marriage, uniting them for time and all eternity. Before leaving the sacred building, Ada referred to their former marriage so long ago and so far away in Fort Ann, New York? how happy they had been then in each other's love. And she said, "But this day is far more blessed, and our happiness more sure and complete. Is it not so, dear Albert?" Her husband responded tenderly and reverently, "Indeed it is true, my dearest Ada! And this glorious triumph over which we gratefully rejoice today, I humbly and fervently acknowledge is very largely due to your undeviating Faith and Prayers and Faithfulness."