[Vol35 | January 1948 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Happy New Year! General Presidency of Relief Society]
NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
57 
Relief  Society;  Floyd  Griffiths,  Bishop,  Sunset  Ward;  Josephine  Sanders;  Susie  Beattie; 
Marion  H.  Willis;  Louise  H.  Stoddard,  in  charge  of  sewing  and  Welfare  work;  Anne  R. 
Barton,  President,  Sunset  Ward  Relief  Society;  Stake  President  Byron  J.  Barton;  Gladys 
R.  Winter;  Aleda  Horsley. 
The  photograph  shows  only  part  of  the  completed  Welfare  assignment,  which  in- 
cluded 351  articles  of  clothing.  The  beautiful  quilt  of  unusual  design  shown  on  the  right 
was  given,  partly  finished,  to  Louise  Y.  Robison,  beloved  General  President  of  Relief 
Society,  during  an  official  visit  to  Hawaii.  The  quilt  was  completed  by  the  Relief  So- 
ciety women  of  Sunset  Ward.  The  quilt  is  the  only  article  in  the  picture  which  is  not 
part  of  the  Welfare  sewing. 
:;^/ 
Photograph  submitted  by  Alberta  O.  Doxey 
EASTERN  STATES  MISSION,  ELMIRA    (NEW  YORK),  BRANCH 
SEWING  PROJECT 
Left  to  right:  Fredericka  Campbell;  Gladys  Wood;  First  Counselor  Margaret 
Beach;  President  Margaret  Kresge;  Secretary  Grace  Fowler;  missionaries  Delia  Tew  and 
Ruth  Rockwood;  Oliva  Merrick. 
Absent  when  the  photograph  was  taken:  Second  Counselor  Lula  M.  Clark;  Maude 
Barden;  Marian  Thorn;  Jean  Hungcrford. 
Alberta  O.  Doxey,  President,  Eastern  States  Mission  Relief  Society,  reports  that 
this  small  branch  of  eleven  members  has  been  very  active  in  all  phases  of  Relief  Society 
work.  Besides  the  regularly  scheduled  Sunday  evening  program,  the  Relief  Society  took 
charge  of  Father's  Day.  All-day  work  meetings  were  held  during  the  summer,  in  which 
eight  quilts  were  made  and  three  layettes  completed.  In  all,  101  articles  were  made  dur- 
ing the  year.  Many  bake  sales  were  held,  and  the  organization  contributed  several  hun- 
dred dollars  to  the  branch  building  fund.  A  birthday  dinner  has  been  given  for  each 
member  ^ud  each  one  was  presented  with  a  Relief  Society  pin.

LESSON 
DEPARTMENT 
cJheoiog^ — The  Life  and  Ministry  of  the  Savior 
Lesson  7-''Honored  by  Strangers,  Rejected  by  His  Own" 
''Continuation  of  Our  Lord's  Ministry  in  Galilee" 
Elder  Don  B.  Cditon 
(Reference:  /esus  the  Christ,  Chapters  13  and  14,  by  Elder  James  E.  Talmage) 
For  Tuesday,  April  6,  1948 
Objective:    To  prove  that  Jesus  is  no  respecter  of  persons,  but  that  his  blessings  are 
given  to  all  who  have  faith  in  him,  and  who  serve  him. 
TN  order  for  one  to  grasp  fully  the  Jesus    did    not    hesitate    to    go 
great  work  of  our  Lord,  one  must  through  Samaria  on  his  journey  to 
know  something  of  the  conditions  Galilee.     One  incident  of  the  trip 
existing  among  the  people  in  the  is  worthy  of  note.    Jesus,  tired  and 
land  where  he  lived  his  earthly  life,  weary,  rested  for  awhile  at  Jacob's 
Much  good  work  was  done,  both  well,  which  was  held  in  very  high 
by  Jesus  and  his  disciples,  among  the  esteem  by  Jews,  as  well  as  by  tlie 
people  of  Samaria.    The  Samaritans  Samaritans.      This   well   was    near 
were  despised  by  the  Jews,  and,  in  Sychar,  a  town  in  Samaria.  A  Sa- 
time,   this  hatred  became  mutual,  maritan  woman  came  to  fill  her  wa- 
The  inhabitants  of  both    the    pro-  ter-jug  and  Jesus  engaged  her  in  con- 
vince and  city  of  Samaria  were    a  versation.    He  said  to  her:  ''Give  me 
mixed  people.    The  province  lay  be-  to  drink."    A  request  for  water  was 
tween  Judea  and  Galilee.  Assyrians  always  granted  wherever  possible  in 
and  other  heathen  nations  had  in-  all  Oriental  lands.    Surprised  at  be- 
termarried  with  the  Israelites  of  Sa-  ing  spoken  to  by  a  Jew,  she  asked: 
maria,  yet  all  claimed  to  be  descend-  ''How  is  it  that  thou,  being  a  Jew, 
ants  of  Jacob.     Geikie,  in  his  Life  askest  drink  of  me,  which  am  a  wom- 
and  Words  oJt  Christy  says,    "They  an  of  Samaria?  for  the  Jews  have  no 
(the  Samaritans)  became  even  more  dealings  with  the  Samaritans." 
rigidly  attached  to  the  law  of  Moses  Jesus   replied:   "If  thou  knewest 
than   the  Jews   themselves."     The  the  gift  of  God,  and  who  it  is  that 
Jews,  however,  would  not  recognize  saith  to  thee,  Give  me  to  drink;  thou 
these  people.    Some  of  the  practices  wouldest  have  asked  of  him,  and  he 
between  the  two  groups  became  ut-  would  have  given  thee  living  water" 
terly  ridiculous.    Hatred   prevented  (John  4:7-10). 
any  co-operation.  The   woman    failed    to    see    the 
Page  58

A    Perry   Picture 
From    a   Painting  by    Bida  1813-1895 
lESUS  TEACHING  IN  THE  SYNAGOGUE