[Vol35 | January 1948 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Ruby Baird Andersen]
RUBY  BAIRD  ANDERSEN 
Third  Prize  Poem 
of  he    L/oung   vi/ar  v(/iaow  Speaks 
Ruby  Baiid  Andersen 
What  good  is  a  medal  of  oak  leaves 
On  velvet  in  a  case, 
When  the  mind  holds  on  to  pictures 
The  heart  cannot  erase? 
What  good  is  a  gilded  name  plate 
On  the  town's  memorial  plaque 
WTien  your  only  love  has  gone 
And  can  never,  oh,  never  come  back? 
On  the  back-yard  bench  the  spring  sun  Ues 
Where  he  liked  to  sit  making  fishing  iUes. 
No  alchemy  can  work 
In  teeming  word,  or  sun, 
If  the  heart  is  but  a  withered  cone 
And  every  dream  is  done. 
Though  I'm  young  in  numbered  years 
And  should  be  babbling  bold, 
I  know  of  silence  and  long  suffering 
As  do  the  tired  ones  and  the  old.

1(  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1948 
The  plum  hangs  ripe  on  the  green-leafed  limb. 
Just  a  Utile  taJier  than  the  head  of  him. 
Learn,  I  must,  of  many  things, 
And  unlearn  many  more. 
Wliat  is  the  shape^f  memory? 
Is  it  twisted,  pointed,  and  sharp? 
Or  large,  star-shaped,  and  smooth 
Like  the  dulcet  tones  of  the  harp? 
The  sumac  is  red  near  the  canyon's  mouth, 
Three  years  since  he  went  to  camp  in  the  South. 
Seasons  can  return  again. 
New  life  that  is  spring's, 
Exultation  that  belongs  to  Maytime, 
And  fruition  that  August  brings; 
But  blood  and  bone  are  passing. 
And  muscle  cannot  last. 
Passion  palpitates  but  once, 
Life's  momentum  soon  is  past. 
Memory  often  serves  as  bread. 
Or  as  a  drink  from  which  one  sips, 
But  memory  cannot  place  a  kiss 
Fresh  upon  the  lips. 
The  snowUakes  slant  around  the  corner  light— 
There's  a  mound  that's  cold  in  a  ioieign  night. 
Is  it  creeping  centuries. 
Or  only  a  thousand  hours 
That  by  this  casement  window 
I've  climbed  the  night's  blue  towers 
To  find  this  word,  this  answer: 
There's  One  who  understands— 
I  must  lift  my  heart  myself. 
With  a  pair  of  working  hands. 
Ruby  Baird  Andersen,  wife  of  Reuben  Andersen  of  Provo,  Utah,  has  two 
teen-age  daughters  and  is  a  competent  and  charming  homemaker.  An  active 
worker  in  the  auxiliaries  of  the  Church,  she  has  served  as  a  ward  Relief  Society 
president. 
As  a  member  of  the  Provo  Chapter  of  the  League  of  Utah  writers,  Mrs. 
Andersen  has  been  studying  and  writing  poetry  for  several  years.  Her  work 
has  appeared  in  The  Orcgoman,  (Portland,  Oregon),  the  Provo  Daily  HeraJd, 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine,  and  other  pubHcations.  Two  of  her  poems  were 
included  in  the  anthology,  Utah  Sings,  and  one  poem  was  published  in  Our 
Legacy,  the  Relief  Society  Centennial  Anthology  of  Verse. 
On  December  7,  1947,  Ruby  Baird  Andersen  passed  away  after  a  two 
weeks'  illness.  She  had  seen  her  picture  and  her  poem  in  page  proof  the  day 
before  her  death.