[Vol35 | January 1948 | Sequence: 32 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes From the Field: Relief Society Centennial Programs and Other Activities General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering]
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1948 
do,  or  not,  it  was  breaking  Eliza- 
beth's heart.  He  took  an  armload 
of  the  things  and  put  them  in  the 
wagon. 
*  *  *  « 
Philip  W,  Tompkins 
SANDSTONE  TOWER  IN 
COYOTE  CANYON, 
UTAH 
she  put  their  few  clothes  on  top  of 
the  stack,  ready  for  loading. 
"We'll  have  no  room  for  furni- 
ture," she  said,  watching  Henry  as 
his  eyes  went  lingeringly  from  piece 
to  piece  of  the  things  his  hands  had 
made. 
He  shook  his  head  in  perplexity. 
"What  will  the  neighbors  say?"  he 
asked  Elizabeth.  "This  is  a  silly 
thing  to  do." 
"Start  loading,  Henry,"  was  all 
Elizabeth  could  say.  She  placed  a 
crocheted  doily  exactly  in  the  center 
of  the  hewn-log  table,  and  put  a  vase 
of  wild  flowers  exactly  in  the  center 
of  the  doily.  She  stood  back  and 
surveyed  the  entire  poorly  furnished 
room.  "I  never  thought  it  was  pret- 
ty before,"  she  confessed,  and  wiped 
the  mist  from  her  eyes.  "It's  time 
to  wake  the  children,  Henry." 
Henry  looked  at  her  pityingly. 
Whether  this  was  a  foolish  thing  to 
ITIGHER  and  higher  the  "Devil 
Ditch"  rose.  Old  banks  caved 
into  the  boiling,  half-mile  wide  river, 
to  be  followed  in  turn  by  the  new 
banks.  The  floors  of  houses  floated 
like  rafts  on  the  gray,  tossing  waters 
of  the  river.  On  one  of  these  was  a 
rocking  chair,  swinging  madly  back 
and  forth,  its  cushions  gay  and  dry, 
for  the  house  had  been  lifted,  land 
and  all,  and  carried  away.  Chunk 
by  chunk,  the  earth  had  loosened 
and  tumbled  into  the  swirling  wat- 
er, leaving  the  floor  to  float  down- 
stream. The  roof  and  wall  logs  had 
one  by  one  toppled  off,  in  the  bad 
bouncing  of  the  floor,  till  only  the 
rocking  chair  remained. 
Houses,  furniture,  haystacks,  wag- 
ons—everything that  goes  to  make  a 
home— careened  by,  jamming  the 
river  with  debris.  The  Montezuma 
water  wheel  went  out.  The  dam 
buckled  and  shivered.  It  held  the 
wall  of  water  for  one  defiant  second, 
and  then  loosened  and  tossed  the 
floating  water  wheel  into  the  air,  re- 
ceived it  as  it  fell,  and  then  flat- 
tened out,  just  another  broken  mass 
of  trees  and  rocks  and  logs.  Hens 
squawked  in  floating  chicken  coops; 
dogs  and  cats  tried  to  climb  to  the 
tops  of  the  houses,  screeching  in 
terror. 
From  vantage  points  of  safety,  the 
hapless  settlers  watched  their  last 
remaining  possessions  go  by.  For 
thirty  miles  up  the  river  where  the 
cloudburst  had  started,  not  a  house 
was  left  standing.  At  Montezuma, 
only  two  houses  remained,  those  of 
James  Davis  and  Thales  Haskell.

WHERE  TRAILS  RUN  OUT 
45 
There  was  a  half  hour  of  tense  ex- 
citement when  it  was  discovered  that 
the  Allen  family  was  not  among  the 
rescued  ones  who  starkly  watched 
the  ravage  of  their  lands. 
''Sister  Allen  is  missing!"  Ted 
Davis  cried.  "I  saw  her  son  Bob 
up  at  the  fort,  trying  to  pacify  the 
Indians." 
''And  Brother  Allen  is  in  Fruit- 
land,  New  Mexico!"  James  Davis  ex- 
claimed. "The  family  will  be  sur- 
rounded! Get  help,  Ted,  and  follow 
me!" 
"There's  no  time  to  lose.  Pa!"  Ted 
cried.    "I'd  better  come  with  you!" 
"That  may  be  so,"  James  agreed, 
jumping  on  his  horse,  and  riding  at 
top  speed  toward  the  Allen  ranch. 
Ted  followed  him,  keeping  his  eyes 
open  for  any  men  who  might  be  able 
to  go  along  to  help,  but  he  saw  no 
one  who  was  not  already  fully  oc- 
cupied with  his  own  problems. 
"Thank  goodness  their  house  is 
on  a  small  mound,"  James  shouted, 
as  they  raced  along. 
"Yes,  but  there's  a  swale  on  three 
sides  of  it!"  Ted  reminded  his  fa- 
ther. "It  will  be  completely  flooded. 
Pa." 
And  it  was.  The  little  house,  up 
to  the  window  sills  in  water,  looked 
forlorn  and  dejected.  Two  of  the 
girls,  Annie  and  Lizzie,  were  floun- 
dering in  water  up  to  tiieir  arm-pits, 
trying  to  rescue  flieir  chickens  and 
a  pig. 
"Mother's  inside,"  Annie  shouted. 
"The  water  is  covering  everything!" 
TAMES  and  Ted  swung  from  their 
^  saddles  and  opened  the  door. 
There  stood  Mrs.  Allen,  holding  her 
two  young  children  out  of  the  wat- 
er. She  had  put  the  chairs  on  the 
bed  and  the  children  on  the  chairs. 
She  was  thoroughly  frightened,  alone 
and  helpless. 
"Oh,  Brother  Davis,"  she  cried, 
"I'm  thankful  that  you  have  come! 
How  are  we  going  to  keep  from 
drowning?" 
"We'll  get  you  out  somehow. 
Aunt  Jane,"  Ted  Davis  assured  her. 
"But  I  don't  know  how!" 
The  water  was  rising  rapidly.  The 
chairs  on  top  of  the  bed  were  almost 
covered. 
"We've  got  to  get  out  of  the 
house,"  James  said.  "But  where  to 
go,  is  the  next  thing.  We  can't  all 
six  of  us  ride  our  two  horses  out, 
and  there's  not  time  enough  to 
make  two  trips!" 
"I  know,  Pa!"  Ted  cried.  He  had 
been  looking  around  for  something 
that  would  solve  the  problem  for 
them.  "There's  the  molasses  boiler. 
We  could  use  it  as  a  boat!" 
Philip  W.  Tompkins 
ARCH  IN  ROCK  CREEK 
CANYON 
Southeastern   Utah

46  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY   1948 
''But  then  how  would  we  get  it  After  much  persuasion,  Mrs.  Allen 
to  dry  land,  Ted?    Our  horses  can't  waded  out  to  the  boat  and  was  lifted 
carry  us  and  pull  the  boiler,   too,  in.    The  girls  laughed  and  shouted 
for  they'll  have  to  swim  out/'  encouragement   to  the  horses,  and 
Ted  scratched  his  head  in  puzzle-  the  ride  to  safety  began.    But  it  was 
ment.    ''Gosh,  Pa,  it  looks  like  I'll  not  all  funny.    There  were  unnerv- 
have  to  go  for  help."  ing  moments  when  the  swimming 
There  was  a  splashing  in  the  wat-  team,  whipped  around  by  the  bob- 
er  in  the  yard,  and  shouts  from  the  bing  boiler,  prodded  by  broken  logs 
two  girls  who  were  trying  to  save  and  furniture,  all  but  went  under. 
the  chickens.  There  was  a  sigh  of  relief  when  at 
"It's    our   father!"    Lizzie    cried,  last  the  team  found  solid   footing 
"He's  come  home!"  and  began  clambering  ashore. 
James  turned  in  time  to  see  Broth-  *  *  #  « 
er  Allen  leaping  from  his    saddle,  lyjARY  Davis  watched  block  after 
anxious  for  the  safety  of  his  family.  block  of  their  land  sink  into 
"We  were  planning  to   use  the  the     river.       "My     orchard!"     she 
molasses  boiler  for  a  boat,"  Ted  ex-  screamed.    "James!    Ted!" 
plained.    "How  can  we  pull  it  out?"  And  then  she  remembered  where 
"My  team  is  up   on    top  of  the  James  and  Ted  were.     "I  can't  let 
ridge,"  Brother  Allen  replied  quick-  my  new  peach  trees  go!"  she  cried, 
ly.  "I  borrowed  this  horse,  so  I  could  running  from  the  knoll  where  the 
get  here  faster.    My  son  is  driving  house  stood,  down  to    the    river's 
them  on.    He'll  be  here  any  min-  edge,  where  the  trees  had  been  plan t- 
ute."  ed  for  moisture.     Three  years  she 
"There  goes    our  lovely  painted  had  watched  them  grow— from  pit 
water  wheel!"    Annie  Allen  wailed,  to    yard-high    trees.      The    "Devil 
"And  our  orchard  is  almost  gone,  Ditch"  was  not  going  to  get  them 
Father!"     Lizzie   cried.     "All   our  now! 
good  fruit  will  be  spoiled!"  The  river  had  already  begun  to 
"There's  no  time  to  worry  about  cut  under  the  bank  where  the  trees 
water  wheels  and  peaches!"  Brother  were  planted.   The  roar  of  water  was 
Allen  cried.    "We've  got  to  get  out  in  her  ears;  the  land  trembled  under 
of  here!"  her  feet.    A  crack  had  begun  to  en- 
The  team  was  hitched  to  the  mo-  circle  the  tiny  orchard,  widening  by 
lasses  boiler,  and  the  four  children  the  minute.    Mary  jumped  the  crack, 
were  put  inside  of  it.  Being  about  and  began  pulling  her  precious  trees 
four  feet  wide  and  six  or  seven  feet  up  by  the  roots.     She  had  five  of 
long,  it  made  a  sizable  boat,  but  it  them  in  her  arms,  when  there  was  a 
rocked  perilously.  slipping  of  the  ground  on  which  she 
"I'll  never  ride  in  a  contraption  stood.    She  looked  back  to  the  main- 
like that!"  Mrs.  Allen  cried.  "We'd  land  in  horror.    The  crack  was  a  foot 
tip  over  and  get  all  wet!"  wide!    She  was  on   an  island   that 
Ted  Davis  chuckled.    Already  as  was  going  to  start  down  the  river  in 
wet  as  the  chickens  that  had  given  one  more  minute!    "But  I'll  have  my 
up    and   floated    downstream,    the  trees!"  she  decided  grimly,  and  jerked 
family  was  in  a  laughable  plight.  the  last  four  of  tliem  up.    With  the