[Vol35 | January 1948 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

Martinez was not present when this photograph was taken. All the members of this branch contributed to the building fund. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1888 FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE Women OF ZION AND THE RITHS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS.” APOSTROPHE (To the liberated spirit of Zion's late Prophetess and Poetess Eliza R. Snow Smith) Holiness, akin to beauty, Stamped thee with a marvelous seal; Powerful was thy sense of duty, Irrepressible thy zeal; Counselor, so true, so able; Ready to relieve distress; The afflicted and the tempted 'Twas thy ministry to bless. — Emily H,  —Emily Woodmansee LETTEr from Ohio: LETTER FROM OHIO: I was told the other day by an acquaintance, that my "Mormon friend, Eliza Snow, is dead," and he said that notices of her death were in all the Cincinnati papers. I did not see the notices, but I felt very much saddened to hear of it. One's life is made up of regrets, at least my life is. I shall always regret that I never had a fuller acquaintance with "Sister Eliza" as you all so lovingly call her. She |was a noble, a wonderful woman, it seemed to me, and I shall now always think of her alias being in heaven with the many who were "first at the sepulcher," and as always busy ] and happy. ... I wonder what the future of the peculiar people will be. . . .
There is work in church and moral movements for women now. God grant that we may all do our work faithfully. — Emily Scott THE OLD YEAR'S BLESSINGS I am fading from you, But one draweth near, Called the angel guardian > Of the coming year; I brought joy to brighten Many happy days; Let the New Year's angel Turn them into praise. —Adelaide A. Proctor EDITORIAL NOTE: Jack, the Fisherman, by Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, is a pa-thetic story of the net woven by the demon alcohol to entrap the unwary. The tale is told with a depth of pity and tenderness that should waken a responsive chord in the .heart of every person to work for the rescue of precious souls from the horrors of in-temperance.— Emmeline B. Wells FROM SAN JUAN STAKE: The quarterly conference of the Relief Society was held at Bluff, December 4, 1887, with President Jane M.
Walton presiding. She re-ported that there was a good feeling among the sisters. . . .said they had money to buy grain, and hoped that sometime they would have a place to put it in. Sister Martha Hammond said the' sisters of the Mancos Ward were storing up grain and felt that the brethren were sustaining them. Sister H.