[Vol35 | January 1948 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Sewing Jennings]

See pages 24 and 25 for "Relief Society Building News" —— Work Meeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 6—Fitted Facings Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, March 9, 1948
Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter VIII, pp. 65-69; XV, 105, 106; XX, 134, 135. ONE of the very useful techniques which has numerous possibilities is that of applying fitted facings. The uses for this finish are almost unlimited. Wherever we find an edge with a curve, a point, or an unusual shape, it is most easily finished with a fitted facing. Although binding, cording, piping, etc., are frequently employed as methods of decorating and completing _ necks, sleeves, and various other parts of garments, when a plain, inconspicuous, and practical finish is called for, we resort to the fitted facing. As a general rule, commercial patterns include, with the other pieces, pattern sections by which to cut facings for edges of a garment requiring them. But, in some instances, they are omitted and the user is instructed to cut a bias strip an inch or two in width and employ it as a facing. This method is frequently troublesome, especially if the edge to be faced is curved or shaped. In these cases it is difficult to obtain a flat and smooth look. For curved or square neck lines; for edges with a series of scallops, points, or squares; for shaped sleeve edges; for collars, lapels, or pocket flaps, try using fitted facings. It is not necessary to always have 
 —JANUARY 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT a pattern for cutting fitted facings. The edge of the garment itself can serve as a pattern. Care must be taken to cut the facing in the same shape and size as the edge to be finished, having the grain of the material run in the same direction in both the garment and the facing. If there are seams to be joined, such as at the shoulders of a neck facing, they must be sewed and pressed open and flat, as the first step. Next, the edge of the facing is placed on top the edge of the garment, the two right sides together, basted in place, and then stitched on the sewing machine, with an even seam allowance all around. At this point, edges with an inside curve must be snipped at frequent 65 intervals so that the facing will not pucker at the edge when it is turned inside. For the same reason we must also snip into the points between scallops and into squared corners to the line of machine stitching. On outside curves, such as scallops or rounded collars and lapels, notches should be cut out at frequent intervals to avoid too much bulk when the facing is turned. The excess seam must be cut off in the points of collars, cuffs, lapels, etc. The raw edge of the facing is usually finished off by turning under once, stitching it on the sewing machine, or with a small running hand stitching, close to the fold, and then tacking it lightly to the body of the garment. of the Doctrine and Covenants Elder H. Wayne Driggs Lesson 7—Doctrinal Exposition of the Doctrine and Covenants For Tuesday, April 20, 1948
Objective: To appreciate the Doctrine and Covenants as literature through a discussion of the wisdom contained in modern scripture. THE most frequent type of writing found in the Doctrine and Covenants is that of doctrinal exposition and instruction.
This is not strange, either, when one considers the state of affairs the world was in at the time of Joseph Smith's first vision. So snarled were the concepts of men regarding the way of life that churches had sprung up on the slightest pretext of doctrine. To a youth of questioning mind, such as Joseph, there could be no satisfaction in the evasive turns of reason propounded by the ministers of his day.
Small wonder, then, that there was much need for inspired instruction through a latter-day prophet, if the simple truths of the gospel were again to be understood. As suggested in the title of this modern scripture, the Lord's doctrines and covenants have come to earth again in renewed ways.
These throw additional light upon the Priesthood, the Organization, the ordinances and commandments of his Church, and point the way his saints must go to find salvation. The Lord has spoken to us in this day in the language which we can understand.