[Vol35 | January 1948 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Three-Part Story Windy]

THREE INCHES 'N DIAMETER STITCHES ¥% INCH ty FROMTHE EDGE FOR MAKING RUFFLES i OF SECOND CIRCLE Sinai ne sew from the outside in. Continue adding the panels until all are joined. Then complete the circle by joining the last panel to the first. Fold each seam from right to left and top stitch on the wrong side only, just missing the first sewing. This strengthens the seams and prevents breaking of the stitches. (See Diagram C.) When all of the panels are sewed together, the opening at the top should measure ½ inch in diameter. Do not press at any time except when waterproofing.
Fastening the Cover to the Frame
Cut two circles of material, each three inches in diameter, and cut a ½-inch hole in the center of each. (See Diagram D.) Place one of these circles on the top of the umbrella frame.
Place the cover on the frame over the top of the small circle. Pin the corners of the cover to the frame by turning back onto the wrong side the corners of the joined panels ¾ inch and placing a sharp pin through the folded material and the holes in the top of the frame. This holds the cover in place. Continue until all the panels are pinned. Then hand stitch the points of the panels to the tips of the umbrella spokes, in the same manner as the old cover was attached to the frame. (See Diagram E.)
Run a strong double thread around the top of the cover ½ inch from the edge and fasten to the top spoke, hand drawing in any slight fullness which may still be in the heavy fabric around the top of the frame toward the center of the securely.
Stitch the underside of the cover to the frame where and how it was stitched before. These stitchings vary with the style and shape of the umbrella.
Take the second stitch circle which you have already cut out (Diagram D) and make a row of running stitches around the outside, ½ inch from the edge, and draw the circle up until it is only ½ inch in diameter, forming a double ruffle. Place this over the cover on the tip of the frame and fasten securely.
Completing the Process
Furl the umbrella tip, or the substitute frame, being sure to get all the raw edges under the tip. Leave the umbrella closed until the glue dries, about twenty-four hours.
Make the braid for holding the spokes together from a scrap of the material, the same size as the old one, using it as a pattern for turning, or, if they are lost, use a snap fastener or their place. Sew the band to one of the spokes on the outside and sew the snap to the band.
When all the steps of the process are completed and the glue in the cap is thoroughly dry, open the umbrella and spray it with a fine spray of cold water from the hose or from the shower. This will shrink any slight fullness which may still be in the cover. Leave the umbrella open while it is drying.
How to Clean an Umbrella
An umbrella may be washed in cold, mild soapsuds. Use a soft brush to remove any spots. Rinse well with cold water. Leave the umbrella open until it is dry.
Three-Part Story to Begin in February
THE first installment of a three-part story "Windy Hilltop" by Ezra J. Poulsen, will begin in the February issue of The Relief Society Magazine. In this story of courage and conflict, the characters are vividly presented in their reaction to a problem of divergent loyalties. The dramatic situations are portrayed against the colorful background of western ranch life.
Mr. Poulsen, a native of Idaho, now residing in Salt Lake City, is well known as a contributor to both local and national publications. He is the author of two collections of verse, Songs for the Toilers and Poems in Varied Keys, and has compiled two anthologies of verse for publication. Readers of The Relief Society Magazine will remember with pleasure the poems and prose which Mr. Poulsen has contributed over a period of many years. His three-part story "The Rock and the River" appeared in the Magazine in 1944.