[Vol35 | January 1948 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Article | Title: My Wealth Julia Nelson]
THREE  MEXICAN  DISHES 
49 
For  this  dish,  get  your  butcher  to  cut 
your  pork  into  small  cubes.  A  cheaper 
cut,  with  bones,  may  be  used,  but  I  prefer 
the  tenderloin,  with  as  little  fat  as  possible. 
Brown  the  meat  in  a  heavy  saucepan  and 
remove  excess  fat.  Then,  for  twenty  or 
thirty  minutes,  simmer  the  browned  meat 
in  a  very  little  water.  Add  to  it  the  fresh- 
ly cut  zucchini,  and  the  corn.  Fresh  corn 
is  to  be  had  every  day  in  Mexico.  You 
can  be  adaptable  and  use  frozen  or  canned 
corn,  though  the  taste  is  not  the  same. 
Add  to  the  squash  and  corn  mixture  a 
few  strips  of  chili  pepper.  The  proper  pep- 
per for  this  is  the  large,  green,  shiny  one 
with  a  tapering  end.  It  is  definitely  hot 
and  must  be  prepared.  This  is  done  by 
holding  the  pepper  (with  a  fork)  over  a 
gas  flame  until  the  skin  crackles  and  bub- 
bles.  Next,  with  the  fingers,  remove  the 
thin  skin  while  the  pepper  is  still  warm. 
Then  cut  out  the  veins — an  inside  job — 
and  cut  the  pepper  into  strips.  Add  the 
strips,  according  to  your  judgment,  to  the 
mixture,  with  salt  to  taste.  Cover  and 
cook  over  a  low  flame  until  the  vegetables 
are  tender,  no  longer.     Stir  the  dish  oc- 
casionally.     If  you   are  careful,   you  will 
need  no  extra  water. 
This  is  not  a  hot  dish,  yet  it  has  zest. 
TORTILLAS  WITH  CHEESE 
My  favorite  of  all  Mexican  food  is 
la  toitilh  con  queso.  It  is  as  simple  as  its 
name  to  fix,  but  possible  only  where  tor- 
tillas (thin  pancakes  made  of  corn  meal), 
are  to  be  had.  There  is  no  substitute  for 
tortillas. 
Take  freshly  made  tortillas,  sprinkle 
them  lightly  with  salt,  and  place  on  each 
a  generous  helping  of  freshly  grated  (on  the 
coarse  grater)  American  cheese.  Fold  the 
tortillas  and  secure  them  with  a  toothpick. 
Then  heat  until  the  cheese  is  hot  and 
drippy.  The  best  way  to  heat  them  is  the 
Mexican  way — tortillas  placed  on  a  metal 
sheet  or  griddle  over  a  low  flame.  The 
tortillas  may  be  heated  in  the  oven,  but 
care  must  be  taken  not  to  dry  them.  An 
electric,  portable  oven  is  also  good  for 
party  amounts.  They  should  be  eaten  at 
once.  By  themselves  they  are  delectable. 
Serve  them  with  a  tossed  green  salad  or 
sliced  tomatoes.     There's  nothing  better. 
CAUGHT  NAPPING 
Julia  Nelson 
I  found  my  kitchen  sleeping 
Last  night;  it  lay  so  still  .  .  . 
And  moonlight  poured  a  silver  flood 
On  every  window  sill. 
The  bubble-throated  kettle 
Was  silent;  stretching  out,   . 
In  ruffled  sweet  abandon. 
White  curtains  tossed  about. 
The  tall  red  stool  stood  on  one  leg, 
A  cup  was  out  of  place; 
And  as  I  watched,  a  soft  smile  spread 
Across  my  kitchen's  face.

FROM  THE  FIELD 
Margaret  C.  Pickeiing,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
Regulations  governing  the  submittal  of  material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  appear 
in  the  Magazine  for  October  1946,  page  685. 
CENTENNIAL  PROGRAMS  AND  OTHER  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Ethel  M.  Beckstrand 
PALO  ALTO  STAKE  (CALIFORNIA),  RELIEF  SOCIETY  PRESIDENCY  AT 
CENTENNIAL  MUSICAL  AND  FASHION  SHOW,  May  23,  1947 
Left  to  right:  Leah  D.  Kartchner,  First  Counselor;  Leila  Gates,  President;  Ethel 
M.  Beckstead,  Second  Counselor;  Iva  Minard,  Secretary-Treasurer. 
At  the  closing  of  the  Relief  Society  season,  the  seven  wards  and  branches  of  Palo 
Alto  Stake  met  for  an  enjoyable  evening  of  varied  entertainment.  A  lovely  musical 
opened  the  program  and  a  fashion  show  followed.  Fifty-five  dresses,  suits,  and  coats, 
all  made  by  Relief  Society  members,  were  modeled.  Many  beautiful  handmade  gloves, 
hats,  and  bags,  were  featured  as  costume  accessories.  There  were  many  interesting  and 
beautiful  displays  of  handicraft,  pioneer  heirlooms,  and  literature  which  had  been  used 
in  the  lesson  work  during  the  year.    Nearly  250  members  and  their  partners  attended. 
Page  50

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
51 
OGDEN  STAKE  (UTAH),  HUNTS VILLE  WARD,  SEWING  PRIZES  WON 
AT  UTAH  CENTENNIAL  EXPOSITION  OF  FINE  ARTS 
Brother  Arvel  W.  Dean,  Coordinator,  Northern  Utah  Region,  Church  Welfare 
Plan,  reports  that  the  members  of  the  Huntsville  Ward  Relief  Society  received  several 
outstanding  awards  at  the  Utah  Centenr^ial  Exposition  of  Fine  Arts.  The  articles,  which 
had  been  made  as  part  of  the  Welfare  assignment,  were: 
Pair  of  mittens — First  Prize 
Pair  of  mittens — Second  Prize 
Handmade  rug — First  Prize 
Silk  quilt — Third  Prize 
Crocheted  Rug — Second  Prize 
Brother  Dean  comments:  "This  speaks  very  highly  of  the  type  of  work  which  the 
Huntsville  Ward  Relief  Society  sisters  are  doing  at  their  work  meetings  for  the  Welfare 
Program.  We  wish  to  compliment  them  for  turning  out  such  outstanding  work." 
Cleona  W.  Hedenstrom  is  president  of  Ogden  Stake  Relief  Society. 
Photograph  submitted  by  Helen  Erwin 
EAST  CENTRAL  STATES  MISSION,   HUNTINGTON  (WEST  VIRGINIA), 
PAGEANT,  "MOTHERS  OF  LONG  AGO,"  PRESENTED  IN  HONOR  OF 
MOTHER'S  DAY,  May  ii,  1947 
Candle  bearers,  left  to  right:  Gracelee  Wroten;  Barbara  Williams;  Vera  Young; 
Gloria  Young;  Eleanor  Johnson.  Mothers  of  long  ago,  left  to  right:  Helen  Erwin;  Elva 
Sharp;  Maggie  Sharp;  Mayme  Johnson;  Ona  Schroath;  Maud  Rice.  Mothers  of  today: 
Stella  Wood;  Martha  Carico;  Margaret  Anderson;  Erma  Mills.  Seated  at  right,  Spirit 
of  Youth,  Margie  Rice;  seated  at  desk,  Kines  Bexfield. 
Hilda  M.  Richards  is  president  of  East  Central  States  Mission  Relief  Society.