[Vol35 | January 1948 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature: Doctrinal Exposition of the Doctrine and Covenants Elder H. Wayne Driggs]
JLiteratare — Literature  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Eldei  H.  Wayne  Diiggs 
Lesson  7-Doctrinal  Exposition  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
For  Tuesday,  April  20,  k 
Objective:    To  appreciate  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  as  literature  through  a  dis- 
cussion of  the  wisdom  contained  in  modem  scripture. 
nPHE  most  frequent  type  of  writ-  tion  in  the  evasive  turns  of  reason 
ing  found  in  the  Doctrine  and  propounded  by  the  ministers  of  his 
Covenants  is  tliat  of  doctrinal  ex-  day.  Small  wonder,  then,  that  there 
position  and  instruction.  This  is  was  much  need  for  inspired  instnic- 
not  strange,  either,  when  one  con-  tion  through  a  latter-day  prophet,  if 
siders  the  state  of  affairs  the  world  the  simple  truths  of  the  gospel  were 
was  in  at  the  time  of  Joseph  Smith's  again  to  be  understood, 
first  vision.  So  snarled  were  the  con-  As  suggested  in  the  title  of  this 
cepts  of  men  regarding  the  way  of  modern  scripture,  the  Lord's  doc- 
life  that  churches  had  sprung  up  on  trincs  and  covenants  have  come  to 
the  slightest  pretext  of  doctrine.  To  earth  again  in  renewed  ways.  These 
a  youth  of  questioning  mind,  such  as  throw  additional  light  upon  the 
Joseph,  there  could  be  no  satisfac-  Priesthood,    the   organization,    the

ee 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1948 
ordinances  and  commandments  of 
his  Church,  and  point  the  way  his 
saints  must  go  to  find  salvation. 
The  Lord  has  spoken  to  us  in  this 
day  in  the  language  which  we  can 
understand.  Note  the  following 
passages: 
Treasure  up  in  your  minds  continually 
the  words  of  life  (84:85). 
For  my  soul  delighteth  in  the  song  of  the 
heart;  yea,  the  song  of  the  righteous  is  a 
prayer"  unto  me,  and  it  shall  be  answered 
with  a  blessing  upon  their  heads  (25:12). 
Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously 
engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do  many 
things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to 
pass  much  righteousness;  for  the  power  is 
in  them,  wherein  they  are  agents  unto 
themselves.  And  inasmuch  as  men  do  good 
they  shall  in  no  wise  lose  their  reward 
(58:27-28). 
For  this  is  a  day  of  warning,  and  not  a 
day  of  many  words.  For  I,  the  Lord,  am 
not  to  be  mocked  in  the  last  days  (63:58) . 
Behold,  now  it  is  called  today  until  the 
coming  of  the  Son  of  Man,  and  verily  it  is 
a  day  of  sacrifice,  and  a  day  for  the  tithing 
of  my  people;  for  he  that  is  tithed  shall 
not  be  burned  at  his  coming  (64:23). 
I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do 
what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not  what  I  say, 
ye  have  no  promise  (82:10). 
Yea,  seek  ye  out  of  the  best  books  words 
of  wisdom;  seek  learning,  even  by  study 
and  also  by  faith  (88:118). 
Cease  to  be  idle;  cease  to  be  unclean; 
cease  to  find  fault  one  with  another;  cease 
to  sleep  longer  than  is  needful;  retire  to 
thy  bed  early,  that  ye  may  not  be  weary; 
arise  early,  that  your  bodies  and  your  minds 
maybe  invigorated  (88:124). 
And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep 
and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in  obedience 
to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health 
in  their  navel  and  marrow  to  their  bones; 
And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures 
of  knowledge,  even  hidden  treasures;  and 
shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk 
and  not  faint.    And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto 
them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel 
shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel, 
and  not  slay  them.  Amen  (89:18-21).   - 
For  man  is  spirit.  The  elements  are 
eternal,  and  spirit  and  element,  inseparably 
connected,  receive  a  fulness  of  joy;  And 
when  separated,  man  cannot  receive  a  ful- 
ness of  joy.  The  elements  are  the  taber- 
nacle of  God;  yea,  man  is  the  tabernacle  of 
God,  even  temples;  and  whatsoever  temple 
is  defiled,  God  shall  destroy  that  temple. 
The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,  or,  in 
other  words,  light  and  truth  (93:33-36). 
Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  when 
I  give  a  commandment  to  any  of  the  sons 
of  men  to  do  a  work  unto  my  name,  and 
those  sons  of  men  go  with  all  their  might 
and  with  all  they  have  to  perform  that 
work,  and  cease  not  their  diligence,  and 
their  enemies  come  upon  them  and  hinder 
them  from  performing  that  work,  behold, 
it  behooveth  me  to  require  that  work  no 
more  at  the  hands  of  those  sons  of  men, 
but  to  accept  of  their  offerings.  And  the 
iniquity  and  transgression  of  my  holy  laws 
and  commandments  I  will  visit  upon  the 
heads  of  those  who  hindered  my  work,  un- 
to the  third  and  fourth  generation,  so  long 
as  they  repent  not,  and  hate  me,  saith  the 
Lord  God  (124:49,  50). 
It  is  impossible  for  a  man  to  be  saved 
in  ignorance  (131:6). 
Here  is  writing  with  the  inspira- 
tion of  divinity. 
Activities  and  Readings 
ioT  Appreciation 
The  discussion  for  this  class  pe- 
riod may  well  be  spent  in  reading  a 
number  of  sections  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  which  bring  added 
light  to  the  gospel.  For  example,  in 
the  93  section,  the  Lord  defines 
the  relationship  between  himself  and 
the  Father,  in  the  following  verses 
Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord:  It  shall  come 
to  pass  that  every  soul  who  forsaketh  his 
sins  and  cometh  unto  me,  and  calleth  on 
my  name,  and  obeyeth  my  voice,  and  keep-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
67 
eth  my  commandments,  shall  see  my  face 
and  know  that  I  am:  and  that  I  am  the 
true  light  that  lighteth  every  man  that 
Cometh  into  the  world,  and  that  I  am  in 
the  Father,  and  the  Father  in  me,  and  the 
Father  and  I  are  one — the  Father  because 
he  gave  me  of  his  fulness,  and  the  Son  be- 
cause I  was  in  the  world  and  made  flesh 
my  tabernacle,  and  dwelt  among  the  sons 
of  men.  I  was  in  the  world,  and  received 
of  my  Father,  and  the  works  of  him  were 
plainly  manifest. 
This  section  93  also  deals  with  the 
record  of  John,  the  apostle  and  rev- 
elator,  Jesus  Christ,  the  Firstborn, 
the  place  of  man  in  the  beginning 
with  God,  the  eternal  nature  of  the 
elements,  and  the  glory  of  God.  It  is 
the  direct  and  forceful  manner  of 
this  inspired  scripture  that  appeals. 
Call  upon  the  class  to  read  carefully 
each  part  of  this  section  outlining 
the  above  doctrines  and  note  for  dis- 
cussion the  clarity  of  language  and 
style  of  expression.  Single  out  those 
passages  which  are  best  remembered. 
Additional  sections  for  similar  discus- 
sions may  be  found  under  the  numbers  27, 
29,  84,  88,  107.  There  are  others  which 
may  be  suggested  by  the  class.  Be  ready  to 
read  and  discuss  a  favorite  passage  of  in- 
struction you  have  loved  from  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.