Counselor Julia Alleman Child
Julia Alleman Child is a descendant of the early makers of Latter-day Saint history. The witnesses of the Book of Mormon must always stand out conspicuously among those who made the early history of the Church. Mrs. Child's great grandmother, whom she remembers, was a sister of Martin Harris. The Harris family has produced a number of outstanding men and women, and among these is Julia Alleman Child. Many people recognize in her character a delightful balance, an all-roundedness, a clear headedness that is both useful and admirable; just the type of person one might be led to select for a counselor. She has good judgment and a heart as well as a mind that penetrates into human affairs so that people naturally draw near her because she understands.
Mrs. Child has devoted much of her life to education. Her husband is superintendent of the Salt Lake City schools, so that matters of an educational nature are often referred to her. We are sure that many of our readers will recall that on a number of occasions Sister Child has made outstanding addresses before the conference on educational subjects. Her addresses are noted for the splendid material that she assembles, and the clear, effective way in which she puts over that material.
There is no substitute in life's work for common sense or loyalty. Sister Child possesses both these characteristics in large measure. She is loyal to her Church, loyal to the Relief Society, and will be loyal to President Louise Y. Robison, to whom she has been called to act as second counselor.
There is another attribute necessary for success in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and that is faith in the divinity of the latter-day work, faith in God and in Jesus Christ as the Savior of the world and the Redeemer of mankind. Sister Child had training in her adolescent years under that great master teacher, Karl G. Maeser, who daily emphasized the spiritual values of life above all others. She has shown in her conduct throughout her life that she did not come into contact with the great master without avail.
She is a woman of unusual charm. Her dark eyes beam with intelligence and her countenance lights up as thoughts and emotions play upon her face. She is kind and sympathetic in her attitude towards all with whom she comes in contact. She is one whose spirit would tend to bring order out of chaos, harmony out of discord, good will out of ill will, and peace where the cry has gone forth that there is no peace.