Woman's Sphere noted American women were among more than two thousand delegates, representing fifty-two nations, at the International Congress of Mental Health, held in London last August. They were Anna W. M. Wolf, family counselor, and Mrs. George Van Trump Burgess, vice-president of the Child Study Association of America. Mrs. Burgess commented on the "sense of interdependence of sciences upon each other, and of nations and individual human beings." If only everyone in the world could understand the true importance of that interdependence, surely we would have peace instead of war! Two In a meeting in Washington, October 29, called by the American General Federation of Women's Clubs, leaders of national youth organizations and producers of radio and movie programs and publishers of comic strips, discussed radio, television, and movie programs and comic books for youth. It was agreed that the makers should go much further than merely "observing the negative code—no nudity, no glamorizing of alcoholic beverages, no contempt of law, family, or respected institutions, no torture, no detailed methods of youth crimes, no obscene language." A common aim was agreed upon to give youth the best in entertain- Ramona W. Cannon ment. Programs "should produce vibrant mental and social health." Parents, teachers, and children should be taught discrimination, and local distribution of available good entertainment should be assured. MRS. J. L. BLAIR BUCK, president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, on a recent trip to Japan, saw the Emperor open the Japanese Diet (legislative body), and through an interpreter she talked to five Japanese women members of the Diet. MRS. LEONARD A. ROBBINS, ninety-three, of Salina, Utah, is believed to be the longest-married wife in the state. She has been wed for seventy-two years. IN the autumn graduation of medical students from the University of Utah, a young woman received the highest scholastic rating. Gwen Gleave, of Annabella, Sevier County, Utah, was honor student in a class of twenty-six men and four women. HELEN C. PAYNE, of Ogden, Utah, is one of three women in America to hold executive positions in the United States Forest Service. She is an assistant in the department of education. She helps to educate the public regarding the needs and methods of conservation and fire prevention. Page 173 VOL. 36 EDITORIAL MARCH 1949