How to Make an Embroidery Floss Case (Handy Hint for the Sewing Bag) Afton N. Porter 1 ters are few things more annoying or more time-consuming than that tangled ball of embroidery cotton. Here is a very simple solution to the "knotty" problem. Take a piece of lightweight, white material—voile or thin muslin is very suitable—16% inches long and twice as wide as you wish the case to be (24 inches is a good width). Make a % inch hem on each end. Join sides A and B and turn right side out. Make rows of stitching from C to D about % inches apart across the entire width of the case. Cut skeins of 6-ply embroidery cotton as usual, and with a safety pin lace them through these stitched spaces. You will have one of the neatest and handiest articles for your sewing bag you have ever owned. Not only does it keep your thread clean, but it permits you to draw out one or several threads at a time without tangling the entire skein. 24" A B Cc t qT T t eee T T T t a | T T enehtael T T a | T T ies T T T cia ede ale ee Oeeeeeen, CHOIEt Ped eh ee ea ne ee ee Tarra reae. Ee. Bdo TRO eae PPP tse > aaa Gnas SPeeipae tele Sea Leeee ik Seeeene) Suet rt tC Toa Dees ov fe fee ei ti eet teem y Peep eee ea GEE E Rs | eure SeLUALL hea) Pee eee fetes SOR eeeeelcasy | lFho } oa eee (ical ht eee ee Ue LO D 4__|___ fs a | ik Mitel tl Stitching in rows 3" apart Page 186 16%" 16%" That's My Towel! Ivie H. Jones ela wear out faster by washing than by wiping. No one wants to wipe on a towel someone else has used, so into the wash it goes. When towels are both colorful and plentiful, we have a different color for each member of the family. Sometimes they are just white towels with the stripes of the colors. As each child came into our home, we added a different color. Children like the feeling of ownership, and I'm sure you will find, as we did, that they will soon take delight in hanging up their own towels and in keeping them clean. I can just hear our tiny tots, pointing to the wet clothes on the line on washday, saying: "That's my towel. When will it be dry?" And I seldom put them away after washday, for willing hands were anxiously waiting to put their own towels away and hurry back to take the stacks for Mother, Father, Grandpa, or guest. There have been times when we could not buy the particular color we ase SO we labeled the towels and the racks, being sure that each member of the family, as well as guests, had his own towel. It doesn't take long to write the names in large letters and with a coarse boilproof silkaline thread, chain stitch over the letters using a particular color of thread for each member of the family
and for the guest. Name tags for labeling the towel racks can be purchased at most any book and stationery store or they can be made of a strip of used tin can, bending both edges over a knife blade to allow the insertion of the name card. Try labeling your towels, and it will surprise you how few towels you will have in the wash each week and how long they will wear. 'a 1 Art Seacher C. Cameron Johns You taught me the clean, sweet taste Of poetry on the tongue The slim inquiring fingers of music And, even though you are gone, My years are still scented With the fragrance Of your laughter. Page 187