for sale. Another neighbor, Abigail Smith, offers to help with ideas and transportation. — OANNA smiled at the elevator J gitl. "My husband told me that freight accounts were on the fifth floor." _ "That's right." The gitl slammed the door. 'They shot up. "Say, what you got in that basket. _— smells so good?" "Home-baked bread, Bostonbaked beans. I'm aimin' to take orders." But the girl was opening the doors with a great clatter and did not hear. Clerks were pouring out of doors into the long corridor. They sniffed When they passed Joanna's basket, and turned to stare. She heard one man say, "Boy, I haven't smelled home-baked bread for twenty years - ++. WOnder who the lucky guy is?" Somehow it gave her courage to go into the great barnlike office. She walked down the long row of tables, each with its typewriter. The gitls who brought their lunches were grouped at a table against the wall, 'y unwrapped wax-paper sandwiches with white, manicured fingers. Their hair lay sleekly to their heads in deep finger waves, They watched Joanna's progress Page 196 down the aisle, eyeing her basket suspiciously, Joanna stood at their table. She smiled waveringly. "I.[ guess you girls get mighty tired of just sandwiches every day?" They groaned politely in assent. "But times are hard." They watched her lift the lid of the basket. Joanna brought out a jar of baked beans, opened it, let the fragrance steam past their noses. She took out a loaf of brown bread, cut a slice for each girl; put it and a small portion of the beans on the paper plates. She swallowed. "T'd like right well to have you try this. My name and my telephone number are on the underside of the plates. If you would like me to deliver an order of beans to your house, or even here to your office, just phone me. I have home-made bread, too. Saturday afternoons, you might like to stay down town shopPing instead of having to get a meal. Or you might like to have some for a party. Call me if you do." She folded the napkin over the basket - and closed the lid with shaking hands. "I. I cook other things, too." The office girls looked at her with bright smiles that promised nothing. "Thanks. We'll call you if we need anything." There was such emptiness in the words that Joanna's heart sank. She turned to go away. "Your mothers now, if you're not married, might like an evening off, Boston-baked JOANNA and home-made bread would be a grand combination." "Wouldn't it, though?" The same flatness, yet when she turned to go down the stairway to the next floor, she was rewarded by a small shriek of delight, and looked back in time to see the small dark girl's eyes roll heavenward as she brought another spoonful to her mouth. T was a little after one when Joanna brought the empty basket to the car. She counted. 'There was one loaf of bread left and four jars of beans. "Now can we go home, Mommy?" Sally was tired and hungry. "Soon, darling." Joanna climbed in the front seat with Abigail, who was all breathless eagerness. "How did it go, this time? Did you get any orders?" Joanna shook her head. "They said they would phone." Abigail backed noisily out of the parking. "Well, it was a right good try, Joanna. Don't you feel bad if it don't work. You did your part." "But they've got to call. There's a need. Working wives and mothers get mighty tired at times. I should think they'd like to have a hot meal brought right to their house.... Oh, Abigail, if you'll just help me get started.... Drive me around. I'll see you don't lose by it." Abigail turned her lovely, silverframed face. "Help? You couldn't stop me from helpin'. I never had such a nervous morning. I wouldn't a missed it." | They passed the church on their way home. Women were wending their way up the wide steps. "The 197 bazaar!" Abigail gasped. "I was supposed to bring a hot dish." Joanna sat up straight. "Wait! Stop, Abigail." "What on earth for?" "T''ll leave the rest of the beans and the bread. Ask them to make a sign, telling people I've. I've gone into business." Joanna found herself bone-weary when she carried the empty basket into her kitchen. She saw that Penny and David had eaten half a pie and nothing else for their lunch. She gave Michael and Sally bread and milk, bathed their tired, dirty hands and faces and tucked them in for a nap. She went back to the kitchen, ate a bowl of bread and milk, and washed the dishes and sorted laundry. She put the clothes through the antiquated machine that was kept in the old pantry just off the kitchen. She found herself watching the phone, willing it to ring. It was mute. It did not ring the next day nor the next. Friday night, when the children were in bed, Joanna sat with her mending at the kitchen table. It hadn't taken long for the family to get down to rock bottom. There was only a little coal left in the shed. Young David's feet were almost on the ground. The cupboards were alarmingly bare. Joanna stared at the sack of beans that still stood beside the kitchen door by the range. She thought wearily, when the idea came I was sure it was an answer 1 thought a miracle had happened—that I was being shown a way Imagination, I guess. She put her head down on the table, rocked her forehead on her arms, fear and misery a nausea within her. 198 HE phone rang. Joanna lifted her head and stared at it a moment. 'Then she rose listlessly and went to it. "Hello?" "Mrs. Niels?" "Mies." "Mrs. Niels, this is Betty Sharp from the freight account office. Remember? You came up here last Tuesday.", Joanna felt the thunder of her heart through her whole body. "Yes, I remember." "Well, the girls told me to call you back and give you this order. I forgot about it completely until tonight. Let me see " The girl was evidently sorting lists. "Altogether there will be ten loaves of the white bread, twenty-one of the Boston-brown bread, and_ twentyfive quarts of the beans, oh, and Mrs. Niels?" "Yes." Joanna fought to keep the tears from her voice. "Could you make a birthday cake for me. A special ones. I. I want some window dressing for a young man I know." "I. Td love to make a cake for you," Joanna said. "Mrs. Niels? You're crying. Something wrong?" "No. No. Everything is right beautiful." Still with the tears pouring down her cheeks, Joanna slipped David's gray sweater over her shoulders and ran to tell Abigail. Abigail had been brushing her hair, preparing for the night. But when Joanna told her, she braided it swiftly and pinned it in a roll. Tears slipped down her plump cheeks, "Joanna! Isn't it simply wonderful? Oh, I'm that happy, I Is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 loaves of "Well, could just cry. 'T'wenty brown bread!" She rose. We'd best get started." Her husband, reading the paper by the round dining-room table, raised his head. He put down the paper. "'T'wont last Just a fad. Don't count on it none." Abigail flicked her shawl at him. "Fiddledeedee, Henry! It's going over just fine. You watch." He shook his graying head; his eyes surveyed them sadly over his steel-rimmed glasses. "You watch. Folks start out with a bang, but it never amounts to nothin'; pretty soon they'fe down with the rest of us, content to let well enough alone." "I won't give up," Joanna cried. "I won't. I'll never leave life alone until it gives me what I want for my children!" "You'll learn," he said sadly. Joanna and Abigail ran across the lawn that separated their homes, into the warm, cheerful kitchen. Abigail took off her shawl. "TI deClare, you are the neatest person. Your house is always pin-clean." Joanna ran to the drawer that held pencil and paper. "Thirty loaves at fifteen cents a loaf. That's four-fifty." "But you have to consider the flour and milk " Abigail pulled her chair closer to Joanna's. "

Course you could use water lots o' women do." "No," said Joanna. "That's why I'm charging so much, because the ingredients are just right. Like I'd make for my own." GEVENTEEN dollars! Even when | Joanna held the money in her hands she couldn't believe it. She JOANNA had orders for another Saturday and could she make a casserole dish of chicken and trimmings for an anniversary supper? Joanna drifted down to the car where Abigail waited. "I can pay you for the gas and the oil." "Better keep it until next week. You never can tell. But I forgot, that young man down the street brought over another sack of beans." "I'm not at all surprised," said Joanna softly. The following Sunday was fast day. Joanna pressed the navy blue and mended David's trousers again and took her children to Sunday School. She watched Penny walking ahead of her, holding Sally's hand. Penny's arms and legs were thinner, and there was a new quietness about her, something protective in the way she listened to Sally's prattling. It had been hardest of all on Penny. I'm so busy I can't talk to her the way Big David did, Joanna thought, or tease her out of her quietness, keep her from brooding —so much to do, and so little time. They tiptoed inside the chapel doors. In the little hallway two men were taking offerings and tithes. Joanna opened her purse and took a dollar out of it. She put it and two dimes and a fifty-cent piece on the table. "Joanna Niels," she said. "Thank you," the man gave her the receipt. They held fast-day meeting almost directly after Sunday School. Joanna sat on one of the benches at the back. Michael and Sally sat on either side of her, holding their heads proudly. Penny smoothed her 199 starched, blue cotton dress, her thin fingers ran lightly over the patched place in the skirt. Joanna wondered why it should hurt her so to have Penny shabbily dressed. Fiercely, she hungered to give her daughter beauty of every kind. Penny lifted her face and smiled at her mother. Her eyes were darkly brown, like Big David's had been; her face was a delicate triangle, the rich dark hair hung around it like a cloud. "Aren't the flowers beautiful, angel-painted?" The fast-day services began. Humbly, Joanna and her little brood bowed their heads for the prayer and the sacrament. Wide-eyed they watched the babies brought forward and blessed, the older children confirmed. Then came the time for testimonies. Joanna kept her eyes on her clasped hands, while one after another rose, and told of their faith and their blessings. Perspiration sprang to the palms of her hands and her heart pounded furiously. She tried to push away the urging within her. She had never spoken before more than three people at once in her life. A testimony like mine, she thought, is such a small thing. Surely it won't be needed. Yet suddenly she was on her feet, supporting her shaking body by her two hands leaning hard on the varnished bench before her. ' My dear brothers and sisters She swallowed, but her throat would not open. "My dear brothers and sisters." She was awate of the bishop smiling his encouragement, of Mrs. Anderson in a new blue hat, of Abigail's stunned face. A. I came today to bear my (Continued on page 214) FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Vera Y. Allen PIONEER STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), STAKE AND WARD OFFICERS WHO DIRECTED THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING FUND PROJECT Front row, seated, left to right, Pioneer Stake officers: First Counselor Julia Barg; President Vera Y. Allen; Secretary-Treasurer Evelyn C. Phelps; Second Counselor Hulda Ashby. Back row, standing, left to right: Annie Theyne, stake board member from the Twenty-fifth Ward who stood in place of Ruth Sutton, ward Relief Society president; Winona Sessions, President, Twenty-sixth Ward Relief Society; Cora Newbold, Thirtysecond Ward; Gertrude Bischoff, Cannon Ward; Thelma Drecksel, Edison Ward; Ardella Davey, Jordan Park Ward; Birdie Gibson, Poplar Grove Ward; Lavell Smith, Riverview Ward. Stake Secretary Evelyn C. Phelps reports the successful efforts of the women of this stake in collecting the Building Fund against adverse conditions: "They knew that the call to raise the funds was truly a worthwhile endeavor. This thought, along with the knowledge that each Relief Society sister of her own free will could have a part in the project, no matter how large or how small, that she might be that one part that would complete the project.... Thereby fulfilling the desire of the organization to remain independent and stand on its own feet, so to speak, spurred the members of the society to 'put their shoulders to the wheel.'... They are remembering the blessings which they know come from honest sacrifice and they are not forgetting the part the Priesthood, as well as non-members, played in this endeavor." Page 200 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 201 SS Photograph submitted by Marie E. DeSpain SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), SOUTHGATE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: Second Counselor Amelia Dellenback; President Cula Magnusson; First Counselor Ada Jacobson. These sisters have devotedly conducted the activities of their ward to successful completion of many fine projects, including an exceptionally high percentage of Magazine subscriptions (185% for 1947), with Marie E. DeSpain as Magazine representative. | The ward officers shown in the photograph are all mothers of missionaries now in the field. President Magnusson has two sons now on missions, one in Canada and the other in Tahiti. Rose B. Astle is president of South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Marion D. Clegg WASATCH STAKE (UTAH), HEBER CITY THIRD WARD PAYS TRIBUTE TO VISITING TEACHERS, December 15, 1948 Seated, left to right: Bessie Hicken; Violet Rasband; Elizabeth Wootton; Sarah Carroll; Margaret Callister. Standing, left to right: Sarah Kendall; Sadie Clegg; Maybell Sizemore; Mae Calderwood; La Preale Winterrose; Margaret Pierce; Agnes Wallace; Theola Swain. Marion D. Clegg, Second Counselor, in Wasatch Stake Relief Society, reports an unusual record in visiting teaching: ""The Heber Third Ward Relief Society honored their visiting teachers and one of their past presidents, Elizabeth Wootton, who has served as a visiting teacher for sixty years, at a party December 15th. For the past thirty years this ward has maintained the 100 per cent visiting teaching record established by Sister Wootton when she served as counselor and later as president in the NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 Photograph submitted by Margaret Gibson NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, WILLOWS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY NEW ORGANIZATION SPONSORS SUCCESSFUL PROJECTS Front row, left to right: President Margaret Gibson; First Counselor Una Jensen; Second Counselor Martha Nelson; Secretary Sylpha Hofmann. Back row, left to right: Violet Jensen, missionary; Elsa Graham. President Gibson reports that immediately following the organization of this small branch the sisters began their work: "With the help of the Magazine and some of our fine books (Essentials of Church History, etc.), we did the best we could. For our work meeting we started a Relief Society hope chest. Each of us bought materials and made articles to gradually fill our chest and ready it for the bazaar. Then to our very good fortune Sister Violet Jensen, the missionary, was sent here. She really knew Relief Society work and taught us and guided us. She also made many lovely things for our hope chest. With the help of Sister Graham's husband, who acted as auctioneer, we made $155 at our bazaar. Last spring, in three and a half months, we quilted five quilts." Mary S. Ellsworth is president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. NORTHERN STATES MISSION, SHEBOYGAN (WISCONSIN) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY'S FIRST QUILT Seated, front: Barbara J. Hilderbrand, Secretary-Treasurer. Standing, left to right: Rosalind J. Henneman, President; Betty L. Morrell, Second Counselor; Betty B. Ruge, First Counselor. Elna P. Haymond, President, Northern States Mission Relief Society, reports that this small branch is one of the bright spots of the mission. They have conducted a full program and have met all requests made of them. They are thrilled with the fact that though they are far removed from any other branch or group they still can call themselves Relief Society sisters. 'The members are all young mothers who rejoice in having the spirit of the gospel in their homes. Visitors are encouraged to attend the group meetings and participate in the work of Relief Society and in its spiritual uplift and inspira' Photograph submitted by Elna P. Haymond fon. 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE--MARCH 1949 Photograph submitted by Gladys Johnson NORTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH), SALINA FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Left to right: Millie Martin (1945- ); Amanda Murphy (1942-45); Dey Rasmussen (1932-1942); Sarah Ann Stevens (1932), released because of illness; Roxanna Crane (1912-1932). Bernice Mickelsen is president of North Sevier Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Lula P. Child WESTERN STATES MISSION, ALBUQUERQUE (NEW MEXICO) BRANCH. EXHIBIT OF RELIEF SOCIETY SEWING WHICH WON SEVERAL PRIZES AT THE NEW MEXICO STATE FAIR Left to right: Ruby Surface; Carolyn Surface; Second Counselor Myrtle Davis; President Carrie A. Laney; Sister Hastings; First Counselor Mina Bowman. The Albuquerque Branch Relief Society entered 14 articles in the New Mexico State Fair and won eleven prizes: 5 first prizes, 3 second prizes, and 3 third prizes. The articles made in the sewing classes were first displayed in the window of an Albuquerque department store, then exhibited at the bazaar, and finally entered in the State Fair exhibits.: Lula P. Child is president of Western States Mission Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 205 Photograph submitted by Marie Moody DESERET STAKE (UTAH), DESERET WARD, SEVEN RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Seven of the twelve presidents who have served since the organization of the ward in 1877, appear in the photograph. Front row, left to right: Grace Warnick (1917-1918); Mary A. Western (1918- 1929); Ellen Cropper (1935-1938). Back row, left to right: Myrtle B. Western (1946 - _); Mollie Dewsnup (1938- 1944); Zada Dewsnup (1944-1946; Moneta Baker (1934-1935). Marie T. Moody is president of Deseret Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Venice O. Larsen WASHINGTON STAKE, GREENBELT BRANCH (MARYLAND) RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1948 Left to right: Bernele Hale; Madge Mitchell; Joan Blatter; President Venice O. Larsen; JaVenta Lewis; Irma Stuart; Second Counselor Nelda Anderson. Gwendolyn T. Gwynn is president of Washington Stake Relief Society. 206 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Photograph submitted by Beatrice Thomson NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, ANCHORAGE (ALASKA) BRANCH ASSEMBLED FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE November 14, 1948 Front row, left to right: Bonnie Miller; Alta S. Easton; Helen Dunyon; First Counselor Beatrice Thomson, resident Lucille Eberhart; Second Counselor Virginia Albrecht; Secretary-Treasurer Florence Nayer; Maree McDonald; Madeline Skousen. Second row, left to right: Sue Williams; LaPreal Sands; Doris Bisel; Shari Nixon; Gerry Meyers; LaVaun Taylor. Third row, left to right: Barbara Stephens, Clara Easton, Cora McCarrey; Mary Ellen Rasmussen; Lois Reider; Lena Morrison, Edna Easton; Theresa L. Reid. Sister Thomson expresses appreciation for Relief Society in a recent letter from this northern outpost: "It ls such a wonderful feeling to be able to participate in Relief Society work up here in Anchorage. It makes all of the sisters here feel much closer to each other." Georgina F. Richards is president of the Northwestern States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Alice De Mordaunt BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO), BLACKFOOT THIRD WARD BAZAAR November 12, 1948 Left to right: Second Counselor Christine Larson, President Celia E. Merrell; Estella Jones and Rose James, work meeting leaders. This bazaar was outstanding for the unusually large number of beautiful quilts displayed. Many of the patterns used were unique in design and required much fine handwork. Alice DeMordaunt is president of

Blackfoot Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 207 bod 7 Photograph submitted by Elva Swensen YELLOWSTONE STAKE (IDAHO), WILFORD WARD VISITING TEACHERS DISPLAY WELFARE QUILTS, June 25, 1948 Left to right: Vivian Rinehart; Alba Romrell; Clairessa Brown; Annie Hansen; Annie Reese; Herksel Hobbs; LaPreal Bauer; Flossie Singleton; Afton Birch; Edna Dayton; Caroline Stewart; Rosie Birch; Bessie Birch; Florence Bauer. Five of the visiting teachers were not present when this photograph was taken. In the Wilford Ward there are nine visiting teaching districts and each district made a very pretty quilt. For two and a half years there has been 100 per cent visiting teaching in this ward. Some of the teachers have made perfect records for many years. Ward Relief Society officers are: President Lilla Romrell; First Counselor Pear] Hansen; Second Counselor Hilda Fowler; Secretary Erma Meservy. Elva Swensen is president of Yellowstone Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Ilene Webb WEST UTAH STAKE, RIVERGROVE WARD HANDWORK EXHIBITS AT SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR Standing, left to right: First Counselor Lela Roper; President Ilene Webb; Secretary-Treasurer Fern Briggs; Second Counselor Edna Johnson. The photograph shows only part of the many excellent displays at this bazaar. The quilts were unusually beautiful and well-made and the hand embroidery and crocheted articles provided a wide selection of Christmas gifts. The proceeds from the bazaar will be used to provide furnishings for the Relief Society room in the new chapel, when the building is completed. 208 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 oO" yyy Photograph submitted by Mary Stewart AUSTRALIAN MISSION, BANKSTOWN BRANCH BAZAAR October 30, 1948 Left to right: Second Counselor Helen C. Harker; President Mary Stewart; Secretary-Treasurer Marjorie Livingston; First Counselor Eva Orrock. The photograph shows only one of the many attractive and beautifully arranged booths of this bazaar. Other displays included novelties, toys, sweets, cakes, flowers, vegetables, and refreshment stalls where salads, ice cream, and other treats were served. Blanche K. Richmond is president of the Australian Mission Relief Society. Wee $;. A y &s 4 / > te 6 ket < BBE pen vnce are ects Photograph submitted by Anona C. Heaps ST. JOHNS STAKE (ARIZONA), ST. JOHNS WARD BAZAAR Spring 1948 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 209 Left to right: Second Counselor Verniece Wilkins; President Etta Heaps; First Counselor Ellen Davis; Secretary-Treasurer Ethel Mangum. Unusually beautiful crochet and embroidery work was displayed and sold at this bazaar, as well as aprons, children's clothing, and large, well-made quilts. Other activities of this ward included an entertainment called "Around the World Trip" in which a different country was represented in the different homes in the ward and food characteristic of the country was served. The sisters also held pie and ice cream sales and sold box lunches at dances. | Anona C. Heaps is president of St. Johns Stake Relief Society. The Spirit of the Gospel, the Soul of Relief Society | (Continued from page 150) the kingdom of God. President George Albert Smith is God's chosen prophet on earth today. Relief Society was organized according to the law of heaven. It has a work to do in the building of God's kingdom on earth. May we, the sisters of Relief Society today, so live that we may do our part nobly and well is my earnest prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Miracle Gene Romolo They who see the ebon robe of night Change to tenuous draperies of gray, And eastern hill-crests come alive with light To strew gold petals of another day, Behold a miracle. Spring Candlelight Thelma Ireland Crocuses peak through the snow Unharmed by winter's sting. They look like flaming candles Lighted by an early spring. 210 SELECT MUSIC NOW FOR YOUR Faster Program Ladies' Three Part Selections 9033 An Easter Message—Hambhe ee.20 9064 Christ Went Up Into the Hills —Hageman 6 2803 Christ the Lord Is Risen Today—Worthing 10 89081 Easter Dawn—Flagler iB 103 Easter Parade—Berlin __._.20 9023 Empty Tomb—Hamblen.20 6077 Hail the King—Patterson 2 7394 King of Kings—Simper _ 12 Our Christ Has Risen—ConWO? 26 eee.20 6387 Open the Gates of the Temple—Knapp ow..20 9646 There Is a Green Hill Far. Away—Gounod _ 18 EASTER CANTATAS, SSA Memories of Easter Morn—Lorenz...75 Thorn Crowned King—Holton._ Ja Easter Angels—Fearis as Eastertide—Protheroe wwe PS We specialize in music for L. D. S. Choral groups of all types. Write for information. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. We also have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home and school. Representatives for Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, records, and musicians supplies. D FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH; a MAIN STREET A SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 The House of Leaves (Continued from page 163) to remind himself that neither Dad not Mother Henderson was aged or bedridden, that they were financially able to pay for the work they had come to think of as Anne's duty. If they should get sick, he and Anne would be close by—as also would be Josie, he thought savagely. - Coldly, he told himself, it was now or never. If they beat Anne down this time, she would never again have the courage to try while Dad and Mother lived. He could go on adding ten, fifteen, perhaps even twenty years to the five already gone by. Years of going back to lonely nights at Mrs. Nelson's where he'd roomed since his parents' death, of restaurant food ordered from a card and eaten alone; bleak, uneventful years, waiting, waiting and never arriving.. He smiled wryly. Jacob served seven years for Rachel, then seven more. But not he. He got up, put his chair carefully back into place, addressing himself to Anne. "Let me know, Anne, what you decide. Anderson has another buyer for that lot. He's holding it for me until tomorrow morning." Then, he turned to the others. "This whole town has been brought up on the Ellen and John tradition. Ever since I can remember, I've heard what a fine daughter she has proved herself, how loyal to her parents she has been, refusing to leave them and all that. And John! He's been an example of patience and steadfast love toward the girl of his choice. Well, mine is a different idea. Ellen didn't love John enough. If she had, she wouldn't have been THE HOUSE OF LEAVES willing to sacrifice him to her parents as she did." Mark's lips felt dry. He moistened them with the tip of his tongue before continuing. "T think she was just a plain coward," he said. The silence in the room was almost audible. Josie's face was an angry red, her parents' both held shocked bewilderment. He dare not look at Anne. All the coldness of a surgeon's knife was in his voice as he went on. "Now, I'm asking what kind of parents would expect or accept such a sacrifice? The animals, the birds, do better. They prepare their young for life, then turn them loose." OSIE laughed, an_ unpleasant sound. She stood up, and smoothed down her skirt decisively. "He's insulted you, Anne. Are you letting him insult Dad and Mother, too?" Mark turned his head to look at Anne, then. The sunlight had gone from the window. Her face looked drawn and dull against the fading light, her eyes were turned away. Probably, he'd gone too far, probably she'd never forgive him, he thought. But he had to finish. It was important that he finish. "John Barclay was my boyhood hero. I wanted to be just like him. But that was then, not now. Now, I want to have a wife and home while we're young enough for us to enjoy each other. I want us to have our own children, not wait until we're so old we have to adopt 7 S other people's. He buttoned his coat and reached for his hat, smoothing down his short, black hair. "You've had your chance at life," he said plead- 211 AS — ASIN G Guarant SEARS ae Money Back" You can't lose at Sears! In the first place all Sears merchandise is first quality tested in our laboratory, specified at the factory, then field tested under actual '"'in-use"' conditions. Nothing human is infallible. So, just on the long chance that some time something might slip through, we say to you in all sincerity and good faith: "If anything you ever get from Sears doesn't make good—SEARS 252 SEARS GARDEN SUCCESS Salt Lake City Is Assured with Dial 5-6651 P.-W.'s Mountain Grown PARK FREE SEEDS, SHRUBS, TREES THE LARGEST AND MOST COMPLETE - ASSORTMENT IN THE WEST Get Free Catalog Ready in Early February It's brimful of just the information desired by every Planter. A post card request will bring it to you. PORTER-WALTON (CO. P. O. BOX 1619 SALT LAKE CITY 11, UTAH ani2 The NEW MODEL- 21 WURLITZER ORGAN AVAILABLE NOW The prestige of the WURLITZER ORGAN will be greatly enhanced by the addition of this new model to the Wurlitzer line. @ FAST ACTION @R TRUE CHURCH TONE @ AMERICAN GUILD OF ORGANISTS SPECIFICATIONS @ SLIGHT ADDITIONAL COST @R@eeeeeeeeeed For Complete Information Write @ MR. SELDON N. HEAPS r) SUMMERHAYS MUSIC (0. C 17 W. First So. Salt Lake City, Ut. @ @Ce@eeoeoeee ee @ =o D0 DO CO OCD ort Do OE The Same Personal Service to All Regardless of Lost The cost is a matter of your own desire. "Know Your Utahns" Listen to Golden Memories every Sunday 9:45 a. M. On Station KDYL. And read about them in Sunday Deseret News. Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 No. Main Salt Lake City RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 ingly, "all three of you. Let Anne and me have ours." He opened the door and turned back to look at Anne. She seemed not to have stirred. "Let me know, Anne," he said, and went out, off the porch and down the walk, hearing Josie's laugh, loud and confident. Well, he'd done what he could, he'd said what he had to. And now—? He stood for a moment looking about him in a dazed fashion. Josie's high, light voice was going on intermittently, but he could distinguish no words. He kicked aimlessly at the fallen leaves and laughed wryly, remembering the house of leaves that he and Anne had built. And who, he asked himself, had been the big, bad wolf who'd puffed and huffed, and huffed and puffed until the house was down before ever it was built. He'd insulted Anne, called her a coward who'd rather sacrifice him than stand up against her family. Worse, he'd insulted her parents. And that would be harder for Anne to forgive than the other. He moved to the curb, fingering the key in his pocket absently. Was it only an hour ago that he and Anne were planning so confidently? Already, the picture of what it meant was fading into the oblivion of lost things—Anne, marriage, children— but at first, only the two of them alone. A gust of wind struck him. He shivered. Cold for October, he thought. Summer was ended, as all bright things end. He looked back toward the house, at the cold, final stare of the windows, the closed door; gave a furious kick at his front tire and climbed into the car. THE HOUSE OF LEAVES He ground on the starter, waiting for the hum of the motor. His hand was on the brake when he heard her voice, "Mark, Mark," followed by a commanding, "Anne, come back here." Josie was on the porch and Anne was flying down the walk, her auburn hair tumbling in the wind. "Wait, Mark, wait!" | He opened the door and she slipped quickly in beside him. "Drive on," she said, "back to our leaf house, Mark, won't you?" They parked the car and walked through the dusk to where the leaf house lay, its trim lines

somewhat windblown, but still intact. "Tt isn't really blown away. See?" he gestured. "I was afraid." Anne shook her head, her lips trembling. Mark reached penitent arms toward her. "Can you forgive me, Anne?" She drew away from him, self-accusingly. "But you were right. I am a coward, I've always been one. Afraid of Josie, afraid of not measuring up to Ellen Carson, afraid of hurting Mother and Dad. But not afraid of hurting you, Mark. Oh, no, you were patient, you'd stand for it." She pulled away sharply. "I should think you'd hate me." He looked down at the small face with its wide, gray eyes, and tenderly pushed back a lock of bright hair from her forehead. "Hate you, sweet?" he asked wonderingly. "How could I''? Suddenly, she was in his arms again, and he was speaking words in her ear. He had said them many times in the five years, but tonight there was a new assurance in them, a new conviction. This time, he 213 (SEREBSRBSRERB SEE RBERR RBBB RBERE BREUER Professional anel Social Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah SERB EBEEBRSRE RBS ERE RER RRB Heeee| ss! Exulted, this time it will be, knowing, at last, beyond all certainty that there were things—blessed things which might be even better for the waiting. A camel Compromise (Continued from page 154) moment she watched, confused and uncertain, and then her mother's words came back to her, "They don't have the same ideologies—we've got to make them like us—we've got to go halfway." Connie walked thoughtfully down the hall. At the door she paused and looked back at the gaily lighted room. Quietly she opened the door and ran out into the spring night where her friends were waiting for her. 214 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Joanna (Continued from page 199) testimony " The words slipped out, crippled and blurred by the paralysis of her tongue and throat " [Dknow that God lives and that he hears and answers prayers. I was alone and afraid and he comforted me. I had no place to tun " Suddenly the fear went away in the terrible need to explain the miracle. "He brought a way of making a living to my very door If I." She stood straight and tall. "If I were to serve him all the days of my life, I could not repay in any way all that he has done for me and my family." She looked into the upturned faces. "T had to tell you. I know that he lives and that his kindness is beyond our understanding." She sat down. David and Sally stared at her through round, awed eyes, but Penny put Michael on the other side of her and sat close against her mother. She put her head on. Joanna's shoulder. "You were so beautiful, Mommy. So beautiful." Joanna caught Penny's hand in her own, her heart too full for speech. (To be continued) We Are 5o Busy (Continued from page 180) He greeted me in his friendly way, and I asked him about his wife. A shadow crossed his face and he looked suddenly tired and old. "Lucille went home on Monday," he said. "Her mother had an emergency operation and isn't expected to live. I hated to have her go alone. School will be out Friday. I could have gone with her then. But of course she had to go. Going in a plane isn't difficult and someone will meet her, but it is the first trip she's taken alone since— you see Lucille is blind." "Blind?" I gasped in astonishment. "But—but, I didn't dream it," I stumbled. "She doesn't look blind. She doesn't seem blind." "No, you can't tell it by her eyes, and she has a lot of pride and tries to be independent. But sometimes she gets so lonesome and it's difficult. She led such an active life before. I didn't dare ask him what had happened and he didn't say. How long I sat in the gathering darkness miserable and dumbfounded I don't know. I could understand now why she used to sit without doing anything day after day; why she hadn't come to club to learn stencil painting; why she hadn't waved to me. How many lonely hours I might have saved her if I had known, but it was too late now she had gone home. If I had just found time to have gone to the organ recital with her I would have known, but we are always so busy, so very, very busy. Auerbach's Makes It Easy For You To Knit Yourself A Dress Knitting is an easy and fascinating hobby. Auerbach's gives FREE knitting lessons with all yarn purchased. E Minerva Yarns: x MONTEREY, all wool knubby-yarn noone-80c ounce VELVEEN, 71% wool, 29% rayon, shiny rayon thread 80¢ ounce @ Cost of handknit dress pictured..$21 Minerva pattern book containing a marvelous collection of dress patArt NEEDLEWORK AUERBACH'S FOURTH FLOOR Auerbach's, State and Broadway Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me ---.----- copies of the Minerva Pattern book..25c. Please send me ounces of Minerva Velveen or Monterey Yarn. Color 020..2.2.2000c00 NOM ~..00.. Ee ee ne eee eece ce cee eee eecceeeceeneecencecnecececesseneeeesa= sesteeeee CL ee City GMMR! _ 2..-nnneennn----cennnneee-scceeenerecerescceerer-cceeneeceerececeseerceese Please add 25 cents to cover mailing and insurance. Utahns, please add 2% sales tax. From Tear and Sar Blanche Sutherland, Pasadena, California, author of "House of Leaves," is a busy young mother who has this to say of herself: "I have been writing for publication for about ten years, but long before 'that I served my apprenticeship in writing stories and plays for my Sunday School boys and girls. I have had many poems and several stories published, and two comedies and one serious play of mine have been produced by adult groups. My most serious difficulty is in finding time to write." " Sylvia Probst Young, author of "We - Are So Busy," loves to write. She says: 'Ever since I went to the ele- 'mentary school back home in Midway- (Wasatch County, Utah), a pencil has been my favorite tool. It has been a real thrill to have my poetry published in the Church magazines and the local papers. Especially 1 was thrilled to have poems in Utah Sings, in the Relief Society Anthology, and in a national anthology. This story, however, is my biggest thrill— -my first adult story. Before my marriage I taught school and was a missionary in California. My life at present is so woven around domesticity I get little time for anything else. Our family is quite a gane—my husband, a sister, and three very busy little boys. But the writing urge persists and whenever possible I'm at the typewriter." Mrs. Young lives in Midvale, Utah. "T'd just like to mention that I think the poem "January Snow" (1949) by Eva Willes Wangsgaard is one of the most beautiful I have ever read. Thanks for the many moments of pleasure and profit I have had reading your Magazine. _—Josephine Pruett, Winslow, Arizona -May I say how gratified I was with the appearance of my story "Sudden Storm" (September 1948), and how very much I enjoyed and appreciated Mabel Jones Gabbott's beautiful poem "Between Friends," which appeared at the end of my story. I shall always thank The Relief Society Magazine for giving me the encouragement necessary to continue with this "harmless pastime." —Carol Read Flake, Boise, Idaho Page 216 I appreciate having The Relief Society Magazine every month. I pass it on to the Relief Society president who in tum gives it to the investigators. I have heard many of the ladies express their thoughts on the fine material which the Magazine contains. We can give out a Relief Society Magazine where we wouldn't be able to pass out a tract. The material published in the Magazine helps to attract women to Mormonism. May the Lord continue to bless you in your efforts. —Elder J. William Grant, Glasgow, Scotland Yes, I'm married, happy, too. Yet Sister Mitchell and I have one perpetual obstacle to tranquility, e. G. The Relief Society Magazine. Being head of the family, it has long been considered ethical that I receive the mail and browse through it, select the piece most important to myself and then consign the remainder to her for reading. This hoary old system runs smoothly in our home except the day The Relief Society Magazine arrives. Yesterday P. M. Her January number arrived. She received the mail, placed all except the R. S. M. On my desk, cosied herself into her chair with it and "froze" there. That accounts for supper being late, rehashed, and meager. Do you suppose the general board will allow me a personal subscription for 1949 payable in ninety days, or might it be better worked through our great Church Welfare Plan?... After reading this letter to Sister Mitchell she has come through, as she generally does, C with a way out She retrieves from her purse and gives to me $1.50 proposing I order my own 1949 issues of the Magazine, so here it is and I await my own subscription. —Bert C. Mitchell, Salem, Oregon I do appreciate the Magazine, and hope never to be without it. —Mrs. Etta H. Moffett Farmington, New Mexico I want to tell you how glad I am to get your nice, beautiful Magazine. Now I am signed up to 1950 and I need it to make me happy. —Hyrum W. Stevens, Moab, Utah You Are Enriched by Every Good Book You head Sharing the Gospel with Others _ 52.00 Excerpts from addresses of President George Albert Smith This book reveals the spirit and mind of a man whose life is rich with many unusual associations, varied experiences, significant responsibilities. The Vitality of Mormonism 52.00 By James E. Talmage More than 200 short, authoritative essays on themes distinctive of the restored Gospel. A Voice from the Dust $4.00 Compiled by Janet B. Dee The Book of Mormon, illustrated and arranged in delightfully readable form for youth. Introduction to the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price $2.25 By T. Edgar Lyon An interesting, clarifying explanation of these books, their characteristics, literary features, contents—with special emphasis upon the fundamental principles of the Gospel proclaimed therein. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street, P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah We pay the postage when cash accompanies the order. All prices subject to change without notice. May we send a current price list? When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 Life Insurance is a measure of the love a man has for his wife and children.