THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 36 MARCH 1949 No. 3 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Spirit of the Gospel, the Soul of Relief Society by President Belle S. Spafford 148 Relief Society Building News 155 The Song of the Lark by Ivy Williams Stone 156 A Young Mother Discovers Relief Society by Margaret F. Richards 164 Hawaii and the Latter-day Saints by Rosannah Cannon Irvine 166 Clean-up and Beautification Program by James M. Kirkham 171FICTIONCompromise—Third Prize Story by Mildred R. Stutz 151 The House of Leaves by Blanche Sutherland 160 We Are So Busy by Sylvia Probst Young 178 Joanna—Chapter 3 by Margery S. Stewart 196GENERAL FEATURESSixty Years Ago 172 Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 173 Editorial: Full Measure, Running Over by Marianne C. Sharp 174 Notes to the Field: The Importance of the Visiting Teachers Message 175 Organizations and Reorganizations of Mission and Stake Relief Societies 175 Special Short Story Issue Planned for April 177 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Socials, Bazaars, and Other Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 200 From Near and Far 216FEATURES FOR THE HOMETake Care of Your Books by Ezra J. Poulsen 181 How to Make a Pleated Skirt by Lena DuPaix 184 They Are Not Mine by Caroline Eyring Miner 185 How to Make an Embroidery Floss Case by Afton N. Porter 186 That's My Target! by Ivie H. Jones 187 Antiques to Know and Cherish by Lorene Pearson 188 Cakes Decorated and Designed at Home by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 192POETRYI Have Seen Aspens—Frontispiece by Alice Morrey Bailey 147 This of Destiny by Elizabeth Terry Blair 159 Sky Writing by Marvin Jones 177 Longing by Susa Gould Walker 177 I Have No Need by Grace Zenor Pratt 183 Compensation by Jessie M. Robinson 185 Art Teacher by C. Cameron Johns 187 Cotton Storm by Leone E. McCune 191 Overtone by Dorothy J. Roberts 191 My Wish by Gene Romolo 209 Spring Candlelight by Thelma Ireland 209

---

of the gospel, obedience to its teachings, a willingness to keep the commandments of God on the part of Relief Society women are prerequisites to their well-being as individuals and to the well-being of Relief Society as an organization. The Second Epistle of John, addressed to a woman, "unto the elect lady," may appropriately be addressed to Relief Society women today: Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.... And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 we had from the beginning, that we love one another. And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it.... Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward (Second Epistle of John, verses 3, 5, 6, and 8). In the gospel of St. John we read this message of the Master to his children: If ye love me, keep my commandments. He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him (John 14:15, 21, 23). The Lord will come unto Relief Society; he will make his abode with us, and the blessings of heaven will rest upon our beloved society so that it will continue to move forward in a glorious manner if we who make up its membership will but love the Lord and keep his commandments. Our work will be accomplished with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance and we as individuals will receive the rewards of righteousness— even peace in this world and eternal life in the world to come. I know that this gospel is true. This testimony sweeps over me at times with an almost startling reality. There is a Father to whom we may go in prayer and find comfort and sustenance, inspiration, and guidance. Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, chosen to bring to earth in this dispensation the gospel of Christ, the only plan by which we may live and gain exaltation in (Continued on page 209) Third Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Compromise Mildred R. Stutz MURIEL watched her daughter Connie walk up the path toward the front door. Her books were tucked under her arm, her saddle Oxfords scuffed the wet pavement slightly. Her blonde head was stiffly erect and she gave no indication that she was aware of the girls walking down the sidewalk behind her. Muriel sighed and turned from the rain-drenched window. There was no sense in letting Connie know that her lonesomeness was not a secret. The door opened and Connie came in. "Hello, Mother," she said, "mmmmm, something smells good—baked ham?" "Yes, orders from the boss. Is it still raining?" "Cats and dogs," Connie answered. She tossed her books on a chair and walked into the dining room with her mother. The table was set for twelve. Gleaming linen, silver, and crystal were accentuated by a centerpiece of early spring flowers. Muriel looked at the table with satisfaction. "Dinner party?" Connie asked. "Yes, prospective customers. Loads of money." Muriel felt a stab of uneasiness—almost like guilt. It had been lingering inside her all day as she had gone about preparing for the dinner party. "Don't look so worried, Mother MILDRED R. STUTZ dear," Connie said flippantly, "I promise not to drink out of my saucer. In fact, if you don't mind, I think I'll take in a movie. I don't relish spending an evening in a business conference." Muriel smiled fondly at her daughter. She was glad she had made the suggestion. "Of course I don't mind, dear. These people wouldn't be interesting to you anyway." A wave of relief washed over Muriel, followed by the guilt again. "If there isn't anything I can do to help you, I think I'll study for awhile." Page 151 152 "Go ahead, Connie. Mrs. Keller is here to help in the kitchen and do the serving. I don't think there's anything you can do." Connie walked slowly up the stairs. Watching her go, Muriel's heart ached for her. It wasn't right that a young girl should be so alone. Why couldn't she adjust to the new town? True, it held little resemblance to the town she had grown up in, but Connie was sixteen, and, surely, she was old enough to realize that nothing stayed the same forever. Lakeside had been such a peaceful, quiet, little place. Looking back on it now, it seemed almost dull. Everybody knew everybody else. They went to Church on Sunday, did their laundry on Monday, and chatted over the back fence as they hung the clothes to dry. They visited in the grocery store and compared price lists and grocery bills. Scottsville was different. There was so much to be done. The big old house had been completely redecorated. John's office had changed from empty storerooms to an attractive suite. His business was building up fast and they were meeting all the right people. IN her room, Connie stared moodily at the rain sliding down the window pane. There was really no reason why she should study tonight. She was already far ahead of the rest of the class. She made a few doodles on the flyleaf of her notebook, walked to the window, back to the dressing table, and finally back to her books. She might as well study, there was nothing else to do. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Muriel moved from kitchen to dining room, giving efficient instructions to Mrs. Keller and attending to details that required her skilled touch. It was going to be a lovely party. The guests were, for the most part, strangers to her. They were people who had great influence both socially and financially. They could mean a lot to the business. Muriel had been to enough dinner parties in Scottsville to know how vastly they differed from the parties at Lakeside. They had a sophistication about them that did not come easily for Muriel. She had been born in a religious family and had grown up in a religious town. The moral values taught her from childhood had never been questioned, and she had passed the same teachings on to her daughter. It was John who had first felt the bonds of their provincialism. In his business he came in contact with many people. They were people more worldly and less hampered with moral laws than he was used to dealing with; but they had money and influence, and John's business needed both. Muriel opened the refrigerator and tried to ignore the unfamiliar bottles inside. She shifted them about and was irked that the guilty feeling still persisted. She turned to see Connie coming in the door. She was angry with herself for quickly closing the door, so she busied herself about the kitchen to conceal her annoyance. "How about a handout, Mother, I'm starved?" Connie sliced some bread and buttered it. She pulled some leaves from some lettuce, folded them between the bread, and COMPROMISE viewed the sandwich appraisingly. "Some mayonnaise and a pickle, and I'll have a piece of art," she laughed. Muriel felt a strange prickling on the back of her neck as she saw her daughter cross the room and open the refrigerator door. Connie gave a low whistle and exclaimed, puzzled, "For Pete sake, what's this? A brewery?" Muriel tried to sound nonchalant. "People around here are different than they were at Lakeside. They don't have the same—ideologies." "Yes," said Connie, her brown eyes troubled. "I've noticed a difference among the kids at school. They don't act the way I do." Muriel hurried on, uncomfortable, "The contacts your father makes here tonight are very important. These people can mean a lot to the business. We've got to make them like us—we've got to go halfway." Muriel knew her explanation sounded weak. The thought occurred to her that she was explaining to herself as much as to Connie. She wondered if the explanation was as unsatisfactory. CONNIE ate her snack in silence, and Muriel, unable to feel at ease, excused herself to go dress. It was nearly time for the first picture at the Embassy, so Connie took her raincoat and umbrella from the hall closet and, calling a quick goodbye to her mother, stepped out into the early spring evening. Raindrops splashed in the puddles along the sidewalk, making the reflected street lights dance crazily. The steady drumming of the rain on her umbrella was comforting to Connie—comforting and yet a lonesome sound. She walked slowly, counting the squares in the sidewalk, watching people move about behind lightly curtained windows. A very noisy jalopy clattered down the street. Connie recognized a number of students she had seen about the campus. The movie was dull. Connie sat through one feature and then, because it was still too early to go home, stayed for a cartoon and newsreel. It was still raining as she left the theater and hurried down the sidewalk toward the drugstore. She was about to enter when a girl's voice called, "Hey, Connie, come here." Turning slowly, she saw the old battered jalopy parked at the curb. She hesitated a moment and then approached the car. She didn't know the girl who called to her, but it was nice having someone know her name. "Climb in, Connie, we'll take you home." The driver of the car was a large, dark fellow Connie had seen at school. He had always seemed friendly even though he appeared somewhat older than most of the students. "No, thanks, I think I'll walk—it isn't far." "Aw, come on, Connie," someone said, "there's plenty of room." The car door opened and Connie saw five or six boys and girls inside. Some of them looked familiar, others were strangers, but they were all laughing and joking and urging her to join them. It was warm inside and the rain danced merrily against the tin top, and everyone seemed to be having fun. Connie smiled uncertainly, "All right," she said and stepped inside. There was a faint odor of tobacco 154 smoke and some unfamiliar smell she couldn't identify. In the back seat the boys and girls shifted about to make room for her. She felt herself pulled down onto someone's lap, and arms held her firmly. The car jerked to a start. THEY careened down the wet streets and stopped in front of Connie's home. The lights were burning brightly and strange cars were parked in the driveway. "You don't have to go in yet do you, Connie?" they kept asking, "it's only a little after ten-thirty." "I'm supposed to be in before eleven," she said. "Won't your old man let you stay out later than that?" Connie tried to be as gay as they were, "Oh, I'd better check in," she said. "Look, Connie, why don't we all drive out to Traveler's Inn and have a snack or something. We'll bring you right back and you'll be in before midnight easy." They were all coaxing. They acted like they really wanted her to go. "Traveler's Inn," she asked, "where's that?" There was a slight pause. "Oh, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 it's a little place just outside the city limits—not very far." Someone giggled and the arm around Connie tightened slightly. "I'll tell you what I'll do," she said, "I'll run in and tell Mother and Dad where I'm going, and if they


say it's all right, I'll be back." She ran lightly up the walk. It was fun having friends again. The uneasiness she had felt when she first entered the car was slipping away, and now the invitation to Traveler's Inn, whatever that was, sounded full of fun and excitement. If only the folks would let her go. Of course, it was late and she hardly knew the crowd she was going with, but—well—maybe they'd let her go. She followed the sound of voices down the hall to the living room. Through the glass-paneled doors she could see her parents and their guests. They were seated comfortably about the room. Connie could tell that her father was making what he called the "right contacts." Her mother was serving a drink of some kind to a big, bloated man who lolled awkwardly against the mantle. The room was clouded with smoke. Connie turned slowly and stood in the shadows of the hall. For a (Continued on page 213) Craig, Tommy, and Lanny. Biology at Snow Junior College. Between household tasks." Mildred R. Stutz, Ephraim, Utah, a comparatively new writer, tells us that she is twenty-eight years old, "and the mother of four little boys: Kent, My husband, Howard C. Stutz, is professor of We are members of the Ephraim South Ward, active in Mutual, Sunday School, and other Church and civic auxiliaries. Because of my family of small children, I am unable to be an active member of Relief Society, but I enjoy the Magazine and the visiting teachers. "I have had one poem published in The Relief Society Magazine. Throughout my school years I won several contests, the most important being the Edward W. Bentley Short Story Contest at Brigham Young University. I enjoy writing, but, like most mothers, find it necessary to sandwich my hobby