A SUMMER AT THE U. A. C. IS A VACATION RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST, 1919 Good Morning! Do you read the Relief Society Magazine? Here are the June Conference minutes. And: The Sermon of Joseph Fielding Smith on Genealogy. A cheer-up editorial for the faithful teachers. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints No. 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c. Vol. VI No. 8 L. D. S. GARMENTS APPROVED CORRECT PATTERN Prepaid Parcel Post to any part of United States. 15c extra on each garment to Canada or Mexico. THESE APPROVED TEMPLE GARMENTS are knitted and made right here in our own UTAH FACTORY, to your special order and measurements. Lowest prices on market. Mail your order to us now and say you saw it in the "Relief Society Magazine." Look for the APPROVED LABEL in every garment Lot No. Price 11 Light weight cotton, bleached $1.70 20 Light weight cotton, bleached 2.00 60 Medium weight cotton 2.00 22 Medium weight cotton, bleached 2.25 90 Heavy weight cotton 2.75 24 Heavy weight cotton, bleached 2.75 50 Extra white double, bleached merc. 3.25 10 Medium weight wool mixture 3.50 16 Heavy weight wool 4.00 18 Extra heavy wool 6.00 Sizes from 32 to 44 bust, and 52 to 64 length, as desired. Longer than 64 in. or over 44 in. bust, each size 20c extra. Garments with double backs 25c extra per suit, we make any size desired. Measure bust around body under arms, length, from center on top of shoulder down to inside of ankle. INFANT SHIRTS — Silkaline and Lamb's Wool, $1.00 each. State baby's age. MODEL KNITTING WORKS Franklyn Christiansen, Manager 657 IVERSON STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Phone Hy. 516 Buy Good Bread $150.00 When you buy bread, be sure $25. Down you get ROYAL BREAD. It's nutritious, easily digested, and its $12. a Month genuine "wheaty" flavor makes it a prime favorite at every meal. Including 24 Selections ROYAL BREAD The bread that made mother stop baking You wouldn't be without it for double the price, if no other could be had. is the supreme quality loaf. Only the highest grade ingredients scientifically tested, blended and mixed go into the making of ROYAL BREAD. No other musical instrument equals it. WRITE US TODAY. You can buy it fresh each day at your grocers. Royal Baking Co. SALT LAKE "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" A REAL self filling Pen, guaranteed to satisfy. Ask about it. Write about it. McConahay "The Jeweler" 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah A thrifty nation is a Gibraltar against the surf of anarchy and revolution and all the destructive forces that follow in the wake of extravagance, thoughtless, blind living. SAVE and BUY W. S. S. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete BURIAL SUITS Address: — JULINA L. SMITH, 67 East South Temple Street Phone W. 1752 Salt Lake City, Utah BURIAL INSURANCE IN THE BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS, or Beneficial Life Insurance Company Relief Society Department HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Can You Guess the Reason? While there are no meetings Some stores offer some of their goods at "Cut-Rate" prices, others offer some other "special" inducement to attract customers — and We offer no "Cut-Rate" prices and no "special" inducements, and yet we are well pleased with our patronage. is a good time to read "Love and The Light" by O. F. Whitney $1.25 at the We sell only the very best goods we can obtain, at only a modest profit over our cost — our goods are clean when bought — kept clean — and sold clean — our service is real. SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE Have you tried our Hawaiian Coffee? The Book Store of Salt Lake City 44 East South Temple Street S. S. DICKINSON COMPANY Hyland 60, 61 and 62 676-680 East 2nd South Street. The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS AUGUST, 1919 Clawson Family Frontispiece Relief Society Conference Minutes...Susa Young Gates, Corresponding Secretary 437 Reminiscences of Margaret Gay Judd Clawson (Continued) 474 Construction and Reconstruction in the Home 480 On the Watch Tower James H. Anderson 483 Editorial 486 Guide Lessons 489 ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY. Patronize those who patronize us AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH, Logan. AMUNDSEN STUDIO, 249 Main Street, Salt Lake City. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Salt Lake City. BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO., Billiard Tables, 55-59 W. South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. BURIAL CLOTHES, 67 E. South Temple Street. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. S. S. DICKSON & CO., 680 E. Second South, Salt Lake City. EARDLEY BROS. CO., "Everything for Electricity," Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, "The Jeweler," 64 Main St. MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City. ROYAL BAKING CO., Salt Lake City. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple St. Salt Lake City. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. Peace, Troubled Heart. By Grace Ingles Frost. Peace, troubled heart! Dost thou not know above and over all There watcheth One Who heedest e'en each tiny sparrow's fall? He'll fail thee not, Within the hour of thine extremity, If thou but call. However dire thy need, where e'er thou be. Peace, troubled heart! As gleams more brightly thro' the falling rain, The golden shine, Mayhaps, from out the burden of thy pain, Shall come forth joy. The sun-kissed path is broidered not with flow'rs Most sweetly fair, But withered blooms from lack of strengthening showers. Peace, troubled heart! Trust thou in Him, the One who well doth know The place wherein Thou best canst serve, wherein thou best canst grow Like unto Him. He with sublimest faith the wine-press trod, Despised, alone, With majesty that could but grace a God THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VI. AUGUST, 1919. No. 8. Relief Society Conference Minutes. By Susa Young Gates, Corresponding Secretary. The General Conference of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held this year on June 4 and 5, just following the regular conference of the Church, and preceding the Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A. general June conference. Our own general conference opened with the business sessions held in the auditorium of the Bishop's building, stake officers only being admitted to the Wednesday meetings. Twenty members of the General Board were in attendance; 68 stakes represented, with 311 officers: and three missions were represented. President Emmeline B. Wells, gentle, sympathetic, and full of good testimony and inspirational admonition presided at each of the meetings. No less gracious and dignified was the constant presence of Counselor Clarissa Smith Williams who conducted the active business of the conference and who, in connection with Counselor Julina L. Smith, always tender and faithful, shed forth a radiant spirit of love and harmony which informed and inspired each gathering held during this memorable conference. The music was beautiful, and chosen in excellent taste, especially pleasing was the solo by our own chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, from Haydn, while the organ preludes were gems of artistic rendition. Our General Relief Society Choir was at its best. Perhaps the most striking and popular musical number was the exquisite song of Elder George D. Pyper accompanied in humming sotto voce by the choir. The presence of President Heber J. Grant, during the afternoon session, and his encouraging talk to the sisters was greatly appreciated; while the scholarly address on the Book of Mormon by Elder Anthony W. Ivins claimed the rapt attention of the crowded auditorium of the Assembly Hall. There was the largest attendance in recent years at our conference session on Thursday afternoon. Every seat was taken and standing room was at a premium. The officers' sessions on Wednesday were devoted largely to careful presentation of social service problems in the morning, and of the need and value of the teacher's training work presented in the afternoon by Elder David O. McKay, and illustrated by sample lessons from our own guide work. All in all, this June conference was pronounced unanimously as the "very best ever held." As this is said, however, at the close of all our conferences, the statement carries with it simply the general pleasure felt by those fortunate enough to be present on this profitable occasion. At the stake officers' meeting Wednesday morning, the session was opened by the favorite hymn, "Our mountain home so dear." After prayer by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, the congregation sang, "Come listen to a prophet's voice." President Emmeline B. Wells said, in opening the conference, she wanted to speak to the representative women gathered there with a mother's voice, that her words might be carried out to the length and breadth of Zion. She had wanted always to live a long time, to see Zion and Jerusalem redeemed; she had prayed for that for many years and the Lord had answered her prayer up to this time. It was a remarkable thing, even to herself, to know that she had been in the church 77 years. She was not so quickly converted as some had been, her own mother for instance, who died a martyr to the truth, but when she was really converted her testimony remained with her as a part of her very life. She referred to her first sight of the Prophet Joseph Smith, when sailing up the Mississippi river, and she caught sight of him as he stood on the wharf towering above all those around and sweeping with his magnetic eyes the crowds gathered around him. Her first sight of him had affected her from the soles of her feet to the crown of her head, like a galvanic battery and even now upon recalling the scene the same thrilled testimony sweeps over her. She pictured again the scene of the great apostasy in Nauvoo and the day when she stood in a wagon box and saw the mantle of the Prophet Joseph Smith fall upon Brigham Young. Her own loyalty to the Church was never affected even when four different "isms" broke off from the Church after the martyrdom. "We don't think about our conversion to the truth as the sectarians do. We know it in every part of our body. We love our leaders, all of them and we know that the Lord reveals to them his will. I feel afraid for those who do not remain faithful. I pray the Lord will bless you, all of you, especially those who preside over this great society in the stakes and wards of Zion. May you set an example worthy of imitation not only among RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 439 ourselves but to those outside our Church who watch your acts and words all the time. To such you should testify of the truth of this gospel. I would not have you intrude, but when you have an opportunity remember that we are not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Teach your children and friends to read the Book of Mormon. I love that book. We shall have other books of scripture in the due time of the Lord. We mourn, oh how we mourn, for our dearly beloved Joseph F. Smith. He was one of the greatest men that ever lived upon this earth. "I want the sisters to study the scriptures and become familiar with the Bible and the Book of Mormon. Let them be holy books unto you. Take the precepts found there for your guide for the days are coming when you will sorely need the inspiration which is found in these sacred books. We shall have not only many trials to endure, but we shall be exalted if we endure them faithfully. We must be prepared for what is coming upon the earth. We shall have new revelations as the Lord sees fit to impart them to us. Be obedient to the presiding priesthood wherever you are; sisters, be humble, maintain the truth, follow the majority for there will always be a majority on the right side in this Church. It was either the Prophet or Brigham Young who advised that we go with the majority, for there is safety in that. If you have trials bear them with humility. I bless you one and all and leave my blessing with you." Sister Julina L. Smith felt very grateful indeed to be with the sisters in this conference. "When I see your faces I feel grateful that the Lord has helped and blessed the sisters in the Relief Society. When we think of the ruin in the world we are grateful for our haven of safety and rest in Zion. Our calling is to look after the needy and suffering, to raise up those who are bowed down in affliction and sorrow, to offer their kind word to those who are in trouble. I wonder if the Prophet knew what this Relief Society would be in the days in which we live now. I think he did. We may not have our reward here for the work we do and the trials we endure. I don't look for it here, but our reward is sure if we remain faithful to the end. May the Lord bless you all is my prayer." Counselor Clarissa S. Williams expressed her gratitude in meeting with the sisters. She felt that whatever she was and whatever privileges she enjoyed, were due to her noble father and good mother and to her education received in the Relief Society. Her great desire was to be a noble unselfish worker with the women in this great organization. She bore a strong testimony to the truth of the gospel and she felt that we are instrumental in accomplishing in this society the great work heading the world's latter day activities. We have arranged for this conference some of the features of the special activities which are attracting the 440 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE attention not only of our own people but of the government of this great nation. Just now there is a conference being held in Atlantic City, Georgia, of social service workers. This convention has in attendance a delegation from this state headed by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, our General Secretary, with Elders William A. Morton, Oscar A. Kirkham and Francis Kirkham as well as Mr. Schultz, Miss Kate Williams, and other social workers from Utah who have gone there to partake of the spirit of that occasion. Charity is the foundation principle of this society and the study of the distribution of charitable funds is certainly an important phase of our present day problems. The speaker suggested that the women from Wyoming, Utah and Idaho, shall look up the civic and social conditions in their own towns and see to it that they vote for men to occupy local and state offices who will work for better sanitary conditions in the towns, instituting cleaner cities, paving, lighting, plumbing and sanitary home conditions wherever our women live. She commended those who should take part on the program to the interest and attention of those present and hoped the meetings would be both profitable and pleasant to all concerned. The first number on the special Social Service program was entitled "The Normal Family and Family Responsibility" which was treated by Cora Kasius, of Weber stake: NORMAL FAMILY AND FAMILY RESPONSIBILITY. Students of social science are agreed that the family is the fundamental social institution. Biology and economics join hands with poetry and religion in exalting the family to first place among human institutions. Through the family the individual realizes his highest possibilities and the nation receives its surest protection. All the forces and conditions that go to make up life's activities and to determine human behavior may be measured as social or anti-social by their effects upon family welfare. Maintaining a normal family life and restoring it when disrupted is the object of all social work. Our efforts to improve conditions will be determined by our idea of what constitutes a normal family life. What then is a normal family, and what constitutes a normal life? Normal, as applied to the individual, the family, or the community cannot be given an absolute or final definition. We cannot picture a normal family because it lacks reality. It is non-existent. The reason is this — no matter how much we know about any number of families, the next family we meet will have its own peculiar situations, its own peculiar tendencies, and its own peculiar problems. Being different is one of the privileges of being human, and each individual and each community is different. There are, however, certain existing standards of individual and family attainment that may be termed normal RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 441 in the more relative sense of the word. Inasmuch as it is our task as social workers, as family visitors, to restore the individuals and the families under our care to a normal life, it is logical that we review the standards set by our community for a rational, well balanced life. We may classify the activities of the individual under five heads: first, health; second, industry; third, education; fourth, recreation; and fifth, religion. So much then by way of suggesting the nature of the activities which characterize the field of a normal family life. General as our outline has necessarily been it must be apparent that an extremely large number of families are living anything but a normal life. If we were to examine carefully every implication involved in the study of normality as applied to family life we should come to a fuller realization of just what the business of the social worker really is. Our first realization of these adverse conditions is almost certain to be depressing, and unless we have an unbounded faith in humanity we are likely to settle into an antisocial state of mind characterized by indifference if not outright pessimism. We must not accept conditions as right or inevitable merely because they exist. Philosophies may quarrel as to man's power over his ultimate destiny, but the only workable assumption of social science is that conditions are not as they should be and that through intelligent co-operative effort much good can be done. We know that the handicapped are made to suffer, that the weak are exploited, that the poor are destroyed by their poverty, and that latent talent is going to waste because of lack of opportunity. These evils are abnormal because they are preventable. In our attempts to eliminate social evil, or rehabilitate some family, we find that social evils are so closely interrelated that it is difficult to determine which is the cause and which the effect. Unemployment may be the cause of shiftlessness, or, conversely, shiftlessness may be the cause of unemployment. Inefficiency may be the result of intemperance; desertion, of a low standard of living; crime, of mental deficiency; and poverty, of a combination of destructive social forces. Serious attempts are being made to improve these conditions. Students of social economy hope to prevent disease, overcrowding, accidents, child labor, intemperance, over work, and low wages, by legislation and propaganda. The nation's social conscience is being aroused. By such preventive and constructive work the social worker hopes to bring about proper human adjustment. But while this mass betterment aims to improve man's environment there still remains the task of adjusting man to his environment. This is the particular task of the case worker. The failure of men to adjust is apparent on every side. If they fail 442 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to attain the normal they are said to be maladjusted. The field of case work is to assist the individual to adjust by fitting the opportunity to the individual and helping him to attain his own highest possibilities. As case workers, then, we must work with the individual, discovering his handicaps and endeavoring to remove them, and discovering his powers and endeavoring to develop them, and doing it in such a way that will be best for the family group. Recently I heard an account of a disrupted family. A boy was brought to the Juvenile Court on the charge of stealing. It was his third offense, but it developed that it was food he had stolen on each occasion. An investigation into family conditions revealed a sad state of affairs. The father was a cripple and his income meagre and uncertain. The mother was in poor health, the result of her lack of food, clothing, and care. There was a new baby ill from exposure to the cold and from undernourishment. It was decided that the home was not a fit place for the children to live — and there is no doubt as to the truth of this decision. So the boy was charged to the Industrial school and the baby placed in a more comfortable home. But a home had been destroyed. The father was relieved of his family responsibility. The mother was denied the privilege of rearing her own children. The children were robbed of the affection and the training that only a home can give. Could this home have been saved? Perhaps not. But should it not have had the opportunity to attempt to become normal? What might a case worker have accomplished by investigation and treatment? To transform the unstable inefficient family to a stable efficient one needs a skillful workman. Habits of years must be broken down and new ones established. New standards, larger ideals, and stronger hopes must be introduced. We are not to seek to control the lives of others. If they are weak we may protect them. If they are ignorant we may instruct them. If they are in danger we may warn them. One thing we are not to do, is to relieve them of the responsibility of shaping their own lives. By giving a family in distress merely financial aid, without planning for its ultimate independence, we are pauperizing its members and undermining parental responsibility. We may aid the home but we must not supplant it. Personal influence and personal advice are among the influences that make for character. This we may give. We may help the family to help itself. We must aim, then, to afford the unfortunate individual the opportunity to become self-supporting, independent and useful. He must be helped to find himself as a social being by contributing to family solidarity. There must be a sense of responsibility of the parents for the care and education of the children; a deference and appreciation by the children for the sacrifices of the parents; RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 443 a mutual comradeship of the parents and children; and an assumption of the burdens and responsibilities of the able for the weaker and older members. This determines in the end whether there is or is not a normal family. Our religious tenets embrace the field of social work, and as Relief Society teachers we have the spirit of social service. What we need perhaps is a more thorough study of social conditions and more conscious effort to apply our knowledge. We are indeed our brothers' keepers. "THE UNSTABLE FAMILY." Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry treated "The Unstable Family." "When we climb to heaven it is on the rounds of love to man." We have always had the unstable family in human homes, but the responsibility of caring for them and the method of attack is new. Little buds of human culture are rooted in every human heart but they must have the sunshine to bring them into bloom. The soul naturally looks upward and must have a chance to grow upward. The divine spark if allowed will predominate. There are hovering at every human hearthstone the wraiths of poverty, sickness, vice, drunkenness and diseases of the mind and morals, like Macbeth's witches, lingering at the door awaiting only an opportunity to inject their horrid presence into our homes. She referred to individual cases of dissipation and want. In Paris there are 4,000,000 war heroes blinded, while there is not a child left under four years old in Belgium. They have starved. She spoke of the necessity of play for the feeble intellect, and referred to her long experience in the Provo State Mental Hospital in training the uncertain minds of the inmates there. The causes of weak minds are sometimes mysterious. Inheritance, over work, over excitement, moral diseases, and sudden shock, are all productive of unbalanced minds. Some people use only 40% of their brain power on account of ill health. Vaccination has increased life 3¼ years; 25,000 lives were saved in one year by diphtheria antitoxin. There were 1,000,000 people in the United States afflicted with tuberculosis which was reduced one-half in thirty years; 5,000,000 people are killed or maimed in the United States every year; 17,000 unnecessary deaths occur in the United States every day; 3,000,000 are on the sick list every day. These statistics prove the necessity of studying health problems both from a physical and mental point of view. Sub-normal children always have violent tempers and are easily aggravated. There are two sets of brain cells, first the belligerent, second, the intelligent, and the one is developed at the expense of the other. If the intelligent culture predominates, belligerency loses growth and vice versa. When temper is aroused, mentality is lowered; while those who are guarded from temper outbursts have a double opportunity to develop intelligence cells. Ungoverned temper results too often in insanity. Poverty is not new but it is as unnecessary as malaria. There are 5,000,000 dependent people in the United States; ten out of every hundred people in New York are buried at the expense of the city. In larger cities poverty never falls below 25 per cent. There are 15,000,000 people in the United States who do not have enough to live on decently. The causes of poverty are: sickness, fire, disaster, accident, intemperance, extravagance, lack of judgment and degeneracy. It requires great hope and high courage to face these witches of destruction and fear which linger at our households, both as individuals and as parts of our state and nation. We should not become discouraged nor dismayed. To lose heart is worse than to lose health. We can achieve anything if we have courage and hope. We do not need more law but we do need more love. The greatest service we can render to our heavenly Father is to be kind to some of his children. "WHAT WE SHOULD KNOW ABOUT OUR HOMES AND COMMUNITIES." Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler who spoke about "What We Should Know About Our Homes and Communities," declared in her opening sentences that mothers could protect their children in their homes, but they are not always able to control the environment of their children when outside of the home. She referred to the influence of the teachers in the schools upon the life and character of the children, and dwelt strongly on the importance of putting children in Church schools when at all possible. Parents should be as familiar with the characteristics and spiritual status of the teachers of their children as they are with their friends and nearest of kin, especially if such teachers are non-"Mormons." Anyone who wields so powerful a force in the life of a child as does the school teacher deserves the closest thought and study from the mother of that child. There are four factors in the development of our civic life which should claim the study and attention of God-fearing mothers: first, the education of the child; second, his recreation and employment; third, his health; and fourth, the public officials who administer the revenues in our local communities. The recreation of a child is of equal importance with his employment. He learns more at his play through the indirect teaching of his associates and environment than he does in the school room or at work doing his little home tasks. He renews and builds up his life cells during these play hours. In his dancing, at his picture shows, at his games, and other amusements, the child should have a normal supervision. His habits are himself and, while a child is young, mothers may break up bad habits or inculcate good ones, if they are tactful and persistent. The dress of the child plays its part in forming character. Vanity, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 445 ostentation or slovenliness may engrave lines upon the character through the carelessness or foolishness of the mother. Moreover, if the intelligent mother desires to really shape and mould the developing soul of her child, she must reach out not only in thought and sympathy but with actual tact and study into the lives and characters of all her child's associates. Not only is the child made or marred for life through play, he is even more deeply influenced byhis playmates; for that reason the mother's interest may not end at her own doorstep. Her breadth of vision, her scope of activity must reach into her neighborhood and her community. If she would guard the health of her children, she must see to it that the sanitation of the whole neighborhood is as complete and admirable as she would have her own, for while the water on her own premises may be pure and uncontaminated, the ventilation in her own home irreproachable, her neighbors' yards may be full of manure, garbage, and loathsome toilets which are not cleaned out until they are a nuisance to all. From such other homes come swarms of flies, germs and inoculated habits of mind and body which fasten themselves on to our own children. If our neighbors do not observe quarantine regulations how shall we protect our own children from contagious diseases? We are all Latter-day Saints and believe with all our souls in the law of faith and healing, but we have been taught by Moses and by the Prophet Joseph Smith the absolute necessity of cleanliness and general hygiene. This matter of health for our civic communities is of paramount importance. It is the duty of every woman in the Church to inquire into the character of her state and city officials. She should know who and what the men are who are placed upon local boards of institutions and commissions. She should see to it that her own sex is well represented on all of these boards as it was and is a fixed principle with our people, from the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, that women should have a place on all institutional boards where the interests of women and children are considered as well as those of men. She should know not only the character of the little boys and little girls who play with her own children, whether they are clean minded and wholesome, she should likewise be sure that the men who secure her vote for office are as virtuous, sober and upright, as she wants her own sons to be. Let her walk as a Latter-day Saint mother should, through the highways and byways of her life with wide open eyes to detect the evil, to acknowledge the good and to labor for improvement and progress; nor shall she be unmindful of her children's associations with herself, as she walks with them through the woods, marking the beauty of branches and leaves, the fragrance of the flowers and the glory of the stars. The Latter-day Saint mother will endeavor to associate herself with her children and they with their neighbors and thus to enrich her community 446 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE life with a spirit of God worthy of herself and her high destiny. She will rear her family to be Latter-day Saints because she has realized the value and importance of righteous community life upon herself, her children and her neighbors. "SOCIAL LEGISLATION." Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, social worker from Utah stake, spoke about the law-making body of our state in session in 1919, having considered many measures very important from the standpoint of Social Service Work. In matters of education, its enactments were most liberal. It amended the law providing free books in our grade schools and made it apply also to high schools. It provided for vocational education of minors in part time schools, and appropriated $200,000 for vocational education in all schools of the state. The provisions of this enactment are so liberal that even the most remote sections may be benefited in the year round classes in full day or part day instruction. The object is to give the advantage of training in agriculture, in trades, in home work, in health. It is the most liberal thing yet attempted in the schools of our country, and places Utah decidedly in the forefront. Health. Besides the health education offered to parents and children through the schools, some stringent laws were passed to safeguard the public against social disease. One bill prohibits the sale of drugs for this class of ailments, without prescription; and another makes it unlawful to advertise remedies of any kind whatsoever for their cure. The effect of these laws will be to safeguard individuals against worthless drugs and quack physicians, and to induce those afflicted to get treatment from reliable physicians. Closely associated with these bills and still following up the subject of social disease is another enactment which requires that whenever a physician gives treatment to a person afflicted with a venereal disease in communicable form, such physician must report to the State Board of Health the name of the person so treated and the name and nature of the disease. This bill also requires that such person be advised against marriage, and that free literature on the subject be furnished by the state. In view of the fact that the social evil with its resultant terrible consequences has grown to an alarming extent, and in view of the fact, also, that we have no law requiring health certification for the procuring of marriage license, it is well that our State Board of Health is to have a record of all individuals so treated in the state. The measure also requires such persons to take treatment until cured. When we know that our practicing physicians have been required to take oath never to divulge the name of any person who RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 447 comes to him for treatment for these vile infections; when we reflect on the awful consequences that have come in cases where "The sins of the fathers are visited upon the children to the third and fourth generation" of the transgressor; when we feel uncertain that the purity and innocence of our daughters will prevent their being sacrificed to a life of wretchedness and suffering; then we are made to realize that as mothers, sisters, and wives we cannot urge too strongly the rigid enforcement of this law. This question was asked of an eminent physician of Denver: "Suppose you knew and were treating a man having a venereal disease in communicable form. Suppose you knew that he was to marry a pure and innocent young woman who was ignorant of his condition. Would you, by informing her father or her mother, save her from a life of misery?" The answer was "No, I could not." Being asked the same question, one of our Utah physicians said: "I should go to the man and say to him 'If you do not take immediate steps to break your engagement, I shall be obliged to expose you'." If all our medical men were of the latter type, we might not need the stringent legislation. Another health measure that came up was the anti-cigarette amendment. Its supporters were a large majority in both houses. The bill passed the lower house and was sent to the senate. There a very slight change was proposed and the bill returned to the representatives for approval. It went up again to the senate and now, either by accident or design, it came up when a number of its supporters were absent. It failed to pass because some of the men we sent to represent us in the senate, were over confident of its success. Moral and Social. One of the speakers has mentioned wife deserters — that they are brought back. One of the bills passed by the 1919 Legislature provides that if a wife deserter about to be extradited will pay to his wife $20 per month and to each of his children $10 per month, he may remain away and work. Marriage licenses given in any county are required to be recorded by the State Registrar of vital statistics and the record is to contain the name, date and place of birth, parents' names, nationality of both parties, etc. With this law in force, it will be rather difficult for an unfaithful spouse to go into another part of the state and take another companion. Supervision and inspection of Maternity Hospitals as provided in Senate Bill 24, with the reporting of all deaths, births, and removals, will help to take care of the cases where children are not wanted. Criminal abortions and the wilful putting away of infants will be hit hard by the enforcement of this law. The sale of children is prohibited. 448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE An order of adoption may be vacated. If a child has been adopted and it develops within five years that such child is feeble minded or epileptic or inherits venereal disease, the adoption may be annulled and the child given back to the juvenile court. Generous people are thus protected who would take little children into their homes and care for them, while for the little unfortunates is provided institutional care. The law providing support for widowed, dependent mothers was amended. It allows to each county the sum of $10,000 for this purpose, provided that if the county numbers more than 100,000 inhabitants it may draw $20,000. No family may have more than $40 per month. If there is in the family a child 16 years old who does not contribute the amount of his own support the family is not to be given any allowance. A monthly report of the expenditure is to be made to the commissioners. The allowance for each child is to cease at age sixteen. There are some requirements as to the time of residing in county and state. This law is especially recommended for the consideration of Social Welfare Workers who must know their resources when dealing with dependent families. A bill carrying an appropriation of $75,000 for an institution for the feeble-minded, failed of enactment. The need of such an institution was not questioned. It is one of the greatest needs of our state. But our law-makers were not agreed as to the location. The bill named Salt Lake City as the place. The larger number seemed to be of the opinion that it should be on the large farm at Provo where is already located the mental hospital. Another measure that did not get by was that providing a home for fallen women. The bill had for its object the care and rehabilitation of these women and their training in trades and professions. They were to be divided into classes according to mentality. The period of commitment was to be indefinite; and when paroled they could be returned to the institution at any time, should they return to the old life. The bill should have passed. A mere technicality prevented it. It lacked the enabling clause. As women of Zion, let us use our best efforts for the support of every measure and the enforcement of every law that will tend to uplift humanity. Amen. "THE REHABILITATION OF THE DISABLED AND HANDICAPPED SOLDIERS BY THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT." Miss Beth Bradford said: The rehabilitation of the disabled and handicapped soldier is one of the greatest problems the country has ever faced. The whole world, today, is doing what it can to re-adjust the soldiers into the economic and social systems of peace times, and the rehabilitation of the disabled has become RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 449 a world necessity. The attitude of the public will do much to make or mar the success of the government in placing the men back in industrial life. Someone has said, "The morrow of victory is more perilous than its eve." We have as precedent and study the story of other countries' success and failures. Most of our experience, however, has been developed since August, 1914. We also have the faulty pension system of the civil war by which to profit. One of the saddest mistakes made by the government after the civil war was the gathering into soldiers' homes, all the disabled men, there to lead an idle life while enjoying the pension to which they were entitled. The Soldiers' Home. Just the sound of the name brings to one's mind a great, many-roomed building, which stood a little distance from town, beautifully kept, with wide green lawns, and benches on which the old men sat idly all day long. Some played chess or checkers, and some sat smoking and looking over old magazines which a charitable society had sent. Occasionally, one whittled out images of Lee or Grant, which he sold for small sums to the visitors, but this was an exceptional industry. At evening a bell would ring for supper. From all parts of the building the old men would come, with empty sleeves or stumbling, wooden legs, some leading the sightless, and all would gather at the long table for the meal. You could hear the steady click of knives and forks, and afterwards, perhaps, a tale or two of the great war, and then they would hobble off to dream of days gone by. These soldiers' homes were filled with broken, listless men; but we anticipate that the individual affairs of the future will be rather than institutional homes. Every war has brought back to civilization its halt, maimed and blind; but this time, with our disabled man has come the realization that no matter how crippled he may be, no man need be a waste. There is work in the world for everyone to do even for the man who is handicapped by war and lost limbs. The government now tries to correct the deficiencies caused by wounds or disease, and supplies the man with additional means to make a livelihood. In January, 1919, 200,000 of our men were disabled in hospitals here and overseas; 3,000 had lost limbs, 110 were blinded, and 5,000 were suffering from tuberculosis, and several thousand were suffering from shell shock. It is not true that these men will have to beg for their living. The days for the hat holders, cup bearers, and the man who sells shoe-strings on the streets are days of the past. In June, 1917, congress unanimously passed a law called the Vocational Rehabilitation Law. Under this law was appointed a Federal Board whose duty it is to give to every disabled soldier, 450 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE who is entitled to compensation, all medical and surgical treatment necessary to restore him to health and strength, give him free training for the occupation best suited to him, then assist him in securing a position. The government has accomplished wonders, in restoring these maimed boys back to health and strength, if not to normal activity. The greatest specialists in the country are working with them; they depend much on massage, effects of heat and light, X-ray, baths, etc. So beneficent was heat found during war service that ambulance trains which brought the wounded from the field stations to the base hospitals were, wherever possible, heated to the temperature of Turkish baths. Artificial limbs are being designed in wonderful ways. In the case of arm amputation, instead of supplying a well-appearing artificial arm, there will be attached to this stump a chuck in which can be inserted interchangeably a knife, a fork, a tool, a hook, or some special implement by which to guide or steady work on which he is engaged. Then for Sundays and holidays the man may wear the well-appearing artificial arm. This war has developed wonderful things in surgery. A while ago, in the Walter Reed Hospital, Washington, D. C., a man was dying, and just before life passed, a physician cut away part of his arm, grafted it into another soldier's arm. So successful was the operation that the second man's arm is almost normal. One of our Utah boys lost an eye, and had part of his face blown away. The government specialist supplied a new eye, grafted skin from another part of his body, and so successful was the operation that recently at a dance, some of his friends did not discover that anything about him was changed. Still another of our Utah boys had this experience: He lost an eye, his jaw and both shoulders were broken, and part of an arm blown away. One of the physicians grafted the muscle of his rib and made a new jaw, wiring his teeth. For two months he lay with his mouth closed and received all nourishment through a straw. An artificial eye was supplied, his shoulders restored to normal, and he is now back to health and strength and leaves in a few days to commence vocational training. Re-education begins at the soldiers' bedside, because it has been found quite necessary to divert the man's mind from his trouble. This is done by reading, moving picture shows, games, handiwork, occupations, and so forth. Moving picture device has been invented whereby a man may lie flat on his back and watch the pictures on the ceiling. These moving pictures also bring great solace to the man who must lie for hours in a hot bath. When the man commences to recover, he is put through a course of gymnastics, and later starts the vocational training RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 451 which may be necessary to restore him to self-supporting activity. As long as the training lasts, his personal expenses will be paid and provisions will be made for his dependents. If a man's disability does not prevent him from returning to his old employment, he may take advantage of the vocational training just the same. Before starting his training, the Federal Board experts will study his particular disability, his temperament, his former occupation, his plans for the future, and so forth, and then advise him as to the proper course for him to pursue. An effort is made to get the man interested in a vocation most akin to his former occupation. If a man becomes efficient in a certain line, finds himself not suited to it, or not caring for it, he is privileged to go back under same conditions and take other training. Oftentimes the man will decline to take this training for fear he will be denied his pension, and it is necessary to make him understand that these pensions will not be reduced even though he may fit himself for industry. For instance, if a man has lost his right arm, and through this training becomes more efficient than ever, he still gets compensation as long as he lives. The compensation is given for the loss of his arm; where compensation is stopped is where disability has been removed entirely. Government requires that periodical examinations take place. In Japan the entire profession of massage has been turned over to the blind. In all pin factories in the United States, certain departments have been turned over to the blind. The Federal Board has entered into a special arrangement of co-operation with the American Red Cross and through their four thousand local home service sections they are endeavoring to take care of the disabled soldier's family by giving them information, providing medical and legal advice, giving financial relief when needed and in general assisting in a neighborly sympathetic manner. The Federal Board co-operates with private and public schools throughout the country to carry on approved courses of instruction for the disabled men. There are 50,000 men registered in vocational training. The wounded soldier comes through the field hospital, then the base hospital, and finally reaches the convalescent hospital. About this time he is usually in a state of extreme discouragement. The loss of a hand, and arm or a leg seems to the man, formerly able-bodied, an insuperable obstacle to his future economic activity. The cripples will have a great deal to contend with; the man who has lost his right arm will have to learn to write with his left. The man who lost a leg will have to be trained for a trade at which he can work while seated. When a man has just lost a limb for the benefit of his country, he cannot be expected to be precisely in the mood to appreciate talk about patriotism and all the rest of it, from those who 452 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE haven't lost limbs, but some of the very greatest successes have been achieved under handicaps. Of all orators, Demosthenes, of course, excelled. He stuttered as a boy, and had a voice that hardly carried past his Grecian nose; so he filled his mouth with pebbles and went out on the beach to shout down the breakers. It was good practice for conquering audiences. Among all the great composers, who would be called the greatest? Beethoven. He was deaf during the great part of his life. The master poet of Greece was Homer, and he was blind, and so was the epic poet of England, Milton. A man does not have to hear to make music, nor see to write. The Pilgrim's Progress was composed in a jail, as was the masterpiece of Spanish literature, Don Quixote. Invictus, one of the world's greatest poems, was written by a poor, bedridden invalid who spent a large part of his life in hospitals. Judge Moulan of the Municipal Court, of Cleveland, wrote his bar examination holding his pencil between his teeth. Michael Dowling, president of a bank in Minnesota, educated himself after losing both legs, his left arm and the fingers of his right hand, when he was fifteen years old. Such men have overcome more than physical handicaps, they have defeated the discouragement that is natural to men who are actually expected to live by beggary. Our duty is to get the man to see the importance of this re-education and re-adjustment for himself, family and nation. We must make him see it from every angle and discourage any objections he may raise. The great importance of this re-training, now is this: A few years hence people will have begun to hate the memory of war and the universal feeling toward a man will be, "Well, he's got his pension, that ought to be enough. Besides he had his opportunity to get training for special employment and he didn't take it." Then, too, the question of competition will come up. It will take a great deal of sympathy and firmness. There are two kinds of sympathy. One is dissolved in tears and the other treats the matter with firmness. There will be a tendency to bury our soldiers in sympathy, and to make heroes out of them. To spoil and pamper them would be like parents giving too much candy to their children. Parents who wish to do the best possible for their children, do not manifest affection by ruining their digestion and weakening moral forms; they rather seek to provide good home environment, kindly discipline and provide them with the very best educational opportunity. Sympathy should be of the stimulating kind that will have RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 453 for its purpose not relief of our own feelings but the good of the man who receives it. The returned soldier deserves the best we can give him, and that is to give him every opportunity and every assistance to become once more a useful man and therefore a self-respecting, self-supporting member of the community. The doxology was sung, and the benediction was pronounced by Mrs. Ruth May Fox, the First Counselor in the General Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. The Wednesday afternoon meeting was opened with congregational singing "Praise Ye the Lord." Prayer was offered by Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, after which a solo, "Fear not, ye of Israel" was sung by Mrs. Margaret Caine Patrick. The roll was called showing an attendance of 311 officers and Board members. Elder David O. McKay, of the Council of the Twelve, opened the afternoon session with an inspired address on the necessity and value of the teacher training work for Relief Society officers and class leaders. He emphasized the primal value of the Latter-day Saint spirit in the teaching of any subject in our auxiliary organizations. He said that a few years before the death of the late President Joseph F. Smith, President Smith, urged the need of more teachers and more efficient teaching in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Above all the professions in the world he had rated the profession of teacher as highest and had said: "We are a Church of teachers." "The very parents are teachers" Elder McKay continued; "so are the members of the Church auxiliary organizations and of the priesthood quorums. They are all teachers of the true philosophy of life, the true science of living — the gospel of Jesus Christ. No one of us would attempt to step into the school room and teach the smallest lesson in arithmetic or fundamental English without some preparation. And yet thousands of us are attempting to teach the science of living without such preparation. Philosophers have spent their lives, statesmen have put forth untold effort, trying to find this true science of life and yet we have it in the gospel in its fulness. But our knowing is one thing and our leading others to know is another. Our knowing it is the beginning, as we radiate our personality to others. With a view toward making more capable teachers in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, teacher training classes have been established. Some years ago this method of training teachers was adopted by the Sunday School organizations, and because of its success in some instances it has now been adopted in all the Church auxiliaries as a ward organization." Elder McKay then explained how every Sunday morning, if 454 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE possible, or at some other convenient time classes were to be held under the direction of the ward bishop with the first and second meeting given over to a lesson taught by the ward Sunday school superintendent on the art of teaching and the other two weekly sessions turned into department meetings of the various auxiliaries for adaptation of the lesson to their particular outlines. The speaker then explained the elements of a well outlined lesson, and ended with a tribute to the Relief Society mothers than whom he declared there were no more gracious teachers in the world. Dr. Alice Reynolds of the B. Y. U. gave a model lesson on the Book of Mormon, prefacing her remarks with the statement that the present is no time for lessons that are not full of vitality. Summary of Remarks Made on the Book of Mormon Lesson, May "Relief Society Magazine." All Christian people believe that God holds within his hands the destinies of nations and the world. Many people believe that the constitution of the United States is inspired because of its far-reaching results for good in many nations having liberal governments. The Latter-day Saints have the sure word of the Lord on this matter. The Book of Mormon tells us that Columbus was wrought upon by the Spirit of the Lord when he set sail for America; also that the Pilgrim fathers were led to this land under his divine guidance; a sure proof that men and groups of men work his will in accordance with his righteous principles. But to prove that such rule has prevailed in the past is of slight value if there is any doubt about the same law being in operation at present. This is the vitalizing process that must go on in all theological teaching. That it was is only vital because it still is. Elder Reed Smoot's experience on the memorable occasion when war was declared by the United States against Germany is to the point. Elder Smoot tells us that on the day of the Senate debate, that the plan was that he should close the debate with an address of about forty-five minutes. The debate wore on, and the unmistakable promptings of the Spirit to him were that he should put his debate aside and offer a prayer. The effect was instantaneous. From all parts of the world came letters of approval and congratulation. Among so many expressions something adverse might be expected, but nothing adverse came. Had Senator Smoot made the address contemplated it might have passed with the rest, without especial notice. In these things the Lord works on entirely natural principles. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 455 He took Columbus from the most forward nation of Europe and sent him to Spain, a nation destined to play a role of great power. There he received the political and financial backing so necessary for the success of his great venture. Mrs. Florence M. Cain of North Weber Stake spoke on home economics, declaring that the quality of the home was the quality of the nation; that it must connect up with current human activities that the best literature must be introduced into it: the best methods of sanitation, best equipment, best of food and the best of ventilation. She declared that all home economics work had but one purpose — the making of the best of citizenship, for God and for country. Mrs. Ethel R. Smith spoke of the genealogical study of surnames and told first of the eternal need of gospel truths and symbols, referring particularly to baptism for the dead. Then she spoke of the origin of the surname in England in the eleventh century from five great sources, patronymics, trades and occupations, localities, official titles and nicknames. She gave a spirited and perfect lesson, adapting the principles laid down in the Teacher's Training Course to her genealogical lesson with inspired words and pedagogical skill. After closing remarks by Counselor Clarissa Smith Williams and singing, the benediction was pronounced by Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Thursday morning the Relief Society held their general conference in the Assembly Hall at 10. After the beautiful organ prelude "Communion in E Minor" by Batiste, rendered by Organist Edna Coray, the congregation sang "Praise to the man." Mrs. Susa Young Gates offered prayer and the Relief Society choir sang "Jesus calls." President Emmeline B. Wells welcomed the sisters and said she felt grateful to be present, and prayed that the Holy Spirit might rest upon all those who should speak. Mrs. Mary J. Miller, of the Australian mission, told of the impossibility of holding Relief Society sessions in that mission because of long distances and expense of traveling. During the war, however, she said Relief Society women of that community had done much real Relief Society work and had been among the most patriotic people in the country. She told of how tithing had been paid by Church members from their soldier's pay on the front, and also described how on one occasion, a Bible being missing, a whole company of Australian soldiers had been sworn in on a Book of Mormon, the officer in charge justly taking a "Mormon's" word for it that the book was a sacred 456 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE one. She also told of how genealogical work was difficult to accomplish in Australia because of the fact that the Australians consider themselves too young as a people and have kept few records. Miss Sarah Eddington was the next speaker. She presented the following resolution: "Resolved, that we join with the general social advisory committee in establishing a weekly half-holiday in all communities with the aim of securing a love and reverence for the sacred Sabbath Day." The resolution was adopted unanimously by the congregation. Miss Eddington referred to the many instances in sacred history from the beginning of the world when the sacred rest day on the Sabbath was emphasized, until the time when the Savior himself placed a binding commandment on all humanity in regard to its strict observance. She spoke of how the observance of the Sabbath had strengthened economically all the nations which had adhered to it, and how the ignoring of the law had been the downfall of others. The weekly half-holiday, she declared, was most necessary and she quoted comments of scientists to the effect that Americans flatter themselves on playing more than any other nation, but in reality they merely pay to see others work at play. She commented on the vast silences in America— no singing in the wheat fields, no singing by audiences in churches, and dumb crowds in the theatres, and she made a plea that grown-ups themselves learn the art of healthful play with all its freshening exhilaration. Mrs. Lillian Richards, nurse in charge of the O. S. L. War Service department, spoke of nursing in epidemics. She referred to the recent influenza epidemic and spoke of its predicted recurrence this fall, urging her hearers to take every precaution to fight the disease. She explained that few dangerous maladies strike suddenly with a severe pain but that they came as an ordinary cold or other ailment and that while in this stage they are usually most contagious. She urged the use of simple first-aid remedies in the home until a doctor could be summoned and urged implicit following out of a doctor's instructions. These instructions, she said, are usually so simply given that they could be carried out by a child. She urged isolation of disease suspects and declared that all prophylactic measures advocated by the State Board of Health should be given hearty cooperation. The pioneers, a clean people coming to a clean land with plenty of ventilation and room, had not known the diseases of today, she pointed out, but immigration and crowded conditions had brought to the valley many maladies from many nations. She especially urged that, however helpful old fashioned remedies had proved, with the grandmothers of the community, the word RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 457 of scientists and doctors of today who had spent their lives in medical research must be taken in the treatment of present day illnesses. Sister Brewerton and the Relief Society choir sang "Teach me to pray." Counselor Clarissa Smith Williams gave some excellent instructions on various Relief Society problems. She referred to the need of punctuality in opening and closing our meetings. She explained to the sisters that it would be as easy and as difficult to reach the hall at 10 o'clock and be on time as at 11 o'clock, and referred to the loss of time for many people through the lack of punctuality on the part of a few. She said the women have it in their power to say when meetings and social gatherings shall open and close, and instead of allowing our young people to open their parties at ten o'clock and later, coming home at 4 o'clock in the morning, we should insist on decent hours and those hours being observed. She gave that thought to the sisters present as a mission. She spoke of the difficulty experienced in some of the wards in securing good class teachers, and felt that this condition would be improved as time went on. The lessons are adapted to the average society and class teacher, and are not prepared for the very best educated nor for those with the least opportunities in this direction. Those who had better educational facilities would add to the lesson, while those who had but few, could get something at least from the effort put forth to understand subjects treated in the guide. She urged the necessity of securing the Surname Book, in order to understand the surname lessons given in The Magazine and suggested that where class leaders or ward officers felt the need of more text books, in other lesson work and had the means to purchase them, they should apply to our General Secretary who would furnish them with a list of such books. The object had been in not recommending too many text books, to lessen possible expense for our wards who had spent so much money in the recent two years of war work. The fact that some stake secretaries come to meeting unprepared with minutes and roll was deplored by the speaker. She urged the necessity of full and complete preparations for all conference meetings. Committees should be appointed, and each part of the program should be in readiness before the time of opening meetings. The speaker urged the necessity of preserving all circular letters and other official correspondence by stake secretaries. Such letters and papers should be located in a convenient place where they may be accessible to new and old officers as well as to class leaders. She advised the sisters to preserve their Magazine, as it contained much advice and instructions from time to time for the benefit of all concerned. 458 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Puzzling problems of increase in attendance at meetings was always an every day problem. Personal visiting sometimes was very effective. An occasional social function helps; placing some little duty or responsibility on members who attend rarely will occasionally encourage women to become faithful meeting goers. Ward choirs will always attract those who love music, and music is its own best reward. Our music book will be in readiness very shortly now, and will be a very great asset in the developing and maintaining of interest in our ward meetings. The question has been asked, What may wards do which have no need for charity funds? Shall they be gathered and used for other purposes? Sister Williams answered that where charity funds have been collected for charity purposes they should not be used for anything else as there is an obligation upon those who collect funds for one thing, and that such funds shall not be used for other purposes; but if the teacher suggests to those who donate in such wards that they give their means for general purposes this can be used in such other directions as the ward officials may desire and the ward members vote upon. Stake presidents will find it to their interest and benefit to appoint secretaries who live in the same town with themselves as this will expedite correspondence and the general labor of the stake. She recommended that no Relief Society officer should hold office in other organizations, where possible to avoid it. There should be no duplication of officers as there are always women who could qualify, if given an opportunity, to occupy all the offices in the various organizations. In closing, Sister Williams encouraged the sisters and blessed them for the splendid work they have performed during the season just passed. Mrs. Julina L. Smith, second Counselor to Mrs. Wells, spoke of the necessity of keeping one's word to children. She deplored the fact that many of the boys enrolled in the national service had come home confirmed cigarette smokers; declared that no one could find anything worth while which the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints had not embodied in its work, and in speaking of strict adherence to gospel principles, she said that many of the Saints had been called, but how many would be chosen? Mrs. Emily S. Richards referred to the passage in Congress of the Women Suffrage Bill and offered the following resolution, which was seconded by Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, and carried by a rising vote of the congregation: To Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, President National Woman's Suffrage Association, New York City, — The General Board and officers of the Relief Society representing 50,000 voting women in conference assembled voice our joy and gratitude in the final triumph of equal suffrage which Congress has just granted to RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 459 the women of this Nation. We congratulate the noble women of our Nation who have led this valiant fight. The day-dawn of Woman's star is in the East. Thank God our Utah delegation voted right. Singing "There is a land" by Relief Society choir and Mrs. Eva Aird. Benediction Emily S. Richards. Organ postlude, "Triumphal March," from Gideon, by Organist Edna Coray. Thursday afternoon as the congregation were assembling, Miss Coray played Handel's Largo. The choir, with Sisters Brewerton, Patrick and Aird sang beautifully, "I have waited for the Lord." Prayer was offered by Dr. Romania B. Penrose. George D. Pyper, accompanied by the choir sotto-voce, sang "The little bird," with charming effect. After a few introductory remarks by Counselor Williams, Elder Anthony W. Ivins of the Council of the Twelve, delivered a scholarly address on the Book of Mormon, followedtion. by President Heber J. Grant who next addressed the congrega Both these sermons will be publishe d in full in the next number of the Magazine. The choir B. Wells sang, "O Love Divine" and President Emmeline then said, PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS. I am sure that you all feel satisfied with the information we have received here this afternoon, both in what the apostles have said to us and in the power of God President which inspired their utterances. Ithink I have known both Grant and Elder Ivins from their infancy. I hope what we have heard may sink deep into our hearts, and that we may ever remember this day, and that we may remember what has been said, too, so that we may tell it to our neighbors who have not been with us. All of you who have come from the country, go home and tell what a wonderful meeting we have had this afternoon. I pray with all my heart that the Lord will bless you and keep you in the faith, because there are many trials and adversities that sometimes tempt us to go astray or to do those things that we have to repent of afterwards. I want to tell you by way of history that I have been in the Church now 77 years, the first day of last March. I was baptized in a little brook in the hemlock grove on my mother's land, in the state of Massachussetts, and I have never doubted once since that time. I think I may say with all propriety, that 460 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I have never doubted; that I knew the Prophet Joseph intimately and well; that I have sung" for him, and recited for him, and he has patted me on the head when I was quite a young girl. I feel that if I should never meet you again that I shall certainly meet you in the hereafter. I pray that the Lord will bless to you the events of this conference, and bless you in your own homes, that you may be faithful and prayerful at all times, and then he will preserve within you the testimony of the truth of the gospel and the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I well remember the transfiguration of Brigham Young, when the people stood up in the grove, all with one accord, and declared that he was the Prophet Joseph Smith risen from the dead, which I witnessed standing in a wagon. I think that that has been one of the greatest things that has ever happened in this Church. And may the Lord bless you and comfort you, and keep you faithful, and may you teach this gospel to your children and grand-children and great-grand-children unto the third and fourth generation, that they may know as you know it that the Prophet Joseph was sent of God, that he was maintained in his purity to the day of his death. The day that the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum were martyred you can never imagine, and when they brought forth the bodies to Nauvoo, the heavens wept, the rain poured down in torrents, and it was truly a morning that I can never forget. May the Lord bless us and bring us again to the next conference to rejoice in Him, I ask, in the name of Jesus, our Savior, Amen. After singing by the Choir, President E. B. Wells, with her Counselors on each side of her, pronounced the following benediction: We thank thee, O God, our Father, at the conclusion of this meeting for thy blessings upon us during this conference. We pray thee, our Father, at this time to pour out thy blessings upon this congregation, that they may go away with their hearts enlightened, and that we may feel that the Lord has been with us; and that we may triumph in all we do and in all we.say, and that we may have Thy joy and Thy peace in our hearts, and that everything may be well with us on our return home, that we may find everything satisfactory; and those who have come from a distance, may they have no accident befall them and no harm come to them, but that they may go home rejoicing in the Spirit of the Lord and in that which has been said to us this day by the holy priesthood, by the man wo has" been appointed to preside over the Church, and an apostle who has been speaking unto us this afternoon the words of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 461 life and salvation. Pour out Thy tender mercies upon us at this time, and accompany us to our homes, and be with us in our homes; and may we teach our children and grandchildren and all those around us the words of God as spoken by the Prophet Joseph Smith and his successor Brigham Young, and those who have succeeded him down until the present time. May we be faithful to him all our lives, each of us, and true to the priesthood and to the Church, and true to the women who stand with us in our organizations. And we pray Thee, our Father, now in all humility that Thou wilt pour out upon us the rich blessings of heaven throughout our lives, each one of us, and on all Thy people everywhere scattered abroad in the earth. And we ask these blessings, our Father, in the worthy name of Thy Son Jesus Christ. Amen. THE GENEALOGICAL CONFERENCE. The Genealogical conference was held under auspices of the General Board of the Relief Society, Monday, June 9, in the class rooms of the Genealogical Society of Utah. Twenty-six stakes were represented and a most interested and pleased congregation crowded the rooms, both for the morning and afternoon sessions. The meetings were under the charge of Chairman of the Genealogical Committee of the General Board, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and there were present during the sessions: Counselor Clarissa S. WiUiams, Counselor Julina L. Smith, Carrie S. Thomas, Elizabeth C. Crismon, Edna May Davis, nette Smith Kesler. Sarah McLelland, Lillian Cameron, and Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler. At the morning session, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas treated the subject of the importance of genealogy study as related to the temple work for the dead. She emphasized the need of accurate information and of the value of methods taught in the genealogical classes during the past few years. She referred to the crowded attendance at the temples and felt the Relief Society had been instrumental in awakening and sustaining interest in the temple work, through their study of genealogy and the preparation of records, as well as by their own desire to take part in this glorious work. Miss Lillian Cameron spoke on the necessity of instructing people in the fundamentals of all our genealogical study which is found in the lesson book published by the Genealogical Society of Utah. She told in detail the steps followed in these lessons, and explained how they answered the many and confusing questions which reach her in her position as Assistant 462 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Librarian in the Genealogical Society. People ask, "What can I do to get hold of my temple work and to begin my labor for the dead?" These questions are all answered in our lesson book, and in the lessons provided in the Relief Society Magazine. She urged the many delegates present to feature the primary lessons everywhere as only a scattered few of the Saints have recently learned the A, B, C of this work. The speaker explained the necessity for the Relief Societies everywhere continuing" tlie work of making out surname index cards, and she exhibited three styles of cards used in the index cabinet of the society indexes. The white one, indicating the surname card, the blue card is held in library index for research which may have gone outside of library for family history. Red represents the reseach work in library. Miss Mary E. Downey, the State Librarian, gave an exhibition of the value and importance of libraries through the state. She explained in some detail the method of cataloguing as found in all up-to-date libraries. The Dewey decimal system was the plan by which all books were classified and arranged especially were three particular pages illuminative of the speakers lecture. Miss Downey urged the delegates present to render their aid in establishing community libraries, in every county. All persons who have magazines or books which are not in use in the homes should be invited to contribute them to the use of the town library for there they become of permanent value and of wide interest and use. In the discussion which followed, the delegate from Boise, Idaho, created a mild sensation by stating that in the Idaho state library, all our "Mormon" books are classed as non-Christian books. Singing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet." Benediction by Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon. The afternoon session was opened by the usual exercises. Mrs. Susa Young Gates introduced Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, of the Council of the Twelve, as the speaker of the day, and he delivered the following discourse: ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH. After I came here today I opened my Bible for a text, and here is what I opened to. "For ofasGod. the sons many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are "For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 463 fear; but ye have received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father. "The children are the Spirit ofitself God beareth: witness with our spirit, that we "And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ; if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified tog"ether. "For I reckon that the suffering's of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. "For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God." (Rom. 8:14-19.) Now this brings to my mind some matters that I think are very important to us in connection with temple work. Paul here is speaking to the Roman saints who had received the gospel. He could not speak to those not of the Church and say this. It applies to us in this dispensation as it applied to the saints in the primitive church. It is true, as Paul declared to the Athenians, as he stood on Mars' Hill, that w eare the offspring of God. You know when he came to Mars' Hill, and saw the Athenians there discussing all manner of doctrine and seeing altars that had been erected to their various gods, for they believed in many gods, he discovered one that was erected "to the unknown God." And when Paul was given the privilege of speaking, he declared to tho.se Greeks, that the God whom they ignorantly worshiped he represented and so declared "unto them: The unknown God — unknown, of course, to the Greeks — the God of Israel, was not worshiped as an image made by men's hands, of gold or silver or stone, but He is our Father. He referred to the writings of their own poets, who.said: "For we are also his offspring." That is true, for the children,of our Father who dwell upon the face of the earth, are the offspring of God in the spirit. We read here in the Doctrine and Covenants, in Sec. 76, where the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon declare: "For we saw him, [Christ] even on the right hand of God, and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father — That by him and through him, and of him the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." Paul has another meaning, deeper, grander, greater than the universal application of the term of son to father or daughter to father, as it is expressed in these passages of scripture to which I have referred, for he says, "As many as are led by the Spirit of God, are the sons of God." Now how are we going to become the sons of God. and ot course daughters as well? How is it done? Can we become 464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the sons and heirs of our eternal Father simply by being baptized for the remission of our sins after we have repented and have had faith, and have had hands laid upon us for the gift of the Holy Ghost, and have come into the Church? No, it takes more than that. Why, of course they are the children of our Father in heaven, those who do that, as are the people who are outside of the Church; but to become the sons and daughters of God as it is declared here, children, "heirs, heirs of God and joint-heirs with Christ," we must suffer with him, that we may be glorified with him. In other words, we must receive in our hearts, accept in our hearts, every principle of the gospel which has been revealed; and in so far as it is in our power to do so, we must live in accordance with these principles and keep the commandments of God in full. I was up north in one of our stakes not many weeks ago, and I suppose I left some of the people feeling somewhat disturbed in their feelings, because one of the good brethren up there stated after I got through speaking, "If what Brother Smith says is true, then who can be saved?" And "I don't know" is the way he expressed it to one of the brethren, "whether I can make it or not." I think it is about time that the Latter-day Saints in the stakes of Zion who have had the gospel preached to them for so many years were being informed of the fact that it is not possible, as some of us have supposed, for us to slip along easily through this life, keeping the commandments of the Lord indifferently, accepting some of the doctrines and not others and indulging our appetites or desires and because we consider them little things, failing to understand and comprehend our duty in relation to them, and then expect to receive a fulness of glory in the kingdom of God: I so expressed myself to those good people up there, telling them that they were the best people in the world, but good as they were they were not good enough. And so I say to you, you are good people. The people in the stakes from whence you came are good people. The people who are here are good people, who are Latter-day Saints. But I say, we are not good enough, and never will be good enough until we learn to keep all of the commandments of God. Now if we want to become heirs, joint-heirs with Jesus Christ, possessing the blessings of the kingdom, there is only one thing required of you and of me, and that is that we keep the whole law, not a part of it only. Do you think it would be fair, just, proper, for the Lord to say to us, "I will give unto you commandments; you may keep them if you will; you may be indifferent about the matter if you will; keep some, reject others; or partially keep some, and I will punish you, but then I will make it up to you, and all will be well." Shall we feel RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 465 as the Prophet in the Book of Mormon says the people in this dispensation would, when he said: There shall also be many which shall say, Eat, drink, and be merry; nevertheless, fear God, he will justify in committing a little sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this. And do all these things, for tomorrow we die: and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God. * * * And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal security, that they will say, All is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth, all is well; and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell." (II Nephi 28:8, 21.) Let me call your attention to a glorious promise. If you want to become heirs, sons and daughters, and partake of the blessings which our Redeemer partakes of, then you must be willing to receive every word that proceeds from the mouth of our Father in heaven. And here is the promise: "And who overcome by faith, and are sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, which the Father sheds forth upon all those who are just and true. They are they who are the Church of the first born. They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things." (Doc. and Cov. 76:53-55.) Would it be reasonable for us to suppose that through our belief on the Lord, repentance of our sins, and our baptism, and the laying on of hands, by which we become members of the Church, and then stopping there, we would be entitled to all things in the Father's kingdom? Let me read further: "They are they who are Priests and Kings, who have received of his fulness and of his glory, and are priests of the Most High, after the order of Melchizedek, which was after the order of Enoch, which was after the order of the Only Begotten Son; wherefore, as it is written, they are Gods, even the sons of God; wherefore all things are theirs, whether life or death, or things present, or things to come, all are theirs and they are Christ's and Christ is God's; and they shall overcome all things. (Doc. and Cov. 76:56-60.) Now that is the promise that is made in that great revelation known as the Vision. I read now from section 84: "And he that receiveth my Father, receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him; and this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the priesthood. Therefore, all those who receive the priesthood receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved. But whoso breaketh this 466 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE covenant, after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come." The Lord has revealed unto us in the dispensation of the fulness of times that there are many blessings in store for his children, both in this life and in the life to come, providing we are willing to observe the laws of his kingdom. The scriptures declare, as you will read in the Book of Mormon, Alma, thirty-fourth chapter and beginning at the 32nd verse: "Behold, this life is the time for men to repent to prepare to meet God; yea, behold the day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors. And now, as I said unto you before, as ye have had so many witnesses, therefore I beseech of you, that ye do not procrastinate the day of your repentance until the end; for after this day of life, which is given us to prepare for eternity, behold if we do not improve our time while in this life, then cometh the night of darkness, wherein there can be no labor performed. Ye cannot say, when ye are brought to that awful crisis, that I will repent, that I will return to my God. Nay, ye cannot say this, for that same spirit which doth possess your bodies at the time that ye go out of this life, that same spirit will have power to possess your bodies in that eternal world; for behold if ye have procrastinated the day of your repentance, even until death, behold ye have become subjected to the spirit of the devil, and he doth seal you his; therefore the Spirit of the Lord hath withdrawn from you and hath no place in you; and this is the final state of the wicked." Now is that according to the teachings that you have received all along? These people to whom Alma was speaking had heard the truth, and were not altogether ignorant of the plan of salvation, because they had gone out of the Church by apostasy. So he declared unto them that this is the day for them to repent and turn unto God or they would be lost. Now, as I stated before reading that passage, the Lord had given unto us privileges and blessings, and the opportunity of entering into covenants, accepting ordinances that pertain to our salvation beyond what is preached in the world, beyond the principles of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance from sin and baptism for the remission of sins and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost; and these principles and covenants are received nowhere else but in the temple of God. If you would become a son or a daughter of God, and heirs of the kingdom, then you must go to the house of the Lord and receive blessings which there can be obtained, and which cannot be obtained elsewhere, and keep those commandments and those covenants to the end. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 467 I am going to speak a word in plainness, because I think you brethren and sisters have been through the temple. These ordinances you received and covenants are sacred. When you go to the house of the Lord, and make covenants and enter into ordinances and receive the blessings of that house, it is expected that you observe and keep those instructions and commandments as they are given unto you, and it is not within your power when you come out to alter or change. I said I was going to speak plainly. I attended a banquet not long ago, and sat by the side of a sister who was married in the temple, and she has a husband who is prominent in public life. That woman came to that entertainment with a waist on that did not cover her body, and if she had any garments on they did not have any sleeves more than just a little lace that came down just below the shoulder, and the same with that part which was intended to cover the breast. And I was ashamed. Not long ago I attended a wedding reception — and I would like the guilty parties who were there to know what I am about to say — there were present some young ladies who were married in the temple of God, and had received the garment there intended to be a covering for their bodies, yet they came out in what is called, I believe, full dress, no sleeves, cut down in the front, I suppose, as far as they dare cut it out, and the same in the back. And why did they do it? Because they think, I judge — now I am guessing at it, for I don't know why they do those things, unless this is the reason — because they think that men delight to look upon their nakedness; decent men do not! There may be some creatures that do, but virtuous men do not. And those girls who were there had been through the temple, to my knowledge, and came to that reception like that. They should have received a rebuke from their father, who was present, and I heard of no rebuke. I wanted to get away from the place just as quickly as I could. That is the way I felt, the way it impressed me. Now, do you think for one minute that we can go through the temple and make covenants, that we will do certain things, with the promise made to us that if we will do these things the Lord will receive us into his kingdom, not as aliens, not as strangers, not as servants, but he will receive us into that kingdom, with open arms as sons and daughters in very deed; and then we can go off after receiving these covenants from the house of the Lord, and alter and change and break those covenants to suit our fancy and what we consider our convenience because we desire to follow the customs and fashion of a sinful world; and then expect the promised blessing? There is another passage of scripture, in the Doctrine and Covenants, wherein the Lord says like this: 468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Whom am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled? I command, and a man obeys not, I revoke and they receive not the blessing. Then they say in their hearts, This is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled. But wo unto such, for their reward lurketh beneath, and not from above." (Doc. and Cov. 58:31-33.) Now these people go into the temple; instruction is given them there that these ordinances are sacred and holy, and must be kept. They raise their hands, and they enter into a covenant that they will observe and keep these covenants which they receive in the house of the Lord, and straightway they go out, and, like the man that James speaks of who looked into the glass, saw his face, and then went away and forgot what manner of man he was, so do they. I say unto you the Lord is not bound, unless you keep the covenant. I have read from the scriptures here that he cannot break it. The Lord never breaks his covenant. When he makes a covenant with one of us he will not break it. If it is going to be broken, we will break it. But when it is broken he is under no obligation to give us the blessing, and we shall not receive it. There are people who go into the house of the Lord, and receive covenants which are based on faithfulness, who go out and they are unfaithful, shall they not receive their reward? So I repeat, if you want to become sons and daughters, you must go to the temple and receive the blessings given there, and then keep them; and you cannot become sons and daughters unless you do go to the house of the Lord. Here is a fact that I think is overlooked very largely by many who go to the temple and perform work there day after day, and that is this: the ordinances of the temple in the main, the endowment and sealings, pertain to salvation in the celestial kingdom, where the sons and daughters are. The sons and daughters are not outside, in some other kingdom. The sons and daughters go into the house, belong to the household, have access to the home. "In my house are many mansions." Sons and daughters have access to the home where he dwells, and you cannot receive that access until you go to the temple. Why? Because you must receive certain keywords as well as make covenants by which you are able to enter. If you try to get into the house, and the door is locked, how are you going to enter, if you haven't your key? You get your key in the temple, which will admit you. I picked up a key on the street one day, and took it home, and it opened every door in my house. You can't find a key on the street, for that key is never lost, that will open the door that enters into our Father's mansions. You have got to go where the key is given. And each can obtain the key if he will, but after receiving it you may lose it by having it taken away from you again, unless you abide by the agreement RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 469 which you entered into when you went to the House of the Lord. Now I repeat, because I want to impress it upon you, that the ordinances of the temple pertain to the celestial kingdom. And yet there are some of us who have the idea fixed in our minds that every soul living upon this earth and who has not received them, must receive all the ordinances of the house of the Lord, and we must do the work for them. That is not the case, because I read in the scriptures, in the writings of Paul as well as in the writings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that in the telestial kingdom the people who enter there, are so innumerable that they are compared to the sands of the sea that cannot be counted; and those who enter the next kingdom are innumerable; and those who enter the celestial kingdom are a select few comparatively. Yet the privilege is given to every soul to receive this glory. We are not going to bring all the dead into the celestial kingdom. They will receive such ordinances as they are able to obey. It is our duty to go into the temple and do the work for the dead, because we are not the judges, and the Lord will decide just how these things will be, and he will decide just how much each individual is entitled to. Those who receive the fulness will be privileged to view the face of our Father. There will not be such an overwhelming number of the Latter-day Saints who will get there. President Francis M. Lyman many times has declared, and he had reason to declare, I believe, that if we save one-half of the Latter-day Saints, that is, with an exaltation in the celestial kingdom of God, we will be doing well. Not that the Lord is partial, not that he will draw the line as some will say, to keep people out. He would have every one of us go in if we would; but there are laws and ordinances that we must keep; if we do not observe the law we cannot enter. Many come into the Church, like fish that are gathered into the net, that have to be sorted and thrown out again or put into piles where they belong. And so it will be with us. The Savior compared the kingdom, in other words, the Church, to ten virgins, five of whom were wise and five of whom were foolish; and so we must not get the understanding that because we are members of the Church it is all well with us, and our salvation is secure; that is, our exaltation is secure. It is not so. We must continue to the end, we must obey the commandments. We must keep the ordinances. We must receive covenants, sealings, the sealing power, and privileges which are obtained in the temple of the Lord, and then live in accordance with them. That we must do. Every little while some good sister or brother comes to the authorities of the Church, or authorities of one of the temples, and wants to have work done for some member of the family or some friend who has been in the Church but turned against 470 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the truth and went out into the world again and died with bitter feelings toward this latter-day work. Then they come in and say their friend has been dead ten years, or twenty years, and they want to do his work. O I wish we could destroy the idea that is in the minds of some that we can live in righteousness and actually turn against the truth, and then our children will come along after we are dead and have the work done for us, and all will be lovely, and we will receive the blessings. The Lord is the judge of all men, and if such a person is entitled to receive any blessings he will get them. But read Section 76 of the Doctrine and Covenants in regard to those who enter into the terrestrial kingdom, and see what it says. Why, if the honorable men of the earth who receive not the gospel in this life when they have the chance, are consigned to that kingdom, are we going to have it within our power to act for the apostate, the man who is bitter in his soul, who has known the truth, but has turned away from the light and rejected the gospel, and go into the house of the Lord and pull him into the celestial kingdom? If you think so, I have a very different view. And yet that doctrine prevails in the minds of some. Why? Very largely, I think, because the privilege has in some instances been granted in the past to people to go and have work done of that kind. I am not criticising them but I want to tell you a little experience. A woman came into the office, in the old President's office here, to President Smith, when I happened to be there, with just such a case as that. She wanted work done for a person who had rejected the gospel, he had been in the Church, had received covenants, but had gone out of the Church and ridiculed it; denying the faith and making light of the doctrines although he was never bitter; and she wanted to know after he had been dead so many years if his work could not be done in the temple. The privilege was granted. When the woman had gone I said, "I want a little understanding on this. You are acquainted with that which the Lord has said in Section 76 of the Doctrine and Covenants in regard to this, and you are familiar with the fact that the ordinances of the house of the Lord, particularly that of sealing" — and that is what she was particular about — "pertains to the celestial kingdom; how in the world can you, knowing these things, grant a woman the privilege of having that work done in the temple for this man who has lived in the manner she has stated to you?" His answer was in substance that he knew what the Lord has said, and much of the work that is done in the temples will be void because of the unworthiness of those for whom it is done. But we cannot judge, we leave it in the hands of the Lord, and he will assign to all people that portion which they are entitled to receive, and it satisfies the woman that this work may be done, and she goes away feeling better because it RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 471 is done. I said, "yes, but if she goes away feeling that it is alright with that man, and that he can come back into the Church, and is bound for the celestial kingdom, and then when they get on the other side and see that it is not the case, is it not rather an injury than a blessing?" They have in the Catholic church the doctrine of indulgences, and you will remember you have read in history how during the middle ages particularly, a man by paying the price could receive the privilege, so far as the Church could give it— there was no power in it— to go out and sin; even before the sin was committed, and have promise of forgiveness. They sold these indulgences. That is one of the main things that took Martin Luther out of the Catholic church, because he began to realize that the thing was wrong, it was not possible, not just or right for a person to sell forgiveness of sins for a price, either before or after the sin; and they used to do that. If a man wanted to go out and sin, they had a schedule of prices, so Motley tells in in his Rise of the Dutch Republic. In the Catholic church they offer prayers for the dead to get them out of purgatory. And people pay the priests to pray for the dead. Now that is a corruption of the doctrine of salvation for the dead. I can see confronting us a danger, and a very serious danger, because some of our people are of the opinion that the work can be done for them or their relatives after they are dead, so it is not so necessary for them to be righteous here and when they die they shall receive that work in its fulness; and the necessary ordinances will be performed for them in the Temple which will entitle them to the full reward of the faithful. The tendency is to cause men and women to live lives of unrighteousness, with indifference to the gospel, with the idea in their minds that when they are gone their children will do the work, and they shall receive the blessing. This is pernicious doctrine! I heard a man say, "I am not good enough to go into the temple of the Lord. I have my faults, I have my appetites that I acquired before I ever heard of the gospel. I am not good enough to go into the temple, but when I am dead, then my children can go in and do the work." Now I have read to you the scripture. I think it is the word of God "with the bark on it," where the prophet of the Lord declared unto apostates and those who have heard the gospel that if they did not repent and come into the Church now, in this day of repentance, but continued to procrastinate their repentance unto the end, that the night would come when no work could be done for them, and their souls would be lost. I think that is pretty good scripture. I don't know how the Lord could do otherwise in justice. Now, mark you, I am not saying that there are not people who have come into the Church, and gone out of it again, who did not understand the truth, and the Lord will make allowance, and 472 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of course, he is going to judge every case? I cannot judge. I am speaking now generally; I have no individual case in mind. But the fact is, nevertheless, the Lord has declared what we must do to receive the fulness of the gospel, and become sons and daughters. He has told us which class of people will enter into his kingdom. He has told us which people will enter into the third kingdom, and we have the privilege of choosing which kingdom it will be. Now I have not said more than a third of what I had in mind, but I have another meeting, and so will have to close. But let me say in conclusion: You cannot neglect little things. "O, a cup of tea is such a little thing. It is so little, surely it doesn't amount to much; surely the Lord will forgive me if I drink a cup of tea." Yes, he will forgive you, because he is going to forgive every man who repents; but, my brethren, if you drink coffee or tea, or take tobacco, do not let a cup of tea or a little tobacco stand in the road and bar you from the celestial kingdom of God, where you might otherwise have received a fulness of glory. "O, it is such a little thing, and the Lord will forgive us." Well, there isn't anything that is little in the way of sinning. There isn't anything that is little in this world in the aggregate. One cup of tea, then it is another cup of tea and another cup of tea, and when you get them all together they are not so little. As we learned in the Primary: "Little drops of water, little grains of sand Make the mighty ocean and the pleasant land." What is a grain of sand? and yet the earth is composed of just such things as that. Not long ago I was riding in an automobile. Something went wrong with it, and it refused to go. The man was an expert who was driving, but I didn't have much time. I left matters till I hardly had time to get to the train, which was thirty miles away. We went all over his machine, every wire was in contact, everything was just so, he couldn't find a thing in it that was wrong, and yet he couldn't make it go. "Well," I said to him, "here, you have done everything you know but one. There is just one thing now that I want you to do: open up your carburetor, and let out a little gas I believe it has water in it." He let it run off, and closed the valve again, and the auto went off immediately. But a little water in the carburetor was such a little thing, just a few drops, but they were in the road and they stopped the progress and nearly cost me reaching that train. Suppose we call that train salvation, could you afford to let a little thing like that stand between you and your salvation? Now, the Lord has said unto us, if you will receive these blessings you must keep the commandments. Now we must not RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES. 473 say like the young man did to the Savior, "which?" because all means all of them. In conclusion, I will say; to become sons and daughters of God, you must keep the law; you must go to the temple of the Lord, receive your blessings, enter into covenants and observe them. And likewise the Lord will grant these privileges unto our dead who are worthy to receive them, and therefore we labor for the dead. They must be saved as well as we. They cannot be saved without us, and we cannot be saved without them. Their salvation depends upon our salvation; our salvation depends upon them, that is, all who are entitled to salvation, and God is not going to save every man and woman in the celestial kingdom. If you want to get there, and you have failings, if you are committing sins, if you are breaking the commandments of the Lord and you know it, it is a good time right now to repent and reform, and not get the idea that it is such a little thing that the Lord will forgive you, just a few stripes, just a little punishment and we will be forgiven; for you may find yourselves cast out, if you insist and persist in such a course. Now, the Lord bless you, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. At the close of Elder Smith's remarks, Counselors Clarissa Smith Williams and Julina L. Smith spoke briefly, emphasizing the points made by the speaker especially dwelling upon the need of the sisters wearing their garments as taught in the temples. Closing remarks were made by Susa Young Gates. Benediction was pronounced by Miss Sarah McClelland. Tomb, thou shalt not hold him longer! Death is strong, but life is stronger. Stronger than the dark, the light. Stronger than the wrong, the right. A flea and a fly in a flue Were encaptured. Now what could they do? "Let us flee," said the fly, "Let us fly," said the flea; So they flew through a flaw in the flue. MRS. CLAWSON AS A BRIDE. Reminiscences of Margaret Gay Judd Clawson. (Continued.) Oh, what gloomy feelings we all had! The heavens were weeping and so was I. It seemed to me the sun would never rise again. And to add to our discomfort those stupid teamsters had dumped all of our things outside of the shanty instead of on the inside. It didn't make much difference, for it rained inside as well as out. Well, the next morning the sun shone bright and things looked more cheerful, and I had plenty to do to occupy my time. There was the furniture to look after and arrange, clothing to be hung out to dry, and last, but not least, the cooking to be looked after all the time. There were thirteen in family. I think it was the first of June that we went there, and on the 19th of June Ellen had another little girl added to her family, which she named Lucy Ardelle. I promoted myself to head nurse. Ellen was easy to please and needed little attention, but the baby, oh my, but she was cross! In a short time her mother took entire care of her and I was discharged with thanks. We had many small trials. Often just as we got the food on the table and ready to eat, there would come up one of those REMINISCENCES OF MARGARET CLAWSON 475 horrid wind storms and pepper everything with dust. The shanty was very little protection, as the heat shrunk the boards and left great cracks. We had no use for individual butter plates, as we had to pass the butter dish around with a spoon in it— the only way we could use it. No cool cellar there. By the time we reached Provo, my son Rudger had just begun to walk, but creeping seemed so much easier that he preferred that way. Every day after I would get him cleaned up he would get down and creep right out on the ground and revel in dirt. In fact, it seemed to be his principal diet. It agreed with him alright, for he got fat on it. There was an old man there, brought from England by the Emigration Fund. His name was Robert Ferris. In some way, he fell into our hands, and was a fixture in our family as long as he lived. After Rudger was nine months old he had almost the whole care of him. We always called him "Grandpa." When he first came he could do little chores around the house but after a while as he grew older, he gave up everything to look after the "Babbey" as he called Rudger. He kept close watch that none of the other children came near him, or took any of his playthings. In fact, he would pilfer things and hide away for "his Babbey." He would sit and watch him play all day long, and say over and over again: "God bless that pretty face," and "God bless that pretty face; if he lives to be fifty he'll be a handsome young man." I never saw such idolatry. He could not bear to part with him at bed time and often begged me to let him sleep with him. As Rudger grew older he tired of so much attention, and would often tease him by hiding from him. Then there would be a commotion. Grandpa would come to me with tears streaming down his face, and say, "Oh, he is gone. I'll never see that pretty face again." Then I would have to go and find him and what rejoicing there would be. But with all his little pranks, Rudger was always glad to creep up into Grandpa's lap for protection of himself and playthings from the older children, for none dared to interfere then. When the baby was about three and a half years old I noticed Grandpa's appetite was failing, and he gradually began to get weak, but never kept to his bed. About two months later, one morning he did not get up as usual and I went to see why. He said he did not feel like getting up just then, so I took him nourishment, and all day long, time and time again, he would call out for that "God blessed pretty boy" to come and kiss him. Rudger would run in and kiss him, play around a little while, then run off again. Many times that day there would be the same call, and the same thing gone over, and that evening he died; only in bed one day. He was between eighty and ninety. I missed him 476 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE very much, for he not only took the entire care of Rudger but rocked the baby next to him. I don't remember just how long we had been in Provo (it seemed a century to me), when President Young sent forth the message that everybody could return to their homes. Oh, what joyful news, and how soon they took advantage of the privilege. The President had made arrangements with General Johnston that the army should pass through Salt Lake City without stopping. It seemed to me that the word had hardly gone forth before the return journey commenced. Our shanty was on the main road, and I really think that every wagon and every animal below Provo passed it. All day and all night we could hear the teams traveling, the lowing of cattle, the bleating of sheep, the squealing of pigs. Why, what did we care for the dust or the noise! It was the sweetest music I ever heard, for it said "Home, Sweet Home." Sousa could never touch me with half the thrilling effect. When we did get back to Salt Lake, oh, what a glorious sight! We had had little hope of ever seeing it again. The weeds in our yard (we had no grassy lawn at that time) were nearly waist high, and very luxuriant. How beautiful they looked to me, more lovely than the rarest flowers now. When we walked into the house, how can I describe my joy! It was so delightfully cool, after having lived an almost out-of-door life during the hot weather. The thick adobe walls, with windows that could be opened and closed, doors that could shut out the dust and noise. What pioneer comforts and conveniences we had in that loved home! The palace of the Doge could not compare with it for beauty and elegance. How truthfully and feelingly I could say that "Blessings follow sacrifice." The house we had left and which we returned to was called the "White House," on the hill. It belonged to President Brigham Young. It was located where now stands a handsome residence built by Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, now owned by P. T. Farnsworth. We went there by request of President Young in 1857; my husband was in his employment and was needed there to look after his interests. Rudger was born there; also a little girl named Lola who died when only seven weeks old. Our home that we had left when we moved up there was on First South Street, the site now covered by a large building called the Hooper block. This house was built in 1851. Stanley H. and Teresa (Birdie) were born there. I called her Birdie because she was such a winsome little thing, but I would advise mothers not to give children names other than their real ones. It saves much annoyance when the children are grown. From the White House we removed to a house on State street, south of the Gardo House. There is now a terrace built REMINISCENCES OF MARGARET CLAWSON 477 on the spot where our story and a half house, two rooms below and two above, then stood. A couple of wagon box bed-rooms in the back yard added to our comfort. Ellen and her children, myself and children occupied that house during the summer and fall. Sidney B. was born there. In the meantime my husband secured a home on the corner of South Temple and Third East streets. The house was built by Lorenzo Snow, in 1852, and is still in good condition at the present time, 1906. It was and is a good sized two story adobe house. The last of November, 1860, Ellen and myself took possession of this house and for thirty-three years it was my continuous home. Our husband, Hiram B. Clawson, having a great talent for remodelling houses, had in a short time made of it a most commodious and convenient home. He had altered and added to it until it was the roomiest and best arranged house for large companies of any in Salt Lake at that time. Many pleasant gatherings we have had there in those pioneer days, for sociability was the order of the day then. Dress and style came later, and when our children grew up many happy years were spent there, for no father ever took greater interest in his children's home pleasures than Bishop CLAWSON HOME, ON SOUTH TEMPLE AND THIRD EAST. 478 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Clawson did. Often and often the old homestead resounded with music and dancing, and innocent amusements, for the young are ever buoyant and hopeful. Oh, how beautiful is youth, and how little we appreciate it while it is in our grasp! Now, at seventy-five I fully realize it. A writer has said: "The young are never happy unless they are having pleasure; the old are happy when they are free from pain." How true! Thomas Alfred was the first born in the old homestead, then came Phebe, after her the twins, Mabel and Mamie, then Tessie, last, Gay; also two little nameless ones, a girl and a boy, making thirteen in all. Now but seven are left! Oh, how sorrowful are these trials to a mother's heart! How cruel to give up our loved ones! When my first little infant (the fourth child) was taken from me, I felt there could be no greater sorrow. Then my little three year old twin left me, and still another, my little five year old Gay. Oh, how lonely and desolate I was! None but a mother knows the anguish of parting with her prattling, little ones. But my great irreparable loss came years later when my devoted, loving daughter and companion Teresa (Birdie) was taken away. How kind and considerate of my feelings she always was! What lovely qualities she possessed! I try to think that her leaving us was for the best, but I wish I knew it. Can I ever think it is for the best? Oh, how I miss her sweet companionship to this day! I feel that I ought not to complain, for no mother ever had a more dutiful, devoted, affectionate family than my children that are left. They vie with each other in kindness to me, but her place can never be filled. My best and greatest wish is that their children may be to them what mine are to me. A few years ago I had quite a serious sickness. Oh, what kindness my children manifested, what anxiety they all felt for my recovery! It repaid me for all suffering, to feel and know their devotion. I can say, as my mother often said in her last sickness, "Oh, what would I do without my children!" Another great cause for thankfulness is that all my family live close around me, within five minutes walk of my home, now on State Street and Canyon Road. How often it has been my delight, to have my children and grandchildren home to Christmas dinners! Nothing gave me greater pleasure than cooking for this holiday reunion. What is more lovely than a united family? For the last two or three years I have not been in a position to gather in my family at those good, old fashioned Christmas dinners that I almost yearly gave. It is a source of great regret to me, although I am visited by them all with love and best wishes on that day and given many presents, and invited to take dinner with one or another, as Christmas comes around. How many good things I could tell of my children, but REMINISCENCES OF MARGARET CLAWSON 479 they are living their lives, and will be known by their acts. How well I remember some of their youthful pranks! From the time Stanley could walk, he was a perfect little water fowl, and never had dry clothes on from the time he commenced playing out in the spring until winter. Our water ditches, running in the streets, gave him such good opportunities. He is now a big water fowl and enjoys it just the same. And then his propensities for taking long walks alone kept me pretty busy. He was also very fond of playing on ant hills. He took a walk to his grandmother's one day when only three years old and could not tell his name. She lived nearly a mile from us. He loved her very much, as she had taken a great deal of care of him and was a very indulgent grandmother. Mother was quite alarmed seeing him all alone, but had him brought home before I missed him. When Stanley was about six years old he had a very narrow escape from drowning. It was in City Creek. He, with some other little boy, was playing around the water, when he fell in and had it not been for a larger boy who got a long stick and reached it out to him, he would have drowned; but he grabbed the stick and was dragged ashore. He did not come home for several hours after for fear I would punish him for getting wet all over. I discovered he had been in the water. He then told me (as best he could) that "Oiler Young" got him out. In a day or two, we found out all about it, that it was Royal B. Young who had saved his life, and for that heroic deed Stanley's father gave Royal a brand new butcher knife in a scabbard, on a belt to wear around his waist. A prouder boy than Royal never lived, for he was now the envy of all his companions. Weapons of war were not very plentiful in those days. As Stanley grew older his dog and gun, and a tramp with his companion, was his delight. After a long tramp hunting or fishing, the three would come home — generally empty handed and always with empty stomachs. The next empty thing was the larder. I often tried to hide some delicacies from him, but never succeeded. His bump of locality was wonderful. It is hard to believe the serious, sedate Rudger was a mischievous little urchin, but he generally managed to slip out of deserved punishment. There was a bright, young lady who was very intimate at our home. One day when visiting there, she remarked (for some of his little antics), "That little rascal needs a good drubbing." I said, "Sarah, if you can catch him, you are at liberty to give him a sound thrashing, with my full consent." So off and on all day long, she tried to catch and hold him, but he slipped through her fingers every time. She said it was the first time a little boy had ever gotten the best of her. And so it has been in his after life. He has escaped from great calamities. Construction and Reconstruction in the Home. SOME SUGGESTIONS FOR CHILDREN'S CLOTHES. Dressing children sensibly and becomingly is perhaps a slightly more difficult task than it is generally considered. It is not difficult to secure, through fashion magazines, many good patterns for cutting children's clothes. However, the following suggestions may be valuable: The most important point to consider is whether or not the dress is hung properly from the shoulder. It should for hygienic reasons hang from the shoulder so that there is no restriction around the growing body. The present styles show many good ideas for skirt and waist as well as one-piece effects which have this necessary looseness in the waist line. If the neck, shoulders and armseye are not properly fitted together there will be a dragging effect of either front or back which is both uncomfortable and unsightly. On the other hand, if properly cut and fitted together the plainest little dress possible will set comfortably and properly about the upper part of the body. It is not difficult to regulate the lower part of the skirt or sleeves if the upper part is properly adjusted. No amount of care and work in trimming and finishing can cover this foundational fault. In the selection of styles for children use common sense and stay with the plainer, more simple designs. Children can stand severity in this regard far better than grown people, in fact the natural charms of childhood should never be subordinated to fussy, over-trimmed clothes. Touches of hand-work are very attractive for children's clothes. I am fully aware that a busy mother does not have time to spend in elaborate embroidery, so am offering some suggestions in the use of stitches and designs with which one may complete a dress in an evening. The inexpensiveness of hand-trimming is another point worthy of consideration, with the present prevailing high prices of good laces and embroideries. In the cutting of the so-called "Butterfly" styles, avoid if 482 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE possible the very bias seam which runs from the under arm to the bottom of the dress. There are two big objections to this or any other pattern which calls for a similar seam. First — they are bound to sag and pull the entire dress out of shape. Second — they do not look well in figured materials, especially in plaids. Figure I— Will give you an idea of how you may cut the same pattern with the seam straight (or nearly so) and still have the necessary fulness at the bottom of the skirt. Instead of cutting away the material from under the arm, place it in an inverted box-plait the top of which may be finished on the wrong side and fastened to the outside invisibly. EXPLANATION OF STITCHES. Figure II — Here is a simple yet new use of the lazy-daisy stitch. The line just inside the neck may be worked in an outline of some kind either in black or white. Work the lazy-daisy stitches in white floss of a coarse size. Then go over the end stitches with a black stitch and place a black French knot in the center. On pink, blue or any plain color gingham, this black and white is very effective. If the material happens to be white, use a pale shade of some color in place of the white and use the black as stated above. Figure III — Here is a simple spray constructed of the same stitch and an outline stitch. First mark a dot with a pencil for the center of each flower and a spool is a good size to use as a guide for the outside edge of the flower. Figure IV — Gives you an idea of how the lazy-daisy stitch and cross-stitch may be used to construct a border design. This may be used anywhere a band trimming would be appropriate. Figure V — Is a border constructed of the cal-stitch, crossstitch and chain-stitch. This is effective worked out in black and white or in two colors. Figure VI — Shows how the common feather-stitch may be worked into petal shapes to form flowers or leaves. Below is a detail of the feather-stitch as commonly used. When worked very close as shown in the flower the loop in the center gives the effect of a center vein. Figure VII — Circles of this kind are effective as separate units of design and may be worked out in any outline stitch. They are easily worked from any small round object. Figure VIII — Shows how the circle and square may be used by working the center solid with an edge of some outline stitch on the outside. ON THE WATCH TOWER James H. Anderson. Three notable topics of interest in June were the signing of the peace treaty by Germany and the Entente allies with the exception of China, on June 28; numerous labor strikes in Europe and America, most of which proved failures on the part of the strikers; and an aeroplane trans-Atlantic flight from Newfoundland to Ireland, on June 15, in 16 hours and 27 minutes. The German cabinet was overthrown, and disastrous riots occurred in German cities, co-incident with the signing of the peace treaty, with a prospect of still further disturbances. Labor strikes in France, Great Britain, Italy, Austria, Canada, Australia, Argentina, and in the United States, both locally and generally, added greatly to the prevailing spirit of unrest, but had mostly calmed down for a time at the end of June. Captain Jack Alcock, an Englishman, and Lieutenant Arthur Brown, an American, were the aviators who made the non-stop trans-Atlantic flight, establishing a new world-record in aerial navigation. The three items here narrated furnish an interesting and notable indication of the culminating events of the latter days, foretold in both ancient and modern prophecy. Mountain fires did considerable damage in Utah in June. Aerial mail service was inaugurated between New York and Chicago on July 1. Influenza was reported as epidemic in Australia, Queensland and New South Wales, in June. Palestine has been definitely assigned to British administration, to the delight of.the Jewish people generally. The British Flag was burned in public in Dublin. Ireland, on June 28, by adherents of the new Irish republic. Adam S. Bennion, of Salt Lake City, was appointed genera] superintendent of Latter-day Saint Church schools, in June. 484 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Locusts did much damage to crops in the central United States in June, and a visitation of the pest is looked for in 1920. An earthquake in Italy, on June 28, killed 127 people at Vicchio, and injured over a thousand others there and in the vicinity. Heat and drouth in the Rocky Mountain States in June caused a heavy loss in the grain and vegetable crops. The daylight-saving law was repealed by Congress in June, the repeal to take effect Oct. 31, next. It was later vetoed by the President. Frank K. Nebeker, of Salt Lake City, was appointed an assistant U. S. attorney general in June. Mr. Nebeker has a high standing as a lawyer. By a Franco-American convention, or treaty, signed by President Wilson on June 28, France acquires a right to call on the United States for aid, in case of trouble with Germany. Tobacco in any form is forbidden to minors in Utah, and there was instituted in June a general movement to see that officers enforced the law. Poland has had a peace treaty defined for her by France, Great Britain, and the United States, with numerous restrictions, one of which is religious liberty for the Jews. The General Church Conference, in Salt Lake City, June 1 to 3, afforded much gratification to the Latter-day Saints generally, in its instructions and action. 'The peace treaty with Germany, as signed, has been found to contain but few changes, and these mostly verbal, from that presented to the U. S. Senate by Senator Borah, on June 9. A Rhenish republic was declared in western Germany in June. It is said to be a Catholic movement practically for the protection of people of that faith in the domain affected. Congress passed the needed appropriation bills, then took a recess from July 2 to 7. Upon its resumption, there comes the prospect of a long struggle over the league of nations treaty. The most enormous eruption of gases, ever witnessed by ON THE WATCH TOWER 485 earth's astronomers as occurring on the sun, was observed at the Yerkes observatory, Williams Bay, Wis., on May 27, 28 and 29. The Woman Suffrage amendment to the national Constitution went through Congress in June, and goes to the various States for ratification. Illinois was the first State to take favorable legislative action, and others whose legislatures are in session soon fell into line. Prohibition of the wartime variety went into effect in the United States on July 1, but in accordance with President Wilson's suggestion to Congress the sale of light wines and beer continued in other than prohibition States. Italy's cabinet was overthrown in June, owmg to President Wilson's insistence that Italy be not given all she demands in former Austrian territory, and a new cabinet, still more urgent in Italy's still situation demand, was acute. selected, so that at the end of June the Italian Dr. E. G. Gowans resigned, in June, as State superintendent of public instruction in Utah, and it is said will be given a State official position at a higher salary. Prof. G. N. Child was appointed to succeed Dr. Gowans as superintendent, with an increase of salary of $1,000 a year. Miss Margaret Horsley, of Price, Utah, has been chosen to name the new government vessel, on July 31, at Oakland, Cal. She was given this distinction because Carbon county, Utah, oversubscribed the fifth U. S. government loan to a greater percentage than did any other county in the twelfth district. The ship's name is to be "Utacarbon." "Woman is coming to be a shameless animal," is getting to be a popular comment among respectable manhood, owing to the female trend toward comparative nudity at bathing resorts, in moving pictures, and other public exhibitions. The respectable womanhood of the nation is becoming aroused in a movement to correct the evil. Catholic leaders in an educational session at St. Louis on June 24 protested against the U. S. system of education as being "patterned after the German idea of state control." There are others than Catholics who take the same view, and who agree with Archbishop Glennon's declaration that "He is not a patriot who would declare that every school that teaches faith in Christ must be faithless to America." EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto — Charity Never Faileth: THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells...... President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams..... First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith.....  Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman..... General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates..... Recording Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey....... Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Mrs. Phoebe Y. B'eatie Miss Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Edna Sarah May Davis McLelland Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor. . - - Susa Young Gates Business Manager...... Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager...... Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VI. AUGUST, 1919. No. 8. OUR RELIEF SOCIETY WARD TEACHERS. Not even the faithful and diligent officers of our Relief Society are deserving of more credit and more completely earn the love and gratitude of every man and woman in this Church than do the ward teachers of this great Society. It is impossible to even guess at the sacrifices made by these women and the good accomplished by them, in their visits monthly from house to house and from block to block. We know them and love them, and we know that not only in this world are they blessed, but that God and the angels await their return to the Other Side to crown them with the glory which is to be theirs. In this sphere of mortality, where life is too often measured by worldly success and superior intellectual gifts, their worth is often not realized, their value not measured. Every virtue in women's character is developed and required by those who attend faithfully to this humble but magnificent work. Faith, hope, infinite charity, long suffering patience, love unfeigned, these are the shields and bucklers which the Relief Society teacher girds upon her when she goes out with prayerful heart to minister in the homes of the people. The sick know her well, the fainting mother who welcomes her visit mourns her departure. The poor see God's own smile on her countenance when she enters their door, bringing both food and encouragement EDITORIAL 487 to their downcast and depleted homes. Wliat she doeth no man may measure, her reward no mortal can describe. Upon the teacher rests the large responsibility not only of ministeringto the needy and visiting the fatherless, it is to her labors also that the ward president looks for an increased membership in the society and for better attendance at meetings. Many times the teacher is at a loss just how to discharge this heavy obligation. She is willing to leave her home and spend several afternoons a month in her district either alone or with her companion, but she is often at a loss how to proceed in encouraging women to join the Society or to persuade laggard members to attend meetings regularly. She does not always know what to talk about and oftentimes her many cares at home and her natural modesty and diffidence hinders her from, talking on the principles of the gospel as she would like to do when she goes into the homes, lest she may unwillingly give offense. Her one greatest hope and help is in prayer. But she needs also some help and hope from those around her. Will it not advantage our whole membership to pay a little more public attention to our ward teachers, so that they may be stimulated and encouraged in their labors? Should they not have a special seat reserved for them in Relief Society meetings, on the front benches? It is doubtful if all wards and stake boards have a teacher's committee to supervise the labors of the ward teachers; to suggest topics, to discuss problems, and to systematize and regulate their visiting where possible. This might be done in union meetings, and the teachers should receive as much attention and be given a separate division of study as are the class teachers in other departments of our work. A teachers' convention given annually or biennially is an excellent method of encouragement and stimulation for these faithful and devoted women. The program should follow along the duties and privileges belonging to this lovely labor, while the priesthood should be invited and the public made welcome to the convention itself. Ward officers have much to do, so do we all, but their work would be lightened and responsibilities lessened and some vexing problems solved, if a little more thought and attention were paid to the ward teachers and their labors. We commend these suggestions to our sisters everywhere, and the General Board joins in loving salutations to the noble teachers of our great Relief Society. "GOSPEL DOCTRINE." A volume containing selections from the sermons and writings of our late beloved President Joseph F. Smith, has just been 488 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE published by the Committee on Courses of Study for the Priesthood. This book is quite different in scope and conception to anything yet attempted in our Church Literature. It is a magnificent composite picture of the great man who uttered the truths contained therein grouped and classified by a loving, reverent friend. What manner of man he was may better be determined through this book than by any biography whatsoever or by marble bust or painted picture. Doctor John A. Widtsoe has conceived and executed a remarkable monument to the memory and greatness of Zion's noble and powerful leader. The catholicity of President Smith's utterances, his depth of insight, his succinct mode of treating problems, his lucid approach to thought, and his powerful conclusions on any subject that he treated is admirably developed in this volume of his writings. No need of personal description of the man for no characterization, howsoever elaborately penned or enthusiastically described, could visualize him as does this valume. He stands before the reader the simple, direct, magnetic and chosen leader with few equals and no peers, save and except only his worshiped uncle the Prophet Joseph Smith and his revered, fatherly guide and protector, Brigham Young. Dr. Widtsoe was assisted in this great labor of love by his close friends and President Smith's ardent admirers, Professor Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, Albert E. Bowen, Frank S. Harris (grandnephew of Martin Harris) and Joseph Quinney, while Bishop Lorenzo N. Stohl generously paid the clerical expenses attendant upon the work. Not only does this book present a life portrait of President Joseph F. Smith, it likewise presents all.students of Church literature with a convenient reference book on the principles of the gospel with authoritative statements classified, compiled and indexed for instant use. Oh, that we had such a volume of the writings of the Prophet Joseph Smith and of President Brigham Young. What a contribution of real worth these three volumes would make for students who really want the gems of truth set m a circlet of golden value for convenient use and daily application. The book itself is one of the strongest spiritual compilations ever produced. It reveals President Smith as one the greatest and most inspired teachers of the gospel, who ever lived upon this earth. He shows such a careful, conservative spirit, he does not delve into mysteries, and yet there is such a depth of spiritual power that one is refreshed and inspired by reading a single page. No finer book except only the ancient and modern scriptures was ever put in print. It will live as long as time endures and truth remains. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in September. THE COMPLETENESS AND DETAIL OF PROPHECY CONCERNING CHRIST AS SET FORTH IN THE BOOK OF MORMON. 1 History reached its pivotal point in the coming of Christ. Those who Hved before this advent looked forward to his coming in the meridian of times. Those of us born today, to employ the words of a well known English poet, "look before and after." We look before to the time when Christ did come, we are looking after his first advent to the time when he will come. Many beautiful passages are found in the Bible prophetic of the coming of Christ, but the Book of Mormon appears to excel in plainness and minuteness of detail. Many of these details have been brought together by the author of the Story of the Book of Mormon, and from his collaboration we use those best suited to our purpose. For it is written in the sacred book that he, Christ, should be born in the land of Jerusalem. His mother's name should be Mary, she should be a virgin of the city of Nazareth; very fair and beautiful — a precious and chosen vessel. She should be overshadowe4 and conceive by the power of the Holy Ghost. He should be called Jesus Christ the Son of God and at his birth a new star should appear in the heavens. He should be baptized by John at Betharaba, beyond Jordan. John should testify that he had baptized the Lamb of God, who should take away the sins of the world. After his baptism the Holy Ghost should come down upon Him out of heaven, and abide upon him in the form of a dove. He should call twelve men as his special witnesses, to minister in his name. He should go forth among the people administering in power and great glory, casting out devils, healing the sick, raising the dead, and performing many mighty miracles. He should sufifer temptation, pain of body, hunger, thirst and fatigue: blood should come from every pore of his body by reason of his anguish because of the abominations of his people. 490 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE He should be cast out and rejected by the Jews; be taken and scourged, and judged of the world. He should be buried in a sepulchre, where he should remain three days. After he was slain he should rise from the dead and should make himself manifest by the Holy Ghost unto the Gentiles. He should lay down his life according to the flesh and take it up again by the power of the Spirit, that he might bring to pass the resurrection of the dead, being the first that should rise. At his resurrection many graves should be opened and should yield up their dead, and many of the Saints who had before time passed away should appear unto the living. Here we have a veritable biographical sketch some of it written nearly six hundred years before the thing occurred. It could only be a product of inspiration for no one drawing from him imagination would ever say that the mother should be a virgin. Not even in the realm of fiction should we expect such a statement, much less in that which assumed to be sacred history. It would be the very acme of the absurd, anywhere outside the realm of Greek and Roman mythology where we do find stories of beings half mortal and half god. Again, how perfectly unnatural, judged from a human standpoint, itwould be to say that the Virgin should be born in Nazareth, that obscure city of despised Galilee. Equally striking from another point of view are the details in relation to his death, for the death of Christ followed the Roman customs and not the Jewish and no one could know the manner of his death, except it were revealed by the Lord. To the class of persons who believe that prophecy is always vague, set forth in such a fashion that anyone of two or more meanings might be acceptable in its interpretation, such detailed prophecy as we find in the Book of Mormon must be astounding. Jacob tells us why the Jews lost their plainness of speech. (Jacob 4:14.) And now, to turn to the second coming of Christ. The book of Doctrine and Covenants also goes into detail in relation to his second coming. It tells us: "For I," meaning Christ, "will reveal myself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand. "And again, verily, verily, I say unto you, and it hath gone forth in a firm degree, by the will of the Father, that mine apostles, the Twelve, which were with me in my ministry at Jerusalem, shall stand at my right hand at the day of my coming in a pillar of fire, being clothed with robes of righteousness with crowns upon their heads in glory, even as I am, to judge the GUIDE LESSONS 491 whole house of Israel, even as many as have loved me and kept my commandments and none else; "For a trumpet shall sound, both long and loud, even as upon Mt. Sinai, and all the earth shall quake, and they shall come forth; yea, even the dead which died in me, to receive a crown of righteousness, and to be clothed upon, even as I am, to be with me, that we may be one. "But behold I say unto you, that before this great day.shall come, the sun shall be darkened and the moon shall be turned into blood, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and there shall be greater signs in heaven above, and in the earth beneath; "And there shall be a great hail storm sent forth to destroy the crops of the earth; "And it shall come to pass that because of the wickedness of the world, that I will take vengeance upon the wicked, for they will not repent, for the cup of mine indignation is full; for behold my blood shall not cleanse them, if they hear me not." No doubt every word that is found within the holy scriptures, concerning the second coming of Christ, will be as literally fulfilled in the due time of the Lord as the words that were written concerning his first coming. One interesting sidelight on the vision of Nephi concerning the Virgin Mary was given by the lecturer Mme. Lydia Von Finkelstein Mountford, who was a student of the Book of Mormon. "No one," she exclaimed, "but an oriental scholar would know that the Virgin could be designated by her costume. It is only the orientals who know virgins, wives, widows and nameless women by their dress." "And it came to pass that I saw the heavens open; and an angel came down and stood before me; and he said unto me, Nephi, what beholdest thou? "And I said unto him, a virgin, most beautiful and fair above all other virgins." — I Nephi 11:14-15. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Show how prophecy that is full of details as to names and places would be impossible, save through one inspired of the Lord. 2. Show how prophecy in detail completely upsets the arguments of people who assert that prophecy is vague, and that its meaning may be met in several ways. 3. Why may the prophecies concerning Christ as recorded in the Book of Mormon be regarded as a veritable biography? 4. Relate some prophecies found in scripture that pertain to the Second coming of Christ. 5. Have some member of the class read section 45 of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with paragraph 26 and including paragraph 53. 492 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 6. Are any of these prophecies, concerning Christ's second coming, already fulfilled? LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in September. LESSON III. Genealogy. Third Week in September. WELSH SURNAMES. Outlines For Class Leader. Origin. Tribal relations. Proper names followed usual customs. Surnames very recent and most are sirenames. Lesson Statement. The origin of the Welsh people rests in the mists of antiquity. They are a branch of the Celtic race and in some characteristics they resemble the Scotch and the Irish, but while they have much of the wit which is common to the Irish race it is tempered with something of the taciturnity of their cousins, the Highland Scotch. They are rather a silent people, not boisterous like the Irish, but they do resemble them in the haughty pride which is natural to a Welshman, while no one is so clannish as are the Welsh people. There are numerous witty stories about the Welshman's ideas concerning the antiquity of his race and their pride of birth. They would interpret the nursery rhyme to read "Paddy was a Welshman, and Paddy was a Chief." While on a visit to England sometime since we were shown a very long Welsh pedigree. One-third of the way down the line from the earliest ancestors was written: "About this time Father Adam was born." The history of the Welsh people is found in every general history and many of our Welsh people are familiar with their own beginnings. The custom of giving children proper names followed closely that of surrounding tribes and peoples. When Caesar invaded Britain he found a people governed by their Druids and bards. The Druids were the priests while the bards were poets and genealogists. The bards would sit for hours and recite over the GUIDE LESSONS 493 pedigrees of the various chieftains giving to each a little historic verse of descriptive praise. This seems to have been a common practice throughout modern Europe, and even the Hawaiians and Samoans inherited this custom, derived no doubt from their common Hebraic ancestors. The Welsh, themselves, say they are descendants from Gomar, the grandson of Noah through Japheth, but we may be sure that such of them as received the gospel, have come through the loins of Ephraim, when the Ten Tribes were scattered through the north countries and left their seed in the many nations through which they journeyed. At the invasion of Caesar, the Welsh people shared in the experiences of their English and Scotch neighbors but they were the last race in Great Britain to adopt surnames. It is true that they had the appellation, "Ap," which means "the son of," and when a man was referred to he was spoken of as Ap-Jenkin-ap-Griffith-ap-Robbin-ap-William-ap-Reese-ap-Evan. In other words, Jenkin the son of Griffith the son of Robbin, the son of William the son of Reese the son of Evan. King Henry VIII issued an edict to the principal land owners in Wales to adopt surnames, but the common people did not follow that example until much later. The Welsh were very religious and for a thousand years most of them have had Bible names. When surnames were finally adopted they simply added "s" to the proper name, meaning "son of," and we have Jones, which is the son of John, Davies, Williams, Thomas, Johns, Howells and Abrahams, all surnames derived from sirenames. Modern Welshmen have sometimes taken a middle name to distinguish them from the many bearers of their own given names and surnames. QUESTIONS. What is the origin of the Welsh people? Who are the Celts? What were the tribal religions of the Welsh people? How did they resemble their Scotch and Irish neighbors? What proper names are common in Wales? How were their surnames usually formed? Ask a descendant of the Welsh people to give a sketch of his ancestors and surname to the class. 494 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Home Courses. THE SIGNIFICANCE OF PLAYGROUNDS IN THE COMMUNITY LIFE. Lesson IV. Fourth Week in September. As cities have developed, an increasing proportion of the nation's population has been removed from the influence of the open country with all that it means for our national health and vigor and clean imagination. Cities have met this situation in three ways:— one is the making possible of brief visits of children and elderly people to the country during the summer time; another is the provision of city parks, which, with their fields and woodlands and stretches of green grass and water, preserve some of the beautiful features of the country for city eyes to feast upon; the third is the public playground which offers to city children a chance for some free sport in the open air and on Mother Earth. The playground is a place near at hand to which children can run on short notice and from which they can return quickly, so that the playground becomes an integral part of the daily life. Experience with the city playgrounds has proved that aside from its recreational advantage, the playground is of such great value to the right development of the child that its establishment for all children and all communities is justified and most desirable. It is not at all sufficient that the children be protected from danger during their helpless years, but that they be furnished with sturdy, disease-resisting bodies is equally important. Every child has a right to be as healthy as present knowledge can make him; health under conditions of modern life is not a thing which will take care of itself. The child bred under present conditions of civilization cannot be relied upon to grow to healthy, vigorous maturity like a rabbit in the woods. He needs special education in health habits and recreation if he is to develop normally. The child should be taught that health is more to be desired than fame or wealth — that it is the foundation of all real success and happiness. And supervised play is one of the best means of attaining and retaining that health. Recreation is essential to the moral life of any people. It is the constructive method of making individuals into good citizens, and the making of good sturdy citizenship is most important. The play spirit teaches us how better to live and work together; so GUIDE LESSONS 495 there is a broad relation between the playground movement and other efforts for better citizenship and better community life. Play means not only a good time, but from the child's point of view, it is serious business; moreover, it has vital significance in educational development. The playgrounds are training grounds for lessons that cannot be taught within the four walls of home or school. In a typical playground the policy of allowing children to learn by experience, but safe-guarding the experience so that it shall not be disastrous, is one of the underlying principles. In addition to receiving the physical benefits that come from wholesome outdoor exercise and the intellectual benefits that come from useful constructive work, the little children playing on the sand pile learn fundamental lessons in mutual rights. The older children learn lessons in mutual relationships by sharing the use of swings, by having to play by the rules of the game. Later, as they form into teams, they learn that self-sacrifice which is involved in the team game. They learn that the social unit is larger than the individual unit, that individual victory is not as sweet as the victory of the team, and that the most perfect self-realization is won by the most perfect sinking of one's self in the welfare of the larger unit — the team. Thus the child learns to control himself in these increasingly complex relationships. The control in a playground is the sort that obtains throughout well regulated society — the control by public opinion rather than control of either force or fear. The two great institutions that have to do with the training of the child — the home and the school — rest primarily upon the development of the qualities of obedience. The playground, alone affords to children the one great opportunity for cultivating those qualities that grow out of meeting others of like kind under conditions of freedom; it develops, progressively from babyhood on to adult life, that sense of human relationship which is basal to wholesome living. The development of the ethical social self must begin as soon as the child is old enough to have relations to other children of his own age, and it must continue as long as human life continues. And the people of the smaller communities need this training just as much as the city dweller. Democracy must provide not only a seat and instruction for every child in the school, but also play and good play traditions for every child in the playground. Without the development of these social instincts, without the growing of social conscience — which has its roots in the early activities of the playground — we cannot expect adults to possess those higher feelings which rest upon the earlier social virtues developed during childhood. The sandpile for the small children, the playground for the middle-sized child, 496 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the athletic field for the boy, folk dancing and social ceremonials for the boy and girl in their teens, wholesome means of social relationships during adult life — these are fundamental conditions without which democracy cannot continue, because upon them rest the development of that self-control which is related to an appreciation of the needs of the rest of the group and of the corporate conscience which is rendered necessary by the complex interdependence of modern life. Therefore, it is vastly important that everything be done to infuse new life and new enthusiasm into the country districts. Home, church, school, and community must unite intelligently to produce conditions that will make for contentment. At first thought it might seem that country children have plenty of play and that they do not particularly need playgrounds; as a matter of fact, however, they do not play much, and if they do not play much they do not play enough. A physician has said that no one is so much house surrounded as a country girl, that no one is so utterly unwilling to take exercise in the open air, that no one is so likely to scorn as food, milk, cream, and eggs. The repertoire of games of the country children is surprisingly small and inadequate; their games are strongly individualistic, training them for isolated efforts rather than for cooperation. In order to discuss intelligently the value of playgrounds in rural districts we must see the playground as a social institution and in its proper setting; we must realize the social needs to which organized and supervised play is to minister. To most people the play of children may seem to consist chiefly of certain childish activities whereby health and pleasure are promoted, but we must keep constantly in mind the fact that the importance of play in the country is not so much to promote health as to develop social instincts. The playground in the country as well as the city, if it is widely developed, will prove to be an uplifting social project — a force of extraordinary power and vitality. Wherever it is established it will make people love their homes more, it will brighten farm and village life, it will broaden minds, quicken sympathies, and develop patriotism. In other words, the playground movement will cooperate powerfully in producing communities "That are governed by justice, dignified by intelligence, and adorned by health and refinement." Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS The Department for renting Temple Clothes at the Bishop's Building has been closed. Hereafter people desiring suits for rent may secure them at the Salt Lake Temple. EVERYTHING FOR ELECTRICITY & AUTOMOBILE ACCESSORIES 37-41 E. FIRST SOUTH WAY. 6700 Your Photographs Should Come From AMUNDSEN 249 MAIN STREET Better Work Because Better Equipment Established 1877 Phone, Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully Illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request. 55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah "DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" Ice Cream Special attention given to parcel post candy orders P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Gospel Doctrine Selections from Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith. The Melchizedek Priesthood Quorums have adopted GOSPEL DOCTRINE as a text for class study for the next two years. It contains 700 pages, with a photogravure Frontispiece and autograph of President Smith. Handsome bound in cloth, $1.50 postpaid. Get the "Guide" to go with it. Price 15c. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 631 MAIN STREET The Utah State National Bank UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK "UTAH" SALT LAKE CITY features quick and efficient service. Officers Heber J. Grant, President Wm. R. Wallace, Vice President Henry T. McEwan, V. Pres. and Cashier Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier The Utah Agricultural College (The Home of the efficient education) Announces its fall opening for SEPTEMBER FIFTEENTH Link up your ambition with a valuable training and prepare for a successful career. The following professions offer lucrative positions to women. Select your profession. The U. A. C. will prepare you to fill it. Home Economic Expert Home Maker Typist Institutional Manager Milliner Smith-Hughes Worker Stenographer Teacher Musician Bookkeeper Dietitian Dress Maker Nurse Rural Health Expert Cafeteria Manager Office Manager Accountant Social Worker Home Demonstrator Degree and vocational courses offered in the schools of: AGRICULTURE AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING MECHANIC ARTS HOME ECONOMICS COMMERCE AND BUSINESS GENERAL SCIENCE ADMINISTRATION The annual catalogue is now ready. Write for it and for the Beautiful Art Booklet. Address The President's Office, Desk H, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. RELIEF SOCIETY Magazine SEPTEMBER, 1919 Read in This Number: Pres. Heber J. Grant's address to the Relief Society June Conference. Are you Honest in Little Things? Do you teach your children the meaning of the word Duty? Read Mrs. Gibbs' Story. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints No. 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy 10c L. D. S. GARMENTS APPROVED CORRECT PATTERN Prepaid Parcel Post to any part of United States. 15c extra on each garment to Canada or Mexico. THESE APPROVED TEMPLE GARMENTS are knitted and made right here in our own UTAH FACTORY, to your special order and measurements. Lowest prices on market. Mail your order to us now and say you saw it in the "Relief Society Magazine." Look for the APPROVED LABEL in every garment No. Price 11 Light weight cotton $2.00 20 Light weight cotton, bleached 2.25 60 Medium weight cotton 2.50 22 Medium weight cotton, bleached 2.50 90 Heavy weight cotton 3.00 24 Heavy weight cotton, bleached 3.50 50 Extra white double, bleached merc. 4.00 10 Medium weight wool mixture 4.50 16 Heavy weight wool 5.00 18 Extra heavy wool 6.50 Sizes from 32 to 44 bust, and 52 to 64 length, as desired. Longer than 64 in. or over 44 in. bust, each size 20c extra. Garments with double backs 25c extra per suit, we make any size desired. Measure bust around body under arms, length, from center on top of shoulder down to inside of ankle. INFANT SHIRTS — Silkaline and Lamb's Wool, $1.00 each. State baby's age. MODEL KNITTING WORKS Franklyn Christiansen, Manager 657 IVERSON STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Phone Hy. 516 Invite your friends in for an evening's entertainment Bread is Nutritious Columbia Grafonola $210.20 Including Twenty-four Selections ROYAL BREAD is as good and nutritious as bread can possibly be. It is the result of many years of "knowing how" to give real bread satisfaction. $50.00 Cash $17.50 a Month ROYAL BREAD The bread that made mother stop baking This is one of the Columbia's highest priced instruments. In it you have about all that money can buy. is made where pure air and sunshine penetrate to every nook and corner. It is made of selected quality ingredients by expert bakers. ROYAL BREAD is the Supreme Quality Loaf. Write for catalogs of Grafonolas and Records. Your Neighborhood Grocer sells ROYAL BREAD; fresh every day. Royal Baking Co. SALT LAKE "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" A REAL self filling Pen, guaranteed to satisfy. Ask about it. Write about it. McConahay "The Jeweler" 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah The Department for renting Temple Clothes at the Bishop's Building has been closed. Hereafter people desiring suits for rent may secure them at the Salt Lake Temple. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete BURIAL SUITS Address: — JULINA L. SMITH, 67 East South Temple Street Phone W. 1752 Salt Lake City, Utah BURIAL INSURANCE IN THE BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS, or Beneficial Life Insurance Company Relief Society Department HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH While there are no meetings DICKINSON'S "THE CLEAN STORE" is a good time to read CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES "Love and The Light" By O. F. Whitney $1.25 at the SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE The Book Store of Salt Lake City 44 East South Temple Street "Dickinson's better quality Dickinson's better service Dickinson's reliability Dickinson's the household word" S. S. DICKINSON COMPANY Hyland 60, 61 and 62 676-680 East 2nd South Street. The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS SEPTEMBER, 1919 General Church Offices Frontispiece The Records of Our Dead Lula Greene Richards 497 Remarks Made at R. S. Conference...Prest. Heber J. Grant 499 Reminiscences of Margaret Judd Clawson 505 His Wife's Mother-in-Law Ruth Moench Bell 510 Objections to Temple Work Joseph A. West 515 What's the Price? Mary Foster Gibbs 519 To My Friend Lucy May Green 523 The Library of the Genealogical Society 524 The Garden in September 528 The Round Table 530 Construction and Reconstruction in the Home 538 Dream Pictures Gen. D. A. Utter 541 On the Watch Tower...James H. Anderson 542 Editorial — Are We Always Honest? 545 Guide Lessons 548 ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY. Patronize those who patronize us AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH, Logan. AMUNDSEN STUDIO, 249 Main Street, Salt Lake City. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Salt Lake City. BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO., Billiard Tables, 55-59 W. South Temple BURIAL CLOTHES, 67 E. South Temple Street. CULLEN ICE & BEVERAGE CO., Salt Lake. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. S. S. DICKINSON & CO., 680 E. Second South, Salt Lake City. EARDLEY BROS. CO., "Everything for Electricity," Salt Lake City. KEELEY'S ICE CREAM, Salt Lake City. LAMBOURNE, ERNEST, Florist, 67 S. Main St., Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, "The Jeweler," 64 Main Street. MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City. ROYAL BAKING CO., Salt Lake City. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. 