The Face in the Mirror
By Elizabeth C. Porter-Rissanen
Lita, wheeled from the operating table at the maternity hospital after her baby was born, resembled one of the effigies on the tombs at Westminster, so still was she, so like alabaster. A great peace enveloped her; she only wanted to rest. The long torture had drained her of sensation: she was numb. It was after the woman had been purified by the fiery ordeal of motherhood that the husband usually came forward and kissed her on the brow. But Joe was not there. Where was Joe?
That question had harried Lita's mind for the past three weeks. Her young husband had not come home from his work one night, and he had never been seen or heard from since. So certain was she that some harm had befallen him that she had taken his description to the police station. The desk sergeant had smiled skeptically at her, as if lost men were not an unheard of thing. Someone had remarked that the men who disappeared were usually the ones who wanted to. But they didn't know Joe. She clipped an item from the paper about an unidentified man being found dead, taken to the General Hospital, and afterwards cremated. What if something like that had happened to her Joe? The uncertainty of it kept it mulling in her mind like a puzzle that cannot be solved.
So the young wife had come to the hospital alone. She had overheard a conversation relative to herself. "She thinks that he will come back," giggled Maggie Gulliver. "Why?" asked Mame. "Oh, she thinks that he's been injured or kidnaped or something. You remember Annie Godowski? When her husband found out that she was going to have a baby he went and left her. After she had given the baby away and gone back to her job in the candy factory, he came back. She said that he wasn't mean to her?he just went and left her." "Like to see me take a man back when he had quit me once!" said the strong-minded Mame. "When I'm through, I'm through."
A chill had struck Lita's heart. Did women really regard men like that? Not in her stratum of society. Joe had restless Viking blood in his veins; he had always been a wanderer. It had proved his love for her that he had given up his much vaunted freedom for it. All her instincts assured her that Joe
 
was all right, that he could be depended on, that he would stick. If a woman couldn't depend upon a man at such a time, what good was he?
When Lita was settled in the cool comfort of her bed, the words of the Latter-day Saint hymn book came to her mind: "When through the deep waters I call thee to go, The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'erflow."
After a while they brought the baby, smelling of fresh linen and talcum powder. "He's a pretty baby," the nurse assured her, as she gave him a drink of water, via a bottle. Lita had her reservations about this as she surveyed the red wrinkled visage. (Afterwards, when she saw the others, she conceded that he was the best looking of the lot.) "He has darling hands;" she touched one tiny clenched fist. With the miracle of the baby before her in her dawning mother-consciousness, she remembered the words of a woman lecturer that she had heard a short time before. "Love," the psychologist, had declared, "is the greatest thing in the world. It can create life itself." During the noon hour some of the husbands?who were privileged Visitors?came up. Again Lita had a desolate feeling. But then she had her baby, while Wilda Bennett, the girl in the next bed, had lost hers. She lay now with her crimson kimona thrown across her shoulders like a silken poppy. When the nurse brought in an armful of roses, she told her to throw them out. Wilda, a product of the cabarets, and filled with some of the false concepts of the age, had viewed her approaching maternity as a trap in which she had been caught. But when they took her dead baby to be buried in the cemetery in the rain, she cried all night. She wanted her, warm in her arms. Her breasts ached and her. Heart hungered for the child she had not wanted. How different was the older woman on the ayaa side of Lita in the ward. She gloried that. She had passed on the torch of life and was planning to build the rest of her life around her precious baby. Some commotion was caused by the arrival of the wealthy parents of Bernice, who came to take the girl mother home. Bernice, a modern flapper, had married a boy friend instead of the older gentleman that her father and mother had picked out for her. With the advent of the grandchild, she had been forgiven. The afternoon sun lay across Lita's bed. The air bore THE FACE IN THE MIRROR 261 the scent of eucalyptus, pine, and the distant breath of the sea. Below, in some dusty looking palms, mocking birds twitt?red. A green parrot, perched in a fig tree, screeched "Grandma." Across the street, against a yellow wall, red cannas ranged themselves like an army with banners. Beyond was a splotch of purple?bougainvella. An acacia tree was in bloom. Someone had said that her baby had been born on Halloween. It was the last day of October; and the contrast between this flower-decked city of southern California and her mountain home, came to her mind. In the valleys of the mountains the harvest had been gathered and stored for the winter. The grain was garnered and threshed. Apples were picked. Even the gorgeous autumn leaves of City Creek canyon would be gone by now, and the maple trees shivering in their bareness. The tang of frost was in the air. The brave people of the mountains prepared for the advent of winter. She recalled a Halloween party of her girlhood, when. They trailed the table with blackberry leaves, and had chicken, pumpkin pie, and black currant jelly. They had cut faces out of apples and given a live black cat for the prize. They had rescued raisins from an alcohol flame, and, gathering around the fireplace heaped with blazing logs, begged the "witch" to tell their fortunes. (These had come true as much as such things generally do.) The girls had gone into a dark closet, one ata time. Each lighted a candle and beheld over her left shoulder the man she was going to marry. The game had been concocted from the old superstition that on the night that hobgoblins walk, a girl might really view such a phenomenon. Lita glanced into the mirror of her dresser. Her eyes opened wide, for there over her left shoulder was the lost Joe! A wan-looking Joe with a bandage over his head. He stood at the back of her bed. She cried out, but it was no apparition; for presently the real flesh and blood Joe knelt by her side and buried his head in her breast. Her arms went round him. A great contentment filled her. Joe had come. Back as she knew that 'he would. "My Lita!" he murmured, as he kissed her hungrily. Her hand rippled the blond hair. "What hurt you, Joe?" "Auto, I guess. Must have struck me. Concussion of the brain. Didn't know anything for a long time. Just got out of the hospital. Went to Mrs. Morris's, and was nearly crazy when she said that you had come here. You're all right?" "Sure. You must see the baby, Joe. It's a boy." "Baby! How old is it?" "A few hours. It was born this morning." "Oh Lita!" He took her in his arms.