DIFFERENCE OF OPINION.

	The realities of life; in a great degree, are
such as people incline themselves to meet.
There are both pains and pleasures associated
with all periods, and all circumstances in which
existence may be valued, or endured. Excesses
in every form are dangerous, being the greatest
sources of regret and misery; but temperance
in all things ensures a life of happiness and
success. The different views taken on various
subjects are interesting to the thoughtful ob-
server. A Chicago lady writing on the
“Mormon question” says among other things:
	“A woman of any spirit and self-respect
would rather live in a garret and eat a crust
earned by her own honest toil than to share
the bounty of a millionaire with one, two, or a
dozen other wives. Such a system of marriage
does away with the sacredness and beauty of


the marital relation. Perhaps you will say
that much of it is done away with now—by
unfaithful husbands, whose victims and their
illegitimate children must suffer the bitterest
part of the consequences. Still, we say, if we
can have but one perfect and happy marriage
in ten, let us, by 'all means,' have 'that one;'
and let us raise up and strengthen our weaker
sisters, and encourage them to become self-sup-
porting, so they shall not so easily fall a prey to
man's lust, instead of degrading 'all woman-
hood' and, in fact, the 'whole race,' to the level
of its weakest specimens."
	The writer who penned the foregoing senti-
ments is evidently a sincere laborer in promot-
ing the welfare of her sex; and although we
do not agree with her in those sentiments, we
would discuss them in a spirit of candor and
generosity.
	Polygamy, as believed and practiced by the
Mormons, is very different in its nature from
that which is practiced in other nations at the
present day, and should not be compared with
that of the Eastern countries, when the differ-
ence is clearly understood. As it is often
repeated, the Latter-day Saints teach and live
in polygamy from a consciousness of thus doing
right and promoting the good of mankind. If
any enter into it merely through selfishness
in any form, they violate the sacred rights which
pertain there to.
	Now, a woman with such ideas concern-
ing polygamy as are entertained and expressed
by our Chicago friend, would certainly be most
miserable were she placed in a family "with
one, two, or a dozen other wives." Yet, some of
happiest, sweetest tempered and most intelli-
gent women  of our acquaintance—and we sin-
cerely believe them to be among the most
hopeful and contented ones in the world—are
those who have received for themselves the
light of truth upon the subject of Celestial
marriage and therefore have willingly and joy-
fully embraced it.
	Instead of being "the weakest specimens of
humanity," they must be possessed of the
highest order of human intelligence and cor-
responding virtue to enter into and live happily
in Celestial marriage, which they consider the
only true system for forming marital relations.
These ideas advanced by our contemporary,
demand farther attention than we have space
to give in the present issue; but we may refer
to them again.


