WHAT NOT.

	Great is the rush for church on Sundays
now—to see the latest fashions.
	When is a lady’s hair like news? When
it is found in the morning papers. 
	“Sam, did you ever see the Catskill Moun-
tains? “No, sah; but I have seen ’em kill
mice.”
	“Are you not afraid that whisky ’ll get
into your head?” asked a stranger of a man
he saw drinking at the bar. “No,” said the
toper, “this liquor’s too weak to climb.”
	An exchange notes that, “in Northwestern
Kansas, there are four men to one woman.”
In New England factories there are often
foremen to one hundred women.
	Billings says: There ain’t ennything
that will kompletely kure lazyness, but I
have known a second wife to hurry it some.
	Subscriber writes to a Western Editor,
“I don’t want your paper any longer.” To 
which the Editor replies: “I wouldn’t
make it any longer if you did; its present
length suits me very well.”
	The kindness of leaving people alone is
one which warm-hearted people find least-
easy to practice; and, in truth, the best
quiet, and completest rest, come with a
sense of kindness waiting, of friends at hand.
when the time is come for them.
	“What’ dis Credit More Biler dat de news-
papers makin’ such a fuss about?” inquired
one darkey of another in the market this
morning. “Dunno," replied the other, “but
I s'pose de gov’ment buildin’ steam-ships,
and wants credit for more bilers dan dey
can get.”
	A lady was engaged in domestic affairs,
when some one rang the street-door bell,
and the servant girl, a Catholic, was bidden
to say her mistress was not at home. She
answered, "Yes, ma’am; and when I con-
fess to the priest shall I confess as your sin
or mine?”
	During an election canvas in Michigan,
a sugeon-dentist was making an excellent
speech in one of the inferior towns. A low
fellow belonging to the other party inter-
rupted him with the question, “What do
you ask to pull a tooth, doctor”? “I will
pull all your teeth for a shilling, and your
nose gratis,” replied the speaker.
	In a Conference Meeting on a recent
Sunday evening, in a Congregational church
not far from Worcester, a colored brother
rose to pray, but before that exercise he
indulged in brief preliminary remarks as
follows: “Brethren and sisters, it don’t do
me a bit of good to hear any of you speak or
pray; I feel as though I must do it for my-
self, for you know, as our Lord an Saviour
Jesus Christ said, ‘Every tub must stand
upon its own bottom!’”
	Their Hearts.—During the late civil
war it was considered necessary in Cynthi-
ana to keep a few soldiers at that place.
One night two of them strayed into the
church of the colored people just as the
minister was concluding an invitation to
any one who was inclined to “come and join
the church.” After he had finished, these
two soldiers got up, walked forward, and
presented themselves for admission; where-
upon the preacher said: “Breddren, dis is
a cullud church, an’ I dunno as I’s any
'thority to take in white folks.” At this
point an elderly uncle rose in the congrega-
tion, and ejaculated: “Take ’em in, Brud-
der Jilson, take ’em in; dar skins is white,
dat’s fact, but dar hearts is jis as black as
our’n, suah.”


