HOME AFFAIRS.

	The headers of the Exponent, noticing a
change in the name of the editor will doubtless
readily infer the cause. For a fortnigth past, or
since the afternoon of the sixteenth of June,
we have been highly favored with felicitations
and congratulations of a warm and agreeable
nature, from kind and affectionate friends on
every hand, on the event of our union in the sacred
bonds of wedlock, with Mr. W. Levi Richards,
whose name we are now content to wear in con-
nection with our old one. Hereafter we shall
be able to give our young lady readers occasional
hints and words of advice on the subject of
matrimony, which we have lately concluded is,
and should be of interest to them all. If the
present issue of the Exponent should seem a
little prosy, we ask the gracious consideration
of our friends, and promise for the future to be,
always on hand and most happy to do our best
to please and gratify them all so far as our
humble abilities will enable us.
	An insane man named Henry Hampton,
committed suicide in the Insane Asylum of
this city one evening recently.
	Madam Anna Bishop has been making
sweet music for the people of this city and
theatre goers have enjoyed a musical treat.
	We are solicited to say that the sisters, in
saving paper rags, are respectfully requested to
see that all rags they send in are perfectly clean
and ready for use.
	To ensure attention to their communica-
tions, correspondents writing to the Exponent
over assumed signatures must make known
their real names to the editor. 
	The Fourth is now but four days distant;
but there seems to be very little preparation
being made for its reception. The fire com-
panies are apparently the only ones who have
ardor enough this season to create a stir.
	“A Constant reader of the Exponent” has
sent us some good ideas in pleasant language;
and we regret that she withholds her name,
thus obliging us, in accordance with established
rules, to withhold her production from publica-
tion.
	Miss M. E. Cook, with a party of students
of the Deseret University, had a very pleasing
out, on the 24th ult., taking an excursion trip
to Ogden, where the young  folks had a fine
frolic, and returned well satisfied with  the
day’s proceedings.
	President Young and party went by rail
from this city to Logan on the 26th ult., where
they held a three days' meeting; by which the
people of Cache County were blest as with a
feast of good things, and all experienced a very
enjoyable time.
	It will be interesting and beneficial to most
school teachers in and near the city, to attend
the normal class which Professor Park kindly
offers to teach gratuituous for the benefit of
teachers who have not had experience, and those
desirous of becoming teachers; commencing
next Monday, the 7th inst., at 9 o’clock a. m.,
at the University buildings.
	Among the truest and most energetic friends
of the "Exponent," we are pleased to mention
Mrs. Ruth Tylor of Beaver City, who will act
as Agent in behalf of the journal for that county;
also our Agent for Weber county, Mrs. A. M.
Frodsham, who is unremitting in her efforts to
promote the welfare of the paper. The "Ex-
ponent" has many aiders and abetters, to whom
we tender our sincere thanks for their kindness
in contributing so liberally and incessantly to
its interests.
	A Company of emigrants, the first of the
season, arrived at this city on the 26th ult.,
being 22 days from Liverpool. Many friends
were at the Utah Central depot, to welcome
the new comers, who appeared full of life and
vigor—very little like the condition in which
the early pioneers to these valleys were wont
to find themselves after months of hardship and
fatigue, crossing the plains with ox teams or on
foot.
	On Wednesday, June 18th, President George
A. Smith and Mr. Thomas W. Jennings, of the
Palestine party, arrived at Evanston where
they were met, warmly welcomed and escorted
home to this city, by President Brigham Young,
Mrs. B. W. Smith and a large party of friends
and relations. Both gentlemen appear to have
been in all respects benefitted by the travels
and experience they have had, yet, are heartily
glad to be at home again among the Latter-day
Saints. President Smith gave some interesting
accounts of portions of his journey, in a dis-
course delivered in the New Tabernacle, on
Sunday, the 22.
	When our last issue went to press, it was
anticipated that ere another fortnight had past
away Sister Eliza R. Snow would again join
her Friends in Utah, after her long and pleasant
journey to Palestine, and back. In this, how-
ever, her numerous friends here can well, bear
with being a little disappointed, when they
realize that she is still enjoying herself while
yet absent from home, visiting among old
friends and relatives, with her brother, in the
States; while again our readers are favored with
fine productions from her pen, and may feel
certain of having the pleasure soon of bidding
her welcome back to Salt Lake.
	Pleasure excursions to the Great Salt
Lake, and steam-boat trips on its broad bosom,
are becoming noted sources of recreation for
general holidays. The Lake possesses good
natural advantages for those who are fond of 
bathing; and with the increase of population, 
wealth and traveling facilities, we anticipate
seeing fine watering places spring up on the
shores of the “great inland sea” where our
citizens, and visitors from abroad, can enjoy,
in the hot summer time, the invigorating even-
ing breeze that blows from off the Lake,
bathing in its buoyant waters, its delightful
scenery, evening promenades, rides on the
beach, and moonlight excursions on the water.


How often a sound night's sleep changes
our feelings towards those who differ from 
us!  And how cautious, after this experi-
ence, should we be in our hasty, ill-digested
denunciations of the conduct and opinions
of others!


