SPLINTERS.

	At Colby University, Maine, a young lady
lately won the Sophomore prize for declama-
tions......A lad in Oregon died the other
day from the effects of a pistol shot in his
hand......“Impressions of America and
Americans,” by Miss Emily Faithful are
soon to be published......Housework is pro-
nounced most admirably calculated to pre-
serve a robust woman and to strengthen one
who is weak, by Queen Victoria’s chief
physician......It has been suggested in Lynn
County, Oregon, that every man or company
in the State, engaged in manufacturing from
raw material, be sought out and assisted by
advertizing......Mrs. Margaret Sangster suc-
ceeds Mrs. Mary M. Dodge who has resigned
her position on “Hearth and Home” and
goes abroad for health and recreation.......
Several ocean steamers leaving port, on the
fifty-fourth anniversary of Queen Victoria’s
birthday, were gaily decorated, and the day
was observed as a holiday throughout Eng-
land......Nevada is reported to have had a
phenomenon in the form of black frost......
Madam De Hazard, a Russian sculptress,
sent her three master-pieces, “L’Esperance,”
“Pace Generosa” and “L’Abbandonate” to
Vienna......Six hundred thousand dollars
was the consideration for which the cele-
brated Mono mine recently changed hands.
......Boise City, Idaho, is said to be the “dead-
est” place in the whole country, on Sundays,
on account of the very stringent enactment
of the Sunday liquor law......A New Jersey
farmer made $125 per cow, in a year, selling
milk at five cents a quart......A first class
unsectarian college for women is proposed
in Wilmington, Delaware..........Montana
has about eighteen millions of fertile acres
wanting occupiers.........A New Orleans
policeman got discharged for running
through the street and crying fire without
good cause for doing so......The State of
New Hampshire has sixty-one starch fac-
tories and makes from potatoes alone, three
thousand tons of starch in a year......The
North Pacific Commercial Company of
Puget Sound has gone into bankruptcy......
More hops are raised in Wisconsin than any
other State, and they are generally considered
to be productive of health......A calf born
without a tail is one of the late wonders in
Oregon......A ball was given in Wisconsin to
raise money to start a newspaper......A
pound of peat freshly dug contains fourteen
ounces of water......A good thing is said of
Illinois in that as a rule her best men are sup-
ported solely on their merits as men,
regardless of politics......Two of the “sur-
prises,” of modern history are protested
against by the Rev. Dr. Samuel Osgood—
the eight hour strikes, and woman suffrage...
It is estimated that $350,000 worth of fish are
caught yearly in the vicinity of Sandusky,
Ohio......“Wilful dishonesty” is the polite
charge which one editor makes of another
for copying his editorials and allowing them
to appear as orignal......Six Americans, five
English men, Six Irishmen, three Germans,
two Hollanders and one Belgian are students
at the college of St. Joseph, Mill Hill, Mid-
dlesex, England, to be educated for the
Roman Catholic mission.......Capy saloon
keepers sometimes take their pay for a
drink by being shot......Boston school girls
play foot ball......A treaty of alliance has
been concluded between Germany and Italy.
....Two thousand, two hundred more Chinese
landed at San Francisco one day recently.....
Six thousand acres of tobacc owere grown
in Rock County, Wisconsin, in one season.
Ex-President Thiers is reported to contem-
plate retiring soon to private life......Miss
Fanny Campbell, of Bozeman City, Montana,
has entered 160 acres of land, fulfilled the
conditions of settlement, got her deed and
is farming successfully......Miss Ray of the
same place, raised on her farm, year before
last, 60 acres of wheat......London journey-
men carpenters threaten a general strike for
higher wages......The glorious Fourth is
close at hand and is much talked of in differ-
ent parts of the country......Dutch cattle are
said to be enormous eaters but good milkers.
......A woman in Greeley, Colorado, has set
out 13,000 forest trees......The products of
California now include large quantities of
caster oil and mustard......A man in Illi-
nois counted up the Canada thistles in
that State and found them to cover ten
thousand acres......Mrs. Martha Everett has
been unanimously elected Superintendent
of the First Parish Sunday School at Dover,
Massachusetts......“Matilda,” a squaw who
has figured in the Modoc war, is said to
be a woman of considerable capacity, who
keeps the domicile of her lord, a white man,
as neat and tidy as any woman could......J.
Whang, a Maine farmer thinks the profits of
ten hens equal to that of one cow........Great
quantities of poor American cheese are said
to be sold in England for hog feed.......In
Tulare Co., California, it costs $18 per acre
to prepare land for a vineyard and plant
cuttings.......An agreement has been signed
by a number of ladies in Nashville,
Tennessee, to abstain from wearing any out-
ward adornment, or other than the plainest
sort of apparel on Sunday......A San Fran-
cisco woman was arrested the other morning
for disturbing the peace, afterwards was
herself disturbed by imaginary rats which
came with delirium tremens.......A Lynn Co.,
Missouri farmer, with only the aid of two
sons, raised, in one season, over 10,000
pounds of tobacco, from which he realized
over $800 net profit......The ladies of Fort
Wayne, Indiana, contemplate founding a
home for the friendless in that city......The
anniversary of the death of the great novel-
ist, Dickens, which occcurred three years
ago, was appropriately observed at Boffins’s
Bower, Boston, during the first week in
June.


