WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


of meeting with the sisters in Farmington
and thought it a good plan to visit one
another, for improvement could be gained
by so doing. She touched on the duty of
wives, said they should be co-workers with
their husbands and in speaking of plurality
said we should uphold it before our young.
Her mind was full but she would give way
for others, asking God to bless all interested
in the work of salvation. Mother Sessions,
who is 78 years of age, next addressed the
meeting. She was highly gratified and felt
that a good spirit was there—had been inter-
ested in hearing the minutes read. In
speaking of the Relief Society she said:
“Thanks be to the Lord who has commenced
this work through the instrumentality of
His Elders.” She felt a timidity in rising
to speak, old as she was, but was determined
when called upon to perform every duty.
She gave some good advice to mothers, tell-
ing them they should never say anything
against their husbands before their children,
but strive to be cheerful and always meet
their husbands with a smile, for no man was
likely to withstand a woman’s smile. She
thought plural marriage would prove our
salvation if lived right; one should never
notice failings in other wives, but speak of
all the good they had done, and give credit
when it was due. Mothers should teach
their children the Word of Wisdom for
over six years the speaker had not used tea
or coffee, and her health was good. The
brethren present, Elders Job Welling, Hec-
tor Haight, James Smith and Levi Thornton,
followed with interesting remarks. Brother
Welling said the Society had done well and
its affairs had been judiciously conducted.
He had been edified in hearing sister Ses-
sions and said it was mothers who formed
the minds of children. In speaking of the
Relief Societies, he said so long as they ex-
isted they would lighten the burdens of the
Bishops, and that President Young knew at
the commencement, the good they would
do. Brothers Haight and Smith in their
remarks said one motive they had in coming
to meeting was to get the sisters interested
in the Sunday School, as the future de-
pended on the rising generation. Other
remarks were made, brother Thornton giv-
ing some useful suggestions. President
Mrs. Holmes felt that they ought to be thank-
ful for the visit of their sisters from
Bountiful and gave notice that the Society
would have a pic-nic party to be held at Mrs.
Stuarts, on Friday, the 20th inst., and
invited all to attend. After which, meeting
was adjourned for four weeks. Singing,
and closing prayer by Elder Job Welling.
				A.S. Rogers, Secretary.


﻿Late in Life.—Stewart has made the
greater part of his wealth since he became a
man of advanced years. It is said that
George Peabody made but little until he
had passed fifty. The same may be said of
Stewart. At fifty he was worth about a
million—now he has probably twenty-five
times as much. This is a lesson which
shows the importance of improving the
latter hours in life. Some men retire from
business as age steals on, This is a great
mistake. No men are so unhappy as those
who abandon the habits of a busy life. No
one should retire from trade until he is sure
of some busy employment in another sphere,
Mr. Stewart knows that he is happier while
at the head of his emmense trade than if he
were doing nothing. Men who retire from
business become nervous and fretful, or else
sink into mere fatuity, from having nothing
to do. Work is the thing for old and
young, if they wish to escape these dan-
gers.


