THE FARMER IS THE KING OF MEN.

	I do not mean the plodding, listless, aim-
less farmer who thinks himself “condemned”
to farming by lack of ability to do anything
else. I think the farmer should have the
best head, heart and frame in the land; and
it arouses my utmost indignation to hear of
a father selecting those he deems most in-
telligent of his sons to be educated for
lawyers, doctors, merchants, etc., and saying
of the one he thinks dull, “He’ll have to 
stay on the farm; he’s not the capacity to
fill a learned profession.”
	Thus they are taught that little intellect
is requisite for a farmer, and if a young
man has any he must seek a broader field
for its display. He thinks the red-handed
butcher of men a hero, but a farmer is
contemptible. I do not mean the farmer
who adopts this opinion and harbors poor
esteem of himself and his occupation, who
goes without animation to his heavy, un-
methodical drudgery. “He” is no king. I
mean the man who chooses to be a farmer 
and makes a fine art of it; who loves to
watch the developments of nature, animate
and inanimate; who loves the smell of the
upturned soil; who takes unalloyed delight
in his substantial barns, stables, paddocks
and their inmates; who breathes the dewy
air of morning or the odor of new-mown
hay with keener relish than he could sip
the wine of revelry or adulation. I mean
the man who has a real paternal love for his
tidy lanes and fences, his billowy expanses
of cereals, his fruit and ornamental trees,
his gravel walks, his commodious buildings,
his thorough-bred stock—his superb horses,
his superior cows and oxen, his fine-wooled
sheep—ah! he is the king of men.
	Full of health and vigor, ready to act his
part in life, thankful to God for all his bless-
ings, he takes large views of life willingly
accords to human and brute all the enjoyment
for which they were created, and never
degenerates into a petty tyrant.
	His gains are not wrung from the scanty
purse of widows and orphans toiling for
him at starvation prices, nor obtained from
the bursting from some speculative bubble
which fills his coffers just in proportion to
the depletion of others.
	None are poorer, but all richer for his
success; because his gains are won from the
still unimpoverished elements and coined in
the mint of Nature with her own divine
impress upon them. He takes no man’s
money without a fair equivalent; by
his labor the world is fed and is also
largely indebted to him for apparel and
luxury. He is the rich foundation on which
the natural superstructure rests; and so long
as this brotherhood is pure, strong, noble,
the combined powers of earth cannot over-
throw that nation.
	He looks up to God, not with guilty fear
but with reverence and love, as to a father
and a friend from whom his most secret
thoughts need not be hidden. He has a
robust body which does not detract from,
but supports his mental superiority. He
cultivates his intellect as assiduously as he
does his fields, and uproots evil habits as in-
dustriously as he does weeds and brambles.
	As grain, standard fruits and other staples
must have his first care in farming, so the
solid acquirements of mind receive first and
best attention; and as he would not be with-
out the variety of fruits and vegetables,
vines and flowers, neither would he pass
over as useless, light and graceful literature,
music and dacing; and while making the
stirling virtue of character his unwavering
aim, he will never neglect the little charm-
[new column]
ing courtesies which make life so sweet.
	Such is my ideal of a man, a gentleman,
“the image of God;” and I would rather be
such a man or the wife of such, than the
proudest monarch thatever sat upon a throne.
And I would teach my son ratther to aim
at such a life as the most blessed under the
sun, than see him eloquent as Cicero and
wealthy as a Rothschild, without this keen
love of nature and all natural excellence,
which are indispensible to the character of
my ideal farmer and king of men. 
							L. L. D.


