FLOWERS. 

	A man that hoards riches and enjoys
them not, is like an ass that carries gold
and eats thistles.
	Neither death nor life is as serious as
marriage. Yet nothing is entered into
more thoughtlessly. 
	Value the friendship of him who stands
by you in a storm; swarms of insects will-
surround you in sunshine.
	To be humble to superiors is duty; to
equals, is courtesy; to inferiors, is nobleness;
and to all, safety; it being a virtue that, for
all her lowliness, commandeth the soul it
stoops to.
	Man is the victim of discontent. He
either looks for happiness in his recollections
of the past, or seeks it in the brilliant visions,
which his fancy has created of futurity;
whereas the present should be the moment
of enjoyment and preparation for the future.
	“When a stranger treats me with want
of respect” said a poor philosopher, “I com-
fort myself with the reflection that it is not 
myself that he slights, but my old and shab-
by hat and cloak, which, to say the truth,
have no particular claim to adoration. So,
if my hat and cloak choose to fret about it,
let them, but it’s nothing to me.”
	Kind words are the bright flowers of
earth’s existance; they make a very para-
dise of the humblest home the world can
show. Use them, and especially around
the fire side circle. They are jewels beyond
price, and more precious to heal the
wounded heart and make the weighed down
spirits more glad than all other blessings the
world can give.
	It is worth noting that civility has always
had luck as an ally. There is a story told
of some gentleman, who, on a battlefield,
happening to bow with much grace to some
officer who addressed him, a cannon ball
just went through his hair, and took off the
head of another one. The officer, when he
saw his marvelous escape, justly observed
that man lost nothing by politeness.
	LOCKE was once asked how he had con-
trived to accumulate a mind of knowledge
so rich, deep and extensive. He replied,
that he attributed what little he knew, to
his not having been ashamed to ask for in-
formation, and to the rule he had adopted,
of conversing with all descriptions of men
on those topics, chiefly, that formed their
own peculiar professions or pursuits.
	You cannot subdue selfishness without a
struggle. You cannot restrain pride with-
out a conflict. You cannot go through life
without bearing burdens. But you are
going to have help under circumstances that
will redeem you from these things. You
are going to experience more victories than
defeats. Your sufferings will be only here
and there little spots in a whole field of
peace and joy.


﻿Horace Greeley remarks a follows upon
fame and his epitaph in his “Recollections
of a Busy life;” Fame is a vapor; popularity
an accident; riches take wings, the only
earthly certainty is oblivion. And yet I
cherish the hope that the journal I projected
and established will live and flourish long
after I shall have mouldered into forgotten
dust, being guided by a larger wisdom,
a more unerring sagacity to discern the
right, though not by a more unfaltering
readiness to embrace and defend it at what-
ever personal cost; and that the stone that
covers my ashes may bear to future ages the
still intelligible inscription: “Founder of
the New York Tribune.”


﻿How well society drills us!—that we
meet with such calm impassiveness, in its
routine, those with whom we have sorrowed,
joyed, loved, and hated, in such different
scenes.—“Oiuda.”


