FACTS AND FIGURES.

	Iron, in place of stone, is being used for
memorial tablets over graves.
	In one of the shoe factories, at Lynn,
Mass., a man has used the same bench for
over forty years.
	A boy, aged thirteen years,  committed
suicide by hanging himself in Schuylkill
County, recently.
	In Montevideo, Uruguay, beer is said to
sell for one dollar a glass, while sheep cost
ten cents a piece.
	A flash of lightning singed all the hair
off a man's head in Wisconsin lately, but
otherwise did him no harm. 
	An expert thief, in New Haven, Conn.,
stole a quanty of valuable lace from the dress
of a lady, while in church.  
	The poor taxpayers of New York City
eke out a miserable existance on $1,04,453,-
633 worth of real and personal estate.
	Three-fourths of the women of Boston
dare not sneeze with their mouths open,
owing to their inability, to hold on to their
teeth.
	It is estimated that in Paris more than
2,000 persons of both sexes make their liv-
ing by gathering rags and other refuse in
the streets.
	A young woman from Allegheny, called
at a Pittsburgh book store the other morn-
ing for a "deck of them new posted kerds;
double-headers.”
	A Louisville woman bought a feather
bed the other day and found a shot bag in
it containing four hundred and seventy
dollars in bank notes.
	The price of gold has not declined in the
principal markets of the world, although
the annual product has increased four-fold
within thirty years. 
	Europeans are amusing themselves with
a book, purporting to give the letters the
Grand Duke Alexis received from young
ladies while in this country.
One of the newest rifles submitted to M.
Thiers possesses the advantage that the
cartridges to suit it can be manufactured
even on the field of battle.
	As a gentleman was walking along one of
the streets in Terre Haute, Ind., the other
day, a wild pigeon flew into his face break-
ing its wing and blacking his eye.
	Benjamin D. Emerson accumulated
$250,000 and died at Jamaica Plains, near
Boston. He was for many years a school
teacher, but didn’t save most of his money
at the business.
	Killingly is touched by a recent wed- 
ding, at which the bride wore the beautiful
pink silk stockings which her mother wore
at her own wedding, thirty-five years ago.
	A clock, formerly the property of General
Washington, was disposed of at a sale in
West Philadelphia, recently. The case is
of polished ebony, richly mounted with
ormolu gilt ornaments.
	A Montgomery, Mass., couple in the
neighborhood of seventy-five years of age,
were married the other day at five o’clock
in the morning. The happy old couple took
an early start in order to catch the train
which bore them on their wedding tour.
	A grocer died of small-pox in Washing-
ton the other day, and as no undertaker
could be found to attend the burial, the
widow, being unwilling that the body of
her husband should he conveyed to the
grave in the Board of Health ambulance,
purchased a hearse specials, paying $240
therefor.


