CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW. 
	Steamer Wisconsin, June 4, 1873. 
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	My Dear Lula:—We are seven days out
from Liverpool—have had smooth sea, and, 
thus far, a very prosperous passage. Our 
steamer affords the best accommodations of
any we have patronized on our tour—the
staterooms are more commodious and the
births and lounges broader and less pent up,
giving sufficient lattitude for an ordinary
sized person, at least, to move. Captain
Freeman is a sociable, cheerful man, ap-
parently much liked by crew and passengers,
and we are as well satisfied as possible with
our home in the midst of the waters. 
	I wrote you last at Hamburg in Germany,
the 16th of May; that evening we took
steamer for London, where we arrived
on the evening of the 18th and put up
at "Cook's Boarding House," Great Rus-
sell Street, where we stopped on our outward
tour, and experienced quite a home-feeling
on our return, especially when joined, as we 
were, in the course of the evening by our
excellent mutual young friend and brother, 
Elder Junius F. Wells. Here President
Smith received a letter from brother Paul
A. Schettler, who parted with us at Berlin
to visit his relatives, and collect genealo-
gies, expecting to join us at this point; 
stating that his old aquaintances gathered
around him in great numbers, and were so 
anxious to hear him converse, that he should
require more time than he had anticipated, 
unless President Smith particularly coun-
seled otherwise. The party now consists of 
President George A. Smith, my brother
Lorenzo Snow, T. W. Jennings and myself
being highly favored with the company of
Emigration Agent, W. C. Staines, who is 
returning from Europe to New York. 
	In London we attended Conference with
the Saints, on Sunday, in the Grand Amphi-
theatre, Holborn, where their meetings 
were held and well attended—President
Carrington remarked that the assemblies in
the afternoon and evening were larger than 
he had seen at any previous Conference.
The Spirit of the Lord was free and power-
ful and the Saints rejoiced much on that
occasion—testimonies were borne of a very
interesting nature, and it is to be hoped that
some seed fell on good ground—suffice it to
say, the Saints had a refreshing time. Here
I met sister Mercy R. Thompson, whom we
left in London on our way East. 
	On the 27th we left for Liverpool, where 
we experienced much kindness from Pres-
dent Carrington who accompanied us from
[new column]
London, and also from brother George F. 
Gibbs, of the Millennial Star office; and on 
the 28th went on board the “Wisconsin."
We now feel that we are on our way home,
although my brother and I anticipate spend-
ing a few days in the Eastern States, with
our relatives. Since abroad, I have neither
had time, nor allowed myself to think very
much of home, except in those seasons of
devotion and holy aspirations, when higest
interests, and dearest objects are ever
present with us! but when I shall be per-
mitted to reach that point, I feel it will
superseed every other in interest.
	Woman’s Exponent, of which I have
received a few numbers, is to me, the best
representative of Utah, for in that I see so
many familiar names, and repeated testi-
monies of the continued energies, and stead-
fastness of many of the mothers and
daughters of Zion, in promoting her welfare;
in which I shall be most happy to rejoice
with them, and reunite my weak efforts in
the great, common, glorious cause.

	We’ve sailed on many an ocean,
		And entered many a port —
	View’d many a princly Palace,
		And many a lordly Court.

	Seen many Marques and Churches,
		And witness'd service there
	And how unlike the Gospel,
		Their modes of worship are.

	How long shall superstition,
		Priestcraft and ign’rance bind 
	In chains our fe'low beings
		And dwarf their powers of mind?
	
	By undisputed tokens.
		His favor’d people know
	That God again has spoken”
		From heav'n, to man below:

	And that the glorious Gospel 
		Meets every mortal need;
	While Truth Eternal triumphs
		O'er every human Creed.

	By faith, and works united, 	
		Through Jesus' blood made free;
	How noble, pure, and Godlike,
		The lives of Saints should be!

	Safe from the fierce destroyer
		That on the water rides;
	And "terra firma" dangers,
		The Lord our pathway guides.
	
	From many a stranger country,
		And many a foreign strand,
	We now are sailing homeward,
		Towards our native land. 
	To those who have an eye to see and a
heart to understand, the hand of God has
been manifest in dispensing blessings
to us as tourists: From calamities and 
dangers by storms at sea in front and 
rear, we have escaped; and without any 
interruption, worth of note either by sea or
land, for which we feel truly grateful. We 
expect but a short stay in New York, which
you will accept as an apology for my writing
as I am doing, trying to make the move-
ments of my pen correspond with the undu-
lating motion of the ship, which is not the
easiest thing imaginable, as you will per-
ceive by my tremulous scribbling.
						Eliza R. Snow.


﻿Old Shoe.—Old Shoes have their uses—
a fact which few people realize, as they cast-
off foot covering into the ash-barrel. What
does become of all the boots and shoes?
Many of them are cut into small pieces and
put into chloride of sulphur for a few days.
This makes the leather brittle, and after
it has been washed and thoroughJy dried it
is ground to powder and mixed with a sort
of gum, or glue. It is then pressed into
moulds, and buttons, combs, knife-handles,
and similar articles are the result. So much
for old shoes.


