EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Terrible scourges in Nashville, Tennes-
see, seem to have polluted the very air; by
which fifty deaths were occasioned in one
day, recently.
	Frank Walworth, the New York par-
ricide, will likely be acquitted, as his
lawyers expect to prove that, he had just
cause for firing on his father.
	Among the late reports of disasters, and
destruction in all portions of the earth, come
those of conflagrations of notable magnitude
in New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.
	Chicago is going to have an Exposition
in September, and anticipates a more suc-
cessful affair than that of her late Jubilee;
and even that—she is not to blame for trying
to prove was not altogether a failure.
	A woman’s college is being built in Chi-
cago, the founder of which donated a quarter
of a million of dollars, and very graciously
and appropriately permitted his wife to
assist in the ceremonies of the occasion of
laying the corner stone.
	The Empress Augusta of Germany has
visited Vienna in the place of the Emperor
who, on account of ill health, was unable to
go himself. Her reception is reported to
have been an enviable one, and she doubt-
less did honor to the commission, assigned
her.
	An interesting history of the early
days of Captain Jack, the Modoc Chieftain,
in circulation through some of the news-
papers; in which he is shown to have been
of the desperado character when quite
young. His career as pictured, has been a
crooked one. 
	“Mormon Life in Utah," is one subject
which Mrs. Duniway of Oregon has selected
to lecture upon, in that State.  We are not
informed in what way she treats the subject,
but one thing we can say; if she understands
and tells the truth about it, there is no
worthier theme that could be dwelt upon.
	A local editor in Georgia, thinks one
evidence of the fact that the Negro race
can never be civilized was shown in the
circumstance of a darkey clerk immedi-
ately returning to thoughtful owner, a hun-
dred dollar bank note, which had been over
paid.  In any case, such a representative of
a race, in these days, is not liable to be pro-
moted. 
	In Portland, Maine, and Lowell, Massa-
chusetts, the Young Women’s Christian
Associations have formed the worthy plan
of opening houses as temporary homes for
women who enter those cities as strangers
in search of employment; and in the former
city, some gentlemen have shown timely
generosity  by giving $5,000 to aid the
cause. 
	It is gratifying to note that the subject of
reform in dress is receiving marked and
increasing attention from women of sense in
different parts of the country; and it is to be
hoped that it will be dwelt upon more and
more elaborately until women become so
bold as to assert their independence by dress-
ing comfortably and reasonably, regardless
of fashion.
	Number 46, volume 2 of Mrs. A. J.
Duniway’s pleasant publication, “The New
North West,” Portland, Oregon, comes to
hand hearing date June 20th, after a little
season of vacation and rest. Mrs. Duniway
is a lady of good sense and feeling, who has
done much for the “Woman’s Cause,” and
the reissue of her paper will receive a
hearty welcome from many.
	As might have been anticipated, Judge
Hunt, in the trial of Susan B. Anthony, for
illegal voting at Rochester, New York, gave
the decision that each State and not the
United States, has the power and authority
to judge for its own citizens in relation to
sex and other qualifications. Miss Anthony
is a shrewd woman, does not give up the
chase and at the next general election, will
probably, be allowed to vote as she deserves
to do without molestation.
	If laws prohibiting the free sale and
use of liquors are not to be rigidly enforced
soon, who is to provide for the helpless
wives and children of the constantly increas-
ing numbers of inebriates throughout the
country? The larger portion of 1,791 appli-
cants, who for three months have received
aid of the San Francisco Benevolent Society,
at the cost of $5,347, were of the above
mentioned unfortunates. Is it to be won-
dered at, that wemen seek for means of
self-support, and desire to have a voice in
the establishment of laws by which they
and their children are to be governed?
	According to a late telegram, the New
York Board of Health is busy in enforcing
proper sanitary measures against a probable
visit from the cholera. As the dread dis-
ease hits already commenced its ravaged in
some of the distant cities, the amount of
travel is so great and rapid, it might even
find its way like the Epizootic, to these
mountain valleys. In any case, the example
of New York in taking precautionary
measures for mitigating and preventing as
far as possible, the destructive course of this
and other contagious diseases, might be
followed with advantage by smaller cities,
especially as the hot summer weather has
come, with its power to increase the threat-
ened evil. 
	Dr. Elisha Harris, of New York, avers,
after careful investigation, that eighty per
cent of the criminals of that State are ad-
dicted to intoxicating drinks; in proof of
which, he cites a number of instances where
men naturally kindly and peaceably dis-
posed, have been led, while under the
influence of the liquor fiend, to commit all
sorts of horrible crimes, such as their souls
would revolt from in moments of soberness.
A little serious contemplation upon this
subject, readily evinces that the above state
ment may be, in all probability, correct of
other States as well as New York. In many
cases, intelligent, worthy men, good and
useful citizens yield to the tempting
demon of intemperance until they loose
their self respect and become reckless, hate-
ful tools in the hands of the evil one,
instead of accomplishing the generous,
noble works which might have been theirs
to perform. There is no reform more neces-
sary, and none that could be more productive
of universal good than that which is
being agitated in relation to the sale, and use
of intoxicating drinks.
	The aphorism “Don’t fret, for fretting
will do no good,” though so often repeated
is worth remembering every day. Worry, 
rather than work wears out and breaks down 
more constitutions, perhaps, than any other
ailment. With some, it seems almost una- 
voidable, this constant care and anxiety, 
which is ever to be found in abundance by 
all who will take the trouble to pick it up,
in passing over the rough places in life’s 
pathway, and endeavoring to climb con-
stantly, instead of falling back. But it 
doesn’t pay to form the disagreeable habit
of looking for difficulties, and eyeing them as
through a magnifying glass, as people do in 
many cases, mourning over imaginary woes, 
if they happen to lose sight of the real ones.
It is not profitable to go about seeking for 
some sympathetic ear in which to pour the
petty grievances of every-day life, nor to 
sit morbidly down and sigh over them.
Rather rise above them, though it should
require, at times, an almost superhuman
exertion. It does not evince unconscious-
ness of pain or pleasure, or an insentient 
nature, the throwing off or casting aside, 
the weight of conflicting, discordant cir-
cumstances, which occur in every life, to 
shut out the sunlight of the soul and mar
the peaceful visions of man’s bright hours. 
It betokens a well balanced and powerful
mind, to be able to see the light through 
darkening clouds, and to be hopeful despite
vexatious scenes of trial and discontent,
although great men have sometimes given 
way to worryment and died of grief over 
things for which there was no help.
	A cotemporary speaks of having been 
a careful and interested reader of the Wo-
man’s Exponent for some months past, 
with the object of getting at the “Mormon 
view of the Mormon question,” and learning 
“on what grounds they justify polygamy;” 
yet acknowledges to having “met with very 
little success, as there are only occasional
allusions to their peculiar institution.” Not
being aware that any one, to whom the
system of plurality of wives is so very 
obnoxious as our friendly cotemporary
expresses it as appearing to herself, could
have any desire to study into the mysteries 
or learn, of its justifyable features, the Ex-
ponent has taken but little trouble to give
“first lessons” on the subject; but thinks, 
however, that sufficient has been stated, to 
throw some light upon it, to the mind of 
the careful and interested reader, possessed 
of anything like a comprehensive and un-
biased nature. The object of the Exponent
is the spread of peace and good-will and 
although it holds to every principle of truth
and right, so far as its understanding ex-
tends, the law of Celestial marriage with
the rest it sees no good to be derived from 
dwelling continuously, or often on one
subject, however worthy particularly the
one so much harped upon, and hated by a
majority who refuse to look at it in a proper
or reasonable light.  Enough has been
written concerning polygamy, before the
Exponent existed, that any one desiring to
know the Mormon view of it, need not he
left in the dark for want of works from
which to glean light.


