HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Home should be rendered a pleasant place
to the children, that they may not be driven
therefrom to seek pleasure and amusement
elsewhere, and, as a natural consequence,
mingle with the vain, the frivolous, and
even the vicious. Let their chief delight
be found at home, and they will not easily
be led astray. A mother should strive with
never-ceasing energy to instruct their minds
and their hearts; to cultivate their moral
natures, and by kindness, gentleness, and
love, twine their affections about her, and
forever retain them. She can exert a
greater influence over them than any other
being on the earth, and when that influence
is properly directed, it is their greatest safe-
guard in after life, when the days of trial
and temptation shall come, and they can no
longer claim the protection of the parental
roof-tree. Then how great is her respon-
sibility! Immortal souls are intrusted to
her care to be fitted for eternity! Where
pure love is, there can be no evil, for it
touches with a finger of life the germs of
good, and blossoms of purity lift their sweet
faces to kiss the hand of God’s benediction.
Because her life was so full of real goodness
to us, chastened with suffering, and sorrow
and pain, how beautiful and holy are the
sweet and sacred memories of the mother
of our childhod; with what soft, hazy folds
is her image draped in the consecrated niche
in the temple of our fondest memories! Oft
when kneeling in the deepening shadows,
after the nightly thanksgiving for the day’s
blessings has gone up, while waiting in the
wing-swept hush for the up-raised, trustful
petition to bring an answer down, we
remember the soft caressing touch of her
loving hand, as in old, far-away days, when
her knee was the altar from which our
simple prayers were wafted heaven-ward;
and the thoughts that now go out to her,
across the wide abyss of years, are the pure
white wings of a dove, full of music, cleav-
ing the silver and violet clouds of the
morning, for everything that our memory
touches of her life is full of the radiant
beauty of goodness. And it should be the
aim and delight of every mother, to live so
that her beautiful example may be so re-
membered by her children.
	Ventilation.—Opportunity for the in-
gress of pure air, and the egress of that
which is impure, is absolutely requisite in
the construction of every house. Previous
to the introduction of stoves as warming
apparatus for houses, those were moderately
well ventilated by the open grates and fire-
places which they contained. The pure
air, because cold, rushed down the chimney
and becoming warm by passing the fire,
spread through the house, giving life to its
inmates. Through the same opening the
rarified air, being lighter, ascended, and
thus constantant renewal was had. In those
days ventilation was not studied, because no
additional means were needed for it. Ne-
cessity being the mother of invention, where
no necessity existed, means were not
studied, because additional means for it
were not needed. Hence, in those days
ventilation was not discussed; and yet
men and especially women, maintained a
degree of health and vigor and hardiness of
constitution, which are both the marvel and
envy of modern times. Grandmother’s
vigor and personal endowments are still the
desired, but despaired of prize, of modern
ambition. Wherein consists the remarkable
change since then? Whence the dyspepsias,
nervous derangements, female weaknesses,
consumptions, etc., of our time? Through
the closing of fireplaces by the invention of
stoves. By this change in household
arrangments the inmates of our houses have
been largely deprived of the life-giving
oxygen, the vital air of the atmosphere.
Every breath we draw, every lamp that
burns, every fire that warms us, consumes
this air in large quantities; and if it is not
replenished by constant ingress from the
stores of nature, we must grow dull, weak,
pale, inert and finally succumb to death.
And yearly, millions go down to untimely
graves, and the groans of the dying are
constantly heard, as the result of want of
ventilation. It has taken us a long time to
learn this fact; and even now it is imper-
fectly understood. Men who argue for ven-
tilation are considered as fanatics, and the
idea remains new-fangled to many.
	Houses, then, should be properly venti-
lated. If no other means have been pro-
vided, every window should be arranged
with pulleys and fastenings, so as to be
readily lowered from the top and raised from
the bottom. An opening is necessary, part
of the time at least, in all weathers, if the
room is inhabited. There must be a con-
stant change of air, and this cannot be
effected through closed windows or imperv-
ious doors.—"Science of Health.”
	Flower-Garden and Lawn. Box.—
This beautiful edging must be clipped, to
keep it in proper shape, and in August is
the proper time to do it.
	Climbers require to be neatly tied up
to show off to best advantage. A few small
iron brackets screwed to the posts of the
piazza or side of the house, and galvanized
iron-wire stretched between the brackets,
will make very serviceable supports, as they
allow a free circulation of air between the
house and vines.
	Grass.—Edgings and borders, need a good
deal of attention in order to look well, and
if cared for often, will require but little
time. The lawn needs mowing over at least
every week or ten days, in order to make
it look well.


Hon. John A. Bingham, late member of
Congress from Ohio, has been appointed
Minister to Japan, vice De Long, removed.
	An effort is being made in Paris, to intro- 
duce pattern dress goods into market, in
place of the plain fabrics which have ruled
so long.
	A Western exchange hits the fashionable
church-goers quietly and handsomely and
proposes that the seats in the churches be
arranged on pivots, so that the devotional
portion of the congregation who enter the
church at a reasonable hour, may more con-
veniently turn round and examine the 
elaborate toilets and decorations of the late
comers,  whose entry fifteen or twenty
minutes after service has commenced is
apparently designed to be spectacular and
to attract the notice and admiration of the 
audience, in utter disregard of the annoy-
ance it occasions the minister.
	A Blood Spring in Kentucky.—The
Bowling Green (Ky.) “Democrat” says:
“We understand that Mr. Calvin Liles, who
resides in the Three Forks neighborhood,
in this county, has a peculiar well on his
farm. In the spring of the year the water
that runs from the spring looks like blood.
The bloody looking water runs from it twice
a week, but ony for a few moments at
a time. During the fall the bloody water
runs but once a week; and after the disap-
pearance of the bloody hue, the water 
assumes a purplish one, which soon passes
off. The water is said to be very delightful 
to the taste.”


