THE SEX.
	Mrs. Smith, of the “Inland Monthly,” is
endeavoring to organize a woman’s printing
company in St. Louis.
	The pension agent at Augusta, Me., pays
twelve widows for services rendered by
their husbands in the revolutionary war.
	The Catholic clergy, of Iglan, Moravia,
induced 400 women to sign a petition
against the appointment of a Jewish teacher
at the village public school.
	An orator, speaking of “woman, lovely
woman,” concluded thus: “Depend upon it,
my friends, nothing beats a good wife.”
“I beg your pardon,” said one of his hearers,
“a bad husband does.”
	A woman in Chester interfered with her
brother’s courtship, and begged him to stay
at home in the evenings. He waited until
the evening, when she expected her own
lover, and complied, and she says fraternal
affection is a heartless mockery.
	Miss Francis E. Willard, President of the
Evanston College for Ladies, has received 
an appointment from Governor Beveridge, as
the Commissioner from the State of Illinois
to the “Women’s Centennial Jubilee” to be 
held in Philadelphia, in July, 1876.
	Lady Shelley, who died recently in Eng-
land, was the person who made a copy of
the confidential letter which the duke of
Wellington wrote to Sir John Burgoyne on
the defenseless state of the kingdom, and
sent it to the London “Morning Post.”
	Mrs. Carey, sister of Senator Stewart, has
been appointed postmistress at her native
town in Ohio, with a salary of $2,200. She
presided over the household of Senator
Stewart during the absence of his family in
Europe, and is a very charming and estima-
ble lady—and a widow.
	Miss Fannie H. Richards, late engrossing
Clerk of the Iowa Senate, has accepted a
position on the editorial staff of the State
Printing Company, and is daily engaged in
preparing copy for the fifty papers now sup-
plied with auxiliary sheets by the Des Moines
institution.
	Every noble and every great man is but
a mirror to reflect his mother’s virtues, and
the noblest sentiments that have fended to 
promote our fame, and honor, and glory as
a nation, are but developments of the simple 
but sacred words which first fell from a 
mother’s lips.—“Smith’s Magazine.”
	Mrs. Levi Woodbury, who was a belle in
President Jackson’s day, when her husband
was Secretary of the Navy, spends her sum-
mers with her daughters, at her old home
in Portsmouth, N. H., and may often be 
seen riding on horseback alone in the sub-
urbs of that delightful old town.
	There are women who love solitude and
live in it, who realize the idea that they 
seek no joy but that which flows from the
depth of their own inner beings. Very few
people understand what infinite advantages
exist in solitude, especially for woman. If 
she be married and have children, her
famiy circle is her solitude; if the contrary
be the case, her solitude is absolute, one “in
which she can actually live alone.”
	In 1848 a French woman, who earned her
living by washing, was passing in the
streets of Paris, when a pistol was fired at
M. Thiers. The bullet missed the intended
victim, and lodged in the flesh of the woman.
She is now in her fifty-ninth year, and en-
joys saying to the ex-President, I received
in my arms the bullet which was destined
for you in 1818.”


