				R. S. REPORTS.

	From the 3rd Ward, Provo City, May
28th, 1873:  We, as a Society, are doing
about as well as we know how. We are but
a few in this ward, but are pressing onward
and working for the good cause, assisting
the poor that are among us, and gathering
means together to build us a house, or a
store, and intend to do so as soon as possi-
ble. As fast as I can raise more subscrip-
tions I will forward them.
			Yours respectfully, 
					M, John, Secretary.

					Coalville, Summit Co.
							June 3rd, 1873 
Editor Woman’s Exponnt:—
	Knowing the interest manifested in the
columns of your excellent paper in the pro-
gress, etc., of the various Relief Societies
organized in Utah, perhaps at this late hour
a few items from the Coalville Relief
Society may not he deemed uninteresting
to your readers.
	The Coalville Relief Society was organ-
ized by Bishop W. W. Cluff on the 9th day
of January, 1868, M. A. Walton, President
A.Cluff and J. Boyden, Counselors; K.
Merrill, Secretary and M. Cahoon, Treasurer.
It grew and answered the purposes of its
organization, under the able management
of Sister Walton’s presidency; but owing to
her continued ill health she resigned and
Sarah Wild was appointed to succeed her;
and upon the demise of Sister R, Merril, J.
Boyden was appointed Secretary “pro tem.”
During Sister Wild’s presidency the Society
was successful in relieving those who were
in need, and prospered under her unceasing
labor.  In October in 1872, Sister Wild
resigned, intending to accompany her hus-
band, Bishop Wild, on his mission to
England; and Sister Eliza Rhead was
appointed in her place, whose attention is
unremitting for the benefit of the Society.
	The word “Female,” pursuant to the
counsel given, was detached from the name
of the Society at our Quarterly meeting, held
December last. The following is a brief
statement of the finances of the Society from
the commencement to May 31st, 1873.
	Amount received from donations and
other sources, $1,140:70 amount from work
done gratuitously by members of Society,
sewing, etc., $420:15;  total, $1,660:85.
Amount disbursed to the, sick, etc., and
paid for emigration purposed, $1,310:85;
amount invested in the Co-operative Store,
Railroad  shares, and Millinery Business,
$200; leaving a balance now on hand of $50.
				Respectfully, 
					 J. Boyden, Secretary.
	
				First Ward, Provo City,
					   June 18th, 1873.
DEAR EDITOR— 
	I can say that I am thankful to my
Heavenly Father that my name is numbered
with the Latter-day Saints; therefore I wish
to mingle my voice with my sisters in bear-
ing testimony to the truth of this glorious
work.  We live in a very important time;
and the Lord has counted us worthy to he
the daughters, of Zion.  Wherefore let us
endeavor to live our religion.  Let us be
prayerful and obedient to the Priesthood,
and to all the commandments of God. I am
thankful I can truly say that I never have
felt to disregard any Iaw which has been
given, not even polygamy which is con-
sidered so great a trial and has been such to
me as well as many of my sisters. But do
we regret it to day? No! I am thankful
that I am in polygamy and have been for
seventeen years and I hope to gain a salva-
tion in the Celestial Kingdom of God, with
the tried and faithful.  Since the Relief
Societies have been organized, we have
been called to act in responsible places.  I
can say to the credit of my sisters in this,
the First Ward of Provo, that they are doing
well, and are trying to live near the Lord
and are willing to assist in any transaction
by which good may come. The Teachers
are diligent in visiting the sisters, and a
good spirit prevails in our midst.
	I am unable to express my ideas in the
English language as I desire to; true I have
been in these valleys twenty years, but
have improved very slowly.
	Respectfully yours, in the Gospel,
		Caroline. M. Johnson, President.

	Meeting of the young ladies of Ogden
City, June 5th, 1878. Meeting was con-
ducted by Sister Jane S. Richards, President.
Present from Salt Lake City, sisters Pris-
cinda Kimball, Zina D. Young, and L. L.
Greene. Minutes of last meeting were read
by A. M. Frodsham Secretary, and accepted.
	Sister J. S. Richards made a few introduc-
tory remarks. Sister Kimball said, I feel
very much pleased to meet with our young
sisters, and also the older ones. Things are
very different now, to what they were
when I joined this Church.  The young
ladies have a great privilege. To see the
work we could do, to bless the poor, asssist
those that need help and, to become true
mothers. The young may die, the old
must.  Seek knowledge; study good books;
be good to father and mother, help them all
you can; be kind to the little ones, be indus-
trious; keep yourselves tidy and clean.  Set
good examples before the young men; have
nothing to say to one who comes smoking
tobacco.  Be kind and merciful; speak well
of polygamy.  You have a good President,
help her and strengthen her, and may God
bless you.  Sister Zina D. Young said I am
happy to see you all, more so than I can ex-
press.  This is the largest congregation of
young Iadies I ever met with, and I am
pleased to say I do not see the excess of
fashion here I see at home. There are many
subjects of interest.  You are building up
the Kingdom of God—a high and holy call-
ing. If we are obedient to the Gospel, we
have nothing to fear. Be united; be firm
in your purpose. Set your minds against
evil. We came up to see your faces and we
say God bless you. Nothing can compare
with what there is before us. If a friend
tell you of your faults, pay attention. Don’t
be afraid of speaking to each other when
you come together.  Educate yourselves.
Make good use of tine; improve the moments
as they fly.  Be careful of your health:
we want to live on the earth as long as we
can; be sure and fill up your cup of happi-
ness hold your minds like a sheet of white
paper, so the Spirit can write upon them.
May God bless you and help you to fill up
your time in usefulness. Miss L. L. Greene
said:  Sister Zina has said the young ladies
should not be afraid to speak. I think it is
our selves we are afraid of, not each other.
We are in a great school. If we are wise—
with the experience and advantages we
have, we can make the future generation
far ahead of this present one. I pray God
may bless you. Several of the elder sisters
made excellent remarks add a number of
the young ladies rose and expressed their
pleasure and satisfaction with the instruc-
tions they had received. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks. Met again June 19th. A
large number present all seemed to enjoy
the meeting together. Sixteen more young
ladies joined Society. 
			A. M. Frodsham, Secretary.

	Minutes of the Fifth Annual meeting of
the Relief Society of Farmington, held June
11th, 1873. President Mrs. Holmes presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing “We
thank thee O God for a Prophet:”  Prayer
by Elder Hector Haight; Singing, “Let
those who would be Saints indeed:” Min-
utes of last meeting were read and accepted.
The reports of the Teachers then followed,
showing that all the districts had been
visited and donations received.  Counselor
Mrs. Ortentia Leonard, President of the
Teachers, expressed her satisfaction with the
reports, and thought the Teachers deserved
praise for their diligence.  A statement of
the financial affairs of the Society was then
read which showed that the whole amount
of donations for the year ending June, was
two hundred and thirty-nine dollars and
thirty-three cents; disbursements to the
poor, and donations for public purposes, two
hundred and fifty-five dollars and sixty-
three cents. Two shares on the Co-opera-
tive store, and forty-eight dollars out at
interest, leaving a balance in the Treasury
of one hundred and thirty-one dollars and
ninety-three cents. President Mrs. S. J.
Holmes remarked that she was glad to see
so many present, and as there were visitors
from Bountiful, Mrs. Barlow, President of
the Society in that place, Mother Sessions
and Mrs. Perigreene Sessions, besides some
of the brethren who had favored them with
a visit, she would not take up the time but
would like te hear from them.  Prest. Mrs.
Elizabeth H. Barlow then made a few re-
marks: She was thankful for the privilege


