PEN AND SCISSORS.

	Watching for good in others, more per-
haps, than anything else, strengthens our
own virtues and lessens our faults; for hav-
ing goodness in our mind, it leaves its im-
press there, and good deeds follow.
	Our labors for Zion will never be lost.
We may reach out after other things which
will pass away and perish; but for whatever
we do for the good of Zion we will not fail
of being rewarded.
	Want of charity for human frailties
betokens narrow-mindedness; a great mind
comprehends how hard it is to be always on
the alert—thinking intelligently, judging
correctly, speaking generously and acting
nobly and wisely.
	According to Professor Fowler, a sensible
woman should be allowed to do just as she
pleases, but she should not want to do every-
thing that a man may, for it is not her
place to do it all, and she is incapable in
many respects if she should want to.
	True joy is a serene and sober motion;
and they are miserably deceived that take
laughing for rejoicing: the seat of it is with-
in, and there is no cheerfulness like the
resolutions of a brave mind, that has fortune
under its feet.
	To many persons it seems a small thing to
sit down and prepare matter for the periodi- 
cal press, but let those inexperienced with
the pen, and whose brains have never been
trained to systematic labor, attempt to
furnish intellectual food and recreation to
their fellows, and they will soon find that
 mental labor is far more destructive to
health than all other toil.
	A curious story of luck on a battlefield is
perfectly authentic. A ball passed straight
through a man’s body, and the man recoverd.
This much is not unparalleled, but there
was something more, highly curious and
lucky. The man was consumptive, and had
formed tubercles. The ball carried away
the tubercles, and the man recovered not
only from the wound, but also from the 
consumption.
	Of all amusements that can possibly be 
imagined for a working man, after daily toil,
or in the intervals, there is nothing like 
reading. It calls for no bodily exertion, of
which the man has had enough—perhaps
too much. It relieves his home of dulness
and sadness. Nay, it accompanies him to
his next day’s work, and gives him some-
thing to think of besides the mere mechanical
drudgery of his everyday occupation—some-
thing he can enjoy while absent, and look
forward to with pleasure.
	Always act on the axiom, that it is better
to have no pictures than poor ones; and that
a realy good thing is worth paying for,
while a poor one is dear at any price. If
you cannot afford a first rate line engraving,
buy a first-rate lithograph; if you cannot
afford a porcelain, buy one of Le blond’s oil
prints. But whatever you buy always keep
in mind to have the best of its class, and
that no one can afford to buy a second-rate
work of art.
	If one is disposed to count the compara-
tive cost of letting children hunt up their
own sources of amusement, and of providing
them with means of occupation, it will be
found that the latter is the more economical
in a monied point of view, to say nothing of
other points in its favor. The waste and de-
struction, the mischief and havoc, that
juveniles, left to themselves, will make,
would, judiciously forestalled, furnish ample
means for their pleasant and profitable recre-
ation, and the forming of habits invaluable
to them in future life.


