Poorhouse or Pension?
By J. H. Paul, Director Old-Age Pensions, Salt Lake County
I. Why Old-Age Pensions?
The changed modes of life, due to the industrial revolution of the past 25 years in America, have made old-age pensions a present necessity not keenly felt in former periods. As long as our country was predominantly agricultural, as long as virgin soil could be taken up at slight cost, factory work was usually but a temporary occupation to enable the worker to save enough to start on his farm or small business. Few workers remained in the shops till old age had overtaken them. The problem of aged workers was almost non-existent. A book of forty years ago, Three Acres and Liberty, showed how almost any man could go upon a small, cheap farm, and earn a fair livelihood. Today that is impossible upon three, thirty, or even 300 acres, unless the man has a large capital. From an overwhelmingly agricultural nation, the United States, in the course of a generation, has become one of the most highly developed of industrial countries. The number of those directly engaged in manufacturing and mechanical pursuits grew from 5,678,468 in 1890 to 12,818,524 in 1920, a gain of over 125 percent in one generation. In iron and steel, the percentage has risen much higher; in railroads the increase amounts to over 233 percent. The number engaged in mining increased from 387,248 in 1890 to 1,090,233 in 1920, or 181 percent. On the other hand, the percentage of those engaged in agricultural pursuits declined from 44.4 percent of the total gainfully employed in 1880 to 26.3 percent in 1920, and is still lower now, the census figures for 1930 being not yet available.
II. Present Plight of the Aged
Today the old man finds it difficult or impossible to get work at any wages. Modern, mass production demands the swift speed that only young men can give. The aged worker is laid off, and, since the decline of farming, has nowhere to go. Many industries now limit their hiring age to 40 and 35 years. Unlike the gradual physical decline in old age characteristic of agricultural countries, economic superannuation takes place in industry abruptly and earlier in life. The factory, wearing out its workers with great rapidity, scraps alike machinery and human beings. The young, the vigorous, the adaptable, the supple of
166
limb, the alert of mind, are alone in demand. In business and in professions, maturity of judgment and ripened experience offset, to some extent, the disadvantage of old age; but in the factory and on the railway, with spade and pick, at the spindle, and at the steel converters, there are no offsets. Middle age is old age. The wage-earner is compelled to discontinue work long before actual senility sets in; not because he is worn out, but because he is unable to maintain the pace necessary in modern production.
III. How Aged People Used to Live
The number of aged people who can get work or live by operating a small farm is much less than it was 25 and even ten years ago. Older men cannot get work as they used to do, and the small farm or home no longer yields enough to support aged people, being oftener a liability than an asset. The orchard and garden, the little shop, the pig, chickens, cow—common to former small homes—have all gone; so that aged couples, who formerly could make a fair living from a small piece of land with a little house on it, can do nothing with such capital now. The percentage of the population over 65 who are still at work was (census 1920): in all occupations 4.1 per cent; bakers, 2.1; bankers, brokers, etc., 5.4; bookkeepers, etc., 1.2; clothing industry, 1.2; coal mining, 1.6; firemen, 2.4; glass blowers, 2.0; clerks, 1.3; farmers, 8.8; laborers (building), 6.4; laborers (iron and steel), 2.4; laborers (steam and R. R.), 2.8; laborers (public service), 8.1; other laborers, 2.5; machinists, 1.7; managers, 2.1; manufacturers and officials, 5.7; mechanics, 1.4; molders, etc., 1.5; plumbers, etc., 1.2; iron and steel, 1.5; printing, 1.3. Note the high percentage of aged people in farming and public service.
IV. Few Workmen Can Save For Old Age
American wages, in this era of high costs of living, are barely sufficient for daily needs, and have not permitted, even in our most prosperous years, sufficient savings for old age. With the exception of a few isolated and exceptionally skilled
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
trades, the wages of American workers are insufficient, without supplement from other sources, to provide for the subsistence of a family consisting of husband, wife, and three minor children, much less to maintain them in that condition of "health and reasonable comfort" which every humane consideration demands.—National War Labor Board, 1922. The actual weekly wages earned by those employed in 1920, a year of great prosperity, by the average in all industries, was $26.30; factory employees, $28.15; farm laborers, with board, $10.82, without board, $14.98; iron and steel, $45.65.—U. S. Com. of Labor. The amount of a weekly budget for a standard of health and decency, was: Detroit, $32.00; Philadelphia, $35.00; Calif. Laborer's family of five, $39.41; clerk's family of five, $57.53; families in Calif. Cities, $39; farm families, N. Y., $38.50. After the World War, our prosperity continued for three years. Since then one great depression (1921-22) and two minor ones have occurred, followed in 1930 by the greatest depression of our history. Deceived by accounts of 22 million automobiles owned by Americans, millions of radios and increasing bank deposits, we overlooked the deserted farms, the homes that were being exchanged for autos and radios, and the fact that notable increases in bank deposits occurred only in great industrial states.
V. Shall it Be Poor House or Pensions?
The poor house, or infirmary, is not the place for dependent aged people; it costs more and is less effective and uplifting than pensions or insurance. The Salt Lake County cost of old-age pensions averages $132 per year. The cost in the Infirmary is $319 per year. The cost of almshouse maintenance in Wisconsin is $186 yearly per inmate; out-door relief, only $50 per year; in Ohio, about $170 per capita in city and county infirmaries, but some as high as $300, others as low as $100. The cities and counties have an investment of $10,000,000 in infirmaries alone. In 1925 the U. S. Dept. of Labor published a
POOR HOUSE OR PENSION?
comprehensive monograph, The Cost of American Almshouses. Of Europe's economic revolution, have been dubbed "dole" systems and "burdensome costs" is the argument against European methods, yet the per capita wealth of the United States ($3,000) is the highest of any nation, the American tax-payer the least burdened. And its accessories, are estimated by Epstein (Challenge of the Aged, 1928) to cost "$6.50 a year for every man, woman, and child in the country"—a total of several billions a year, while Britain's old-age pension and insurance bill is only $100,000,000 a year.
VI. The Chances for Old Age Today
Owing to recent advances in medical science, little more than an even chance to reach old age. The proportion of aged people employed in agriculture is much lower than formerly. Locomotive engineers, Service 6.3 per cent, retains only 3.5 per cent, Mining, 2.1 per cent. It is said that locomotive firemen have little more than an even chance of reaching 65; indeed, various industries retain far fewer men than formerly.
VII. Chief Causes of Pauperism
Age alone is the minor cause of pauperism; illness and reverses of fortune, and not shiftlessness, are the principal causes. On our Utah pension lists are men of the finest abilities—engineers, former members of the legislature, and the like. None of those receiving pensions can be classed as lazy or idle. Of the almshouses as 32.1 percent. Were more important than any other cause in bringing about premature superannuation. Sickness frequently required the expenditure of all savings. Disease, sickness, or accident was given as the chief cause of dependency among 321 persons studied by the Massachusetts Commission on Pensions, 1925. Massachusetts, shows that among persons 65 and over, old age caused total impairment in only 68 percent.—Massachusetts Commission on Pensions, 1925. Most of the workers interviewed began to fail after 50. Pattern makers complained of defective eyesight, the molders of weakened arms. As a rule they paid little attention to these disorders until a breakdown compelled them to give up work.
167

