The Christening
By Fay Ollerton
In the year 1842 the Church was still young, scarcely an adolescent. There had been no time in the colorful and often tragic moves from Kirtland to Missouri and back across the icy Mississippi to Illinois for the women to do anything more than move with their men or wait for them when necessary. But times were changing. The sodden little settlement that was Commerce in the winter of 1839, had become Nauvoo, the Beautiful, a dream city rising almost overnight from the snow-covered prairie to a city of homes and mills and factories overlooking the buff Mississippi. In this dream city thousands of people were living, some of them in pretentious homes and others so new in Nauvoo that they depended on charity for a night's lodging. And daily the slow prairie schooners and the crawling river boats were bringing new citizens—a few with gold in their pockets but more with the idea that now they had found Nauvoo and "Brother Joseph" that all would be well. There was work in Nauvoo that only women could do. Joseph Smith in his wisdom recognized the need for some unified body of women. His idea was a strange one, for in 1842 there were no women's clubs, literary or social, no auxiliaries to the national parties, no business and professional woman's clubs, no woman's city clubs, no Eastern Stars, only a few sewing groups that are remembered only in history. Besides the converts from many states and lands, the hunger and privation that were always lurking, there were worse things—discontent, disloyalty, and apostasy—all things that women, with their courage and patience, could fight. So on March 17, 1842, when the prairie was losing its snow and green was showing on the river banks, Joseph Smith called a number of women to meet in the Nauvoo Lodge Room. He there disclosed his new project. The names of these women read like a catalogue of old New England. There were, among others, Sarah Cleveland, Philanda Merrick, Desdemona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Martha Knight, Phoebe Ann Hawkes, Elvira A. Coles, Margaret A. Cook, and Sophia Robinson. They were all eager and curious. This was an adventure—not like fleeing from the Missourians or coming by boat to Nauvoo, but something more subtle and challenging. Joseph Smith had asked the serious young Canadian, John Taylor, and Willard Richards of loyal friendship, to help him organize the society. It was a time, remember, when woman's suffrage and woman's rights, had not been heard in these new lands, and it was scarcely to be expected that women would know how to conduct themselves. Willard Richards was made secretary of the meeting. In fact it is due to his careful recording that the memory of that 17th of March still lives so strongly. "The spirit of God like a fire is burning, the latter day glory begins to come forth," sang the fervent women, their hearts beating faster
140
against the tight, dark bodices of their dresses. When prayer had been offered, Joseph Smith, proudly and ably seconded by Sarah Cleveland, moved that a vote be taken to determine if all those present were "satisfied with each female present and willing to acknowledge them in full fellowship to the Institution about to be formed." It is on record that the men withdrew while the vote was being taken. Tact flourished in the river city even though it was not yet three years old. But the truly astounding thing was that each "female" voted that she had no objection to any of the others. They even added the names of six women not present. Soon, the men were back. It was then that Joseph Smith explained why he had called them together. Besides caring for the wants of the poor they were "to provoke the brethren to good works, to assist by correcting even the morals of the community, and to save the elders the trouble of rebuking, that they, the elders, might have more time to attend to their other duties, including public speaking." Rather complex duties for so simple a beginning. Now came the obvious task of selecting officers—a presidency that was to be as a constitution and whose word was to be as law. If other officers were needed, they were to be appointed even as the deacons and teachers were appointed. Elizabeth Ann Whitney lost no time in moving that Emma Smith be made president. And there was not one dissenting vote. Was she not the beloved wife of their prophet, a woman tall and dark and handsome, who moved with dignity and was renowned for her intelligence and wisdom? And was she not one whom they had housed in
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
times of need and who had thrown open her home to the poor, the fatherless, the widows, and whose gentleness and sympathy and untiring labor had inspired them in times of sickness? She was a fit leader for their great experiment. President Smith's first act was to choose her counselors, Sarah Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney. All of them were set apart, Emma to the dignity and qualifications of her high calling and the other two to be her aids. Once organized, would the females know how to conduct themselves? Indeed not, if we are to accept the men's viewpoint. And why should the women know how? They did not participate in the political meetings that were the very meat of life to men in the forties. Neither did they overly intrude themselves at any public gatherings. The females were instructed that if two speakers should address the chair at once (proof enough of Joseph Smith's keen foresight), they were to wait until the "Mrs. Chairman" decided the one to be honored. Very tactfully but firmly it was forced upon their attention that whatever the majority should decide was to be law. There was to be no seeming assent and then rushing forth from the meeting to spread disapproval. A more delicate subject was next brought before the members. It had to do with a certain human trait that must have been first observed about the time Eve saw Lillith or Lillith saw Eve, depending on who was the first observer. It would not be right to say that this characteristic was common in Nauvoo. It is enough to say that Joseph Smith spoke of it in these words: "You are not to injure the character of anyone. If a member
THE CHRISTENING
of the society should conduct herself improperly, deal with her, but keep all your doings within your own bosoms and hold all character sacred." That was practical Christianity, plainly put. The brethren must have sighed with relief, these instructions off their minds. They had nothing to do but turn the meeting over to the females, then observe how apt their pupils were. It is a legitimate question to ask what was the first act of this longest lived woman's society in the United States. And the answer is simple. It was that of naming the society. There was no trouble finding names. The difficulty rose in hearing what names were being suggested, so quickly had the females forgotten their instructions. Joseph Smith was patient, however, and soon they were proceeding in quiet, regular order. Counselor Cleveland, who was no shy woman if records speak the truth, suggested that the society be called the Nauvoo Female Relief Society. The naming might have been as simple as that had it not been for Elder Taylor. Elder Taylor was an admirable and learned man, but he did not yet know the capabilities of females. He suggested that Benevolent be substituted for Relief. Benevolent, he thought, would give a more definite idea of the society's nature. And that started the trouble. President Emma Smith, her brown eyes very bright, suggested that she and Elder Taylor come to some understanding about the meanings of the words Relief and Benevolent. This must have been truly astounding, for women were not supposed to be erudite. Before they could start on the
141
understanding, Joseph Smith explained that Relief was rather a new word among popular societies and more extended in its suggestions than Benevolent. Indeed, it might be construed by enemies to mean that the society was to relieve criminals from punishment. It must be again remembered that in that day of intense religious feeling enemies were real and massacres had started from so slight a thing as a foundationless rumor. However, the president of the new society was able to defend its name. Benevolent, she declared, was too popular a name. Every society was using it. Why, there was one Washington Benevolent Society that was not worthy to be mentioned. She, for one, did not want the society to be called after any other in the world. Joseph Smith very quickly announced that he had no objections to the word Relief. He merely wanted them not to move too hastily. Then Eliza R. Snow, that black-eyed and vivacious descendant of a long line of puritans, threw in the weight of her learning with the president. The word Benevolent, she said, had been associated with too many corrupt societies to be considered. Further, she contended that as the daughters of Zion they should set an example to the rest of the world—not content themselves with following common paths. But Eliza was rather an introspective sort of person and she had her doubts about the suitability of Relief. Might not some people think it was connected with being prepared for calamity instead of meeting the every day needs? President Smith met that objection with a quickness of wit that won the skirmish—and the name. Exciting times were coming, she told them, and pressing need when
142
there would be loud calls for relief. And they would be ready for them as well as for exigencies of daily life. That satisfied John Taylor, who must have wished that he had been less quick about offering amendments. For the moment the society was the Nauvoo Female Relief Society, and would have remained so if Eliza R. Snow had not felt that the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo was more rhythmical. A vote was taken and the name was the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo. The society now had members, officers, and a name. It lacked but one thing for efficient functioning— funds. But not for long. Donations ranged all the way from five dollars in gold from Joseph Smith to one bit (twelve and a half cents for the benefit of those who have not been raised on bits). It is only truthful to write, however, that most of the ranging was from two dollars to the one bit. With a well stocked treasury the society was ready for work. There
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
was no quibbling here. Emma Smith knew her Nauvoo, from the newest, hungriest emigrant to come up the river to the wealthiest of the first settlers whose many-roomed houses overlooked the prairie. She had names on the tip of her tongue of families that must have immediate help, and of women who wanted only work. Those who hired widows, Emma was prompt to add, must be prompt with payment. Emma knew of women who had worked for no hire and she did not mean that this condition should continue. The long morning was closing. Husbands were coming home hungry, and there must have been children whose patience had long been gone. The meeting was adjourned until one week from that Thursday at ten o'clock in the morning. In its way the Relief Society, organized in the young town of Nauvoo, has been the history of Church women these past ninety years. It has progressed as they have grown, and it is, as ever, the pioneer of their development.

