Keeping Up With Lizzy's Kids By Harrison R. Merrill ACING with Lizzy has never held the thrill for me that it really should have done, I fear, for I am neither lean nor hungry, and sleep fairly well at nights; but keeping up with Lizzy's kids promises to furnish some exto sell that could be jimmied on to any part of my anatomy. My taste in the matter was entirely beside and beyond the question. As a result, I came to look upon anything I could use at all as being strictly proper for me to wear. Citement. Being reared as I was in the hills where buckled stogy shoes, a faded pair of Levi's or Mountaineers, a cotton shirt and a conical hat constituted the entire wardrobe of a boy in his 'teens, I did not develop any highfaultin' ideas about dress. Later, being high above and considerably wider than the average man and with a pair of feet in proportion, I found it necessary for me to take what the "store-keeper" had Lizzy, in my case, was merely a rapidly expanding pair of shoulders, lengthening legs, and arms _ that seemed determined to grow beyond any sleeve of shirt or coat ever devised by man. Finding clothing that would cover my growth was my one great problem. What Lizzy or Henry, or Jack had or wore gradually became less and less important. My shoes might be futuristic or ten years behind the times, but I always 156 had the consolation of knowing that they were the only ones available in my size. My coat was frequently short when others were wearing them long; my trousers were "English" when "collegiate" roominess was in vogueŚbut always I had my reason for being out of style. Bu now, I am a man with a family. My youngsters, like others of their kind, have both eyes and ears. They know and, what is more important, they care what Lizzy's children are wearing and so Śthe race is on. The other day our daughter needed shoes. She had been wearing low-heeled, comfortable oxfords. But oxfords of that type would serve no longer. The clerk, sensing our predicament, brought out oxfordsŚblack oxfords, tan oxfords, red oxfordsŚ but always they were greeted with an emphatic shake of the head. At last, in desperation, he brought forth a beautiful pair of tan shoes with military heels. The quest was ended. "That's like Lucy's!" the little lady exclaimed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "ButŚ" Mother expostulated. All buts were over-ruled. We bought the shoes at a price a dollar or two higher than we had ever paid for her foot-wear before. "Quite a price," my wife suggested when we were alone that evening, "but she really had to have themŚin her groupŚyou know." A few days later we happened to pass through Salt Lake City. The daughter must remove her galoshes. We wondered why she was so insistent until we were stepping it off down Main Street. Suddenly the maid looked up and saidŚ "I feel smart walking down this street in these shoes!" And now some other little girl is likely to see our little girl in her smart "grown-up shoes," and demand military heels. The race goes on, merrily in some cases, tragically in others. If it isn't with Lizzy it's with Lizzy's kids. It always has gone onŚit always will go on. What shall we do about it? I shrug my shoulders. Frankly, I thaven't an idea; the race with Lizzy's kids is quite different from an ambling old canter after Lizzy. Photo By Hileman. LAKE McDONALD, GLACIER NATIONAL PARK
