Out of the Shadows
By Alveretia S. Engar
It is not an uncommon thing for an old house to be rebuilt, made over or restored. But not everyone has such a background of human interest as this one. Building societies desiring to increase their rentals look with cold-blooded interest at the old home and if the possibilities of rejuvenation warrant the expenditure of their money they do not hesitate, but if not the old deserted place is left still looking as Madison Cawein says, "Like some old ghost from out its grave." During the summer, I passed and repassed this beautiful little home with its spotless whiteness, bright awnings, graceful pergolas with their colorful cement floors, surrounded by beautiful ferns and flowers, being so attracted by its simple beauty and hominess, that finally curiosity and an admiring interest led me to the door to ask for a kodak picture. I was not disappointed. A mother artist lived there with her husband and three lovely children, the baby only two weeks old. This is the story she told me: "We had been married for twelve years without being blessed with a baby; for eight years I suffered with rheumatism, and went through the usual process of having tonsils re-
A beautiful little home of spotless whiteness, bright awnings and graceful pergolas.
moved, some bad teeth and other perfectly sound ones drawn, etc., but all in vain. Nothing seemed to help. "I tried many remedies and different doctors and finally was benefited by osteopathic treatments, but poison from certain other treatments so prostrated me that my life hung in the balance. In our despair it was decided that I take a trip to California. "We sold our cozy little home and everything in it at auction; our savings, our accumulations of years went under the thud of the hammer. This was our darkest hour.
146
"I returned from the trip somewhat built up. We moved into a small unfurnished apartment and soon—miracle of miracles, our first babe was born, and with him was born new hope, new interest in life. I had never given up hope, always believing that nothing is impossible with the Lord. "As the little one grew and developed, a compelling desire for a home, a place where he could be free to run and play in the sunshine possessed me. "We began to look around for a home, but found nothing that we wanted without running hopelessly in debt. Finally the real estate agent offered this homely barn of a place to us at a figure we could handle without paying out so much in interest. "Immediately I saw a vision: This deserted looking place that had once sheltered all of life, sorrow, death, birth, love and happiness, might again be restored, made over and become to us a shelter, a spot of beauty and also embody an arrangement of utility and comfort. "I begged my husband to buy the house and lot and with intense interest I went to work, drawing plans, estimating costs, etc. "The lot was spacious but the house being almost against another one had to be moved. "A basement was dug, the floor
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
plan changed entirely, new hardwood floors put in, new windows and doors, and two new rooms added, one a bedroom and a garage. Cupboards, shelves, closets, plumbing and lighting fixtures were also added. An arch was made between the living room and dining room. "We let the contract to a Building and Supply Association, who let us have material on a monthly payment plan, furnishing a carpenter to do the work. We did our own painting, papering and added the pergolas. In four years we rebuilt and paid for it. By the time we were through my health was completely restored, and while this made over home is not as nice as our former one, we have known more happiness than we ever dreamed could be ours, and best of all we can lie down contentedly without worry of debt." Mrs. Nye is a devoted mother to her babies; through her service to them and her husband, together with her interest in the planning and building of their home, her body and mind, so weakened by long suffering, has become perfectly normal and strong. Today she is enjoying the fruits of accomplishment that come only through persistent, unfaltering faith and effort. As she graciously led me through and around their home, I saw in the back yard that dream of a sunny spot for the children, clean and well
This deserted looking place might be made into a spot of beauty and embody an arrangement of utility and comfort.
OUT OF THE SHADOWS 147
arranged, with a sand pile and a little playhouse built of goods boxes and equipped with simple playthings that children love. The rehabilitation is complete, through which the deserted home and its present happy inmates were literally lifted out of the shadows into the sunshine, making the little family and their home fit subjects for poetry and song.
[THIS IS DIAGRAM: A floor plan showing rooms labeled PARLOR, BED ROOM, KITCHEN, and FLOWER BEDS around a GARAGE]
Roger W. Babson says, "I am continually asked, 'Is it not a great economic waste to have millions of people idle?' To this question I frankly answer: 'If the only values are material—that is, if commodities are America's only need—then unemployment and financial failures are solely economic losses. If, however, spiritual and intellectual values are also of great importance,' then it must be recognized that business depressions have their usefulness and fulfill an important economic function.' I personally hold the latter belief, and have felt that rainy days have their usefulness as well as sunny days. "Economic history plainly teaches that during periods of prosperity there develop waste, carelessness and crime. These agents are the real cause of the business depression which inevitably follows. When men are making money they are likely to lose their faith—forget their God and become more or less pagans. During such prosperous times, the churches become neglected, personal prayers are dropped, and man feels self-sufficient, without the need of Bible, church, or mediation. These are the conditions which America has witnessed during the past few years. "When, however, people are out of employment, when business men are making losses, when we find things drifting away from us and we are unable to control the situation, then we look to higher and better things. The first move is to stop waste, next, every worker determines to do his very best, and finally, we begin to seek higher sources for aid and guidance. A beautiful little home of spotless whiteness, bright awnings and graceful pergolas."—From the American Legion Magazine.

