Road Signs By Drucilla H. McFarland ASSPORTS please! Tourists? Pp Ninety cents toll. O. K. For the American side." And so we crossed Ambassador Toll Bridge, that colossal feat of engineering expansion that stretches high above the pleasure boats and the tradeships of international commerce, on the Detroit River, and connects Michigan, U. S. A., with Ontario, Canada. A bronze plaque built into the metal parapet of the bridge bears record of a great service, while it pays tribute to the manhood of these two countries, who went down in the Great War, sacrificing their lives for world betterment. VER a thousand miles, our minds traveled ahead, to Memory Park in Salt Lake City, where remembrance of our native sons is perpetuated by a monument of different type?a beautiful garden under the shadows of the State Capitol Building, with two city blocks picturesquely landscaped along an old river gorge. Significant memorials are these? well planned and fittingly executed. They are distinguishing marks of their locale. WITH our faces turned again home, we followed an old trail. It was the line of march of a pioneer band who gathered from these far states nearly a century ago. From East to West they trekked, doing their bit to build a frontier in the Rockies. Their route is now traceable through country and town. Here and there it is indicated by granite monuments bearing historical data. It is marked with great cities that have rooted and grown as if from seed dropped by these early empire builders as they passed. Each place recounts, with road signs, the story of its own progress. They tell of accomplishment in wealth and population, in civic attainment of tax-freedom, in crime-reduction and school child protection. They proclaim scenic wonders and national enterprises. The landscape itself portrays the attitude of the inhabitants. Thereon are engraved signs of advancement or failure; signs of toil, of negligence 438 of optimism, of despair?each section revealing a story. There is the freshness of New England and the Great Lake states' painted green landscape, a pastoral, truly. The cherry orchards of Michigan and Indiana fairly flaunt temptation to stay and sip their red nectar. Grassy sward-bordered highways are strung mile upon mile with glass jars of fruit cider (maybe only a colored imitation, but sparkling and inviting just the same). Then there is the grain belt with its wide farms joining one another into one vast waving field of gold. Mule teams and drivers bear themselves importantly all along the rich Mississippi and Missouri river valleys, helping to flaunt the yellow banner. Then the long westward-pointing highway runs through county after county of patterned fields striped with tall corn and offset here and there by hog-dotted blocks of pasture. And now the level prairie country and desert. Grease-wood, brilliant cactus, and roving herds of range cattle. Then a few scattered bands of sheep, the Continental Divide, and indication of a rocky mountainous country again. Even here the enlightening road-signs point out interesting features?dinosaur beds, and scenes of Indian encounter. E are home again. What do " we read on the road-signs of Utah? What marks are her citizenry delineating daily upon her face? Do they feature the undaunted spirit of the pioneer fathers? Do they tell of the patient mothers who toiled untiringly for the esthetic and the beautiful? Are there ensigns of refinement and culture and love of home flying from our ramparts today? Yes. And no. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Many homes do portray all that the pioneer designers could have wished for. Some homesteads appear as masterpieces, artist-drawn upon the chart of nature. Others might well be brightened and their marks of discouragement covered by a simple flower garden, for flowers are one of the choicest gifts from a kind Father, intended to suffuse the drab earth with color and to diffuse sweetness and serenity by their perfumed breath. Our roadsides are our press agents. Unsightly ones proclaim a morose attitude toward life, while optimism and progress are shown in the orderly districts. Tourists are observant and critical and the road-sign spirit, be it good or bad, is transmitted to and propagated by them. Herein lies an opportunity and a duty. UTAH has the setting for the loveliest flower gardens in the world. Its hills and dales and streams are priceless assets in acquiring that desired naturalistic effect that makes for real beauty. A natural pool, a gnarled old tree, a hummock, or a depression in the yard will aid us in marking our state with distinction. Individuals and clubs of enterprise in nearly every community have become flower-minded and are now sponsoring home-beautification projects. Commercial growers are spending time and talent to encourage their patrons to improve their neighborhoods. Even the government is furnishing funds for the beautification of homes, parks, and highways. All of these movements are worthy of support. The cooperative efforts of you and me are now needed to make a statewide monument to the noble men and women who made Utah to blossom as the rose.