Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon JULY?The true patriot is the law- _ abiding citizen. RENE JOLIOT-CURIE, daughter of the discoverer of radium, Suzanne Lacoire, welfare worker, and Cecile Bannschivig, suffragist, have accepted appointments in the French Cabinet under Premier Leon Blum. The first women in France so honored. MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN, of Utah, with her husband, Dr. Richard R. Lyman, will leave this summer for an extended sojourn in Europe. Mrs. Lyman will have supervision of the women's organizations of the Mormon Church in the European mission with headquarters in London. W: EINIFRED BONFILS (Annie Laurie), famous columnist and newspaper reporter, died recently in San Francisco. The flags of that city were hung at half mast in her honor. RUBY C. BAHR of Wisconsin, ~ and Inez Pitts of Mississippi, telephone operators, received the annual Vail award?a silver medal and $250 cash this year, for unusual courage and prompt intelligent action while at their post. MINERVA RICHARDS KNOWLTON, well known relief and temple worker among the Latter-day Saints, died last May. Her charities were boundless and her service to humanity unexcelled. RACE MOORE, American singer, has received a marvelous ovation in Stockholm, the birthplace of Jenny Lind, "the Swedish nightingale? Crowds followed her as she rode through the streets and cheered in front of her hotel until she appeared on the balcony to bow. Nearly a hundred years ago Jenny Lind received a similar ovation in America. BESSIE BROWN of Utah, who made her debut in a stellar role last May with the Chicago Opera Company, has been engaged to sing contralto roles through the season of 36-37 by that company. KATHARINE HEPBURN has been selected to star in the new picture adapted from the great Hungarian play, Marie Baskirtcheff, so successfully produced last year in Budapest. EHLEN HAYES, as Victoria Regina, has received the annual award for the most distinguished performance of the year, from the New York Drama League. SONJA HEINIE, the newest athletic heroine, has yielded to the Hollywood lure and become professional. MARCIA DAVENPORT'S "Mozart" and "Tomorrow To Fresh Fields,' by Mary Master Needham are among the worthwhile books of the season. BEATRICE HARRADAN, author of "Ships That Pass in the Night," and Mary Johnston, American novelist, were among the famous writers who died this last spring.