The Contributions of Women and Women's Organizations to the Priesthood Quorums By Janet M. Thompson author in writing of the life of a Pioneer woman, prefaced her book with this sentiment?''Be- - cause the road was steep and long and through a dark and dreary land, God placed upon her lips a song and put a lantern in her hand." We could well apply this same thought to our early Latter-day Saint women ?for their songs of faith, courage, loyalty and perseverance have echoed and re-echoed through the years. Their lanterns which may have burned dimly at first have become brighter and brighter until rays of wisdom, knowledge and encouragement have lighted the paths of many. It has been said, there is nothing that will let light into the soul like personal influence and there is nothing that will build faith, hope, love and charity like the power of a good example.. Then is it not true, the greatest contribution our women have made for the advancement of the Priesthood has come through their influence and their example? The sculptor who designed the beautiful monument which now stands on the capitol grounds, visualizes for us the characteristic power and faith of our women. In his carving of the enlistment, who has the greater responsibility to face? the mother with one child at her feet and a babe in her arms?or the father about to leave with the Mormon Battalion? The mother's head is not bowed down, but she like the great stone face above her, is looking up, with clear eyes and courageous spirit ?a pillar of strength to mankind. Santor i years ago a certain In the building of communities, of social life, of the Priesthood in the home and in the church, are we not all of the opinion that women have been as conspicuous in the building as the men? TODAY, we find our women just - as concerned in the teaching of the fundamentals of the gospel as formerly. They realize that all of their work is predicated on the beginning of the church through the Priesthood and, that in their desire to magnify the office of the Priesthood, they can be a power for good in the home?an influence in spiritual development and an example in character building. Cooperation, faith, strength in leadership, unselfishness, devotion, encouragement, sympathy and understanding are all pre-requisites for successful character building. One writer tells us the best school of discipline is home?that family life is God's own method of training the young and that homes are very much what women make them. They reform others unconsciously when they walk uprightly. In this rapidly changing world, it would seem, a@ good example is the best and greatest gift one can give to others. We can preach a better sermon with our lives than with our lips. Channing says, "Precept is instruction written on the sand, the tide flows over it and the record is gone?example is graven on the rock and the lesson is not soon lost." ALL of our women's organizations are constructive forces in the 432 advancement of the Priesthood. They aim for greater spiritual uplift and broader vision in educational fields. Young boys and girls and women are taught the truths of the gospel?to honor and sustain the Priesthood, which is the power and authority by which our church is governed and maintained. True, is it not, the Priesthood could not carry on the auxiliary organizations without the help of the women? It might interest you to know the comments three of our prominent church men made recently regarding the contribution women make towards the advancement of the Priesthood. An apostle said, "The influence of a young girl is far-reaching? I know the effect girls have upon boys. I hope they will always maintain dignity and will frown upon companions if they stoop to do or RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE say something unbecoming the Priesthood." A Stake President made this comment?"Women have a little better appreciation of the finer things of life?they are the custodians of the spiritual forces of the world?a man can't get anywhere if his wife won't help. It is the silent encouragement that counts." One of our Bishops made this remark?"The most crying need right. Now is to follow the injunction of the scriptures?to have the women provoke their husbands to good work. I was blessed with a good wife and she always saw to it that I was diligent in my duties." Just as long as our women have the abiding influence of the Priesthood to guide and direct them, their songs will not be hushed, neither will their lights be dimmed.