Hidden Worth By Eva Willes Wangsgard
"AS ye have done it unto the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." Jesus said so long ago. We read but we do not always act. How often we neglect the opportunity before us! We, like the ancient Greeks, too often expect a beautiful body to cover a beautiful soul.
Once, in those almost forgotten yesterdays, when to go to the fair at the county seat was an adventure, my big brother hired a rig from the livery stable and traveled the eighteen miles to attend the fair. When he returned he brought with him a beautiful ivy for my mother who was a lover of house plants.
ONE day, mother noticed a tiny plant, so wilted and starved-looking, struggling to make its way beneath the ivy. She carefully removed it to a pot of its own. My brother teased her heartily for devoting more time and attention to the foundling than to the beauty he had bought for her. My mother smiled and said, "I have always been intrigued by the possibilities in apparently insignificant things. I shall take care of it and see what it becomes."
As time went by the tiny thing became a plant of rare beauty. Although I have spent much time in the development of plants in my garden, I have never seen its like. It was some kind of cactus producing enormous scarlet blossoms which dripped honey in such quantities that papers had to be spread beneath it to protect the furnishings near it. At one time it carried seventeen brilliant blossoms and was a sight worthy of anyone's attention.
How often among our fellows is that true also! How many apparently common folk have hidden possibilities if they were given more encouragement! How many of the little ones intrusted to our care may be among the world's great, tomorrow? How many Edisons are we pushing aside, in our impatience, because we do not understand? How many great souls among our humble neighbors are we discouraging because their great worth is not apparent? How many of us have eyes and see not!
From among the "least of these" came Christ, himself, Socrates and numerous brethren. Tenderly, thoughtfully, patiently, let us care for the little ones and the humble ones among us. Our greatest souls may wear the simplest forms:
A humble lump of matted earth Beside a paved street lay, Where sun could shine and rain could fall, Where rough feet trod all day.
Men marveled when a tulip bloomed From that poor clod one morn; Still, was it not from common clay The Son of God was born?