She Was a Mother By Theodore Martineau HE dreaded outlaw Pancho Villa was coming, and coming soon from his mountain stronghold to attack Cruces and consternation reigned in that doomed village. Only too well her people knew what to expect when that ruthless horde of bandits swooped down on a village hot with the lust for its fiery liquors, its precious loot and its lovely maidens. Knowing their inability to defend their homes the citizens hastily loaded their most precious belongings into wagons and ox carts, or packed them on the backs of their slow-moving but dependable burros, and headed for their stronghold a few miles distant in the gorges of the Sierras. Many times during the Revolutions of past years they had made this same move so that now even the beasts of burden seemed instinctively to sense their destination. Hurriedly, yet in good order, they made their way to' safety leaving a small company of expert riflemen to observe and harass their enemies should they show any disposition to pursue the fugitives. As was usually the case, Villa's attack on the village was made just before the dawn of day and great was the surprise of the marauders when they dashed up the silent streets clear to the Plaza without sighting a single person or receiving any reply to the volleys of bullets fired through the windows and doors of the houses as they passed. Villa and his men were furious as they began to realize the fact that their prey had flown, leaving behind them it was true, a much appreciated supply of corn, chile and frijoles but none of the really precious supply of arms, ammunition or pesos they had hoped to secure as a reward for their efforts. Hard, indeed, would be the lot of the traitor who had betrayed the plans of his chief, could they but lay hands upon him. And catch him they did that very day for the promise of a reward proved too much for the loyalty of a supposed friend and that night Julian Medina lay in fetters with the sentence of death upon him, to be carried out at daybreak. Knowing as he did the implacable hatred his chief had for those who betrayed his trust, the prisoner had no hope of any leniency, as the shadow of his impending doom shut out the sunlight of hope. But how could he have done otherwise than he did?he in whose veins ran the blood of old Castile, mingled with the no less proud strain of the Aztec Emperors. For not only was his gray-haired mamacita living there, but also it was the home of the maiden whom he some day hoped to make his bride. And what allegiance could he owe to that ruthless Chief who had forced him against his will into the ranks of his marauders, and who would not fail to inflict upon him death for desertion should he be caught out of the ranks without leave of absence. Surely now his doom was sealed but death would be sweetened by the knowledge that his own life was but paying the price of safety for his loved ones. 420 And so the hours dragged their weary way along and the last dawn his eyes would ever see was not far away. His dismal meditations were interrupted by the opening of the door and in came his old friend and confessor Padre Leon who had now come to prepare him to leave this world; the same good friend who had christened him and had always been his staunch amigo. Scarcely had the door closed, however, when the amazed Julian found himself in the arms and his face covered with kisses by the supposed Priest whose hood falling back disclosed the tear-stained face of his own little mamacita, who had thus, with the connivance of Padre Leon braved death in the hope of saving her son. They would change clothes and he would go out to liberty as a Priest, while she would remain as the prisoner to meet whatever fate might await her. Against this plan Julian set his face with fierce determination, but what chance had his will against that of a mother who was determined that, come what might to her, Julian must be set free. To make the necessary change of apparel was but the work of a moment and soon the supposed Padre had passed the sleepy guards who were still stupid from the effects of the liquor they had drunk the previous day. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE As the good Padre was used to coming and going at will through the camp, but little attention was paid to him and soon the fugitive was beyond the reach of his enemies. GREAT was the wrath of Don Pancho when he learned of his prisoner's escape and furious were his threats of vengeance upon the traitor who had given him his liberty. But when the culprit was ushered into his presence and he discovered who it was that had tricked him, his thirst for vengeance underwent a change. To his question as to why she had dared to thwart his plans, the little mother reminded him that he, himself had once had a mother who would willingly have dared as much for him, and after all it was not the part of a great man to make war upon women. Whether it was the memories of a long forgotten childhood, that softened his heart or just some lingering strain of chivalry towards womankind that wrought the change matters not. Senora Medina was furnished with a horse and an escort to return to her people who hailed her as one risen from the dead.