The Unprepared Teacher By Merling D. Clyde SCENE 1 (The curtain rises. A woman busily engaged. Telephone rings.) Teacher. "Oh, can't you go, Sister Cummings? I'm so sorry. Yes, if there's no one to accompany me, I can go alone. I don't know much about the topic. I've looked it over a bit; but I'll just hurry around so we can report it visited. I do hope you will be better soon. What? Oh, thank you. Goodbye." Music. SCENE 2' (A home. A woman seated with her ankle bandaged and resting on a chair calls a cheery "Come in" to a knock at the door. Teacher enters, approaches and takes her hand. Exchange pleasantries.) Mrs. K. "Oh, I was just hoping you would come this afternoon. One always looks for the Relief Society teachers. It is such a lovely topic this month, isn't it? Where is sister Cummings?" T. "She was too ill to come." Mrs. K. "I'm so sorry." T. "Yes, isn't it too bad? You know, this is the first time she has missed teaching in twelve years. It was impossible for her to get out, and that hurt worse than being sick, I do believe. How is the hurt ankle?" Mrs. K. "Oh, very much better, thank you; but I am unable to walk yet, and will have to miss meeting Tuesday. Still I am blessed, for I have my Magazine here and have been reading the lesson for next time. I've thought so much about this topic, too: Blessed are they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Isn't it a comforting thought? You know, THE UNPREPARED TEACHER each day some one comes to my door with a blessing." T. (looking a little abashed and scanning the magazine) "I'm afraid I'm to receive a lesson; for I'll have to admit that I have not studied the topic, and I had company the day I should have gone to meeting to hear it given." Mrs. K. "But I am sure you are hungering and thirsting after righteousness, dear sister, or you would not be taking time to visit your district this busy month." T. "Perhaps it is from a sense of duty." Mrs. K. "Not exactly. Duty does exact its portion; but love of the Gospel and thirst for satisfaction of the soul compel one to carry on. And I've failed yet to find one who has not been blessed by doing so." T. "I've had that thought, too; but I get neglectful and let other things interfere." Mrs. K. "We all do. And I've had time to realize, since I've had to sit still, how much we do let trifles interfere with our real purpose in life. I've found out a lot of things about myself. I have resolved to quit gossiping over the back fence and the telephone and I'll have more time for these beautiful lessons." T. "Perhaps I should get a sprained ankle or something so I'll take time to study." (both laugh) Mrs. K. "That would be awful to have to meet with some misfortune in order to learn our Gospel." T. (rises to leave) "I've enjoyed visiting with you; but I really must be going." Mrs. K. "Will you please hand me my purse. I have a bit of money to donate. (She receives the purse, extracts some change, and hands to the teacher, who writes in her book.) T. "Thank you, Sister King. I do 433 hope the sprained ankle will be better soon. Goodbye." Mrs. K. "Goodbye?come again soon." (Exit. Curtain.) (Scene change. Same teacher walking along?may be in front of curtain?reading. Knocks at a door.) "This is a new member of our Church. She always studies the lessons and is so curious about the methods of the Gospel. If she asks me about the other meetings I'll hardly know what to say. (knocks again) But I'm going to start going regularly. There is so much to learn that is beautiful and good. (knocks, turns away) I guess she isn't home." (Reads as she walks along "Blessed are they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness for they shall be filled." Raises eyes reverently, "Father I thank Thee for this privilege. Help me to be of service." Exit. Music. "Call Me" is a lovely number.) SCENE 3 (Same teacher knocks at an open door in plain view of a young woman seated at a table, head on arms, sobbing. She raises head at knock, rises, wipes tears from eyes and comes graciously forward, and extends hand.) Y. W. "How do you do? Won't you come in? You must be an answer to my prayer. Be seated. It is cooler over here." T. "Thank you, dear. Relief Society teacher. My companion was unable to come. You have just moved here lately, have you not?" Y. W. "Yes, and I know no one. It is so nice of you to call. Won't you tell me about Relief Society? I have always thought it was for only the older people." T. "So many think that. I used to myself. But it is for everyone, and especially the young mothers. I am your 434 We have each Tuesday set apart for different subjects. The teacher topics are given to us at a special meeting during the month. The block or district teachers (that is what I'm supposed to do today) bring the topics into your home for discussion: They are very beautiful and timely for our needs. Then the first Tuesday we study Theology. Our lessons are from the Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants. We also have testimony bearing on that day. These meetings are so inspiring and encouraging. The second Tuesday is work and business day. We make quilts and learn new wrinkles in homemaking. | Sometimes we have a surprise social and special program. The third week is Literary lesson, the study of the classics in poetry, short story, novel, drama." Y. W. (who has been an ardent listener) "It sounds so interesting, almost like a college course." T. "Yes, it is. Then the fourth and last week is our social service lesson and takes up child training, personality development, sociology. Tt is very beneficial to the young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mothers. All." Y. W. "Oh, I'm sure I would. And thank you so much for telling me about them. I would like to go tomorrow, but what about my little ones?" T. "Bring them along. We have a woman to care for them, if you wish. I will call for you." (rises to go) "What beautiful lamps and art work. Did you make them?" Y. W. "Yes. I'm glad you like them. I'll show you how, if you do not know." T. "How sweet of you. But, better still, come and help us on our work and business day. Would you care to?" Y. W. "Yes. J know now you were sent in answer to my prayer. Keeping busy will help to ease the loneliness. My husband died three months ago." T. "Oh, I'm so sorry. I hope we can lighten your loss. (takes her hand) God bless you, dear. Watch for me. I'm coming over often. You've been an answer to my prayers, too, dear. Goodbye."