MALACHI exhorts to repentance, And the advent of Elijah, the Prophet, Notes to the Field Attention Work and Business Leaders Wilt you call your members' attention to the six prizes to be offered by the General Board of the Relief Society for Greeting Cards? It will be a credit to you, to your ward and to your stake, if one of your members wins a prize. Six prizes, copies of Handicrafts for Every Woman, will be given for the best greeting or anniversary cards as follows: For best block print (see page 77 Handicrafts for Every Woman. For best linoleum cut (see page 79 Handicrafts for Every Woman. For best stencil (see page 81 Handicrafis for Every Woman. For best wax crayon (see page 122 Handicrafts for Every Woman. For best spatter paint (see page 156 Handicrafts for Every Woman. For best water color (see page 155 Handicrafts for Every Woman. All designs must be original. They may be for Mother's Day, Birthdays or other anniversaries?such as Relief Society Day, Christmas, New Year's Day or any other occasion. It is hoped that some designs submitted will be suitable to use as cards for gift Relief Society Magazines. Any member of the Relief Society is eligible to enter this contest. All cards must be in the Secretary's office not later than November 15, a ee ae a ee a OY a YY a ee ee Oe, ee Oe ee Oe 1936. Each contestant should be sure that her name and address are on the back of her card. Send cards to General Secretary, Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. OMEN have stepped out of their seclusion and become welcome guests in our homes as singers of songs?new and beautiful. These women heard the whisperings and responded to the inspiration, released their particular gifts, and left their writings as a legacy for us to enjoy. Students of human nature, and from the diverse avenues in which they walked, they have given us gems?spiritual and intellectual. Their contribution has blessed the whole world. HE titile "New Lamps for Old" is from the story of Alladin. Miss Millay gave a recital of some of her poems at the West High School during the winter of 1929. "The Citizen" by Dwyer may be found in Collier's Magazine for Nov. 20, 1915. Teachers may probably procure a copy of this magazine for a little more than regular cost by writing: Mr. Fred Wilkins Danners, Mass. or H. W. Wison & Co., 958 University Ave., New York City, N. Y.