By Fern Killian Grote F A man's sense organs are faulty the impressions he gets are faulty also. If the eyes do not focus properly illusion may be the result. Noises in the head or misleading sounds annoy one and if the subject does not become queer, he is not his normal self. If the olfactory nerves become fatigued he has what we call "smell exhaustion." Quite frequently some of the olfactory nerves become exhausted from continuous use and we say he has got used to a certain odor and can no longer detect it, but the other olfactory nerves are in normal condition and he detects other odors. RELIGION may be defined as man's effort to unify himself with the universe in order that he may feel more at home here. If his religion functions properly, it will make him a better man, happier and more contented, but if his religion is faulty, his adjustment is faulty and his religion often does more damage than good. Like the winding river and the cow path, nervous energy and man's religion tend to follow the line of least resistance. Because of this it is difficult to eliminate superstition from religion. We allow superstition to creep in. In fact we are prone to actually teach it, and invite it. LET us pause for a moment to glance at the mechanical apparatus of thinking. Every minute part of our body is tied up with our thinking. The sensations are called the gateways to the mind. The nerves carry sensory impressions to the nerve centers. The smallest nerve unit is the neurone. Each nervous impulse has to travel from neurone to neurone until it reaches its destination. Between neurones is a neutral zone that offers a certain amount of resistance which has to be worn down and a direct route established. When the eyes see something delightful a sensory neurone chain carries the message to the brain center and the brain sends out a motor chain response and we reach for the object without a conscious thought. We have become efficient in this because these nerve impulses have been traveling continually back and forth over a direct route since we were tiny babies, but how many babies of three or four months can do it? After they learn to look at an object, they have difficulty learning to put their hands on it. Their nervous impulses are traveling the paths of least resistance. They have not yet learned to travel the straight and direct route. The resisting shrubbery must be cut down and a direct route established. HOME of our greatest psychologists say that religion is an instinct. If a child were allowed to grow up alone on an island, he would make some effort to identify himself with the universe, would probably form some idea as to how he got there and what might happen to him. We could hardly expect him to have a religion so complete as Christianity. Religion has a history. An effort to get the goods of life and preserve them with the help upon which we depend spells religion. In ancient days of the burnt sacrifice, people 452 believed that feasts would gratify the nostrils of God and he would hear their prayers. Later they undertook to flatter Him; give Him feasts, and dance and sing to Him. Superstition and distorted ideas were the vogue and we have-not entirely crawled out from under them. How many of us worship in the old fashioned way instead of glorifying our Maker by our lives of good works? Religion works upon the subconscious mind and our thoughts in a very subtle way. Our subconscious mind controls us to a great extent. Most of our work, eating, playing, reading and even thinking is done subconsciously. If we think conscientiously, weigh the facts reasonably, for or against a decision, it is real work. Our subconscious mind is built up from childhood like our nerve patterns and facial features so it is doubly important that we teach our children a religion built solidly upon truth; one that won't suddenly drop out from under them when a critical question arises. Faith is a direct means of reaching the subconscious because one's point of view controls his actions. Guide your child's thoughts while he is young enough to take your word as authority. Teach him to think clear, direct thoughts that appeal to his reason and best judgment. William James, the great psychologist says: "As you think you travel; and as you love you attract. You are 'today where your thoughts have brought you; you will be tomorrow where your thoughts take you. You will realize the vision, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not the idle wish of your heart, be it base or beautiful, or a mixture of both, for you will always gravitate toward that which you, secretly, most love. Whatever your present environment may be, you will fall, remain or rise with your thoughts, your wisdom, your ideal. You will become as small as your controlling desire; as great as your dominant aspiration." If your child's faith is built upon superstition, ignorance, fear and untruth his entire life may become warped, narrow and mean. Look at your own religion. What has it done for you? A> for myself, I want a religion unfettered by the belief that children are born in sin. Such a belief is ugly and unreasonable. I want a religion that will recognize sex in a wholesome, beautiful manner; that will recognize love as the strongest force in the world. I want a religion that teaches "The Glory of God is Intelligence." That teaches progression and keeps me stimulated to do better work. I will consider no dead religions that appeal to fear and negative motives. "Confess and be saved" has passed. I know that the one who puts his hand on the stove and is burned will have a sore hand no matter how much he confesses or repents afterward. It may save him the next burn, but he has to pay for breaking the law. I want a religion unfettered by dogmatism. "Man is that he might have joy." Let me breathe a prayer of gratitude when joy is awakened by love, a strain of music, a scene, or a poem.