As a matter of fact there can be no pioneering without woman. The home, an exclusively feminine product, is the chief factor of civilization and pioneering is not pioneering if it does not civilize and develop the cultural arts which spring into being in the homes and thereby glorify community life. This explains the age-old maxim about the "hand that rocks the cradle, etc." Social security and all that human welfare holds dear lies in the depths of a woman's soul in the transcendent Powers exercised by her in home making. All things are influenced by this most ancient and most sacred of human institutions. The home is the abode of the holy trinity of mortality?the Father, Mother and the Child. As they are revered and loved, civilization is secure. Where they are debased the very heart and soul of humanity is imperiled. From the home comes the ever-flowing stream of human energy, human ideals and ambition. The boon to mankind may also be found in the ever increasing wants that also come from the home. This gives rise to industry, culture, and prosperity. Human ingenuity arises magically to supply human needs and that is the incentive to material progress. Genius is born and nurtured in the home. Patriots are made there and not in politics or public office. They are often ruined in both. Gentle women and gentle men are the flowering gifts of the home. Geniuses receive from the home atmosphere and spirit their first inspiration which often carries them along the rugged path to glory. For these reasons it is vital, if we would get the most out of humanity, that the home be pure, wholesome, democratic and cooperative in spirit and abounding in opportunity. The spirit of God must be there to fit and qualify the individual members of the home for life's mission. Geniuses, or persons of possible distinction, often come to homes of unfavorable environment. That is because they were excellently endowed to begin with. Unquestionably the pre-existent life gave opportunities for development of spirit tendencies which are gifts from their heavenly home and they re-appear in their earth-life still seeking adequate development. If, because of his nobility of character, or other specific endowments, an Abraham, or a Jeremiah, may be chosen before his birth in this life for special missions among men, may there not be others likewise sent, ordained previously to attainable destinies?
EVERY well ordered home, established on the principles of sacred care of all souls intrusted to its keeping should contribute to the unfolding of all noble instincts that are intended to equip every child for its earthly career. In this respect the home becomes an ally, or co-partner, with Deity in making the most out of each child born into the world and thereby ennobling the individual and enriching the race. Can there be an earthly institution of greater importance than the home? These things being true is it not reasonable to assume that every home has its mission and opportunity, as well as its responsibility, to promote the life of the individual and thereby the whole? Think of the home that sheltered a Newton, or a Michael Pupin; a Washington and a Lincoln; a Steinmetz and an Edison. What an important thing is the home. Is it to be wondered at that Deity should make the home a special object of divine concern? It is not going too far to believe that if certain souls have been fore-ordained to certain missions on earth that certain homes may have been chosen for those souls to be born in. Such favored parents share in the high duty of shaping race destinies. And perverted masses of mankind are nothing but neglected souls of many generations. Here are the words of the Lord on this subject to this generation: "Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion... That teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ, the Son of God, and of baptism and of the Holy Ghost, by the laying on of the hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents.
"And they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord."
THE family group is a sacred one. The welfare of each is the eternal concern of the whole. Each one, because of the bonds of love that entwine them all to each other, holds in his life the happiness of the whole. Salvation is collective as well as individual. Our salvation is in a manner wrapped up in our kith and kin. As Andrew Jackson approached the end of his life he said to his family: "My dear children and friends, and servants, I hope and trust to meet you all in heaven, both white and black." The last sentence he repeated, "both white and black." He said this looking at them with tenderest emotion. A few days later, as the end obviously approached he said, "Heaven will not be heaven if I do not meet my wife there." This is in harmony with the law of life as we know it in mortality. Heaven will be natural and governed by intelligent laws. Such hopes are normal to all earthly unions under wedlock sanctified by love. No matter if the marriage vow does limit the duration of the earthly relationship established in the covenant which reads: "To love and to cherish till death do us part." No one can ignore the relationship which has once existed in mortal motherhood. Bonds of the tenderest character, begotten offspring of the noblest sort?eternal souls bound together by the ligaments of human hearts are by nature intended to be eternal. Separation would be a painful tragedy. God designed them to be together eternally.
THE Apostle Paul taught the doctrine of the eternal union which should extend from mortality to immortality as between husband and wife when he said, "Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man in the Lord." That means that in the economy of the Heavenly Father, the union made sacred by parenthood should be perpetuated in the world to come. President Jackson's hopes are well founded. They express the most natural instincts of the human heart. Shall that which is noblest in human nature, maternal love, with its Godlike devotion to a sacred responsibility, be forever abolished or obliterated in the change we call death? And that thereafter only the masculine shall survive? Shall the Mary whom the angel said had "found favor with God" in that she had been selected as the mother of the Lord and to whom the promise was given, "henceforth all generations shall call thee blessed,"?I say, shall her nature then be, in some unthinkable manner, neutralized, and her ennobling virtues nullified? Could she ever become anything more lovely, more beautiful, more glorious, than the Mother of Christ?
The destruction of personality is impossible. Personality is the essential part of the soul and is quite as indestructible. She will always be Mary, "the Mother of Jesus." So will every other woman, who is mother, if she be worthy of her exalted motherhood, be eternally the mother of those to whom she gave birth. Together the man and the woman, with their children, if they obey the celestial law, shall march down through the eons of time eternally progressing and there shall be no end to their kingdom. They shall be added upon and there shall be given to them eternal lives. We think that is what Paul had in mind when he spoke of the inseparability of husband and wife "in the Lord;" i. e., if the Lord's will be done. Upon the occasion of the presenting to the Boy Scouts of America, the Mortimer L. Schiff Scout Reservation, Governor A. Henry Moore quoted these few lines as a tribute to motherhood:
"Gone is the builder's temple, Crumbled into dust. There lies each stately pillar With consuming rust. But the temple the woman builded, Will last while the ages roll; For her beautiful unseen temple, Is the child's immortal soul."
Shall she whom we enthrone in the highest exaltation on earth be dethroned in the hereafter? Shall we deny her a place in the skies which we so willingly accord her here on earth? Not as long as the mother-begotten instincts of nobility throb in the human heart.
FOR a full hundred years the Latter-day Saints have sung in their congregations the beautiful hymn called (improperly, I think) "O my Father." Originally it was called "Invocation" or the "Eternal Father and Mother." We call this a new idea concerning motherhood. It should not be so regarded for the reason that Paul tells us that we have had "fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence; shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of our spirits and live?" It is perfectly natural to believe that whenever, or wherever, there are fathers of human beings, there are at the same time and place, mothers. And so, the well known "Mormon" hymn unfolds this beautiful principle which deifies motherhood. Here are the four lines containing "Heavenly Mother" doctrine:
"In the heavens are parents single? No the thought makes reason stare; Truth is reason, truth eternal, Tells me I've a mother there."
Inspired by the great light which has come to the earth in this day, Eliza R. Snow, sister of the late President Lorenzo Snow, composed this hymn which is regarded as a revelation of a divine truth. With singular appropriateness it was left to woman to make known, in verse, the truths contained in this well known hymn. The hymn I have long regarded as a theme which in scope and prophetic forth-shadowing is, in fact, a biography of all souls as they run their course through the eons of eternity. Thus in the light of a new day, woman's place in safe-guarding all that is pure and holy, uplifting and exalting to the race, in this world and in the one to come, the Latter-day Saints see her eternally enthroned in the heart of the world. She is an ally and co-partner of Deity in whose care he entrusts his children and to whose skill and power he commits their training and development. Shall the product of her hands, the fruitage of her soul, the flower of her affection stand higher than she! Her place is near the throne of God.