MAGAZINE DRIVE ' TIME SEPTEMBER 15th TO OCTOBER 15th PREPARE PLANS NOW DETERMINE TO REACH HIGHER PERCENTAGES THAN YOU DID LAST YEAR Notes from the Field By Julia A, F. Lund ROM the widely scattered fields covered by Relief Society, many interesting biographical sketches come into the office. These tell the story of wonderful lives, devoted to the highest ideals, servants of our Heavenly Father and His children here upon earth. They tell gripping stories of the building of the West, the dangers, the privations and the triumphs of Pioneer days. They are living examples of Faith-Hope Charity. The story of these dear sisters always cover many years of devoted service in the Relief Society. It would give us great pleasure to publish in detail the narrative of these full and beautiful lives, but space will not permit. July is the month when the spirit of the Pioneers is strongly with us, and it is appropriate that a brief sketch be given of as many of these. As we have had sent to the office. We realize that numbers of these noble women have not been known beyond a small community; that only our kind Father above knows the full extent of their services; others have touched the lives of thousands of grateful people. They have all handed to us today a glorious heritage, and whether acknowledged or not they have the love and gratitude of Relief Society. Logan Stake GISTER MARY C. PEHRSSON of the Logan Stake claims the remarkable record of "a Relief Society Visiting Teacher for over fifty-two years?a temple worker for the same length of time." To achieve this distinction is evidence of an angelic disposition, with love and charity for all humanity. This interesting life began in Midoka, Sweden, more than eighty-nine years ago. Her father was a soldier in the Swedish army, but the family lived in a farming district. Sister Pehrsson says, "I attended school until I was thirteen years of age, when I had to go to work. I worked in the field, also learned to spin and weave. I could take the wool from the back of a sheep and put it through all the process necessary to make cloth, then weave the cloth also. I can do the same with flax. "As a young girl, I met Lars Pehrsson, who worked on a farm near the one on which I worked. We became good friends and were married." Early in their married life, a Mormon Elder came into the part of Sweden where they lived. They heard the gospel message and believed it. The urge to come to Zion was very strong. Fifty-six years ago this desire was fulfilled, when they arrived in Logan, Utah, where they made their home; Sister Pehrsson says, "I have lived in three wards of Logan and have never moved from my home." Service in the Relief Society and temple work have been major activities in the life of this worthy Sister. She says, "I attended the dedicatory services of the Logan Temple May 17, 1884, also the fiftieth anniversary of this day, May 17, 1934." "My husband filled two missions to our native land. During these years I worked very hard doing anything and everything to help support my children and keep him on his missions. The Lord blessed us even though we were deprived of many NOTES FROM THE FIELD comforts of this life. Much of my work has been among the sick and with the dead. I took care of five different people in our ward until they died, had to work early and late. Though the journey of life has been long and arduous, it has never caused me to doubt for one minute the truthfulness of the Gospel message we received in our native land." "Now at the age of 89 years, I have nothing to do but go to the temple each day, attend my different meetings and praise God for this privilege. I have been told by the servants of the Lord that my last days will be my best days, and I feel it is so. I have good health, am able to wait on myself and keep my own home, for which I thank my Father." Benson Stake BENSON STAKE furnishes the sketch of another Pioneer woman. Early in this year a Relief Society Visiting Teachers' social was held in Richmond and among the interesting events was the story of this outstanding record of service. Sister Metha Cristofferson, now eighty-four years of age, has been a Visiting Teacher for forty-six years. She is the mother of thirteen children, and even with this great labor of home making and child guidance, she has found time to sew on the burial clothes committee for the Relief Society and to diligently carry on her work in the organization and make her visits most regularly. She feels that the Lord has greatly blessed her, and today she bears the same strong testimony of the Gospel truth that she had when she left her native land?Denmark. South Sevier Stake NE of the very few remaining women who still lives to tell of 457 the personal experience of Pioneer days, is Sister Ann Tidd, Monroe's oldest resident, who was the guest of honor at a social held in the Monroe North Ward Relief Society Hall under the direction of Mrs. Genevieve Tietjen, literary class leader. April 28, 1936, marked her ninety-fourth anniversary. Her life runs almost parallel with that of the Relief Society organization, born April 28, 1842, at Wriglose Magle, Shelland, about ten miles from Copenhagen. She was only eight years of age when Erastus Snow carried the gospel to Denmark. Her father and family embraced the gospel, which made a great change in their lives, as they sold their old home and emigrated to America in 1862. Sister Tidd was twenty-one years old when she left Denmark. She had been in service for seven years during which time she did a great deal of spinning and carding, both wool and flax. She made all of her own clothes and helped with others. This was during the winter months. In the summer she tended cows and worked in the fields. The long sea voyage, with crowded quarters and inadequate food, even the death of one of the party, still present a vivid picture in Sister Tidd's mind. This was followed by the long trek across the continent, more than one thousand miles on foot. It was during the Civil War, and memories of that are still clear, as the reports reached the emigrants on their westward journey. The order of the emigrant trains, the strict food regulations, "the sourdough" bread, the sleeping under the stars, the constant danger from animals and Indians, all these events are undying pictures of that memorable time! Sister Tidd met her husband, 458 James W. Tidd, about two years after her arrival in Utah. Her first home was in Cottonwood, from which she moved to Sanpete. To quote from her own story, "By this time my husband's clothes were badly worn and we had a few head of sheep. I sheared the sheep, washed and carded the wool and spun it into cloth for my husband's suit. "We stayed in Sanpete three years, then we heard of land we could get in Monroe, so we came here in 1872. In the fall of that year the Relief Society was organized by Moses Gibberd, and I was chosen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as treasurer. Shortly after the Mutual was organized, and I was chosen counselor and in 1879 the Primary was organized, and I was chosen president, and held that office sixteen years. Then I was chosen president of the Relief Society and held that office ten years. I was also a teacher in Sunday School all those years." Her biographer says, "Mrs. Tidd still enjoys reading and is a fluent speaker at religious meetings. She cuts and sews rags and makes crochet rag rugs. She does her own work and is. Very neat and clean and is dearly loved by young and old." HE GAVE THEM DREAMS By Grace Zenor Pratt He gave them dreams, the pioneers of old, Visions of future years; that faith so bright That glows in martyr's breasts and wakes again Through deepening trials and the darkest night. God gave them visions of green valleys wide, Of tall spires rising, mystic temple towers, Cool lakes, soft shimmering beneath the blue?, The sunset hills and fairy vales and bowers. He gave them songs to sing when it was evening time? Round camp-fire's dying embers, there beside the way; He gave them rest, reward for toil well done, He gave his own beloved sleep, at close of day. He gave them resignation for each loss; They left their loved ones lonely, silent, free from pain? Far, far beyond that day of sorrow's aching grief? They knew full well that loss would bring its gain. But best of all, He gave them dreams to dream? Of journey ended, home and fireside's peace, Where all the troublings of a hostile world Should be removed; they dreamed of sweet release. They found the place?grey and untilled, forlorn?,. They set their standards?and their faith has wrought A miracle of beauty?God hath heard their plea, And granted answer, greater than they thought.