And easy folk Whose voyages are serene Who never can know from the fate of woe How much a dawn can mean, Understanding Our Children By Virginia B. Jacobsen OM came rushing home from his grocery store one afternoon with his face swollen almost beyond recognition. His eyes were practically shut, his tongue an inch thick, and his hands and wrists a mass of huge welts. Dr. A. Was called immediately, and pronounced it a case of severe hives. "What could have caused it so suddenly, Doctor?' asked Tom's wife. "He went back to work perfectly well and in fifteen minutes he was home here like this." "Tell me exactly what you did after you returned to the store," suggested the doctor. Tom's swollen tongue, mouth and throat made talking very difficult, but he tried to explain. "I picked up a few bunches of turnips and carried them to the vegetable stand. My wrists began to itch and I rubbed them. Then I got a quarter's worth of flour for a customer. I began to sneeze while I was sacking the flour, (flour always makes me sneeze) then I felt my eyes begin to smart. I rubbed them and the first thing I knew I had begun to swell all up like this." "This is what we call a case of Allergy,' said the doctor. "In other words, Tom, you are highly sensitive to certain substances. It wasn't the fault of the flour or turnips that this happened. It is the fault of your own body which cannot tolerate certain foods and substances. The best thing for you to do is to go to Dr. B. He is a specialist in Allergy. We doctors cannot possibly do everything, so while I understand allergy, I am not equipped to make the necessary tests to determine exactly which things you are sensitive to. Dr. B. Has all the equipment, and he thoroughly understands all that is known at the present time about allergy." "But, Doctor, we have never heard of this thing called allergy before. Is it something very new?" asked Mrs. Tom. "The evidences of allergy are not new, but the study of it is. You have heard all your life about eczema, urticaria, hives, hay fever, asthma, migraine headache, continuous colds, sinusitis, sudden swellings in certain parts of the body, and severe stomach aches which are usually attended with formation of flatulence or gas. These have all come to be known as evidences of allergy. They are all usually caused by some food which the body cannot handle, or by some external substance which affects the sensitive individual. "In other words, Tom, you are evidently extremely sensitive to certain substances. You are what we call allergic. The things which cause your distress we call allergens, and your distress we term allergy." "Well, all I can say is that it is very distressing," said Tom. "Will this swelling last long and is this condition dangerous?" = * "Hives, or urticaria, is usually not dangerous or very serious, but a severe attack or a prolonged recurrence of them is extremely annoying and nerve-racking. The condition becomes dangerous when the giant type of hives develops in the throat. For it may cause suffocation. You are beginning to respond to the simple treatment I have given you, and UNDERSTANDING OUR CHILDREN you may be completely recovered inside of a few hours. There is one point on which I wish to warn you. This thing called allergy has nothing to do with all these so called food combination faddists. Don't let anyone try to tell you that it is the combination of foods which you are eating which is causing your trouble. Go to Dr. B. Who is a specialist in allergy and let him determine by positive tests with each food and other substances exactly what your own body can and cannot handle. Then and only then will you be free from a repetition of the hives." Tom followed the advice of Dr. A. He went to Dr. B. Who made the simple skin tests which proved that he was highly sensitive to many of the foods which he ate and handled in his store. Dr. B.'s, advice to him was to leave these foods entirely-alone. He has followed directions and has never had a recurrence of the hives. DOUBILESS you are wondering what this has to do with understanding your children. There are few mothers who do not encounter allergy in one form or another during the lifetime of their children. If more mothers understood and realized that eczema, hives, rashes of different sorts, repeated billious spells, sick headaches, hay fever, sinus, continuous colds and a few other conditions are very frequently the result of some one food or foods which the child cannot handle, there would be far less suffering and worry. Many mothers spend countless dollars and many hours of worry when simple tests by a specialist in allergy could determine the cause of the distress, and the elimination of the offending foods might easily and quickly correct the condition. One little fellow of three persistently 427 vomited after almost every meal. It was found that he could not tolerate butter. This was purely an allergic condition which brought on severe vomiting. When the butter was eliminated from his diet, the child retained his food. Another child on record frequently had spells of unconsciousness. He had never been strong, and had eczema. A competent physician was consulted and it was found, after exhaustive tests, that he was sensitive to ten or twelve foods. He could not handle egg, cow's milk, wheat, several fruits and five or six vegetables. His diet became a very limited affair, but cleared up his serious condition. A peculiar thing about this particular case was that the next child in this family also was highly allergic and was unable to eat practically the same foods as her brother. Friends and relatives blamed the mother in various ways. It was a strange thing, they said, that two children in the same family could not handle cow's milk and had to be fed on goat's milk. But the anxious mother turned a deaf ear to all criticism and persisted in following the advice of her specialist. Asa result, her children gradually built up a resistance to the offending foods until they were able to eat almost anything. It was a terrific struggle for the mother but she came out victorious. HIS illustrates the point that allergy tends to run in families. The allergy itself is not hereditary, but certainly the tendency toward being allergic is inherited. In the thousands of cases which have been brought to the testing laboratories in the past ten years, it has been conclusively found that where one parent is allergic about sixty percent of the children of that union will show some evidence of allergy. On the 428 other hand, where both parents are allergic, it has been found that more than eighty percent of the offspring will be allergic sufferers. This gives ample reason for the statement made by workers in this field that two allergic individuals should not marry. The strange thing about allergy is that where one parent may suffer with migraine headache and the other with hay-fever or any other allergic evidence, the children may be afflicted with still another form of allergy such as eczema. The inheritance simply seems to be a matter of the inability of the individual RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE body to handle 'certain foods. The discomfort or distress brought about by this sensitivity to certain substances may be evidenced in any of the allergic conditions. We are fortunate to live in a period of history when research along this line is making life more comfortable both for children and their troubled parents. It is seldom necessary, today, for children to continue to suffer with eczema, hives, persistent colds, billious headaches, hayfever, asthma, or skin eruptions as they have done in ages not so far past.