MOTHER By Bertha M. Rosvear
God has given us blessings far more than our share, Since He placed us on earth here to live; But to crown all the rest He has graciously given The most priceless He ever could give, Though He carefully searched through the Heavens and earth He never could find such another. To each He has given that which we love best, A wonderful, wonderful Mother.
No one else so lovingly, patiently would Have tended our long baby years; With unceasing vigilance watched, day and night, To shield, lest some danger come near. No one else humbly, earnestly would have prayed For patience to teach us aright The laws of rectitude, virtue, and truth So pleasing in God's holy sight.
So, too, as we came to maturer estate Her sympathy, guidance, and love, As a sweet benediction, inspiring fell 'Round our lives, as a light from above. And though oft we were thoughtless, and grieved her, 'tis true, Perhaps caused her much sorrow and pain, Her faith never faltered, her love, still as true, Brought us back to our senses again.
Our Father, we thank Thee, for this Holy day, So different from any other; And sincerely our honor, and homage we pay, Each one, to his own dearest Mother. We ask Thee to bless her, and keep her from harm, That she may continue to be Our loving companion, inspiring us on To Heaven, to Glory, To Thee.
 L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS! You cannot build a great BRIDGE without a _ blue print. You cannot construct a RAILROAD without a survey. Neither can you mold a SUCCESSFUL CAREER without-a plan. Ask for our booklet "Planning Your Future" L. 0. 8. Business College | 70 North Main Wasatch 1812 Salt Lake City, Utah | WORD TO THE -BRIDEAmid the excitement of preparation for _ the || happy event, it is com-" forting to know that your wedding stationery is correct in form and in the latest mode. See our beautiful new stock of | social stationery and let us handle this detail for you, assured that it will receive the most painstaking care. Prices very modest. Om, a i Call or write for samples THE DESERET | NEWS PRESS | PIONEER PRINTERS AND | BINDERS | Sat Lake City = — When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 29 Richards Street | Ss tating prom an |DEAL Everything worthwhile in the lives of individuals or groups starts from an ideal... Whether it be the immigration of a great body of religious people to there promised land, or the starting of a life insurance estate, for oneself and family. This friendly insurance company is also built on an ideal to give low cost insurance protection to the greatest possible number of people. To encourage this, Beneficial premiums are among the lowest; dividends are high; and every policy holder participates in all the net earnings of the company. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OFFICE HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT Saur Laks City, UTAH