Woman the Home Maker: The Pioneer? Her Exalted Place By Nephi L. Morris
THE homes of a people determine the destiny of the nation. In the same stronghold lies the power and fate of the Church. Homes are institutions which are almost entirely the expression of the personalities of the women who make them. Men build houses and women transform them into homes. The woman is the soul of the sacred institution and when she is not there the home-spirit has also gone. Where she is, is home. This line of reasoning suggests that home is a spiritual thing. The elements which contribute to its making are the graces and tastes, spirit and accomplishments of the woman. Her personality is seen and felt in every feature of the home. These inestimable qualities cannot be bought with money. Peace, trust, security, warmth, welcome, love are things not for sale at the stores. They are the spiritual endowments and adornments which find perfect development in the divine art of home-making. These exquisite qualities are innate in woman. Girls early manifest the sublime gift in play-houses and doll tending in the crude make-believe creations they start in childhood. The instinct is unerring and prophetic as all true instincts are.
WHEN Deity started man on his career back on the border of time he gave him an help-meet and transformed the botanist and biologist with his catalogued lists of plants and animals, all properly classified, no doubt, into an emotional creature and the reaction of the woman upon him made him delightfully human. This was the first bit of pioneering begun on the earth. The woman element was essential in the enterprise then and ever since. Some modern pioneers seem to omit from the records the contribution made by the women in their heroic achievements. We think we have seen a monument erected to the pioneers of a certain large area consisting of many towns and villages, with the names of the pioneer men boldly inscribed upon the faces of the monument. To the amazement of a visitor there appears to have been done in that community the most miraculous piece of pioneering ever done in the world. Towns and villages, city homes and farms, schools and play grounds and never a woman in the picture. This appears to be a wonderful accomplishment, one quite beyond the ability of Deity back in Eden.