Prayer By a Mother Who Knows Characters?Mother and Father, Jack (16), Phil (8), Ruth (14), Sylvia (6) and Babe (4), also doctor and two neighbors. Setting?Living room of the family. Time?Sunday School time and right after. (Mother is at writing desk writing? father is reading papers. They are talking as curtain rises.) F. You see mother, it sort of made me lose faith in that sort of thing?I had never prayed more earnestly for anything in my life before?and then to see nothing change?just that terrible suffering until he finally (rustles papers to control feelings.) M. Have you ever considered, dear, that perhaps it was better for him to go then than to remain and never be able to see or hear again? F. The least the Lord could have done would have been to have eased his suffering. Oh, I want you to teach the children to pray?its good training for them?but I hope they don't fasten on it as I did and get such a jolt. M. I'm sure its good training and we haven't done justice to it in our home yet. Here's quite a comprehensive statement of it by Santayana ?"In rational prayer the soul may be said to accomplish three things important to its welfare?withdrawal within itself and defines its good ?accommodates itself to destiny." (pauses and studies father) F. Well? M. (continues to read) "And it grows like the ideal it conceives." F. Uh-huh. (is once more enjoying his papers) M. (to self) Evidently more than the children in this family need converting. (exit) (Babe enters dressed in Sunday best? runs to Daddy and throws herself in his arms disregarding papers.) F. (laughing) Say?whoa?(settles her on lap) "What did you learn in Sunday School today, Babe?" B. A new piece?I can say it (recites) "Father, give us day by day, joy and strength in work and play, Make us good and kind and true, loving Thee in all we do." (Looks for approval at father who beams at her performance and then she sees a comic strip in paper he still holds) Oh, Daddy?read me about Bim Dump. F. (following strip) Bim and Andy are talking to this man?see he is a doctor?Bim says, "And doctor I wish you would look at my wife?I don't like her looks?" Andy looks at the doctor who says "all right" and he says?'Say doctor I wish you'd do something about my wife's looks too?I don't like them either." (Other children enter throwing hats, flopping in chairs and causing general confusion arguing together. Ruth and Jack enter together.) Ruth. ''That teacher is nuts." Phil. Hey, mom, isn't dinner ready? M. (returns to room) All ready? roast chicken, mashed potatoes, tomato salad?" (all start for dining room but she stops them) Wait?I have cooked a lovely dinner for you and I want some thanks. J. (kisses her) Swell mom! M. (laughs) No?I want you to do something for me. 440 R. Oh, let's eat first! M. (goes to desk and brings slips) Today all over the church we are to emphasize prayer?here are some short prayers for you?see who can learn his first while I'm getting dinner on. (hands each one?they object with) "Ah rats'?"Oh Mother" ?(Ruth offers to help instead but each finally agrees) (Phil takes his off to corner and starts to shouting but Jack stops him and they finally settle down. Father returns grudgingly to his papers. Mother returns twice to announce "five more minutes" then later "one more minute'?then returns. Babe skipped outside when mother said, "Five more minutes," she stands around until then.) R. Mother, did you write these? M. Oh my no, I found them in the Parents' Magazine. All right, Phil?first? (Mother has to prompt Phil and Sylvia.) Phil. "Father of Human Kindness, teach us to be kind. Keep us from doing unkind or cruel things to any animal or person. Help us to be as good to others as we would have them be to us. Give us gentle words, quiet voices and kindly tongues. May we never call people unkind names or speak unpleasantly of their clothes or toys. Make us sorry when others are in trouble quick to see how we can help them?Amen." But, mother, it wasn't my fault if Sonny got caught?I wasn't even there. (mother gestures him to stop talking and says) M. Ruth? R. "Wise teacher of mankind? we want to be wise. Go with us to our school where we learn (glances at paper) make us honest, never cheating nor taking unfair help from *These prayers are used by permission of "The Parents' Magazine." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE others. May we help the teacher by doing the things she wishes and thus show our thanks for the things she is teaching us. Help us to be good friends with the other students. If others do many things better than we, help us to praise them and be glad with them. If we excel in anything keep us from conceit. Give us real joy in our work because we are always striving to do our best" ? there! (returns paper) S. "Giver of true joy?be with us in our play, make us play fair so that others may have a good time too. May we never hurt or spoil the fun for those who play with us. Even in play, may we be thoughtful lest we damage the toys, lawns, bushes, and fences around us. Help us to use our strength to defend the weak, and never to be snobbish but friendly to all. Make us unselfish, glad to_ share our toys with others. Amen." J. (starts right in and talks fast to get to dinner sooner) "Father of Courage?We would be brave, so brave that we shall always tell the truth and do the right, so brave that we shall never need to talk too big nor boast, so brave that we do not cry over little hurts, so brave that we shall never fight except to defend someone who needs our help. Take away our foolish fears and make us brave. Amen." Say, mother, you want us to think when we pray and pray for real values. Your idea is not to have a set wording for a prayer and say it every time, is it? Well, Mom?your kids won't be as dumb about prayer as Jones? They had Apostle Smith to dinner and Junior came in late and looked around and right before the Apostle he said, "Hey?Dad?why are all the chairs turned this way?" (all laugh) M. The chicken is all carved, daddy. PRAYER (All rush through the door, mother last but father turns as he gets to door? others have gone out.) F. Where's babe? M. I think she went out to play? call her, dear. (Mother exits after others. Father exits outside door. Stage is empty and very still for a minute?then a child's: terrible scream is heard from distance? followed by hoarse cry from father. A long pause then father carries baby in as the rest of family rush in terrified. Babe is laid on couch. Mother almost loses control?calling to baby?neighbors near front of stage.) N. Did you get the doctor? N. He's on his way?how on earth did it happen? N. They were chasing each other and didn't see the car?it must have been going at least 50 anyway? (Doctor enters?asks all but parents to leave. Makes swift examination.) Dr. Still unconscious?no outside injuries except severe bruises?there may be inside (pours something on sponge and holds to her face but she still les inert)?I'm sorry?there's nothing can be done but just wait. (Father paces floor?mother is quiet, kneeling at couch?occasionally sobs. Father calls in others who are huddled on other side of door.) 441 F. (arms around Jack and Sylvia) There is something that can be done ?but I haven't strength to do it alone?we can pray for her?our prayer may not be answered?but we are willing to abide by the decision of God who knows best. (they all kneel except father who stands and with uplifted face says merely) "Our hearts are full of gratitude to Thee, oh God, for this choice treasure you have given us?we feel unworthy but we humbly and earnestly ask thee, gracious Father, to spare her to us yet a while?because?we love her so?and yet in true sincerity we say ?thy will and not ours be done? Amen." (a long pause) (Mother goes to father who puts his arms around her for support. Another long pause then Babe stirs?she moves? she slowly sits up and holds head?other children and parents must be so grouped that this is very evident to audience? children watch her holding their breath ?father still facing front stage with mother clinging to him?she finally sees him and calls faintly but clearly.) B. "Daddy?Daddy." (His eyes open in joyful awe?then he closes them as if to silently utter a brief prayer of gratitude?or perhaps stop unruly tears?then he and mother rush to their baby as the curtain falls.) "THIS IS THE PLACE" By Katherine Fernelius Into the echoing silences Beneath the lonely desert sky, A leader spoke four simple words, And if the buzzard sailing high Had heard, he would have screamed with glee; "This is the place" ?a place to die! Scorched, barren plain, a dead salt sea, And sagebrush, dreary mile on mile? How harsh it must have smote their eyes, That weary and slow-moving file! Four pebbles dropped in a placid pool... 7 His words an age-old silence broke In that vast space of sky and plain; The little sleeping echoes woke And spread... And gained... And grew apace... And now ten thousand voices ring In glorious song, "This is the Place!"