The Great Gift By Minnie Seaver
"ISN'T this the loveliest gift?"
Excitedly Virginia Morgan extended a tanned arm for her Grandmother to see the small jeweled wrist watch. It was her birthday gift from William Hartley, Summerville's new doctor and decidedly the "Catch" of the season.
"It is very pretty, dear," agreed Grandmother Morgan slowly.
"Grannie, you don't think Mother will mind my keeping this, do you?" she asked anxiously. "She made such a fuss when William gave me those crystals, and of course this is a lot more expensive."
"My dear," said Grandmother slowly, "It isn't that she doesn't approve of Dr. Hartley or doesn't want you to have the things you like, but you have only known him such a short time and?"
"And she's afraid Bob wouldn't like it. Well, what if he doesn't? After all I'm not married to him, and I'm not at all sure that I ever will be. A girl has to consider a lot of things when she gets married. I'd like to marry someone who'd take me places, who could buy me some clothes and a car! Mother's idea of a summer vacation is a one-day picnic, taking the children. And her idea of a formal is a print dress with organdy sleeves."
"I don't see nothin' wrong with Mom's ideas. Who do you think you are anyway, the queen of Ethiopia?" questioned the lanky John, looking up from his book.
"You keep still," blazed his older sister, "I never get any nice clothes and you know it! Since I graduated from high school I've had only two dresses that weren't made-overs, and never any jewelry! When somebody gives me something nice, like those crystals, Mother thinks I shouldn't keep them?because Bob wouldn't understand! Why, you'd think I was already married to him, to hear her talk!"
"Well," volunteered John, "If he ever finds out what kind of a temper you've got, you won't have a chance to get married to him."
"Is that so? Let me tell you something, when he comes home from that mission he may not find me waiting to marry him! He isn't the only man on earth and what's more when I get married I intend to get something out of it. I'll stay single all my life before I'll marry a man who can't give me the things I want! Bob won't even have a job when he does get back."
John, having returned to his book, offered no further comment. Grandmother looked at her strangely and went back to her sewing.
"You think it's all right for me to keep this watch, don't you, Grandmother."
"I think you should be allowed to decide for yourself whether or not you want to keep it."
"And will you tell Mother that?" hastily interrupted Virginia.
"Why yes, if you want me to. I believe I know a story that would interest you."
Virginia looked doubtful, but she had not yet outgrown the little girl habit of prizing Grandmother's stories, so she sat down on the rough board floor of the porch.
"We want to hear it," assured Grace and she immediately began moving her large family of nondescript dolls. Grandmother was constructing a new pair of legs for Beth, largest and homeliest of the doll family. When John, always loyal to Grandmother's stories, had carefully placed a leaf in his book for a marker, Grandmother began.
"MY story begins in early spring in far-away England. A young girl whom we shall call Dorothea, was waiting for her father in the parlor of her home. She walked slowly around the familiar room, stopping before each of the numerous portraits on the wall. Serious men and women looked down at her from their massive gilt frames.
"She stopped in front of the mantel and glared angrily at a bewhiskered gentleman. 'You even look stubborn,' she accused. 'And I suppose that it's only natural Dad should have inherited your disposition! The idea of giving up everything and going to that place called Utah. Why can't he listen to reason.'
"As a matter of fact no one in the family quite understood Father Dale's attitude. His sister, Mrs. Melba Morriston, complained, 'If Richard wasn't so stingy with his words a body might reason with him?but then he's so set in his ways 'twould probably do no good anyway.'
"Mr. Dale knew what he wanted and what he was going to do. He silenced all arguments by repeating again and again, 'I'm convinced that the Mormon religion is true and Martha and I are going to Utah where we can live that religion and build a new home in a new land.'
"He looked forward to the journey and did not understand his wife's reluctance. Martha did not try to explain. Her love for the big house where she had come as a bride so many years ago, would have been hard to put into words. She loved each room, rich in the memory of the childhood of her children, and perhaps most of all she loved the ivy that crept up the wall by her bedroom window. She had planted that ivy the year her first child and only son had been born. Now it stretched across the whole west end of the big brick house and the little trailer that blew constantly across the window sill reminded her of John. And there was always a comfort in cutting the ivy and taking it to the cemetery to lay on her baby's grave. But Dale was her husband, his life was her life and so, silently, she made preparations to go to this far-away land now called Utah.
"Many busy days passed before the house was finally sold and the goods that were to be taken packed. Virginia sometimes glimpsed the pain in her mother's eyes. Pain which the quick drooping lids could not always hide, as she selected the pitifully few keepsakes which were to make the long journey. Dorothea, eighteen, was to stay with her Aunt Melba, but Margaret, five years younger, would go with her parents.
"At last all arrangements were made and on a clear cool morning Father Dale and the excited Margaret sat waiting in the carriage. Dorothea ran through the empty house and found her Mother clutching a sprig of ivy at the bedroom window. For the first time Dorothea realized the significance of their parting. In a few weeks her Mother would be thousands of miles away.
"'I'm going, too,' Dorothea sobbed, 'I can't let you and little Margaret go to that dreadful place alone.'
"'We're going with your father, dear,' her mother reminded her quietly. 'No, dear, I think it is better that you stay. Aunt Melba is very fond of you and after a while you won't mind our being gone so much and you have promised to marry Phillip next fall. Sometimes,' she finished wistfully, 'when you aren't busy you can come back here and take some of this ivy out to John's grave, and I'll be happier knowing that someone who loved him is near.'
"Dorothea never forgot just how her mother looked standing there, no tears in her eyes, just a calm patient bravery. She held a little piece of ivy in her hand and looked out at the steeple of the Church where she had been married."
The aged Grandmother's voice faltered, and she wiped her glasses.
"VIRGINIA moistened her lips, "Did Dorothea stay in England?"
"Yes," resumed Grandmother. "She was young then and although she missed her family very much at first, like her childhood, they soon seemed to belong to a hazy past. Only when she received a letter did their existence seem vivid and real. The first letter came late in May.
"'The trip was very long and very hard,' her mother wrote, 'and now that we are here, even loving your father as I do and trying so hard to accept this new faith in which he so firmly believes, I cannot help but ask myself, For what have I given up my home, my friends, my daughter? Was it for this desolate waste, this briny lake? You cannot imagine how bleak and uninviting a struggling town looks. And too, frontier life is hard, so very hard for a woman. Yet these people seem contented and your father seems happy. I can scarcely understand it. Religion does strange things to people.
"'Don't fail to realize, my darling, the security and comfort Phillip offers you. I am sure he will do very well in his law office and it is ever a comforting thought to me, that you will not have these hardships to face.
"'I should not write like this. Your father would be displeased if he knew.'
"IN the second letter, four months later, discouragement had been replaced by cheerfulness and new hope. Their small farm was planted in Indian corn, wheat and rye. A branch irrigation ditch connected them with the canal which carried water from the Jordan river and their three-roomed house was nearly completed.
"'It is most amazing,' the letter continued, 'how much can be accomplished here in a short time. When a new house is to be built, an irrigation ditch dug or new ground broken all the neighbors come to help. Their willingness to make mutual sacrifices, their remarkable ability, their determination and above all the sincerity of their devotion to God makes the Latter-day Saints a most unusual people.'
"'Your mother must be getting the religious bug, too,' commented Aunt Melba dryly. 'But then she might as well make up her mind to like it, seeing she's there.'
"'It seems to me,' remarked Phillip after reading the letter, 'that all this religion is foolish. Live while you live is my motto and let death take care of itself. I believe religion is mainly for people who are afraid of death anyway.'
"'Dad wasn't religious because he was afraid of anything,' stoutly defended Dorothea, 'and you have said yourself that he was a very intelligent man. I wonder what it is about the Mormon religion that made him become so interested?' That was a question to which she found an answer almost a year later.
"Summer slipped into fall and along the quiet streets autumn leaves lay in bright red and golden drifts. Bonfire smoke hung in the hazy air, and Dorothea stitched busily away at the soft curtains and creamy linens that were to go into her hope chest.
"One windy afternoon she came hurrying into the house and excitedly unwrapped a lovely white satin wedding gown. The little bodice was high and tight with a cluster of pink rose-buds at the waist above the soft billows of the skirt. Aunt Melba was admiring her choice when the postman brought another letter from Utah.
"'Dearest Daughter: It is with a sad heart that I write you this.
"'On the second of July your father had a serious accident. While working on the roof of our house, he fell to the ground, injuring his spine and causing paralysis.
"'Elder Williamson is taking us all to San Francisco, where we can put your father in a hospital. We hope for the best but I think it will be wise for you to take the next boat for San Francisco.
"'May God comfort you and bring you safely to me. Your Loving Mother.'
"Three days later Phillip put Dorothea on a ship at Portsmouth.
"'You must convince your father of the necessity of coming back to England for medical treatment,' Phillip cautioned her again. 'This religious fanaticism has gone far enough!'
"'Oh, Phillip, don't talk about his religion now!'
"'Well, what else is responsible for his being in that uncivilized desert?'
"'I don't know?but surely he'll get well. He must!' Dorothea cried softly in the shelter of Phillip's arms and knew a ghastly fear of the future.
"During the voyage she was scarcely conscious of the rough sea, of the ship's motion" or of its other passengers. "All through the long days she was tortured by anxiety for her father. She forgot his abruptness, forgot that he was self-willed and overpositive in his opinions. Now she remembered only his kindness, his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE jolly good-humor, his tolerance and understanding of her childish escapades. In her misery she imagined that he might die before she arrived. "At last the ship crept into the land-locked bay and San Francisco manteled in fog stretched before her. On the dock Elder Williamson and a sun-tanned Margaret met her. After disengaging herself from Margaret's arms to acknowledge the introduction Dorothea asked in a tense voice, 'How is father?" "Perhaps the young Elder guessed something of the fear that lurked in her heart. Taking her hand in his strong clasp he answered, 'He's doing fine, and is very anxious to see you.' "A few minutes later the three of them reached a comfortable adobe house that belonged to 'Pap' and 'Auntie' Jonston, friends of Elder Williamson. They had insisted that Mr. Dale be moved to a room in their home when he left the crude hospital. "Ina large, comfortably furnished room Dorothea found her parents. "Oh father,' she sobbed, kneeling by his bed, 'It seems so long since I saw you.' "*We have missed you, too, my child, very, very much.'. "Are you really getting better?? Dorothea stroked the thin hair which was so much greyer now. "Sure I'm better. Why by next month I'm going back to Utah to start the spring plowing. We have a dandy farm. You'll have to come back with us and see it.' "That night, in one of Auntie Jonston's big four posters, Mrs. Dale said, 'What hurts the most is your father's cheerfulness, he is so positive that he is going back to Utah.' "What do the doctors say?' questioned Dorothea., "'They say,? came the muffled THE GREAT GIFT answer, 'that he will never go back. He is absolutely paralyzed and cannot live much longer.' " RANDMOTHER MORGAN paused again, this time she took the battered Beth from Gracie's arms and adjusted the new legs, then slowly continued. "But it seems that only God who gave life, takes it. They were all wrong. Father Dale did go back to Utah. To be sure he went flat on his back, but go he did, and Dorothea went with him. Not, however, before she wrote Phillip and explained as best she could her father's flat refusal to return to England and her family's need of help. ~ " "It's just for this spring and summer,' she assured him, 'next fall I'll come back and we will be married. By then Father will surely either decide to return to England too or at least be improved in health.' "On the trip back Dorothea learned much concerning the new land. She was surprised to know how the Latter-day Saints emphasized education. She laughed at Elder Williamson's description of the 'tent' where Mary Jane Dilworth had taught the twenty-third Psalm on that first day of school. Banter of Elder Williamson made the weary days seem short. ITH all they told her, Dorothea was unprepared for Salt Lake with its pearl-grey Temple from whose majestic spire the golden statue of the Angel Moroni stood, forever a symbol of the gospel he taught. "Tt seems unreal, it is so monumental in this vast, lonely valley,' Dorothea said. ""Tt is an example of what faith and determination can build,' Elder Williamson answered. ""I suppose this Temple means The lively 415 a great deal to the people of your church?' "Tt is the house of God,' was the reverent answer. 'Someday when you know more of our religion I shall tell you of its significance.' WHEN suddenly they were home. Home in the little town with its broad streets and many gardens where trees and flowers, transplanted from the canyons, now grew. Home among a kindly far-sighted people who knelt upon their hearthstones and asked God's blessings for their afflicted brother and looked after his immediate needs themselves. "Voluntary labor added a new room to the house for Dorothea and a porch along the south end, where on warm days Father Dale could enjoy the sunshine. The garden was planted and the spring plowing done. "Father Dale grew more firm in his belief that he would walk again. 'All things are possible to those who' have faith in God,' he often said. "Dorothea was never to forget the kindness of these people or the love and responsibility which they shared for each other. Nor was she ever to forget the evening she first stood by Elder Williamson, on the shore of the Great Salt Lake. "Under the evening sky, the lake's blue surface stretched fifty miles away to lap at the feet of the mountains, purple shadowed and crimson topped in the sunset. The heavy silence of the desert hung over them, broken only by the lonely wail of the seagulls as they wheeled above the vast dead sea. "Her companion spread his homespun coat upon the ground and they sat gazing in silence across the rippled mirror, mystic and unreal in the evening mist. "Dorothea leaned back against his shoulder, hardly conscious of his arrive 416 about her waist, until his voice broke her reverie. "Dorothea, I love you.' "Dorothea turned a startled gaze to the bronzed, earnest face of the man beside her. 'Why, Charles, you can't? "'But I do!' "Oh, I'm so sorry. I didn't realize you were beginning to care for me that way. I should have told you sooner?' "You mean that you really love this young lawyer in England?' "Why, I guess so?of course I do. I'm going to marry him!' " 'Well, that settles it. Lucky man, this Phillip.' "Charles, I am truly sorry. I shouldn't have seen you so often or been with you so much.' Dorothea said miserably. " Tet's be sensible about it. You love another man. I promise never again to speak to you of?of how I feel about you unless you ask me to. In the meantime our friendship is something too valuable to lose.' "Let's go on as though this had never happened until I go back to England,' she answered bravely, not quite knowing why it was so hard to keep back the tears. IN the days that followed Dorothea marveled more and more at the faith and trust these people placed in God. 'They seem so positive that their prayers will be answered,' she wrote to Phillip, 'It is a strange religion, the people who believe it are so conscious of it. They seem actually to live it every moment. Whether they plant a seed or christen a new baby, they always believe that God has a hand in it.' ??All this talk of religion makes me disgusted,' was Phillips answer, three months later. 'Now if your father would only come back here, no doubt some of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE our doctors could do something for him, but no! Because of that wild, all-demanding religion he is blinded to reason or wisdom. Somehow from your letters I feel as though that religion was a monster which would even try to take you away from me. Don't let it, Dorothea. Come back now, the hawthorns are in bloom again, the little house on Elm street which I bought for you is empty and silent. " 'Flow can you stay out there, groveling in the dirt on a bare farm, living in a mud-chinked hut by a dead lake with a bunch of religious fanatics? Don't wait until fall, come back now. I love you and want you.' ""How completely he misunderstands us all,' Dorothea thought. Through the open south door she could see Elder Williamson working in the garden plot. He straightened up and called to her, 'Come out and supervise the weeding.' "As Dorothea came out with the letter still in her hand, her father asked, 'What news from England this time?' "Phillip asks about your health and urges me to hurry back to England,' she told him. "From his couch on the porch Father Dale looked sharply at her, 'Still going back to England, are you? I was beginning to hope that you liked this place well enough to stay.' "Trying to transplant me, too, were you?' Dorothea laughed and then continued more seriously. 'I do like it here, very much. But there aren't many comforts or conveniences compared with England. And you people are so very dependent upon the land. A crop failure would mean famine!' ""You forget that God is always ready to help us. Someday you, too, will learn to depend on him,' her father predicted. ""Perhaps. But in the meantime I am inclined to be very materialistic. Then, too, I have promised THE GREAT GIFT to marry Phillip and I value the things he can give me.' "Elder Williamson quickly changed the subject back to gardening. And in the busy summer days that followed no questions were asked concerning Dorothea's plans for returning to England. While day after day she postponed writing to Phillip. HEN one golden summer morning, an astonishing bit of news traveled through the town. Neighbors called to each other from their work in the fields. Women scurried back and forth, and children stopped a moment in their tasks or at their play. Only two people seemed not at all surprised. Elder Williamson said reverently, 'God has answered our prayers.' " "Father Dale, walking uncertainly on his clumsy legs answered, 'Yes, God is very good to us!' "Many friends and _ neighbors came to his home that day, and Richard Dale explained again and again how he had awakened in the morning with the thought, 'I can walk.' His wife had been alarmed at this assertion, but a few hours later he had taken his first steps and later in the day walked to the window and back. "When night came, gathered at their fire-side, the Mother turned to Dorothea and said in an awed voice. 'I am ashamed now, for having resented leaving England. For the little that I gave up I have gained more than I am capable of understanding.' ""And God must love us, or he wouldn't have healed father,' added a sleepy Margaret. "Long after the family had retired Dorothea sat trying to finish a letter to Phillip. The good news would mean much to him, she realized, for now, there was no reason 417 for postponing her return to England. "She was interrupted by a step on the porch and then a soft knock. In answer to her, 'Come in,' Elder Williamson opened the door. "Seeing her he apologized, 'Oh, I am sorry, I saw the light so late and wondered if your father's exertions had been too much for him.' "*No, Father's fine. I was just writing a letter but the words seem rather illusive.' ""Perhaps a walk would help straighten out your thoughts?but perhaps we shouldn't. I forgot for the moment how late it is.' - "'T think we should. In fact I believe it's just what I need,' Dorothea replied. "A few minutes later they walked slowly down the shadowed streets where trees traced their lacy patterns and water rippled down irrigation ditches, catching the amber and gold reflections of a new moon. Somehow the beauty of the night, the heavy stillness of the sleeping town and the tall man beside her were hopelessly mixed with her thoughts of England. "At last they turned into the temple block and stood before the shadowed edifice, ethereal in the moonlight. ""You said once that you were going to tell me more about this Temple?you might tell me now,' Dorothea said. " "Tt is time you heard it all?now that you plan to leave us.' He paused and then continued, his slow certain voice pieced together all the fragments of Church History which she had heard. He told her the vivid story of Joseph Smith's vision and the first Temple at Nauvoo. Of the far-sighted leadership of Brigham Young and the self-sacrificing people whom he led. His people, noble 418 and courageous in their devotion to God. "As he talked she found herself believing. Suddenly she knew that never again could she question God in her heart. He had made her father walk again, his spirit was hovering over this silent desert town and was here in the voice of the man beside her. " "You have seen my religion as a monster that took everything and gave nothing,' he continued, 'but you are wrong, your eyes have been blinded because you do not understand. God asks little of us, just that we be reverent, and live together in righteousness and peace, and he gives us so very, very much. He gives us the promise of life eternal. Yet you will throw it all away because somewhere in England there is a man who can give you comfort and the security which money buys. He cannot give you more, in his blindness he accepts death as the end and through his prejudice he will never enter one of God's temples, to be sealed to you. He offers you a love than can span the short space of a human life and ignores a religion through which he could have given you the great gift, 'Eternal Love'.' "Suddenly Dorothea's thoughts RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE were no longer tangled. Suddenly she knew the ending for the half-finished letter. She knew why she had delayed writing for so long and in her heart there was a great peace and happiness of which she could scarcely speak. " "Would you care to offer me that great gift again?' she asked shyly. "*T would!' Holding her close he added, "And I promise to love you through all eternity.' "AND did she marry him?" questioned the impatient Grace. "Yes," said her Grandmother. "And they were very happy. Dorothea never regretted her choice. He only lived until he was forty-two and through all the lonely years that followed she knew that he was waiting for her in another world." "That's a pretty good story," said John loyally as he returned to his book, 'Buffalo Bill." Virginia stood up slowly, "Of course you were Dorothea. Mother told me something of the story and I knew Grandpa died early." She dropped the tiny watch into her Grandmother's lap and asked, "Will you wrap it up for me?" Her Grandmother looked up quickly. "I too, shall take the great gift," she explained. FRUITION By Josephine Spencer Oft God, along the broken road, Leads souls with rods of sharpest steel; But hides his manna in life's load, And spreads cool springs to cool, and heal.