(Curtain) You would enjoy them Writing and Pasting By Yvonne Adamson HAVE two besetting sins. Be- ] cause of them, temptation assails me as I look at a clean white sheet of paper, and as IJ try to pass a fifteen cent store. I usually give way to the insidious desire that goads me on. In spite of, a slightly guilty conscience I enter the store and sneak down to the stationery counter. With the air of an explorer I glide past the envelopes and correspondence paper to the realm of notebooks and scrapbooks. Carefully, so as not to attract a salesgirl to me, I look them over. Suddenly, a thrill possesses me. A pasteless scrapbook! A Scribble-in Book. Oh, and a dark green colored book for recipes! I am doomed, for a salesgirl says, ""May I serve you?" I buy all three of them, as I excuse myself with: "We don't really need that salad dressing. I can make some." HEN I unwrap them at home, my husband groans, 'More scrapbooks! Why you haven't filled up the ones you've already started." I overcome that criticism by demonstrating to him the pasteless scrap- WRITING AND PASTING book. '"Where's something to paste in it?" he asks, and he is so absorbed in those pages and pages of recipes that wouldn't fit in my other recipe books that he doesn't notice the new notebook I am labeling, "Doorstep Repartee." DOORSTEP repartee is the term used to refer to that clever remark you would have made, had you only thought of it before you reached your own doorstep. It really is a shame to waste such witty sayings, so I write them down, in the hope that maybe sometime I'll get a chance to say them to someone. Later, I may combine this book with "Conversation Scrapbook." It contains scraps of brilliant conversation that I hear, picturesque expressions, suggestions and instructions for improving conversation. I AM going to purchase all of the M. 1. A. Scrapbooks: "The Honey Comb," "My Story," "Treasures of Truth" and "Book of Remembrance." "The Honey Comb" has been introduced since I was a Bee-Hive Girl, and I have been kept busy teaching Bee-Hive Girls ever since, so I missed those other delightful experiences. I should like to buy each class manual. Too, every year; they'd make an inspirational library. I LIKE my "Success Book'' best of all. It tells how I was detained in the fourth grade because I couldn't write a simple composition. Then it tells how I learned to write and now it is my most interesting pastime. It tells how I changed my unreadable penmanship overnight when I was a sophomore in high school. It describes my miserable failure at public speaking, and the way it kept haunting me so I dared not try again. Then I overcame my fear of that incident and made a good speech. 435 Which brings me to my latest, "Speech Scrapbook." It is a collection of controlling ideas for speeches. Besides ideas for 45 talks, I have jotted down all I remember from reading and observing in reference to preparing and giving a speech. It also includes a collection of mottoes of people I know, and each motto could form the nucleus of a speech. These are a few of them: "If you can't win, make the one ahead break the record." "Rise above it." "Don't be a Scrub!" "I you think you can, you can." "I want friends, friends, and more friends." As part of this collection I have listed all of the M. I. A. Slogans. OF course I have a Snapshot Album. Other Scrap Books have supplements in the form of booklets on the same subjects. For instance, along with my Recipe Scrap Books, come my High School Cooking Book, and Free Recipe Booklets offered by advertisers of Food Products. I have a "Menu Book." In this I plan my own meals as well as paste menus I clip from various sources. "My Schedules and Plans Scrap Book" contains schedules for work suggested in different magazines. I have also worked out several schedules of my own. When I think of a plan I record it here; sometimes I am appalled at the contrast between a plan and the results. Sometimes I am thrilled at the overwhelming success that comes through planning. GAMES and Parties" is a Scrap Book in which I describe successful parties and games. I have a number of booklets to supplement this Scrap Book. ONE would think my hobby is Scrap Books, but pasting and writing are mere elements of my real 436 hobby: "Personality Building." My "Personality Scrap Book" has a collection of personality tests, and clippings and thoughts on personality. To accompany these are a number of booklets and envelopes containing articles on beauty, charm and personality. Mest of my Scrap Books are a means to develop my own RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE personality. But I have one that I keep to help me understand the personalities of others. In it I describe the personality of almost every one I meet. I can feel my skill in analyzing people grow through this method. A companion book to it is a list of the hobbies of people I know. It is one of the ways to understand ''People," the most engrossing subject in the world. TO THE SEA By Bryce W. Anderson Great foster-mother of wandering sailor men And silent arbiter of destiny, Against whose trembling breasts, in passion free, Beat the bold winds again and yet again, Until they creep away in shame, and then, To still their aching memories of thee Go blustering over mountain, glade and lea, And shout wild triumphs at each peaceful glen: Thine is the power timeless, thine the hold Unshaken by the centuries, and yet, When in thy storm-filled night thou come to grips With that eternity from whose forgotten mould Thy shape was wrought, can you, O Sea, forget The stark ghosts of a thousand ages ships?