Nauvoo Exodus By Bernice Phillips Gibbs PROLOGUE A people driven forth, A prophet slain, No refuge but bare earth, Mid sleet and rain; Numbed, shivering and wet, They gather here? No refuge but the earth, - No other bier. Ah, homes were happy and bright and warm, Where mothers sang lullabys sweet, And children played happily, fearing no harm i Or rushed forth their playmates to greet. Nauvoo, the beautiful, peaceful and calm, A refuge built here by a stream, Where all might worship their God as they please, And all might share in the dream Of a perfect life, a brotherhood of Man, A faith that points the way as naught else can. But hark! A muttering seems to chill the air, Like storms that passed before in recent days; A premonition there, The hand of stark fear o'er their hearts it lays. But faith shines like a star in human hearts, How ever dark the clouds we know tis there, Waiting to shine again when mists will part, To greet the warming sun so bright and fair. Casting shadows How ever loud the thunder, dense the rain, The star of faith still brings forth hope again. Once more all seems to be serene. "Ah, we have worked so hard to build This place, dear Lord; to plant and keep it green, And industry has kept our days all filled With love and faith and praise to Thee. Suffer us yet to stay a little while, Safe from our enemies; must we not flee To other distant climes? Not anger rile Against Thy people. Find peace, And cause the anger of our enemies to cease." Lord let not anger rile. Against Thy people. Let us here find peace. And cause anger of our enemies to cease. But storm clouds gather, dark and dim, And anger of their enemies pours forth. Their only fault their faith, their only sin, Their loyalty to leaders of that faith. None dare defend the Mormons now! "Go, cast them from our midst!" they cry, "Such evil faith far from us we must throw. These Mormons must go hence! Joe Smith must die!" They clasped their loved ones close and shook with fear, While angry mobs collected far and near. To save his people Joseph gave his life 430 Into their hands. Carthage jail They took him, and mid insults rife His calmness could not shake nor courage quail. Mob spirit ruled supreme and conquering. All mercy, led his vengeful murderers To spill his blood and Hyrum's, o'er the floor, From which it ne'er can be erased, eternal stain! He freely gave his life, unselfishly; His noble act will live eternally! "Arise and flee! There is no mercy here! The fiends of Hell have loosed their bloody strife, Up and away! It matters not to where. Not satisfied with our dear Prophet's life They wreak their vengeance on the helpless, No pity for the weak?death to the strong Who dare defend their homes. Fearless Are traitors, and to outcasts must belong!" And sadly leaving their fair homes forever, They haste to cross the Mississippi river. Some few have wagons and in these A few of their possessions have been cast While others carry bundles on their backs And shield their children from the wintry blast. A hasty camp is made some miles away At Sugar creek, and. Mid the sleet and rain, The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Before the breaking of another day Nine little ones are born in fear and pain. But God is ever watching o'er his sheep And every one of these He safe will keep! And thus amid the winter's cold and snow Began the long trek to the savage west. The sturdy men already hardships know, But delicate women, babies at their breast, wt Must face this frontier country ill prepared, Must weep into each new-made grave, And turn their faces from the clods that cover The golden curls, the still, pale hands?and leave,: Driven by human fiends into the wilderness, What more to fear from savages than this? LENVOI I thank Thee, God, I came from such as these! Fruits of their vision borne on every breeze, Their courage and their faith my heritage. Their eyes were greeted by but dust and sage, But, this the place, supreme in faith they chose To make the desert blossom as the rose. Honored throughout the ages be their name? I thank Thee, God, from such as these I came!