7 Editorials Freedom N the far-distant past a momentous question was settled in the Council in Heaven when Lucifer's plan of compulsion was rejected and Christ's plan of free agency was accepted. Since that time the impulse for freedom has been in men everywhere, although at times it has slumbered or been buried so deep that people did not realize it was there until it burst forth into new flame. AMERICA, according to the Book of Mormon Prophets, was to be a land of promise where the inhabitants were to enjoy liberty as long as they served God and kept His commandments. They promised that this land should never be brought into captivity unless iniquity should abound, in which case the land should be cursed to the wrong doers, but to the righteous it should be blessed forever. The Prophet Lehi promised that if the inhabitants kept the commandments they should be blessed, none should molest them, and they should dwell safely forever. He admonished, "If the day shall come that they will reject the Holy One of Israel, the true Messiah, their Redeemer and their God, behold, the judgments of him that is just shall rest upon them. Yea, he will bring other nations unto them, and he will give unto them power, and he will take away from them the lands of their possessions, and he will cause them to be scattered and smitten." I due time this land, which was to be kept for people who would worship God, was discovered by Columbus. After many years freedom hungry colonists settled in the land. Then because they felt that freedom such as they longed for and that in justice they should have was denied them, the Revolutionary War was fought. After its triumphant close a new nation was born having an idea of individual freedom and of individual development such as no government had ever before enunciated or fostered. It is significant to note that this Constitution was formulated by men 460 who believed in the necessity of God's inspiration and direction. Benjamin Franklin urged, after they had met for some time and had been unsuccessful in arriving at satisfactory results, that a chaplain be appointed to meet with them and supplicate the Creator. He thought it was strange that while they had sensed the necessity of Divine help in the contest with Great Britain and had held prayers daily, prayers that had been heard and graciously answered, that in seeking to form a new government, they had either forgotten. Their "Powerful Friend" or had felt that they no longer needed His assistance. He said, "I have lived, sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth: That God governs in the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without His notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without His aid? 'We have been assured, sir, in the sacred writings, that "except the Lord build the House they labour in vain that build it.' I firmly believe this; and I also believe that without His concurring aid we shall succeed in this political building no better than the builders of Babel. We shall be divided by our little partial local interests; our projects will be confounded, and we ourselves shall become a reproach and by-word down to future ages. And what is worse, mankind may hereafter from this unfortunate instance, despair of establishing governments by human wisdom and leave it to chance, war, and conquest." So under divine guidance the Constitution was formulated beginning with, "We the People of the United States, in order to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America." While the Declaration of Independence was signed on July 4, 1776, it was not until July 8th that the Liberty Bell proclaimed to all the world that a new republic had been born. The colossal Statue of Liberty standing in New York harbor proclaims to all immigrants coming from foreign shores that this is a land where liberty reigns and that its light shall enlighten the world.
IN this country where the greatest good to the greatest number was to be the ideal, the people have taken liberty for granted and perhaps have not duly valued it. Now when half of Europe has abandoned even any semblance of democracy, they may have had and are seeking stability in leaving the power and responsibility on the shoulders of a few men, when dictators are flourishing, the people of this land of liberty should be conscious of the advantages and pricelessness of freedom. They should study its history and see what it has brought to them.
ALL too few realize how marvelous are the opportunities and benefits derived from living in this land of the free. Rose Wilder Lane in the Saturday Evening Post says: "Individualism has given America the highest standard of living in the world. Today America, and only America, offers every child free schooling to the gates of college. Only America has a free public-library system, with an extension service to villages and farms. Only America has free radio programs and unlicensed, untaxed radios. Common men elsewhere would hardly expect to own a radio. Except the British Empire, only America has an uncensored press."
JAMES TRUSLOW ADAMS, in his book, The Epic of America, points out that this country's distinctive and unique gift to mankind is the "American dream," a dream that foresees in America a land where life shall be "better and richer and fuller for every man," where each shall be privileged to develop his gifts and achieve according to his ability, "a dream of a social order in which each man and each woman shall be able to attain to the fullest stature of which they are innately capable." The dream not of material wealth but of opportunity to develop to one's highest capacity, has drawn millions from the old world, and the dream has been realized more fully in America than elsewhere. We have boasted of our wealth, of our prestige, of our power. Thinkers now realize that we should put emphasis of thought upon the true values of life. Important as mechanical and physical things are, and although they do add to the comfort and happiness of life, yet there are spiritual values which have been neglected and which should now be brought to the fore. So the big question today is, "What is a better and richer life for all men?" If the American dream is to come true and to abide with us, it will at bottom, depend on the people themselves. If we are to achieve a richer and fuller life for all, they have got to know what such an achievement implies."
President Calvin Coolidge truly said, "To live under the Constitution is the greatest political privilege that was ever accorded to the human race." We, privileged to live under this great magna charta, must realize that liberty does not mean license, it means responsibility. We should honor and sustain the law and those placed over us.