Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon AUGUST How sweet to know that some of life's joys are free for all?blue skies, melody of soft winds and running streams and shade of lovely trees. A good book is a good companion during the long summer days, and it is the true philosopher who accepts whatever the hour brings and finds content therein. FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT is one author, it is said, who never had a manuscript rejected. She published 50 books. KATHERINE BREGY, essayist and poet has published a new book, 'From Dante to Jeanne D' Arc." These essays represent adventures in medieval life and letters. While maintaining the Catholic viewpoint her interpretive artistry and insight is most attractive. CORNELIA LIND MEIGS has been awarded the Newbery medal for her "Invincible Louisa," the story of the life of Louisa M. Alcott. The book is claimed as the most distinguished juvenile book of the year. VALENE CORLISS' newest novel, "Let Us Be Faithful," will appear this fall. The book was first announced under the title, "From This Day Forward," but by a strange coincidence Ruby M. Ayers had selected that title for her new novel. HELEN MACKNIGHT DOYLE'S autobiography, "A Child Went Forth," is a charmingly told story of pioneer life leading to a humane work in the medical profession. MARGERY SHARP, an English novelist, has received fine praise from the critics for her latest book, "The Flowering Thorn." Hugh Walpole calls it "delightful reading" and predicts the author is likely to become one of the most important humorists of the day. WOMEN lawyers of Kansas City denied membership in the Bar Association have organized a Bar Association of their own with a membership of 30. It will be interesting to see if the national association will refuse membership. EMMA STEBBINS, sculptor in 1867, carved in Italian marble an heroic statue of Columbus. Last month 67 years after this statue was found unpacked in a storage yard in Central Park, New York. The Park Department are now planning to clean it and place it in Columbus square. MADAME SCHUMANN HEINK, in her radio talks for baby food, says, "According to the doctors I was very wrong, but I always sung and rocked my babies to sleep." Blessed babies, to have had such glorious lullabys. QUEEN ASTRID, of Belgium, has another son. The boy is named Albert for his illustrious grandfather. He has been given the title, Prince Albert of Liege, a title dormant since 1789. MME. MARIE CURIE, co-discoverer of radium, died July 4, at Salanches, France. Twice Nobel prize winner, for her scientific research, Mme. Curie maintained an even modest way in life. The medical world say, she saved 50,000 lives during the World War through her discovery of radium and countless thousands of cancer sufferers have received relief and cure through radium treatment. She was indeed a world wide benefactor.