
JANUARY, 1943 VOL. 30 NO. 1 LESSONS FOR APRIL
RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Personal Souvenirs MAKE APPROPRIATE GIFTS Gift Cards Included When Requested
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE PLATE
This pottery plate, 10 1/2 inches in diameter, depicts the first Relief Society meeting held in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. Brown is the predominating color of the design on this beautiful ivory plate, with costumes in a variety of colors. The plate is bordered with gold-colored wheat heads. The inscription on the back gives information as to the organization, scope, and purposes of Relief Society.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN
No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated. Price $1.10, postpaid.
No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front gold filled. With 24 carat gold-plated back. Price $1.80, postpaid.
Both pins are identical as to design, size, and coloring. Although issued as a feature of the centennial year, this pin bears only the organization date, 1842, and will therefore be appropriate for use after the centennial.
These prices include Federal excise tax.
OUR LEGACY
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL ANTHOLOGY OF VERSE
This 329-page book contains poems selected from the writings of Latter-day Saint women from 1835 to 1942. Including all the prize poems designated in the annual Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem contest. The relatives of those whose poems are included in this anthology will be especially interested.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
A CENTENARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY
A panorama of Relief Society's first hundred years in picture and story, containing much material heretofore unpublished.: Bound in a blue paper book cover, with its title ""A Centenary of Relief Society'' and the centennial insignia beautifully embossed in gold. 96 pages, size 9x12 inches. Over 500 pictures of historical interest. The price of the book has been kept as low as possible50 cents per copy. Postpaid whether single copies or quantity lots are ordered. Orders cannot be accepted without the remittance of 50 cents per copy. A special gift card will be sent with all copies of the book designated as gifts. Order from your ward Relief Society Magazine representative or direct from the General Board.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman President
Marcia K. Howells First Counselor
Belle S. Spafford Second Counselor
Vera W. Pohlman Secretary-Treasurer
Donna D. Sorensen
Anna S. Barlow
Anna B. Hart
Alice B. Castleton
Vivian R. McConkie
Achsa E. Paxman
Gertrude R. Garff
Priscilla L. Evans
Leda T. Jensen
Mary G. Judd
Leona F. Wintch
Florence J. Madsen
Rae B. Barker
Luella N. Adams
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
Nellie O. Parker
Marianne C. Sharp
Pauline T. Pingree
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford
Acting Business Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. 30. JANUARY, 1943 'No. 1
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES
Snowflakes Ruth H. Chadwick Back of Frontispiece
Messages for the New Year Relief Society General Board Members
Award Winners Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest
Award Winners Annual Short Story Contest 16
Little Stones that Change the Course of Rivers Lella M. Hoggan 27
Woman's Sphere Romona W. Cannon 34
Point Rationing Justin C. Stewart 46
FICTION
All That Glitters First Prize Short Story Contest Norma Wrathall 17
Justice is a Group Affair Eva Willes Wangsgaard 29
GENERAL FEATURES
Editorial:
A New Heart and a New Spirit Marianne C. Sharp 35
Notes To The Field:
Leaflets on Health, Nursing, etc 36
Petitions on Informative Labeling 38
Suggestive Program for March 7, 1943 38
"Leads For Class Leaders'' Delayed 42
Elder Stephen L Richards' Lectures 42
Message of First Presidency 43
New Book''Recreation in the Home'' 43
Mormon Handicraft Shop 44
Auxiliaries Protest Smoking 44
Notes From the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 48
LESSONS
Theology and Testimony Book of Mormon 97
Visiting Teachers' Care of the Body as an Expression of Faith 60
Work-and-Business Clean Things Last Longer 61
Literature Great Bible Personalities 64
Social Science Growth of Political Parties 69
General Presidents Louise Y. Robison 72
POETRY
Snowflakes Ruth H. Chadwick Back of Frontispiece
Your Heritage First Prize, Poem Contest Dott J. Sartori 12
While the Earth Turns Second Prize, Poem Contest Beatrice K. Ekman 13
Symphony of the Snow Third Prize, Poem Contest Fletcher 14
Beyond This Night Linnie Fisher Robinson
This Night
Mabel Jones Gabbott 76
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917,, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION 57,000
Winter Scene -. N Psychological Warfare Frontispiece Mark K. Allen 23 Snowflakes Ruth H. Chadwick Swirling and dancing, gossamer wings, Tangible fairies garnish the earth. Shimmering white, they wrap round her breast "Festoons of pearls, add trimmings of worth. Lace so exquisite scallops her gown; Sparklets and plumes embellish her crown. vot.30, No.1 VE AG ATINE JANUARY 1943 y Messages for the New Year From Members of the Relief Society General Board IT has been said that nobody worries about Christ and His teachings so long as they are kept shut up in the churches, but that there is always trouble and perplexity if you try to bring them out. As the new year is ushered in and the second century of Relief Society begins, let us as members of this great humanitarian organization resolve to do our part in bringing forward the teachings of the Master, in applying them in our lives, and in advocating them to our fellow men, thus contributing to the establishment of the kingdom of God on earth. President Amy Brown Lyman 66TN Thee, O Lord, do I put my trust;" (Psalm 31:1). Shall we now, as daughters of our Heavenly Father, rededicate our lives to His work? Nothing we do in His service can be too well or too beautifully done. His spirit, as our constant companion, is our greatest need. It is a privilege to work in His vineyard in any capacity. We were given the Relief Society organization by a prophet of God. Activity in this Church auxiliary helps us to go forward with gratitude in our hearts for our privileges and blessings. May salvation and eternal life crown our earnest efforts. Counselor Marcia K. Howells [ is a great blessing to face life with a testimony of the truthfulness of the Gospelto know that God lives, that life has purpose and direction, and that the relationships of friends and loved ones will continue beyond this life. The work of Relief Society strengthens testimonies and provides abundant opportunity for the application of Gospel principles. Fortunate, Page 5 6 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 indeed, are women who are identified with this Society, either as members or as officers. May the experiences of the new year deepen our insight, increase our understanding, and add to our desire to serve our Father and our fellow men. Counselor Belle S. Spafford
LASTING world peace can be established only through the brotherhood of man, a state of fellow feeling which harbors neither national nor racial prejudices. Relief Society is making its contribution toward this goal. This sisterhood includes women who are of the black, brown, yellow, red, and white races, and citizens of more than a score of nations. Yet each of these is "sister" to all other members of the Society, and all are striving to better understand and live according to the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christthe sure path to individual and universal peace. General Secretary-Treasurer Vera W. Pohlman
WITH almost global war, every member of most families is feeling the impact. Restlessness, adapting to new work, adjusting to a loved one's absence, restricted movements, insecurity, all play their part in intensifying the role that the home needs to play. Changing conditions bring different opportunities to women. The woman of faith and sweet spirit can make her home a haven of comfort in times of trouble. The family prayers, the spoken acceptance of our Heavenly Father as the guardian of all, the understanding heart, the love transformed into servicethe memories of these will fortify our families in the battle for present-day existence. Donna D. Sorensen
I DESIRE an abiding faith in the Lord, sufficient to sustain and succor me. What I yearn for, I wish for you. The new year, 1943, will be a year fraught with anxieties, but those who trust in the Lord will be assuaged. Present events help us realize how dependent we are upon Him. Pause and think deeply and have hope and vision for your needs. Faith and vision become strong and clear, and sustain those who keep the commandments of the Lord. "They who have faith in Him will cleave unto every good thing." May you have peace surpassing understanding, is my earnest desire. Vivian R. McConkie
RELIEF SOCIETY is beginning a new year in a new century with the world perilously threatened by the holocaust of evil forces. When we see the human misery and the destruction which follow in the wake of these forces, it makes us feel the preciousness of good; of God's great laws for living together in love. It makes us appreciate our heritagea sustaining peace and the opportunity for organized work in the cause of human uplift. Let us rededicate ourselves to the noble purposes of Relief Society and help bring to the world a charity which is the true love of Christ. Nellie O. Parker
MESSAGES FOR THE NEW YEAR 7
"MAN is at his finest toward the finish of the year; He is almost what he should be, when the Christmas season's here; He is less a selfish creature than at any other time; When the Christmas spirit rules him, he comes close to the sublime." Our faith strikes the proper balance between the material and the spiritual forces of life. You have exemplified this thought through your belief in religious principles combined with the doing of noble service. May 1943 bring joys that will remain long in your memory, and may high achievement reward your efforts throughout the new year. Achsa E. Paxman
TO my sisters of the Relief Societyparticularly those who, like myself, have sons in the armed forces of our countryI send this message: Be of good cheer. Your Heavenly Father loves you and will be mindful of you. Mary Grant Judd
GREETINGS and best wishes to you noble Relief Society womenyou who will be quietly and faithfully performing the tasks that each day of the new year brings. In these days of confusion and trouble, you Latter-day Saint women are blessed above all others in the world. You have an anchor in your knowledge and testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Hold fast to this precious anchor and you will continue to be sustained and blessed by your Heavenly Father. Luella N. Adams
THIS is a day of sorrow upon the earth. As Latter-day Saints, however, we know that we are privileged to be permitted to live during this great Dispensation of the Fullness of Times. We realize that the righteous must suffer with the wicked, but that "Those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them." At this Christmastide let us, as Relief Society members, fill our souls with love for Him who was "a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief." Let us rejoice "because he hath poured out his soul unto death" whereby we may all partake of a glorious resurrection. Marianne C. Sharp
"GLORY to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men". 8 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
The most soul-satisfying experiences we have in life, especially during these troubled times, are the efforts we make to live the Gospel of Jesus Christ. May this season of His birth bring to each member of Relief Society in all the world a strong and abiding testimony of the mission of our Savior, so that no matter what vicissitudes of life touch us from the outside, within we may have that peace which comes from good will toward men. Leda T. Jensen
AT the beginning of another year, in a new century for Relief Society, I pray earnestly for Latter-day Saint women everywhere that by the power of the Holy Spirit each may see her course clearly; that each shall do her work with wisdom and in kindness; that each shall be strong and unafraid, preparing herself through faith and knowledge to meet every day in the new year and every situation ahead with serenity and peace of soul. "For they that have received the truth... And have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived... Shall abide the day." (Doctrine and Covenants 45:57) Rae B. Barker
"THESE things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace." In these days of world-wide distress, how grateful we should be for the Gospel of Jesus Christ and for our testimonies of its truthfulness. The mission of the Savior was one of peace and love, and it is through the application of His teachings in our lives that we can meet the problems of this day with courage. Christ's message is expressed in the spirit and character of Relief Society. To be identified with this organization is a blessing. Let us help to further this great cause, "that in Him we may have peace." Anna S. Barlow
THIS is the birth of a new year and of a new Relief Society century! The stress of the present stirs us to super accomplishment. The achievement of the past has made us feel our powers. The prophetic urge for organization a century ago is a hundredfold today. May we look forward with the enthusiasm and dreams of youth, but with vision. May we face the new century as we face a new day. May our lives radiate fortitude and inner peace, that we may help bring universal love to the world. This is the birth of a new century for Relief Society. What a challenge to us! Anna Boss Hart
MESSAGES FOR THE NEW YEAR 9
"BLESSED is he that is faithful in tribulation, the reward of the same is greater in the kingdom of heaven. For after much tribulation come the blessings." Let us as Relief Society members be comforted by these words of our Lord. For even though the past year has literally been a year of tribulation, we as Latter-day Saints have a great many blessings for which to be thankful. May we enter this new year with hope in our hearts and a prayer on our lips that we may so live as to be worthy of the blessings promised to the faithful. Gertrude R. Garff
EVEN though Relief Society women have been heavily burdened by thick, dark forces, they have not lost their way. They dream dreams and see the vision of a new morning, and a spring come again; their faith is ever fresh. Not necessarily the great or the strong, but the seemingly unimportant women among us are spreading blessings, making small things worthy of eternal remembrance. Theirs is a healing virtue in toil and trouble. Truly their outlook is wider and deeper than the number of years lived or the accumulation of encumbering goods. May our Heavenly Father continue to bless the daughters of Zion. Leona F. Wintch
TO all of my Relief Society sisters I send greetings, and hope the new year will bring all that your hearts desire in righteousness. Edith Smith Elliott
AT the beginning of another century of Relief Society, I desire to express my love and appreciation to all the wonderful women who have served so loyally in this organization. May you continue to feel that it is a privilege to live, to work, to sacrifice, to endure, to love; and may you realize that you are instruments in God's kingdom in helping to work out His purposes among men. If you continue faithful, the peace of God which passeth all understanding will be yours; moreover, each of you will be capable of making the circle in which you live better and happier. Pauline T. Pingree
AT the beginning of this new year our love and prayers go out to our 115,000 Relief Society members. May God's choicest blessings attend you during the coming year and always. 10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
Whatever the future holds, may you be true to the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, and may you have the courage, fortitude, and determination to live righteously. By being members of the Church, you are heirs to a precious heritage, and by keeping the commandments of God and conforming to the Gospel teachings and by consecrating your lives to the work of the Lord, you are entitled to life eternal, the Divine gift to mankind. Alice B. Castleton
MY wish for you, my dear sisters, is that the Christmas just passed will be remembered as a happy one and that blessings may attend you in the new year. To those homes saddened by the loss of loved ones, may our Heavenly Father send comfort and consolation; to firesides where parents, wives, or other beloved ones are bravely carrying on with anxiety in their hearts, may He send patience and faith; and to homes blessed with the laughter of happy children may He send His spirit to protect the household and to guide those who there reside, that loyalty and courage and kindness may reign therein. Priscilla L. Evans
"TAKE from out the Old Year only the experiences and achievements that will enrich and make for a better New Year." A hundred years of valuable experiences have contributed to the dynamic strength and power of our great Relief Society organization. As the new year approaches, let us greet every day with unfaltering step, with a prayer in our hearts and a song on our lips, with courage and with faith in the fulfillment of the Divine promise that: "If with all your hearts ye truly seek me, ye shall ever surely find me. Thus saith our God." Florence Jepperson Madsen
I SEND my love and new year's greetings to the members of Relief Society. For many months we have lived in the midst of a world at war, and of necessity we have had to readjust our lives to varied and changing conditions. More than ever before, I believe, we should exert every effort to live our religion and keep the commandments of the Lord. If we do this, we will merit His protection and blessings, and then, whatever the future may hold for us, it will be according to His will. My prayers and good wishes are for your welfare and happiness. Ann P. Nibley
Award Winners Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest
THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three prize winners in the 1942 Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the August 1942 issue of the Magazine and closed October 15, 1942. The first prize of $15 is awarded to Dott J. Sartori, 3388 So. 9th East, Salt Lake City, for her poem "Your Heritage." The second prize of $10 is awarded to Beatrice K. Ekman, 287 Eighth Ave., Salt Lake City, for her poem "While the Earth Turns." The third prize of $5 is awarded to Linda S. Fletcher, Apt. 320 - 20th So. York Street, Denver, Colo., for her poem "Symphony of the Snow." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1923 in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society and a very gifted poet. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetic verse. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were 63 poems submitted in this year's contest. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest and the general excellence of work submitted. The Board sincerely thanks the three judges for their valuable assistance in selecting the prize-winning poems. The contribution of the General Board's poem committee is also greatly appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs of two of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith. The photograph of Linda S. Fletcher, winner of third prize, was unavailable.
Page 11
Prize-Winning Poems Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest
DOTT J. SARTORI BEATRICE KNOWLTON EKMAN
Your Heritage Dott J. Sartori First Prize
Here is a heritage, my new-born son: You have the blood of heroes in your veins. A thousand thousand threads of lives, once lived, Are passed and plaited into living skeins That merge through all the centuries in you. Your father's fire, his father's high unrest Crimson your arterial stream and gauge Your vision, set your span and depth of chest. And all the giants, ax in hand, who swung Down purple aisles of forest, all the brave Who pitted wit and brawn against their foes, Who loved and courted and conceived and gave Life out of life, have stored their powers in you.
Page 12
Through unrecorded eras, dark and still, Remember, the stout of spirit, conquerors Of life and love shall fabricate your will. Perhaps a valiant Joshua will blow His mighty trumpets in your soul, my son, Or Moses speak in your integrity, Or Joseph's and your purity be one. Some faithful heart that knew the miracle At the parting of the Jordan, beats in yours. In your foot sandaled ancestors will stand Once more against the old conspirators.
While the Earth Turns Beatrice Knowlton Ekman Second Prize
I The canyon's clefted walls are torched with flame Of maplescarlet vying sumach-red; The yellowed cottonwoods and alders frame The creek and swale. In silence overhead Swift-moving banks of gray mingle with mist That veils the hills with mauve and amethyst. The quaking aspens hold their branches high And tinkle castanets in lullaby. The scarlet and the yellow leaves will fall To rust beneath the drip of slanting rain, While hill-pines to the soughing ridge-pines call. To seek the sheltering evergreens again, Furred creatures under bare, bleak trees will go, Their footprints etched in moonlight on the snow.
II The dirt road rims the mountainside; The creek makes murmurings below Where over rocks, cool waters glide Tumbling in white and crystal flow. The skies are cupped in sober gray On kneeling hills of camel-brown
PRIZE-WINNING POEMS 13
14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
And on blue summits far away Winter has laid white sandals down. After the night of cleansing rain The mountain trees stand still and stark, The old trails beckoning in vain Up through the groves of silver bark. With somberness of earth and sky November days are set apart I hear a late bird's lonely cry And grief unbidden stirs my heart.
III The fields we loved to wander through Have faded to a graver hue, And where we watched the barley blow Red pheasants glean the stubble row. Unfettered from the sloping hill, Where painted trees their crimson spill, The tumbleweeds come marshaling down The hillside road that runs to town. Through long uncharted lanes of sky Wild geese in patterned wedges fly, And wheeling earth brings darkbrings dawn Only my heart knows you are gone.
Symphony of the Snow Linda S. Fletcher Third Prize
Allegro Artists' hands have opened up, And floating from them down to earth Comes Pavlova, with her ballet, In a dainty dance of mirth. Swirling, whirling on tiptoe, Silent as the stars' chorale, Sylphs glide on, to strains unheard The melody of gay snowfall.
Allegretto On they pass; the tempo now Changes, while Cellinis trim The setmold ghostly Spring On trees. A-down waft seraphim With jeweled coverlet to veil A man-scarred world from scrutiny Of Heaven's facethus hide, awhile A desolating agony.
Andante For a brief moment earth again Knows Edeninnocence and peace; The heaped-up mounds consigned to dust Are covered o'er; the clangors cease. In the white sky an unseen host Joins in a requiem sublime To mark the groaning world's travail On the Eternal's tome of time.
Coda Earth soon will know the end of woe, When clad in amaranthine bloom, Her purity like to the snow, She ne'er again will hold a tomb!
EXCERPT FROM "HOW CLIMATE MAKES THE MAN"
"...People in the tropics seldom wear out or break down; they die largely from infectious and parasitic diseases. "In temperate coolness it is a breakdown in our combustion machinery which is bringing greatest worry to the medical profession. This involves particularly the heart and blood vessels, since on them falls the direct load of transporting food and oxygen to the body tissues and of removing the waste products and useless heat. Heart failure is predominantly a problem of cool climates. "Energetic Northerners thus should regard stress of life as a major danger and health hazard, especially after passing the forty-year mark. They should be careful about increasing the stress upon body machinery by lack of proper sleep and relaxation or through the use of caffeine which makes every tissue in the body work harder. I personally feel that overuse of this drug (the active principle of coffee, tea, and cola beverages) is today doing more damage among the active Americans of middle temperate latitudes than any other single factor in life. Over-use of tobacco probably runs a close second."
From a General Electric "Science Forum" Program, reprinted from Science Digest.
PRIZE-WINNING POEMS 15
Award Winners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest
THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the award winners in the short story contest which was announced in the August 1942 issue of The Relief Society Magazine and which closed November 15, 1942. The first prize of $25 is awarded to Norma Wrathall, Grantsville, Utah, for her story "All That Glitters." The second prize of $20 is awarded to Blanche Kendall McKey, 2821 Porter Ave., Ogden, Utah, for her story "Silent Strings." The third prize of $15 is awarded to Mary Ek Knowles, 1025 Darling St., Ogden, Utah, for her story "The Gold Watch." This short story contest, first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1941 as a feature of the centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942 inasmuch as the centennial short story contest had been so enthusiastically received and inasmuch as sponsorship of story writing is of equal importance to that of poetry writing in which the Board conducts a contest annually. The contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by the editor of a publication of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories are to be published consecutively in the first three issues of the Magazine for 1943. Prize-winning stories become the property of the General Board and may not be published by others except by written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the regular Magazine rate at the time of
Page 16
publication. A writer who has received first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Twenty-one manuscripts were submitted in the contest for 1942. While some of these failed to qualify as short stories, being sketches rather than short stories, and while others showed a lack of consistency between incidents related in the story and the time and setting of the story, all work entered in the contest revealed writing ability. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants and expresses appreciation to all whose work was entered in the contest. The number of manuscripts and the type of work submitted during the first two years of the short story contest are very encouraging and indicate that, like the Eliza R. Snow poem contest, the short story contest will become one of the important activities sponsored by the General Board, and through this activity high quality fiction-writing among Latter-day Saint women will be stimulated. The General Board sincerely thanks the five judges for their careful consideration of the stories and for the excellence of their judgment in selecting the prize winners. The services of the General Board's short story contest committee are also greatly appreciated. Stories, together with photographs of the award-winning contestants, will appear in the Relief Society Magazine as follows: January, 1943, "All That Glitters," by Norma Wrathall; February 1943, "Silent Strings," by Blanche Kendall McKey; March 1943, "The Gold Watch," by Mary Ek Knowles.
All That Glitters Norma Wrathall First Prize Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest
"WANTED: At once. Women between ages 18 and 40 to work in war plant cafeteria. Wages, $80 per month. Transportation and one meal furnished. Apply at..." The newspaper slid from Emily Merrill's hand: "Wanted... $80 per month...." Her eyes sought out the worn linoleum, the scuffed chairs, the kitchen curtains, which in spite of frequent laundering refused to stay crisp. She looked down at her thin red hands, idle for once in her lap. How long had it been since she had had money to buy anything she really wanted? Somehow it had taken all they could scrape from the farm to meet expenses and make payments on the mortgage. She sighed. Of course, Jack was working at the plant himself, but he said that every cent they didn't have to use on absolute necessities must go on the debt, now was his chance to "get out from under" as he put it. Well, all the more reason she should earn a little. She folded the ad page and put it carefully in the cupboard drawer. Why it was wonderful, that's what it was; it was her golden opportunity. She hummed a tune as she prepared the evening meal. By the time the family was assembled around the supper table, a definite plan had taken form in her mind, but she waited until Jack had finished eating before she said anything. "Never try to convince a man whose stomach is empty," her grand-
NORMA WRATHALL
mother had always said. Besides, Jack always read the paper at the meal table. At last he finished his dessert and put down the paper. Emily drew a deep breath, pushed her hair back of her ears, and began. "I don't like it," Jack pronounced emphatically, as she paused for another breath. "I don't want my wife running around in any workman's cafeteria, waiting on a lot of foreigners and...." Emily was prepared for opposition, but before she could say anything more, sixteen-year-old Etta inter-
17
Page 17
18
rupted: "Don't be so old-fashioned, Dad. All the women are working nowadays. A woman's place isn't just in the home any more, you know." He drew his brows together at her condescending tone. This red-headed daughter of his certainly needed her come-uppance for a change. Emily rose hastily to pour oil on the troubled waters. How alike they were, ready to flare at the drop of a match, her sandy-haired husband with his threatening brows, and the girl with her head on one side, staring back at him from under impudently lowered eyelids. "Of course, Etta, a mother's first duty is to her family," Emily said quietly, "but I'm sure I can manage home and job too, right now; the twins are getting older, and you can help with the housework." She was a quiet-mannered woman, with dark hair and soft brown eyes which belied the inner strength her husband had been heard to call stubbornness. By the time she had finished packing his lunch box, with Etta safely out of the way on an errand at the drug store, she had won his consent to her plan. The children were in school all day, and by carefully planning her work, she thought she could manage it. She would arrange for the nine-year-old twins, Billy and Betty, to stay after school with Great-aunt Bessie, a childless widow who had always been fond of them. And Etta could take care of herself, and do a good share of the housework. Emily's agile mind swept on to the systematic planning of her day's work: the breakfast to be cooked early, and served to the children later by Etta; the lunches for the entire
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
family to be prepared the night before; a hot, cooked dinner in the evening after she came home from work. She could do the washing and ironing and clean the house on her day off. Really, it all seemed so simple. Even Aunt Bessie's lack of enthusiasm failed to dampen her spirits. "It would be different if you had to work, Emily," Aunt Bessie said. "If that were the case, I'd move right in and help you, if necessary. But I should think that with Jack working.... Well," she sighed, "all I hope is that I don't have one of my headaches on the days the children are here." She shook her head dolefully and went on, as Emily thought, "making mountains from molehills."
EMILY would never forget the day she brought home her first pay check. She sat down and kicked off her shoes to ease her burning feet while she tore open the envelope. Let's seenew linoleum should be the first thing to buy, and some crisp new curtains. And she did want to make a down payment on bed divan for the living room. That old couch was such an eyesore. Her pleasant reverie was broken as the screen door banged, and the twins came bouncing into the room. "Hi there, mom," cried Billy, "Isn't supper ready yet? Gee whiz, am I starved!" Billy was always hungry. He grabbed a piece of baker's bread from the box and stuffed it into his mouth. "Not so much slang, dear. Yes, I'll have it ready in a few minutes." Little needles shot up the backs of her legs as she bent her energy to the task. Goodness, it was getting late. "Say, mom," called Betty from the bathroom, where she was washing her hands, "Aunt Bessie said to tell
ALL THAT GLITTERS
you, of course we're welcome to stay there, but Billy'd have to do better. Know what he did?" She pointed an accusing soapy finger. "He put two toads in Aunt Bessie's goldfish bowlright in with the fish. 'Magine!" Betty set her lips self-righteously. "Yah, an' what if I did, ole Miss Smarty! And mom, know what she did?" Billy's voice was loud with scorn. "Kept coming in the house with her roller-skates onright on the linoleum Aunt Bessie'd just waxed. She said...." "Oh, children, stop it. Mother's too tired tonight. And Billy, get the broom and sweep up all that mud you dragged in. Betty, help mother set the table. And put away your school things. Oh, dear, Etta's not home from school yet, and it's nearly six." Her voice rose in strident irritation. She found herself wondering, a little grimly, if Aunt Bessie still could be heard to wish piously that the Almighty had seen fit to bless her with a family. They were half way through supper by the time Etta came in, tossing her sweater over a chair. Emily looked fondly at her daughter whose red-gold hair framed a piquant face with dancing brown eyes. Etta went at once to the kitchen mirror and began a careful inspection of her complexion. "Where've you been, Etta?" asked her father, abruptly emerging from his newspaper. "Over to Meryl's," answered Etta, patting her curls. "I ate supper over there." "You're supposed to be home when your mother comes. You should help out a little. And who is Meryl?" "We were practicing a song and
19
dance act for assembly. Meryl's so talented." She turned around, executing a dance step. "Meryl Sisom. You know, Mother." "Some new people who just moved into town. They live over in the old Jacobs' home," explained Emily. Jack grunted. "Humph. Well, you see that you bring Meryl or whoever she is over here to practice so you can help a little. And that's final!" He brought his fist down on the table with a bang. "Oh, all right," Etta pouted. "Mr. Sisom makes simply scads of money," she went on, with a side glance at her father. "Meryl has awfully smart clothes. She's getting a new chubby fur jacket. Wish I could," she sighed volubly. Jack paddled off to the living room in his stocking feet to finish his nap, muttering that the money some people were spending was ridiculous, and Emily began clearing the table. "Maybe we can manage the jacket later on," she said to Etta who was helping. "Now hurry, dear, you'll be late for Mutual. It's Tuesday night, you know." "Oh, I'm not going tonight," replied Etta, "Meryl doesn't want to join. She says the things they do at Mutual are childish."
AS the weeks hurried on and the tag ends of work from even Emily's careful planning began to pile up, she tried to grow accustomed to the lint which accumulated under the beds from her one "free day" a week to the next. She trained herself not to notice the pile of mending which grew steadily higher on the sewing machine, or the ironing which hung perennially on the clothes' rack. But by the time the short cold days of winter had set in, she began to worry about Betty's frequent colds. Emily knew that Aunt Bessie, really the soul of kindness, nevertheless must have her house neat, and that often the twins played out-of-doors late on chilly afternoons with sweaters unbuttoned and caps left carelessly in the house. She tried to console herself with the knowledge that, as she always worked day shift, she was at home evenings to see that the children went to bed on time, with colds doctored if necessary. Somehow, she had ceased to talk over family troubles with her husband. By the time she had finished her almost endless evening tasks, he was usually asleep in his chair; or, if he was working night shift, he had to leave for work soon after she came home. And, like herself, he seemed too tired for much conversation. The few words they had for each other were merely moments snatched from seemingly more essential things. She would have liked to talk to him about the sealed note addressed to her which fell from Bill's overall pocket one night as she was hanging up the children's clothes. "Mrs. Merrill," it began, "if possible, will you please see that Billy gets some extra drill on his 'times tables' each evening? Otherwise, I may have to put him in a slower group. Your cooperation will be greatly..." and signed with the teacher's name. A guilty flush spread over Emily's face. The afternoons and evenings of over half the season had slipped away, and Billy had gone joyfully on, his "times tables" cards, sent home earlier in the year, reposing in the cupboard drawer. It was only a few days later that the foreman, Mr. Walters, told Emily that she would have to work night shift for several weeks; he was short of experienced women for the night work. "It will mean that you'll have to see to getting the twins to bed," she told Etta, as they prepared supper. "Your father is on the afternoon shift, and I have to leave right after supper." Etta didn't reply at first, but went on setting the table. "I've a chance to work evenings and Saturdays down at El Dansante Cafe, waiting on tables," she began at last. "Oh, but Etta," Emily's voice lifted in quick concern. "I don't want you to work down there. It'll be too hard on you. Anyway, I need you here at home." She forced her lips to smile. Etta glanced curiously at her mother; and the older woman realized, with a pang, that her daughter suddenly seemed grown-up, an adult who faced her with alien eyes. "But Mother," replied Etta, "you don't stay home. Why should I?" In the end, Etta won her parents' grudging consent to take the job; the hours wouldn't be long, and the proprietor promised to see that the girls got home safely. Emily prevailed upon Aunt Bessie to keep the twins at night, and for a while everything seemed to go smoothly again. Emily couldn't remember, later, just when she first began to notice a change in Etta. It may have been the morning Jack told her that their daughter was staying at El Dansante to dance long after her work was finished. "I've spoken to her about it. But I'm to go on night shift myself, now, so you'd better remind her to get home early," he warned Emily. One afternoon, she was roused by
20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
ALL THAT GLITTERS
the sound of Etta's and Meryl's voices in the kitchen. She glanced at the clock. Only two-thirty; they should still be in school. She frowned as she slid her feet into slippers and pulled her robe around her shoulders. It was hard enough to get a little rest, what with the essential housework lasting most of the forenoon. "How is it you two aren't in class?" she asked, opening the kitchen door. "Oh, we... That is, I... Got a call to go to work a little earlier," answered Etta lamely. "But Etta, you shouldn't miss school for any other work." Emily tried to keep the panic out of her voice. She realized, without knowing why, that this had happened before. "Oh, Mother, don't be silly." Etta's young face flushed with embarrassment. She glanced at her friend, who was watching with a little amused smile. "Well, let's not have it happen again." Emily turned back to the bedroom, suddenly conscious of her tousled hair and crumpled robe under Meryl's cool appraising eyes. Funny she'd never noticed before what a bold look the girl had, with frankly darkened lashes and too bright lipstick. It was later that same afternoon that she found Meryl's compact on the kitchen table. Only, as it sprang open in her hand, it contained not rouge and powder, but cigarettes. Etta, questioned about the matter, replied sulkily that she didn't know if Meryl smoked; it wasn't any of her business anyway, was it? The incident was crowded back in Emily's mind by the endless tide of work that pushed her on.
21
Then one Friday morning Emily was searching for her coat, getting ready to go home. She hummed a tune, thinking of what Mr. Walters, the foreman, had said as she left her work. "It's time for you to change back to day shift again Sunday, Mrs. Merrill. You've done so well, I want you to supervise the women workers. Only thing, you may be 'frozen' to your job for the duration, and you'll have to take your turn at the night shift. But it'll mean an increase in pay. Let me know when you come back Sunday." Preoccupied, she was at first unaware of what the women on the other side of the rack were saying. "...Well, if Etta were my daughter, I'd never let her run around with that Meryl Sisom." "...Humph. I guess she's just as bad as the rest. Out all hours of the night. The whole crowd smoking and drinking, so I hear." The door banged after the women. Emily stood clutching her coat, their words still ringing in her ears. Of course, it wasn't true! It couldn't be. Not Etta. Then she remembered the cigarette case. The ride home in the crowded bus seemed endless. She found Jack in the kitchen, gloomily cooking his breakfast. Emily sat down by the table and pushed back the stale dishes from last night's supper. If only she could stop shaking while she told him. He said nothing at first, and Emily thought that, oddly, he didn't seem surprised. "Well, Emily," he said gravely at last, "I don't know as I blame you for trying to earn a little extra. Heaven knows you deserve it, after all your years of going without. But this old 'home ship' of ours needs a pilot at the helm. Go into the living room." "Go into... But what...?" "Just go on in. You'll see." He pushed back his chair and followed her. For the rest of her life Emily would remember the scenethe early light mottling the rug, the fur jacket flung carelessly on a chair, and on the new divan, the girl lying asleep, still fully clothed, her bright hair spilling over the dark cushions. Emily opened her mouth, but no words came. Her feet were like lead as she walked across the room and bent down. She hadn't known how her knees were trembling until they gave way and she sank down on the edge of the divan. "Oh, Jack, Jack!" she sobbed, "she isn't... That is, I thought...." "No, she isn't drunk," said Jack bluntly, "just given out from dancing at that fool place where she works. [ put-my coat over her when I came in from work. Now, don't cry, Emily, she's all right  so far, at least." He put his arm around her shoulders, and in an instant the aloofness of the past months vanished in their common bond of concern. Then the rough gentleness in his voice gave way to sudden anger. "But I won't have it. This is the end. No daughter of mine...." Etta sat up, rubbing her eyes. "Gee, what's the matter? Say, I didn't intend to stay here all night." "All night!" Her father's voice exploded like a storm. "Don't worry, daughter. You haven't been here all night! Now just you listen to me." His angry words beat upon Etta's bowed head. But Emily, still dabbing at her eyes with her wadded handkerchief, had made up her mind at last. She had gone to the hall phone and dialed a number. "Hello, is this... Oh, all right. Just give Mr. Walters a message for me, please. Tell him that Mrs. Emily Merrill will not be at work... Any more." > BEYOND THIS NIGHT Linnie Fisher Robinson - We toiled, beloved, to build a universe secure, Hoping for lasting peace, where we could turn To things of home; nor dreamed our sons should thus endure Days like those other ones we knew. But hate fires burn, Raging across the world; dreams fall apart Leaving but blackened ruins smoldering behind, Bringing despair to try the human heart And tear security from out the human mind. Yet counting all the sands our lives have known, Adding our joy when peace lay on the land, We can but say that life is good; we can but own That, through those storms, we knew that God was in command. Today, that candle, in this dark, shines bright For things our sons shall gather past the night! 22 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 Psychological WarfareAn Invisible Weapon Mark K. Allen Psychologist, Utah State Training School WAR is fought today from three principal approaches: the economic, the military, and the psychological. Economic warfare means "starvation for our enemies and food for our friends." It means keeping the enemy from obtaining from anywhere in the world the things he needs to live and to make war on usthe food, the iron, the fuel, and the other materials needed to make and operate a war machine. In an age of mechanization, this type of warfare is very important. In this type of warfare the economicthe Allies had the better of the argument in World War 1. But in this war, the Axis has already reduced through conquest this economic inequality. In the military phase of war, until recently, the Axis seems to have had a definite advantage, because of longer preparation, more thorough training, and a more definite military plan than was the case with the United Nations. Our present mobilization and arms production program, as well as mass air attacks on Axis war industries, are calculated to remove this advantage. The third type of warfarethe psychologicalmeans weakening the opponent through all sorts of tricks designed to confuse, to frighten, to discourage, to mislead, and to divide. It is "an offensive war waged with intellectual and emotional weapons to destroy the power of morale resistance in the enemy's army and civilian population and to diminish enemy prestige in the eyes of the neutrals." An Axis spokesman has said, speaking of psychological warfare, that "It is essential to attack the enemy nation in its weak spots, to undermine and break down its resistance, and to convince it that it is being deceived, misled, and. Brought to destruction by its own government. 'Thus the people will lose confidence in the justice of its cause so that the political opposition in those nations will raise its head and become a more powerful trouble-maker. The enemy nation's originally solid, powerful, and well-knit fabric must be gradually disintegrated, broken down, rotted, so that it falls apart like a fungus treaded upon in a forest." Psychological warfare consists of spreading rumors, false reports, threats, and fears of deadly secret weapons. The channels through which this type of warfare is prosecuted are short-wave radio, fifth column, and rumors planted by agents of the opponents and spread by people uncritically. The type of material spread usually has to do with the strength of the aggressor, the weakness of the defender, and the futility of resistance. An attempt is made to discredit the leaders of the opposing nations. In early stages of psychological warfare, a feeling of Page 23 easy complacency is encouraged by promises of non-aggression. Psychological warfare is referred to today by news commentators as the "war of nerves," the "strategy of terror," "breaking down the home front," "demoralizing the enemy," and the "war of words," or propaganda. With the stepping up of communications, especially the radio, psychological warfare has taken on a new significance in the present war. There is nothing incomprehensible in this type of warfare, and every American should thoroughly understand it and realize how treacherously it can attack, even over many thousands of miles of land and sea. Let us, then, turn to the problem of psychological warfare as practiced against the Democracies, Freedom of ptess, of speech, and of assembly all censored or denied in totalitarian countries as a step in the psychological preparation of their own peoplein democratic countries provide fertile soil in which to wage psychological warfare. The Axis program has three principal aims: (1) to increase conflict and disunity among us; (2) to produce anxiety, fear, and confusion; and (3) to produce apathy and disillusionment. Just as the Axis strategy on the battlefield is to divide and then to conquer, so on the psychological front every possible device is employed to promote disunity among us. The starting points are our own latent prejudices. A few of the most common possibilities are racial, religious, political, national, and economic class prejudices. The efforts of the enemies of this country to stir up racial hatreds are well known, and the nearer their claims fit our prejudices, the more they stir up strife and disunity among us. Religious prejudices are easily aroused by propaganda, and political disunity is readily promoted. Repeated attempts have been made to drive wedges between the United States and Great Britain by saying that "Britain always gets someone else to pull her chestnuts out of the fire." Likewise, Japan points out to China the futility of expecting continued help from allies who have so miserably "let her down in the past." Short-wave radio propaganda from nations at war with us has been particularly directed toward stirring up economic class hatred in America. One of the corner stones of this plan of conquest is the hope that America will collapse from within because of the failure to achieve class unity. Labor is stirred up against capital, and capital against labor. Unfortunately, many people in this country are caught in this trap because of already established prejudices along this line of thinking, which, of course, invites propaganda of this character from the enemies of this country. The second general aim of psychological warfare, after divisions are fostered among the people, is to produce anxiety, fear, and confusion. This is done through pointing out to the victim the invincibility of the aggressor. It consists of a strong military power intimidating a weaker one into submission. The weak are told of the fate of other victims, and are warned of a worse fate, and impressed with the futility of resistance. This "strategy of terror' has been one of the cruelest weapons of the aggressors. If weak peoples still resisted after due warning, their fate 24 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 PSYCOLOGICAL WARFARE was as bad as promised and became a warning to the next victim. Terror is spread by several devices. Civilian bombing is perhaps the most dreadful. Bombs are even made to scream to add to the terror. Incendiaries and delayed-action bombs prolong and intensify the terror of mass raids. The threat of gas bombs has also been used to advantage. Fear has been spread by such tricks as throwing images on the clouds with huge lantern-slide projectors. _ Little does a warring nation care whether its opponents are destroyed by bombs and shells or by psychological methods so long as they cease resistance. Panic and a broken will to resist through actual combat or war work is the aim of the "strategy of terror." If psychological victories can be won, they are usually much less costly than actual military conquests. It is difficult to estimate how much aggressor armies and machines have been spared by psychological victories of the propaganda bureaus. Confusion is spread by circulating all sorts of false news reports. Reports from an opposing nation may say an attack will be made at a certain time at a certain place. Then the place will be changed. When sufficient confusion has been caused, an attack will be made at a wholly unexpected place. Confusion makes organized resistance more difficult. False reports have been circulated repeatedly in this war by nations whose armies were locked in close combat with those of other nations, often successfully dispersing and disorganizing the opposing forces. The third aim of psychological warfare is to promote apathy and disillusionment. The Axis nations have 25 been known to spread much propaganda about some great action, such as the move through the Balkans, then the talk would subside, then it would start up again and die down again. Finally, when everyone had become apathetic about it, they would strike. Japan talked of arbitrating her difficulties with United States up until the very day the attack was made on Pearl Harbor. The Japanese have repeatedly tried to disillusion the people of the United States about the reliability of the reports given them from the Navy as to losses. Japan's technique is to announcesometimes accurately, but often notUnited States' naval losses several days in advance of the Navy's reports. In the battle of Java, 'in which United States losses were severe, Japan announced them with some accuracy many days before our reportthe aim being to make it appear to the people of this country that Japan forced the Navy to make admissions it otherwise would not have made. People should constantly be on guard against this trick, remembering how important it. Is for our Navy to avoid giving information to opposing nations. Another plan is to announce several days in advance the capture of a certain city which is quite sure to be taken later. This forces a denial from the defenders at first, but an admission later when the city is actually takenall of which, it is hoped, will establish confidence in the reliability of reports from the opposing nations and a distrust of reports of one's own nation. Another trick of similar character, practiced by the Axis, is the announcement of false victories for the Democracies. Since we are watchful for good news, we may accept these reports, not suspecting their origin. Later, when reports prove untrue, we become disillusioned and confused. The secretive way in which the Axis powers plan campaigns often lulls us into a sense of false security. Our perilous plight of unpreparedness during the early months of this war was our punishment for years of this weakness. Nations at war with the United States have taken great advantage of our easy optimism and uncritical self-sufficiency. We have failed to take a proper measure of those who are against us, and we have considerably overestimated the security we have in extensive but undeveloped material resources and manpower. Nations opposing this country still feign weakness at times to lull us into this sense of false security and the resulting relaxation of effort. Another potent psychological weapon is the peace offensive. Should the United Nations appear to be really about to win the war, a strong bid for peace can surely be expected from the Axis. The hope will be to lull the Democracies back into a sense of false security, while further preparation may be made to attack them. The Axis nations real- 2 ize how "pacifistic" at heart we are, and they are sure to attempt to turn this fine ideal to our destruction. The defense against psychological warfare is as complicated as war itself. Let us hope that some understanding of what it is will aid in our resistance to it. However, civilians can prepare themselves against it in some measure by abiding by the following suggestions: First, keep reliably informed on the daily news. Learn to check habitually the sources of all reports and to evaluate their content according to their source. Second, don't carry rumors. They are the most unreliable source of news there is. Remember, most of them are planted by those opposed to us, and they are meant to confuse and mislead us. Always ask the tumor monger where he got his story. Write it down if it sounds vicious enough, then check it with your civilian defense authorities. You might thus help to find fifth columnists. Don't repeat rumors to your neighbots. Third, speak constructively of democracy and its leaders. This doesn't mean not to criticize, but it does mean to learn to see and to speak of all that is good as well as that which needs correcting. FAITH AND COURAGE The following Christmas message by Nicholas Murray Butler may appropriately be carried into the new year: Christmas Day in this year of grace will be celebrated with civilization at the lowest mark in the history of modern times. This means that more than ever men of light and leading and insight must have faith and courage and hope. They must not and cannot let their faith weaken in those everlasting ideals which must rule any civilized and peaceful world.... 26 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 Little Stones that Change the Course of Rivers Lella Marler Hoggan O river runs down to the sea N without meeting with obstacles and interferences. And no life fulfills its destiny without overcoming trials and hardships. Yet we chafe under restraint. We resent interference. We become frustrated when sorrow and disappointment disrupt our plans. We feel that life should run smoothly for us. Why should our course be hampered and blocked at every turn? Why should obstacles be forever retarding our progress? Are the very fates discriminating against us? Know this, O friend, neither life nor law discriminate against anyone. We reach the high goals we set out to achieve through the conquest of difficulties. Said J. G. Holland: f We rise by the things that are 'neath our feet; By what we have mastered of good and gain. By the pride deposed and the passion slain, And the vanquished ills that we hourly meet. There is a native in his island home who believes that "the strength and valor of the enemy he kills passes into himself." Symbolically, this is true. We gain strength and development from the conquest of difficult undertakings. Disappointments and delays are often the forces that are preparing. Us to assume responsibilities of importance. We have to meet and overcome trials before we are in readiness to accept the great trusts. Said a great poet: A chance rock in an upland brook, May change a river's course. And yet no rock, No, nor the baffling mountains of the world, Can hold it from its destiny, the sea. Though a stone may divert the stream from its original channel, the water flows around it and makes its way in and out, under and over, past stick arid pebble and deadwood and growing things, on and on until it reaches the surging sea. The picturesque cataract that breaks in sparkling grandeur over a jagged cliff and spills itself in lacy rainbows down a mountain gorge, has gathered the very force that glorifies it from the obstruction that blocked its way. To accept the barriers on life's pathway as impediments to progress is to admit defeat before we have undertaken the journey. All lives are beset by struggle and pain and sorrow. This is nature's way of teaching us the things we need to know. We can't gain experience through the efforts of someone else. Our joys and sorrows must come first hand. We have to work in order to learn to work. We have to suffer in order to gain insight into life. We have to pray in order to learn what prayer means. Real values come only through earnest effort. Intellectual growth and spiritual development are not attained. By listless wishing. Emerson said: "The law of nature is, Do the thing, and you shall have the Page 27 power: but they who do not the thing have not the power." It is not the reward, but the struggle that perfects us. Effort precedes efficiency, and "joy is in the quest." Weare forever consoling ourselves with alibis and excuses for the things we have failed to accomplish. Though we can not explain our weaknesses and failures away, even to ourselves, still we can overcome them and lift ourselves nearer to the ideal that we secretly cherish. Our strength of character is measured by our mastery of the trials we have met. What we think and feel and do puts its mark upon us with indelible fingers. Truly "the gods we worship write their names on our faces." SCOUTMASTER and some members of his troop were attending a rodeo. They stood on the sidelines one morning and watched a procession march gaily down the street. Decked in full regalia, a group of Indians from a nearby reservation headed the parade. Brilliant Navajo blankets covered their horses' backs in lieu of saddles. But nothing 'excited the admiration of the on-lookers so much as the gorgeous war bonnets worn by the old Indian chieftains. These bonnets not only encircled their faces with bright feathers and other trophies, but also extended gracefully down their backs nearly to their feet. At the close of the parade a pompous young man stepped up to one of the Indians and offered him a handful of small coins for his war bonnet. The Indian silently shook his head. "Doesn't he understand the fellow?" asked one of the scouts. "Yes," said the scoutmaster, that Indian speaks English as fluently as you or I do. But his war bonnet, like your merit badges, is not for sale. Every eagle feather, every weasel tail, every bear's claw in his bonnet is a symbol of some heroic accomplishment or brave deed. The headdress represents years of effort and is a mark of honor and heroism. He would no more sell it than a king would sell his crown." The scouts understood, for each of them was wearing trophies that had cost him long hours of study and effort to obtain. They knew the delight that comes from a worthy achievement. Too often we adults miss the joy of some great accomplishment because we lack the courage or confi-. Dence to begin. We tell ourselves that we are too old or too busy or that we haven't the ability for such an undertaking. We let our fears and misgivings baffle us. We wall ourselves out from privileges we might enjoy. We permit lost opportunities to taunt us, old age to frighten us, ignorance to threaten us. Our mistakes rise up before us like shrouded ghosts in the darkness to accuse and intimidate us. Down with the wall! Banish the spectre! Forget the failures of yesterday! Are we not God's children all? And have we not been assured that He will give us strength and courage according to our need? To the valiant hearted there is no ultimate defeat. There is always a tomorrow. "True art," says Annie Pike Greenwood, "is in bringing some sort of triumph out of pain.""* Even the Master knew Gethsemane and the cross. But did He not tise to triumphant glory, to stand as the Savior of the world and as a guiding light to mankind forevermore? *Used by special permission of author. 28 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 Justice Is a Group Affair Eva Willes Wangsgaard UDITH RAWSON sat on a rag rug on the summer grass, wrapped in the warm, fruity smell of yellow roses, and thought about people and life. It had been long since she had had time to sit and think. But now the examinations were over, and she was graduated, and there was a whole glorious afternoon for her very own. She looked down at her graduation dress made of white lawn with a yoke of tucks and insertion and tuffles of Valenciennes lace; and she remembered how nearly she had come to not having it. That made her recall Edna Silver and Edna's courageous words, and the beauty of those words caught in her throat and tightened her chest; and the whole school year, just past, began to unfold in little scenes like stereopticon views. There was Crossburg the day of the examinations. 'The eighth graders from every town in the county met in the Crossburg Central schoolhouse in three crowded rooms, which had been thrown into one large hall by sliding the great doors which made up their walls. Judith sat in the room at the south where the warm May sun crept through the Venetian blinds. When she looked for Margie, her sister, she found her in the center of the middle room, but no matter how she craned her neck, she couldn't see her brother, Artie. He must be in the third room; and it was around a corner 'so that only a triangle of it was visible from where Judith sat. Every student was tense with excitement. Margie looked calm, except for that habit she had of wiping her perfectly dry lips with her handkerchief; and the pink in her cheeks was too bright. She'd be all right, though, and so would Artie whose thoughts were always slow, but exact. Judith left off thinking of her brother and sister and looked around. 'Then a teacher appeared and began writing questions on the board, and Judith bent to her work of writing answers on the paper that lay on her desk which had been provided for this purpose. All day the examinations went on. A large staff of teachers corrected papers as fast as they were handed in, so by nighttime everyone knew whether or not he had passed. To know was a relief, though some of the kids failed and cried, or even got hysterical. Judith turned her eyes away from that memory. She knew some of them, and it hurt to remember. But there were happier scenes. A girl from Hillsdale got such high marks that they called her a valedictorian, and she gave a speech at the exercises. Maybe on some other graduation day Judith could do that for her class. And here were her white lawn dress and her hat of white chiffon pleated into a bandeau covered with pink for-get-me-nots instead of the blue ones Margie wore. But she almost hadn't got them.... Ever since she had entered Mr. Peterson's eighth grade, she had felt baffled. Mr. Peterson didn't believe in special promotions. Helen 'Tanner was somehow an exception. Page 29 Maybe that was because Mr. Peterson taught her the year before; he had been promoted with the class. Helen was dainty and pretty, too, with, her auburn curls and her gray eyes that smiled flatteringly up at him from under long, dark, curled lashes. Besides she was a whole year older than Judith. "What do they think I'm running here? A kindergarten?" Mr. Peterson was tall and skinny with thin, forward-falling brown hair, and he flipped Judith's registration card as he spoke. Judith just stood there fingering the pink ribbon that tied her yellow braids into a swing, and lifted brown eyes to his spiral-like, blue-green ones, which refused to meet hers. He wasn't ever openly cross; he just hid behind soft prickles like wild lettuce, so that the damp hand of caution pressed always on her throat. If she sometimes got too excited and forgot and called out the answer, he would say, "Grown-up people wait their turns. Only babies yell for attention." Then her report card would read: Deportment Good or Fair. Not once had there been an Excellent or a Very Good the way her studies said. Father had talked and talked to her about it, but she didn't know how to change. Father said, ""Teachers are always right." Last year it had been different, because Mr. Jerome had been kind and wise like Father generally was. Even his hair curled in happy little curls, and his eyes were warm and blue. Last year there had been two classes in one roomone sixth and one seventh grade. Artie had been in the seventh with Mr. Jerome, but Margie had been in another room that was all seventh grade. Judith had been sixth grade then. With two classes in one room there had been more study time, and Judith had found it hard to keep out of mischief. She had sat in one corner among a group of boys. The daily assignments hadn't been nearly enough, so she had coached the whole group in _ arithmetic until they were two months ahead. Then it wasn't fun any more. Billy, Clyde, and Robert had liked it at first, and they were good sports, too. They didn't care if Judith was a girl, but worked with her anyway. But they lost interest. ONE day Judith had finished the last word in Self-Help by Samuel Smiles, which Mr. Jerome had lent her. There wasn't a single thing to do. Clyde was whittling a slender stick into a "guinny." "Want it, Judy?" he had whispered. "Thanks. It's cute." Judith began to tap the tiny stick with her ruler. Mr. Jerome had sat down at his desk to check a lesson. Judith had slid into the aisle and had given the toy harder and harder taps. It had leaped and fallen with a small, dropped pencil sound. Suddenly it had gone sailing through the air and had lit, plop, on Mr. Jerome's book. Judith had slipped instantly back into her seat and seized a book. Mr. Jerome had picked up the offending toy and had held it before his face. "A "guinny' is a dangerous plaything, even on the school ground," he said. He pressed his forefinger up and down on one sharp point. Then, "Here, Judith. Dispose of it." 30 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 JUSTICE lS A GROUP AFFAIR If he had pricked her with the "guinny," Judith couldn't have been more startled and ashamed, nor could she have jumped more quickly. She had walked to the desk, though, and, taking the "guinny" from his outstretched hand, had dropped it into the wire wastebasket. The incident was closed, and Mr. Jerome hadn't marked down her report card. He knew how hard she tried to hold herself back. But afterwards Judith discovered that there were interesting texts in the seventh grade desks and _ borrowed one often. And she listened to seventh grade discussions instead of getting into trouble. Even that proved embarrassing, though. One day when Mr. Jerome was directing a seventh grade geography class he asked, '""What article necessary in manufacturing is entirely absent in Brazil?" The class had sat too still. Hands were raised. Then up went Judith's hand. Mr. Jerome's kind eyes looked tired. Maybe he was wondering what the child could want now. Maybe he was weary because the seventh graders were unprepared. But he decided to settle Judith first. "What is it?" he asked. "Coal," answered Judith. Two rows of seventh grade faces came up at once and stared at Judith. Three rows of sixth grade students quit studying and giggled. Judith dropped her hot face on her desk and felt the cool, smooth touch of the maple top. Mr. Jerome raised his brows. "Where did you learn that?" "T read it." "Well, you're correct," he said, No 31 and was still for a long moment. Then he went on conducting class. At promotion time Mr. Jerome had decided harder work would be better for Judith. So he had jumped her into the eighth grade. But Mr. Peterson didn't look at things that way. He resented both her energy and her youngness. He resented all of her. This year all three of the Rawson children were in the same room. Judith hung around Margie too much, but there were no other companions in the room. She missed last -year's kids. Some of these kids were oldseyenteen and eighteen. They stayed at home so often to work in fields and orchards. Artie often stayed home to look after things while Father was away, but Judith and Margie seldom missed a day. So Margie was just right. It was Judith and Artie who were out of place. And there was Edna Silver who was an orphan and lived with a cross aunt. The other children in the room told tales about how much work she had to do each day before she came to school, and lots and lots of days she didn't get there at all. Judith had often helped her with lessons at recess, because Judith was often lonely and didn't know how to mix with these new kids. Edna learned well too. Some of the other big girls couldn't learn even when you tried your hardest, because they couldn't forget that they were older than you. But Edna wasn't like that. She thought of the work, not herself, and stuck with Judith no matter how often Judith had to go over a thing. And she was eighteen, too. She was a nice girl, but too old to play with Judith. Lizzie Shaw was Margie's playmateshe and Helen Tanner. But Lizzie didn't want Margie's little sister along and often made it plain that what she said was not for Judith's ears. Helen Tanner was all right when she and Judith studied together. But she acted just like Lizzie when it was recess time and she didn't need her. School wasn't nearly so much fun as it had been last year. But Mr. Peterson puzzled Judith more than the pupils did. When the class was in diagraming, Lizzie, Margie, Helen, and Judith read the text and went ahead almost without trouble. But if they ever got stuck, Mr. Peterson was always busy. It didn't matter much, though. One of them always found the help they needed by reading the book again. One day, Mr. Peterson was putting a diagram on the board. He made a mistake. Lizzie's hand went up. She was like that. Things were never correct or incorrect to Lizzie. They were right or wrong, and must be set straight. So she told Mr. Peterson. He was quiet and went very pale. Finally, "How would you do it?" he asked. Lizzie drew the correct diagram. Judith, Margie, and Helen nodded. Mr. Peterson said, "Well, that's right, too. Just be careful to have a reason for your diagram." Lizzie opened her mouth, then shut it tight and plunked into her seat, and the lesson went on. There was a lot of work to be done in the eighth grade and Judith liked it, but she wasn't happy. She felt choked. There were too many ways for Mr. Peterson to show what he thought of special promotion students, like asking Judith if she didn't need a rest when you could hear the younger students out at recess. Once after he had said that, Judith stood by the steps not feeling like joining in any of the games at all. Edna Silver had come up and put her arm around Judith's shoulder. "Don't let it bother you, Judy," she said. "You're all right. Keep right on going. You're the kind that can. I can't, but part of me will follow you however far you go. Now run and play." Judith smiled and ran. HEN the report cards for the third term came out, Judith  opened hers eagerly. She'd tried to be good, and maybe Mr. Peterson had noticed. But she held it down and stared at the wall. The subjects weren't so bad. You either got your lessons and passed your examinations with high marks or low, but deportment was different. That was the teacher's opinion. Now it was lower than ever and stood out like a stump in the snowP for Poor. Father would be disappointed and so would Mother. They had said that she couldn't have a new dress for graduation if she didn't improve in behavior. It was no use to talk. Teacher was always right. "It didn't matter how much you learned if you didn't know how to live," Father had said.. Judith thought and thought. She could find no reason for such a low mark. She had "called out" a few times, but so many, many times she had succeeded in holding back even when she was the only one who wanted to answer! She guessed Mr. 32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 JUSTICE IS A GROUP AFFAIR Peterson was right. Kids shouldn't get ahead of themselves. Margie would have her new dress now, and Judith would have to wear an old one, if they let her go to the exercises at all. Still, maybe it was a mistake. Hope struck a small match. It didn't seem fair, and teachers did sometimes make mistakes in copying, just as students did. She'd go and ask him. Anyway, she might find out what was wrong so that she could improve the last term. If she did, maybe she could have her new dress after all. But Mr. Peterson wouldn't notice her. Other children were around his desk, and he kept taking new ones even after Judith was sure that it was her turn. When she tried to get attention, Mr. Peterson said, "Don't push like a baby." There was nothing to do but wait. She pushed the tears back so that she wouldn't be a baby. She felt an arm around her and looked up into Edna Silver's quiet eyes. Edna took Judith's report card, glanced at it, and handed it back. How long she had been listening and watching, Judith didn't know. But now she was speaking to Mr. Peterson. "What's wrong with Judith's behavior? I think she's a good little kid. I've learned a lot from her." She sounded defiant, but she wasn't. She was just earnest. That was evident by the light in her fine, grey eyes; and something in her voice made Mr. Peterson listen. Silence stretched like an elastic band between them, then snapped, and Edna continued, "Children are a sacred trust. They have a right to 33 fairness and to understanding." A change came over her face. "We can't play favorites. I know one who wouldn't get such good marks if she didn't borrow Judith Rawson's eraser so often during tests." Helen Tanner was putting her books into her sack. She gave Edna a swift look, and hurried out of the room with one book still in her hand. Judith stood fascinated. Mr. Peterson had the same look he had on his face the day Lizzie corrected the diagram. But Edna stood tall on her convictions, and the color flamed high in her cheeks. She wasn't fighting for Judith alone. "Ahem! Ahem!" Mr. Peterson cleared his throat, but found nothing to say. Edna hadn't finished. "Whether you play fair with Judith or not isn't just between you and the child. Justice is a group affair, and we older students expect to see justice done." Mr. Peterson looked out into the room, then dropped his eyes and went on making little fishes with his pencil on a blotter on his desk. Judith looked up. Almost every older student in the room stood in a little group in the rear looking at Edna with approving eyes. Artie was among them, straight aad tall, with his large blue eyes almost violet with concern, and those crooked little lines above his nose deeper than she had ever seen them. Judith choked and tears spilled over and ran down her cheeks. The o. Der kids were wonderful! And all this time that she had been concerned only with herself, they had known and cared. (Continued on page 75) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon WITH time, woman's sphere has expanded from the primitive dugout to the whole intelligent universe. In today's world, woman is laborer, mechanic, soldier, doctor, lawyer, scientist, statesman, nurse, teacher, philosopher, poet. Never has she had such power to shape the destiny of men and of nations. God grant she may use her strength wisely and kindly and justly in helping to rebuild the shattered world! RENSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE, the oldest engineering college in the nation, now for the first timeis adinitting women both to the student body, and to the faculty. IN the University of Southern California two departments are headed by women: the German, by Mrs. Ruth Day, and the Latin by Dr. Ruth Brown. MRS. E. O. HOWARD, "mother" of Salt Lake's beautiful Memory Park, which hallows the memory of the dead heroes of World War I, has lost a grandson in the present conflict. In the former war her only son, a captain in the American forces, died in the Argonne just before the Armistice. His only son, who was born shortly after his father's death, a flyer in the Eagle Squadron, gave his life in this struggle. WENDELL L. WILLKIE reported that Mme, Chiang Kai-shek is the only individual he 'ever met whose personality far exceeds the build-up of press agents. America feels high enthusiasm for the visit Page 34 of this wise, sympathetic Chinese woman who has stood beside her husband in battle and counseled him in his overwhelming difficulties. THE entire personnel of one aircraft factory in Britain is made up of women. MRS. JULIA ELLERTSON ROBINSON, 94, died recently in Salt Lake City. N the American Bundles for Britain campaign, the Red Cross contributions alone have totaled $31,000,000. THE WAACs are to be increased from 25,000 to 150,000. HE spirited young Russian sniper, Lieutenant Lyudmilla Pavlichenko, has captivated American audiences by her intelligence, character, and sincerity. She fights to preserve home and country. She hopes to marry and rear a family after the war. DONNA D. SORENSEN, former counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society, and a present General Board member, and Leona F. Wintch, General Board member, have each recently given birth to a son. PHILOSOPHY in a New Key: a Study in the Symbolism of Reason, Rite, and Art is a new scientific book of worth and originality by Dr. Suzanne K. Langer of Radcliffe College. One challenging idea in this book is that "man can adapt himself somehow to anything that his imagination can cope with." EDITORIAL Vol. 30 JANUARY, 1943 No. 1 A New Heart and a new Spirit CAST away from you all your: transgressions, whereby ye have transgressed; and make you a new heart and a new spirit...." The end of a year is a favorable time to "cast away... Transgressions" and seek to make "a new heart and a new spirit," for there is encouragement in viewing the events of the past year as being behind one and regarding the new year that lies ahead much as a book, unmarred and unmarked, containing three hundred and sixty-five blank pages on which will be written defeats or triumphs, retrogression or progress. It is true that many of the events which may affect one during the coming year arise through no volition of the individual; but the pages of this yearbook will glow with beauty or be drab and even uglynot because of events that may transpire, but according to the manner in which the individual meets these events. The most luminous page may shine with faith developed from experiencing one of life's darkest tragedies. This life is a time of testing and proving whether or not one is a true Latter-day Saint. "I the Lord search the heart, I try the reins, even to give every man according to his ways, and according to the fruit of his doings." To write a yearbook worthy of a Latter-day Saint, one must continually study the Gospel and seek to live a life in accordance with its teachings. The more one studies, the more clearly do one's own faults and even transgressions cry out for correction. In this inward searching, the first examination may well reveal failings manifested in the home in one's daily life. Is there need of more patience and understanding for loved ones, or is there the need for more firmness and discipline? Is a resolution wanted to make every minute count? Brigham Young once said "that our time was all we could call our own, we should have to give an account of it, and therefore we should use it to the best possible advantage in assisting to build up the Kingdom of God on earth." On the other hand, should more time be devoted to the home the better to guard it, should more care be given to train one's children more perfectly in the laws and principles of the Gospel, in having family prayers and in studying the scriptures? One may also resolve to more frequently visit the sick, seek to bring cheer to the afflicted and comfort to the sorrowing, and to more faithfully attend to one's Church duties. But perhaps it is wisdom not to undertake too many resolutions at once, although one does naturally continually strive to improve in many ways. One or two resolutions faithfully kept are better than many abandoned before the keeping has become a habit. It is well, finally, when making a resolution to live and plan for the day alone and let the tomorrows wait until they in turn become today. The present moment is the only time that must be lived. If then as each succeeding year advances, resolutions are made and kept looking toward improvement and development, these resolutions will, in time, serve as stepping stones to a better life; and the yearbooks will glow ever brighter illuminating a character striving to obey that great dictum, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect."M. C. S.
Notes to THE FIELD
Leaflets on Health, Home Nursing and First Aid to be Distributed in February, 1943
CONTINUING the century-long interest and activity of the Relief Society in health and nursing, the General Board urges that all families take precautions to preserve health through such means as proper nutrition, adequate clothing and bedding, and general care, suggests that all families, insofar as possible, provide themselves with first aid supplies, and advises the women to take courses in first aid or home nursing, or both, and to cooperate with their local Relief Societies in the establishment of home nursing supply chests. These suggestions are of special importance during the present war conditions because of possibility of disaster or epidemic, and because of curtailment of hospital and nursing service for civilians, making it necessary to depend to great extent on home nursing. Relief Society visiting teachers, when making regular visits for the month of February, will leave at each home a leaflet on these matters issued by the General Board of Relief Society.
First-Aid Kits for Families: The leaflet contains a recommended list of first-aid supplies for families, not only those families in war risk areas but families in all other areas as well, for use in case of accident or household emergencies. It is recognized that it may not at all times be possible to procure all the articles listed, but it is suggested that families provide themselves with such articles and partial quantities as can be procured. Many families doubtless already have on hand most of the articles in the recommended list of supplies and need only to take stock of the supplies which are on hand, to assemble them in a receptacle which is easy to carry and keep them in a safe and readily accessible place. The leaflet includes excerpts, reprinted with permission from the American Red Cross First Aid Text Book, describing the various articles recommended for the family first-aid kit and explaining their uses.
Demonstration of First-Aid Supplies at February Work-and-Business Meeting: All Relief Societies in war risk areas, and all others desiring to do so, are requested to conduct a demonstration of the articles recommended for the family first-aid kit. This demonstration is scheduled for the February work-and-business meeting, unless otherwise announced, and where possible is to be conducted by an individual acquainted with first-aid practices who will explain the use of the various articles and demonstrate the making of triangular bandages and splints, so that these articles can be made in Relief Society work meeting (or in the home) and added to the family first-aid kit along with articles which are purchased.
Relief Society Home-Nursing Supply Chest: The General Board recommends that every ward Relief Society wherever located arrange to accumulate a supply of articles ordinarily needed for home nursing in case of sickness or disability, such articles to be either rented or loaned according to circumstances of families using the supply. Believing that many families have such articles which are not in use and which they would be willing to give or lend to Relief Society supply chests, particularly at the present time when some articles cannot be procured by purchase, a survey form accompanies the leaflet to be distributed by visiting teachers in February upon which families may specify such articles as they would be willing to give or lend to such a home-nursing supply chest.
Adequate Bedding for All L. D. S. Families: During the past few years, many stake and ward Relief Societies, at the suggestion of their respective Church Welfare Committees, have conducted bedding projects to encourage and assist all families within their boundaries to be well equipped with good beds and bedding. The Relief Society now urges all families to make a follow-up check of their bedding facilities and make an effort to provide themselves with any additional bedding which is needed. Comfortable and adequate bedding is particularly needed at this time because of curtailment of the fuel supply in many communities due to exigencies of war and because of the need for protecting the health of every individual during this war period while nursing and medical facilities and supplies are limited. Because of present conditions with respect to labor, materials, and war production, only those bedding supplies which are currently needed should be procured at this time. Suggestions have been issued to ward Relief Societies for cooperative plans whereby members supplying their own materials may have quilting done at Relief Society meetings.
Women Advised to Take Courses in First Aid and Home Nursing: The General Board of Relief Society again advises that all women able to do so take the Red Cross course in first aid or home nursing, or both. Many Relief Societies are arranging with the local Red Cross chapter for these courses to be given in the wards, and members may make inquiry of their local Relief Society president or their local Red Cross chapter concerning such courses.
Other Recommendations Applicable Only in War Risk Areas: The General Board recommends that in war risk areas, ward Relief Societies procure ward first-aid supplies to be kept under jurisdiction of the Relief Society in ward meetinghouses. A recommended list of such supplies for these areas is contained in a bulletin dated December 29, 1942 and sent to all stake, ward, and mission Relief Society presidents. This bulletin also recommended that in war risk areas at least one woman in each stake be called to prepare herself as a Red Cross first-aid instructor who will conduct first-aid classes for the convenience of the women in the local wards of the stake. In these areas an additional survey is to be made by the visiting teachers in February to ascertain supplies which families would be able to make available, upon call of the ward Relief Society president, for use in case of emergency entailing temporary housing other than in homes. Accordingly, in sections considered by stake or mission authorities to be war risk areas, a special survey form for this purpose will accompany the leaflet to be distributed by the visiting teachers during the month of February.
Petitions on Informative Labeling
The General Board of Relief Society is cooperating with the National Council of Women in petitioning the Office of Price Administration to require that goods bear informative labels clearly stating what an article is, of what it is made, how it is made, what service it will give, and how it should be cared for. All Relief Society members in the United States can help achieve this desirable goal by signing petitions which will be explained and circulated at a Relief Society meeting.
Suggestive Program for Sunday Evening, March 7, 1943
IN a letter dated April 26, 1942, the First Presidency designated the evening meeting of Fast Sundays for use by the auxiliary organizations. At a meeting of the general executives of the auxiliaries, the Fast Sunday evening meetings of November and March were assigned to Relief Society. Ward Relief Society presidents may therefore consult their respective bishops and ask for permission to arrange for a Relief Society meeting on the evening of March 7, 1943. This is a very favorable Sunday on which to present a Relief Society program, coming as it does on the first Sunday of Relief Society anniversary month. The General Board submits the following suggestive program for use on this evening. Wards desiring to plan their own programs are at liberty to do so. Much of the material for the suggested program is drawn from The American Citizens Handbook recommended for use in the social science course, "What 'America' Means." The objective of the program is to show that the cause of freedom is the cause of Christ. Democracy finds its fullest expression in the roots of religion, which has ever emphasized the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man. For democracy to reach its highest fruition, our society must include that larger liberty preached so eloquently by the Hebrew prophets and by Jesus. (American Citizens Handbook, page 16.) As planned, the program will honor the boys in the service, their parents, wives, and children. It is suggested that seats be reserved at the meeting for the honored families and that Relief Society presidents consult their respective bishops concerning a display of pictures of ward members who are now in the service, if such pictures are not already on display in the chapel. The flag of our nation should also be prominently displayed. Mimeographed copies of the program for use by the audience would add greatly to the success of the program. In order to insure a large attendance, it is recommended that visiting teachers on their regular February visits invite all ward members to be present at this meeting and that advance announcements of this meeting be made in Relief Society and other ward gatherings. Relief Society members should particularly be urged to attend. The patriotic theme of the program is timely and should appeal to all, both old and young. The program will be more effective if regular ward announcements to be made at the meeting are made preliminary to its presentation.
38 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
NOTES TO THE FIELD
I. II. III. IV. V. VI. VII. VIII. IX. X. XI. XII. XIII. XIV. XV.
39
Program America, A Christian Nation Latter-day Saint Concept of the Present Crisis
Opening Remarks (five minutes)Member of Relief Society Presidency. Hymn: "America"Congregation. Invocation. Musical Selection. ForewordA Young Woman. Talk: "The American Way of Life is the Christian Way of Life." (10 minutes)Member of Melchizedek Priesthood. America is great because of the ideals which the pioneers established for its homes, for its schools, and for its democratic community lifeThe American Citizens Handbook, p. 6. Singing: "Recessional," by DeKovenRelief Society Singing Mothers. Talk: "Our Church Stands Ever Ready to Defend the Cause of Freedom." (10 minutes)Relief Society Officer or Member. We wield not the bloody sword of man, brutal with conquest and drunk with power, but the white sword of God, flaming with His truth and healing while it slaysFrom "Credo," The American Citizens Handbook, p. 71. Reading: "Credo" by Elias Lieberman, The American Citizens Handbook, pages 70-71Soldier (if available). Singing: Patriotic NumberRelief Society Singing Mothers. Talk: "Our Boys As Missionary-Soldiers." (5 minutes)A Young Woman. I want every Latter-day Saint soldier to get down on his knees and pray God to help him to lead a clean life, and to preach the Gospel while he is in the Army.Pres. Heber J. Grant, "Conference Address," October 5, 1941. It grieves me deeply that it is necessary for thousands of our boys to go into the army. I hope and pray that they will go out with the missionary spirit, maintain their ideals, and come back to us as sweet and clean as when they went away.Pres. Heber J. Grant, "Conference Address," April 1942. "Our Flag" (short tribute)Boy Scout. Singing: "Star Spangled Banner"Congregation. ConclusionA Young Woman. America first, not merely in matters material, but in things of the spiritThe American Citizens Handbook, p. 61. Benediction.
Suggestions for Presenting the Program
The above program may be presented with or without special scenic and lighting effects and with or without special costumes according to the facilities of the various wards. The opening remarks by a member of the ward Relief Society presidency should briefly welcome those in attendance, point out the theme and objective of the program and explain that it is the outgrowth of one of the Relief Society courses of study of the past year, "What 'America' Means." She should also announce that the families of ward members who are in the service are being honored, giving the number of ward members who are in the service. It is suggested that the person who offers the invocation be advised in advance that the theme of the program is patriotic. The foreword to be given by a young woman (in patriotic costume if desired) is adapted from "You, at This Moment," The American Citizens Handbook, page 4, as follows: You, at this moment, have the honor to belong to a generation whose lips have been touched by fire. The human race now passes through one of its greatest crises. New ideas, new issues, a new call for men to carry on the work of righteousnessall these have come and are daily coming to you. When you are old, however, memory brings back this moment to your minds, let it be able to say to you "That was a great moment." This country in its crisis called for men and women of faith in God, of patience in service, of charity and of insight. I responded to the call however best I could. I gave myself to the Master, to the cause of humane and brave living. For the talk "The American Way of Life is the Christian Way of Life," see The American Citizens Handbook, page 6, et passim; also an address by Elder Stephen L Richards, Deseret News, Church Edition, June 6, 1942. The following excerpts from the address by Elder Richards are particularly appropriate for use in this talk: This is a Christian nation. America had its inception in Christian principles and doctrines; it was founded, nurtured and built by Christian men and women, Christian concepts have been incorporated into its basic laws and institutions and its loftiest ideals and purposes are but the expression of Christian virtue. We hear a lot of talk nowadays about the American way of life. What is this American way of life? Is it anything other than the Christian way of life? If it differs essentially, if it contemplates something other than Christian liberty under law, then I'm not so enthusiastic to have my sons fight for it. I believe, however, that you will find on analysis that this American way of life we prize so highly is in reality a Christian concept.... Restraints are supposed to be imposed by self-discipline rather than exterior force. People are free to make their own choices, endowed with a freedom that can be curtailed or limited only as may be necessary to assure the same freedom to all.... I make the assertion that we cannot hope to obtain that great spiritual support which we now so sorely need except upon the basis of truly Christian living. I think this to be so necessary because, as I interpret the issues at stake, we are really fighting a religious war. I think that our armies on the battlefields of the world and our civilian army here at home are really fighting to preserve the cause of Christ in the earth. I know they may not be conscious of such an objective. I wish they were. Since this talk is to be followed by the singing of "Recessional," it would be well for the speaker to refer to what usually happens when men forget their dependence upon God. She might even quote from the "Recessional," saying that it is to be sung following her talk. Following the rendition of the "Recessional," the talk "Our Church Stands Ever Ready to Preserve the Cause of Freedom," is presented. In this talk it is suggested that the speaker explain how our Church has always stood by our
40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
NOTES TO THE FIELD
country in her hour of need. Reference could be made to the Mormon Battalion and the history connected with it. At this point, someone in the background representing President Brigham Young might speak, first apparently addressing Captain Allen in these words: You shall have your battalion, Captain Allen, and if there are not young men enough we will take the old men, and if they are not enough we will take the women. Brigham Young might next appear to address members of the Mormon Battalion as follows: I want to say to every man, the constitution of the United States as framed by our Fathers was dictated, was revealed, was put into their hearts by the Almighty, and I tell you it is as good as ever I could ask for. I say unto you, magnify the laws. There is no law in the United States or in the Constitution but I am ready to make honorable. Following the statements by Brigham Young, the speaker might continue, pointing out that at the time of World War I, President Joseph F. Smith said: I believe it is righteous and just for every people to defend their own lives and their own liberties, and their own homes, with the last drop of their blood. I believe that the Lord will sustain any people trying to preserve their wives and their children from the ravages of war. At the conclusion of the talk "Our Church Stands Ever Ready to Defend the Cause of Freedom," the "Credo" by Elias Lieberman, The American Citizens Handbook, pp. 70-71, would be very effective read by a soldier, if one is availablethis to be followed by a patriotic number from the Relief Society Singing Mothers. The talk "Our Boys As Missionary-Soldiers," to be given by a young woman, could explain what some of the ideals are that can be fostered in service men by the girls at home. The following brief excerpt from a letter recently written to a mother by her son who is serving his country overseas might be read: I wish it were possible to tell you in person how much I depend upon my Heavenly Father for guidance and inspiration; how each day the Gospel means more and more to me. During these distressing times and periods of temptation the principles which you and father have taught me through deeds and words are always before me, and they serve as a real stabilizer. I feel I am able to be tolerant without compromising; to segregate the good from the evil, for I understand the source. Humbly I feel that through the help of the Lord and you dear ones at home I am able to be an influence for good. For the short tribute "Our Flag," which should precede the singing by the congregation of the "Star Spangled Banner," see the short article, "Respect the Flag," The American Citizens Handbook, p. 151. During this tribute, the flag, which has been in evidence during the evening, might be spotlighted and an electric fan used to make it wave as the congregation sings our national anthem. At the conclusion of the singing, while the audience remains standing, the same young woman who gave the foreword should give the conclusion, as follows: America first, not merely in matters material, but in things of the spirit. Not merely in science, inventions, motors, and skyscrapers, but also in ideals, principles, and character. Not merely in the calm assertion of rights, but in the glad assumption of duties. No flaunting her strength as a giant, but bending in helpfulness over a sick and wounded world like a Good Samaritan.... Not in treading again the old, worn, bloody, pathway which ends inevitably in chaos and disaster, but in blazing a new trail along which, please God, other nations will follow, into the new Jerusalem where wars shall be no more. Some day, some nation must take that pathunless we are to lapse into utter barbarismand that honor I covet for my beloved America. The American Citizens Handbook, p. 61. The speaker then looks heavenward as she voices this prayer by the poet Longfellow: Lord, let war's tempest cease, Fold the whole world in peace Under Thy wings. Make all the nations one, All hearts beneath the sun. Till Thou shalt reign alone, Great King of Kings.
Publication of Leads for Class Leaders Balance
THE Relief Society Magazine, September 1942, pp. 640, 655, announced that a new book, "Leads for Class Leaders," to be issued by the Relief Society General Board, would be ready for use sometime during the fall, 1942. The General Board sincerely regrets that due to unavoidable circumstances work on the book was delayed, making publication impossible during the fall of 1942 as announced. It is the present plan of the General Board to issue the book in time for use during the next educational year, which begins in October 1943.
It is suggested that no closing song be sung and that the benediction follow Longfellow's prayer. The estimated time required for the presentation of the complete program as outlined is one and one-half hours. It is suggested that wards desiring to give less time to the presentation of the program either omit the talk, "Our Boys As Missionary-Soldiers," or combine its message with the talk, "Our Church Stands Ever Ready to Defend the Cause of Freedom." The tribute to the flag might also be eliminated in the interest of time. Suggestions for appropriate musical numbers will be found in The Relief Society Magazine, December 1942, pp. 868-870.
Elder Stephen L Richards Lectures Over KSL
BEGINNING Sunday evening, December 27, 1942, and continuing each Sunday for several weeks, Elder Stephen L Richards, of the Council of the Twelve, is delivering on the regular Sunday evening broadcasting time of the Church, over radio station KSL, at 9:15 M. W. T., a series of lectures entitled "The Church in War and Peace." The broadcast originates in the Tabernacle on Temple Square. Special vocal music is under the direction of J. Spencer Cornwall, director of the Tabernacle choir, with Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle organist, at the console of the great organ. This broadcast should interest and value to all Church members inasmuch as the lectures give Gospel interpretations of present-day situations.
NOTES TO THE FIELD 43
Message of First Presidency Published In Booklet Form
THE message from the First Presidency delivered in the Tabernacle, Saturday, October 3, 1942, during the opening session of the 113th Semi-Annual General Conference of the Church, has been published in convenient booklet form, size 3x4", and distributed to Latter-day Saint families throughout the Church, to missionaries, and to Latter-day Saint men in the service. The General Board expresses its appreciation to the First Presidency for making this important message available in such convenient and attractive form. Relief Society members are urged to read the message carefully and thoughtfully, and it is suggested that mothers discuss it with their families. The counsel and guidance given on drink and the Word of Wisdom, chastity, parenthood, unity, and the war are of vital importance to us today. The message to the men in the armed service, and the blessing, commendation, and comfort given to officers and members of the Church are of inestimable worth.
Relief Society Presidents to Encourage Use of New Book, "Recreation in the Home"
RELIEF SOCIETY presidents are requested to cooperate in the distribution and use of the new book "Recreation in the Home" recently published by the General Boards of the auxiliary organizations of the Church. Coming at a time when the use of automobiles is restricted and when other conditions incident to the war make it necessary for us to be resourceful and economical in our recreational activities, the book meets a present-day need. It contains many new games and many old favorites, and is fertile in suggestions for many other types of recreation. Games and other activities included in the book can be played and enjoyed by large and small groups of all ages, with a minimum amount of equipment, work, and expense required. To aid in the distribution and use of the book, ward Relief Society presidents are asked to announce its publication at one of the regular Relief Society meetings, preferably a work-and-business meeting, calling attention to its content and its value for use in the home and for larger groups. It is also recommended that the book be used in planning Relief Society parties or other social activities, thus demonstrating its value. Relief Society officers and members should not only know that there is such a book, but should own and use it. "Recreation in the Home" may be purchased from the Relief Society General Board, 28 Bishop's Building, or from the general offices of the other Church auxiliary organizations. Price 25 cents, postpaid.
The Mormon Handicraft Shop
THE Mormon Handicraft Shop is your shop, established to help Relief Society women. Are you supporting it? There are three ways in which you can help the Shop: First, the Shop must have articles to sell, such as pillowcases with lovely white crocheted edges, quilts, attractive aprons, exquisite clothing for babies, useful hot pads, fine handkerchiefs, etc. When articles are beautifully made, of suitable, good material, and of desired colors, they will sell readily. The Shop can now use many such articles. You can encourage women to make these lovely articles to be sold. Have you found that lonely sister or the one who is homebound and have you encouraged her to make some lovely and useful article? This interest would mean a great deal in her life. How about the sister who needs to help herself financially, who would appreciate having a little extra money of her own to spend? This is made possible by sending her articles to be sold. The second way in which you may help the Shop is to buy there whenever possible. When you need a distinctive handmade gift, reasonably priced, it can be found at the Shop. Remember, this is a day of advertising. Never miss an opportunity to tell your neighbors and friends about Mormon Handicraft. Third, you may help the Shop by paying the annual membership fee of $1. Many of our wards are paying this yearly fee, and in so doing are helping to support this worthy project. May we add your ward to our list of Mormon Handicraft supporters? We feel, especially, that wards in close proximity to the Shop should support it in every possible way.
Auxiliary Leaders Protest Picturization of Smoking and Drinking
UNDER date of November 14, 1942, the following letter signed by the general presidencies and superintendencies of the Church auxiliary organizations, was sent to Mr. Will H. Hays, of the nation's film industry, protesting the picturization of smoking, drinking, and vulgarity in films. These auxiliary leaders represent a total active membership of 747,688 men, women, and children. The increasing use in motion pictures of tobacco and alcoholic beverages is alarming, and it is in recognition of the effect of this upon youth that the auxiliary leaders ask that an effort be made to eliminate these items from the films as far as possible:
Mr. Will H. Hays 28 West 44th Street New York, New York
Dear Mr. Hays:
For some time the auxiliary organizations of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have been alarmed at the increasing use in motion pictures of alcoholic beverages and tobacco. By the constant presentation of drinking and smoking on the screen the wholesome resistance of youth and childhood is being broken down.
November 14, 1942
44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
NOTES TO THE FIELD 45
Drama is one of the cultural fields with which we have full sympathy and in which some of our organizations work extensively among the young people. We know of the immense influence of dramatic representation on the human mind. It is conceded that in some situations the use of tobacco and liquor might legitimately give a truer picture of life, although our own standards lead us to ban these articles from the stage. Incidentally, we have been pleased to see that plays do not suffer thereby. A talented group of professional and amateur players recently put on "The Man Who Came to Dinner," without smoking, drinking, profanity or vulgarity, and without lessening, strange as it may seem, the humor in the slightest. We know, therefore, that a great decrease in the use of tobacco and alcohol on the stage can be accomplished if there is the will to do it, and we earnestly petition you to set standards that will reduce these harmful things to the minimum. Although most states, perhaps all, have statutes forbidding the use of tobacco or alcoholic drinks by minors, yet whenever a drink is taken in a play, or cigarette lighted, especially by actors who represent to the young patrons almost everything desirable in life, a definite impact is made on their resistance to observe the law. The liquor and tobacco interests know the power of such example and of course do everything to extend the use of these articles in the business of the play. It is most unfortunate that the great institution of motion pictures, with its immeasurable educational and character forming influence, should be used to promote this evil. That is truly a breach of its great trust. Our responsibility to childhood and youth besides giving them the spiritual training to prepare them for eternal life, includes the endeavor to help them be healthy, temperate, upright and clean. Alcohol and tobacco, with their degenerative effects endanger both objectives. We commend you for all the fine things that you have donethe elimination of profanity, for example. And now in the name of our youth and of all American youth we appeal to you, who bear so much moral responsibility in this phase of our recreational life, to look into this situation and answer to your conscience as the good American that you are. We believe the wrong done to impressionable young people will tend to debauch individuals and bring about a poorer grade of American manhood and womanhood. Those who love America will support you in the action we plead with you to take.
GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY, By Amy Brown Lyman, President, Representing 115,015 mothers
GENERAL SUPERINTENDENCY OF THE SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION, By George D. Pyper, General Superintendent, Representing 360,337 members of all ages.
GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF THE YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASS'N., By Lucy Grant Cannon, President, Representing 76,867 young women.
GENERAL SUPERINTENDENCY OF THE YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASS'N. By George O. Morris, General Superintendent, Representing 65,511 young men
GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF THE PRIMARY ASS'N., By May Green Hinckley, Superintendent, Representing 129,958 children and teachers.
The Church Campaign Committee, of which Elder Joseph F. Merrill is chairman, recommends that the above letter be followed up in the stakes, wards, and missions by personal letters from leaders and other individuals, and that contact be made with managers of show houses requesting them to write to Mr. Hays supporting the position that has been taken by the leaders of the Church auxiliaries.
Point Rationing
Note: The following information from Justin C. Stewart, Utah State Information Officer, Office of Price Administration, is of interest to Relief Society women:
WITH the introduction of "point rationing" early in 1943, consumers must learn to shop with a new kind of currencyration points. This will not take the place of our accustomed money and tax tokens, but will be in addition to them. When buying, the housewife must know the ration point value of each commodity as well as the money value. Point rationing will be accomplished through the use of War Ration Book No. 2 which will be issued to all consumers shortly after the first of the year. It will be used to ration groups of related or similar commodities which can be substituted for one another in actual use. It will not replace the straight coupon system for such goods as sugar, because that system is more appropriate for standardized commodities used by everyone and of which there is a large enough supply to give everyone a usable share. Cereals might be used as an example of how point rationing will work, although there is no present plan to ration them. Oatmeal, cornflakes, wheatflakes, and branflakes are related commodities which can be substituted for one another in the daily diet. Suppose that there were a shortage of branflakes and the Government was to try to ration them as it rations sugarthat is, an equal amount for everyone each month. Because of the shortage, and because branflakes would thus be allotted to people who don't buy them regularly at all, the result would be a very small share for each individual, just
Page 46
a few ounces a month, too little to do anyone any good. This also might mean a buying rush on cornflakes by those who usually buy larger amounts of branflakes than would be allowed by the ration. Or it might mean a rush to buy oatmeal or wheatflakes, and thus the supply of these cereals might quickly disappear from the stores, and many people wouldn't get any cereals at all. This illustrates that while dividing the supply of any one of the cereals would give each individual only a small equal share, dividing the total supply of all of them would give each individual enough for his basic cereal needs. If we were rationing cereals under the point system, all types could be purchased by using the same ration coupons. However, each kind of cereal would be given a point value. A low-point value would be given to the more plentiful items and a high-point value to the less plentiful ones. Each person would then be allowed, for example, 48 points to buy cereal during the month. Suppose cornflakes are plentiful and are assigned a value of one point per pound; the supply of wheatflakes is a little less plentiful and is assigned two points per pound; and branflakes very scarce, hardly available at all, are assigned eight points per pound. In this example, the individual could buy two pounds of cornflakes and surrender only two of his 48 ration points. On the other hand, if he purchased two pounds of branflakes, he would have to surrender 16 of the 48. Thus consumers will be discouraged from buying the high-point value commodities that are scarce and will be encouraged to buy the low-point value commodities of which there are large supplies. The Government will be able to change the point value from time to time according to the supply of the various commodities, thus insuring the fairest possible distribution of goods. Ration Book No. 2 will have stamps of two colors, blue and red. One color might be used for meat. The other color for some other group or related commodities, such as cereals. Each stamp will have a letter of the alphabet marked on it"A" through "Z." These letters will be used to indicate the time in which the stamps should be used. There will be four "A" stamps, four "B" stamps, four "C" stamps, etc. One of the "A" stamps will be marked with the figure 1; one of them, the figure 2; one, 5; and one, 8. The numbers will indicate the point value of the stamps. Thus the four "A" stamps, which will be numbered 1, 2, 5, 8, will have a total point value of 16; the four "B" stamps a total point value of 16; the four "C" stamps a total point value of 16, etc. Suppose the A, B, and C stamps are allowed for the first month of cereal rationing. We should have a total point value of 16 "A" stamps, 16 "B" stamps, 16 "C" stamps, a grand total of ration points for the month of 48. The following month, stamps marked D, E, and F might be used, thus giving a 48 point ration for the second month. In this way, each consumer may "spend" his points to buy any of the items in the point ration group in any way he likes, but when he has "spent" all of his points for the month, he will not be able to buy any of these items until the next ration period. Those who choose to buy commodities having a low-point value will get more for their ration than those who choose to use up their points on high-point value commodities. When buying, therefore, consumers must ask themselves not only whether they can afford the dollars and cents price of rationed commodities, but also whether they can afford to "spend" their points in that particular way. This will require careful budgeting of both money and ration points. At the same time, planning must not be too rigid. There is no possibility in wartime of guaranteeing that the storekeeper will have all of the favorite standbys on hand at all times. There may be a smaller supply than usual or a larger demand than was expected. It may be found that some of the favorite items in a group are not "best buys" in ration value. In that case, in order to get the most out of her family's point allotment, the housewife will find it desirable at times to buy "second choices."
THE SUCCESSFUL WAY
Doing an injury puts you below your enemy; revenging one makes you but even with him; forgiving it sets you above him.Benjamin Franklin.
FROM THE FIELD
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420.
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL OBSERVANCES
Juab Stake (Nephi, Utah)
FOLLOWING is an account of the centennial observance of the Juab Stake Relief Society, of which Chloe N. Bailey is president, which appeared in the Nephi Times News: "The observance of the Relief Society centennial was held in local wards of Juab Stake on March 17. Through the courtesy of the General Board of Relief Society, a centennial gift was presented to each ward in the form of a phonograph record containing centennial messages from President Heber J. Grant and President Amy Brown Lyman. "The North Ward Relief Society planted a tree in accordance with the recommendation of the General Board. A short program was given in connection with the tree-planting on Tuesday afternoon, March 17. Talks were given by A. E. Smith, bishop, and Robert P. Garrett, counselor. The record sent by the General Board was played. The tree, a cutleaf weeping white birch, was planted on the North Ward Relief Society grounds. "On Tuesday evening, a pageant, "The Gate Beautiful" was presented by the North Ward Relief Society to members of the three Nephi wards. The pageant was under the supervision of President Mary E. Boswell and was directed by Ellen
Page 48
Garrett, Fern B. Garrett, and Minnie J. Smith. Music was furnished by the Monson sisters of American Fork, a quartet consisting of Afton Lambert, Emma C. Cannon, Eugene Beck, and Nello Sudweeks, which sang appropriate selections, and solos were given by Verda Beck and Emma C. Cannon. Mrs. Douglas Jones was the reader, and members of the cast were Relief Society women of the North Ward. The pageant was a most creditable performance. "The Nephi Ward observed the centennial with an appropriate program which consisted of an account of the first Relief Society organization given by Birdie C. Jones; humorous selections by Florence R. Winn; a duet by Susannah and May Wilkey; cello solo, Vivian Hoyt; tribute to former presidents of the Nephi Ward Relief Society, given by Priscilla Wilson. Each president was presented with a flower. A reading, 'I Am Proud' was given by Mrs. Douglas Jones. Mrs. Laura B. Brough made an interesting report of changes in transportation, dress, home conveniences and status of women during the one hundred years since the founding of Relief Society. A chorus of Singing Mothers rendered two selections.... "In the South Ward an address of welcome was given by counselor NOTES FROM THE FIELD 49 CENTENNIAL PAGEANT, "THE GATE BEAUTIFUL" Woodruff Ward Relief Society, Snowflake Stake Jennie Hobbs. Former stake presidents, Addie Cazier, Unity Chappell, Maude Forrest, and Edna J. Cazier gave brief reports of the accomplishmerts of the Relief Society of Juab Stake under their respective administrations. A piano duet was given by Julia and Mignon Pyper, and Zelma Golden and Ida Memmott sang a duet. A centennial play 'Is It Possible?' was presented under the direction of Louise C. Vickers. Flowers were presented to the former stake and ward presidents and counselors, to the oldest visiting teacher, the youngest members of the Relief Society, and to the mother with the largest family. At the close of the program, refreshments were served. "The Mona Ward observed the - centennial by a social held in the afternoon for all women of the ward, at which time the record from the General Board was heard and birthday cake was served to all present. In the evening, the play 'Is it Possible?' and a pageant 'By Their Fruits Ye Shall Know Them' were presented by the women of the ward. The Singing Mothers furnished the music for the performance. The play and pageant were under the direction of Lizzie W. Kay and Erma Keyte." Snowflake Stake (Snowflake, Arizona) LOVINA E. LARSON, president of Woodruff Ward Relief Society, sent the accompanying picture of a beautiful and impressive pageant presented February 13, 1942, at the ward centennial celebration. It was entitled "The Gate Beautiful." 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 SINGING MOTHERS' CHORUS, NORTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CAST OF CENTENNIAL PAGEANT, "MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS OF THE AGES," IDAHO FALLS FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, NORTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE NOTES FROM THE FIELD North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho Falls, Idaho) ELLA A. EVANS, second counselor in the Relief Society presidency of the North Idaho Falls Stake, submitted the following report of centennial activities in this stake: "We wish to report to you some of the centennial activities of our stake. We presented the cantata 'Resurrection Morning,' by B. Cecil Gates, as a stake unit of one hundred Singing Mothers. The chorus furnished the music for our stake conference. The cantata, conducted by Mrs. O. D. Hendrickson with Mrs.. J. O. Mellor as accompanist, was presented Sunday afternoon, March 15, 1942, in the stake tabernacle. It was very well rendered to a large audience. We had members participating from eleven of the twelve wards and branchesone branch being sixty-three miles away. We held a prayer meeting with all chorus members before the concert, and then presented cach member with a golden boutonniere, and the chorister and organist with a blue and gold corsage. "At this meeting we displayed the scrapbooks made by eleven of our twelve wards and branches. In their arrangement the books showed much originality, artistic ability, and historical worth. A volume of Gospel Standards by President Heber J. Grant was presented, to the centennial chairman of the Ucon Ward as a prize for the best scrapbook. "On Monday, March 16, we left daffodils with twelve Latter-day Saint mothers, reminding them of the centennial observance the next day and of the time of the radio 51 broadcasts from Salt Lake City. From the interest shown by these mothers, we certainly felt well repaid for the calls we made. "On March 17, the Idaho Falls Fourth Ward held a special centennial program with President Luna Norton and counselors in charge of arrangements. Under the direction of Mrs. Jacob H. Trayner, with Mr. Trayner as reader, a pageant in twelve scenes, entitled 'Mothers and Daughters of the Ages,' was presented with special costumes and lighting effects to a full house. Mrs. J. O. Mellor, pianist, and Dorothy Burnham, violinist, rendered appropriate music during the pageant. Twenty-six persons represented the various characters portrayed. One scene showed a reproduction in giant size of the cover of the January 1942 issue of Reproduction of cover of January 1942 Relief Society Magazine, used in pageant by Idaho Falls Fourth Ward Relief Society 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 CENTENNIAL TREE-PLANTING CEREMONY ON NEW IDAHO FALLS TEMPLE GROUNDS, NOVEMBER 4, 1942 Members and officials of the North Idaho Falls, Idaho Falls, and Yellowstone Stakes participated. The Relief Society Magazine, which was a picture of the proposed centennial memorial campanile to be erected on Temple Square in Salt Lake City. "The Osgood Ward made nearly 200 handprinted programs for their celebration. The entire evening performance in this ward was very fine and well presented. "All Relief Society organizations in our stake participated in a centennial tree-planting service in their respective wards, using the centen-. Nial markers." On November 4, 1942, members and officials of the North Idaho Falls, Idaho Falls, and Yellowstone Stakes participated in a tree-planting ceremony at the new Idaho Falls Temple grounds. A beautiful blue spruce was planted on the northeast corner of the grounds, and a special marker was placed nearby. An excerpt from an account of this activity in the Idaho Falls Post-Register of November 12 states: The following program was presented: community singing conducted by Mrs. J. O. Mellor; invocation by Mrs. Grant M. Andrus; address of welcome by president Ethel Miles [North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society president]; selection by a trumpet trio composed of Don Julian, Ray Bennett and Fred Haroldsen; a talk, "Special Thoughts on Trees," by Mrs. Joseph Brunt; dedicatory prayer by Joseph A. Brunt. Mr. Brunt, representing the North Idaho Falls Stake, J. W. Telford, representing the Idaho Falls Stake, and Horace A. Hess of the Yellowstone Stake,. Assisted in placing the soil on the tree. Mrs. Miles, President Cora Christensen of the Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, past stake presidents, and honorary officers also participated NOTES FROM THE FIELD in the ceremonies. The program was under the direction -of Mrs. G. S. Evans, assisted by Robert F. Woller, temple gardener. Sister Evans stated in a subsequent letter of November 23 that, "We are very thankful to Brother Woller, the temple gardner, and Brother Irvin T. Nelson, Church landscape architect, for assisting us and granting us this privilege. We had had stormy weather for several days, but the morning [of November 4] was clear, although cold. The program was short but well attended by approximately 100 people, and everyone seemed thrilled with the occasion. After the ceremony, the members who wished to go were escorted through the temple. We surely felt that the efforts were worth while." Seattle Stake (Seattle, Washington) HE Bremerton Ward Relief Society reported its centennial birthday party, held March 17, 1942, as follows: "The ward chapel and recreation hall were decorated in the Relief Society colorsblue and gold. The opening feature of the celebration was a tree-planting ceremony, at which time we planted a tree on the chapel grounds. Appropriate remarks were made by Bishop John J. Fry, and the song "Trees was sung by Ruth Fry. "After this ceremony, everyone went into the chapel, where an impressive birthday cake held a place of attention, and a candle-lighting ceremony was given in honor of new members.. Our president, Chloe Later, presided, with Linda Eddington, second counselor, and Bertha 53 McCleary, coordinator, assisting her. Each new member of the past year was presented with a lovely corsage. "Another feature of the evening's entertainment was a cantata entitled 'Messengers of Mercy,' by Gladys Rich and Minnie D. Warner, presented by the Singing Mothers under the direction of Sarah Hickman, with Mercia Haneberg as accompanist. A very lovely pageant, 'The Guardianship of Life,' was presented under the direction of Rose Willey and President Chloe Later. It had a cast of about twenty people. Violet Nerden, soloist, was accompanied by Alta Larson. Thelma Higbee was the reader. "One feature of the program, the words of greeting by recording from President Heber J. Grant and President Amy Brown Lyman, was greatly appreciated. Ethelyn Lay and Chloe Stayner had charge of refreshments. 'The one hundred people present declared that the party was one of the loveliest ones of the year." Los Angeles Stake (Los Angeles, California) THE Beverly Hills Ward Relief Society, of which Estella C. Dalton was president, presented a unique centennial program using letters, tableaux, and a cantata to depict "Relief Society Beginnings" and "A Century of Achievement." Helen Cottam, secretary, reported the observance as follows: "Letters narrating 'Relief Society Beginnings' were written for the occasion by one of our members, Isabel Vine Broadbeck. They were tead by a reader dressed in a typical 1842 costume, who was shown writing them in her Nauvoo home. Be- tween the reading of each letter, our Relief Society chorus, assisted by Lola Brimley, director, Mary Rex, accompanist, and Jessie Turner, soloist, sang selections from the cantata 'Messengers of Mercy,' by Gladys Rich and Minnie D. Warner. In conjunction with the readings and the rendition of the cantata, tableaux in costume and with stage properties were, presented to show scenes related to the letters." An original poem, "A Century of Achievement," written by Alva Wilson, was given by two women, Emma Gardner representing Emma Smith, and Ruby Armstrong representing a modern Relief Society president. This was given just before the final tableau depicting "Women of Service in 1942." Estella C. Dalton, former president, is now president of the Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, and Frances Willardson is president of the Beverly Hills Ward. South Sanpete Stake (Manti, Utah) CLARICE B. TUTTLE, former president of the South Sanpete Stake Relief Society, submitted a newspaper report of the very successful centennial observance held by the three wards of Manti, and also a report from the three Ephraim wards. The Manti Messenger contained the following account of the Manti celebration: Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday [March 15, 16, 17, 1942] were gala days for the Relief Society organizations of Manti, culminating years of untiring and ceaseless effort directed toward building a bigger and better organization, an effort which has been crowned with glorious success. Officers and teachers have worked energetically to prepare the three-day celebration in honor of the centennial observance of the L. D. S. Relief Society. Their efforts resulted in one of Manti's most elaborate celebrations, enjoyed by old and young of the entire community. Commencing Sunday night, a cantata, "Resurrection Morning," written by B. Cecil Gates, was presented to the general public by the Singing Mothers of the three wards, under the direction of Cleo Christensen, with Mrs. Louise Hulme at the piano. Mrs. Bernice B. Keeler and Mrs. Leona F. Wintch were the readers. Before the cantata, Mrs. Clarice B. Tuttle... Gave a speech of welcome. A salute to the Relief Society was given by President Leland E. Anderson, the response by Mrs. Merle Poulson, president of the Center Ward Relief Society. Mrs. Viola Tatton was in charge of decorations. Monday afternoon a reception and program was held in the Center Ward Chapel, with so many in attendance that benches and chairs would not suffice. A fashion show depicting styles from 1842 to 1942 was directed by Mrs. Ruby K. Riddle.... Mrs. Alfreda Nielson was in charge of the music and refreshments. Monday night a married folks' dance was held in the Armada. It was one of the biggest dances of the year, and one of the most enjoyable. Many of the dancers came in costumes, which varied in kind and color from the humble overall to the dignified Prince Albert, and from the house dress of years gone by to the colorful gown of the gay nineties. Tuesday morning, a throng of people visited the temple, where the Singing Mothers furnished the music. Tuesday afternoon and evening in the Manti Theatre a pageant, "By Their Fruits Ye Shall Know Them," written by Moroni Smith of Richfield, was presented. Mrs. Ada Dyreng was in charge of the pageant, assisted by Mrs. Edna Allred and Mrs. Blanche Garbe. Taking part in the pageant were sixty people. Singing for the pageant was done by the Singing Mothers directed by Mrs. Cleo Christensen. The three-day Ephraim observance was also very successful. The first session was held Sunday evening, March 15, in the tabernacle, under the direction of Anna Rasmusson 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 35 FIRST EPISODE OF PAGEANT, "BY THEIR FRUITS YE SHALL KNOW THEM," MANTI WARDS, SOUTH SANPETE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Leona F, Wintch, Relief Society General Board member, is in front row, center, representing Emma Smith; on her right is Winston Crawford representing Joseph Smith e FOURTH EPISODE OF PAGEANT, "BY THEIR FRUITS YE SHALL KNOW THEM," INCLUDING SINGING MOTHERS WHO SANG FOR THE PAGEANT of the stake board. Seventy-five Singing Mothers wearing white blouses made an impressive sight when they sang "Resurrection Morning." They were assisted by Melba Armstrong, conductor, and Phylis Armstrong, accompanist. 'The stage setting was appropriate for the rendition of the cantata. The bishops of the Ephraim North, South and West Wards offered the prayers and also assisted backstage. Under the direction of Olivia Anderson of the stake board, general chairman, the activities on Monday afternoon featured a relic display, modeling of old hats and costumes of long ago, dancing of the minuet, and singing of old-time songs. "Sister-cake" with its cardamon flavor, peppermint candy, dried apples, and punch were served by ladies in costume. Tuesday, March 17, members from the Ephraim West Ward attended the morning session at the Manti Temple. In the afternoon, three inspirational episodes were enacted under the supervision of Vera Erickson of the stake board. They were: first, dramatization of the organization meeting of Relief Society; second, an episode emphasizing the importance of attendance at Relief Society, in which was dramatized the story of two young women who never 'found time to support Relief Society; and, third, a pantomime of nations coming through a membership arch. After this episode, candles on a centennial cake were lighted. This cake was made of seven pounds of popcorn. According to the report from the Ephraim wards, the costs incurred in conducting this three-day celebration were very low. Anna Rasmusson is now president of the South Sanpete Stake. CENTENNIAL CANDLE-LIGHTING CEREMONY Brigham City Third Ward Relief Society, Box Elder Stake 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 DEPARTMENT Sheology and Sestimony "Articles of Faith," By James E. Talmage Lesson 15 The Book of Mormon (Continued) Article 8: "... We also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God." (Tuesday, April 6, 1943) Condensation of Chapter XV of Articles of Faith by Talmage (This condensation is placed in the Magazine in the hope that it will result in more class members familiarizing themselves with the lesson.) The Authenticity of the Book of Mormon The authenticity of the Book of Mormon constitutes our most important consideration of the work. Announcing to the. World the message of a departed people, written by way of commandment, and by the spirit of prophecy and revelation, this book is entitled to the most thorough and impartial examination. The Latter-day Saints base their belief in the authenticity of the book on the following proofs which will be discussed: 1. The Nephite and the Jewish scriptures are found to agree in matters of tradition, history, doctrine, and prophecy which the separate records treat. In a careful comparison of the prophecies of the Bible with corresponding predictions contained in the Book of Mormon, each of the records is corroborative of the other. 2. Ancient prophecy has been literally fulfilled in the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. Enoch (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:59- 62), David (Psalms 85:11), Isaiah (Isaiah 45:8), and Ezekiel (Ezekiel 37), as well as other prophets knew and prophecied of the book. Ezekiel 37:15-17, reads: "The word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions [signifying the Bible]: then take another stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel his companions [signifying the Book of Mormon]: And join them one to another into one stick; and they shall become one in thine hand." 3. The internal consistency of the Book of Mormon sustains belief in Page 57 its divine origin. The parts bear evidence of having been written at different times and under widely varying conditions. The book maintains consistency throughout; no contradictions, no disagreements have been pointed out. 4. Among the most conclusive proofs of the authenticity of the book is that furnished by the demonstrated truth of its contained prophecies. The predictions contained within the Book of Mormon may be classed as (a) prophecies relating to the time covered by the book itself, the fulfillment of which is recorded therein; and (b) prophecies relative to times beyond the limits of the history chronicled in the book. Prophecies of the first class named are of minor value as proof of the authenticity of the work; nevertheless, to the conscientious reader the genuineness of the book will be made apparent in the literal realization of the numerous and varied predictions relating to the fate, then future, of the people whose history is given in the record. Prophecies of the second class are numerous and explicit. Many of them have special reference to this last dispensationthe Dispensation of the Fullness of Times. Among the most remarkable Book of Mormon predictions incident to the last dispensation are those that relate to its own coming forth and the effect of its publication amongst mankind. Joseph's great prophetic utterance is to be found in part in II Nephi 3:11-13. The literal fulfillment of this prophecy in the bringing forth of the Book of Mormon through Joseph Smith is well evidenced. That the new scriptures would be rejected by the Gentiles was known by Nephi, who recorded this: "A Bible! A Bible! We have got a Bible, and there cannot be any more Bible." (II Nephi 29:3; read the entire chapter.) 5. The archeology and ethnology of the Western Continent contribute some corroborative evidence in support of the Book of Mormon. Among the most significant of the discoveries respecting the aboriginal inhabitants of the land, are the following: (a) that America was peopled in very ancient times, probably soon after the building of the Tower of Babel; (b) that the continent has been successfully occupied by different peoples, at least by two classes, or so-called races, at widely separated periods; (c) that the aboriginal inhabitants came from the East, probably from Asia, and that the latter occupants, or those of the second period, were closely allied to, if not identified with, the Israelites; (d) that the existing native races of America form a common stock. It is very apparent that each of these discoveries is fully sustained by the Book of Mormon record. Let not the reader of the Book of Mormon content himself with such evidences as have been cited concerning the authenticity of this reputed scripture. There is promised a surer and more effectual means of ascertaining the truth or falsity of this volume. Like other scriptures, the Book of Mormon is to be comprehended through the spirit of the scripture, and this is obtainable only as a gift from God. But this gift is promised unto all who shall seek it. Then to all let us commend the counsel of the last writer in the volume, Moroni, solitary scribe who
58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
LESSON DEPARTMENT
sealed the book: "And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with
59
real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." (Moroni 10:4-5)
LESSON PLAN
Lesson Aim: To prove the authenticity of the Book of Mormon
Suggested Material Outline
I. Proofs of the authenticity of the Book of Mormon A. Agreement of the Bible and the Book of Mormon
1. Records agree in matters of tradition, history, doctrine and prophecy (See Appendix 14:5) B. Prophecies concerning the Book of Mormon
2. Ezekiel's vision most significant (Ezekiel 37)
3. Isaiah's prediction literally fulfilled (Isaiah 29:11-12) C. Internal construction of the Book of Mormon This concerns the doctrinal unity of the book, its consistency of language, its general harmony and Joseph Smith's inability to compose such a work without divine help. D. Book of Mormon predictions
4. Prophecies fulfilled in the Book of Mormon
5. Future prophecies not yet fulfilled (See II Nephi 3:11-13; II Nephi 29 E. Archaeology of the Western Continent
6. Value of external evidence Sometimes we are inclined to lay too much stress on external evidence, as if it were conclusive, whereas it only shows a tendency in the direction of the truth of personal testimony.
7. Evidence of American antiquities a. Civilization here before discovery of America by Columbus b. This civilization comparable to that which existed in the Old World c. Monuments are found where Book of Mormon requires them to be d. Evidences of successive civilizations in ancient America F. The classes of American aborigines (1.) Archaic (2.) Toltec-Mayan (3.) Aztec
Suggested Method Outline
I. It is suggested that class members who are capable and who do research well, be assigned, at least a month in advance of presentation, the five major sections of this lesson outline. In making such assignments, it is suggested that the class leader bear in mind the following procedure: A. Enough time should be spent with the class member assigned the task to make the assignment very clear. If necessary, the assignment should be written out by the class leader, and then the member should be given time to ask questions concerning her assignment. B. Class leaders should make the time limit explicit. This is very important if the lesson is fully covered in the time allotted. C. Class leaders should be responsible for seeing that material for use in the preparation of assignments is available. D. Some follow-through on the assignment should be made by the class leader to check on the progress of each assignment, and this should be done before the actual day of presentation. II. Class leaders should allow themselves time to summarize the major points of the lesson in order to make a unified whole and to increase learning. Part of this summary could be gathered from the class by skillful questioning. (Consult any book on teaching methods for help on how to formulate questions. If a blackboard is available, it would be helpful to list thereon the major points covered in the lesson.)
References Roberts, B. H., A Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. I. Talmage, James E., Sunday Night Talks. Thompson, E. H., People of the Serpent. Talmage, James E., Articles of Faith, "Appendix" 15, Notes Relating to Chap. 15
Visiting Teachers Messages to the Home
Lesson 7 Care of the Body as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, April 6, 1943)
LATTER-DAY SAINTS attach great importance to the proper care of the body. No one can attain his highest usefulness, happiness, or intelligence, who injures his body by improper living. In the Doctrine and Covenants there are many revelations regarding the human body and its importance as an instrument of the mind. "The spirit and the body," we are informed, "are the soul of man." (Section 88:15) And in another place we read that the spirit manifests itself through the body. Therefore, the physical condition of the body either facilitates or hampers expression of the spirit. Such things as food, clothing, proper housing and living conditions
60 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
LESSON DEPARTMENT
are "given to strengthen the body and enliven the soul." (Doctrine and Covenants 59:19) Section 88:124 gives instructions for the maintenance of the body. "Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean;... Cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated." Then there is the Word of Wisdom (Section 89), which offers specific instructions: tobacco, "strong or hot drinks," excessive meat eating are "not good for man;" while fruit in the season thereof is good for the use of man, and wheat is specially "for man." Obedience to these teachings is attended by certain blessings. There are also revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants which indicate that the care of the body is a religious duty. The attitude of the mind and the emotions one cultivates have an effect on the health of the body. This fact was enunciated by Jesus and it
*Discourses of Brigham Young, page 283, makes clear that President Brigham Young regarded tea and coffee among the hot drinks referred to in Doctrine and Covenants, Section 89.
61
finds ample justification, if any is needed, in what we know from the study of the body. Christ assures us that fear, anger, hate, with kindred emotions, are a source of injury. He puts it theologically: "Thou shalt not be angry with thy brother." But science gives us the reason. Says Herbert Spencer, in his Data of Ethics: "From biology we learn that no act should be committed or thought entertained which weakens the body, for thereby the human being is rendered unfit for the duties of life." Obedience to the laws of health, both those revealed through religion and those discovered by man in his search for truth, express our faith in the teachings of the Church so far as concerns the sanctity of the body.
Discussion
1. What should be the attitude of all citizens toward community health?
2. In what ways can women cooperate with the civil authorities in maintaining healthy conditions in the community?
3. Discuss Doctrine and Covenants 88:124, with regard to proper rest; also Gospel Doctrine by Joseph F. Smith, page 461.
4. What are the physical effects of fear, anger, hate?
5. What are the blessings promised those who obey the Word of Wisdom?
Work-and-Business New-fashioned Thrift
Lesson 6 Clean Things Last Longer (For optional use on Tuesday, March 9, 1943)
NOT only is "cleanliness next to Godliness," but it is also economical. It is easier to keep clean than to make clean. Dirt wears things out, whether they be fabric, wood, plaster, leather, or fur. Good materials are entitled to good care. Waiting until they are very dirty before cleaning them means added rubbing and scrubbing that wears things out as much as does the dirt that is ground into them in the first place. While it is necessary to keep things clean to conserve them, it is also necessary in cleaning them to use the process best suited to the material or fabric involved. Some fabrics take kindly to mild soap and water, while others require dry-cleaning agents. The difficulty today is in knowing the material with which one is dealing. Rayon, the versatile fiber, is woven into a variety of fabrics; and since these fabrics are so extensively used, it is important to have a knowledge of their care. Some rayon fibers lose their strength when wet; others are dissolved when cleaning agents are used; and some are melted by the use of too much heat. The cleaning of any material containing rayon fiber depends on the nature of the weave as much as the fiber itself. Rough or creped surfaces should usually be dry cleaned. If material can be washed, the kind of soap, the temperature of the water used, the handling while wet, and the length of time given for drying are important items to remember. All fabrics of rayon, silk, and wool, whether used for clothing, upholstering, curtains, draperies, or rugs, require a mild soap, luke-warm water, little handling with no harsh rubbing or wringing. A long time is required for properly drying all of these fabrics except pure silk, which dries quickly. The amount of soap required will depend upon the harshness of the water, and whether or not a softening agent is used. Trisodium phosphate is a good detergent. Sheer fabrics when washed should be rolled in a soft absorbent cloth, such as a turkish towel, to absorb the excessive moisture, and they should be ironed with a warm iron while damp. Some fabrics, because of fineness, construction, or color, respond best to dry cleaning, and if done at home, extreme care should be taken in the handling of articles and in the selection of the cleaning agent to be used. Whether laundering or dry-cleaning method is used, stains should be removed from the article before the whole article is cleaned. The proper time to remove stain is when it is fresh. Air, heat, and water may change the character of the stain and make it difficult to remove, if it can be removed at all. It is much easier to remove a stain without injury to the fabric if the kind of stain is known. Most ordinary stains on tub-fast, washable materials, such as cotton or linen, can be removed with warm water; or in case of fruit stain, boiling water poured from a height. Stubborn stains, like ink, require special treatment.* Clothing and fabric articles that can be handled easily should be brushed often and regularly. Dust and dirt work into the meshes of the weave and cut the threads. The best time to brush clothing is immediately after wearing. Underwear and stockings should be washed often; fibers deteriorate with perspiration and body acids. In most homes, rugs and upholstery usually get a bigger share of the wear than other articles. To avoid some of this wear, they should have a quick daily cleaning, rather than to allow dust and dirt to work into the pile. A more thorough cleaning should be given weekly. The best cleaning implements to use are a vacuum cleaner and a carpet sweeper. Sweeping with a broom, especially against the pile, will further embed the dirt, and may tear or damage the soft, wool nap. Greasy spots and soil cause dirt to stick, which, in turn, dulls the colors. A good nonflammable cleansing fluid will brighten colors and remove spots. Some kinds of rugs and upholstery can be shampooed with safety if a thick jelly-like suds is made of neutral soap and applied with a brush using a circular motion. The lather should be scraped off with a dull broad knife, and then wiped off with a damp, clean cloth wrung out of clean warm water. This process should be repeated as many times as is necessary to remove all soap and soil. As little water as possible should be used. Articles should be allowed to dry thoroughly before being used. A thorough cleaning occasionally by an expert will prolong the life of such furnishings. Hard shaking of small rugs breaks the backing and unravels the ends or fringe. A rug laid on a smooth surface or over a pad not only wears longer but is easier to keep clean. If slip covers are used, they should be removed often enough for cleanliness and to make sure that moths do not lurk beneath them to feast on the precious fabrics of the davenport or chairs. Tablecloths, luncheon cloths, and
*See America's Housekeeping Book, Chapter 25, p. 323.
62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
LESSON DEPARTMENT
napkins are made of various kinds of fabrics, such as cotton, linen, rayon, silk, and Cellophane. Linen and cotton, if white, can stand hot water; if colored, warm water should be used in washing. They should be washed quickly, rinsed thoroughly and, if white, dried in sun; if colored, they should be dried in the shade. Grass linen is stiff and should be handled carefully so as not to break the threads. Cotton and linen require a hotter iron in pressing than do other fabrics. Mats made entirely of Cellophane only need to be wiped with a damp cloth to clean. A bit of starch in the rinsing water will give cotton a gloss when ironed and keep it clean longer. Never use starch for other materials, especially linen. If ironed linens are rolled on a pasteboard or paper roll rather than folded, they keep fresh, clean, and wear longer. The folds in larger cloths should be changed occasionally to prevent wear along the line of the fold. Bedding should have its share of care. A clean, soft, but firm mattress, fluffy clean blankets, and clean sheets are inviting and help one to rest well. Soiled bedding is not nearly so warm as clean bedding. Regular airing and sunning of the mattress will keep it fluffy. A mattress should have a cover that fits snugly and that can be removed for washing. The rules for washing table linen apply also to bed linen. Over-washing of woolen blankets mats the
63
nap and causes harshness and shrinkage. Blankets will be fluffy and soft if dried out-of-doors on a mild, breezy day. Sheets hung straight and smooth on the line, dried, and then carefully removed and folded, need
64
not be ironed other than to press the hems. Occasionally the wood of furniture needs a thorough cleaning with thick soap suds to remove the grime and smoke that collect and dull the beautiful surfaces. In modern heated homes, furniture gets too dry, which sometimes causes it to crack and come apart. If washed carefully, a small part at a time, without much water, wiped thoroughly dry with a soft cloth, and polished with a good furniture polish rubbed with the grain of the wood, the wood of most furniture will look like new, and the little bit of water used will help restore the moisture drawn out by overheated houses. Floors often become loose and squeak from the same cause. Floor surfaces should be kept clean, and the finish, whether oil, wax, paint, or varnish, should be well applied. This prevents the floor from wearing, whether it be wood, linoleum or tile, and is particularly important where floors receive great
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
wear. Too frequent and too generous use of soap and water has a tendency to deteriorate rather than preserve some finishes. Each kind should have its own treatment. Paste, liquid or self-polishing wax are sometimes used too generously. When there is an accumulation of this wax, it should be removed; the floor should be thoroughly cleaned and new wax applied. Painted walls may be cleaned with a mild soap and water, or a water softener or solvent and water. They should be wiped well after washing. Long even strokes should be used when wallpaper and calcimine are cleaned with the dough-like preparations now on the market. Rubbing back and forth makes streaks and embeds the dirt in the paper. The main point to remember in cleaning all materials and articles is that they should not become too soiled.
NOTE: America's Housekeeping Book, sections one, two, and three, pp. 131-335, contains a wealth of material on this subject.
Literature The Bible as Literature
Lesson 7 Some of the Great Personalities in the Bible (Tuesday, April 20, 1943)
Objective: To remind us of some of the great characters in the Bible and help us to appreciate the qualities which made them great and to sense their influence upon our own lives.
Lesson Topics
1. Introduction
2. Abraham
3. Moses
4. Eve
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Introduction
Carlyle says: "There are great personalities who march through history with voices like clarion trumpets and something like glittering swords in their hands.... Contact with them warms and kindles the mind." By association with superior personalities, either in the flesh or through the medium of literature, we take on some of their greatness. Many people feel that the Bible has more eminent characters than any other book of literature. This is one of its claims to greatness. Frank S. Mead draws attention to this fact in his book 250 Bible Biographies. Henry T. Sell includes only twenty-one men in his Studies of Great Bible Characters, but his selection point definitely to outstanding men who have given us ideal and moral uplift by the ideals, struggles, and achievements of their own lives. He writes of Abraham, the man who dared to trust God; of Isaac, who accepted the challenge of obedience; of Joseph, the dreamer whose dreams came true; of Moses, the leader and law-giver of a nation; of Joshua, the courageous man with a hard task; of Saul, the man who abused his opportunities; of David, the self-conqueror who became king; of Job, the man of undeserved suffering; of Isaiah, the world prophet and statesman; of Daniel, the man who made advantage out of disadvantage; of Luke, the man who broadcasted the Gospel's good news; of Paul, the man who bettered city conditions; and many others. Mr. Sell describes his characters as men who were "the outstanding and strategic leaders in their own times, the men who molded the thought and directed the action of the ages
65
in which they lived, but who today are even more influential, for they realized, were profoundly influenced by, and worked enthusiastically for ideals and principles which still lead us on." They had their faults and made mistakes, for they were very human; but above every other desire, they had that of bringing the kingdom of God on earththis was their glory. We can learn from them today by seeing how they met their problems and worked them out. Mr. Sell says, "They were hardy adventurers on the sea of life who, despite violent storms, came safely to port with rich cargoes. To examine how they did this will richly repay our study, for in their successes they rise above their nationality and every age." Though Mr. Mead gives no more than his regular two or three hundred words to his thumb-nail sketch of Jesus, and Mr. Sell does not include Him at all, we know that both would give him first place among Biblical characters. Hundreds of books have been written upon His life and mission. Most of them have recognized His divinity, though a few have attempted to understand him as a man alone. Of such writers, Harry Emerson Fosdick says in The Modern Uses of the Bible, p. 272: "Of all foolish things, I think nothing is more foolish than, looking back over our race's history and discerning amid its tragedy and struggles this outstanding figure spiritually supreme, to minimize him, to tone down our thought of him, to reduce him so that we can be like him. Rather let us exalt him! If God be not in Jesus, God is not anywhere. The best hope of mankind is that God is in him and may flow down through all the secret runnels of the race." So important is the personality of Jesus that an entire lesson needs to be devoted to him. In this lesson we shall consider a few of the other Bible characters.
Abraham
That Abraham believed in God and trusted Him to the highest degree is seen in the sacrifice of Isaac. He probably felt as parents do today who sacrifice their sons for the good of their country. There is something of an analogy, too, in the willingness of parents in our Church to send their sons and daughters into strange lands to preach the Gospel. Often they realize that dangers will beset them, but they are proud to give them to the service of our Lord. Our Heavenly Father himself set the divine example, for "He so loved the world that he gave His only begotten Son." Of Abraham, William L. Phelps says, "Unlike most of the Old Testament heroes, hardly anything evil can be charged against him. He was spiritual-minded. He was obedient to the divine voice, and his unfaltering trust in God was rewarded." Mr. Sell says that Abraham stands out as a commanding figure; that he had the traits of character that make great leaders; that he had daring and splendid executive ability; that he was large-hearted and far-sighted and would have made an eminent statesman or victorious general had the opportunity come. Abraham was the founder of the Israelitish nation; his name is revered by Christians, Jews, and Mohammedans; he is still blessing mankind by making it easier for them to worship and love God and by showing them how to live uprightly under trying circumstances.
Moses
Moses was another genius, a leader at a critical period of Israelitish history. He was a lawgiver and a statesman; a guide to the Chosen People in Egypt and in the wilderness. Books have been written about Moses. Lectures have characterized him as the great Hebrew statesman. A scientist, calling him "Moses, the physician," has praised his advanced ideas concerning cleanliness and segregation of disease. He is depicted as gentle in manners, modest, and above all self-controlled, courageous, and strong. He has been classed as the "meekest" of menthe finest tribute to soldiers and kings. "The meek shall inherit the earth" suggests that there is no strength like the strength of meekness. Phelps says, "That Moses was the meekest man in ancient history, is the best thing said about him." The story of Moses' birth and concealment in the rushes is like the plot of a modern novel or movie. When Pharaoh's daughter named him, she did better than she knew, for Moses meant "drawer out," and he drew the Children of Israel out of slavery. His first act of which we have record was indicative of his later career as a deliverer. He saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew, and he killed the Egyptian, though perhaps he knew he would be condemned by his own people, taunted and insulted, and branded as a murderer. Moses' best preparation for his
66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
LESSON DEPARTMENT
later leadership came to him unconsciously while he kept the flocks of his father-in-law. The quiet, meditative life of the desert shepherd brought him in close communion with God, who gave him the sign of the burning bush to make him aware of his call to leadership. To convince his people that he had been divinely called, Moses was permitted to do a number of impressive miracles, such as turning his rod into a snake, making his hand leprous, and then well and whole again. Later miracles, of course, were much more spectacular, when he was called to compete with the magicians of the king who were trying to subdue the Israelites. The story of the Ten Plagues has been called "a tragedy in ten acts ending with a climax." This story and other incidents in the life of this great man are well known. We need here, perhaps, only to remind ourselves that though he was born in slavery, he stands out as one of the greatest figures in the history of mankind, his chief accomplishment being that he took a people who had been in the worst type of slavery the world has ever known, and made it into a great nation with as pure moral and spiritual ideals as the world has ever known. Great characters in the Bible are not confined to men. Mr. Mead includes many women among his biographies, and Willard Done, of our own Church, wrote a little book entitled Women of the Bible. Among interesting fictional books based on Biblical characters is Mary Borden's Mary of Nazareth. In this lesson we shall consider briefly but one of the great women in the Bible.
67
Eve
Little has been written about Eve, and there is little in the scriptures directly concerning her. Yet she holds a unique position in being the first woman in the world. That Eve had the womanly qualities that have preserved for her daughters their place in the shrine of men's hearts through all succeeding ages is evidenced by Adam's first recorded utterances about her and his willingness to share her fall. He said: "Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother and shall cleave unto his wife: they shall be one flesh." (Genesis 2:24) Adam could have refused to partake of the forbidden fruit. He knew well the painful consequences. Condemned for her sin, Eve has been harshly called weak; she has been reproached as the agent through whom mankind fell. She doubtless was weak and failed to discriminate between vastly different values. But let us consider some of her other characteristics. She was highly sensitive to the beauties and glories in the Garden of Eden. She longed for the gifts her tempter promisedwisdom and understanding equal to that of the gods. These would add to her power to enjoy beauty. The serpent, we must remember, had also promised that she would not die. Doubtless, too, she wanted Adam to possess something of inestimable valuethe wisdom of the gods. We must remember that Eve had had no experience. She had not learned, as most of us have to learn, that disobedience brings punishment. The promise that she would know good from evil, that she would see as God, that she would not dieall these constituted so great a temptation that she could not resist it. But to understand the mature woman it is necessary to follow Eve's career outside the Garden of Eden. As Willard Done says: "The first family was founded and the first real home established when Eve exclaimed in triumph at the birth of Cain, 'I have gotten a man from the Lord!' For the first time in the world the miracle of human birth had been experienced; and Eve was the first to know all the pain and sorrow and joy and triumph it entailed.... The first mother had looked with joy on her first born. The crowning triumph of her life had come, worth the sacrifice even of such a place as Eden. "As Eve was the first to know the experience of human birth, so she was the first mother to endure the sorrow of death, and that in its most terrible form, the murder of one of her sons by the other. It seems to have been her lot to sound all the depths and reach all the heights of woman's experience, "as if she had been destined to be an exemplar to her descendants by passing through all the joys, sorrows, glories, and humiliations that woman can know. Into her life were crowded the events which fulfilled the pronouncement following the fall.... To lose her first two sons, one by violent death and the other by the punishment of exile, was to sound the lowest depths of grief and humiliation. It is difficult to conceive of a greater sorrow. In her endurance of this bitterness, Eve proved herself again the heroine we have always thought her to be. And as so often happens in our griefs, the great loss was made up to her. Another son, Seth, was given her to fill, in part, the places left vacant by the murder of Abel and the exile of Cain. "And so Eve fought her fight and filled her place as the first wife and mother.... To have been the first woman, realizing in her long and eventful life all the experiences of womanhood and earning all its rewards, was to accomplish in its fullness the mission of her sex. No greater appreciation of Eve or higher praise for her work can be given." We cannot help wondering if Eve ever had the joy of foreseeing that through a far-off descendant would come one to redeem the world. That vision, could she have foreseen the coming of Christ from her posterity, would have been a comfort and support to her through the years. Mary, the mother of Jesus, will be presented in the next lesson.
Study Helps
1. Contrast the character of Moses with that of Aaron.
2. Discuss the influence of the Ten Commandments (Exodus 20:3-17) upon history. How do they affect our lives today?
3. Who are your five favorite Biblical heroes? Why?
4. What women characters besides Eve and Mary seem particularly important to you? Why?
5. Have some member read excerpts from Ruth and Esther; the Song of Deborah, or some similar passages from the Bible.
6. "Jephthah's Daughter", or "Hagar," by N. C. Willis might be given as a dramatic reading.
References *Phelps, W. L., Human Nature in the Bible.
68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Fosdick, Harry E., The Modern Use of the Bible. Sell, H. T., Studies of Great Bible Characters. Mead, Frank S., Bible Biographies. *Done, Willard, Women of the Bible. Taylor, William N., Ruth and Esther.
69
Relief Society Magazine, December 1915, p. 548; July 1932, p. 390. "Paradise Lost," by Milton.
Note: Books marked with asterisk (*) are now out of print, but those who have access to these books will find them helpful.
Social Science What "America" Means
Lesson 7 Growth of Political Parties in America (Tuesday, April 27, 1943)
"He serves his party best, who serves his country best." Rutherford B. Hayes
"A thing to be remembered by every man who wishes to make his influence felt for good in our politics is that he must act purely as an American.... If we wish to do good work for our country, we must be unselfish, disinterested, sincerely desirous of the well-being of the commonwealth, and capable of a devoted adherence to a lofty ideal." Theodore Roosevelt
WHEN George Washington was elected President of the United States in 1789, there were no political parties. At the beginning of the Revolutionary War, the people had divided into Whigs and Tories, or Patriots and Loyalists, but the result of the war had been final, and during the discussion and ratification of the Constitution of the United States, there had been Federalists and Anti-Federalists; the adoption of the Constitution, however, seemed to end the existence of the latter. Nevertheless, there were groups and cleavages from which parties would arise in time. There were the frontier and the settled states along the Atlantic seaboard; the rich and the poor; the agricultural and commercial classes; those who believed in a strong central government and those who stood for the fullest possible sovereignty of the different states; those who believed that the Constitution should be interpreted as strictly as possible and those who wished to give its clauses the widest possible interpretation. But on April 30, 1789, when the inauguration of Washington occurred, there were no party organizations. Washington thus had a clear field from which to make his appointments, and he believed that the presidency should not be a partisan office. When President Washington organized his cabinet, among the prominent men that he called to office were Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton, the former becoming Secretary of State and the latter, Secretary of the Treasury. In the different political theories of these two men, one discovers the cleavages from which our two great modern political partiesRepublican and Democratarose. No two men could have been more different, both in character and in views as to what government should be in the newly organized nation. Hamilton was born in the West Indies and as a young boy landed in New York with his fortune to make. He studied law and married into a wealthy New York family and became a leading figure in the state. He had a brilliant mind and an attractive personality. Jefferson was born on the frontier in Virginia. While Hamilton lived among the moneyed classes of New York, Jefferson was influenced by the people of the country life. He had complete faith in the wisdom of what we call "the common man." Hamilton believed in a strong central government, while Jefferson believed that government should be left to the people within their respective states as far as possible. Hamilton stood for a high protective tariff, a tax to protect the manufacturing industries of America. Jefferson believed that the tax or tariff on foreign goods made articles more expensive, and he radically opposed any tax on foreign goods. One can readily see that three great problems soon confronted the American people. They were: (1) Shall negro slavery be eliminated? (2) Shall a high protective tariff be maintained on imported goods? (3) Do the individual states have rights and powers over and above those granted by the Federal Government? Along these lines the American people took sides, and were grouped principally in two political camps, which eventually emerged into our major parties of today. The political parties of our national history grew out of the devergent geographical conditions of the country, for these conditions were conducive of conflicting economic or industrial interests. Cold winters and poor rock soil made most of the area of New England unsuited to extensive agriculture, but the abundant water power, proximity to the raw products of the West, and the skilled labor which that section always had, gave it extensive commercial and industrial advantages. After the War of 1812, aided by a high protective tariff, the industrial development of New England was rapid.. On the other hand, geographical conditions in the South were most favorable to the development of agticulture. The Southern people always complained that the tariff laws of the Government not only restricted trade in the South, but increased the price of manufactured goods. Then, too, the cotton indus-. Try of the Southern States fostered the growth of negro slavery, an institution which the Northern States came to abhor. Each section, therefore, was eager for political power, and during the years from 1780, when our Government was organized, down to the Civil War (1861- 1865), great statesmen lived to fight courageously for the political ideals which they held to be right. Such men were Daniel Webster, John C. Calhoun, Henry Clay, Andrew Jackson, Abraham Lincoln, Stephen A. Douglas, Jefferson Davis, and many others. It has been said that "the history of political parties in America 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 LESSON DEPARTMENT is a history of great statesmen, who though differing with their colleagues stood' shoulder to shoulder in demanding that they be in very truth Americans." BRIEF survey will help the reader to understand the history of the two major parties in our political development. From Thomas Jefferson's administration (1801-9) to 1825, the Democratic-Republicans were in power. 'They followed pretty much the policies of Jefferson. In 1825, this party dropped the name Republican, and took the name of Jacksonian Democrats, after Andrew Jackson. A new party was formed to oppose Jackson, which in 1830 took the name of Whigs. From 1830 to 1850, when slavery, states rights, and the tariff became 'bones of contention, the Whig Party gradually grew in power, and out of it came the Republican Party, which elected Abraham Lincoln in 1860. The differences between the interests of the Southern States and those of the Northern States were partly settled by the War of the Rebellion, and since the restoration of the nine 'states which seceded in 1861, there has steadily grown a better understanding of peoples living in different sections of our country. Since the Civil War, the most important phase of the development of our country has been our widespread activities in industry, which have revolutionized manufacturing, agriculture, transportation, and mining. A great machine age has changed our social lives. The power supplied by man's muscle or by that of his domestic animals has been supplemented by steam, electricity, and 7) gasoline. The use of this power aided in the production of great wealth, for manufacturing plants grew in size and were consolidated into larger industries. Trusts were organized; and, because of their tendency to monopolize the industries, the Government found it necessary to attempt legislation. In the larger factories, thousands of laborers were employed, each of whom was engaged in some detailed process of production in which expensive machinery was used. This caused the control of industry to pass from the hands of the worker and led labor to organize. Following the war between the North and the South, high tariffs have enabled great industrial corporations to develop more rapidly. Organized labor sought to increase wages, reduce hours of employment, and secure better sanitary conditions. Here you have the foundation for the differences of opinion between capital and labor. We learn a useful lesson in the study of political parties in our national history. Every man who wishes well of his country is in honor bound to take an active interest in political life. A man who wishes to do good in his community may do so by going into active political life. One can always find men who are desirous of good government, and who if they act together, become at once a power on the side of righteousness. One word more. It concerns our present problems. The present is an introduction to the future. A present problem left unsolved will ripen into a future crisis. With nearly all the world ablaze, it will require the American people to give to their country a united support in conquering those powers that are determined to destroy all that is sacred and secure in our democracy. Questions and Topics for Discussion Note: An ordinary manual or onevolume history of the United States will give brief information on the history of political parties. In your class work, talk over some of the important subjects suggested in this lesson. They are: 1. Why were the American people practically united in their social and political lives at the time of the American Revolution? 2. While there were no political parties at the time of Washington's election to the presidency, discuss the lines of political thought as expressed in the lives of Hamilton and Jefferson. 3. Give all the reasons you can why the Southern States were different from the Northern States in industry, social life, and political thought up to the time of the Civil War. 4. It has been said that the political history of a nation may be studied in the lives of the nation's great political characters. Explain this saying. 5. Find out something about the minor parties that have influenced something of our history; for example, The Prohibition Party, the Know-Nothing Party, the Progressive or Bull Moose Party. 6. On what great issue was Abraham Lincoln elected to the presidency of the United States? 7. Since the Civil War, how has America changed in its industrial, social, and political history? References Any one-volume history of the United States will be your best help. Channing, History of the United States. Fiske, The American Revolution. Babcock, Rise of American Nationality. Elson, History of the United States. Nicolay, Our Nation in the Building. Walker, Making of the Nation. Weertenbaker and Smith, The United States of America. Faulkner, American Economic History. Chadwick, Causes of the Civil War. Note: If you are not able to answer all the questions or subjects mentioned, remember it takes much close study for a long time to answer satisfactorily to yourself many questions in our political history.: ON General Presidents of Relief Society (For optional use of Relief Societies in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons.) Louise Yates Robison Seventh Relief Society President Lesson 7 (Tuesday, April 27, 1943) MORMON colonization has been characterized by the quality of the Saints who conquered the new wastes. Those men and women were strongstrong in muscle and sinew, in intelligence, in righteousness and faith. Such people were Thomas and Elizabeth Yates, an 72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 LESSON DEPARTMENT English couple who helped to found Scipio, a small town in Millard County, Utah. Their daughter, Louise, was born May 27, 1866, while an Indian uprising was at its height. When the baby was five days old, neighbors lifted the bed containing mother and babe into a wagon, which they pulled into a stockade of logs that was also their meetinghouse. The Indians had killed three men of the small colony and had driven off all the horses and cattle. The Yates family survived these depredations as well as the hard labor which the primitive conditions required. Despite her years of toil, Mrs. Yates retained the gentility and refinement native to her character. Louise, like her mother, possessed the traits of a gentlewoman. She grew to be tall, slender, dignified and graceful. She was pleasant, softspoken, and mild of utterance. As a girl, Louise helped to wash, spin, weave, and dye woolen materials for her dresses. She knitted stockings, braided straw hats, and made flower. Trimmings. Louise Robison sometimes recalls the excitement in Scipio when President Brigham Young once visited there. The children wanted to strew flowers in his pathway, but blossoms were scarce. In the gardens they were lacking, although some house plants were in bloom. Louise stripped her mother's plants at the feet of the President. Brother Yates was bishop of Scipio, and his wife was Relief Society president of Millard Stake. Louise grew up in the wholesome atmosphere of a Latter-day Saint home, with the Relief Society influence its 73 dominant note. The family life was inseparably bound up with Church and community activities. Aiding her mother and the Relief Society, Louise gleaned wheat, gathered Sunday eggs to be sold for wheat money, helped the sick and unfortunate. The love of humanity and the spirituality she thus developed are the two outstanding qualities which she brought to the Relief Society presidency, and which were magnified with her years of service. For a time Louise studied at the Brigham Young University in Provo. She was a beautiful girl, and while quite young she married Joseph Lyman Robison, a member of another pioneering family, and a man of fine character. At first the pair lived in southern Utah, then they made a lovely home for their growing family in Provo. Later, they moved to Salt Lake City. 'Fhey had four daughters and two sons. The girls married and devoted themselves to their homes. The oldest son, Harold, is a prominent physician in Los Angeles, while Rulon, a singer, teaches at the famous New England Conservatory of Music. MISTER ROBISON worked fist in the Mutual Improvement Association, then on the Granite Stake Relief Society Board, where she became counselor to the president. Brother Robison cooperated and encouraged his wife to do the Church work for which she was in demand. During World War I, Louise Robison became a Red Cross instructor and supervisor in the surgical dressings department. For outstanding services, she was honored with the emblem of the Red Cross, a beautiful pin. In 1921, President Heber J. Grant called Sister Robison to be second counselor to Sister Clarissa S. Williams, the new general president of Relief Society. Sitting in the audience when her name was presented, she was almost overcome with surprise. Because of her sympathetic nature and her exquisite needlework, Sister Robison was made chairman of the important burial-clothes department of the General Board. Able to express condolence in a delicate, tactful maner, she was a genuine comfort to the bereaved. Sister Robison took a special interest in home beautification, and through her enthusiasm and under the Society's direction trees and shrubs were planted and homes were improved. In view of Sister Robison's interest in furthering human welfare and happiness, she was chosen to represent the Relief Society at two conferences of the Travelers Aid Society and at three National Conventions of Social Workers, appearing on the program at one of them. Her reports of her attendance at 'the White House Conferences for Children breathe love and sympathy and a longing for improved conditions for the nation's young. In 1928, Sister Robison was appointed general president of Relief Society. She has traveled widely in the stakes and missions of America and in the missions of Europe, carrying messages of gladness, stirring people's hearts, arousing love and enthusiasm for the Gospel and its work. Her grace of manner, natural eloquence, kindliness, her remarkable memory for names and faces, her personal interest in Relief Society workersall have made her a most welcome visitor. At a World Congress of Women in Chicago, while the World's Fair was open, the president of the National Council of Women, Lena M. Phillips, appointed Mrs. Robison to preside at one session, which was attended by hundreds of women from all over the world. When a delegate to the International Council of Women in Paris, France, Mrs. Robison by request represented Lena M. Phillips at two meetings of the international presidents. Only the properly accredited women were admitted. While in Europe, Sister Robison visited Relief Societies in some of the branches in England, Belgium, Holland, Switzerland, and Germany. Many of the Saints still hold her visit in precious remembrance. Sister Robison sponsored institutes in social welfare to teach Relief Society women better methods of caring for the poor. During Sister Robison's presidency a notable event occurred. A monument was erected by the Relief Society at Nauvoo, Illinois, to mark the site where Relief Society was organized March 27, 1842. This monument is of stone, four by eight feet, surmounted by two bronze tablets giving historical data of Relief Society. At the dedication ceremony, July 26, 1933, hundreds of people sat under spreading locusts, or stood nearby. Mr. W. D. Chenery of Illinois wrote in a newspaper there that "Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, presided over the ceremonial with a graciousness and tact that might be the emulation 74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 LESSON DEPARTMENT of chairmen the world over." Another writer commented that her pleasing manner and ready wit caught the crowd, Another important project encouraged by Sister Robison, and one which became a very popular phase of Relief Society work in America and in the foreign missions, was the development of Singing Mothers' choruses. Sister Robison has done much temple work during her lifea work that has been for years one of her major satisfactions. 'The spiritual side of the-Gospel appeals to her nature. Late in 1939, when the General Boards of Relief Society and Primary 715 were reorganized, Sister Robison and her Board were honorably released. She was then asked to be an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple, and took much pleasure in fulfilling that call. She is at present actively engaged in Relief Society work in San: Francisco Stake. She accepts many invitations to speak in wards and stakes. Sister Robison and her Board inaugurated the fouryear Relief Society membership campaign and carried it forward for two years. Her interest in this project continued throughout the campaign. The true spirit of the Gospel emerges in her voice and shines forth in her countenance. References Handbook of Relief Society, p. 129 et passim Centenary of Relief Society, p. 13, et passim Relief Society Magazine, July 1921, p. 381; December 1928, p. 652; January 1929, Pp. 3, 22; July 1929, p. 360; January 1930, p. 27; March 1930, p. 123; June 1933, p. 384; September 1933, p. 540; March 1934, p. 167; July 1934, p. 442; September 1934, p-'555; June 1935, p. 375; January 1937, p- 44; May 1939, p. 311; February 1940, Po We Pictures: Handbook of Relief Society, p. 108 Centenary of Relief Society, p. 13 et passim Relief Society Magazine, July 1921, p. 382; June 1924, p. 272; January 1929, p. 2; June 1930, p. 308; March 1932, p. 130; February 1940, p. 76 Justice Is a Group Affair (Continued from page 33) Mr. Peterson cleared his throat again. Let me see your report card, Judith," he said. She gave it to him. "Why, there's a mistake here. How is that?" He used an eraser and a pen and handed the card back. A "G" was written where the "P" had been. "Oh, thanks!" Judith gulped and ran to her seat. Mr. Peterson looked hard at a book. Edna turned abruptly and walked out of the room, her back a rigid exclamation point of triumph and disgust. Judith caught a glimpse of her face as she turned to close the door. It was grey-white like snow in shadow. The group in the rear broke up, and Judith moved outside, too. No one wanted to talk. Afterwards the schoolroom was different. Mr. Peterson's attitude was impersonal, and a whole new world opened wide. There was so much to learn and so little time! Life grew exciting and happy again. Soon the feeling of expectancy, which was spring, rose on the air; and the hillside, still clothed in the shaggy grass of the autumn before, began to push through the snow. When the windows were open, Judith could hear the first water-song coming up from the sunny side of the bridge where the creek was creeping out of its cold, hard covering and bubbling over with freedom. The linnets alighted in the nearby trees and tossed up their tinkling notes: "Happy greeting! Happy greeting!" And there was a fresh, clean smell in the air as of rainwashed leaves or newly-laundered curtains. Then, suddenly, it was May; the Maypole dance was over, the pasture rolling down toward the creek from the schoolyard fence was warm and green and dotted with brassy little buttons of dandelions, and the final examinations were just around the corner. Now Judith sat on the summer grass remembering Edna Silver... Justice is a group affair, justice for: everybody, and everybody's concern.... Some folks unkind, but more who were selfless and lovable and great... Edna Silver. All these were hers in a wonderful country; and she had thought it was a new dress that mattered, but Edna had known. Her heart was packed to bursting with unformed dreams. This Night Mabel Jones Gabbott How beautiful this twilight hour! The day Is done. In roseate blue and gold and pink Apollo's fiery chargers seem to sink Beyond our small world's rim and speed away. Then softly, silently night closes in, The stilled sweet hush of ending day is near; Warm lights in little windows now appear, Dispelling shadows, 'circling joy within. And yet beyond the tinted line of sky And earth, beyond the sunset's afterglow, Great war clouds gather, flinging wild and high, Their dark and somber silhouettes of woe. Our dusk falls peacefully and calm this night; God grant our sunrise may be clear and bright. 76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEJANUARY 1943 DEAFENED Otarion Vacuum Tube Hearing Aid is Light weight, Small size, Dependable Economical @AMA accepted Noiseless Inconspicuous Guaranteed Rent an Otarion at low cost-- applied to purchase price. DEALER'S NAME HEAR wins Gravion OTARION OF SALT LAKE Donald G. Lyman Telephone 512 MelIntyre Bldg. 5-4036 Salt Lake City, Utah (Harton "L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!" In PRIVATE INDUSTRY or in GOVERNMENT OFFICES- you can serve better if you have been trained professionally for the job. Ww Ask for our "Bulletin of Information" L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City, Utah MORMON HANDICRAFT Gift Shop... 21 West South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Rare Handmade Gifts QUALITY ONLY HANDS CAN PRODUCE GENUINE WATER-COLOR PICTURESAPRONS THAT ARE DIFFERENTUNIQUE PIONEER DOLLSHAND-KNIT SWEATERSBEAUTIFUL QUILTSUNUSUAL ARTICLES IN FELT RUGS, AND MANY OTHER LOVELY GIFTS Sponsored by RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Comes the New Year. In that "chapter' we all will record something that will, in total, make up the continuation of that "engrossing story.'' Those in high places will contribute mightily; those in more humble stations will have their parts, each according to his works. For our part, as printers, we are resolved to serve our many clients, within the limits imposed by difficult times, better than required; to deliver more than the contract calls for. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine