[Vol10 | August 1923 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Guide | Title: Theology and Testimony - Habits and Customs in Heaven]

Guide Lessons for October
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in October)
HABITS AND CUSTOMS IN HEAVEN
Part I. Habits. The word "heaven" carries with it the idea of a place of happiness, in fact, heaven and happiness are in a sense synonymous, with the difference that in the heaven idea the place element dominates while in the happiness idea condition is most thought of. We think of going to heaven, but we think of being happy. Our heaven is inseparably associated with heavenly beings. Without these beings the place takes on the aspect of a home with no one there. Heaven is thought of as a place of salvation and salvation has been sagely declared to be a condition beyond the power of one's enemies. (See Compendium Gems, page 276.) It must be remembered that man has two kinds of enemies, the objective and subjective. God can place man beyond his objective enemies, but the man must free himself from his subjective enemies. Wrong attitudes and bad habits are his chief subjective enemies. The place thought of as heaven would be a place of discomfort to any one whose habits were out of harmony with the inhabitants of heaven. The habit of untruthfulness would so chagrin its possessor that he would flee from a place where truth speaking was the habit of everybody, and we cannot think of heaven as a home of the habitual falsifier. Our chief concern, then, as to heaven is not where we are going to, but where shall we be when we get there; with what kind of beings would we enjoy ourselves? Conflicting habits make happiness out of the question. The clean cannot be happy in the presence of the unclean, nor can the latter have joy in the presence of the former. The prophet Joseph Smith stated a great truth when he said: "If you wish to go where God is you must be like God;" i. e., have habits like His. Our desire might well be lined up in this order: First, to be like the Lord; second, to be where he is, third, to be what he is, i. e. Have God power, responsibility, etc. (See Compendium page
283.) The first desire will lead us to "learn of his ways" that we may "walk in his paths" which would consist in finding out what the Lord's habits are and in forming habits like his. The second desire will call for a companionship of the Lord's Spirit that will give one a sense of his approval here and an assurance of compatible association with him hereafter. Just as fast as we know good doctrine we have a habit-knowledge, and just so fast are we saved from our inferior selves by our superior selves, and made fit for being placed beyond the power of our objective enemies, which is all in keeping with the great law stated by the modern Seer, "A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge."
Four Heaven Habits.
1. The habit of being in an on-the-altar attitude; a constant, complete consecration of the self, not the consecration such as Satan offered with a selfish condition attached, nor the consecration such as was made by Ananias and his wife with a reserve to lean on (see Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, 4:1; also Acts 5:11) but the consecration like that of Jesus full, complete, unconditional; full of confidence, void of hesitancy (see Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses 4:2),?the consecration of a Lydia Knight giving up her teams to aid the emigration of others while she waited with her fatherless little ones. The habit of having this on-the-altar attitude is not only a heaven habit, it is a heaven-making habit. How much of heaven was brought to the home by the refusal of a young man to join a fraternity because one of his on-the-altar habits was to be lovingly responsive to the counsels of his father. There was no need of a "you must not do it" nor the "you ought not to do it," but just the love filled expression, "I would prefer that you do not."
2. The habit of unselfish service is a heaven habit. Not for his own sake did the Son of God plan his descent from the counsels of the Trinity, the power of a creator and the companionship of celestials to be born in a stable, hunted by a murderous monarch, taught carpentry by a foster-father, and from his mother learn the scriptures of which he was himself the author; to conform to the requirements of a pagan government; to be misunderstood in his teachings, unappreciated in his work, rejected by his race, betrayed by an associate, killed for doing good. It was not because of His needs but because of the needs of others that he went through it all and asked as a recompense only that which he left when he came into mortality, the presence of his Father. Just the place and the power that was his in his father's kingdom (see John 17:5).

3. Prayer is a heaven habit. That the parents of Jesus taught him to pray there can be no doubt, but that his praying habit had a foundation seems evident from his declaration recorded in John 5:18-22. The frequency with which Jesus prayed put prayer as one of his habits.
4. Sabbath Day observance is a heaven habit. The creation of the earth was planned in the councils of the Gods. It was no experiment. The periods and processes were predetermined and before the work began the celebration of the finish was programmed (see Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham 5:4-8). Observing the Sabbath was one of the habits of the Christ (see Luke 4:15), and if he was in the habit of doing what he had seen his Father do we must conclude that this planet is not the only one on which a holy day is observed. The Sunday observance habit is a process of bringing the conditions of heaven to the earth. The Lord Jesus, may we not conjecture, hallowed the Sabbath by plan, observed it before he took upon himself mortality, and was in the habit of attending meeting on the hallowed day while he dwelt among men.
In Recapitulation: A heaven habit is a habit of heavenly beings. Our heaven habits make heaven possible for us. The forming of heaven habits saves us from our subjective enemies, our inferior selves. Heaven habit-knowledge, or doctrine-knowledge transmuted into habit is the knowledge that saves us as fast as we get it. Without heaven habits no one can be at home with heavenly beings. The habit of having an on-the-altar attitude; the habit of rendering unselfish service; the habit of praying, and the habit of observing the Lord's Day are four heaven habits, or habits of heavenly beings.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. In the light of this lesson what is a heaven habit?
2. What would God's heaven be to a person who had none of the habits of the Lord?
3. Quote Joseph Smith on becoming like God.
4. Name four habits possessed by heavenly beings.
5. Show that Christ had the habit of being in an "on-the-altar" attitude.
6. What evidence have we that unselfish service is a habit of heavenly beings?
7. Prove that the habit of prayer is a heaven habit.
8. Give evidence that the observance of the Sabbath was one of the habits of Jesus, in both his pre-mortal and mortal state.
9. What was the result of trying to live in heaven with the unheavenly habit of accusing the brethren? (see Revelation 12:10.)
LESSON DEPARTMENT