[Vol44 | May 1957 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Home | Title: Mary C.]
[Mary C. Hendry, Artist in Handicraft]
MARY  C.  Hendry,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  loves  beauty  in  all  its  forms.  She  writes 
descriptive  poetry  with  a  discriminating  selection  of  words  and  phrases;  she  has 
made  an  illustrated  scrapbook  for  each  of  her  great-grandchildren.  She  has  shared  her 
spiritual  insight  and  her  many  blessings  with  her  large  family  and  her  neighbors,  living 
daily  her  motto:  "Love  your  Heavenly  Father,  love  your  neighbors,  develop  a  sense  of 
humor,  and  keep  busy." 
Her  handicraft  hobbies  have  brought  much  pleasure  to  Sister  Hendry  and  have 
beautified  the  homes  of  hundreds  who  have  received  her  handmade  articles  as  gifts. 
She  makes  crocheted  doilies  of  many  intricate  patterns,  designs  and  makes  appliqued 
tablecloths,  pieces  quilts  in  original  patterns,  and  makes  lovely  gifts  of  "odds  and 
ends"  of  materials. 
On  July  6,  1957,  Mary  Hendr}^  will  be  one  hundred  years  old.  She  is  mother 
of  eight  children,  grandmother  of  twenty,  great-grandmother  of  forty-six,  and  great-great- 
grandmother  of  one.  Her  long  life  has  been  devoted  to  family,  friends,  and  to  her 
Church — a  century  of  loving  service. 
cJriumph 
Eva  WilJes  Wangsgaard 
It's  not  the  prize  I  won  that  set  me  flying 
My  little  banner  starred  with  joy  and  pride; 
But  this:  I  struggled  through  the  body's  crying 
And  did  not  heed  the  ache  to  turn  aside. 
Page  327

Magazine  Subscriptions  for  1956 
Counselor  Marianne  C.  Sharp 
npHE  callings  of  stake  and  ward,  membership  of  Latter-day  Saint 
mission  and  branch  Relief  So-  women,  The  Reliei  Society  Maga- 
ciety  Magazine  representatives,  if  zine  likewise  enters  new  portals  to 
faithfully  performed,  have  far-reach-  bring  inspiring  and  refining  influ- 
ing  results.  Not  only  do  they  render  ences  to  an  enlarged  circle  of  sisters, 
service  to  Relief  Society  today  The  increase  in  number  of  sub- 
through  bringing  the  spirit  of  Relief  scriptions  in  1956  is  the  largest  re- 
Society  into  Latter-day  Saint  homes  corded  —  10,465  —  the  subscriptions 
within  the  stakes  of  the  Church  as  of  December  31,  1956  were 
and  in  the  far  distant  lands  of  the  148,562  and  the  number  in  Decem- 
earth,  but  their  work  will  not  be  ber  31,  1955  was  138,097.  When  one 
forgotten  in  the  years  ahead.  considers  the  zeal  and  effort  some- 
By  commandment  of  the  Lord,  times  expended  in  securing  one  sub- 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  a  record-  scription,  one  may  realize  even 
keeping  people.  So,  today,  we  turn  though  dimly,  the  great  amount  of 
to  the  pages  of  the  Woman's  Ex-  work  and  the  devotion  which  this 
ponent  to  read  of  the  record  of  great  number  of  subscriptions  rep- 
Relief  Society  from  1872  to  1914,  resents.  One  year's  award  subscrip- 
as  it  was  reported  from  societies  in  tion  which  is  given  to  each  Maga- 
that  day.  And  for  the  enlighten-  zine  representative  whose  subscrip- 
ment  of  those  sisters,  we  find  our  tions  equal  seventy-five  per  cent  of 
early  great  Relief  Society  leaders  the  respective  enrolled  Relief  So- 
sharing  their  experiences  of  Nauvoo  ciety  membership,  is  but  a  small 
in  the  pages  of  the  Woman's  token  of  regard. 
Exponent.  These  precious  papers  The  reward  to  Magazine  repre- 
give  us  understanding  and  apprecia-  sentatives  is  in  the  blessings  which 
tion  of  Relief  Society's  work  of  each  one  receives  for  having  accept- 
earlier  years.  Had  sisters  of  that  ed  the  calling  and  faithfully  per- 
day  not  acted  as  agents  for  the  formed  it,  and  these  blessings  are 
Woman's  Exponent,  these  copies  not  confined  to  our  life  here.  Re- 
would  not  be  found  today.  cently  a  mission  Relief  Society  presi- 
In   this  day   The  Rehei  Society  dent  said  that  she  considered  The 
Magazine  is  presenting  and  preserv-  ReUef  Society  Magazine  one  of  the 
Relief  Society  history.  To  the  Mag-  best    proselyting    mediums    in    the 
azine  representatives  throughout  the  mission  over  which  her  husband  pre- 
world,  the  general  board  expresses  sides. 
its  heartfelt  thanks  for  their  love  of  For   the   tenth   year.   South   Los 
Relief  Society  which  urges  them  to  Angeles   Stake  leads  the  stakes  of 
fulfill  their  callings  so  nobly.    Year  the  Church  with  253  per  cent.  They 
by  year,  as  the  blessings  of  Relief  have   1143   enrolled   Relief  Society 
Society  are  extended  to  a  greater  members    and    2896    subscriptions. 
Page  328

MAGAZINE  SUBSCRIPTIONS  FOR  1956 
329 
South  Gate  Ward  of  that  stake 
reached  481  per  cent,  with  eighty- 
five  members  and  409  subscriptions. 
In  1956  there  are  222  stakes  on 
the  honor  roll  and  1949  wards.  This 
compares  very  favorably  with  the 
1955  report  which  had  204  stakes  on 
the  honor  roll  and  1739  wards  and 
branches  in  stakes.  Twenty-six 
stakes  in  1956  had  every  one  of  their 
wards  over  one  hundred  per  cent, 
which  is  seven  less  than  last  year. 
Fifteen  missions  are  on  the  hon- 
or roll  in  1956,  an  increase  of  one 
over  the  previous  year,  and  642 
branches,  whereas  there  were  only 
486  mission  branches  on  the  honor 
roll  in  1955.  The  missions  are  to  be 
commended  for  this  excellent  in- 
crease. 
As  each  Magazine  representative 
goes  about  her  calling,  her  interest 
is  centered  —  and  rightly  so  —  upon 
her  particular  ward  or  branch.  The 
stake  and  mission  Magazine  repre- 
sentatives are  concerned  with  larger 
geographic-ecclesiastical  units,  but 
the  real  significance  of  the  work  of 
the  Magazine  representative  is  ap- 
proximated only  when  the  statistics 
for  the  entire  Church  are  studied. 
Then  the  light  of  the  service  of 
each  faithful,  devoted  individual 
Magazine  representative  joined  with 
the  lights  of  hundreds  of  her  sister 
Magazine  representatives  bursts  into 
a  great  flame  of  service. 
It  is  the  hope  of  the  general  board 
that  the  words  of  instruction  and 
encouragement  in  The  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine  may  be  as  a  lamp  to 
help  guide  the  sisters  who  read  and 
follow  the  teachings  of  their  be- 
loved Relief  Society.  Then  will  the 
Magazine  representatives  feel  their 
labors  have  indeed  borne  fruit. 
uionors  for  uiighest  LKatings 
Stake 
South  Los  Angeles  (California)   253% 
Magazine  Representative — Edna  C.  Stoutsenberger 
Ward 
South  Gate  Ward,  South  Los  Angeles  Stake   (California)   481% 
Magazine  Representative — Eva  Guynn 
Branch 
Eloy  Branch,  Mesa  Stake  (Arizona)  280% 
Magazine  Representative — Flora  Johnson 
Mission 
California  Mission — 103% 
Mission  Relief  Society  President — Alta  H.  Taylor 
Mission  Distiict 
South  Texas  District,  Gulf  States  Mission — 130% 
Magazine  Representative — (None  given) 
Mission  Branch 
Franklin  Branch — 250% 
West  Virginia  North  District,  East  Central  States  Mission 
Magazine  Representative — May  eel  W.  Sponaugle