[Vol44 | May 1957 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Features The Old | Author: Ball]
[The Old Tin Trunk Grace W. Ball]
HOW  TO  WRITE  A  SHORT  STORY 
297 
story,  the  main  character,  as  I  said 
above,  has  not  solved  her  problem, 
but,  has  learned  compassion  for  the 
person  who  created  the  problem, 
and  resolves  with  divine  help  to  find 
the  courage  to  go  on,  your  story  will 
end  on  a  note  of  hope  and  will  give 
the  reader  a  "lift." 
Remember  that  writing  is  a  pro- 
fession, and  the  writing  of  a  short 
story  is  one  of  the  most  exacting 
tasks  in  the  field  of  creative  art.  In 
only  a  few  thousand  words  you  must 
present  a  problem,  do  a  skillful 
characterization,  keep  the  story 
moving,  end  the  story  in  a  satisfac- 
tory manner.  All  this  at  the  same 
time.  The  writer  is  not  unlike  a 
juggler. 
You  will  not  become  a  writer 
overnight,  any  more  than  the  medic- 
al student  becomes  a  doctor  over- 
night, or  the  law  student  sits  in  the 
judge's  seat  overnight.  So  don't  be 
discouraged  if  your  early  efforts  are 
disappointing.  Only  by  writing  and 
by  the  trial-and-error  method  will 
you  learn. 
There  is  no  easy  road,  there  is 
no  substitute  for  the,  perhaps,  mil- 
lion words,  many  of  which  will  land 
in  the  wastebasket.  But  there  is  a 
reward  which  comes  from  those  first 
million  words  because  you  will  final- 
ly learn  at  which  type  of  story  you 
are  the  most  adept,  and  what  your 
best  method  of  working  is,  and  you 
will  develop  a  story  sense. 
The  Church  publications  offer  an 
excellent  training  for  the  beginning 
writer.  I  am  grateful  to  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine  and  The  Improve- 
ment Era   for   the   encouragement 
they  gave  me  in  my  early  days  of 
writing,  and  I  am  always  proud  to 
see  one  of  my  stories  in  these  maga- 
zines. 
As  to  what  other  books  I  might 
recommend  to  help  the  writer:  I 
found  Dynamics  oi  Drama*  by 
Shaftel  to  be  very  good.  Read  any 
book  you  can  get  on  writing.  You 
may  find  one  that  suits  you  even 
better  than  the  two  I  have  named. 
Right  now  the  short  story  field 
is  in  a  highly  competitive  stage. 
Even  established  writers  are  not 
selling.  Let  me  caution  you  at  this 
point  not  to  sell  your  talent  short. 
Perhaps  you  dream  of  becoming  a 
great  financial  success  as  a  result  of 
your  talent.  If  you  don't  realize 
this  ambition,  don't  let  frustration 
and  bitterness  belittle  this  talent 
which  you  have. 
You  may  use  your  skill  with  words 
in  writing  the  story  of  your  life,  so 
that  your  children  and  grandchil- 
dren may  someday  read  it,  or  write 
newsy  letters  to  missionaries,  or  to 
the  boys  in  the  service,  or  write 
skits  for  the  different  organizations 
of  the  Church.  If  you  do  this,  you 
will  have  justified  your  talent. 
Remember  that  the  money  one 
receives  for  the  sale  of  a  story  is 
the  smallest  part  of  the  reward.  One 
of  my  stories  of  which  I  am  most 
proud  was  published  in  a  magazine 
which  paid  nothing,  but  it  was  an 
honor  to  appear  in  its  pages.  Re- 
member that  the  money  is  soon 
spent,  but  if  you  have  written  some- 
thing which  has  influenced  or 
brought  a  bit  of  joy  or  humor  into 
someone's  life,  those  are  the  last- 
ing rewards. 
*Note:  Dynamics  of  Drama,  by  Armin  Shaftel,  may  be  purchased  from  the  Comfort 
Press,  Inc.,  St.  Louis,  Missouri,  for  $2.50.

(( 
This  Is  My  Baby" 
Chiistie  Lund  Coles 
YOU  were  so  pretty  standing  which  you  were  determined  to  con- 
before  me  in  your  pink  and  quer. 
black   skirt,   and   your   trim,  My  heart  went  out  to  you  in  love 
little  pink  blouse.    Your  eyes  were  and  tenderness.     I  thought  of  the 
like    blue    delphiniums,    and    your  many  times  through  the  years  when 
fair  skin  took  on  some  of  the  pink-  you   had   sat   in    that   same   chair: 
ness  of  your  clothes.  when  you  were  very  small,  curled  up 
You   looked   little   more   than   a  in   it;   when  you  were  larger,  and 
child  yourself  as  you  reminded  me  there  was  company,  and  you  would 
quite    emphatically,    'This    is    my  sit  primly  —  in  your  best  dress,  and 
baby,''  in  answer  to  a  suggestion  I  patent-leather  slippers  —  your  feet 
had  made,  telling  me  that  you  were  not  quite  touching  the  floor;  when 
responsible  for  my  adorable  grand-  you  were  in  high  school, 
daughter.  We  talked  a  little  as  I  crocheted 
'That  is  right,''  I  replied,  'would  a  new  edge  on  a  white  linen  hankie, 
you  like  some  cookies  and  milk?  We  We  didn't  talk  loudly  because  Ann 
can  give  Ann  a  graham  cracker."  is  a  light  sleeper  and  we  didn't  want 
You    hesitated    briefly,    then    ac-  to  awaken  her. 
cepted,  smiling.    We  went  into  the  It  was  enough  for  me  just  to  have 
kitchen  to  sit  at  the   table  where  you  there. 
the  sun  made  the  yellow  curtains  As  I  thought  of  the  baby's  com- 
more   yellow,    and   the   flowers   on  ing,  I  remembered  when  you  were 
the  sill  shone  in  leaf  and  bud.  born.     The  doctors  had  told  me  I 
We  ate  together  while  Ann  did  shouldn't  have  a  child  because  of 
a  delightful  job  of  getting  the  crack-  my  heart,  badly  damaged  by  years 
er  any  place  except  in  her  mouth,  of  semi-invalidism  from  rheumatic 
We  watched   her  in   delight  until  fever.    But  I  wasn't  afraid.  My  want 
her  eyes  became  heavy,  and  you  said  of  you  transcended  all  fear.     Even 
you  should  take  her  home  for  her  during  the  difficult  and  long  birth, 
nap.  when   even  the  doctor  was  fright 
"Couldn't    she    nap    here,    just  ened,  I  did  not  lose  faith, 
once?"  I  asked.  When  you  were  born,  I  saw  your 
Sorry  for  your  abrupt  words,  you  delicate  head,  your  gray-blue  eyes, 
smiled,  agreeing,  "I  suppose  so."  your  slim  fingers  that  touched  mine 
And     together     we     put     chairs  and  made  me  forever  your  slave,  and 
around  the  bed  in  your  room  which  knew   you   were  worth   it  all   and 
still  stands  the  way  you  left  it.     I  much,  much  more, 
went  out,  you  stayed  a  moment.  I  thought  fondly  and  swiftly  of 
You  came  out  and  sat  opposite  my  own  birth  and  my  dear  mother, 
me  in  the  blue  mohair  chair.    You  I  told  myself  again,  we  were  all  a 
took  out  the  socks  you  were  knit-  part  of  this  new  and  wonderful  life, 
ting   for   Jim,    the    intricate    heels  Ann  is  not  yours. 
Page  298

"THIS  IS  MY  BABY''  299 
I  recalled  how  much  I  had  loved  I  took  you  into  the  house  to  dry 
you  .  .  .  how  I  had  sat  by  your  crib  you.    What  did  you  do?  You  looked 
and  actually  wept  in  gratitude,  see-  into  the  long  mirror  and  said,  ''All 
ing  you  asleep,  touching  your  hair,  my  curls  are  gone." 
and  glad  because  you  were  so  per-  And  indeed  they  were,  the  curls 
feet,  so  sweet.  we  had  worked  so  hard  putting  in 
that  morning. 
COON  you  were  walking.    For  a  'There    will    be    lots    of    other 
time  we  lived  in  the  same  apart-  curls/'  I  whispered,  gathering  you 
ment  house  as  my  mother  and  fa-  into  my  arms,  "lots  of  curls.'' 
ther.      They   were   just   above    us.  You    saved    me    from    drowning 
You  used  to  climb  the  stairs  some  later.    And  I,  who  was  afraid  of  a 
mornings  before  I  was  awake  and  tiny  spider  —  once  chased  a  taran- 
tell  grandma  you  wanted  hotcakes.  tula  all  over  the  bed  to  protect  you. 
I'm  sure  she  and  grandpa  loved  you  There  was  the  time,  in  another 
just  as  I  love  Ann.    There  was  nev-  strange  town,  when  your  father  was 
er  enough  they  could  do  for  you.  away,  when  we  were  ill  at  the  same 
And  you  were  dear  to  Daddy's  time,  without  a  loaf  of  bread  in  the 
parents  also  though  we  were  not  as  house,  and  with  no  phone  to  order 
close  to   them.     But   I   recall  one  any.     But  we  managed.     And  we 
day  we  were  at  their  home  in  the  had  fun  .  .  .  fun.    Until  you  were 
country.     It  was  some  holiday  and  a   big  girl,  you  would  ask   me   to 
all    the    family    was    there,    sitting  sing  to  you  after  we  were  in  bed. 
around   in   the  back  yard   visiting.  With  the  doors  open  between  our 
You  had  followed  the  dog  to  the  rooms,  I  would  sing  sometimes  for 
front  lawn  and,  naturally,  I  had  fol-  an  hour,  or  until  I  was  too  hoarse  to 
lowed  you.  sing  any  longer.     And  there  were 
The  flowing  well  was  at  the  top  nights  when  we  were  both  nervous, 
of  the  lawn  near  the  fence  and  it  and  you  would  come  and  crawl  into 
ran   constantly  into  a   large  barrel  my  bed. 
sunk  into  the  ground.    You  leaned  Today,  as  I  looked  at  you  across 
over  to  take  a  drink  from  the  run-  the  room,  trying  to  appear  so  ma- 
ning  tap  and,  although  I  was  hold-  ture,  I  thought  of  many  things: 
ing  you,  you  slipped  and  went  head-  The  day  we  were  wishing  on  a 
first  into  the  overflowing  barrel.  wishbone,  and   I  said,  "Well,  you 
You  were  a  dead  weight,  heavy  got  your  wish." 
for  me  to  try  and  lift  out.    I  called  You    answered,    "No,    you    got 
frantically  for  help,  but  because  of  your  wish." 
the   distance  and   the   talking  and  "But  you  got  the  head,"  I  insist- 
the  laughter,  no  one  heard  me.     I  ed,  "you  got  your  wish." 
knew  I  must  get  you  out,  and  do  You  smiled,  shyly,  "I  wished  that 
it  quickly.     Almost  immersing  my-  you  would  get  your  wish." 
self  I  reached  down  to  get  a  good  And  the  day  you  said,  "Maybe  I 
hold    on    you    and,    with    all    my  could  do  something  so  you  would 
rather  limited  strength,  pulled  you  stop  loving  me.     But  nothing  you 
to  the  surface,  coughing  and  chok-  could  ever  do  could  make  me  stop 
ing.  loving  you."