[Vol44 | May 1957 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Features Bright | Author: Murbarger]
BRIGHT BARRIER OF THE PLAINS restrained by boundary, unrestrained by law. When Father and Mother and I had emigrated west to file claim on 160 acres of land, cattle still had held the nght-of-way, and the "nester" who dared trespass on their domain might as well accept the fact that neither peace nor crops could be his until his acres were bound about by the bright, singing barrier of barbed wire. But our first summer on the homestead had found a great many tasks to be done, and pitifully little time in which to do them. With building our claim shanty, digging a well, contriving a weather-tight shed for our animals and chickens, and cutting prairie hay and juniper wood for winter, there had been no time available for constructing two miles of fence. Lacking any previous experience with range cattle, Father and Mother had been hopelessly optimistic. Even without a fence, they had supposed, we should be able to raise at least a few "kitchen vegetables"; but it soon became obvious there would be no chance to raise either blade or root. Despite all our efforts to guard against the nightly pillaging of the cattle, we had seen our thriving field of emerald green sod-corn laid to waste by their devastating greed. We had seen our young Hubbard squashes trodden to pulp under their hooves. Even Mother's brave clump of petunias and marigolds by the kitchen door, and the box elder whip Father had planted so hopefully, had met the same discouraging end. I was only a little shaver, but ['ll never forget the look that passed 319 over Mother's face the morning she stepped out the door and saw her little flower bed had been completely destroyed during the night. She had been using every drop of her kitchen waste water to keep the plants alive and blooming, and had seemed to draw a great store of strength and comfort from _ the bright flowers. And now, they were trampled into the earth as though they had never existed. "Just wait!" Father had said, reassuringly. ""Things will be different, next year!" Nodding dully, Mother had mumbled something about it being of no importance... But [ still remember the tired, beaten look in her eyes as she turned back into the shanty. UMMER is brief in the Great Plains country, and almost before we had realized what was happening, September had = sent snow whirling across the land. Throughout the long winter, the gaunt range cattle had milled and bawled around our __ tar-papered claim shack, seeking to gain whatever protection they might from the icy blizzards. Whenever we had stepped out the door, they had circled away warily, pivoting to stare at us from their wild, hollow eyes. It had been impossible not to pity their desperate hunger — even as we had resented their presence on our land — but our meager store of hay had been barely enough to carry our own animals through the long, cold months. All that winter we had _ talked about The Fence. Some of our neighboring homesteaders — either 320 less resourceful or more affluent than we — were planning to fence their claims with split cedar posts imported from the State of Washington. Our posts, however, were to be made from pine saplings cut by Father the previous autumn and hauled from the "cedar breaks," twenty miles away. During the winter evenings we had peeled the bark and scraped each post until it had shone with the white smoothness of ivory; and always, as we worked, we had made plans for the time when we might incorporate those posts into a cattle-tight barrier. At last had come spring; and as soon as the snow was well enough gone that he could find our corner monuments, Father had begun surveying our boundary, sighting from each corner marker to signal flags raised on opposite corners. Stakes had been driven along this line and posts had been strung. HEN the first week of April showed the ground to be free of frost, we had known that our long-awaited fence might, at last, be started. Despite their lack of experience with range cattle, Father and Mother had come from long lines of eastern farm folk and were thoroughly conversant with this business of fence building. As for myself, I was strictly inexperienced labor. I had been in the world but a very short while, and in that period had never built a fence, assisted in building a fence, nor even watched a fence being built. As a matter of fact, I had scarcely seen a fence in all my short life; so about all that could be expected of me was that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 I would stay out of the way at least half the time, would carry the tools and lead the horses forward from one post hole to the next; and, meanwhile, would make a reasonable effort to remain unpunctured by cactuses and unbitten by rattlesnakes. This inexperience, however, did not prevent my being terrifically interested in the operation, and every phase of development found me a fascinated spectator. When a hole had been reamed to sufficient depth with the auger, Father would insert the larger end of a post, settling it in place with a few strong blows of the sledge. Mother, using the butt end of the hammer handle, would then tamp the loose earth solidly about the post until the hole was filled and rounded. Meanwhile, Father would have begun digging a new hole, two rods beyond. At noon we sat in the shelter of the wagon and ate a cold lunch of bacon sandwiches and boiled eggs, and not until sundown did we turn homeward. By that time, we were hungry and muscle-sore, and very tired, but posts had been set for the first half mile of fence. Father said it had been a good day's work. Next morning, the barbed wire was strung — the heavy spool being threaded on an iron bar laid across the wagon box. As the horses were driven along the fence line, the spool revolved and the wire played out smoothly behind. Upon reaching the farther end of our half-mile boundary, one end of the wire was attached to the wagon wheel, the other end first having been fastened to a well-anchored corner post.