[Vol44 | May 1957 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: This Is | Author: Coles]
"This Is My Baby" Christie Lund Coles OU were so pretty standing } before me in your pink and black skirt, and your trim, little pink blouse. Your eyes were like blue delphiniums, and your fair skin took on some of the pinkness of your clothes. You looked little more than a child yourself as you reminded me quite emphatically, "This is my baby," in answer to a suggestion I had made, telling me that you were responsible for my adorable granddaughter. "That is right," I replied, "would you like some cookies and milk? We can give Anna graham cracker." You hesitated briefly, then accepted, smiling. We went into the kitchen to sit at the table where the sun made the yellow curtains more yellow, and the flowers on the sill shone in leaf and bud. We ate together while Ann did a delightful job of getting the cracker any place except in her mouth. We watched her in delight until her eyes became heavy, and you said you should take her home for her nap. "Couldn't she nap here, just once?" I asked. Sorry for your abrupt words, you smiled, agreeing, "I suppose so." And together we put chairs around the bed in your room which still stands the way you left it. I went out, you stayed a moment. You came out and sat opposite me in the blue mohair chair. You took out the socks you were knitting for Jim, the intricate heels Page 298 which you were determined to conquer. My heart went out to you in love and tenderness. I thought of the many times through the years when you had sat in that same chair: when you were very small, curled up in it; when you were larger, and there was company, and you would sit primly — in your best dress, and patent-leather slippers — your feet not quite touching the floor; when you were in high school. We talked a little as I crocheted a new edge on a white linen hankie. We didn't talk loudly because Ann is a light sleeper and we didn't want to awaken her. It was enough for me just to have you there. As I thought of the baby's coming, I remembered when you were born. The doctors had told me I shouldn't have a child because of my heart, badly damaged by years of semi-invalidism from rheumatic fever. But I wasn't afraid. My want of you transcended all fear. Even during the difficult and long birth, when even the doctor was fright: ened, I did not lose faith. When you were born, I saw your delicate head, your gray-blue eyes, your slim fingers that touched mine and made me forever your slave, and knew you were worth it all and much, much more. I thought fondly and swiftly of my own birth and my dear mother. I told myself again, we were all a part of this new and wonderful life. Ann is not yours, "THIS IS MY BABY" I recalled how much I had loved you how I had sat by your crib and actually wept in gratitude, seeing you asleep, touching your hair, and glad because you were so perfect, so sweet. GOON you were walking. For a time we lived in the same apartment house as my mother and father. They were just above us. You used to climb the stairs some mornings before I was awake and tell grandma you wanted hotcakes. I'm sure she and grandpa loved you just as I love Ann. 'There was never enough they could do for you. And you were dear to Daddy's parents also though we were not as close to them. But I recall one day we were at their home in the country. It was some holiday and all the family was there, sitting around in the back yard visiting. You had followed the dog to the front lawn and, naturally, I had followed you. The flowing well was at the top of the lawn near the fence and it ran constantly into a large barrel sunk into the ground. You leaned over to take a drink from the running tap and, although I was holding you, you slipped and went headfirst into the overflowing barrel. You were a dead weight, heavy for me to try and lift out. I called frantically for help, but because of the distance and the talking and the laughter, no one heard me. I knew I must get you out, and do it quickly. Almost immersing myself I reached down to get a good hold on you and, with all my rather limited strength, pulled you to the surface, coughing and choking. 299 I took you into the house to dry you. What did you do? You looked into the long mirror and said, "All my curls are gone." And indeed they were, the curls we had worked so hard putting in that morning. "There will be lots of other curls," I whispered, gathering you into my arms, "lots of curls." You saved me from drowning later. And I, who was afraid of a tiny spider — once chased a tarantula all over the bed to protect you. There was the time, in another strange town, when your father was away, when we were ill at the same time, without a loaf of bread in the house, and with no phone to order any. But we managed. And we had fun fun. Until you were a big girl, you would ask me to sing to you after we were in bed. With the doors open between our rooms, I would sing sometimes for an hour, or until I was too hoarse to sing any longer. And there were nights when we were both nervous, and you would come and crawl into my bed. Today, as I looked at you across the room, trying to appear so mature, I thought of many things: The day we were wishing on a wishbone, and I said, "Well, you got your wish." You answered, your wish." "But you got the head," I insisted, "you got your wish." You smiled, shyly, "I wished that you would get your wish." And the day you said, "Maybe I could do something so you would stop loving me. But nothing you could ever do could make me stop loving you." "No, you got 300 Is it any wonder that I love you so very, very much? Wm OK OK OK OK recalled when Jim came along. He was a fine, good boy from down the street. It didn't seem serious at first. You went together for neatly two years. After he finished college, he asked to marry you. We thought you were too young — nearly nineteen — but you said you knew what you wanted, and since our wish for your happiness was sincere, we consented. The temple ceremony was beautiful and sacred and the wedding reception was lovely. Your dress was hand-sewn. I'm sure there has never been a lovelier, more radiantly beautiful bride. When the receiving was over and you cut your wedding cake, I sat at the side and watched you serving grandmas and aunts. I had not wept. But as you moved back toward the table, for just the fraction of a moment your eyes moved to mine with a sort of frightened, seeking expression. You stood as though you were about to run toward me, and I felt that I must run toward you and take you in my arms. But you went on and I turned my head. And cried—just a little. K ek Ke Kk OK "Oh, dear, I dropped a stitch," you said, furrowing your smooth brow, "Can you help me?" "Tm not too good at it, you know, but I'll try," I told you, remembering the shawl] I had begun before Ann was born and never quite finished — though I still had hopes. As though you knew what I was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 thinking, you smiled, "You may not believe it, but I'm going to finish these. He may not be able to wear them but they'll be knitted." "He'll wear them," I assured you, "you ll see." As you moved toward me the sunlight touched your almost transparent, fair skin, and I asked, "Are you sure your blood is up all right now? Do you feel all right?" "Never better. Actually, [I'm fime:" % Ok OK K OK GUDDENLY, I was seeing you when you were pregnant, seeing you pass the big living room window in your cute, blue-checked smock, carrying your white purse as only a little girl playing house could possibly carry it, coming in smiling as we rushed to kiss you. And the day before the baby was born, you said to me, "I think I'll drive out to Rita's tomorrow and spend the day." "Oh, no," I cried, "tomorrow's when the baby is due. You mustn't take any chances driving that far. Something might happen." "Oh, Tl be all right," sured me. But I wasn't that easily put off. I insisted, "Promise me you won't," You finally promised, then rose to leave. You kissed me a bit longer than usual that day, clung to me, and I knew you were frightened. I assured you, "It will be just fine. Don't worry." At a quarter to eight the next morning the phone rang. It was Jim. You two had been at the hospital since midnight. Now you were in the delivery room and we could come out. Your Daddy went pale, and I trembled as I got ready, you as- "THIS lS MY BABY" all the time saying a prayer over and over. We were in the waiting room for nearly an hour. Daddy had an appointment in Lake City to meet the manager of his company at the train. He kept saying, "I don't want to go, but I'm afraid I'll have to." Everything had gone fine, so we told him he had better go, and regretfully, he did. Shortly afterward, a nurse came into the room and said there were too many in the waiting room, and all except the fathers would have to go downstairs in the lobby. Jim's mother and I went reluctantly. It was in that half hour that we were gone that they brought you out, and word was sent to us that we could see you. When I walked into your room, you were very pale, but your eyes were bright and you said, "Oh, Mama, you should have been here. When they wheeled me out they put her in my arms and let me carry her down the hall. Oh, she's so sweet." I thought of when we had first reached the hospital and Jim and his mother had been talking about the name for the baby if it were a boy. I said, "Now, just think how badly she's going to feel about all this planning for a boy." I kissed you, whispering, "Of course she is sweet. Now, you must rest." FE, two mothers left. In the hall we met your doctor who asked if we had seen the baby. When we said, "No," he took us to the nursery. He went in, asked for your baby, brought it to the 301 door for us to see. I fell in love with her then. We came back to your room. I could see you were in pain, and I asked the nurse about it. She said it was natural and you would be fine. Still, I turned at the door to look at you, thinking, she's paler now than when we came in. About noon, I called your room. I was ready to hang up when you told me the doctor was there. But he wanted to speak to me. He said, trying to make his voice casual, "You and her husband might come out within half an hour or so. It is nothing to worry about." In spite of his casualness, after a moment I knew he meant that there was trouble. You had looked so pale and tired. Jim and I knelt down and prayed together before we left, and I felt sure you would be ell right. Later, when you came out of the operating room, you were very pale and in pain. I could have stayed. But I knew you needed rest... Rest. And if I stayed Jim's mother would stay, too, and it might be too much for you. I left, my heart straining back to you, and your pain which I had no power to ease. It seemed no time at all until someone was at my front door. It was Jim's mother. She said the hospital had been unable to reach me and had called her. You had to have another operation. I stood trembling and managed to say, "I can't I can't go this minute. I will be out as soon as possible." Alone, I prayed, then called my mother in Lake City, where your 302 father had gone, told her to try and get in touch with him. I sobbed on the telephone, "I can't bear to have anything happen to her."" My mother wept. I knew that nothing could keep me from the hospital. I called a friend, and she said she would be right over to take me out. I didn't think of a taxi, and I suppose the reason was that I needed a friend so badly. 'The ten minutes I waited seemed an eternity. HEN I got to the hospital, I met the doctor and a specialist he had called in to help him, in the hall. "How is she?" I whispered. "She is in her room. If this doesn't help, we'll have to do something more drastic." "It must help," I whispered. I went to your room where you still lay. 'There was a blood transfusion (your fourth) in one arm, glucose in the other, and oxygen in your nose. You managed part of your wonderful smile, and I stroked back your hair — from which the curl had gone — and thought of you passing the big window carrying your white purse; thought of the time as a child when you were strong and insisted on stirring my cake batter, saying, "Dll be your electric beater." I kissed you, and not meaning to, let a tear fall on your cheek. 'Then I turned and walked out of the room. Soon, Jim's mother came out and admonished me not to let you see me cry. I nodded. You weren't her child. You asked me later why I cried, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 and I smiled, saying, "I was sorry that you had to go back into the operating room, and sorry I didn't get there sooner. But everything's just fine. Just fine." KR KR OK HAT was months ago. Now you are sitting opposite me, well and strong again. You said, "She's stirring. Do you want to get her?" I nodded, rising, going toward the room which would always be yours. You were close behind me, however, for her every waking moment was a wonder to us all. We entered the room. She looked at us with her lovely eyes. I reached my arms out to her. But she turned and reached for you instead. Just as she still does when she first wakens or is tired or unhappy. Grandma is wonderful at other times, but in these moments, you are the one she wants. Suddenly as I watched you lift her to your shoulder, I knew with a strange pang that what you had said was true. She was indeed your baby. You had paid for her with your travail, just as I had paid for you. But it was infinitely more than that. All of my thinking and remembering had proved not my point, but yours. 'There is birth, and there is something else, knit by the moments and the hours that no one else ever shares. I said, "Yes, my darling, she is your baby." To myself I thought, But she will not always be. And that, too, is as it should be. As it must be if the world is to go on. Don Knight THE GRAND TETONS AND JACKSON LAKE, WYOMING - >-- Dawn Sylvia Probst Young Crimson streaked and gold is dawn, Lifting through the gray, Dew-bathed rose, and winging bird— Harbinger of day. Lift your eyes to wood and field, Look to rock-ribbed hill. In the gentle, waking hour, All is hushed and still— Peace be thine, oh, tired heart, Now the night is gone— God has willed it shall be so, After darkness—dawn!