[Vol44 | May 1957 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Features Womans CAnnon]
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. REED H. (AURELIA PYPER) RICHARDS, an active Latter-day Saint woman, a native of Salt Lake City, was recently named "U. S. Lady of the Year" by the magazine U. S. Lady, which is devoted to problems of servicemen's wives. On the selection committee were the wives of the Secretaries of Defense, Army, Navy, Air Force, and other service leaders. Her husband is Lt. Col. Reed H. Richards, also a Latter-day Saint, formerly of Salt Lake City, now of Fort Bragg, North Carolina. 'The couple has seven adopted children. Mrs. Richards won enthusiastic personal approval on her national television broadcast, following this honor. RITISH Betty E. Box is a noted producer of motion picture films in England. LENE DALTON, Salt Lake City's nationally famous Story Princess, told the story, "The Littlest Angel," on a national television broadcast, December 23. 'The N. A. Donohue Company, Chicago, has recently published a book of Mrs. Dalton's original stories, The Story Princess Stories, charmingly told and beautifully illustrated. Page 305 ee DIT ORIAL m2 VOL. 


 NO. 5 Pen in #land HE woman who takes her pen in hand to weave her thoughts into words enters an infinite world of far-reaching influence and_ significance. Her poem or her story may reach the hearts of thousands whom she has never seen, and their spirits may be enlightened and uplifted— may be changed and _ enriched— through the new patterns woven with familiar words. All the words of the language are ready for the writer to use—all the singing words, all the beckoning words, all the profound words. It is for the woman with her pen in hand to make the new patterns and to mark those patterns with the signature of her own personality, the depth and beauty of her thoughts; it is for her to communicate the meaning of life as it has been given her to understand the worth and the purpose of her days upon the earth. Poetry, as song, was the first form of literature, and it has become a heritage of harmony, singing through the centuries. It partakes of music in its sweep of rhythm; it is like sculpture in its use of form; and it is allied to painting in color and perspective vision. A great and good poem draws its richness from many sources, and may be compared to a precious tapestry of muted or glowing colors, symbolic of the spirit in its everlasting. Search for eternal values. Fictional and imaginative stories Page 306 have been told since time began, and in the scattering of the people, each land developed its epics and sagas, its small romantic legends, its great heroic narratives. Set in its framework of historic perception, the short story can be more than plot and people, more than problems and solutions. In presenting its illuminated segment of life, the story may unify, with the power of words, the discordant threads of earthly existence, and in its revealing design, the story may beckon its reader to heights of spiritual understanding not visible before. The ability to weave a tapestry of words is a precious gift—worthy of use and development. The strands for the weaving are endless, and their colors may be patterned in the aspirations and the hopes of women through the ages. Consider the natural world, the beautiful and ever-revealing earth, which the Heavenly Father has given us for our sojourn in time and for our habitation in eternity. Portraits of earth's loveliness may be made with words — perhaps the inspiration may come from a flower or a bird, or the greening hills of home. A writer may speak of the unfolding ways of children, the emotions of a mother's heart, the lasting communion of friendship, the abiding thoughts of maturity, the wise expanse of the minds of the aged.