[Vol44 | May 1957 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Poem | Title: Spring | Author: Woolsey]
[Spring Sabbath Dorothy J. Roberts 302 Dawn Sylvia Probst Young 303 Signal Sun Maryhale Woolsey]
every  spring  and  fall  for  airing  and 
cleaning.  The  contents  were  most 
fascinating.  There  was  the  red 
plush  family  album,  with  pictures 
dating  back  to  the  old  country,  the 
stern  faces  of  our  ancestors,  the 
women  with  severe  hair-dos,  and 
dark  men  with  foreboding  mus- 
taches. There  was  an  account  book 
kept  by  my  grandmother  when  she 
ran  a  store,  soon  after  arriving  in 
the  valley  in  i860;  baby  clothes 
that  had  belonged  to  my  mother; 
and,   added    to    these   relics,   were

322  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY  1957 
treasures  of  mine  and  my  children,  life  and  the  heritage  she  had  left 
The  former  things  had  outlived  any  us,  and  then  decided  on  the  garb- 
sentiment  for  any  but  me,  and  the  age  man  as  holding  the  fate  of  the 
top  of  the  trunk  was  rent  and  bent,  trunk. 
The  bottom  was  worn  through  with  The    curb   was   piled   high   with 
rust,  and  I  knew  it  wouldn't  stand  refuse.    I  carried  the  trunk  out  and 
the  long  trip  to  California.     What  put  it  beside  the  other  items.  I  was 
to  do  with  it  was  something  to  pon-  still  disturbed  about  leaving  it.  The 
der.  garbage  truck  was  almost  full  when 
The  relics  were  finally  stored  in  it  arrived  at  our  place,  so  the  man 
a  stout  box  and  labeled.     I  set  the  was  only  able  to  take  about  half  of 
trunk  to  one  side,  still  thinking  of  the  things.     The  trunk  went  with 
its  disposal.     The  time  was  going  the  first  load.     I  felt  a  little  easier 
by  fast,  and  my  husband  had  warned  after  it  left  and  decided  to  forget  it 
me    about    taking   anything    super-  and  lock  my  storehouse  of  memories 
fluous.     Surely,  the  trunk  was  just  for  the  time  being, 
that.    Silly  to  be  so  sentimental.  A  half  hour  after  the  departure 
Many  times  the  stories  had  been  of    the    garbage    truck    the    phone 
recounted  about  my  grandmother's  rang.     It  was  my  aunt  from  out  in 
trip  across  the  plains.     I  could  see  the  country,  my  grandmother's  old- 
her   as   a  young  girl   of   seventeen  est  living  daughter.     I  had  forgot- 
pushing    a    handcart    all    the    way,  ten  that  she  might  be  interested  in 
with    her    belongings    in    the    tin  the  trunk.    ''Whatever  you  do,"  she 
trunk.  said,  ''don't  dispose  of  the  old  tin 
Grandmother  had  been  a  small  trunk.  .  .  .  You  know  that  trunk 
person,  with  shining  brown  eyes  is  over  one  hundred  years  old,  was 
filled  with  love  and  compassion  for  purchased  in  London,  and  carried 
everyone  and  everything.  She  was  all  of  mother's  belongings  as  she 
the  idol  of  her  large  posterity.  Her  pushed  it  across  the  plains." 
lovely,  well-kept  home  was  a  sanctu-  My  heart  sank.  I  stammered  out, 
ary  for  all  who  entered  it.  Every-  almost  incoherently,  the  details  of 
thing  about  her  was  famous  to  all  the  disposal.  I  assured  her  that  I 
of  us.  Her  currant  biscuits,  flowers,  would  do  everything  to  get  it  back, 
and  genuine  hospitality  were  known  "It  belongs  in  the  museum,"  she 
throughout  the  State.  The  hard-  said.  Of  course  it  did,  why  hadn't 
ships  she  had  borne  rested  lightly  I  thought  of  that? 
on  her  shoulders,  as  her  great  faith  Fortunately,  the  garbage  man  re- 
carried  her  on  to  higher  achieve-  turned  for  the  second  load.  I 
ments.  rushed  out  when  he  came  back  and 
We  loved  to  hear  her  tell  of  her  told  him  of  my  plight.  He  told  me 
trip  across  the  plains  with  its  dang-  that  he  had  thought  it  an  unusual 
ers  and  privations.    Now  the  trunk  old   piece  and  had   put  it  to  one 
was  one  of  the  last  links  with  that  side  and  would  bring  it  back  to  me. 
great  migration.     However,  it  was  I  paid  him  for  his  trouble,  and  the 
useless  now  and  could  do  no  good  trunk   was    returned    to    repose    in 
to  anyone,  as  I  thought.  I  breathed  the  museum  as  its  rightful  place  of 
a  little  prayer  of  gratitude  for  her  abode.

The  Bright  Star 
Chapter  3 
Doiothy  S.  Romney 
Synopsis:  Kathy  Tracy,  an  orphan,  who 
wishes  to  become  an  artist,  Hves  with  her 
Aunt  Emerald  Jewel  Tracy  in  an  old- 
fashioned  house  overlooking  San  Fran- 
cisco Bay.  In  order  to  help  with  house- 
hold expenses,  Kathy  has  applied  to  a 
neighbor,  Phineas  Fenton,  who  owns  a 
shipping  line,  for  employment,  and  is 
promised  a  position  in  his  San  Francisco 
office  building.  In  the  meantime,  how- 
ever. Aunt  Emerald  has  a  partial  stroke, 
and  Kathy  gives  up  the  position  she  has 
been  promised.  Jim  Parker,  in  love  with 
Kathy,  suggests  an  immediate  marriage, 
but  Kathy  declines.  During  Aunt  Em's 
illness  she  mentions,  incoherently,  some- 
thing about  money  in  a  Chinese  chest 
which  they  keep  in  Grandfather  Tracy's 
China  house. 
KATHY  walked  up  the  steep 
hill  toward  the  Fenton  man- 
sion. The  wind  blew  chill 
through  the  lightweight  sweater  she 
had  hurriedly  put  on.  The  Fentons 
would  be  inside  in  front  of  the  fire 
on  this  cold  evening. 
She  rang  the  bell  timidly,  and 
was  told  by  Tina,  the  maid,  to  go 
into  the  library.  Old  Phineas  was 
dozing  in  front  of  an  open  fire,  his 
pink-skinned  cheeks  lax.  Kathy  sat 
stiffly  on  the  edge  of  the  chair  and 
waited.  Suddenly  the  old  man  sat 
up  straight  and  blinked  his  hard, 
blue  eyes  until  he  was  awake.  He 
looked  at  her  with  the  round-eyed 
stare  of  an  infant. 
''Hmm,"  he  barked,  'what  do  you 
want?" 
'1  don't  want  anything,''  Kathy 
replied.  ''I  came  to  tell  you  I 
won't  be  able  to  accept  that  job  you 
offered  me  yesterday." 
'7ob!  Job!  What  job?" 
''Why,  the  job  you  promised  me 
in  one  of  your  office  buildings  in 
San  Francisco,"  she  explained. 
"Oh,"  the  old  man  grunted,  and 
Kathy  had  a  feeling  his  memory 
wasn't  as  spry  as  he  pretended  it  to 
be  —  that  for  all  his  past  brilliant 
career  and  present  riches,  he  was 
sinking  down  into  a  vague,  unre- 
membering,  selfish  childishness. 
He  scrutinized  her  closely.  Kathy 
sat  quietly  and  waited.  Finally  he 
spoke.  "Now  where  did  Old  Em 
get  a  pretty  girl  like  you?  Did  a 
good  job  when  she  picked  you  up." 
'Tm  her  brother's  daughter," 
Kathy  explained  patiently.  "He  died 
before  my  mother  did.  She  died 
when  I  was  born." 
Old  Phin  threw  his  head  back 
against  the  red  leather  of  his  easy 
chair  and  roared.  "A  likely  story. 
Jon  Tracy  never  had  but  one  chick 
or  child,  and  that  one  was  Miss 
Emerald  Jewel  Tracy  herself." 
Behind  her,  Kathy  heard  the  soft 
voice  of  Grace  Fenton.  "Why,  Fa- 
ther, what  are  you  saying?  Don't 
pay  any  attention  to  him,"  she 
whispered  to  the  girl.  "He's  getting 
so  old  he  doesn't  remember  things 
rightly." 
I  was  right,  he  is  forgetful,  and 
ril  take  Grace's  advice  and  not  pay 
any  attention,  Kathy  told  herself 
firmly.  She  said  her  goodbyes  and 
started  for  the  front  door. 
As  she  walked  down  the  path, 
Old  Phineas'  words  ran  through  her 
Page  323

324 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY  1957 
mind  again.  ''She  did  a  good  job 
when  she  picked  you  up."  Just  as 
though  Aunt  Em  had  walked  up  to 
a  batch  of  new  kittens  and  taken 
the  pick  of  the  basket. 
Kathy  was  inchned  to  dismiss  the 
whole  thing,  but  still,  this  might 
explain  many  past  incidents.  Why 
Miss  Em— Aunt  Em,  had  always 
been  evasive  when  Kathy  asked  to 
see  pictures  of  her  parents,  or 
mementoes  of  the  past.  'Tlease, 
Kathy,  not  now,"  had  been  her  un- 
changing answer. 
TZATHY  searched  the  memories  of 
her  early  childhood.  No,  there 
had  never  been  anyone  but  Aunt 
Em  who  cared  for  her.  Tears  stung 
her  eyes.  She  was  remembering  the 
countless  number  of  times  Aunt 
Em  had  sewed  through  the  night 
so  that  she,  Kathy,  might  have  some 
luxury  their  meager  budget  couldn't 
afford.  And  her  graduation  dress!
