[Vol44 | May 1957 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Home | Title: Recipes | Author: Engebretse]
RECIPES FROM THE NORWEGIAN MISSION 313 Sauce: % Ib. Butter 1 tbsp. Whole pepper (unground) % \b. White flour Melt the butter and blend in the flour. Thin with strained broth. To this sauce, add a layer of meat, and then a layer of washed, cut cabbage, then another layer of meat, and so on, until cabbage and meat have been placed in the sauce. Add the pepper (may be tied in small linen bag). Simmer, with lid on, until tender (at least three hours). LapPsKAUS 1 Ib. Salted side meat (pork) 1 small onion 1 Ib. Lean beef salt to taste "2 Ib. Pork fat pepper to taste 1% qt. Potatoes water The lean beef, pork fat, and potatoes are diced, covered with water, and put on to cook. The finely chopped onion, salt, and pepper are added to taste. Boil, under lid, for about one and one-half hours. The salted side pork should be added after the meat has boiled for one-half hour. This dish has a stew-like consistency. You Cannot LEAVE ME ALONE 2 eggs "' ¢. Cold water 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 c. Cream 1 env. Unflavored gelatine 72 tsp. Vanilla Sprinkle gelatine in the cold water to soften. Place on heat to melt. Whip the eggs and mix them with the melted gelatine. Stir slightly until mixture thickens. Pour into a glass bowl and cover with raspberries, strawberries, or other berries or fruit. 'Then cover with whipped cream. > Potition Grace Barker Wilson I did not ask for sun to shine Along my way, But took the brightness or the gloom Day after day. I did not ask that all of joy Should come to me, But laughed or wept as time went on, Impartially. But for my child, I beg the road Be not too rough. Could not for her a few, brief tears Be just enough? The Third House Down Florence B. Dunford HE first Grace Warren knew that their neighbors, across the street and the third house down, were moving was when she saw it in the morning Chronicle. She looked across the breakfast table in the small perfectly appointed dining room at her husband. "I'om, the Normans down the street are moving to California. 'The Whites had a neighborhood party for them last night." Tom, one of those good-looking homely men, looked up from his half of the paper. "Oh. How come they didn't invite us?" "I guess because we're not friends of the Normans," Grace said. "Well, really, we scarcely know them at all." Grace was slight of build, and blonde, perhaps a little shy. But not really shy, she acknowledged to herself. People, she thought, just any people, were sometimes too much trouble to bother with. Still. She looked down at the social item again. "The Kains were there," she went on. The Kains lived on the east of Tom and Grace, a house farther away from the Normans than themselves. Still, Betty Kain was more Janis Norman's age than was she, Grace. She read a little farther. ""The Moores were there, too." 'The Moores lived directly across the street; they were much older than even she and Tom. "I saw Olive and Dr. Moore going down the street last night," Grace said. "They were all dressed up. I wondered where they were going." Page 314 As though he detected the odd note of distress in her voice, 'Tom said, "Ihe Moores are friends of the Whites, aren't they?" 'The Whites were the ones who gave the party. "Yes, of course," Grace said quickly. She brushed at an imaginary hair on her forehead. Really, for the last of August it was quite warm. It was not jealousy, of course. 'The Whites, who gave the party, were a young couple, younger than the Normans, who were moving. All of which added up to the fact, Grace had to admit, that age has little to do with friendship. The thought of the Normans moving away, and all the way to California, arose disturbingly in Grace's mind several times that day. When Mrs.