[Vol44 | May 1957 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Home | Title: Herbs | Author: Williamson]
Herbs for Modern Cookery Garuic (ALLIuM SativuM) Elizabeth Williamson ARLIC is a perennial herb. Set the cloves out in early spring, two inches apart, in rich soil. Harvest them in August. If you produce a large crop, braid the dried garlic, stems, and cloves. Hang this attractive addition in your kitchen, where it is convenient for your cookery. Garlic is one of the most ancient herbs — probably originating around the Mediterranean area, but grown in rich soil all over the world. I Homer mentions garlic in the Odyssey. He says it was used to ward off evil spirits. We all know a whiff of garlic gives zest to salads, sauces, roasts, and vegetables. Garlic is a must for salad dressings of the French type. Never overdo garlic—it ls delightful when suggested — but many people dislike the actual flavor. GUACAMOLE AND VARIATIONS 1 large avocado 1 crushed garlic clove, minced very fine or put in a garlic crusher Lemon juice, salt, and pepper to taste. Peel and mash the avocado, add the rest of the ingredients. Serve with crackers, tortillas, or sliced tomatoes. A variation of guacamole which is pretty served as an appetizer is the addition of one large package of cream cheese and a little mayonnaise. Whip the mixture in your electric mixer until very smooth and creamy and a beautiful pale green. Serve in a bowl for a cracker dip. ~Loneleness Vesta N. Lukei Tonight, perhaps on some far isle That I have never seen, awhile You watch the lonely, moving moon And think how brightly and how soon That silver orb will arch the skies And be reflected in my eyes. But cold, uncaring, high above, It brings no message from my love. > EF Love a Window Caroline Eyring Miner I love a window to the east; I love to lift my eyes And look upon another day In glory of sunrise! I love to see the earth I know In magic glow and fire.

It lifts my spirit to the skies And makes me aim the higher. Ee BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover.