This, in conjunction with all the emphasis that has been placed on the importance of the home in the teachings and sermons which our prophets and leaders have given to our people throughout all the history of the Church, comprises a homemaking heritage more precious than all the material luxuries that money can buy. Three factors necessary to the preservation and enhancement of our family-life heritage are: first, to develop a well-balanced attitude in regard to the value and importance of home life as a vital factor in our culture; second, to possess a desire for the highest type of home life, which naturally implies a willingness to sacrifice and work for the fulfillment of our desires; third, to spend time and effort in study and research concerning family life. Let us consider, 749  as far as time will permit, each one of these three factors. Let us consider first the value of a well-balanced attitude in regard to home life. It is accepted as a fact that the family is our oldest social institution. It has always carried on such fundamental responsibilities as propagation, economic cooperation, and the rearing of children. Home and family is the center of our complete cultural pattern; it occupies the strategic position in the entire social scheme. This is true, largely, because of the fact that the foundation of the structure of human personality is laid in early childhood, and the family is both the architect and the contractor in charge of this construction. It is true, also, because of the fact that the home has social as well as private aspects—it serves society itself in innumerable ways; it serves husband and wife, and it serves children. Unless homemakers, fathers and mothers, appreciate the importance of the position that the home holds in our civilization, we cannot hope to preserve this precious domestic heritage. The second important factor is to possess a desire for a high-type family life sufficiently strong to carry with it a willingness to sacrifice and work for it. In our desire to build this high-type home, which will serve as the foundation for righteous living, we should be wary of a most common danger—one that causes constant nagging and unhappiness in many homes—the attempt to make one's home a duplicate of the home built by and for another family group for its particular situation. Let us strive for the type of home which will be ideal for our family group according to our circum- 750 stances, realizing that if a home provides for the fullest possible development of the personality of each member of the family and brings happiness into the life of each member, that home is relatively an ideal home, regardless of its lack of similarity to some other home which appeals to us as being ideal. Most students of the family would agree that the criteria by which we might measure the degree of attainment toward an ideal home for any particular family is the effectiveness with which the family adjusts itself to the needs of the members and to the demands of the social environment. The realization of such an achievement is possible only through the intelligent and cooperative expenditure of time, effort and sacrifice on the part of all members of the family. In other words, successful home life does not just happen; it is gained as a result of intelligent study, conscious planning, work and sacrifice, The third essential factor in the preservation and development of our domestic heritage is the study of family life. Study and investigation is the nearest approach to a short cut for help along this line. E do not wish to minimize the value of experience as a guide for home life, rather we would emphasize the fact that those who have developed the ability to profit by the experiences of others, as well as by their own, are indeed fortunate. However, what we can learn from experience is necessarily much more limited than what we can learn through study. It was Coleridge who said, "Io most men experience is like the stern lights of a ship, which 

 

 illumine only the track it has passed." However great the value of experience, its value will be enhanced if we are equipped with the necessary knowledge and understanding to intelligently meet, interpret, and evaluate the various experiences which make up our daily living. To depend wholly upon learning from experience to serve as counselors in family life represents an extravagance not to be tolerated by the wise and efficient. As parents, you would be surprised and shocked if you knew the large number of young folk who seek information and advice concerning marriage and family life from someone outside of their home circle, because of the fact that their own parents take the attitude: "Well, what we know we had to learn from experience, because we had no time or opportunity to study. We have succeeded fairly well; therefore, our children can do the same." Does not that attitude exemplify a shirking of the responsibility of parents to prepare their offspring to function as the parents of the future? It isa major duty of each generation to assume the responsibility of enriching the social heritage of the succeeding generation. This is true with regard to the family more than with any other institution in society. If the family heritage which we pass on to the next generation is not superior to that which we inherited from the past generation, we will be held in great guilt, because no generation of parents has had at its disposal as much excellent material and as many opportunities to study family life. Let every parent be aware of the fact that as soon as son or daughter comes to think of Dad or Mother as RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE being old-fashioned, behind the times in his or her ideas and advice, Dad and Mother will be relegated to the position of counselors in name only. On the other hand, the parent who has kept up to date in his knowledge, enjoys a real thrill in seeing the child's reaction when he discovers that Dad or Mother can lead out in up-to-date information; and what is more important, such an experience automatically builds up confidence between parent and child and opens wide the door for future approaches for information and advice. The parent who takes the attitude that there is no longer any need for him to study family life will never enjoy such an experience. I feel that we cannot emphasize too forcibly the fact that the study of home life is vitally important for the older mothers and fathers as well as the younger ones. With their richer and more varied experiences in life, they are in a position to profit greatly from such study. They should be prepared and willing to stand staunch and firm as the guideposts. For future family life. It is they who must serve as the balancewheel in controlling, as far as possible, the disorganizing influences of the constant social changes with 751 which we must cope. There is always danger that the younger generation may go too far toward extremes, that they may be too ready to throw overboard many of the things that have been tried and tested and found valuable, and to accept too many of the untried, untested innovations and thus lose some of otr cultural values. The older folk, then, must function as the conservative force; and in order to do so, they must keep up to date in their information. It is encouraging and of great social significance to learn that large numbers of younger mothers and fathers are showing marked interest in the study of family life and are enjoying the fruits of their efforts. On the other hand, where we find parents struggling desperately, without training or preparation for their responsibility, to solve the many problems which arise in every home, we find one of the greatest wastages we have in social life. The economy involved in the study of family life is the saving of time and energy, the enhancement of health and happiness, and the development of adequately adjusted personalities and family groups. EACHING BY DISCUSSING Dr. Billie Hollingshead Brigham Young University  THE REQUISITES TO TEACHING BY DISCUSSING ARE: 1. Thorough preparation by both the teacher and the class. Without this preparation by both teacher and class there is present the current evil of "trying to arrive at collective wisdom through combining individual ignorance." 

 —NOVEMBER, 1940

 5. A review, summary, or some sort of brief reproduction of the materials to be discussed. In case the teacher is prepared but the class is not, the teacher should present the materials by lecturing, showing of films, letting the class read, reading with the class, or some other such means, as a background for the ensuing discussion.  Consideration of the materials from the viewpoints of its meaning, the correct interpretation, the significance, and application of the principles therein. An example of a topic that may be successfully discussed from such viewpoints is the subject of tithing; the revelation concerning which, given to Joseph Smith, may be found in Section 119 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Certain characteristics as follows: a. Intellectual honesty—which may be explained by stating that a person to be intellectually honest, must think according to his best information and judgment concerning a topic, rather than what he would merely like to believe about that subject. B. Academic freedom—in other words, one must be free to be not only intellectually honest, but he also must be free to express that honesty without fear of unjust reprisals by any group. C. Spirituality—and a desire to help oneself to see everything that is "virtuous, lovely, praiseworthy, and of good report," as well as to help the other members of the class. A striking example in which a person demanded the right to be intellectually honest, academically free, and to express his spirituality may be found in the behavior of Joseph Smith with respect to his visions. Participation evoked by the asking of pivotal questions. A. Questions that will evoke discussion incorporate such terms as: How, why, explain, apply, compare, contrast, and what are the effects, implications, lessons, meanings, or significances, et cetera. B. Such questions must be made out beforehand. They also must be definite, clear-cut, and simply worded. C. Teacher must carry air of confidence that questions can be answered. D. There should be varied participation among the class members. The names of people answering the questions should not be called before the question is posed. The teacher must not dominate the thought nor monopolize the time. A discussion should be a mutual learning situation between the class and the teacher.. Avoidance of serious digressions.  JI. SoME PRACTICAL VARIATIONS OF THE DISCUSSION METHOD ARE: I, N 5- SoME CURRENT ABUSES IN THE USE OF THE DISCUSSION METHOD ARE: III. 1. Forum—in which there is a prepared speech; then the audience may ask questions.. Interview—in which an expert is questioned by one or more people.. Symposium—in which there are several prepared speeches bv a group of people; then questions by the audience. There must be no rehearsals, nor must any member of the group know what another is going to say.. Panel discussion—This resembles the symposium except that there are no set speeches. There is a chairman who gets things started, keeps them going, passes the questions on to others. 'There are no rehearsals; but the style is conversational, and each speaker reacts to the thought of the last speaker. At the end, the audience may question the group. Informal debates.. Lack of preparation—especially in knowing the materials, and the preparing of questions beforehand.. Ignoring opportunities not in the plan. 3. Dogmatic, narrow-minded, one-sided attitude of the teacher who E are emphasizing, espectally in rejects all responses not personally approved of.. Permitting serious digressions.. Employing no variation of method.