PUBLIC WELFARE PROVISIONS Vera W. Pohlman General Secretary-Treasurer WELFARE provisions in general relate to three large groups, classified broadly as dependents, delinquents, and defectives. I shall not attempt, in these few moments, to discuss provisions relating to delinquents and defectives—whose care is largely institutional. Time will permit only a very brief summary of public welfare provisions for the dependents—who are assisted usually in their homes. In Utah, and in other states where members of the Church represent a fairly large proportion of the total population, the Government and the Church are the two largest distributors of relief to those who are unemployed or otherwise unable to maintain themselves and their fam- ilies. Because many people in need and distress appeal to both the Government and the Church for assistance, the work of these two agencies often meets and even overlaps, and therefore it is important that each should understand, in general, the objectives, scope, and procedures of the other. In fact, it is doubly important for those engaged in Church welfare work to understand the public welfare provisions and to cooperate with public agencies in their administration, because the members of the Church contribute to the support of both the public and the Church relief systems. They help to support public welfare measures when they pay property, income, and sales taxes; they contribute to the Church welfare plan when they pay fast offerings and tithing, when they make donations to the Relief Society, and when they otherwise further Church welfare by giving their services, commodities, or additional funds. Therefore, members of the Church are vitally interested in the intelligent and efficient administration of both Government and Church welfare funds. They do not want to see their tax-dollar spent to meet the same need in the same family which has already been met by their Church contributions, or vice versa. According to the 1940 edition of the Bishop's Handbook, "faithful members of the Church should receive first consideration by the bishopric of the ward and the Relief Society" in the matter of assistance from the Church, but inactive members are designated as the responsibility of the public relief agencies. The Bishop's Handbook also says, "Church members should be counseled against seeking public aid unless they are entitled to it and do not have other means of livelihood. Common honesty and loyalty to the Government demands such a course, in fairness to those who are eligible for this assistance." In discussing briefly some of the more important nation-wide public welfare provisions, I shall make specific reference, wherever necessary, to their application in the State of Utah, inasmuch as nearly two-thirds of the Relief Society members in the United States live in Utah. Do not be surprised when I tell you that there are more than a dozen major public welfare provisions for the care of the dependent and for the prevention of dependency. There is some truth in the statement of John Paine that "In the richest land on earth, work begins at 14, unemployment at 16, old age at 35, life at 40, unemployability at 45, and social security at 65." Inception of Federal Aid THE Federal Government first became a source of relief in 1932 when federal funds for relief were first made available to the states as an emergency measure during the depression. These federal grants to states were used for both direct relief and work-relief, and were administered by the Federal Emergency Relief Administration (FERA) during a period of three years. In Utah, the federal grants were augmented by the existing county poor funds, and also by the first State funds for relief. State relief funds are derived from the sales tax, first imposed in 1933. Then, in 1935, the Federal Government adopted measures which separated 

 —NOVEMBER, 1940

 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the two functions of granting direct relief to those unable to work and of operating public works to relieve unemployment. It was recognized that there were among the dependent population large unemployable groups who would continue to be dependent even though employment were available. It was also recognized that a large proportion of the dependent population was employable and needed only the opportunity to earn a livelihood. Farm families on or near relief constituted still another large group in need of consideration. Accordingly, in 1935, Congress enacted measures providing for public work programs, and other measures providing for direct grants of assistance to the needy aged, blind, and children living with widowed mothers. Public Work Programs THE three public work programs designed to provide employment for dependent and near-dependent households are the Works Projects Administration (WPA), the National Youth Administration (NYA), and the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC). The WPA assigns to its projects only those workers who have been certified as being in need of assistance. The NYA provides part-time employment to students in school, and to out-of-school youths. This employment is not restricted to youths from entirely dependent families, but is extended also to those from low-income families. The CCC was initiated in 1933 and was the first of the nation-wide federally operated emergency employment programs. Under this program, unmarried young men are selected from de- 769 pendent and unemployed households for employment in camps established on public property. The CCC boy is provided with maintenance at the camp and is required to assign most of his small monthly wage to his family. All three of these federal work programs provide small cash incomes for the families from which the workers are drawn. These earnings should, of course, be taken into consideration by Relief Society presidents when determining the needs of families in which one or more members are thus employed. With respect to Church members employed on federal work programs, the 1940 edition of the Bishop's Handbook says, "Those who work on federal projects where a regular wage is offered should continue their employment so long as they have no other means of livelihood, but should be sure to give a full day's work for the wages received." Aid for Farm Families THE federal measures designed to help farm families on or near relief to become permanently self-supporting are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the Farm Security Administration (FSA). These measures provide for three distinct but related programs —rural and suburban resettlement, rural rehabilitation, and farm tenancy. The resettlement aspect of the program has two phases—the guidance of individual farmers in finding new and better locations, and the establishment of organized community projects. A typical example in Utah was the purchase by the Government of submarginal lands in 770 Garfield County and the establishment of the former owners in homes on better land in other parts of the state. Through its rural rehabilitation division, the FSA makes loans to impoverished farmers unable to obtain credit from other agencies, for the purchase of livestock, equipment, repairs, and supplies to enable them to become self-supporting. Under the farm tenancy program, the FSA makes loans to tenants, sharecroppers, and farm laborers to enable them to buy family-size farms. In addition to making loans, the FSA also distributes cash subsistence grants to the farm families under its care. These grants are not subject to repayment and represent a form of direct public relief. Relief Society presidents who are responsible for determining the needs of rural families applying for assistance from the Church should be aware of this type of federal aid which is going into many farm families. Social Security Act THE other federal welfare provisions to which I shall refer are all encompassed in the Social Security Act, which was passed by Congress in August, 1935, and amended in some respects in 1939. Six of the titles or sections of this Act provide for grants of funds to the several states for various purposes, but these grants become effective only in those states which comply with their provisions and which participate financially by matching the federal funds with a certain proportion of state funds. The provisions of these titles are administered by the participating states but under the supervision of 

 

 the Federal Government. One other title is administered directly by the Federal Government and requires neither acceptance nor financial participation by the states. Service Provisions TWO of these titles provide for direct and indirect services to individuals and communities. These services relate to crippled children, maternal and child health, child-welfare services, vocational rehabilitation of the physically handicapped, and public health work. Time will not permit a description of these services, but they are all operative in the State of Utah, and you know them in your own communities as the public-health units serving one or more counties; as the county public-health nurse; the clinics for mothers and children; the traveling dental unit; the specialized child-welfare worker who is interested in the children in your community who have serious behavior problems, who are unadjusted to school, who are orphaned, deserted, neglected, or in danger of becoming delinquent. You also see the evidence of these social security services in the crippled children who are sought out in dependent and low-income families and given the corrective treatment which their families cannot afford, and in the physically-handicapped individuals who are trained or re-trained vocationally so that they will be able to earn a livelihood despite their handicaps. All these services are resources at your disposal to which you can turn for help in meeting and solving some of the health problems, some of the behavior and other problems which confront every Re- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE lief Society president in her family welfare work. Social Insurance FIVE titles of the Social Security Act provide for direct money payments to individuals. Two of these titles relate to social insurance benefits and three titles provide for direct grants of public assistance to the needy aged, blind, and dependent children. The two social insurance provisions are unemployment compensation and old-age and survivors insurance. The benefits paid under both of these provisions are derived from employment taxes, and go chiefly to low or average wage workers who, ordinarily, are unable to lay away savings for periods of unemployment or for their old age. The Bishop's Handbook for 1940 says, with respect to Church members, "Workers who are entitled to unemployment compensation and individuals covered by old-age insurance should be counseled to accept these benefits." Relief Society presidents should be aware of these two sources of cash income when considering applications for assistance from those who are eligible for these benefits. However, there are large groups of workers in the United States who are not covered by either of these forms of social insurance. The uninsured workers are domestic servants in private homes, agricultural labor, and employees of nonprofit institutions such as federal, state, and local units of government, churches, and charitable organizations. The one form of social insurance —unemployment compensation—is a system under which a man or woman who loses employment will, 771 while unemployed or partially unemployed, be paid unemployment benefits in proportion to previous wages for a limited period of time. In order to accumulate a fund from which these benefits are paid, contributions are required by law of all employers of four or more workers, except in the exempted types of employment already mentioned. The workers themselves do not pay anything into this fund. The purpose of this compensation is to tide workers over between jobs, so that they will have some measure of security during periods of unemployment. Relief Society women will be interested in the fact that unemployed women receive about one-third of the total amount paid as unemployment compensation. The other social insurance title of the Social Security Act provides for old-age benefits and survivors insurance. This is the one provision of the Social Security Act which is administered directly by the Federal Government throughout the United States, and which does not depend upon some measure of financial participation by the states. This is a form of insurance payable, irrespective of need, to retired workers after they become 65 years of age, or to their survivors. The benefits are payable monthly to the beneficiaries for the rest of their lives. The trust fund from which these insurance benefits are paid is derived from a tax on the wages of workers, and this tax is payable by both the worker and his employer. The amount of these benefits is based on the number of years during which each individual's wages were taxed and the amount of such wages. About 28 million workers in the 772 United States come under the provisions of this Act, and it is for this purpose that workers throughout the nation are registered and assigned identifying Social Security numbers. Again, you will be interested to know that about one-third of the workers covered by this form of insurance are women. More than three million dollars per month is now being paid throughout the United States to 150,000 retired workers or their aged wives, widows, orphans or dependent parents. The purpose of this type of insurance is to give some measure of security to those individuals and their families who are no longer employable because of old age, and to give it as a matter of right from the trust fund to which they contributed during their earning years. Public-Assistance Grants BENEFITS under this plan could not, of course, begin immediately upon passage of the Social Security Act in 1935, but only after a period of time during which credits could accrue to the workers. Therefore, in order to assist those needy individuals already 65 years of age or older, and those not covered by this federal plan of old-age insurance, the Social Security Act also provided for the payment of old-age assistance — a form of direct relief for those 65 years of age and older who are in need. This is one of the three public-assistance titles of the Social Security Act, the other two being for dependent children and for the needy blind. In providing for these three dependent, industrially unemployable groups, it was the purpose of the Social Security Act to extend to them some measure of security 

 

 rather than the emergency relief of the three previous years, or the uncertain and inadequate county pensions which, during the preceding twenty-five years, had been paid only by some counties in some states. Hence, even the term "relief" is avoided with reference to these three groups, and the term "assistance" used instead. THE general provisions of each of these three public-assistance titles of the Social Security Act are very similar. They all specify need as the basis for individual grants, and stipulate that the assistance given must be in the form of cash grants, and that it must be paid direct to eligible individuals in their own homes. Consequently, these public-assistance grants cannot be paid to individuals who are receiving care in institutions—a reversal of the policy in effect for nearly two hundred years under the early poor-relief laws when almshouse care was considered to be the best method of providing for the poor. In each of these three types of aid, the Federal Government pays one-half of the individual cash grants up to a specified maximum, and the state and counties pay the other half. In Utah, the state law stipulates that counties contribute 15 per cent of these grants, and the state sales tax therefore meets 35 per cent. In order for any state to qualify for these federal public-assistance grants, the state's plans for these types of aid must be in effect in all counties of the state and mandatory upon them; the state must be authorized to participate with funds appropriated or made available out of the state treasury; and the grants must be issued RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE throughout the state under the supervision of a single state agency. In Utah, this single state agency is the Department of Public Welfare, which operates through a Department of Public Welfare in each county. These requirements insure the extension of these types of public assistance to all counties of the state and tend toward uniformity of administration in all counties. Most states, including Utah, impose the maximum residence restrictions permitted by the Social Security Act with respect to individuals applying for these types of aid. In order to qualify for old-age assistance, an individual must have reached his 65th birthday, and must be in need. Aid to dependent children is granted with respect to children under 16 years of age, and with respect to children between 16 and 18 years of age who are in school, provided all such children are deprived of parental support or care by reason of the death, continued absence from the home, or disability of either parent, and provided they are living with their mother, or with other relatives coming within the twelve degrees of relationship specified in the Social Security Act. Aid to the blind is granted to adults in Utah who are in need and who have a specified degree of blindness as determined by ophthalmic measurement. Under authorization of the 1939 Utah State legislature, the Department of Public Welfare also provides "medical and surgical eye care and other sight conservation work." Old-age assistance plans are in effect in every state and county in the United States, and there are nearly 2 million recipients of old-age grants. Aid to the needy blind is extended to about 48,000 individuals living in 43 states, and grants are made in 42 states for more than 800,000 children living with widowed mothers or other relatives. General Relief IN every state there is a group of dependents not coming under provisions of either the federal Works Program or the public-assistance titles of the Social Security Act, or who are covered by these provisions but do not receive care thereunder because of limited public funds. This group is composed largely of physically handicapped or otherwise unemployable individuals, and also of employable individuals who for various reasons cannot be employed on WPA projects. The public aid extended to these individuals is termed "general assistance," in contra-distinction to the special types of aid for classified groups. Although formerly issued principally in the form of commodities, almost all general relief in Utah is now issued in the form of cash. There have been no federal funds for this type of aid since withdrawal of the emergency relief (FERA) funds at the end of 1935. Therefore, general public relief in Utah is provided from 15 per cent county funds and 85 per cent state sales tax funds. Surplus Commodities ALL recipients of public assistance also receive regularly, in addition to their cash allowances, surplus commodities in the form of food, clothing, and household articles such as towels and bedding. These commodities are made available through the Federal Surplus Commodities Corporation which buys surplus 773 774 foods and textiles, and distributes them without charge to certified recipients of public relief as a means of removing surpluses from the market and stabilizing farm prices. These surplus commodities are issued as an addition to the family's relief allowance, not as a part of it. Need Determined ALL three of the special types of public assistance, as well as general relief, are issued on the basis of need; in Utah need is determined in each instance through an investigation by a case worker in the County Department of Public Welfare. For old-age assistance, the Utah law specifies need as an income of less than $30 per month; for all other types of aid, need is determined by means of a standard budget which serves as a uniform measure of the minimum requirements of individual families. From this individualized family budget is subtracted the resources and income of the household, and the deficiency thus established represents the amount of public assistance required. In subtracting the resources and income of the household, the public agency must take into account the income from all sources, including relief provided by any other agency, such as the bishop or ward Relief Society president. In other words, the public assistance funds are used to supply that portion of the needs of the individual or family which cannot be provided from private tesources. This means, then, that if the Church puts relief into the same family which also receives assistance from the county, and for the same purposes as those specified in  

 public-relief budget, the county is obligated to consider such Church telief as income for the family, and to deduct it from the amount of public relief which would otherwise be given. Wherever the ward supplements public assistance in this way, the Church is actually shouldering a part of the legal responsibility of the public agency. Although such supplementary aid by the Church may decrease the amount of money expended for public relief, it does not decrease the number of individuals actually receiving some measure of public aid. The case counts of the public agency necessarily include those who ate partially dependent as well as those who are entirely dependent upon it. Consequently, the effect of Church aid on the public relief rolls would be more evident if that proportion: of Church telief which now goes toward supplementation of public relief in a great many families were used, instead, to lift even a few of those families from public relief entirely. Church Welfare Program DESPITE the varied and extensive public welfare provisions which I have described briefly, there is vital need of the Church welfare program. Not only does it foster industry, thrift, self-reliance, cooperation, and mutual helpfulness among all members of the Church, but it can serve the dependent 'and underprivileged in at least four general classifications: First, it extends aid to its faithful members who are in need but unable to work. Second, it provides employment for those able to work in exchange for their needs, including particularly those who are unemployable in private industry or on RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE federal work projects, but who can be occupied, according to their abilities, under the Church welfare plan. (By this means, many are sustaining themselves without appealing for public aid.) Third, the Church can render valuable service to those who are receiving public assistance by mecting some of the many needs for which there are no available public funds, provided such supplementary aid is given, as the Bishop's Handbook directs, "only with the knowledge 775 and cooperation of the public agency, and with a thorough understanding of the family's needs and requirements." And finally, there is a wide field for constructive Church assistance in the low-income families who because of small incomes are ineligible for public relief, but who nevertheless are scantily clad, unable to meet medical bills, unable to pay school tuition, and unable to provide for many other aspects of normal life.