Social Service EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE Family Relationships Lesson 4 Family Life on Twenty-four Hours a Day (Tuesday, February 25, 1941) YES, there is some equality in the capital stock with which every human being begins life in this world. Twenty-four hours per day is the allotment of everyone, and not a single minute can be added or subtracted therefrom. The number of days which makes up the life of each one varies widely, but the difference in the degree of success attained by one as compared with another is determined by the quality of life rather 792 than the quantity. Raise the quality of the life of an individual just a little each day and the sum total of achievement is multiplied many fold. The difference in quality depends more upon the manner in which one uses his margin of time than upon the amount of time used in the routine of living. The use of a certain amount of time in the routine of living is determined for everyone by definite life needs. Comparatively little freedom is afforded one in the choice of activities involved in these routine phases of living. The budget based on the twenty-four hour unit conforms to about the following schedule: 8 hours sleep, 8 hours for vocational pursuits, 1? hours for eating?15 minutes for breakfast, 30 minutes for lunch, and 45 minutes for dinner (this is far more time than many people use for eating, but not more than they should use if they eat healthfully), 30 minutes for personal grooming, and one hour for miscellaneous needs?a total of 19 hours. Therefore, only five hours remain for one to use according to his choice. In so short a period, what can one accomplish that is worthwhile? Now, let us see according to this schedule how many so-called free hours one may have in a year: 5 hours per day for seven days, plus 8 hours released from vocational duties on Sunday, add up to 43 hours; 43 hours per week for 52 weeks add up to 2,236 hours per year, or 93 1/6 days or an average of 3 months. We do have time; but what do we do with it? One consoling speculation is the difference between time and money in regard to the saving aspect of each. In order to save money, we must put 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1940

 it away somewhere and keep it; but in order to save time, we must spend it. Merely to "pass the time away" is a wicked use of time. It invites worry, self-pity, imaginary illnesses, general discontent, and many other harmful and vicious forms of mental indulgence. Abraham Cowley said, "There is no saying shocks me so much as that which I hear very often, 'that a man does not know how to pass his time.' It would have been but ill-spoken by Methuselah in the nine hundred and sixty-ninth year of his life." TO be a member of a successful family group is one of the most powerful safeguards against the misuse of time, because the time, energy, and ingenuity of every member of such a group is called upon to plan for successful family living on twenty-four hours a day. Training for family living on twenty-four hours a day should begin when the child is born. Those who have had this training and who habitually make use of it according to their ability, are in the best position to train the future generation. Fortunate, indeed, is the child who has been chosen to take up his abode as the offspring of parents who have learned the wise use of time. Let us turn our attention to some of the requisites for qualitative family living made possible when our daily plan of life is based on twenty-four hours, no more, no less. Should not our attitude toward the proper evaluation of time come first? Theophrastus, the Greek philosopher, declared that time was the most valuable thing that a man could spend. If this is true, then time is more valuable than money; LESSON DEPARTMENT and it must be true, since without time there would be no wealth of any sort. It was Plutarch who counseled, "Be ruled by time, the wisest counselor of all." A healthy attitude is: time is for you?you are not for time; for after all, the person is the ultimate unit of value. One may fritter time away just as one may fritter money away; and all too often, after one has wasted one hour, he continues to waste a good part of the next in regretting what he failed to do during the previous hour. Such a one may be encouraged by the thought that the next hour is waiting for him even though he may have squandered the last one. The earlier in life that a well-organized system of consistent habits is established for carrying on the numerous routine duties of daily life, the more time will be reserved for other interests. No parent should consider that time wasted which is spent in guiding and assisting his children in the formation of desirable habits. The lack of patience today robs one of time tomorrow. The lack of sufficient attention to details results in great waste of time. Probably, we should qualify that statement and say important details. The ability to differentiate between important and unimportant details in family life is one of the earmarks of a trained person. To make sure that one finds a needle that has been dropped on the rug is an important detail; to see that one finds a piece of thread that has been dropped on the rug is an unimportant detail. To decide whether a detail is important or unimportant, ask the question: "What will be the result?" 793 IN order to have time for living, one must know how much time is required for the regular routine duties in the home or in the office. It might be wise for the inexperienced homemaker to keep a daily record of the amount of time consumed in such tasks as preparing each meal, clearing away after the meal, telephoning, reading the newspaper, going to market, etc. If guests are invited for dinner, take time after the menu has been decided upon to estimate the amount of time needed for preparing each item, arranging the table, and so forth. Could we but know the quantity of time that is wasted every day because of that vast army of people who are always late for their appointments because they have no conception of the time element! Strange as it seems, we are prone to feel more free to exploit the time of those who are nearest and dearest to us than those who are strangers to us. Those who are nearest to us will understand, we say, and so we impose upon that understanding to the point of precipitating domestic discord. The husband who knows at four o'clock in the afternoon that it will be impossible for him to arrive home at the expected hour would save much time if only he would spend a few minutes on the telephone to inform his wife of the situation. To merely pass the time away idly waiting for someone or something expected is a common source of time leakage. The mother of four small children said recently that she could not afford to take time to plan when or how she was going to get things done, she simply had to get in and do them. That very afternoon she hurried home from an unplanned trip to town only to find that she had forgotten to purchase an article essential to the evening meal, so she immediately used up ten minutes getting her husband on the telephone to ask him to do the errand. This meant ten or fifteen minutes of his time wasted also. If every wife would spend enough time before she goes shopping to carefully plan what she is going for, how much money she can spend for each purchase, where she will be most likely to find what she wants, to make a note of size or measurements concerned, and allow for unexpected purchases, she will save money as well as time. She will not take the attitude that many a woman takes when she goes shopping?that she hopes she needs what she finds. Rather, she will take the attitude that she hopes she can find exactly what she needs. Now, the larger the family the greater is the need for both father and mother to spend more time organizing and planning family activities. This does not mean that daily living should be carried out always according to plans; plans made by people are for people and must be modified as the need arises to promote the welfare of people. Another aid to smooth-running family life is to spend a bit of time today in preparation for tomorrow. A half hour spent in the evening in anticipation of tomorrow morning's duties may serve as the oil to make the machinery of another day run without friction. If the machinery of family life starts off smoothly in the morning, the chances are much greater that it will continue so throughout the entire day. It seems queer that for ever so many years many families have selected Monday as the weekly laundry day. If any day is made easier as a result of preparation the night before it is "wash day." If Monday is the day selected, then Sunday evening must be spent in preparation for the activity; and there are so many possibilities for spending Sunday evening in a way that adds to the joy of family-group living. Why not experiment with some day other than Monday for laundry work and see if household duties would run more smoothly? A PERFECT recipe for the use of time is impossible to formulate. The degree of living must depend on the capacity of each individual to live. Therefore, each individual must face the reality of his own situation and decide on a happy medium as far as speed is concerned. He should not move so fast that he exploits his health and energy, nor so slow that he wastes his time. Allow time for the most important things first. The person who attempts to do more each day than his time and energy will permit is usually rushing about from early morning until night, wasting much time because of a lack of well-worked-out plans and preparation. On the other hand, the person who spends part of his time in organizing the use of his time, who knows his own capacity and his own life well enough to know how much he should accomplish each twenty-four hours, and who functions consistently, is usually the one who exemplifies from 

 ?NOVEMBER, 1940

 LESSON DEPARTMENT hour to hour and from day to day the wise expenditure of time. Lin Yutang says in The Importance of Living, "Besides the noble art of getting things done there is the noble art of leaving things undone. The wisdom of life consists in the elimination of non-essentials, and of finding contentment in those things closest to us?the enjoyment of the home, of everyday living, and of nature." The smaller the margin of time a person has in which he may exercise freedom of choice, the more precious and sacred that time is, and the greater is his responsibility to guide the spending of that time. Every person who admits that he has no time for the family is relegating the family to the group of unimportant things of life. In the truly democratic family a generous share of the time of each member is actually spent for the welfare of the group. In a family of six, if each member would spend just one of his marginal hours each day for the enrichment of his family-group life, there would be six hours every day spent in promoting the interests of that particular family. If every Latter-day Saint would adopt such a practice, the quality of family life would be so greatly enhanced that our family life would stand out as an example for all the world to follow. 795 Questions and Problems 1. Make a list of ten habits that children should form which would facilitate the wise spending of time. 2. Keep an accurate record for one week of the time wasted in your family as a result of one member keeping other members waiting. In each case, how might it have been avoided? 3. Consider a family group of five members, consisting of a father, mother, a daughter age 8, one son age 12, and one son age 16, and suggest specific contributions each may make to family living by spending one hour per day for enhancing the joy of family living. 4. Give examples taken from your own observation of families in which the father or mother, or both, spend an undue amount of time in activities outside of the home: State specifically how different members of the family are affected. Do not reveal names of families. References The Use of the Margin, Edward Howard Griggs. How to Live on Twenty-four Hours a Day, Arnold Bennett, Section One, "How to Live." Living With Our Children, Lillian M. Gilbreth, Chap. 5. Readers Digest, March, 1940, "The Fun of Being Normal," Edith M. Stern. Readers Digest, June, 1936, "An American Home," Della T. Lutes. American Home, March, 1940, "Mother, Why Don't We Have Fun Any More," Adeline Bullock. Parents Magazine, March, 1937, "Stepping Out as a Family," Helen E. Hanford. THE TRUEST GREATNESS "After all, to do well those things which God ordained to be the common lot of all mankind, is the truest greatness. To be a successful father or a successful mother is greater than to be a successful general or a successful statesman."?Gospel Doctrine, President Joseph F. Smith.