HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon NOVEMBER—Happiness comes by giving happiness. HISTORIC buildings sometimes seem to have a personality; then they become shrines in the hearts of people. Greece had her Parthenon, Rome her Coliseum, India her Tajmahal, while here "where the West begins" there once stood a classic fane, dramatically called "A Cathedral in the Desert"—The Salt Lake Theatre. The theatre was a model in architecture; a symbol of the culture and inspirational ideals of a great people, who with sublime faith passed through the furnace of sacrifice and found refuge in an arid desert. In memory of this beloved temple of art and in order that future generations may have a reminder of its traditions and history, a bronze plaque, on its frieze a mythological story in bas-relief, with a few words below telling that here was the site of the old playhouse, has been placed in a niche of a modern structure. The plaque was unveiled October 4, 1940, with impressive ceremonies. JOANNA SPRAGUE, 42. Years librarian of Salt Lake City public library, was signally honored last month when she received a Distinguished Service Award from the State Library Association. NAZIMOYA, one of the great stars of the stage, after an absence of 15 years, is soon to appear as the herome in the picturization of Ethel Vance's dramatic story, "Escape." NINA FEDEROVA has been awarded the $10,000 "Atlantic" prize for her novel, "The Family," an odd story in a Tientsin setting. MRS. GRAFTON BURKE, connected with the Episcopal mission in Alaska, after an absence of 30 years has returned to the United States to live. She helped found a hospital at Ft. Yukon for tubercular sufferers, and she had personal charge of the children's convalescent ward. HARLOTTE, Grand Duchess of Luxemburg, has joined her Prince Consort and children in the United States—though refugees, happy to escape war-torn Europe. M48Y MOYLE BOOTH of Al- " " pine, Utah, who died recently, spent most of her life laboring with her husband in the Palestine-Syrian mission teaching Gospel truths in a darkened land where once the Savior walked and taught. HANNAH M. ALDRICH, handcart pioneer of 1856, was 100 years old last month. On the occasion of her birthday, she related many marvelous experiences of her long and useful life. ELLEN ALLEN BRIGHTON, 8s, ~ Gold Star mother, and Mary Ann L. Burt, 91, are two estimable and devoted Relief Society women who died this late summer. VIELLA BUTLER, of Utah, has written a novel titled "Re-Creation," which will soon be off the press.  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 Editor - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman