——___ General Session (Thursday, October 3, 1940) OUR GREATEST NEED Marianne C. Sharp Relief Society General Board Member IN order that any Latter-day Saint home may be a foundation for righteous living, that home must have as one of its foundation stones a belief and practice in prayer. Our greatest need is to keep open at all times the path of communication between Heaven and us. We must pray with a broken heart and a contrite spirit. Sometimes when we kneel to pray, we know that our thoughts wander and our spirits are not one with the spirit of prayer; but before we begin to pray, we must work with ourselves and humble ourselves, so that our prayers will be the outpouring of the desires of our hearts—then we know our prayers are heard, and peace comes to our souls. Such a prayer will not be a set, formal one, neither will it multiply words. Just before the Savior gave us the manner in which we should pray, "The Lord's Prayer," he warned against vain repetitions such as the heathens use, "For your Father," he said, "knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him." (Matt. 6:8.) Christ also told us to "watch and pray always," and he gave a parable to his disciples "to this end that men ought always to pray, and not to faint." (Luke 18:1) Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants says, "Pray always that ye may not faint until I come," and Section 33 reads: "Wherefore, be faithful, praying always, having your lamps trimmed -and burning, and oil with you, that you may be ready at the coming of the Bridegroom—For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that I come quickly. Even so, Amen." (33:17) Through prayer we come to know the things of God; and through prayer we may also be given the strength to liveaccording to the things of God we have come to know. If the Prophet Joseph Smith had not had a childhood training in prayer, surely it would not have occurred to him to go out into the woods and there offer up his first vocal prayer when he read James' declaration, "If any of you lack wisdom, let him askof God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." (James 1:15) The boy prophet prayed for wisdom; and as a result of this prayer, the heavens were opened, and he ushered in this Last Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. We are met here today as members of the Relief Society, but the members of the Relief Society are also the mothers in Zion. As such, we are not doing our full duty by our children to train them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, unless by example and precept we teach them to pray in public and private. Under the direction of the Priesthood in our homes we must gather our children around us night and morning for family prayers. We must teach our children to thank the Lord for his past blessings and pray that they may be worthy to have them continued in the future. Let us teach our children while young to sustain the authorities of our Church by praying each day that they may be guided and upheld by the Lord, and let us at all times and in all conditions acknowledge the hand of the Lord in our affairs. "One peculiarity of our faith and religion," as Brigham Young states, "is never to ask the Lord to do anything without being willing to help Him all that we are able, and then the Lord will do the rest." I think we should remember this when we ask the Lord to heal the sick in our households. I knew a mother who had a child born with an affliction. The doctor told her it was incurable, but urged her to take the baby toa specialist. This the mother was very unwilling to do, because she felt if she kept her child home she could heal it by faith; but after a short time, the mother remembered this belief of the Latter-day Saints and also that all knowledge has been given of God to his children for their well-being, and so she took her child to the specialist. He promised no cure, but said the condition might improve as the years passed, and he showed her what measutes to take for the baby. This did not at all daunt the mother, for she felt her faith would now be more justified. Each day she carried out the doctor's instructions, and she also implored the Lord with faith to heal her baby. In a few months her child was healed of its affliction, and the first doctor, when he again saw the child, called' it a miracle. Never has there been a time when we needed prayer more than now, and nothing will bind a family closer together than family prayers. Ill feelings vanish during a heartfelt prayer, and hatred, envy, and malice disappear before a fervent prayer. Through our prayers, we are reminded of the brotherhood of man and of that larger family of our Heavenly Father to which we belong. Love, that great commandment, increases through prayer. Nowhere do we find more beautiful passages on prayer than in the Book of Mormon. We are shown how great and marvelous prayer may be in the 

 —NOVEMBER, 1940

 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE account of Christ's visit to the Nephites recorded in 3rd Nephi. After healing their afflicted, He instructed the Nephites to place their children around Him and then commanded the multitude to kneel. "And it came to pass that when they had knelt upon the ground, Jesus groaned within himself, and said: Father, Iam troubled because of the wickedness of the people of the house of Israel. And when he had said these words, he himself also knelt upon the earth; and behold. He prayed unto the Fathet, and the things which he prayed cannot be written, and the multitude did bear record who heard him. And after this manner do they bear record: The eye hath never seen, neither hath the ear heard, before, so great and marvelous things as we saw and heard Jesus speak unto the Father. And no tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any man, neither can 117 the hearts of men conceive so great and marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we heard him pray for us unto the Father." And the multitude was overcome; but when Jesus bade them arise, and they arose, he said to them, "Blessed are ye because of your faith. And now behold, my joy is full." If we are true and faithful to the principles of the Gospel, we may sometime have the privilege, as the Nephites of old, of being in the presence of our Savior. Our joy will not be full, however, unless our children are there with us. So may we teach them to love the Gospel. May we do all we can do, all we should do, to teach them to pray, that each one may know for himself that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God.