(Page 603) LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony THE RESTORED GOSPEL DISPENSATION Lesson 5 Faith?A Power in the Life of Wilford Woodruff, the Great Evangelist (Tuesday, February 4, 1941) "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!" (John 1:47) WHEN Wilford Woodruff died in California on September 2, 1898, he had been a member of the Church for sixty-five years, an apostle for sixty years, and had presided over the destiny of the Church for eleven trying years. A study of the life of Wilford Woodruff reveals the extent to which the spirit of God guided, inspired, and protected the early leaders as they sought to establish the Kingdom of God among mortals. HIS CONVERSION. He first heard of the restoration of the Gospel at a meeting conducted by two Mormon missionaries in a schoolhouse near his farm in New York State. On the way to the meeting, he offered a silent prayer, asking that the Lord would make it known to him in some fashion if these men were really His servants or preachers of man-made doctrines. He listened attentively and critically to the message of the elders. At the conclusion of the preaching, an opportunity was given to ask questions or make comments concerning the discourses. Wilford arose and bore testimony to the assembled congregation that the statements of the missionaries were true, and that they were true servants of God. He urged his neighbors and friends to give the men a fair hearing, as the Lord had revealed to him that they were teaching the Gospel. Shortly afterward, on December 31, 1833, he was baptized. This testimony of the divinity of the latter-day work was not the product of an impetuous mind. It was based upon an intense faith in a living God who was able and willing to manifest His will to mortals, the power of fervent prayer, the spirit of discernment, and a keen sensitiveness to the inspiration of God. These characteristics, coupled with that of prophetic vision, moral and physical courage, a sense of historical accuracy, unfeigned humility, kindness, and tolerance were to be outstanding in his life during the ensuing years. MISSIONARY LABORS. In 1834, Wilford Woodruff had a strong desire to go as a missionary to preach the Gospel. Being of a retiring disposition, he did not make 782 this wish known to anyone in the Church, but went into a forest and secretly prayed God to open the way for him to realize this desire. Emerging from his place of solitary communion, he met Elias Higbee, a high priest, who said to him, "Brother Woodruff, the spirit of the Lord tells me that you should be ordained to go and preach the Gospel." Within a few days, he commenced a mission to the Southern States. This was but one of a number of missions he performed, all of which were attended by phenomenal success. During thirteen days, while laboring on the North and South Fox Islands off the coast of New England, he converted and baptized every member of two congregations except the ministers, and acquired, thereby, for the Church, the two chapels which the congregations owned. During his first mission to England, he baptized 1,800 souls in Herefordshire in eight months, thereby acquiring one chapel and forty-five licensed houses for preaching. Altogether, he traveled more than 175,000 miles and baptized approximately 2,000 souls during his public ministry. Historians rate him as one of the most successful missionaries of the last dispensation. A PIONEER. In Missouri, Illinois, and the Great Basin, he was actively engaged in pioneering. During the Utah period, he was active in educational, industrial, legislative, and agricultural work for the welfare of the people. Fundamentally, however, he loved the soil; and until near the end of his life he cultivated and managed a model farm, in the true sense of the word. He loved physical toil and said that to sweat was as much a divine command as to 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1940

 pray. He drew no distinctions between the temporal, physical, spiritual, and social phases of life. To him, religion and spirituality were inseparably connected with every phase of life. Physical toil he viewed as a boon to mankind and honest labor an essential for the development of character. HISTORIAN OF THE CHURCH. During sixty-two years of his life in the Church, President Woodruff wrote more than 7,000 pages of daily journals. These writings are more than mere diaries? they are primarily concerned with important events bearing upon the progress of the Restored Church. During his entire life, but especially prior to joining the Church, he was threatened with dangers that brought him near to death. He wrote of these experiences, "My life abounds in incidents which to me surely indicate the direct interposition of God, whom I firmly believe has guided my every step. On 27 distinct occasions I have been saved from dangers which threatened my life." Then he explained why he thought the powers of the adversary had been so set against his destruction and also the reason that he kept such accurate written accounts of contemporary events in these words: "I seem to be a marked victim of the adversary. I can find but one reason for this: the devil knew if I got into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I would write a history of that Church and leave on record the works and teachings of the prophets, the apostles and elders. I have recorded nearly all the sermons and teachings that I ever heard from the Prophet Joseph.... Another reason I was moved LESSON DEPARTMENT upon to write in the early days was that nearly all the historians appointed in those times apostatized and took the journals (of Church History) away with them." In these words is an evidence of his profound testimony of the divinity of the latter-day Restoration. He knew that the Church was based upon the fundamentals of the Gospel of Christ restored through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith, and was kept functioning through continuous revelation and the leadership of the Priesthood. He sensed that contemporary recordings of events would vindicate historically for others what he knew to be true, and he labored untiringly to pass on to posterity this rich literary heritage. Truly has B. H. Roberts written: "The Church is indebted to these Journals for a reliable record of discourses and sayings of Joseph Smith?which but for him would have been lost forever." FAITH: A PRINCIPLE OF POWER AND ACTION IN HIS LIFE. President Woodruff's favorite hymn was "God Moves in a Mysterious Way." This composition had an especial appeal to him, as his life abounded in manifestations of God's guidance to him personally as well as to the Church and the Saints. His unwavering faith kept him attuned to the promptings of the Spirit to a remarkable degree. The well-known incident of his family's escape from death by a falling tree, in Indiana, in 1848, through moving his wagon from its resting place, is an evidence of this type of manifestation. He had great faith in prayer and did not hesitate to ask God to do the seemingly impossible. He records that on February 8, 1886, 783 he and Erastus Snow had gone to the Historian's office early in the morning for a secret meeting. Suddenly the building was surrounded by deputy marshals searching for the polygamous Church authorities. He observed them search the Gardo house to the east, and the President's office across the street to the north. Then he offered a silent prayer, asking the Lord to blind his enemies. Taking his hat, he left the building, walked past about twenty officers who were looking for him and crossed the street, where he got into a carriage and drove safely away. He was a man of vision and his journals record numerous dreams that were in the nature of visions. Many years before its completion, he dreamed that he would dedicate the Salt Lake Temple, although at the time his health was such that his life was despaired of and the Temple was far from completed. In 1893, at the age of 86, he was privileged to perform this rite. The incident of miraculous healings performed through the faith manifested in the silk handkerchief which the Prophet Joseph gave him as a token of authority, and the inspiration that led him to the United Brethren congregations in Herefordshire are further well-known incidents of this character. His great faith likewise manifested itself in his unwavering physical, mental, and moral courage. His journals record several incidents in which he knowingly walked into the arms of apparent death during his mission to the Southern States, 1834-1836. Throughout the more than four score and ten years that Wilford 784 Woodruff lived, his faith in God manifested itself in the complete consecration of his time and talents to the upbuilding of the Kingdom. This devotion to his ideal won for him a place as one of the greatest pioneers of the Intermountain West and of the world in modern times, as well as a place of leadership in the Church. Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. List the characteristics of Wilford Woodruff's personality that give evidence of his great faith. 2. How do you account for the fact that he was so sensitive to the promptings of the Spirit? 3. How can you explain the fact that Wilford Woodruff bore testimony to the divinity of the message of "Mormonism" at the first meeting he attended? Topics for Study and Special Reports 1. Have someone give short reports on 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1940

 the following faith-promoting incidents from the life of Wilford Woodruff: a. His experiences with Mr. Akeman. (Printed in Leaves From My Journal) b. His escape from death beneath a falling tree. 2. Review the section in Vol. VI, pp. 354-355 of Roberts' Comprehensive History of the Church entitled "The Place of President Woodruff's Journals in the Church." 3. On November 5, 1896, President Woodruff changed the Fast Day from the first Thursday to the first Sunday of the month. Why was this change made? References John Henry Evans, The Heart of Mormonism, pp. 127-131; 227-230. B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 200-241; 346- 355. Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 603-614. Wilford Woodruff, Leaves from My Journal.