Officers Meeting (Wednesday, October 2, 1940) GREETINGS President Amy Brown Lyman IT is with real pleasure that the General Board welcomes you here today—you dear sisters, officers, and class leaders who are largely responsible for the success of the Relief Society work throughout the Church. It gives us joy to see you again after six months, to mingle with you, and to feel the warmth of your spirits. We hope that your attendance at the conference will be profitable to you, and that you will feel compensated for the effort you have put forth to come. We want you to know that we appreciate you, that we pray constantly for you and for the work. In our prayer meeting held just prior to 

 —NOVEMBER, 1940

 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE this meeting, we prayed that that which would be received at this conference might be beneficial to all of us in furthering our ever-higher standard of work throughout the stakes, and we prayed also for your homes and their safety during your absence. I am sure our hearts are heavy today, as they have been for many months, when we realize what many of our dear sisters and their loved ones, and other innocent victims, are suffering in those unfortunate countries which are involved in war. In Europe, we have 5,000 Relief Society members who are in the thick of the disaster. In South Africa, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, combined, are nearly 3,000 Relief Society members who, in this dark hour, are living in constant suspense, dread, and fear for what the next day or even the next hour may bring. Let us keep them all in mind. Let us pray daily for them and for their loved ones—their husbands, fathers, and sons, and for their little children who are innocent victims of this terrible world conflict. Through letters to us and through reports to Elder Thomas E. McKay, president of the European Mission, now residing in Salt Lake City, we learn of the courage and bravery of our members in spite of trying conditions. The Relief Society work is being carried on in all of the European missions. Meetings are held in which regular work is taken up and in which members console and comfort one another; all of which is very helpful to their morale. They are also carrying forward welfare work, doing what they can to help those in need and distress. In addition to this, Relief 733 Society women are helping to conduct regular Church work in the absence of members of the Priesthood who are in government service. AS we are all aware, our October conference is devoted largely to our educational program. The General Board aims to prepare a course of study that is both profitable and interesting. We are very proud of the record you have made and are making in presenting the lessons. We have attained a high degree of efficiency in our teaching, which is most gratifying. I believe that our teaching and learning are changing and improving our daily lives, which is the great goal of education. I believe that after each yearly course of study we are different, that we have received development. I am sure our class leaders have gained results of which they are not aware: that they have helped to establish in class members higher ideals; that they have inspired new and broader interests; that they have helped to improve attitudes and even habits. In other words, they are teaching us how to live better lives, which is a great achievement for our educational program. There is surely no higher, nobler, more far-reaching calling than that of the teacher. There are two suggestions I would like to make to you with respect to class work: First, that it be permeated with the true spirit and philosophy of the Gospel. I believe that in all of our classes, no matter what the subject, there is opportunity to inculcate faith, reverence, testimony. Brother Karl G. Maeser used to tell us that when he was sent to Provo to open up the first Church school, 734 the Brigham Young Academy, President Young instructed him that the spirit of the Lord should accompany every recitation. "Do not attempt to teach even the multiplication table without the spirit of the Lord," he directed. The whole object of the Church school system is to make intelligent, faithful, true Latter-day Saints, and that is our object also. Many people in the world today are realizing, as never before, that prayer, faith in God, spirituality, morality, and all the old virtues as taught in the Bible, such as the Ten Commandments and the teachings of the Savior, are worth more than all the modern philosophies of men; and we, as Latter-day Saints, have in addition to all of these our own Gospel teachings, including the Articles of Faith. Second, I would suggest that in our teaching we include and keep before our classes constantly the ideals of American democracy and human liberty—the ideals set forth in the THE SPIRIT 

 

 Mayflower Compact, the Declaration of Independence, and the Constitution of the United States—all of which are based on Christian principles. Christianity is really the first line of defense for true democracy. Our country needs our help. Proper teaching methods in Relief Society should help our members to be Latter-day Saints who are willing to live their religion, and citizens who are willing to work for the preservation of the ideals and principles which underlie our national security. Class leaders are challenged as are all other leaders. The teacher who believes what she teaches and who shows in her daily life that the things she teaches have affected her own behavior for the better, will be more successful than the one who does not. A living personality and a fine character known to all, are more effective in teaching than preparation and training, effective as these latter are. Ideals taught should be first realized in the teacher.