Cannon April 10, 1940 SELF-REALIZATION THROUGH CREATIVE WORK Counselor Marcia K. Howells WOMEN have a natural love of beauty and a persistent desire to create. As they have leisure time lying heavily on their hands, the history of creative effort is interesting. Leonardo Da Vinci, the great Italian artist, painted the "Last Supper" and also the "Mona Lisa." He had one of the keenest minds the world has ever known. The creative urge is in all of us. Power to create varies only in degree. The artist cannot paint a "Last Supper," but we can make something that is useful and beautiful. Our pioneer women did handwork as they came across the plains, knitting, tatting, and even piecing quilts as they jogged along. We, to-  762 day, have a priceless heritage as a result of that activity. Seventy years ago, the Twentieth Ward Relief Society in Salt Lake City made the unique "Friendship Quilt." It is an applique quilt made up of fifty-six blocks, each about twelve inches square. Each block 

 

 of Eliza R. Snow, with the quotation, "And there shall be nothing to hurt or to destroy in all my holy mountain saith the Lord"; the lamb and the lion are shown peacefully together. On still another block may be seen the words, "The Constitution of Deseret," also, "20th Ward," and "F. R. S." (Female Relief Society). Artists have come to the Utah State Capitol, where this "Friendship Quilt" is on display, to copy designs from it to exhibit in museums and libraries as samples of fine American art. When we think of Eliza R. Snow, we think of her inspired writings, but she did other creative work with great skill. She made exquisite, fine, hand-made net curtains that are as FRIENDSHIP QUILT (Made by Twentieth Ward Relief Society seventy years ago. Now on display at Utah State Capitol) is different from the rest, and each has a religious or patriotic theme. The name of the woman who made the block is written on it in very small letters, with indelible ink, and is still to be seen by using a magnifying glass. One block of this interesting quilt bears the name of Zina D. H. Young and the inscription, "Holiness to the Lord." Another, on which the needlework is very fine, bears the cherished name RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE rare as they are beautiful. Excellence in one kind of creative activity does not preclude excellence in other kinds. Using the hands stimulates the brain. Refreshment to body and mind comes with the creation of something useful and beautiful. We have in our Mormon Handicraft Shop, which is operated by the Relief Society, some beautiful pieces of hand-hammered copper, much in demand. These are made by a Mormon boy, not yet twenty years old. He has originated unique and interesting designs, and his mother says it requires nearly 3500 swings of the hammer to make a copper bowl less than one foot in diameter. The returns from his work have meant much to the boy as well as a degree of economic security for his widowed mother. One of our women made an exquisite, tatted banquet cloth, which sold from the same shop for nearly one hundred dollars. From a small spool of thread in skilled hands, it grew into a beautiful masterpiece of art and usefulness. I ADMIRE women who can garden and have a chance to practice their art. I passed a little old house one day, which was surrounded by a very beautiful garden. Long rows of zinnias and asters made the place very lovely. Beautiful blue morning-glories, earlier in the season, had transformed the back fence into a bower of delicate blooms. Photographers had come to get pictures, in color, of the rare specimens. Many saw the blue morning-glories and were happier because of them. The planting of a ten cent package of seed was responsible for this profusion of color. 763 The story is told of a certain middle-aged man, both lazy and illiterate, who was made president of a whittling club, because he could carve interesting objects from wood. The recognition he received as president so delighted him that he became interested in work and in time learned to read and write. In the face of some calamity, such as loss of health or the death of a loved one, some people are so bankrupt in interests that they are forced to seek psychiatric or medical aid. Occupational therapy has become an important branch of mental hygiene. Some hospitals are equipped with a wide range of handicraft service aimed to increase or restore mental poise. I know a little old woman who became suddenly blind with a nerve disease of the eyes. She had been accustomed to many of the good things of life; she had lived in comfortable circumstances and had traveled considerably. I called to visit her the other night. A special phonograph, built for the blind, was reciting one of Tennyson's beautiful poems, and this blind woman was working over a rug. A grandchild was helping her sort the colors. The rug was beautiful; few people, with all their faculties unimpaired, could make such a one. The little old woman was cheerful, happy and occupied. The doctors might cite this as an example in which occupational therapy had been prescribed and had worked out successfully, due to the intelligent cooperation of the patient. "When people without money produce commodities they can use, they create new material wealth. 764 Often they bring to themselves satisfactions which even the ability to purchase cannot bring." Whether the object is a painting on canvas, a hand-hammered bowl, or a beautiful afghan, if it serves well the purpose for which it was intended, it is a work of art. Art is simply the best possible way of doing that which needs to be done. The utility of the object is one of the first tests. Any woman who can cook, sew, or garden in a superior way finds happiness, which creative effort brings. The real value obtained from any creative work is what you yourself put into it, not what others think of it. 

 

 Relief Society women should become more interested in handicraft. We must utilize our leisure time. Leisure time should be learning time. "Adult education presumes that the creative spark may be kept alive throughout life." "Making things with the hands has been an everyday practice throughout the ages, while learning through books is for the masses of people a comparatively recent achievement." The proper combination of the two—hand work with head work—results in self-realization and a degree of happiness and security which may be obtained in no other way.