Literature THE MODERN NOVEL Lesson 5 The Tree of Liberty (Tuesday, February 18, 1941) LESSON TOPICS 1. Brief review 2. Historical characters 3. Fictional characters 4. Methods of character revelation 5. Study helps BRIEF REVIEW The last lesson considered the author's life and her particular contribution in The Tree of Liberty. This book aims to make us Americans aware of those strains and influences in our past which should help us to face more wisely our critical present and future. The two-fold significance of the book?historical and fictional?was mentioned, with a suggestion of the intellectual values which may be gained from the facts as well as the emotional value from the dramatic situations. A brief summary of the historical background and of the plot was given. HISTORICAL CHARACTERS Every novel has three essential elements: setting, characters and plot. Our chief interest often lies in the characters. Even if the author emphasizes one of the other elements, he ordinarily does it through the characters. We see the setting through its effect upon the characters, or their reaction to it. We realize the plot, of course, through the characters. The fact that some of the chief figures in The Tree of Liberty are historical adds to the interest in the book; for we see these men alive, in the very activities which gave them a place in history. Some one has said that history tells us what people did, but literature tells us how they felt, which is often more important. And so, in her restoration of the past, Miss Page lets us into the secret places of these great men's personalities, and we see the motives behind their actions, the dreams, the visions, and the courage which are a part of our American heritage. Space will not permit an analysis of these characters, but a few points may help us to see them in their fictionalized roles. Washington was one who helped to nurture the tree of liberty. Early in the book, we are made aware of the force of his character. He seems to be a man of destiny, for he impressed upon those who knew him, even when he was a young colonel in Braddock's Army, that he "was a great-natured man to hold fast to? a great strong man that sets his face to do a thing and will never give in, a man to follow to the day you die." It was this characterization of him by Matthew Howard's uncle that made him a lifelong hero to Matt. The impression was deepened when he first saw Washington (see Ch. I, pp. 32-35) and on various later occasions during the years that followed the Revolution. Once, when it seemed that the ideals Washington was fighting for were about to be lost, he gave a speech which we might listen to with profit today. The occasion was to consider an anonymous letter which had subtly condemned all that had been done, and suggested a return to subservience to England: "Let me conjure you as you value your honor, as you respect the rights of humanity, as you regard the national character of America, to express your utmost horror and detestation of the man who wishes to overthrow the liberties of our country, and who wickedly attempts to deluge our rising empire with blood. By thus determining you will give one more proof of unexampled patriotism and patient virtue, and you will by the dignity of your conduct afford occasion for posterity to say, "Had this day been wanting, the world had never seen the last stage of perfection to which human nature is capable of attaining.' " Others, like Washington, alive and warmly human, move majestically through the pages of the book. There is Patrick Henry, sometimes mistaken as to the rightness of his ideals, but never lacking in earnestness and eloquence. We can feel his magnetic power when a frontier admirer tells of a speech he had heard which shook the hearts of both his foes and friends with terror. 

 ?NOVEMBER, 1940

 LESSON DEPARTMENT He told them of the calamity that would befall them if they failed to follow the lines he advocated: "Whilst he spoke the air hung still," old Zeb declared. "Seemed like he grew beyond the height of mortal man... And his eyes they stared beyond the bounds of life." We can picture him standing so, as he uttered his immortal words: "If we wish to be free we must fight.... The appeal to arms is all that is left to us.... We have no choice; it is too late to retire if we would.... Gentlemen cry peace! Peace! When there is no peace.... Is life so dear and peace so sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may take; but as for me, give me Liberty or give me death!"; We see Hamilton, handsome, cultured, aristocratic, fighting for what he saw as right. An important figure in national life at twenty-two, he won many by his magnetic personality, his brilliancy of mind, his wit and gallantry. Miss Page tells us that: "Everything Hamilton did was done with an air. He met the older men who were his seniors in rank with just the right mingling of deference and dignity; he squired the ladies when they came to headquarters with deft gallantry which any fellow would long to copy, and he parried the thrusts of his particular friends on the staff with wit that never failed its mark." Opposite to Jefferson, he mistrusted the common people. According to his view, "They are fools certainly, most of them; but even fools need to be coerced along the path of honor." He admired England and felt that 789 she was great because she had a governing class of old families and moneyed men; and he felt that to be successful as a nation, America must pattern her government by England's. Jefferson is the most significant historical character in the novel. As the unwavering champion of democracy, he had such amazingly clear vision that his closest associates sometimes could not follow him. This was true of Matthew Howard, who almost worshipped Tom Jefferson from the day in his youth when Jefferson befriended him, a crude frontier lad fighting his way into a new school, and initiated him into a friendship pact that was broken only by death. A few excerpts from the book will point to some of Jefferson's characteristics. Speaking to Matthew's son, Peyton, who gave him the same loyalty that his father did, he said: "For men like us there are always two roads to follow. It makes action difficult and understanding easy. Perhaps our first object, then, should be understanding.... We are embarked on a tremendous experiment, this of setting up a government truly republican?for all men alike. There are those who say that men cannot be trusted to govern themselves. Far less, then, may they be trusted to govern their neighbors." (Jefferson's Inaugural Address, p. 864) Matthew said of him, "He was always thinking of liberty. I have it in mind he asked our schoolmaster before he was twelve if the right to liberty was not one which could never be taken from man." Once he said, "If we let it be known we are defending liberty wherever we 790 find it attacked, men of sober sense will flock to us." We see Jefferson not only as a politician and statesman, but as an affectionate husband and father, a saddened widower, and as one who followed a hobby. Above all, he is revealed as a gentleman of true nobility. Some of the many passages showing Jefferson's character are found on pages 157, 463, 550, 614, 788, and 951. FICTIONAL CHARACTERS The fictional characters are just as "real" as the historical ones. The chief objective of the novelist is to create an illusion of reality. He does this largely by making his people the kind we know in actual life. Who doesn't know a Matthew and a Jane Howard, both so strong in their convictions that they destroy their possibilities for happiness because they know no common ground between two extreme views of life. Just as it was fortunate for our nation that there were both a Hamilton and a Jefferson giving their lives to the care of the tree of liberty, each serving as a balance to the other, so it was fortunate for the descendants of Jane and Matthew that each gave allegiance to a different set of ideals. Without Jane's sense of culture, the need for beauty and order, and Matthew's pride in individual nobility wherever found, but particularly in the rough and rugged men and women willing to work and fight for what they thought was right, the second and third generations of Howards would have lacked the strength and charm so well fused to make them the kind of individuals they were. The sons, Peyton and James, are drawn as distinctly as 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1940

 their parents; and Mary, too, though her early death takes her from the latter half of the story. The loyalty of James and Peyton to each other, to their disagreeing parents, to their different types of leaders is the one characteristic they have in common. The twins of Peyton and Adrienne are interesting from childhood because of their quaint mixture of French and English characteristics. Tom's life, after the tragic death of his brother Adrien, fulfills somewhat the dreams of his grandfather. One interesting phase of the Howards' characters is their family loyalty and affection in spite of divergent political views and ways of life. Besides the immediate members of this central family, there are many other well-drawn characters: Adrienne's liberty-loving French father; Harriet, the aristocratic wife of James; Charlotte, the sweetheart of Adrien; George Martin, frontier husband of Mary; Zeb, the illiterate friend of Matthew; the servants at Elm Hill and Albemarle Hall. Each gives something to the reality and theme of the story. METHODS OF CHARACTERIZATION Novelists reveal their characters directly, by telling their reader what kind of men and women the characters are, or indirectly through what the characters themselves do and say?their attitudes, interests, and the reactions of other characters to them. Miss Page uses both methods. She has the power of the artist to tell much in single strokes of her pen. Peyton's suffering over his deformity is revealed through his habitual drawing of the club foot under his chair. Margaret's inherited sense LESSON DEPARTMENT of refinement is revealed in her love for the coverlet which had been her mother's and her desire to "fix up" the crude mountain cabin. Adrienne reveals her nationality through her sentence structure and quaint little phrases; such as, "madame, my mother," many of which she passed on to her boys. Matthew's frontier nature is kept strongly before us, too, by little manners of speech to which he reverts, particularly when he is excited. One of the chief values of a novel lies in the author's delineation of the intangible elements that make up character and personality. When we see what motives and influences make people what they are, we are able to understand our neighbors, our families, even ourselves better; and we have a deeper sympathy for all fellow beings. Study Helps 1. Give points from the book to show how your understanding of one of the his- 791 torical characters has been increased by the fictional treatment of the character. 2. Relate some incidents which bring out the chief characteristics of some of the created characters?Jane, Matthew, Peyton, etc. 3. Can you recognize some of your own prejudices or those of your friends in the characters of the novel? Does recognition of those prejudices, with their causes and consequences, help you to understand your own and point to ways of overcoming them? 4. Name the characters who remain unchanged by incidents in the story. Name one that changes during the progress of the story, and indicate the causes of character development. 5. Discuss some present-day situations and characters which are comparable to some of those in the book. 6. Discuss the outstanding characteristics of Jefferson and Hamilton. 7. Point out the contribution of these men to our present-day political systems. 8. Does history repeat itself? Illustrate. (Note: In case some of the organizations prefer to use but two instead of three books, an additional lesson could be given on the topics in this lesson. Study helps from 4 to 8 could be used.) Quotations from The Tree of Liberty, by Elizabeth Page, copyright 1939, are reprinted by permission of Farrar and Rinehart, Inc., Publishers.