THE SPIRIT GIVETH LIFE Counselor Donna D. Sorensen EACH of you here today has chosen to make wise use of life, because you have set yourself a serious work to do and will be seeking in the months to come the end of a task well and skillfully performed. Under your direction, more than 71,000 meetings will go forward in the various Relief Societies of the Church. You are the stake officers, and the ward leadership is looking to you for direction; and the kind of attitude you have as you resume your work this fall will provide the keynote for their acceptance of their responsibility. Now, as we begin another year's work in the Relief Society, it is well to recall the objective of this organization in all its work. This has been restated recently for us by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., when he said, "The sole, ultimate aim and purpose of the auxiliary organizations of the Church is to plant and make grow in every member of the Church a testimony of the Christ and of the Gospel, of the divinity of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the mission of Joseph Smith and of the Church, and to bring the people to order their lives in accordance with the laws and principles of the Restored Gospel and Priesthood." Much of the value of this organization to the women of the Church will come through adherence to this objective, which should motivate all our actions and teachings as officers in the Relief Society. We may fit ourselves with all the training at our command to do our task well, but if we neglect calling for aid from our Heavenly Father we will not be as successful as we might otherwise be. All women who are members of the Church have had hands laid on them for the gift of the Holy Ghost. Here is a reservoir from which we may draw and from which we may teach our ward leadership to draw in time of need. The Gospel, with the gift of the Holy Ghost, gives us a basis for decision. This gift gives us, also, a consciousness of unbounded power upon which we may rely when called upon for action and which will "bring things to our remembrance and show us things to come." We should be constantly aware that "we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth...." (I Cor. 2:12-13) THE educational program of this Society stands as a testament to the belief of the leadership of this organization in the truth that "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with 735 us in the resurrection." Such a belief has not only enlarged the scope and range of the educational work offered by this Society, but it has also been a great influence in prompting women to the full discharge of their duties. Most of us are fully acquainted with the work done by missionaries in "opening up" the four corners of the earth to the Gospel message. And yet it is a little difficult to comprehend and realize the magnitude of the additional work which will be done by the ward class leaders this year in acquainting 6,000 additional women with the truths presented in the lessons of the Relief Society. Of the more than 86,000 women who will come under the direction of the ward class leaders of your stakes, many will be women whom life has touched, and ofttimes not kindly. They will be women whose hearts are sick with the bloodshed and horror in the earth. Others who will come indirectly under your direction will be young women for whom life with its responsibility is just beginning and who need the example and the steadying controls which lessons skillfully handled in a spiritual way engenders. Other women will be in attendance in ward meetings whose families are of such an age that they are demanding more and more attention—busy mothers whose lives are crowded with multitudinous duties and who find in these lessons a respite from physical activity with a chance for mental stimulation. Then there will be women there nearing the end of life's road and slowly approaching the "valley of the final shadow." These dear sisters would like to sense a feeling of being 736 wanted and needed. They are looking for comfort and recognition. Deeply implanted in each of the souls of the women is that hunger to be fed words of truth and life. A class leader's ability to satisfy that deep-seated hunger for the bread of life will determine her worth as a teacher in this Church auxiliary, where women have the right to expect a lesson which will minister spiritual comfort and faith. All that is fine and uplifting in the world we would like to embody in these lessons, but we should never forget that in this auxiliary the women should expect and should receive lessons which partake of and manifest the spirit of this great Church. AS stake and General Board leaders, we should encourage the ward class leaders to gain a knowledge of subject matter and a knowledge of the fundamental principles of teaching. Both are extremely necessary and essential factors in good teaching, but in addition to these is the spirit of the Lord which stands ready to aid us. "It is not enough that teaching be intellectual and pedagogical, but it must be impregnated with the spirit of the Lord." We need to be aware that one can make excellent preparation to the point that probably a feeling of self-sufficiency enters in without our being aware of it. When this occurs, and we stand before the women without the reliance upon the Lord which we should have, we find that the lesson fails to touch the hearts of our listeners and our words are like seeds falling on barren ground. But when we have enriched our educational background and improved our knowledge of teaching principles, 

 

 and exercised the gift of the Holy Ghost by reliance upon the Lord in our task, then can we understand with Paul when he said, "... And when I am weak, then am I strong." (II Cor. 12:10) This year in your work as stake leaders, would you possess a powerful spiritual force driving you to the good life? Then be duly appreciative of God's blessings and His goodness to you. This is not difficult for all of us to do when we realize that our lives are cast in pleasant places. We know the trees, the flowers, the birds, the sunsets in our peaceful valleys. But in other parts of the world, thousands of people are seeking dark underground places from the death-filled skies which surround them. In the light of these blessings, should we not expect that our hearts should be turned toward Him, the giver of all good blessings, in humble thankfulness for our existence here, for the blessings of the Gospel and for the great organization of the Relief Society in which women may grow and develop. This year, let us so appreciate God's blessings and goodness that we may tender our kind offices to His children as the only return in our power for His continual favors to us. Let our contribution this year be the most perfect we have yet made. Let us mold our thinking and fashion our lives so that we become as a vessel "meet for the Master's use and prepared unto every good work." And as the year proceeds, how might we know whether we are succeeding in this task we have resolved to do? In Galatians we have a standard of measurement given us whereby we may know whether we are carrying the spirit of the Lord RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE with us in our work, for we are told, "... The fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance." Ask yourself constantly: "Do I have these gifts within myself to give—peace, love, shelter, encouragement, forgiveness — and am I giving them now in my own home?" If you are, you cannot fail to impart them to this organization. Ask your ward class leaders: "Is your teaching renewing the spiritual strength of the women? Is your teaching stimulating faith within you? Do you radiate sympathy and understanding? Do you encourage class members by your presentation? Does God become more real to all who hear you?" We might well take as our motto 737 this year in Relief Society work the words of Paul to the Ephesians (6:10, 13-18): "Be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might. Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness. And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked; and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God: praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit...."