Vol. XXVII NOVEMBER, 1940 No. 11 C? EDITORIAL ??Our Privilege and Blessing a Prophet." These words ascended as a prayer of gratitude from thousands of hearts at the recent semi-annual general conference of the Church. The privilege of having our Prophet in attendance at the meetings and of partaking of his influence and spirit caused us to thank our Heavenly Father for His blessings unto us. Our prayers went up in behalf of our President; and when he gave us his blessing, our hearts were filled with rejoicing. The inspired words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay, as well as those of other Church leaders, were a blessing, a comfort, and a source of wise guidance to the Latter-day Saints. How blessed are we of the Lord! Twice each year the women of the Church are privileged to assemble in general Relief Society conference to review their work, receive instructions, partake of the spirit of those who have been called to direct the work of this great organization and to renew their faith in its divinity. This year our blessings seemed unusually abundant. Twice each year we are privileged to meet together in a general Church counsel, and blessings from men holding the Priesthood of God. We are never left in darkness as to the path to take, but are warned and forewarned. 'The voices of God's authorized agents on earth direct the course of all who will listen and take heed. There is no excuse for anyone to say, "I know not the road to take," for it is written and spoken by the prophets of the Lord. Twice each year we meet that they might interpret for our understanding "the way and the ways and the way." It is our choice to obey authority and follow counsel or to refuse the light given. Only six months elapse before we again are given opportunity to partake of the conference spirit, to fill our souls with spiritual food and rejoice in the goodness and greatness of our Father. He has, indeed, provided for us in our weakness; He has seen that we are in need of constant spiritual guidance and has provided the way. Let us show our gratitude unto Him by obedience to the words of His prophets, by heeding warning counsel, by serving in His cause in the way appointed unto each, by "thanking our God for a Prophet," in actions as well as in song. Leda T. Jensen Edith S. Elliott Thank Thee, O God, For conference to.