Receive warning, EXCERPTS FROM "WILFORD WOODRUFF" By Matthias F. Cowley Selected by Marianne C. Sharp (March, 1844, on leaving for a mission to the Eastern States) "This was the last mission the Prophet ever gave to the Twelve Apostles in this dispensation. He wished none of us to remain by him except Willard Richards. Apostle John Taylor was later required to remain and take charge of the printings and publications. The Prophet then turned to me and said: 'Brother Woodruff, I want you to go, and if you do not you will die.' His words rested with mighty weight upon me when he spoke, and I have often thought since, in contemplation of the awful tragedy of his and Hyrum's martyrdom, how truly his words would have been verified had I remained.... I took the parting hand of Hyrum and Joseph at their own dwellings. Joseph stood in the entry of his door when I took his hand to bid him farewell.... As he took me by the hand, he said, 'Brother Woodruff, you are about to start upon your mission.' I answered, 'Yes.' He looked me steadily in the eye for a time without speaking a word; he looked as though he would penetrate my very soul, and at the same time seemed unspeakably sorrowful, as if weighed down bya foreboding of something dreadful. He finally spoke in a mournful voice, 'God bless you, Brother Woodruff; go in peace.'... Sad were the last months of the Prophet's life." (Page 205) "The Lord will not permit me or any other man to lead this people astray. If an Apostle does not magnify his calling, the Lord will remove him and not permit him to lead away the people." (Page 418) "Twenty-two years ago today, I drove the team which brought President Brigham Young from Emigration Canyon into this city. He lay upon a bed, sick in my carriage. As soon as his eyes rested upon the beautiful yet desert scene of the valley before us, he said: "This is the place; for the Lord has shown it to me in a vision.'" (Page 460) "There is one subject I wish to speak upon, and that is the keeping of a journal with respect to the dealings of God with us... But when the Prophet Joseph organized the Quorum of the Twelve, he counseled them to keep a history of their lives, and gave his reasons why they should do so. I have had this spirit and calling upon me since I first entered this Church. I made a record from the first sermon I heard, and from that day until now I have kept a daily journal, Whenever I heard Joseph Smith preach, teach, or prophesy, I always felt it my duty to write it; I felt uneasy and could not eat, drink, or sleep until I did write; and my mind has been so exercised upon this subject that when I heard Joseph Smith teach and had no pencil or paper, I would go home and sit down and write the whole sermon, almost word for word and sentence by sentence, as it was delivered, and when I had written it, it was taken from me; I remembered it no more. This was the gift of God to me." (Page 477) 1869?"Look at him (Joseph F. Smith), children, for he resembles the Prophet Joseph more than any man living. He will become the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I want you, every one of you, to remember what I have told you this morning." (Page 536) Joseph F. Smith became President of the Church in 1901. "Bishop Hunter said on several occasions that I would outlive President Taylor and become President of the Church. On these occasions, I rebuked the Bishop and asked him not to prophesy of me such a thing. Each time he answered, 'Nevertheless it is true, and will come to pass.' " (Page 560) 1897?"Live near to God; pray while young; learn to pray; learn to cultivate the Holy Spirit of God; link it to you and it will become a spirit of revelation unto you, inasmuch as you nourish it. I feel thankful myself that I have lived to see this day. I declare unto you that there are many in the flesh who will remain so until the coming of the Son of Man."