ADAM BEDE By George Eliot
A choice is offered of this book in two buy. We recommend (b) edition.
(a) Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers,
Special Relief Society Price
(b) The Best Known Novels of George Eliot, Modern Library, Inc., which includes four novels
Regular Price $1.25
Salt Lake City
THE TREE OF LIBERTY By Elizabeth Page
The Book Store is not allowed to sell this book at a cheaper price
By Bess Streeter Aldrich
Regular Price $2.50
Special Relief Society Price $2.00
CHRISTMAS CARDS. See our beautiful assortment.
466 24th Street, Ogden
Foresight
Those rugged pioneers of the West, whose memory we delight to honor, left the impress of their solid virtues upon us of the present in many ways. It is not at all strange that in spite of violently changing conditions, the habit of preparing for the future, which those pioneers practiced, should find expression in our day in the storage of grain and other food against the day of possible need. Indeed, there seems to be something eternally right and sound in the habits of life and the methods of our pioneers.
This organization, throughout its years of service which the pioneer founders of this business practiced. While technical methods and equipment have vastly improved, the principle of giving the buyer the best printing at the lowest possible price is as rigidly followed today as it was ninety years ago.
Printing Order
NEW PRESS
of catering to the users of good print-
THE DESERET
29 Richards Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
CONFERENCE ISSUE
Our Cover
The MAYFLOWER, its 102 pilgrim passengers, their ideals and purposes come forcibly to our minds at this season of the year. This year we may more fully appreciate the determination that directed this small boat against a comparatively unknown ocean, and the band of men and women who sacrificed the personal comfort and safety possible in the old world for the privileges of freedom in an unknown, savageinhabited land, where they must needs start with their hands, a few tools, and faith in God—to build AMERICA.
She finest works of man is building the Character of Man
LARKIN MORTUARY
LARKIN & SONS
260 East South Temple
Salt Lake City
466 24th Street, Ogden
Phone 4-9126
Telephone 821
LARKIN MORTUARY CO.
6003 Compton Avenue
Los Angeles, California
Jefferson 1244
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Index to Advertisers
Beneficial Life Ins. Co. Outside Back Cover
Deseret Book Co. Inside Back Cover
Fisher Baking Co. 725
Larkin Mortuary Inside Front Cover
L. D. S. Business College 725
Telex 725
"L. D. S. Training Pays!"
THE L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE is SECOND to NONE in
Equipment Buildings Faculty Employment Service
It's the Right School for Your Commercial Education
Ask for our "Bulletin of Information"
L. D. S. Business College SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
UNLESS YOU ARE TOTALLY DEAF
CLEARER HEARING
Perhaps you are only slightly hard of hearing? or deafness may be a serious handicap in your business and social life... possibly you have felt that hearing aids are too conspicuous... or you may be wearing one regularly...
In any case, you'll like the New Telex with the really clear and life-like hearing it produces... instantly.
Voices and sounds which have been indistinct or blurred... Telex brings them to you with all their richness and quality. There's no objectionable distortion and you'll wonder how it can produce ALL sounds... Low tones... High tones... With such amazing clarity and naturalness.
Telex does it with vacuum tube amplification and the crystal microphone.
Smooth... is the word you'll use... for music, too... Music with a new meaning for you. And it won't be necessary for you to learn to hear... Telex performs as you've always hoped a hearing aid would perform... Without tiring you. Even whispers are audible... And it is helpful on the telephone. Nervous strain to hear?... Just try this new Telex for greater comfort and hearing ease.
There are many other things you'll like about the new Telex... The compact battery arrangement... Selective amplification for your particular needs... Unit construction... 25 per cent more battery life... Guaranteed... And, here's good news... Only a few dollars more than ordinary hearing aids.
Write for a folder on Telex High Fidelity hearing... Or better... Visit the new consultation offices for a complete analysis of your hearing problem. Courteous, efficient consultants are also available for home demonstrations if you prefer.
The New Telex can mean a new life for you... defeating deafness.
SALT LAKE CO.
511 McIntyre Bldg. Phone 5-4036
A PRODUCT OF THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS
Be sure to TRY FISHER'S BETTER MAYFLOWER DOUGHNUTS
You'll thrill to the taste of Fisher's DUTCH BREAD
You'll like its golden-hued crust and uniform texture so ideal for toast. And... Love its delicious flavor!
1844 So. State Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine