Because of its importance, let us try to understand what Priesthood really is, then we can study our relationship thereto. Our first teachers' lesson outline defines Priesthood in a quotation from President Joseph F. Smith: "It is nothing more nor less than the power of God delegated to man by which man can act in the earth for the salvation of the human family, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and act legitimately; not assuming that authority, not borrowing it from generations that are dead and gone, but authority that has been given in this day in which we live by ministering angels and spirits from above, direct from the presence of Almighty God." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 173) The important thing to note here is that where Priesthood is rightly used, all acts in the Church are performed with authority restored from our Heavenly Father; they are per- 738 formed legitimately. None of the great reformers of the past has ever made such a claim. Even Luther never professed any right except that of harmonizing church teaching with the Bible. The modern Prophet, however, claimed that this authority was given to him under the outstretched hands of resurrected beings who had received it from Christ Himself. With the Prophet Joseph were witnesses who testified to this fact until the day of their death. The spirit bears witness to me and to you that this is true. If we really desire to understand any subject, we must study it, and Priesthood is no exception. Our first source of information is the Doctrine and Covenants. Look up the subject in the Concordance and study carefully every reference. Read especially Section 107; also 121, verses 34 to the end of the Section. Study the chapters dealing with Priesthood in the Discourses of Brigham Young and Gospel Doctrine by President Joseph F. Smith. In the book which the Priesthood is using this winter, Priesthood and Church Government, the subject is treated in full. Chapter 7 deals especially with the functioning of the Priesthood in the home. Those who have kept the Relief Society Magazine will find in the issues of October and November, 1933, a discussion of this subject as it affects women, entitled "Priesthood and Womanhood." This was enlarged somewhat and reprinted in the Church Section of the Deseret News for January and February, 1934. The purpose of Priesthood should be understood. Since Priesthood is the power of God delegated to man, it must be used for the benefit of 

 

 the entire human family, especially for those who accept and use its power. President Lorenzo Snow has said: "The Priesthood, or authority in which we stand, is the medium or channel through which our Heavenly Father has purposed to communicate light, intelligence, gifts, powers and spiritual and temporal salvation unto the present generation." To use a well-known simile, we may liken the Priesthood to electricity which brings light and power unto every home that wills to use it. It may be installed in any and every home to benefit the entire family if they will pay the price and make the proper connections. But the connections must be made correctly and by one who is authorized to do so or the house will remain in darkness. We should understand further that every office in the Church, whether in the Priesthood quorums or in the auxiliaries, is held by delegated Priesthood authority. To quote our first lesson outline: "The Priesthood is the governing authority of the Church. All offices in the Church derive their power, their virtue, their authority from the Priesthood." So each office in every auxiliary, from the least responsible to the head thereof, is held by one who has received the right to officiate therein by delegated Priesthood authority. A universal Priesthood was promised by the ancient prophets. In the Restored Church every righteous man is entitled to hold the Priesthood and administer the duties of each office in its order as he is called and ordained by those having authority. This universal Priesthood is but RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE a fulfillment of prophecy. After Moses had led the Children of Israel into the wilderness of Sinai, he told them: "Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people: for all the earth is mine. And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests, and an holy nation." (Exodus 19:5, 6) The people refused to listen to these teachings of Moses, and never since the days of the Savior until the restoration of the Gospel in our day has this been possible. All other Christian churches have but a chosen few who hold the priesthood. One need only attend a general conference of our Church to be assured that this is indeed a "kingdom of priests" so-called. We are told in Lesson 4 of our series, "The most humble man has the same power and authority of the Priesthood which he holds as the most prominent or wealthy one. His worldly possessions or position do not enter into his standing in the Priesthood, but only his faithfulness in living according to the teachings of the Gospel. All men who hold the Priesthood may act in an official capacity when called upon to do so. The Priesthood brings to the individual man a sense of his true value in the sight of God." WOMEN do not hold the Priesthood directly, but they do share with father or husband in all the blessings which result from honoring this great power. In Priesthood and Church Government, page 83, we read: "The Priesthood is for the benefit of all members of the Church. Men have no greater claim than women upon 739 the blessings that issue from the Priesthood and accompany its possession. "Woman does not hold the Priesthood, but she is a partaker of the blessings of the Priesthood. That is, the man holds the Priesthood, performs the priestly duties of the Church, but his wife enjoys with him every other privilege derived from the possession of the Priesthood." Our present Church Historian, Joseph Fielding Smith, makes this clear in a quotation from The Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith: "The Prophet Joseph Smith made this relationship clear. He spoke of delivering the keys of the Priesthood to the Church, and said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive them with their husbands, that the Saints whose integrity has been tried and who proved faithful, might know how to ask the Lord and receive an answer. He exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in, their husbands whom God has appointed for them to honor, and in those faithful men whom God has placed at the head of the Church to lead His people; that we should arm and sustain them with our prayers, for the keys of the Kingdom are about to be given to them, that they may be able to detect everything false; as well as to all the Elders who shall prove their integrity in due season." Woman's responsibility on earth is to the future of the race as well as to the present generation. Understanding these precious truths, no woman in the Church may say that since she cannot hold the Priesthood 740 it is no concern of hers. To use a homely illustration again, it is just as though she were to sit in a dark house refusing to turn on the electricity because she is not an official or an employee of the electric company. She would better rejoice that she can use all the benefits of electric power without carrying any of the burden of administering the electric plants. Woman's responsibility to the Priesthood is fourfold: to understand fully the meaning as well as the blessings which come from the righteous exercise of this great power; to honor Priesthood in our hearts and by our actions and to value it in our own lives if we are called upon to be an officer or teacher in any auxiliary organization; to assist our husbands (or fathers, brothers or sweethearts) to guard and honor their great privilege of possessing this delegated power; to train our sons (or other women's sons) to be prepared for the exercise of this gift when it shall be bestowed upon them. We should also train our daughters to understand these truths, so that they may choose their boy-friends wisely and encourage them to live and merit the blessings which are theirs if they but prove worthy. Therefore, no home in the Church, even that of a widow and only daughter, is so remote or so placed that the inmates can truthfully say that Priesthood does not concern them. The rewards are great when Father honors his Priesthood and meets all its requirements. With Mother's help and cooperation, a_ perfect teamwork results, which always bespeaks a life of peace and understanding. In such a home there is 

 

 no sex rivalry, for woman's life work is of equal importance to that of husband and father, and woman may hold her place by the side of her husband — for they two are one. "This is made clear, as an example, in the Temple service of the Church. The ordinances of the Temple are distinctly of Priesthood character, yet women have access to all of them, and the highest blessings of the Temple are conferred only upon a man and his wife jointly." (Priesthood and Church Government, p. 83) The Temple ceremonies are the highest expression of the Priesthood power on earth. When we honor them, we honor the Priesthood. When the women of this Church learn to understand and to magnify their relationship to the Priesthood, greater blessings than any yet dreamed of will be their portion. I feel that the General Board was inspired when they chose this subject for the visiting teachers' messages. Every home needs the Priesthood, the key to which is found in Doctrine and Covenants, 121:34-46: "No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile —reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love towards him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death." Priesthood is the power that makes the Gospel of Jesus Christ work.