1 Tribute To President Heber J. Grant Elder Bryant S. Hinckley PRESIDENT Heber J. Grant comes to his eighty-fourth anniversary [November 22, 1940] enjoying the universal confidence and affection of a great people. The present state of his health is a shining testimony of his faith and of the goodness and mercy of our Heavenly Father. Few men indeed have achieved so nobly in so many fields of human endeavor. He is well endowed. He has a vigorous and resourceful mind —always able to think faster and clearer than most men. His intrinsic honesty and his transparent frankness win the confidence of all who meet him. His justice, his mercy, his forgiveness, his generosity, are all princely. His friendship is intimate, sparkling, and constant. He has a native dignity that attracts attention in any group, and this is enhanced by a keen sense of humor. He enjoys a good story and always has one to tell. No other man in this generation has possessed in so high a degree the capacity for making friends and creating good-will for his people. I am well within the mark when I say that the greatest personal tribute ever paid to any living citizen of Utah was paid to President Grant on his eighty-second birthday by five hundred of the leading men of the state and many from beyond its borders. The great majority of these men were not members of the Church. That tribute was a spontaneous expression of their personal esteem for the President. We know of no man who has more faithfully devoted himself to the advancement of human betterment through the restored plan of salvation than has he. The Lord has sustained him in his calling. The Church has prospered greatly under his leadership. The President is a great leader, because he always leads by example. He preaches the Word of Wisdom, but he lives it first; he practises the law of tithing, and then preaches it. His life affords many rare examples of continuity of effort. His personal achievements as a result of persistent effort should be recorded in school books so that generations to come might be inspired by them. You cannot defeat him. Calamities have engulfed him, disaster has swept over him, but he has never remained submerged; he has risen victoriously above every assault. Rising above all of his noble endowments, permeating all of his high endeavors, is the conviction that work, relentless work, coupled with faith in Jesus Christ, can accomplish wonders. While the dominant concern of his life is the 728 Church and Kingdom of God, to which he has dedicated his time and his energy, he has in addition to all of this rendered notable public service. He is a man of deep spirituality, at the same time eminently practical. President Grant knows the meaning of poverty and struggle; he also knows the keen joy that comes to those who win through hard and honest endeavor. He is a man of simple habits, approachable and democratic in his ways. It requires an intimate touch to appreciate the promptings of his great heart. His sympathy for the poor reveals the nobility of his soul. Here are two simple incidents told by his daughter, Mrs. Lucy Grant Cannon, president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association of the Church: "An artist came to sell Father a picture. He did not have a space on his walls to hang a picture, but the artist needed money. So Father told him he had always been sorry he had let him sell his last picture to him so cheap. He gave him an extra $50 for the previous picture, and suggested that the artist might sell the picture he had to someone else." How like him! Another incident: "A sister who was helping in the President's home had been assessed $50 on a new ward chapel. She made no complaint about it, but this word reached the President, who was then in England. Soon a letter came to this sister with a check enclosed. She was to use the $25 to help pay her assessment. The letter was written in the President's own handwriting. She felt that she wanted to return the check; however, she did not return it, but gave 

 

 it to the ward in addition, making her donation $75 instead of $50." Sister Cannon relates that years later when she visited this sister, who was then nearly ninety years old and almost blind, she went to her drawer and brought the letter for Sister Cannon to read. She had cherished that letter all those years. Cases of this kind are a part of his daily life. His heart is full of human sympathy, and that sympathy must always find expression in deeds of kindness. The record of his deeds of helpfulness and encouragement would reveal a soul known only to those intimately acquainted with him. No wonder he has a hold on the affections of the people! He loves people, and his love expresses itself in deeds. The depth and tenderness of his great heart is best recorded in his love for his family and his mother. His affection for his mother was beautiful—a bright example of filial devotion. His mother, Rachel Ivins Grant, was for more than thirty years president of