LESSON DEPARTMENT In accepting social engagements or in arranging social affairs, the wife should always consider that the husband's Church duties come first and should not be put aside for other things. The same standard could well be followed by girls and boys in the home. By her interest in the organization of her home and home activities, a mother may make her sons and daughters attach great importance to the Priesthood and to the responsibility of the family to help sustain and honor it. President Joseph F. Smith, in 785 speaking of the duties of wives and children, said that they "should sustain the head of the household and encourage him in the discharge of his duties, and do all in their power to aid him in the exercise of the rights and privileges which God has bestowed upon the head of the home." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 360) Home Discussion Helps It is important in home planning that the really vital things should be kept foremost. Non-essentials that do not bear directly on the spiritual and physical wellbeing of the family are the things that should be neglected if anything must be. Work-and-Business NUTRITION Lesson 5 Dietary Reinforcements (Tuesday, February 11, 1941) YOUR body will make the best use of an adequate food supply if all of its parts are in good working order and if habits are healthful. The only way to know if your body is functioning correctly is through a health examination from a competent physician. This annual check-up is your best birthday present and may really insure you with "many happy returns of the day." This routine examination will usually discover any organic or functional disorder in its early stages, so that correction or treatment can be made before too serious damage takes place. Your thyroid gland controls the rate at which your body burns its food. If an examination shows an over-active thyroid, that may be the cause of an extreme underweight condition, regardless of the quality or quantity of food eaten. An under-active thyroid is one cause of excessive overweight. Other physiological disturbances will prevent your body from making the most efficient use of the food nutrients with which you supply it. Your doctor's examination will locate such disorders if they are present. Follow his suggestions for correcting any defects which he may find. Such an examination may give you the satisfaction of knowing that all parts of your body are functioning correctly. Your children need regular health examinations also. Protect 786 them against smallpox and other contagious diseases through vaccinations and inoculations. Good health habits are important dietary reinforcements. Serve your meals regularly, at the same time each day; allow not more than half an hour's variation from day to day. This regular meal schedule is important from infancy to old age. The babe whose activities come with a rhythmic regularity can develop a high state of nervous stability. The meal schedule for the very young members of the household, and sometimes for the very old ones, will need to come oftener than three times a day. Regardless of the number of meals, have them come at the same hour each day. An adequate diet served on a regular schedule must be eaten in an atmosphere of calm and leisure if normal digestion is to take place. Any emotional upset during or near the meal hour puts the brakes on the digestive machinery. Anger, fear, worry, hurry, or grief disturbs the appetite and prevents proper digestion of food. This happens to the small child as well as to the adult. Emotional stability increases one's digestive ability. Make the meal hour long enough so that food can be eaten leisurely. A proper balance between rest and exercise is another aid to good nutrition. Many children, and some adults, come to the table too tired to eat. A rest period just before the meal is good. Some people have too little activity to work up a normal appetite for food. More out-of-door exercise will help these people, provided there is no more serious cause of low appetite. Just at the time when young people are making their last heavy 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1940

 growth spurt, when they need more hours of sleep and rest than they did a year or two previously, they frequently get much less. The death rate from tuberculosis is gradually slowing down for the total population. However, its numbers are still on the increase for the late adolescent and early adult years. In 1907 it was the leading cause of death. By 1937, it had moved down to sixth place. It still is the leading cause of death among young persons, especially young women. Poor food habits combined with too little rest make these over-active adolescents an easy prey to this disease. Your body may starve for sleep and rest just as it may starve for food. Sleep is nature's restorer. Nature repairs worn-out tissues and builds new ones while you sleep. If the sleeping period is too short, normal growth and repair cannot take place. Have enough sleep with a regular bed-time hour each night, and see that conditions in your home are conducive to good sleep. Serve the heaviest meal of the day at noon, if possible. A heavy evening meal prevents good sleep, especially with children. Sleep on a comfortable bed with springs which do not sag. Sleep under light-weight bed covering. Woolen quilts or blankets are much lighter and warmer than are those made from cotton. Sleep in a dark, quiet room with windows open. Have separate beds for each child, if possible. Their sleep will be much more sound if they sleep alone. Do not let children sleep with adults. Close your tensions and worries out of the bedrooms. _ Relax and go to sleep. LESSON DEPARTMENT Relaxing Exercises Take time out in the early afternoon and get yourself relaxed with some of the following exercises: 1. Lie flat on the back with the arms stretched above the head, hands and feet on the floor. Stretch the body by pushing the heels down and the head and shoulders up. While the body is stretched, keep the shoulders flat but raise the right hip. Let the right hip down, then raise the left hip. Next keep the hips flat and raise first the right shoulder, then the left shoulder. Rest and relax all over. Repeat each step of the stretching and relaxing four or five times. The alternate stretching and relaxing reduces tension and stiffness. 2. Lie on back with legs stretched straight, heels down, with arms down at side of body. Lift the right arm and let it drop limply with the hand just above the head. Rest a 787 minute and let it drop down, perfectly relaxed, beside the body. Repeat with left arm. Continue six or eight times until all tension is removed from arms, back of neck, and shoulder joints. 3. Lie flat on back with small pillow under the head, with legs stretched straight. Put the hands back of the head and pull the head gently forward with a slow, steady pull. Release the hands and let the head drop on the pillow, as if it were a heavy weight. Repeat four or five times. References Guiding the Adolescent. Child Management. Why Sleep. Children's Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor, Washington, D. C. Keeping Fit Through Exercise, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. Good Food Habits for Children, Bureau of Home Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.