Mission LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired) Lesson XIV The Twelve Apostles Lead the Church (Tuesday, February 18, 1941) REALLY, it was not Joseph Smith that the mob wanted when they killed him, but the cause which he stood for and directed. This is clearly shown in what followed the great silence, of which mention was made in a previous lesson. The murderers were never punished by the law. They were arrested it is true, and tried in a sort of way, for everybody knew who they were. But the trial was a farce. Men who sympathized with the murderers, armed with rifles and pistols, filled the courthouse and threatened the prosecuting attorneys, the witnesses for them, the jury, and even the judge. It was a public scandal. Of course, the verdict was, "Not guilty." Everyone knew what it would be beforehand. The enemies of the Saints, for that is what they were, lay low for a while. They were waiting to see what would happen. They fully expected that Mormonism would go to pieces, that the members of the Church would leave Illinois forever. Then the state would be rid of the Faith. But imagine their surprise when they saw what was actually taking place. Nauvoo went on as before. Indeed, more Latter-day Saints came off the boats from down the river. They had arrived from England. Others came from the States and Canada. Instead of getting smaller, Nauvoo was getting larger every month. Then, too, new industries were starting, to give employment to the newcomers, and the Temple continued to be built?faster, in fact, than when the Prophet was alive. The non-Mormons in Illinois saw then, for the first time, that in place of the one head they had cut off, twelve heads had taken its place. Then they got busy again. FIRST, the Nauvoo Charter was repealed. This left the city without a government other than that of the county, and we know what that was. There was no more Legion, there were no more city courts. It was as if the people of Illinois wanted to leave the citizens of Nauvoo a prey to the lawless. Later, meetings were held in various parts of the county by "indignant" non-Mormons, to protest against the Saints remaining in the county. And in order to make their protests look better, they actually set fire to places that belonged to themselves and charged the crime to the Mormons. This seems unbelievable, but there is plenty of evidence to show that it was a fact. In this way, a strong feeling was aroused against the Mormons in Illinois. The Church leaders also called meetings of their own people, to lay the facts before the people of the county. They chose missionaries to lay their case before some of the more reasonable men in the state. It did no good, however, and LESSON DEPARTMENT so they had to agree to leave Illinois. Such men as Senator Douglas and Governor Ford advised them to go farther west, to Oregon. MEANTIME, work was hurried on the Temple. In a revelation, through the Prophet, the Saints had been told that they must build this Temple, so that they might receive their endowments. That is, that they might do work for their dead and also do their own sealings among the living. If they did not do this, they should be "rejected" by the Lord. That is why they hurried to finish the Temple before they left Nauvoo. This haste to finish it was misunderstood by the non-Mormons as a determination to remain. But the Saints had decided to go when "grass began to grow and water to run" in the spring. The leaders knew where they were going. They would go where the Prophet had designed to take his people before his death. The place he had chosen was the Rocky Mountains, fifteen hundred miles to the west. There were no settlers in those valleys, none to "molest or make afraid." Joseph had sent men to Washington, D. C., for the purpose of obtaining the consent of the Congress to make the move. But the Congress was not interested. Then, too, the men sent to the Capitol had also studied books and maps about the West. So the Prophet, and later Brigham Young, knew a good deal about the country to which they were going to lead their people, and also the best route there. LONG before the grass began to grow and the waters to run the Saints were off. But not before they 797 had finished the Temple far enough to get their endowments and do much work for their dead. Early in February, their teams and wagons crossed the river on the ice. From that time on until all had left Nauvoo there was an almost steady stream of covered wagons going over the Mississippi?at first on the ice and then in boats and rafts. The first wagons stayed for a few days on Sugar Creek about nine miles out from Nauvoo. Here there was a grove of trees, where they encamped. It had snowed just before this. Brushing away the snow, they pitched their tents in almost freezing weather. The first night, with a falling thermometer, nine babies were born.. The earlier days of the trek were distressing in the extreme. Snow lay on the earth to the depth of six or eight inches at first. At the camping grounds there was little else than slush and snow. Men, women, and children were often forced to sleep on corn stalks or tree branches laid on the wet earth. Later the rains came, to make matters worse. Teams had to be doubled up. Wagons broke down. Sometimes a double team could not pull a wagon down hill, so heavy was the mud. A fire under these circumstances was all but impossible on the prairie. At two places between the Mississippi and the Missouri rivers, the men stopped long enough to make a temporary town. At Garden Grove, for instance, they plowed the ground, planted it in wheat, potatoes, and other things, fenced it in, built log houses, and then left it for those who were to follow to take care of and to reap the crops. This was fine teamwork. At Mount Pisgah, farther on, they did the same thing. Only here they established a town of considerable size, since it was nearer their destination for the time being. When the first companies reached the Missouri River, they camped at Council Bluffs. Here they established another town, the main town in this part of Iowa. Presently, many of them crossed the stream into Nebraska, where they made another town?Winter Quarters. In these two places and smaller places along the river and out a little way from it, the Mormon people lived till they found their new home in the West. Before making these settlements, however, the Church authorities obtained permission of the governor of Iowa to live there for a time. They had to make peace, also, with the Indians?which was not always an easy thing to do in those times; for the natives were beginning to feel that the white men were their enemies, and they wanted to drive them off their hunting grounds. But the Saints got along with the red men better than most other people, because of their friendliness for these persecuted folk. In a little while, a county government was established in western Iowa, mainly for the Saints. They took part in politics, they published a paper, they raised crops, and they lived on good terms with everyone to the east. Meantime, all the Mormons left Nauvoo for the prairie. QUESTIONS 1. Why were the non-Mormons not satisfied with the death of the Prophet? 2. Why did they want to have the Saints leave Illinois? Where did the Saints propose to go? Why there? 3. Who began the inquiry about the West? Why did he wish to go there? 4. Why did the Saints want to finish the Temple? What benefit did they derive from it? 5. Why did the Saints suffer like this? What had they to gain? To lose? Describe the journey to the Missouri River. Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons. ? ERRATUM HE Church History lesson, No. XIII, "Who Shall Take the Prophet's Place," published in the October issue of the Magazine, stated that Mrs. Mary Field Garner, who was a witness of the transformation of Brigham Young's voice to that of the voice of the Prophet, had died in 1938, not far from Salt Lake. Sister Garner, now 104 years of age, lives with her daughter-in-law at Roy, Utah. She is in good health, looking much younger than her years. On September 22, 1940, she was among those over 100 years of age who were honored by being presented with a special badge by the Old-Folks Central Committee, of which Presiding Bishop Le Grand - Richards is chairman. 

 ?NOVEMBER, 1940

 Give BOOKS For Christmas "There is a peculiar dignity attached to the gift of a Book that is in no way affected by its price." We have the largest stock of Books in the Intermountain West?fiction, non-fiction, biography, travel books, standard works, L. D. S. Church Literature, etc. SPECIAL New EDITION Just off the Press "A Voice From the Dust" A sacred history of Ancient Americans Edited and arranged by GENET BINGHAM DEE @ Price $2.50 Postage Prepaid OTHER TIMELY NEW BOOKS FOR L. 0. 5. Ww, HUME LIBRARIES Cumorah's Gold Bible....$2.25 E. Cecil McGavin One Who Was Valiant...$3.00 Clarissa Young Spencer Hello Life (New Edition)__......$1.50 Elsie Talmage Brandley Unto The Hills...$1.50 Richard L. Evans For This My Glory...$2.50 Paul Bailey His Many Mansions...$2.50 Rulon S. Howells Gospel Doctrine (New Ed.)_..$2.50 Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith MAKE THIS FRIENDLY BOOK STORE YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING CENTER Besides BOOKS, of all kinds, we have a great variety of other Gift Articles?in fact, this is "the Store of a thousand gifts." Chromium, Brass, Copperware, Glassware, Pottery, Book Ends, Gift Stationery, Fountain Pens and Pencils, Electric Clocks, Games, Christmas Wrappings and Seals, Moving Picture Cameras, Portable Typewriters, Radios, Greeting Cards. And a Marvelous Assortment of Personalized Christmas Cards DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City. Utah Phone 3-4591 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Tiny shoes for today's tiny feet. But some tomorrow these tiny feet must stand in big - shoes?IMPORTANT SHOES?in important places. How necessary, therefore, that he be adequately trained and prepared to compete successfully in a world that daily fixes a higher premium on skill and technical knowledge. Make his future secure. A FUTURE GUARANTEED The Outcome, Of a Beneficial income BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE (Him Our COMPANY = Home OFFICE?BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT  The evergreen?an emblem of undying beauty and strength?is now regarded as the great World Tree, Yggdrasil, to which the Northmen, according to legend, likened the sunrise and the world hundreds of years ago. To us, the life and beauty of the evergreen are symbolical of the ever living, ennobling philosophies of Jesus, which are as glorious, far-reaching and everlasting as the sun, or world, appeared to be to the Northmen. Today, brightening our Christmas firesides with its tinseled branches, the evergreen stands as a talisman?magic with the quaintness of this old belief and resplendent with the glory of the message, just as old, yet ever new, which is revivified in our minds this Christmas season.?R. J. She Frontispiece Of Such Is The Kingdom, the frontispiece picture of this issue of the Magazine. Is a copy of a bas-relief plaque, the work of Alice Morrey Bailey, a local artist who frequently contributes poetry, prose and fiction to the Magazine. This plaque won first prize in the amateur section of the Fine Arts Department at the 1940 Utah State Fair. This is the fourth consecutive year that the work of this gifted young woman has received recognition at the State Fair. During the month of December, Of Such Is The Kingdom will be displayed at the invitational art exhibit to be held at the University of Utah. Prior to that time, it will be on display at the Z. C. M. I. Tea room. Mrs. Bailey feels that there is a pronounced need for artists to portray religious subjects; that religious subjects open the widest field to the present-day artist. The poem 'The Children of Jerusalem'' appearing on the back of the frontispiece is also the work of Mrs. Bailey. Blessed are the peacemakers; for they shall be called the children of God. ?Matthew 5:9. LARKIN MORTUARY LARKIN & SONS 260 East South Temple Salt Lake City 466 24th Street, Ogden Phone 4-9126 Telephone 821 LARKIN MORTUARY CO.