— Officers Meeting (Thursday, October 3, 1940) PRESIDENT'S REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Amy Brown Lyman and children as well, away from W this conference, the home and the desirability of building up and strengthening family life. Our theme, as the program indicates, is "The Latter-day Saint Home—a Foundation for Righteous Living." There are so many activities and attractions today that take women, home, that we feel that it might be a good plan to inaugurate a "back to the home" movement. We believe in the stability and solidarity of the family. We believe that homes everywhere would be benefited by members of families spending more time together in the family 754 circle. We believe that the home should come first with every Relief Society woman, and work outside the home should come second. Stake Conference Visits We are now in the midst of our annual stake Relief Society conferences. The schedule includes 43 two-stake conferences and 45 onestake conferences, reaching 131 of the 132 stakes—all except Oahu in Hawaii. This is the first time we have adopted a general plan for combining two stakes in one conference. It has been advisable to do this in order to compléte the work in the period assigned by the General Authorities. We hope you are liking the plan. We have already heard favorable reports regarding the stimulation that has come through contacts between two stakes participating in the same conference. We are advising that class leaders meet separately in a class leaders' union meeting simultaneously with the meeting for bishops and Relief Society officers. Part of the purpose of the bishops' meeting is lost if it is open to the public. No opportunity is given for a discussion of welfare problems, which should be limited to those workers who are directly concerned. We want you to know that we appreciate the kindness and courtesy you are extending to us; that we are enjoying our visits to your stakes and that they are a source of inspiration and motivation to us which cannot be measured. Your resourcefulness surprises and intrigues us; your courage bolsters' up our courage; your faith and devotion build up our faith; your spirituality strengthens our spirituality. I have noticed a new light in 

 

 the eyes of our new Board members after their first visit to you, which has brightened with each additional contact. 'There is a new enthusiasm which is stimulating their efforts. Project for Work-and-Business Meeting A new project is being organized to be carried on in the work-andbusiness meetings in the Salt Lake Welfare Region. This is an experiment which, if successful, may be extended to other regions. The chairman of our educational work, Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, has been trying to devise a plan which would tie up our regular work meeting with the Church welfare program, and this step has been taken as a beginning. Often in the past, we have been at a loss to know how to plan to keep ourselves profitably busy on work day, but now the welfare program is needing our help. Thus, with one regular Relief Society meeting day a month available, and with the whole ward membership in attendance, it would seem that much might be accomplished for the welfare program. It is not the intention to interfere in any way with the regional sewing centers which have been established, but to supplement their work by making a definite number of articles as assigned by the Region. The heavy work on power machines will continue to be done in the regional sewing center. The project has the hearty approval of the general and regional welfare committees. The plan is as follows: The Salt Lake Region will furnish all materials for the articles, the ward Relief Societies will furnish the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE séwing service, and the General Board will arrange for an expert to do the cutting on the large tables at the regional center. The cut articles will be segregated into bundles which will be delivered to the stakes of the Region, and by the stakes assigned to their respective wards. The finished articles will, with proper labels on them, and after expert inspection by ward and stake work leaders, be carefully packed and returned to the regional storehouse for distribution on bishops' orders. The charge to bishops drawing on this stock will be for material only. In this particular project, none of the articles will be held in the wards. The articles to be made are as follows: women's house dresses, children's dresses, men's flannel and broadcloth pajamas, children's flannel and broadcloth pajamas, women's flannel and seersucker nightgowns, and women's front aprons. The total number of articles made during the year will be 3,500. Each ward will be assigned approximately 24 articles. It will readily be seen that the amount of sewing sent to any one ward will not keep the entire ward membership busy. It will probably be done by one section of each work meeting. Other projects already planned will go on as usual. This plan is an indication of what may be accomplished in the future, especially if it is extended to other regions. It is in reality a direct return to the original idea of Relief Society work meetings. (At this point President Lyman demonstrated bundles of cut materials, containing everything needed to complete the respective articles, and the finished articles made from similar bundles.) 755 Grain-Storing You have all been vitally interested, I am sure, in the recent investment of a portion of the Relief Society wheat fund into wheat, which is now stored in Church elevators. When the Relief Society wheat was turned into cash at the close of the World War, it was done with the understanding and unanimous consent of the Relief Society that the fund would be held in trust at the Presiding Bishop's Office until such time as the General Authorities might deem it advisable to again store grain. That time has now come. It is thought expedient by the First Presidency to keep wheat stored and available as a part of the Church welfare plan. The Church has generously proffered to carry all the expense connected with the storing and proper care of the wheat. This is a comfort to Relief Society women, for it will be remembered by the older sisters that the care of the wheat in earlier days was a real task for them. For nearly twenty years interest on the wheat trust fund has been used for health and maternity work, and a great amount of good has been accomplished with it. With the conversion of a large portion of the fund into wheat, and with the teduction of interest rates on the remaining fund, the amount of the annual interest to be received by wards next July 1 will necessarily be much less than formerly. As was the case last July (see Relief Society Magazine, July, 1940, page 470), interest will be paid by check on all amounts of fifty cents or more, and amounts less than fifty cents will be mailed direct to the Relief Society presi- 756 dents in the form of postage stamps. The checks are drawn in favor of the ward Relief Societies which have ownership in the fund, but are mailed to the bishops for ward organizations, and to the stake presidents for stakes. All such payments, whether received in the form of checks or postage stamps, are to be entered in the Relief Society record books as interest received on the wheat trust fund. Charity Fund In view of our close cooperation with the ward bishops and with the Church welfare plan, and in order to avoid any duplication of effort, it is recommended that the use of the Relief Society charity fund be modified and extended as follows: 1. For Emergency Relief: 'There should always be available in every ward a reserve in the charity fund for emergency relief. A ward president may be called upon any day or night for help for a distressed individual or family, and she should be prepared to give temporary emergency relief until the matter can be taken up with the bishop. Her treasury should never be found empty. 2. For Health and ChildWelfare Purposes: With the conversion of a large portion of the wheat fund into wheat, resulting in a reduction of wheat interest for health work, presidents will no doubt welcome the idea of using some of their charity fund for health work and child welfare. ' 3. For Relief Society Welfare Projects:, In order to be able to initiate any definite Relief Society welfare project, ward presidencies may desire to use a portion of their charity fund for materials or equipment. In extending the use of this 

 

 fund for this purpose, however, it should be strictly understood that it is to be limited to such projects as are sponsored by the Society. Fast Offerings Relief Society women are encouraged to support the First Presidency in the following recommendations which they have made regarding fast donations: "Fast offerings must be received to an amount equalling $1.00 per each member per year. This is an amount within the reach of every head of a family and single person in the Church. Those who can give more should do so." Fast offerings are depended upon to provide the real foundation for the welfare plan. Women's Work Directors Need has arisen for clarification of the duties of women's work directors in the Church welfare plan in relation to the Relief Society. It is optional with the stake and wards as to whether their respective women's work directors are appointed to serve as Relief Society representatives. Stake women's work directors may ot may not be members of the stake board. It is recommended that, insofar as the Relief Society is concerned, the women's work directors are essentially employment representatives who assist unemployed ward members in finding employment, and who assist the Church welfare projects by referring to such projects women who can do the requited work. The two functions of finding employment and: of making family investigations in cases of need are separate and distinct, and ordinarily the employment representative, or work director, should not be RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE assigned both functions. The responsibility of visiting families in need of assistance, analyzing their problems, and making recommendations to the bishop as to assistance needed, rests with the ward Relief Society president. Deseret Industries The Deseret Industries, begun two years ago as a Church welfare project, has recently expanded its program, and has moved its plant and general offices to a much larger building. This project employs regularly about 60 members of the Church in the collection and salvaging of used clothing, furniture, and discarded -articles of all kinds. The re-worked articles are sold to the general public at a number of stores and are also available to stakes wishing to select articles for distribution in their own communities. (All Relief Society workers were invited to attend the official opening of the new plant, at 2234 Highland Drive, Salt Lake City, which occurred Friday, October 4, at 6 p. M.) Central Bishops' Storehouse (Relief Society workers and all conference visitors were also invited to visit the Bishops' Central Storehouse, 751 West 7th South Street, Salt Lake City, where the new grain elevators are being filled with Relief Society wheat. Guides wete in attendance during all hours of the day and evening to escort visitors through the buildings.) Mormon Handicraft The General Board appreciates the support being given to the Mormon Handicraft project. Many wards have taken membership in the Shop 757 for the benefit of their members who may wish to sell their work through the Shop, and as a means of assisting to continue this project. Individual memberships have also been taken by many interested women and by those who consign their handwork to the Shop for sale. The Shop has just experienced its most successful tourist season. It is advisable to consult the Shop as to articles found to be most saleable. Originality, good workmanship and good material are required if articles are to sell readily. Stake Board Meetings Persuant to advice from the General Authorities that we continue to simplify our work and reduce, so far as possible, the number of activities that take us from our wards and from our homes, the General Board recommends that stake board meetings be limited to two meetings a month— these to be held, of course, in addition to the union meeting. Several stakes who are focusing their attention on building up and strengthening the wards are trying out a plan of holding one board meeting a month and of advising board members to attend their own ward meetings as frequently as possible and to take an active part, as ward members, in the class work there. We believe that by limiting the number of members on stake boards to bare needs, and by limiting stake board meetings, the wards and the homes will be benefited. Class Work It was announced at the April Conference that in the future our educational year would begin uniformly throughout the organization in October 758. With all preliminary meetings and opening socials held in September, and with carefully made plans and preparation, class work can begin in earnest in October. Eight lessons will be considered in each department during the year, with the exception of the social service department, where a lesson in the course on "Education' for Family Life" is not scheduled for Christmas week, It is the hope of the General Board that no lessons will be omitted during the year, and that the full course of study will be given in every ward and branch throughout the organization. Primary Association to Meet on Wednesdays The General Board is pleased to announce that the Primary Association of the Church has decided to change its regular meeting day from Tuesday to Wednesday. Iam sure this change will be gratefully received by Relief Society workers everywhere. It has been very inconvenient for both the Relief Society and Primary to meet on the same afternoon, and in the same building. Ward Conferences Arrangements are no doubt under way for ward conferences to be held early in the season. Fall conferences give excellent opportunity to acquaint the public with the year's program. It is, of course, desirable that these conferences be held on Sunday evenings. Teachers' Visits The question has recently arisen regarding the advisability of visiting — teachers omitting one or more home visits during the summer months, by 

 

 way of a vacation for teachers. It is the desire of the General Board that all Latter-day Saint homes be visited monthly by the teachers during the entire year. Where desirable, however, it is suggested that each teacher might have one month free during the summer period, arrangements for which could be made by using substitute teachers, or by having teachers go singly for one or two months, as necessary. The regular visiting during the rest of the year should go on as usual with the teachers going in pairs. Latter-day Saint families are accustomed to monthly visits, and, besides, it is their opportunity for making their regular monthly charity contributions. With no topics required for the summer months, opportunity is afforded for more informal, friendly visits, and also for special messages from the officers. Ward teaching gives us a most effective method for maintaining unity and solidarity in our organization. Funds and Property at Reorganizations Where a reorganization of a stake takes place, the retiring officers should turn over to their successors, as soon as possible, all funds, record books, circular letters, text-books, and any other property owned by the Society. Although they will arrange to meet all organization expenses already incurred, it is advised that they do not proceed with any new plans or projects which would require the expenditure of Society funds. Stake Funds and the Budget Inasmuch as the Relief Society stake boards retain one-half of the annual dues as a general expense RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE fund, it is unnecessary for any provision to be made in the stake budget for the stake board of Relief Society. Membership Enlistment The membership campaign, or the enlistment work, will begin two weeks later this year, the period being from October 1 to December 31. The growth in membership is very gratifying. What a glorious thing it will be when every eligible mature woman in the Church will be enrolled! Magazine Campaign From September 15 to October 15, we shall be busy taking subscriptions for the Relief Society Magazine. Our August number this year gives details regarding this work. All stake and ward Magazine representatives have been supplied with the revised instructions for this work and with new forms and supplies. We appreciate your efforts in helping to build up the Magazine. Notes to the Field We call the attention of the stake and ward officers to the announcements and official instructions which appear frequently in the "Notes to the Field" department of the Relief Society Magazine. Members as well as officers will be interested in reading this section, which will help them to keep in touch with changes and developments in the Society's work. Blue Bulletins We call to your attention also the importance of reading carefully the blue bulletins which stake and mission presidents are receiving from time to time. They are sent out as need arises and contain important announcements and instruc- 759 tions which should be passed on to your local workers. Questions come to the office quite frequently which have already been answered in these bulletins. Reporting General Conferences We hope that you who are in attendance at conference will have the opportunity upon your return home to review for other stake and local workers the instructions received in our Relief Society sessions and also in the general conference of the Church. Those who are not able to attend are delighted to hear about the proceedings of the conference. Relief Society Centennial Plans are in the making for our centennial observance. They include celebrations in the stakes, and in the wards where desirable, on the 17th of March, 1942. The general celebration will be held in Salt Lake City in connection with our April, 1942, Relief Society conference. Visits to Missionaries in the Field We have been asked to call the attention of the mothers to the fact that visits to missionaries while they are in the field are detrimental to them and to the work, and that such visits are contrary to mission regulations. Missionaries themselves are instructed not to receive or entertain parents, relatives, or friends, without first securing the consent of their mission president. In the nearby missions, visits of relatives and friends have become so common as to be disrupting to missionary work. We feel sure you will bear this in mind, and that you will cooperate with the Priesthood in helping to overcome this practice. 760 Sacrament In the June issue of the Progress of the Church, the Presiding Bishopric stressed the importance of having the deacons who are engaged in passing the sacrament neatly and carefully dressed. We are passing this on to you, the mothers, who more than anyone else can control this matter. Attention is called to the fact that "no uniform style of dress is recommended for the sacrament service, but it is definitely urged that all who are called to administer or pass the sacrament should be neat and clean. It may be necessary at times for boys to wear clothing that is considerably worn, but every member can be neat and clean about both his clothing and his personal appearance. Carelessness in this respect may mar the sacrament service for the entire congregation." Clean-up Program It has been suggested by the Church Beautification committee that ward members clean up their home surroundings and do everything possible to beautify their communities. It is a sad thing that in our wonderful country there are ugliness, untidiness, and carelessness everywhere, all of which could be avoided if more interest were taken. There are unsightly billboards, tawdry stands, dirty streets, unpainted buildings and dumps. I am sure the campaign needs the stimulus of the women who have natural instincts for beauty, organization, and cleanliness. It is, therefore, hoped that all Relief Society members will encourage and support the Priesthood in their worthy efforts in this campaign. Following 

 

 are some of the tasks outlined: destruction of weeds, gathering and destruction of rubbish and waste, removal of dilapidated buildings, such as old pigpens, chicken coops, and barns too old for use, and the repairing of others which are still of use; also the repairing of fences, gates, and screens. Sale of Tobacco to Minors The Relief Society women will be interested in the drive against tobacco sale to minors, and will desire to support it. Although it is contrary to law, minors in many places may purchase cigarettes. It is the plan that all the stakes and wards will take part in a campaign to enforce the law and protect the next generation from becoming addicts to tobacco. Once started, especially in youth, the cigarette habit is most difficult to overcome. We all have a serious responsibility in protecting our youth against tobacco, and liquor as well. Organizations and Reorganizations in Stakes and Missions As a result of changes which have occurred during the six-month period since our last conference, April, 1940, we report to you the organization of stake boards of Relief Society in 4 new stakes, the reorganization of stake boards in 14 other stakes, and changes in the personnel of Relief Society mission presidents in 9 missions—resulting in a total of 27 new sets of stake or mission officers. In reporting these changes, we express our deep appreciation for the fine service rendered by the retiring officers, who will continue to be interested and helpful members of the Relief Society, and we welcome the newly appointed officers. ORGANIZATIONS Stake Formerly Part Of Appointed President Date Denver Western States Mission Erma A. Rice July 21, 1940 Emigration Ensign Stake Emeline Y. Nebeker March 10, 1940 Riverside Salt Lake Stake Sarah N. Twitchell April 28, 1940 Washington Eastern States Mission Louise C. Bennion June 30, 1940 REORGANIZATIONS Stake Released Appointed President Date Beaver Kate Jensen Lucy R. Nowers August 14, 1940 Boise Mabel S. Nokes Josephine G. Anderson May 12, 1940 Gunnison Clarice B. Larson Eva D. Childs June 30, 1940 Hyrum Laura L. Christensen Minnie A. Miller September 22, 1940 Kanab Vera L. Swapp Lillian C. McAllister March 31, 1940 Lyman Ellen Rolling Katherine Blackner June 16, 1940 Montpelier Romina Perkins Louisa Stephens September 15, 1940 Panguitch Sarah C. Ipson Sarah O. Henrie June 23, 1940 Portneuf Dicy W. Henderson Lera C. Maughan May 26, 1940 Salt Lake Elizabeth C. Williams Maude F. Hanks June 16, 1940 San Juan Hattie R. Barton Charity L. Rowley Sept. 9, 1940 South Davis Ella M. Williams Elizabeth H. Hogan August 18, 1940 Young L. Nettie Behrmann Bergetta A. Covington September 15, 1940 Mission Released Appointed President Date East Central States Jennie Tew Belle C. Jensen June 28, 1940 Eastern States Priscilla L. Evans Mary V. Iverson September 15, 1940 Japanese Hazel M. Robertson Eva B. Jensen July 3, 1940 North Central Sts. Mima M. Broadbent M. Richards July 27, 1940 Northwestern States Ann P. Nibley Florence G. Smith September 30, 1940 Samoan Ruth P. Tingey Hannahbel N. Emery April 20, 1940 Southern States Mary T. Clayson Mary H. Whitaker June 5, 1940 Spanish-American Martha W. Williams Isaymore June 14, 1940 Tahitian Emma H. Iona B. Stevens Edna L.