Representation and Attendance Members of the General Board, stationed at each of the three entrances to the Assembly Hall, greeted stake and mission officers and board members as they arrived for the three officers' meetings. The Relief Society women who remained in constant attendance at the doors throughout these same three sessions, and who also assisted with the registration of attendance and the distribution of printed programs, were members of the Wells Stake Relief Society Board. All members of the General Board were present at the conference except Rae B. Barker who was representing the Board at a series of Relief Society annual stake conferences in the East. The two newest members of the Board—Pauline T. Pingree and Alice B. Castleton—appointed since the April conference —both addressed the conference, as did those new Board members appointed at the beginning of the year, who did not appear as speakers at the April conference. The official representation of stakes was unusually extensive for an October conference. Of the 132 stakes, 123 sent delegates—all but Alberta and Lethbridge in Canada, Inglewood in California, Kanab in Southern Utah, New York and Washington in the East, St. Johns and St. Joseph in Arizona, and Oahu in Hawaii. In addition to stake representation, the president of the nearby California mission attended, and there were unofficial delegates, such as branch or district officers, from nine of the missions in the United States. Registered attendance at the officers' meetings held on Wednesday and devoted to the Society's lesson work numbered 700; at the officers' meeting, Thursday forenoon, the attendance was recorded to be nearly 900. Attendance at the general session in the Tabernacle on Thursday afternoon, which was open to all officers and members and the public, was approximately 6,000, with nearly every seat taken. It is significant to note that of the 500 official stake delegates in attendance at the officers' meetings, more than 350, or 70 per cent, were stake class leaders; whereas, 150, or 30 per cent, were executive or special officers. This distribution of representation was very gratifying in view of the fact that the October conference is devoted largely to the educational work of the Society. Several of the mission Relief Society presidents who had been released and returned home since the April conference were present, in- 

 —NOVEMBER, 1940

 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE cluding Mary T. Clayson of the Southern States Mission, Ann P. Nibley of the Northwestern States Mission, and Priscilla L. Evans of the Eastern States Mission, who offered the benediction at the close of the first, third and fourth sessions of the conference, respectively. Nellie C. DeGraff, president of the Wasatch Stake Relief Society, closed the second session of the conference with prayer. General officers of other auxiliaries and wives of the General Authorities of the Church also attended sessions of the Relief Society conference, including Mrs. Samuel O. Bennion, Mrs. LeGrand Richards, Mrs. Charles A. Callis, and Mrs. Reed Smoot, who, respectively, offered the invocation at the four sessions. The conference was especially honored by the attendance of the wives of the First Presidency, Mrs. Heber J. Grant, Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and Mrs. David O. McKay. Music at the Conference Lily Priestley rendered appropriate organ music during the half-hour preceding both the Wednesday and Thursday morning meetings in the Assembly Hall, and accompanied the congregational singing, which was directed by Beatrice F. Stevens, chairman of the General Board's music committee. Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle organist, played the organ prelude for the afternoon session in the Assembly Hall, and accompanied the two numbers, "Grant us Peace, O Lord," by Stephens, and "The Marvelous Work" from "The Creation" by Haydn, sung beautifully by the Temple Square Mission Choir under the 731 direction of H. Frederick Davis. Also appearing at the afternoon session in the Assembly Hall were Margaret Stewart Hewlett and her children. For their first number, Mrs. Hewlett was accompanist for her three daughters, Marlene, Marilyn and Margaret Ann, who rendered "In a Garden" by Miles as a vocal trio. Their second trio was "Liebestraum" by Liszt, with Mrs. Hewlett and her son Charles each playing the violin, and Margaret Ann, the piano. "Prayer" by Geon, was sung beautifully by Ruth Jensen Clawson, Ensign Stake Relief Society Chorister, at the Thursday morning officers' meeting, and her voice was heard again in solo with the chorus of Singing Mothers at the general session in the Tabernacle. The combined choruses of Singing Mothers, numbering approximately 300 singers, who appeared at this session were from Wells, Bonneville, Emigration-Ensign, Highland, and Cottonwood stakes, and were directed successively in five numbers by their respective stake directors, Josephine Brower, Olive N. Rich, Meryl T. Cardall, Permilla Bean, and Nellie N. Bennion. They were accompanied on the organ by Dr. Frank W. Asper, Tabernacle organist, and on the piano by their stake organists, Wilma Bunker, Rachel Dunn, Ruth Isakson, Ruth Stromness, and Iola Peterson. In response to a special invitation, these combined choruses of Singing Mothers also appeared at the first two sessions of the general conference of the Church, held in the Tabernacle on Thursday, October 4. Summarized Report of Proceedings FOLLOWING are condensed accounts of the talks presented by the speakers at the various sessions of the conference, arranged in the order of their appearance. Because of limited space, the entire report of the proceedings cannot appear in the November issue, but those addresses directly related to the educational work of the Society are included in this issue. Addresses of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Elder Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve, and General Board members Luella N. Adams, Anna B. Hart, Ethel B. Andrew, and Pauline T. Pingree will appear in later numbers of the Magazine. The programmed talk, "Accelerating Membership Activities," by Belle S. Spafford, was not given at the conference because of lack of time, but this subject will be further developed and presented at the general Relief Society conference in April, 1941; therefore, a summary of this talk will not appear in the proceedings of the October conference. Arrangements have been made whereby the full text of the address on "Teaching Methods" by Doctor A. C. Lambert, delivered in the opening session of the conference, may be obtained in mimeographed form upon request direct to Doctor A. C. Lambert, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. It is therefore unnecessary to print a condensed version of this address in the Magazine. At the close of the Literature Department meeting of the conference, a list of books and plays studied in Relief Society literature lessons during the period 1914-1941, and of authors considered during this period, was distributed to each stake literature class leader. Those stakes and missions who were not represented at the conference, and any other stakes who failed to obtain a copy, may obtain the list upon request to the office of the  , Utah.