[Vol57 | December | Magazine Page 961 | PDF Page 1004]

--- PAGE 961 (PDF page 1004) ---
December 1970

for the mother's well-being. An additional reaction from the individual who undervalues herself is to give a priority to others' expectations, even when these expectations are inappropriate. One husband, for example, told his wife she was completely responsible for the marital disharmony which resulted in their divorce. She had felt uncertain about her rights and privileges in the marriage and wondered if she had the right to challenge the unrighteous behavior of her husband. Because of her low self-esteem she had failed to use her right to set standards that her husband needed to modify his impulsive, pleasure-seeking, and irresponsible behavior.

Question for Discussion

How does active participation in Relief Society help a woman develop and maintain a balanced life?

PHYSICAL HEALTH

The Word of Wisdom, among other scriptures, indicates the importance and value of good physical health. The Latter-day Saint woman should be mindful of how she can best achieve good health without overemphasizing her health as the only goal of her life. Neglect of one's physical health is contrary to the doctrine of the Church. The human body is the tabernacle of the spirit, and, as such, should receive the best possible care, but some persons are inclined to overemphasize physical attributes to the exclusion of other important areas. The individual who is constantly in search of some "fountain of youth" is missing the opportunity to make more im-

portant and significant achievements.

Good physical health is a boon to personal growth and development, but the physical body is not to be overvalued to the exclusion of spiritual and mental growth or sound social responsibility.

Questions for Discussion

1. In what ways is a woman apt to overvalue physical health?
2. How is a wife and mother apt to undervalue her physical health?
3. How can a woman check herself to be certain she is not out of balance in her life?
4. What areas of life is the average woman most apt to neglect?
5. What different challenges exist for the married and the single woman in maintaining a balanced life?

SUMMARY

The busy day-to-day activities of the average Latter-day Saint woman can become so hectic that she may let some dimension of her life be neglected. Each of the life adjustment areas of religious and mental development, social responsibility, and physical health should have a place in the daily life experiences of every woman. To neglect or to overemphasize any one of these areas is to diminish one's chance to achieve joy in this life and salvation in the next. Poor judgment, a distorted, inadequate, or inaccurate view of life and the Lord's program can result in inappropriate emphasis on one of life's dimensions to the exclusion of others. The Latter-day Saint woman is most apt to achieve genuine joy in this life when she keeps her life balanced and productive in all important areas.

946