[Vol57 | August | Magazine Page 639 | PDF Page 666]

--- PAGE 639 (PDF page 666) ---
August 1970

Discussion Questions

1. Who decides the fashion of the day?
2. Do we permit the fashion of the moment to have more influence over us than the standards of dress approved by our leaders?

CONCLUSION

You are well dressed when your clothes are suitable to your age, the occasion, your position in life, your particular personality, figure, and personal coloring, but most of all to the standards of modesty set forth by the prophets.

If you are truly well dressed, people will pay more attention to your personality than to your person.

Remember that as a representative of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, you have been counseled to be "in the world, but not of the world." (See John 17:14-16.)

When you dress according to these standards, you will not only merit the pride, respect, and admiration of your husband but also of your children and friends.

SOCIAL RELATIONS—Living Morally in a Changing World

Lesson 2—God's Morality vs. Satan's Morality

Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, November 1970
Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, April 1971

OBJECTIVE: To help Latter-day Saint women become more aware of the presence and power of Satan in the modern world by giving guidelines and methods for distinguishing between God's morality and Satan's morality.

INTRODUCTION

For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so, my first-born in the wilderness, righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad. . . . (2 Ne. 2:11.)

It is abundantly clear from the scriptures and from the writings and sermons of our Latter-day prophets that Satan is a real personage of spirit, that he and his followers are upon the earth, and that Satan's purpose is to thwart God's work by bringing the souls of men to destruction.

It is also clear that this opposing influence is permitted to move among men to provide the quality of opposition which makes it necessary for us to struggle with ourselves. Through this struggle, we build the kind of strength essential within those of us who would ultimately hope to exercise the powers of creation with the attendant responsibilities.

Brigham Young expanded upon Lehi's words, which are quoted above, when he said that "Sin is co-eternal with righteousness, for it must needs be that there is an opposition in all

628