[Vol57 | December | Magazine Page 963 | PDF Page 1006]

--- PAGE 963 (PDF page 1006) ---
December 1970

writings and philosophy are beautifully harmonious with the ideals and doctrines of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

The following introduction to Wordsworth is reprinted from volume 1, Out of the Best Books, pp. 53-54:

Occasionally in the world of literature there is a writer so gifted and so wise that he seems to speak with a voice of divine authority. Such a writer was William Wordsworth . . . who, a century and a half ago, created poems of such simple beauty and such enduring truth that their appeal and greatness seem forever assured. If we Latter-day Saints take seriously the Lord's commandment to seek words of wisdom out of the best books [D&C 88:118; 109:14], we will do well to study the poems of Wordsworth, for in all literature there are few other first-quality poets who shaped so many religious and ethical truths into works of art. Coleridge says Wordsworth was "friend of the wise and teacher of the good," who, in Matthew Arnold's words, came to a world of "doubts, disputes, distractions, fears" and brought stability through the "healing power" of his poetry.

. . . judged by his best work . . . Wordsworth achieves distinction among the world's greatest poets. As Russell Noyes says, "Wordsworth was the most truly original genius of his age and exerted a power over the poetic destinies of his century unequaled by any of his contemporaries." More than any other poet he stands as the great shaper of the whole romantic movement in western world literature and probably, all things considered, must be recognized as the greatest English poet between Milton and Browning. In an age of great poets, Wordsworth stands highest of all. His poems are not so chillingly mystic as Blake's, nor so hauntingly musical as Coleridge's, nor so soaringly lyrical as Shelley's, nor so exuberantly variable as Byron's, nor so enchantingly euphonic as Keats', nor so stingingly satirical as Burns'—yet he is greater than all these, for more than any of them he spoke enduring truths in words of beauty, and that is the essence of great poetry. . . .

948

From Wordsworth more than from any other poet we learn, as Ernest Bernbaum says, "the beauty and happiness of plain living and high thinking."

SELECTIONS BY WORDSWORTH

Since these introductory comments on Wordsworth, we have printed the following selections by Wordsworth in volumes 1 to 4 of Out of the Best Books:

"Ode: Intimations of Immortality" (vol. 1, pp. 55-63)

Excerpts from The Prelude (vol. 1, pp. 64-66 and vol. 2, pp. 360-64)

"Character of the Happy Warrior" (vol. 1, pp. 67-70)

"The World Is Too Much With Us" (vol. 1, pp. 229-30)

"Michael" (vol. 1, pp. 405-19)

"We Are Seven" (vol. 1, pp. 469-72)

"My Heart Leaps Up" (vol. 2, pp. 360-64)

"I Wandered Lonely As a Cloud" (vol. 3, pp. 4-7)

"She Was a Phantom of Delight" (vol. 3, pp. 229-30)

"Composed upon Westminster Bridge" (vol. 4, p. 169)

(Note: Volume 5 contains no Wordsworth poems.)

"THE WORLD IS TOO MUCH WITH US"

We reprint here several of Wordsworth's short poems and brief discussions on them. First, the sonnet "The World Is Too Much With Us":

The world is too much with us; late and soon,
Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers;
Little we see in nature that is ours;
We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon!
The sea that bares her bosom to the moon;
The winds that will be howling at all hours,
And are up-gathered now like sleeping flowers;
For this, for everything, we are out of tune;