[Vol57 | April | Magazine Page 296 | PDF Page 308]

--- PAGE 296 (PDF page 308) ---
April 1970

time, but this isn't the end, just a change for awhile. Mother, that is what Daddy said to me just before he died."

A week later Susan received a cable: "My work done. Elaina doesn't need me any longer. Please meet plane 1.55 P.M. your time tomorrow. Love Christy."

The six months agreed upon had stretched into fifteen!

Christy had seen Don every night but no plans were mentioned. Last night when Christy came in to say goodnight she held out a bare left hand.

"I gave the ring back to Don," she said. "But do you mind if we don't talk about it right now?"

Susan blinked back tears as she kissed her daughter. She knew Christy would talk about it when she was ready.

* * *

"Grandma, are you sleeping?" Susan opened her eyes to see her little granddaughter looking up into her face. She was surprised to see that the chapel was nearly filled.

"No, dear. I'm not sleeping."

"Then why were your eyes shut?"

"I was thinking, Julie," she answered softly.

With an effort she brought her thoughts back to the present and soon Christy stood before them all.

"I want to tell you a story," she said.

"One day, soon after I arrived in Rome, I went sightseeing. I rented a little car and managed to get myself hopelessly lost in all the twists and turns in that great city. When I finally did get back I found I had locked the key inside the apartment when I left that morning. It was dark and I was tired and discouraged. As I stood there on the doorstep a young woman asked if I was in trouble and if she could help me. Her English was broken, but we could understand each other. I explained my predicament and she said, 'You wait. I come soon.' In a few minutes she was back with a key and opened the door for me."

So that is how she met Elaina, Susan mused.

"I thanked her, grateful to go inside and rest," Christy continued. "I was lucky that someone else had a key."

"Latter-day Saints are seeking admission into the home of our Heavenly Father. Keys are made available to each of us, but sometimes we get lost along the road leading to exaltation. In Rome I had to fight a strange city that seemed to have no traffic laws, an unfamiliar language, and twists and turns that seemed to take me nowhere. As Latter-day Saints we fight temptation, sin, and weakness all our lives. If we do get off the straight and narrow road it is possible to get back onto it. But what happens if, when we finally stand on the doorstep of our Heavenly Father's house, we find we have no key? No one else can open that door for us. We must have our own key."

Christy's voice quivered in earnestness. She leaned over the podium in an effort to get as close as possible to the congregation.

"The first principles of the gospel, faith, repentance, baptism, and the laying on of hands by those in authority," she con-

286