[Vol57 | December | Magazine Page 957 | PDF Page 1000]

--- PAGE 957 (PDF page 1000) ---
December 1970

Class Discussion

What is the relationship of permissiveness (where it is excessive) with the very young child to the willful uncontrolled acts of those same children in adolescence?

FOR HOME-DOING

Accept as a challenge for yourself some act of self-denial or self-discipline in an effort toward self-improvement.

SOCIAL RELATIONS

Living Morally in a Changing World

Lesson 8—That We Might Have Joy

Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, May 1971
Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, October 1971

OBJECTIVE: "Men are, that they might have joy" (2 Ne. 2:25), and this lesson is designed to help the Latter-day Saint woman achieve more joy through a healthy balance of the religious, mental, social, and physical dimensions of her life.

Father Lehi explained certain dimensions of the gospel to his son Jacob, as recorded in the second chapter of 2 Nephi. A statement by Lehi summarizes the purpose of life and Adam's responsibility in the eternal scheme: "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy." (2 Ne. 2:25. See also 2 Ne. 9:10; 2 Ne. 27:30; D&C 6:31; 18:15; 42:61.) In the Old and New Testament (Neh. 8:10; Job 38:7; John 16:22) the term "joy" is used to identify a desirable state of being and a suitable goal for man. It is also used to indicate one of man's ultimate achievements. Joy is associated with exaltation in the kingdom of the Father, and the term appears to be synonymous with the achievement of inner and outer harmony with God and his purposes.

The lessons for this year recognize the need for the Latter-day Saint woman to understand the current life problems of herself and her family that she may discover how to achieve the balance that makes it possible to be "in the world but not of the world." While extended communications media are available to hasten the Lord's work, they are also available to the forces of Satan. Satan has, in effect, been invited to live among us. He can come to us via radio, television, motion pictures, theater, publications, and the public platform. Satan's bid for our time, our energies, our thoughts, and our very souls is relentless and skillful. We must qualify ourselves to acknowledge the Lord and his program and avoid Satan's enticings.

The person who has balanced his life patterns has learned to use good judgment, and by virtue of having good judgment, is not apt to submit to Satan's tempta-

942