[Vol57 | September | Magazine Page 720 | PDF Page 750]

--- PAGE 720 (PDF page 750) ---
September 1970

heights of godhood by obedience to the laws of progression.

We may also recognize that from the other side of the veil we have brought gifts and talents to be developed, acted upon, and used for the betterment of ourselves, our associates, and to advance the kingdom of God.

The truth is that our life here is purposeful; we are here not by chance but by design; consequently, we have a mission, foreordained, to become eternal mothers and eternal fathers, but only on condition that we accept our responsibilities in this life as God has revealed them. The children born to us here are precious sons and daughters of God, lent to us that they might be strengthened in true principles to receive

the opportunity to return home, having fulfilled the purpose of their creation.

As to the world at large, we may understand, in part, how God governs this world through sending spirits of varying grades of capability to earth in time and in place. We are able to understand wherein God is just because the differences we find among men in this world were, by and large, differences which existed in the premortal life. Man, as a free agent, may choose the path of degradation or exaltation, but God has given him an opportunity to prove himself amid conditions which may be anticipated, for he elected to come to this earth-life. (Joseph F. Smith, JD, 25:57.)

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths to Live By
(Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71)

Message 3—Peacemakers

Northern Hemisphere: First Week, December 1970
Southern Hemisphere: First Week, May 1971

OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that peace is a goal of the daughters of God.

"Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other." (Ps. 85:10.)

The Swiss saints did not fight in World War II, but they well understood that part of the peace was binding up the wounds left from that great carnage.

The members of the Church in Austria lived far from the seaports into which came the mercy ships from Church members in the United States. The railroads, airfields, and roads had been bombed almost to shambles by the allies. Little aid trickled in. Hunger and illness

708