[Vol57 | August | Magazine Page 589 | PDF Page 616]

--- PAGE 589 (PDF page 616) ---
Editorial / The Mother and the Missionary

■ One of the great contributions the women of the Church can make to the building of the kingdom of God on earth is to prepare their children to be missionaries. Knowing as we do that we are living in the Saturday evening of time, that the second coming of Christ is imminent, that the gospel must be taken to every kindred, tongue, and people, and that the members of the Church must do the Lord's work in this respect, it is apparent that there must be a great corps of young people ready to do their part of the work.

A mother readies her children for their calls to be missionaries by creating in them the desire to go on a mission and fostering that desire throughout their growing-up years. She starts very early in their lives to implant the idea of making themselves ready. It is necessary to instill in them a willingness to serve since "the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind" (D&C 64:34) of those who serve him. An unwilling or slothful servant is not profitable to the work. The attitude toward a mission call as one of the important opportunities afforded to Latter-day Saints is usually the result of the parents' careful nurture and training.

A mother prepares her children to be missionaries in two important ways, as she guides their growth and education in spiritual and religious matters, and as she trains them in the practical, temporal aspects of their lives.

The spiritual training begins from the moment of birth as the child feels the security of the love his parents have for him and as he is taught to understand the great love his Heavenly Father has for him. Children learn to pray as the family gathers in prayer and with his first attempts to speak, mother teaches him to pray. Early and continuous involvement in Church activities, after attendance at sacrament meetings, participation in Church auxiliary programs give him a foundation of understanding. A wise mother encourages attendance at Seminaries and Institutes of Religion to give him a rich store of knowledge. He should take advantage of opportunities to receive the benefit of counsel and hearing the stirring testimonies of returned missionaries. Habits of study should be well established.

[LOGO: Relief Society circular logo with "RS" and "1842"]

Volume 57  August 1970  Number 8

THE GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford, President
Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
Mayola R. Miltenberger, Secretary-Treasurer

578