[Vol57 | April | Magazine Page 320 | PDF Page 332]

--- PAGE 320 (PDF page 332) ---
April 1970

Pomona Stake (California) Sponsors Quilting
Demonstrations at County Fair
September 12-27, 1969

Left to right: Nora Perdue and Atha Abel, of Ontario Second Ward, which provided quilters for this year's demonstration.
Marie Thompson, President, Pomona Stake Relief Society, reports: "For the past three years Pomona Stake has had the privilege of sponsoring a quilting demonstration at the Los Angeles County Fair, said to be the largest county fair in the world. "Under direction of quilting chairman Lenna Jacobs, the sisters quilted from ten A.M. to four P.M. The sisters answered many questions about quilting and told about Relief Society. Five lovely baby quilts were completed.
"We feel that this is a very worthwhile project, and a useful missionary tool. We are gratified by the great response given by the sisters in the wards, and they benefit by having the quilts for use at bazaars."

Richland Stake (Washington), Kennewick Second Ward
Presents Bazaar, November 18, 1969

Left to right: Mary Craven; Erolene Reed; Patty Clifford.
Evelyn N. Binns, President, Richland Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Kennewick Second Ward in our stake presented an outstanding bazaar. The theme for the event was 'Under the Big Top.' The sisters showed great imagination and talent in decorating the hall with circus animals. The center booth for baked goods and candy gave the effect of a big top in bright yellow and orange. All of the booths were decorated to represent a circus wagon." Evah Brown is president of Kennewick Second Ward Relief Society.

Whittier Stake (California) Conducts Campaign
For Greater Relief Society Attendance
October 1969

Relief Society presidents of wards in Whittier Stake, front row, left to right: Betty Snelson, Seventh Ward; Donna Barnes, Sixth Ward; Bertha Smith, Fourth Ward; Arch J. Haskins, Stake President; Betty Jensen, Third Ward; Rae Miller, Second Ward; Leona Tobias, Fifth Ward.
Bishops of the wards, back row, left to right: Paul J. Parish, First Ward; Marvin E. Jacobson, Third Ward; Merril J. Ostler, Seventh Ward; Jack McKeon, Second Ward; Ray A. Sparks, Sixth Ward; Albert Dooley, Fifth Ward; Kenneth Minnis, Fourth Ward.
Verena B. Easton, President, Whittier Stake Relief Society, reports: "Attendance at Relief Society meetings throughout the Stake improved greatly since a campaign drive in October through the joint efforts of the Relief Society and priesthood leaders in the stake and wards.
"Novel 'Don't Miss It' buttons were worn, and the campaign helped to account many sisters and priesthood bearers with the Relief Society program."

310