[Vol57 | February | Magazine Page 118 | PDF Page 123]

--- PAGE 118 (PDF page 123) ---
■ Relief Society Magazine representatives continued during 1969 to maintain the high subscription rate. The long term Spanish number of subscriptions has reached 281,790, with the Spanish number increasing to 6,839, making a grand total of the number of subscriptions of The Relief Society Magazine of 288,629 as of August 1, 1969.

At the last Relief Society Annual General Conference in a meeting with sisters from oversees speaking different languages, the most frequently expressed request was that The Relief Society Magazine could be translated into their own languages, as it was in the Spanish. It is regretted that the limited number of members in the different language groups makes it financially impossible at this time.

There are 238 stakes on the Honor Roll, which made 100 per cent and sixty-eight stakes in which all wards exceeded 100 per cent with the highest percentage in 1969 is Sydney Stake, Australia. Congratulations go to

these sisters who have made the high record of 1966% There are 429 stakes on the Honor Roll in 1969, which is an increase of eleven over last year. The missions are to be congratulated on having twenty-one missions on the Honor Roll.

The Honor Roll Board is always endeavoring to improve the stake and ward improvement paper being used throughout the past year to better the paper being used throughout the color section. The colors reproduce brighter, and the color section is better and make for more attractive reproductions.

The Magazine is aptly fulfilling the plans of the founders as it provides a means whereby the writing talents of Latter-day Saint women can be printed and preserved through the pages of the Magazine there comes a closeness of the spirit among sisters throughout the Church. Many members today living in different lands are learning to read English. They also receive enlightenment from the pictures which carry a universal language, so that English copies which go to foreign-speaking Relief Society sisters are being utilized.

May the blessings of the Lord attend the devoted Magazine representatives, who carry out their callings so faithfully, and the presidencies under whose direction the work progresses.

[CIRCULAR STAMP/SEAL: 1969 Magazine Honor Roll Counselor Marianne C. Sharp]

118