[Vol57 | October | Magazine Page 742 | PDF Page 778]

--- PAGE 742 (PDF page 778) ---
Relief Society song contest

General Announcement

The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the third contest for Latter-day Saint women in song writing (lyrics and music) to be conducted annually. The purpose of the contest is to encourage creativity in this form of art excellence in the general field of music among the women of the Church.

The General Board will be happy to receive entries following this announcement until the closing date of the contest (see below).

Name of Contest

The contest is known as THE RELIEF SOCIETY SONG CONTEST.

Dates

This year's contest (1970-71) opens with this announcement and closes March 1, 1971. All entries must be postmarked before midnight, March 1, 1971.

Prizes

Prizes will be awarded as follows:
    First prize:    $100
    Second prize: $ 75

If two individuals collaborate on the words and the music, the prize will be awarded as follows: Sixty percent to the composer and forty percent to the author.

If the services of an arranger are used, the composer may wish to give credit to her by listing the name. The division of any money award with the arranger will be left to the option of the composer.

Decision of the judges will be final. Winners will be notified by the General Board.

The General Board reserves the right to withhold the awarding of prizes if no compositions of sufficient merit are submitted.

Rules

1. The contest will be open to all Latter-day Saint women, except members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board.

2. Each contestant may submit one composition only. Duplicate copies of all submissions should be retained by the contestants to insure against loss.

3. The composition is to be submitted in a sealed envelope. No explanatory or pictorial supplementary material should accompany the composition and the sheet(s) upon which the song is written should have no identifying marks upon it (them). Address to:

SONG CONTEST
Relief Society Building
76 North Main Street
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

732