[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | January | Issue: 10 | Title: EMILY H. WOODMANSEE. | Author: Unknown]

		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.

A loyal friend, most worthy of respect;
	A faithful wife, a mother true and fond,
A gentle women, one of God’s “Elect”—
	Has left us for the bright and blest “Beyond.”
No more on earth, we’ll see her genial face—
	The index of her soul’s unconscious grace.
Her’s was the charm of friendly earnestness,
	Above formality, or proud display;
Her ready hand, full oft relieved distress—
	But never in an ostentatious way;
Sweet sympathy, and modest worth combined—
To form a nature lovable and kind.
Fate, fitted her with qualities to share—
	A pleasant home, with all “the Boon” implies,
Whose generous tone, reveals the father’s care,
	The children’s tasks, the mother’s forethought,
	wise,
Alas! where mutual love held gentle sway,


The household Queen is sadly missed today.

’Tis well, 'tis well when true companions go,
	If ne’er we grieved them, with intent unkind,
'Tis well, when, howsoever deep our woe,
	No stinging self-reproach distracts our mind,
’Tis well, when keen remorse, is out of place,
	So happily as in this special case.

Our friend received and loved the Gospel light,
	And prized the comfort that it truly brings,
Her spirit was refreshed e’en day and night
	With ‘‘living water” from celestial springs.
Her hope was like an anchor strong and sure 
Grounded on truth! eternal and secure.

Faith! was her friend, when sickness lingered
		near,
	And left its impress on her features pale;
Consoling faith! still whispered words of cheer
	And led her safely through the shadowy vale.
Sustained her through the spectre-haunted night,
That ushers in the dawn of “Endless Light!”

We would not selfishly recall her, yet
	Fond hearts are thrilled with human grief and
		pain,
Fond hearts are full of unexpressed regret— 
	Of old time friends, so very few remain,
Lo! one by one, they’re wafted from our view,
With hardly time to breathe a last adieu.

How can we fail to note, with sore dismay,
	The broken ranks of those we lov’d in youth?
Whose constancy is like a sunny ray,
	Who know us as we know ourselves forsooth.
Who while they sense our failings,not a few,
Most kindly recognize our virtues too.

Many await us on the “Distant shore”
	Who’ll gladly greet us, when life’s tasks are
		done,
Oh! happy day, that sees our conflict o’er;
	The battle fought, the victory fairly won;
Heaven grant us strength, sufficient for the fight,
	’Till with the loved ones gone we reunite.

	Salt Lake City Dec. 1893.


