DEAR EXPONENT:

	Not wishing to be entirely forgotten by
our friends I send you a communication
from this secluded portion of our MOUN-
TAIN HOME. Could you see our beautiful
valley clad in snow from mountain to river,
you might imagine yourself at the North
Pole, with no sign of Spring. Some time
since we were favored with a visit from
some of the leading brethren in the church.
They held several meetings which were
well attended and a good spirit prevailed,
for while they sharply reproved us for our
sins, they left us not without the hope and
consolation of the Gospel; but like faithful
servants of their Divine Master, opened the
door whereby we could, through obedience

to the ordinance of baptism, renew our cove-
nants; and start anew to serve the Lord.
 I believe the Sisters are doing all they
can to carry out the counsel of our Bishop,
and forward the work of reformation in
this place. Financially, we cannot boast of
our circumstances, still we do all in our pow-
er to help the poor and needy, visit the sick,
and comfort those who mourn; having faith
in the words of our Savior "Inasmuch as ye
have done it unto one of the least of these
my brethren, ye have done it unto me." I
can truly say we enjoy the spirit of the
Lord in our meetings.
	We have a Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Association, with the following
officers:
	Miss Celestia Young, President,
	"	Mary Williams,
	"	Ursula Pack,			Counselors.
	We have also established a class for the
instruction of little girls in some of the
branches of HOME INDUSTRY.
	The Ladies of the Relief Society gave a
ball on the 27th of Feb., the hall was beau-
tifully decorated for the occasion. Dan-
cing commenced at 2 o'clock p. m., and clos-
ing at 10; we have had no round dancing
this winter.
                                 PHEBE YOUNG.
                                      Assist. Sec'y.

                                BLOOMINGTON, March 6th, 1876
 EDITOR EXPONENT:
 I have been thinking for some time of
contributing a few lines to your valuable pa-
per in behalf of our Relief Society, which
is in a flourishing condition. I can truly
say our Associations have united us togeth-
er; althouth we have not much means we
are rich in spirit, blest with health, kind
hearts and willing hands, that are ready to
help build up the Kingdom of God. We
received a visit from Sister Horne whose
valuable instructions have sunk deep into
our hearts, and for whom we shall ever
pray. We read your valuable paper with
interest and cherish its encouraging coun-
sels. Sister Horne organized a Young La-
dies Retrenchment Association, which we
hope will begin a new era in the lives of
the young people. To asssist in rolling on
the Kingdom of God is the desire of their
hearts.	
	Yours Respectfully,
					Anne Nelson, Sec'y.

				SALEM, March 8th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have been thinking for some time that
I would send you a report of the organiza-
tion of our Retrenchment Association in
Salem, but not being accustomed to writ-
ing letters of this kind, I have neglected it
until now. There are but a few young la-
dies in this place, consequently our society
is composed mostly of small girls, but they
attend meetings very faithfully and take
great pride in selecting good pieces from
the best books and papers, and a good spirit
prevails generally; I never enjoy myself
better than when I attend these meetings.
I think it is a great privilege the young sis-
ters have to improve the talents the Lord
has given them in this way. If we could
only realize the work we have to perform
and the short time we have to do it in,
I think we would be more ready and will-
ing to respond to the calls that are made of
us from time to time. We have an excel-
lent presidency, who are doing all they can
for the advancement of the young. We
have resolved to carry out the counsel of
President Young in regard to dancing.

Our society was organized July 17th, 1875,
with the following named officers:
	Mrs. Martha Curtis, President,
	"	Josephine Higgins,
	"	Sarah D. Curtis,		Counselors.
	Miss Almira Jackman, Secretary,
	Mrs. Delia Hanchett, Treasurer.

	May God bless the EXPONENT and all
those who are interested in its welfare is
the earnest desire of your sister in the Gos-
pel of Christ.
				ALMIRA JACKSON,
						Secretary.
		MALAD CITY, UNEIDA CO., IDAHO.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Thinking that a few lines from this part
of the Lord's vineyard would be interest-
ing to the numerous readers of the EXPO-
NENT, I avail myself of the opportunity.
	The Relief Society held their annual
meeting at this place, Feb. 28th, which was
well attended. Appropriate speeches were
delivered by the president Mrs. Jane Price
and her Counselors, Mrs. Ann Daniels,
Esther Lusk and others. The Secretary,
Mrs. Esther Goodliffe read a report of the
condition of the Society, showing a balance
of $168 in cash in the Treasury box, not-
withstanding the many acts of charity ex-
tended to the needy during the year end-
ing Feb. 28th, Mrs. Martha Jones, Treasurer.
The officers of the Society were unani-
mously re-elected for the next year. The
plans for future operations were discussed
in a business manner, each member giving
her views to the best of her ability. There
is more interest taken in becoming self-sus-
taining than was ever known in this settle-
ment. At the present date the Society
numbers 120 members and the number
keeps increasing at each meeting.
 Great praise and credit are due to the
ladies of Malad, progression is their motto.
I wish to say further that under the super-
intendence of our venerable and worthy
Bishop Daniels, in the mercantile and oth-
er departments of co-operation we continue
to grow in wealth and strength; and though
our homes are not palaces, we enjoy peace
and plenty.
 The health of the people is very good,
and their circumstances cheerful, with
plenty of time these winter months for
mental culture, recreation and social enjoy-
ment.
 The Sunday School is in a flourishing
condition under the supervision of Edward
Roberts and James Harrison. Credit is due
Mr. George Stuart General Superintendent
of all the Sunday Schools in this valley,
for his untiring efforts to supply the schools
with books, presents &c.
	We have two well-attended day schools
in Malad City. The cause of education is
in the ascendency here. Our future prospects
are cheerful to all those who have at heart
the culture and welfare of the rising gener-
ation.
	We avail ourselves of every possible
means within our reach to improve our-
selves, taking in consideration the circum-
stances which surround us, and I believe
rank favorably with the rest of mankind in
intelligence and education, and are gaining
a knowledge of our most holy religion.
	Success to the Exponent and all its pat-
rons. Adieu. 
