OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.

	I had given you up, and had ceased to
enquire of my aunt if anything appeared in
her last paper from "my old maid;" when,
this evening the EXPONENT containing
your remarkable description of yourself,
and synopsis of your life was spread before
me.
	To meet you fairly, I suppose I should re-
ciprocate, and give you some details con-
cerning myself. But I am not good at
drawing burlesques, in which I see you are
calculated to excel. So I hope you will ex-
cuse me on this point. But I shall be happy
to correspond with you, on any subject
which I may be able to treat with some de-
gree of satisfaction.
	What is your favorite pursuit? Do you
like music, painting and poetry? What do
you think of history, philosophy, or relig-
ion? Do you pay  attention to politics?
Can I please you by writing and encourag-
ing you to write upon either of the subjects
mentioned, or any other? You may be
sure I have a desire to interest you, and
will endeavor to do my best in discussing
whatever you may choose to name. I shall
prefer to be somewhat in earnest however,
even if you continue to write in fun.
	Do you dislike to write or talk seriously?
I hope you prefer doing so sometimes, for
although

		"A little nonsense now and then
		Is relished by the wisest men"—
		Yet sober thought is requisite
			High morals to create,
		And TRUTH alone, e'en wits must own,
			Is noble, good and great.

	I certainly should feel highly compli-
mented, in that you do me the honor to be-
lieve me a woman, since you place so low
an estimate on man and consider woman so
much in the ascendency. I have the pleas-
ure of the acquaintance—and I trust the
friendship—of several intelligent and well


informed young ladies who would very de-
cidedly differ with you on these points.
But if I am to retain your friendship, so
graciously offered, by allowing myself to be
believed a woman, and not otherwise, I
cordially submit, and can assure you, you
are at perfect liberty to address me as sister
instead of brother, if it better suits your
delicate fancy. For my own part I cannot
discover so grave a difference between the
general characters of men and those of wo-
men, as some people seem capable of doing.
If I am myself a man, my nearest natural
relative—my mother—was a woman, and if
I am a woman, a man must have been my
father after all.
	If the editors of WOMAN'S EXPONENT
allow all this a place in their columns, I
trust you will not discard me altogether,
but will have the goodness to write again.
				Respectfully,
							HAL.
				[handwritten signature]


