LETTER FROM MRS. M. I. HORNE.

		PARIS, BEAR LAKE, March 2nd, 1876
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As you requested a communication from me
during my visit to this Northern country, I
have tried to get time to write, but have not
succeeded until to-day. I left Salt Lake on
the 19th of Jan. by the seven o'clock train.
When we arrived in Ogden, I was through
the kindness of Bro Z. Jacobs conducted to
the U. P. train. During my ride to Evanston
I conversed with some of the passengers.
Thinking a part of our conversation might be
interesting to some of your readers, I will give
you a few items. Among the passengers was
a Southern lady whose husband was an inva-
lid; they were traveling from Califor[-]ia to
Louisana to spend the winter. When she
found I was from Salt Lake she asked me a 
number of questions about our people, and our
facilities for education. I told her they were
very good, and our children would compare
favorably with the children of other commu-
nities. We talked at some length on our re-
ligious beliefs, especially polygamy. I told her
it was a principle of our faith given to us by
divine revelation from God, and we accepted


[Column 1]
it and was willing to live by it, knowing that
it was given for the salvation, redemption and
elevation of the human family. "Well," said
she, "I would [-]ot submit to that upon any
consideration." We also conversed upon the
Scriptures, and the doctrines of Christ and His
Apostles. I told her that we believe in the
same doctrines, quoting scripture to prove my
assertion. "Well," said she, "the more we
search into these things, the greater the mys-
tery." I said it was no mystery to those that
had the same spirit by which they were writ-
ten, for holy men of old spake as they were
moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and we could
not get that spirit only by complying with the
requirements of the Gospel which I had been
explaining to her. The Savior said "he thatdid not come in at the door, but climbed up
some other way was a thief and a robber."
I bore a faithful testimony to her of the truth
of Mormonism. Said I, if we should meet be-
hind the vail, you may remember the testimo-
ny I have borne you this day. She only
smiled. But remarked she would like to visit
Salt Lake on her return. A Catholic Priest
hearing her said, "you would see a fine city
Madame, and a very industrious people; much
credit is due them for what they have accom-
plished in so short a time. I do not hold with
their religious tenets, I am a Catholic Father,
I do dot know what your profession is. I went
to Salt Lake eleven years ago, with as much
prejudice as any one, thinking that the people
were mainly honest, but that their leaders were
impostors and deceivers. After living with
them I have come to the conclusion that they
are as sincere in their religious belief as any of
the ministers of the Gospel, and should have
the same protection and privileges as any oth-
er people. "Why," said he, "the idea that
we Gentile Ministers (as they call us) thinking
we have only to take our doctrines there and
preach, to convert them. why they have some-
thing so far superior to anything we can take
them, we can make no impression on them
whatever." And yet, I remarked we are call-
ed an ignorant people. He came to me and
asked me if I was a Mormon. I said I was, he
sat down beside me and asked if I had any ob-
jections to his asking me a few questions; I
told him I would be pleased to answer any
questions he wished to ask. He said please ex-
cuse me, but if a man has two or three wives
are they as virtuous and true to him as if he
had only one? I answered, just as sacredly so
—as we are all bound by the same covenant. I
told him we believe it the privilege of every
woman to become an honorable wife and moth-
er; as woman's mission on the earth was to
bear the souls of men. The Lord said in the
beginning "go forth and multiply and replen-
ish the earth;" I said, you know sir, there are
thousands of men that are killed in battle, that
never marry; consequently there is a surplus
of women on the earth. The Lord revealed
the law of celestial MARRIAGE to elevate wo-
man to an honorable position, and bind us to-
gether for time and all eternity. We have con-
fidence in our husbands if they should be sent
to the ends of the earth we have no fear of
their being untrue to us. I asked him if he
did not see a much better state of society with
us, where women were protected from evil
men; while in the world they were degraded,
and treated as outcasts. "Oh," says he there
is indeed less evil in in your midst; your city
is the best governed and your people the most
moral of any that I know of; and it was much
better when under Mormon rulers, as it was
when I first came among you, than it is now.
	A great many times in the course of our con-
versation he would say, "your arguments are

[Column 2]
correct." He said he wanted to show me that
the Priesthood descended through the Catholic
Chur[-]h till the present day. After he had got
through, I answered, they crucified the Sav-
ior and pat the Apostles to death; consequent-
ly the Priesthood was taken from the earth;
besides the Apostles said there should be a fall-
ing away. "Oh," said he, "that means an in-
dividual falling away." He said "I should like
to know more of your doctrines, can you tell
me where I can purchase a book of Doctrine
and Covenants? I told him at the Deseret
News Office. He spoke very highly of Prest.
Young as a man of superior mind; after ask-
ing me a great many questions, he thanked
me, and they all bade me a pleasant good-bye
at Evanston, at which place I was delayed on
account of storms for three days and a half.
			(to be continued)


