PETTY DESPOTISM.

	Even in these days of Centennial free-
dom, one is occasionally reminded that all
despotism, of various degrees, is not yet
dead.
	There is the despotism of society, which
issues irrevocable edicts, and forbids all in-
dependence of thought and action; banish-
ing the intelligent and refined who may not
possess the requisite amount of money, and
making abject slaves of its votaries.
	There is the despotism political, giving
ing power to one sex only, to make laws for
the other.
	There is the despot of art, who sneers at


every effort of those who are not already
distinguished in the field.
	There is the despot in literature, who
would, if possible, prevent every one ex-
cept a Tennyson or a Browning or a few of
our own eminent poets and authors, from
using the pen.
	If a girl possess a passion for painting,
even though her brush yield nothing but
daubs to the educated eye, let her gratify
that love; be sorry for her that she cannot
have the advantages she craves, but do not
tell her that chromos are quite cheap, and
infinitely superior to anything she can pro-
duce. If a poor man hangs pretty, cheer-
ful chromos on his walls, do not tell him
that he will vitiate the taste of his child-
ren by so doing, and that he ought instead,
to purchase good engravings. The eye de-
lights in color; even crude coloring is better
that none.
	If a wealthy man buys beautiful paintings,
as he can do even here in America, do not
insist that it is his duty to send them all off
to the auction-room, and substitute photo-
graphs of Sistine Madonna. If even a wo-
man feels thoughts firing her brain while
she is washing dishes, let her tell them to
the world if she can get the world to listen.
For we contend that the people, other than
the great lights of literature, do have
thoughts to express, and original ones at
that. Thoughts born of daily and hourly
experience; thoughts wrenched out of heart
and brain with such pangs that one is posi-
tive the roots were branching on their na-
tive soil, and were not the transplanted
growths of some ancient or modern mind.
If they chance to be similar it is not sur-
prising, but the originality is not impaired.
	In a recent poem by a great poet a few
lines are startingly similar to others in some
obscure verses printed some dozen years
ago. Of course no one could be so absurd
as to imagine that the poet had ever seen
those verses, but if they were to re-appear
now, some astute critic would express sur-
prise at the daring plagiarism of the rhym-
ster.
	The writer has never been a correspond-
ent of Dr. Holmes, and has never used the
words "lush and swirl," so the rhymed let-
ter in a recent "Atlantic" is no personal
grievance, but, in behalf of all new writers
who have thoughts, we would protest against
the injustice. Critics seem to forget that
our poets are mortal, and that each coming
cycle will refuse to be satisfied with even
their echoing songs; every time will count
its rising bands of living singers.
								KEO.
—Woman's Journal.


MEASURE the stone by your rule and not
your rule by the stone.
	ONE ungrateful man does an injury to all[--]
who are wretched.
	OLD men are like the wrecks of t[---]
thrown by the waves of one century upon
the shore of another.
	WE too often tolerate foolery out of com-
plaisance, and play the fool from the same
weak motive.
	IF you want to understand a subject, hear
a man speak of it whose business it is. If
you want to understand the man, hear him
speak of something else.
	THERE is no living creature that gives,
us such an idea of happiness as a bird, as it
skims on light wing along the ether, alights
on flowery shrubs, or on the springy bow of
a lofty tree, or dresses its plumage by a
fountain or a stream.


