IGNORANCE AND EXTRAVAGANCE.

	It is an easy way of extricating one's self
from a difficulty to throw the blame on to
some irresponsible party, and woman seems to
have been made the scape-goat and make shift
in all the great questions that threaten danger
to man. "It is some woman's work, is the
foregone conclusion and of course it is a mat-
ter of self-gratulation to fancy that the wo-
man has done it, ignorantly and unthinkingly.
How could she know better, she is all weak-
ness and all dependence, and could not be ex-
pected to understand the dreadful consequences
which might be the result of only her vanity
or caprice? Man likes woman to be all sim-
plicity, weakness and dependence, but how
does he like the consequences it involves?
Would it not be more desirable to have a wife
who could thoroughly understand her husband's
position in regard to finance, and not only reali-
zed but appreciated the true dignity of character
which he should maintain despite style, society
and the admiration of men whose good opin-
ion is not worth a moment's thought of a pure-
minded honorable woman.
	Men who are anxious that woman should
trust blindly and implicitly to them for guid-
ance having no positive ideas of her own (ex-
cept upon the elegance and exquisiteness of
her costumes) are rightly served when they
are brought face to face with the stubborn fact
that they are ruined by her.
	Will it never be possible to make the major-
ity of men comprehend that woman's equality
with them on all subjects for the general wel-
fare, would save them from many of the en-
tanglements in which they become involved
through her ignorance and extravagance. It
is only the p[-]sitive result of their own preciou[-]
policy.
	Woman when on an equal footing will lose
her winsomeness, her attractiveness, her mag-
netic charm, this is their fallacious reasoning—
but if woman charms to destroy, if she through
these very attractions brings her husband to
ruin, what then? And where lies the fault? If
her education has been too superficial to give
her an understanding of what was best for her
own and her husband's interests, and most of
all what should be for the best welfare of her 
children—then is it not time for some change—
is it not time that woman was taught the prin-
ciples of the government of her country. and
what is due the country from those who sit in
high places and fill offices of trust? Is it not
absurd in this age of enlightenment for woman
to plead ignorance as an excuse for folly—be-
cause if such is really the case, what a terrible
account of time, opportunities and talents
wasted must be rendered to her Maker.


