HOME AFFAIRS.

	A NUMBER of valuable communications
have been left over until next issue for want
of space.
	NEXT THURSDAY the 6th inst., will commence
the Forty-sixth Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.


"BEN ISRAEL, or From Under the Curse,"
was performed at the theatre in this city Sat-,
urday evening March 25, and drew a large at-
tendance. Mr. E. W. Tullidge, the author,
has recently arrived from New York.
	THE NEW Chief Justice: Utah is to have
another change o fthis kind within a year.
The gentleman is a stranger here, but is said to
be thoroughly versed in laws relative to min-
ing and land questions. His name is John M.
Coglan, a Kentuckian by birth, but has resided
in California ever since the year 1850. 
	THE NEW and capacious building erected on
Main Street for the benefit of Z. C. M. I. is al-
ready very near completion, and is, or will
very soon be occupied by the institution. This
noble structure is a grand acquistion to the
city, and the ready manner in which the work
upon it has been performed, is an indication of
what might be accomplished through co-opera-
tion.
	WE LEARN from the "Utah Pomologist,"
J. E. Johnson's paper, that the ladies of St.
George have concluded—or ought to conclude
—to get their goods cheaper than they can be
obtained in that locality at present. Mr. John-
son advises the ladies to "put in a small sum
each, form a real co-op, employ one of their
number as clerk and leave the sterner sex to
seek more manly and fitting employment." If
co-ope[-]ation of this kind could be properly en-
tered into and carried out by different branch-
es of the Relief Society a great deal of time
and money would be saved that are now un-
profitably expended. 
	WE TAKE pleasure in recommending to the
reading public a new book just recently pub-
lished by the "Deseret News Co." entitled "Cor-
respondence at Palestine Tourists." It com-
prises a series of letters by George A. Smith,
Lorenzo Snow, Paul A. Schettler, and Eliza
R. Snow. These letters were mostly written
while traveling in Europe, Asia, and Africa in
the years 1872 and 1873; and contain interest-
ing items in regard to the various places they
vi[-]ited in these countries, with accurate and
reliable information concerning manners, cust-
toms and habits of the different varieties of
people who live upon the Eastern continent.


