PEN AND SCISSORS.

	IT may be mentioned as a historical sin-
gularity, that all the English kings who mar-
ried French princesses incurred the dis-
pleasure of their subjects and suffered vio-
lent deaths; as Edward II, Richard II,
Henry VI, and Charles I.
	AMONGST our industrious and frugal fore-
fathers, it was a maxim, that a young wo-
man should never be married until she had
spun herself a set of body, table, and bed-
linen. From this custom all unmarried wo-
men were termed spinsters, an appellation
they still retain in all our law proceedings.
	THE Danish Ambassador, having com-
plained to King William of the liberties ta-
ken with his master by Lord M[---]sworth
in his celebrated "Account of Denmark,"
hinted that if one of his Danish Majesty's
subjects had said as much of the King of
England, his master would upon complaint,
have taken off the author's head. "That I
cannot do," rejoined the king; "but if you
please, I will tell him what you say, and he
shall put it in the next edition of his book."
	FUSELI, the celebrated artist, had a great
dislike to commonplace observations. Af-
ter sitting perfectly silent for a long time in
his own room, during the "bald, disjointed
chat" of some idle callers-in, who were gab-
bling with one another about the weather,
and other topics of as interesting a nature,
he suddenly exclaimed, "We had pork for
dinner to-day."--"Dear! Mr. Fuseli, what
an odd remark!"--"Why, it is as good as
anything you have been saying for the last
hour.
	"GOOD WINE NEEDS NO BUSH."—Com-
mentators have been sadly puzzled to find
out the meaning of this proverb, which a
residence in France during an autumn
would easily have solved. In the depart-
ments where the vine is cultivated, the pea-
sant sells its vintage; and as a sign, a green
bush is stuck in the wall over the door; this
is a regulation of the police; and as long as
the peasant has any wine to sell, so long
must the bush remain. If one has made
better wine than another, the news is soon
spread abroad amongst the topers, and hence
the proverb, good wine needs no bush.
	"HELP, HELP!"—When Dick Aims first
crossed into York State, from the Canada
side, he took lodgings at an inn in Canand-
aigua. Awwaiting-maid sat at the table
with them; and Dick spoke of her as the
servant to the no small scandal of mine
host; who told him that in his house a ser-
vant was called a "help." Very well; the
next morning the whole house was alarmed
by a loud shouting by Dick of "Help! help!
water! help!" in an instant every person
in the inn equal to the task, rushed into
Dick's room with a pail of water. "I am
much obliged to ye, to be sure," said Dick,
"but here is more than I want to shave
with." "Shave with?" quoth mine host,
"you called 'help' and 'water!' and we
thought the house was on fire," "Ye told
me to call the servant help, and do ye think
I would cry water when I meant fire?"
"Give it up." said the landlord, as he led off
the line of buckets--New York Sun.


