		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	What should be woman's highest ambi-
tion, is a question often propounded, and
one to which it is difficult for even the most
profound student of human nature to give
a decisive or satisfactory answer. Men dif-
fer in their opinions upon this subject accord-
ing to their own tastes and cultivation.
That there should be some standard good-
ness to be attained by every woman of sense
and judgment all will agree. Pope in his
"Moral Essays" reduces their ambitions to
the low estimate of two passions only (in
general:)

		“In men we various ruling passions find;
		In woman two almost divide the kind:	
		Those only fix'd, they first or last obey,
		The love of pleasure, [-]r[-]the love of sway."

	Many men learned in book knowledge,
have made serious mistakes in their esti-
mate of woman's true character. Alas! one
can but regret the false judgment in regard
to woman which men, who on other ques-
tions make careful investigations, and are
particular not to convey wrong impressions,
yet stamp indelibly upon the public mind,
in dealing with this puzzling subject, which
above almost all others should be rightly
understood if woman is ever to fill the
true sphere for which nature has so pecu-
liarly adapted her, by the unmistakable tone
of her sentiments and bent of her tastes.
	Left even in a wild uncultivated state it
is apparent to the casual observer or care-
ful reader, woman seeks for the beautiful
in nature and ornamentation. Nor is this
any direct indication of frivolity or vanity,
or a definite tendency to shine in the eyes
of others or even to charm, but simply to
satisfy the cravings of a disposition implant-
ed in her, the innate love of the beautiful,
that she retains as part and parcel of that
divine heritage, her especial dower at the
hands of her Maker.
	That woman retains more of the refining
and  purifying elements in her nature
should be a positive demonstration in the
minds of all persons of discernment that
she has a special mission. That she
is endowed with more innate purity
and grace, a more intuitive conception
of divinity is a proof that she is the
real help-meet to assist in reinstating man
through her powerful influence in perfect-
ing and refining, that she may become with
him a participant in the glorious blessings
of that life which is eternal and without
parallell.
	According to the Bible, part of the curse
pronounced upon woman in the "Garden of
Eden" was that "her desire should be unto
her husband and he would rule over her."
Then was she not made equal with man,
and was it not through her agency that God
accomplished upon the earth the purposes
of its creation; for through her came the
knowledge of good and evil, without which
mankind could not have tested their integ-
rity before high heaven. And will it not be
through her devotion to God and her rev-
erence for all that is most holy and sacred,
that will most effectually influence man to
become pure, that he may again dwell in
Paradise.
	In what way can she best fulfill her sa-
cred and holy mission, and what should be
her highest ambition? This brings us back
to the point from which we started. That
woman should be a purifier of the moral
and religious atmospheres of society is
highly necessary. And what better proof
do we need of the merit of her work, than

[Column 2]
the testimony of men themselves who are
ready to acknowledge that without wo-
man's society man becomes coarse and un-
couth.
	What is this terrible fear men have of
woman's strength of mind and character,
which is almost universal? In both the
higher and lower classes of society, this fear
exists in about the same ratio. And even
men' who are extremely liberal in compari-
son with the majority, are continually on
the alert lest there should be a tendency in
THEIR wives and daughters to something
unfeminine.
	Is it not quite true that those men who
have left the best and fairest record of their
lives upon the earth, have been stimulated
to good, and strengthened in virtue, their
lives rounded and toned through the influ-
ance, and perhaps undemonstrative direc-
tion of woman, mother, sister, wife or
friend? Then why seek to rob woman of
the privilege assigned her in her creation,
to be a helpmeet? Why should she not
stand side by side with her brother, in all
questions of interest for the common weal?
For my part, I glory in the moral courage
which arms woman with sufficient heroism
to stand forth in her own defense, against
any invasion upon her inherited rights and
privileges. I know that although woman
may entertain some ideas that may not be
wholly consistent, yet out of the movement
which she is making to become more thor-
oughly developed and highly educated, will
yet spring a nearer conception of woman's
mission and work. Woman must eventu-
ally see (however distasteful to the opposite
sex the result may be,) that it is necessary
to possess sufficient strength of individual
character to protect her own purity and
chastity instead of relying upon the sterner
sex. Nor need man fear that a woman who
has all the attributes of mind under the
highest state of cultivation will be less cap-
able of loving a husband, for LOVE is a part
of her nature, inherent in her very being
which has been transmitted to her through
her divine parentage, and which also proves
her to be near akin to God, whom John the
beloved disciple describes in the 4th chapt-
er and 16th verse of his Epistle, thus, "God
is love."
	A higher education will not make woman
less capable of loving, but it will qualify
her to place her affections upon an object
worthy of the best and truest affections of
her womanly nature. Consequently men
who would stand high in woman's favor
must be in themselves more worthy, and
make for themselves a superior standard of
morals, and live by a higher law. And
when men can command by real merits the
admiration of woman, then will woman, if
she has lived up to her privileges, be ready
to stand by his side to counsel and advise,
to comfort and to bless.
	S. L. City, March 20th, 1876.


