DOMESTIC ECONOMY.

	Some of the best schools that could be insti-
tuted for many young women in this city and
various other places, would be those in which
cooking and housewifery might be throughly
taught.
	These things every one believes, should be
taught at home. But how many mothers there
are who have never had opportunities for learn-
ing the best methods for conducting their
house work.
	Happy matches sometimes result from the
admiration gentlemen feel for young ladies
whom they happen to observe are capable of
presiding well at table, or cooking a good din-
ner. There is a great deal more in these simple
things than some girls, or some mothers are
aware. For instance, in pouring tea or coffee,
(we do not advocate the use of either, but if
they must form a part of any meal it is well to
know how to manage them,) it is often the
case that persons not knowing[-]that the first
cup is the weakest and that the tea grows
stronger as the pouring off proceeds, bestows
the poorest cup upon the one for whom the best
should have been intended and give the last
and strongest cup to a young member of the
family. Where several cups of equal strength
are wanted, pour a little into each, then go
back inverting the order as the cups are filled
up, and the strength will be apportioned prop-
erly. This is so well understood by some that
an experienced hand waits till all the cups of
a company are returned to her before filling
any a second time, so that all may share
equally. Of course the tastes of all should be
consulted.
	Every sort of cooking should be done in a
dress that will wash, with a clean apron over
it; and it is well if the hair be covered. It


looks out of place certainly, to see a lady mak-
ing pies in an old black silk dress, trim[---]
with crape, and every crease full of flour.  All
old silk is useful for linings. but once used to
make pies or cakes in, it will be so defaced as
to lose half its value.
	This subject is one of such grave importance
that it will bear following up for a short per-
iod.


