OUR RELIGION.

	I should suppose that far seeing, ambitious,
yet tender wives and mothers, would not fail
to discover in the "Mormon plural wife sys-
tem," a means of entirely removing the great-
est and most rational objection brought for-
ward in opposition to women occupying pub-
lic offices. Men tell us and, many practical
women join them in the opinion, that a wo-
man's domestic concerns must be neglected if
her attention is given to anything else. But
in well regulated, happy polygamous families,
this difficulty is readily obviated, as the home
interests are mutual; and in the case of either
wife being absent or publicly engaged, anoth-
er may take the oversight and management of
the household affairs, look after the children,
and see that nothing goes wrong.
	I would be a Mormon—a whole-hearted, ear-
nest Mormon—if only for the sake of the heal-
ing ordinance which our religion contains. I
can only wonder when I see those who profess
to be Mormons, appear forgetful of God's prom-
ises to His people. In cases of severe or sudden
sickness, sometimes it seems as though they
question in themselves which it is best for
them to consult first, the Lord or the doctor.
B[-]t if, in all such cases, we could only reflect
reasonably and prayerfully, we should know
that unless the Lord [-]ight see fit to allow our
friends to be taken from us, he would hear our
petitions, and inspire us to pursue proper meth-
ods that they might be healed. And that if
the Lord would not heal them the doctors could
not. I say this with all due deference to good
physicians. I admire, respect and honor men
and women who labor to inform themselves on
scientific subjects, for the good of their fellow
beings. But the Lord knows more than it is
possible for them to learn in their mortal state,
and He has promised to heal those who will
call upon Him in faith.
	In reading of John Wesley, George White
field, Philip Doddridge and other wise and good
men who lived a few generations since, I have
wondered that they never understood and fol-
lowed the words of God in times of sickness
and suffering among themselves and their
friends. How must they have interpreted this
passage of Scripture. "Is any sick among you?
Let him call for the elders of the church, and
let them pray over him, anointing him with
oil, in the name of the Lord."
	I suppose the Lord did not wish to open their
eyes and quicken their understandings then,
that they might receive a knowledge of the
fulness of the everlasting Go[---] It was not
His set time for restoring His Priesthood to
the sons of men.


And now that it is among us, how slow we
are to realize and acknowledge its blesssings!
But the Gospel of Jesus is perfect in all its
parts; and we have only to learn to live in ac-
cordance with its principles, in order to over-
come all our imperfections. To live perfect
lives we have only to live our Religion.
