FORE THE 20th WARD Y. L. R. A.

	The one great cry of the world to-day is
education; and we do not differ from the
rest in this particular. Most of the lectures
and sermons we hear [-]reat more or less on
this subject. When we are exhorted so
much, I think we as obedient children should
strive to obey. It is for our welfare and al-
so for the good of future generations.
	But the question may arise how shall we
arrive at this stage of culture. By reading
light literature that fires the imagination
and builds false hopes that can never be re-
alized or attained to? Emphatically NO!
This destroys rather than improves the
mind. It does not awaken the reflective
organs or give rise to elevating thoughts.
But still, although this fact is so well known,
this trash finds a ready sale, while the
church books and other solid works are neg-
lected by the young. How frequently we
hear the expression, "I can't!" from persons
called upon to perform some duty. Have
they cultivated the abilities God has given
them, to enable them to accomplish what
duty calls for? Our talents are not given
us for our own special use but for each to
benefit the other. How often has the world
been benefitted by the ideas of one man.
The inventive man for instance, by the aid
and application of labor wins for himself a
name that will ever be honored and respect-
ed. The same can be applied to ourselves;
if we store our minds with knowledge
that will be beneficial to the society in
which we move we will be accounted as
general benefactors. Let us endeavor to be
self-made, there is more glory in mounting
the hill through our own perseverance
than if we had crowds helping us. Never
indulge a doubt; fathom beyond them; if
questions arise in your minds, never let
them slip by as being of no consequence,
this is an error that a great many do not ob-
serve until it is too late. To enable us how-
ever to solve these problems, we must em-
ploy our time in useful research upon the
subject that is so incomprehensible to us.
We should take these things into considera-
tion. We go to meeting to learn and many
times we get an idea that is puzzling in its
nature, and as I said before let us employ
a few leisure moments in study, until we
have surmounted the difficulty. Observe
this and every experience will be to us a
means of advancement.
	The world looks upon us as being ignor-
ant. Certainly we have not, in the past,
had the advantages which the present op-
portunities offer us. But God has given to
the children of the Latter day Saints supe-
rior intelligence and they understand the
things of eternity to-day, better than the
wise men of the world. And if they im-
prove their talents in such a way as to win
the approbation of God, He will give them
more; and in a short time through His in-
strumentality they will far excel the world
in every respect.
	Let us so live that we may have God's
Holy Spirit to dictate to us, that our light
may shine before all men.
								R. M.
	20th Ward R. A. S. L. City.


