EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I have been thinking for some time of
writing to let you know how we are get-
ting along with our Improvement Associa-
tion. We meet together once a week, open 
our meetings with prayer and singing and
bear testimony to the things of the king-
dom. The young ladies of the Society
take great interest in attending these meet-
ings, and are also improving in composing
essays and take delight in learning poetry,
and speaking and reading selections. We
have good times and enjoy the spirit of the
Lord, we feel that we have His blessing
with us continually. Our Improvement As-
sociation was organized Nov. 28th, 1875,
with the following officers:
	Mrs. Melissa K. Lee, President,
	"	Bathsheba Grundy,
	Miss Libbie Hamblin,
	"	Leah Blackburn,
	"	Rhoda Baker,				Counselors.
	"	Sarah Ann Zabriskie,
	"	Frances Grundy,
	Mrs. Emeline Goodman,		Secretaries
	"	Mary A. Osborn,
	We have made our resolutions as follows:
	1st. Resolved: That we consider it a duty
devolving on the members of this Associa-
tion to attend Sabbath meetings. Fast-day
meetings, and all other religious meetings
of the Saints.
	2nd. Resolved: That as we believe tak-
ing the name of God in vain is a deep pro-
fanity, we will use our influence to abolish
that practice, and will abstain from the use
of all slang phrases or by-words which are
degrading to all those that use them.
	3rd. Resolved: That inasmuch as strong
drink is injurious to health and happiness,
we will try to reduce that practice by not
associating with those who use it to excess.
	4th. Resolved: That as we believe the
use of tobacco is very injurious to the health
and very disagreeable in the presence of
ladies, therefore we will use all our influ-
ence to prevent this unwise habit.
	5th. Resolved: That as round dancing al-
so is very injurious to health we will not
indulge in it to excess; and will try to re-
form our conduct in general, such habits
as loud laughter, speaking lightly of each
other and of sacred things.
	Our prayer is that the Lord will bless us
and all those that strive to do right, that
we may have His blessings continually, is
our desire
 Yours Respectfully,
		MRS.MARY A. OSBORN,
							Sec'y. 
        	KAMAS, March 13th, 1876.

