			R. S. REPORT.

			Goshen, March 14th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is doing well, and we
are making preparations to build a house
this summer to hold our meetings in &c.
Sister Taylor, our Secretary, is preparing a
full report of our Society which she will
send you.
	Our Young Ladies' and Young Men's
Mutual Improvement Societies are in a
flourishing condition. The young ladies
have started a paper entitled the "Young
Ladies' Gem" which contains some very
creditable pieces. Mrs. Christina Higgin-
son is editor; it is doing much good among
the young sisters.
	We are rather isolated here, being about
six miles from the main road through the
settlements, and it is seldom that we have
any of the Elders, or sisters of other Relief
Societies visit us.
	Should any of the sisters from Salt Lake
City be passing through the settlements at
any time, and it will be convenient for
them, we would be very glad if they would
call and see us.
	We received orders from sisters Smith
and Barney, (through our Bishop,) to make
some good strong durable clothing for the
Indians and now have on hand quite a
lot, which we will send down the first
chance we have. I would be very glad to
become acquainted with you, and all good
sisters who wish well for the prosperity of
Zion.
				Yours Sincerly,
					Mary Johnson.
Dear Exponent:
	I send you a report of the 20th Ward
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association,
which was organized Sep. 3rd, 1875, with 40
members, 55 having been added since.
	Our President and Counselors have mani-
fested a deep interest for the progress of our
meetings and their efforts have been suc-
cessful. A fund has been created for the
purpose of having means on hand when a
call is made to help the poor, or assist in
any good enterprise. The members express
their willingness to help and sustain the
president, showing by their obedience to
any call she makes; they take great in-
terest in these meetings realizing the good
they obtain by paying strict attention to
the instruction they receive.
	In conclusion I will say, temporally we
are poor, spiritually humble, and socially
ready at any time for the presence and so-
ciety of those who are capable of instruct-
ing us.
	Respectfully yours,
					R.E. MANNING
							Secretary.
	20th Ward, Feb. 28th, 1876.

