		MANTUA, BOX ELDER CO.,
				      March 4th, 1876.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I have been thinking about writing for
some time, but have neglected it, not being
accustomed to write for a paper. I can truly
say I never felt happier than the day Sister
Eliza R. Snow was here to organize us as
a Retrenchment Association, and blessed us
with such great blessings which I can nev-
er forget. Therefore I feel to bless her and
our President brother Jenson for taking
such a deep interest in our welfare, and for
othsr things as well as having us organized
into these societies which is indeed a great

[Column 2]
privilege, as well as a great blessing to us.
I think it a pleasure as well as a duty to
send you a report of our society; we have
had very interesting meetings, a good spirit
always seems to attend there, even the
smallest girls arise and bear their testimo-
nies. And there also seems to prevail a
spirit of harmony and obedience. I think
they all try to please one another, as well
as the Lord. They also seem to im-
prove in speaking; and are willing to re-
trench from what is required of them. I
don't think there is one imported hat be-
longing to one of the girls in the society;
we also wear home-made dresses and shoes
for which we feel to honor our President
Lorenzo Snow, for his untiring efforts in
the behalf of our HOME MANUFACTURES.
I hope before long we will be more inde-
pendent as a community. We have also
stopped round dancing and close our parties
at ten oclock. We attend our fast meetings
and Sabbath meetings and Sabbath schools.
We dress plainly and I think we all try to
live our religion to the best of our ability.
	Let us be prayerful and try to live as
Saints, and practice good and useful things
while young, so when we grow older we can
look back and see our good works. I ask
the Lord to bless us all. And hoping you
will excuse this my first attempt,
	I remain your sister,
			MISS SOPHIA ANDERSON,
							President.


PINE CANYON, March 7th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I attended the Retrenchment meeting
this afternoon and President Miss Isabella
Martin requested me to make out a report
of our proceedings here and send it to you.
We meet together every two weeks and
enjoy ourselves in talking of the things per-
taining to the Gospel. The members of our
Society feel it a pleasure to comply with the
wishes of our beloved President Young
with regard to closing our parties at the
time appointed, and have made up our
minds to refrain from round dancing. We
advise the young sisters who have not yet
joined a Refrenchment Association, to do
so, for it will educate and prepare them for
duties in after life, and they will gain ex-
perience and confidence in these societies;
and when we are called to take active
parts in the Church and Kingdom of God,
we will have overcome that feeling of tim-
idity which is so trying to us all when we
arise to counsel and instruct each other.
We have in our society little girls from
eight to ten years of age, who arise and
bear their testimony when called upon, who
I am sure will be numbered with the noble
women of Zion, and will never forget the
influence for good which is now being im-
pressed upon their young minds. Our Re-
trenchment Association was organized June
23rd, 1874, with the following officers:
	Miss Isabella Martin, President,
	Mrs. Charlotte Steele, Supt.,
	"	Eliza Shields,
	"	Margaret Smith,	Counselors.
	"	Martha Shields.
	The hand of death has been in our midst
and has taken from us our beloved and ever
to be remembered Treasurer, Mrs. Martha
Smith, and another has not yet been select-
ed to fill her place.
