			WOMAN.

	It is woman's privilege to be queen of a
<hy su?h-wpfhi="" mis-="" ‘="" takes,="" and="" by.="" not="" (caluqg="" things="" by="" their="" right="" names.="" wqmep="" often="" take="" shelter="" ip="" .their,="" weakupsp,="" and.="" ppljpvp="" ;it="" ,="" i.,.right,="" 1="" iniwhereas="" ,.if,="" woman="" kx="">mighty realm! at present, mighty only in
minutiae! her subjects are the Lilliputians
of the earth, and their moral stature will be
pigmy, full-grown, or colossal, according as
her laws are wise, judicious and in love.
She controls, or ought to, the elements of
life, the germ of future glory, exaltation,
and the rudiments of angelic life. It is her
province to mould, to train, to nurture, to
support, to feed the precious mind of in-
fancy and youth. What more noble desti-
ny could she desire? Is she not working
for eternity? Can she do this in her own
strength? Certainly not. But she goes to
the Fountain Head of wisdom, asks and re-
ceives. Many of the great ones of the
earth, who have risen to eminence and
power, have fondly and proudly pointed to
their mothers, who, by their judicious train-
ing and management of their infancy and
youth, have sown and brought to perfection
the precious seed which, under God, they
were enabled to cast into their minds,
by which they became great; among a host
of such we may name Napoleon the First,
Lamartine, Bulwer, Eliza Cook, who have
all named their mother before the world,
with all honor. Shall not such instances
urge WOMAN to realize her responsibility

[Column 2]
and the end of her creation? Noble is her
work and mighty her responsibility! Her
first act of government must be SELF. She
has many a secret battle to fight to bring
herself into subjection. The foundation
must be good or it cannot support the super-
structure. The fountain must be pure, or
its streams can never fertilize the young
plants they are intended to invigorate and
renovate. The first lesson she must learn
is humility; the next obedience—if she
desires to conquer she must stoop to do so.
All children should learn these grand fun-
damental principles, but remember humility
and obedience must never degenerate into
apathy and servility, such would render
them obnoxious. True greatness is always
humble and gentle, for it knows its power,
feels its dignity is fully established, and
there is no foolish fear of compromising it.
In good government there must ever be
decision of character; firmness and gentle-
ness united. Let your laws be framed in
love and wisdom, and then do not allow
them to be broken with impunity. There
must be no vacillation or temporizing
about it; make no law that you cannot vig-
orously enforce; let love ever preside, but
mistake not foolish fondness for love; mis-
take not indolence and apathy for meekness;
mistake not negligence in your arrange-
ments for easiness of temper; there is much
that is wrong in woman by such woful mis-
takes, and by not calling things by their
right names. Women often take shelter in
their weakness, and believe it is right,
whereas if woman KNEW HERSELF, her
soul is large enough for all her Maker in-
tended her for, and she was made a help-
meet for man." These words are framed in
the sublime brevity of Holy Writ, but they
form a compendium of woman's position,
woman's duty, and of woman's exaltation.
The woman who really carries out her des-
tiny is indeed a heroine; if she desires great-
ness, she has it—I will prove it. True, her
sphere is in the secluded domestic drama of
life, beyond which her name is generally
unknown; but is he ONLY a hero whose
name resounds through the world as a hero
of battles and bloodshed? In the eye of
the misjudging world it may be so, but
when "the partition wall is broken down"
that shuts out the world from the immortal,
when "the scales fall" from human eyes,
and the veil is removed from human hearts,
then shall many an obscure individual stand
forth as the sterling soldier of Christ, and
many shall be abashed whose proud banner
flaunted over the battle fields of human
glory, but who disdained to fight in the
ranks of the great Captain of their salva-
tion. Is there no heroism in the daily
home struggle of the battle of life? To do
our duty to all around us, in the untiring
efforts to bear upward towards the light of
truth, to keep to the "narrow way," to be
patient, to persevere, to endure, to press on,
and not for the praise of humanity, for often
no eye but God's beholds the struggle, but
because the Spirit's eye is resting on that
glorious promise, "be thou faithful unto
death; and I will give thee a crown of life."
What is heroism, if this is not something of
the definition of it? Then I assume that
every such woman, who so proves herself,

[Column 3]
and those committed to her care is a hero-
ine, her name may be emblazoned on no
earthly scutchion, but I know it is traced
by the recording angel in the archway of
heaven and sealed with the signet ring of 
the Immortal.
