EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have for a long time been wishing that
by. the Spirit of God I might be able
to write a few lines that might be edifying
to some, and that would also tend to develop
my own mind. I feel and realize that the
more we exercise the ability and cultivate
the knowledge which God has given unto
us, the better will we be able to convey
our thoughts, and by seeking after Him in
humble prayer, He will enlarge our under-
standings so that we can comprehend more
clearly the work that is for us to perform,
that we may be helpmeets to our husbands
in rolling forth this great work of salvation
in these the LAST DAYS. I am but young,
yet I feel to rejoice in the glorious princi-
ples which the Lord has revealed for the
salvation of His children; and feel to bless
my parents every day that I live for instill-
ing these principles in my mind in child-
hood. I think that many of us while young,
do not realize that it is our good our parents
are seeking when they persuade us to go to
meetings instead of going out walking for
amusement; but in after years, when we be-
come wives and mothers we realize it more
fully; I have proved this in my short expe-
rience, and I think it is also the experience
of a great many. Let us as a united band
of sisters improve in everything that is good
that we may be fit instruments in the hands
of God in fulfilling His wise purposes, and
perform our work faithfully in elevating the
sphere of woman.
	I think that the EXPONENT is an excel-
lent paper and may it receive a wider circu-
lation among the sisters, and accomplish the
good work for which it was started. This is
the earnest prayer of your sister in the Gos-
pel.
				MRS. M. W. WARNICK.
	Pleasant Grove, March 13th 1876.


SOME fill conspicuous places, some make
the places they fill conspicuous.
	HONOR is but the reflection of a man's
own actions shining bright in the face of all
about him, and from thence rebounding up-
on himself.—South.
	THERE is an emanation from the heart
in genuine hospitality which cannot be de-
scribed but is immediately felt, and puts
the stranger at once at his ease.—Washing-
ton Irving.
	JOHN G. Whittier has a statuette of Her-
cules leaning on his club, which was formerly
in Charles Sumner's library. It was pre-
sented to the poet by the sister of Mr. Sum-
ner.
	THE poet Moore, whose verse is so singu-
larly mellifluous, liquid, facile, has remarked
that "labor is the purest of all the lasting
wonders of the world, whether in verse or
stone, whether poetry or pyramids."


