Elder John Longden, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away August 30, 1969, in Salt Lake City, Utah. He had served as an Assistant to the Twelve since 1951. During that time he fulfilled many important callings for the Church and endeared himself to members throughout the world.

Elder Longden was born in Oldham, England, on November 4, 1898, the son of Thomas J. and Lizetta Taylor Longden. The family emigrated to the United States and Salt Lake City ten years later. Elder Longden was graduated from LDS Business College and attended the University of Utah. He served as a missionary in the Central States Mission.

Elder Longden had a successful business career. At the time of his retirement, he was area manager for National Electric Products Corporation. Interested in music and dramatic arts, Elder Longden studied voice and dramatics. He was well-known throughout the area as a gifted singer. He gave freely of his talent, singing at Church services, weddings, funerals, and other gatherings.

In 1924, Elder Longden married LaRue Carr in the Salt Lake Temple. They had three daughters: Mrs. Grant (Gail) Hickman, and Mrs. Loren C. (Sharon) Dunn. The first daughter, Helen Margaret, died in childhood. There are three grandsons and five granddaughters.

Elder Longden was always devoted to the gospel and served in several MIA superintendencies, as bishop, and as high councilman in two stakes, and on the General Church Welfare Committee prior to his call as a General Authority. As a General Authority, he served on the General Priesthood Committee and several youth committees. At the time of his death, he was supervising all stakes and missions in the British Isles. Previously, he had supervised missions in the South Pacific, Australia, and New Zealand.

The General Board and Relief Society members in all stakes and missions of the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to the family of Elder Longden and to his many friends. He has left a heritage in faith and dedication to the gospel for others to follow.