Kathleen Peace Gregory Dewsbury, Yorkshire, England
m
"Oh, Steve, it's perfect." Jean Roberts clasped her hands excitedly as her eyes took in every detail of the picturesque cottage. The weather-worn stone, the small latticed windows framed with climbing ivy, and the cowled chimney sitting slightly askew upon the low roof.
" Dad, Mum, can we explore?" "Let's go in. Quick." "I'll bet a witch once lived there." "Boys, simmer down, it's not going to disappear." Their father laughed at the excited faces in the back of the car. "We have the key," he continued, "and we can go and look at the cottage, but that dog stays put."
"That dog" breathed heavily and a long pink tongue reached out for Steve's ear. "No, Trub, you can't get out, you would only get into mischief." Steven spoke sternly.
The dog gave a resigned sigh as they stepped from the car, and laying his head on his paws, gazed with mournful eyes at the departing family.
Jean opened the gate, and the three older boys hustled through, nearly bowling each other over. Steve, following, carrying baby James, laughed. "There's plenty of garden. They will certainly enjoy living here if we decide to buy," he said. "My mind is nearly made up," replied Jean, picturing crisp white net behind the latticed panes.
"There may be dry rot, woodworm, and medieval plumbing," Steve warned her. The path to the front door was overgrown with weeds, and the once trim lawns were scattered with daisies and buttercups, while a few pansies grew harmoniously with the wild clover.
Steve approached the door with the key as the boys came bounding back. "Dad, there's a tree big enough to hold a swing," John, the eldest of the three, gasped, his eyes bright with anticipation. "We could have a pet rabbit, couldn't we?" asked Pete, the younger one, while Martin, whose physique belied his appetite, said, "And there're some apple trees and blackberry bushes. Oh, boy!" Jean and Steve laughed as he went on, "We might even be able to grow our own peas." "And you'd go nibbling them all," John poked him with a grubby finger.
"Come on, chaps, let's see what's inside."
Inside the low-ceilinged house, old oak beams ran the length of the downstairs rooms. These lovely old beams are thirsty for polish, Jean thought, and my brass ornaments will look most attractive. Chintz covers and drapes I have furnished and redecorated already! Reluctantly she brought her thoughts back to the present.
A large lounge led to an even larger stone-floored kitchen, and a narrow stairway reached to the upper floor. There they found three bedrooms, one being slightly larger than the other two. A small room under the eaves reached by a wall ladder completed the layout of the cottage.
"Well?" Steve asked inquiringly, "what do you think of it? Would you be happy here? It will mean making new friends Trouble and More Trouble and neighbours," he went on, "but that shouldn't be too difficult."
"A small town will be a big change from the city," Jean replied, "but I think the garden itself is well worth moving for. I know the boys will enjoy living here, and I'm sure Trub will like it, too," she added.
"Trub had been with them for nearly a year. He had followed one of the boys home, a longhaired, mournful-eyed dog of doubtful parentage, and after making the usual inquiries and finding no owner, the dog had become part of the family. The boys had wanted to name him Butch, but after the escapades of the first few weeks, with Steve repeating, 'That dog is nothing but trouble,' they decided to call him Trouble, shortened to Trub.
"Well that's that." Steve surveyed the ring of expectant faces as they all converged in the tiny hall. "I will inquire about a mortgage and, after seeing about a few alterations and modernization, we will move in as soon as we can. In a year or two we can maybe build on an extra couple of rooms."
"We could sleep on the grass in a tent," Pete volunteered hopefully, 'and Trub would guard us from the witch." "What about during the winter when there's snow up to the roof?" Martin asked.
"Oh, boys, you do exaggerate." Jean laughed. "Now, we will work it out so that we all have a decent roof over our heads. Come on, let's go back to the car and see what Trub is doing."
They filed out of the cottage, Jean locking the door behind them. "Oh, Mum, just look at Trub," John giggled as they approached the car. The dog had his wet nose pressed flat to the window, his tongue dripping against the glass.
"Just look at that window," groaned Steve. "He's healthy, that's why his nose is wet," Pete informed them knowingly. "My Primary teacher says so, and she knows everything."
"Well I wish he would be healthy somewhere else," his father answered, hustling the boys into the rear seat of the car. "Will one of you clean the window with this cloth?" he added, helping Jean and young James into the front seat ready for the return journey.
"I don't think that this house will ever be tidy again." Jean ruefully surveyed the general chaos as the removal men took their departure. "And whose bright idea was it to let the boys help?"
Steve straightened his back wearily and with a twinkle in his eyes he replied, "My dear, moving house is an adventure and they are making memories today."

By this time next year we shall all be looking back and saying 'Do you remember when the bottom dropped out of the toy box as Martin carried it upstairs and we found that 'all the old toys which we had thrown away had been rescued, and how Pete curled up and fell asleep in a drawer, and how John got stuck in a doorway trying to move a wardrobe?" "Okay. You've convinced me,' Jean laughed, "but I'm _ very glad you agreed to let Sister Garner take care of young James and the dog. I dread to think what could have happened with those two helping!"' 5 "They were just about to set to work when a resounding bang shook the house. "The boys!" they both spoke together as they hurried to investigate. Entering the largest bedroom, they found what seemed to be a heap of struggling arms and legs, as three red-faced, giggling boys emerged from the chaotic muddle of the bed. "What on earth are you doing now?" Jean inquired. "I thought the ceiling was coming down." "I put your bed together again,' John, the eldest of the boys, replied, looking at his parents. "And then we all jumped on it to test it and it collapsed," he ended lamely. "I should think it did collapse." His father looked ruefully at the melee. "Come on all together, let's get it built up again. I don't relish the thought of sleeping on the floor tonight." "When you're finished here will you come and help me set out the crockery, please, boys?" Jean asked. "There are two packing cases to empty before we can have any supper." "Sure thing, Mum," Martin replied, "and can I have some peanut butter sandwiches, please, to keep me going until suppertime? I'm starving." "That child must have an abyss for a stomach." Steve shook his head. "He ought to be like a plum dumpling, but he never gets any fatter. Off you go, boys. I'll see to this while you help your mother." Gradually the bright summer colors deepened to the mellow tints of autumn, and the family settled down in their new home. Trub had been wildly excited when introduced to his new home. He had run around inspecting every tree in sight, hurtling through the house like a miniature tornado, skidding on the polished floors. Finally he had settled in an untidy heap on the hearth rug, his exploration completed. The older boys had quickly made new friends, while Jean's bright disposition came to good use, and she was soon on friendly terms with the occupants of nearly every house on the road. One person, however, always answered her kindly greeting with a grunt and never smiled. An upright, elderly gentleman, the retired Colonel Watkins, lived further along the road, and seemed very brusque. Jean often wondered about him, living alone and so unfriendly. He didn't even have a smile for young James in his pram, until one day when Trub took a turn in the events. "Mum!" Martin came rushing into the kitchen. "Mum, I've been to see Colonel Watkins, and I think he's ill and he was angry." "You've been to see Colonel Watkins?" Jean was astounded. "Yes. You see Trub escaped," Martin began, "and I went looking for him and I went to the colonel's to ask him if I could look around his garden and he did look ill,' Martin ended breathlessly. "Well, why was he angry?" Jean inquired. "I hope you weren't rude?" "Oh, no,' Martin answered firmly, "he asked me why I wanted to look in his garden, and I answered and said very politely, 'I'm just looking for Trouble,' and he said that I was a naughty impur imp Se "Impertinent," Jean finished for him. "Yes. Impertinent little boy, and he told me to go home," Martin went on, "and then he began to cough and he looked real bad." "Oh, dear,' Jean sighed, not knowing whether to laugh or cry. "I will have to go and explain, and if the poor man is ill, I'll see if he needs any help." "T'll play with James while you go," offered Martin. "Thank you, dear." Jean hurried out and down the road to the home of Colonel Watkins. He answered her knock, looking just as ill as Martin had said, his military bearing gone and his blue eyes clouded. After making apologies and explanations on Martin's behalf, Jean went on, "I wondered if I could get you anything? My son said that you are ill." "No, thank you. I can manage," he answered gruffly. "Well maybe I could send you some lunch over with one of my boys?" Jean asked hesitantly, "or some hot lemon? You look as if you have caught flu." "Oh, you might as well come in," he said grudgingly, holding the door open for her, and followed her in to sink into a deep chair by the low fire. "Must apologize," he grunted. "My daily woman is ill. Tried to do a bit but had to give up. Flu, as you said." Jean took off her coat and began to tidy up, softened as she glanced at the old man. He seemed more human today, all the fire gone out of him. "I must go now," she roused him gently. "I'll send some broth over. Try to take some, it will make you feel better, and I'll call around later." Next morning John and Martin accompanied Jean to visit the colonel. As John cleaned out the old-fashioned hearth, Martin chopped sticks outside to light the fire. Jean tidied up and dusted while the old man watched. "T had a son," he said suddenly. Jean turned as John looked up. "Is he grown up now, Sir?" he asked. 830 her eyes ' "No," answered the colonel sadly, "he was killed during the last war. He was only twenty-two, and the shock made my wife so ill she died not long after. He was our only child." "Oh, my dear, I am sorry." Jean went and knelt by the chair, suddenly understanding the colonel's sternness and apparent dislike of children. He was nursing a broken heart. "What he must have suffered, living alone all these years," Jean told Steve that evening, "gradually being left all alone with his grief. I'm not surprised he became grim and hard." Within a few days all the family were visiting the colonel, including Trub, who, most of the time, liked to lie with just the tip of his nose upon the old man's slipper. The colonel was much better and seemed to enjoy watching the boys help tidy up. "T'm sorry Trub wandered into your garden and made a nuisance of himself." Martin said one morning, as the colonel was watching the tidy-up operation. "You know he isn't really a bad dog, Sir," Martin continued earnestly, "he only needs - understanding." "T'm sure that's all he needs," replied the old man, trying to keep a straight face. "You see he wasn't really our dog," Martin went on. "He just came one day and stayed.

He didn't have anyone to love him so we adopted him." The colonel laughed. "I'm sure you never could have bought such a handsome looking creature. He would have been far too expensive."

"Mum, I have an idea," John turned suddenly to his mother. "Why don't we adopt Colonel Watkins as our Grandpa, if he will let us? We have only one and he lives a long way from us, and the colonel is all alone."

They all looked at the old man inquiringly. Suddenly he had turned rather red. His cold had come back it appeared as he blew hard into his handkerchief.

"And you will be our very own Grandpa, and tell us stories?" Peter's voice was shrill with delight. "Oh, boy!"

Trub, hearing the excited chatter, came bounding into the room to investigate, skidded to a halt by the colonel's chair, and laid a large paw on his knee.

"It seems that even Trub agrees," laughed the old man with misty eyes. "Good old Trub, for without him, we might never have become friendly. With four mischievous boys and a delinquent dog, I'm certainly going to have my work cut out."

"Yes," he continued more seriously. "I would like to be your Grandpa and I'll never forget the honor you have paid me today. I only wish my dear wife was here beside me to have a second chance at happiness."

"That's settled, then," Jean said briskly, with a slight sniff. "Come on, chaps, there's work to be done and Grandpa's fire is burning low." They all laughed, and with a contented sigh Colonel Watkins settled further down into his chair with Trub stretched out at his feet.