HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness 'Discussion 5—'She... Worketh Willingly With Her Hands.' (Prov. 31:13) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: OBJECTIVE: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the wisdom of preparing for family security through home storage of foods. INTRODUCTION The people of our Latter-day Saint communities are accustomed to the idea of home food storage. Ever since our great-grandparents entered these valleys of the mountains, we have been planting gardens, reaping rich harvests, and storing the grains, fruits, and vegetables which they have yielded, to supply us with food for the winter months. Few of our parents would have felt secure if they had not known that their shelves were well stocked with jars of home-canned fruits and vegetables and that their supply of sugar, flour, and other staples was complete. Many of us, together with our Church members in other parts of the world, are still cognizant of 864 the need for family preparedness and are able to look with pride on our shelves of delicious jams, jellies, pickles, and bottled fruits of every kind and our cupboards and pantries supplied with all the necessities for the year ahead. Some of us, on the other hand, have forsaken these traditions and have accustomed ourselves to the convenience of the corner grocery store and are living from week to week with little or no regard for the future. We need to remind ourselves that a supply of food in our homes may be much more valuable than money under emergency conditions when food might be difficult to obtain or in the event of misfortune such as accident or loss of health which could result in loss of employment. WHAT FOODS SHALL WE STORE? Requirements of people and storage conditions in different areas and countries are so varied that the preparation of a list of what to store would not be practical.

Any good plan for a year's food supply should be based on a good plan for a daily food supply. It is most desirable to store those foods which are normally used by the family. It is recommended that we eat the stored supplies and replace them as we use them on a rotation basis. The saying "store what you eat and eat what you store" is a wise and practical one. It is not wise to store a quantity of food that the family does not normally eat or that is not acceptable in the regular family food pattern.

There are several factors which govern the needs of a family and determine the kinds and amounts of food to be stored. Because of this, our Church leaders have in their wisdom left the details of food storage to each individual family to work out for itself. Our needs, then, will vary according to our family's particular tastes, situation, and circumstances, as determined by (1) the climate in which we live; (2) the size of the family; (3) the ages of the family members; (4) the occupations and physical activities of the members; (5) the likes and dislikes of the family; and (6) any special diet problems within the family.

Probably the most significant reason why many of our people do not have a reserve of food supplies and other provisions is that they think they cannot afford it. It is true that many families are not in a position to purchase a year's supply in addition to their daily needs, but there are ways by which, with careful planning and systematic procedures, this can be accomplished.

1. By home canning and buying in season.
2. By over-purchasing. It is suggested that when we do our marketing we "over-purchase" at least ten percent on storable foods that the family ordinarily uses. By careful planning this practice will not upset the budget but can actually be absorbed as part of the weekly purchasing allotment. This additional supply should be designated as storage food and should be used in rotation as new stocks are purchased.

Are we willing to curb our appetites for luxury items and nonessentials long enough to build up our supply from what we save?

3. By taking advantage of food sales. If we watch the markets and take advantage of reliable food sales, we can buy food at reduced prices without sacrificing quality.

A well-balanced diet should come first in any kind of food planning, since the health of the family members is influenced more by the food they eat than by any other factor. Any wise homemaker is aware of the nutritional requirements of a good basic food plan. But just as it is neither wise nor feasible to work out any over-all food storage plan, neither is it possible to suggest a nutritional plan that would satisfy every family's needs. In a general way, however, all of the suggestions that have been given could be modified and adapted to fill every family's nutritional needs.

The following classes of foods for storage will supply the basic nutritional needs.
1. Staples—Wheat, beans, rice, sugar or honey, salt, and vitamins.
2. Dehydrated foods—Eggs, milk, fruit, and vegetables. These augment the staples.
3. Canned foods—Fish, meats, nuts, juices, etc. (These require rotation if not used after a year's time).
4. Water. It is suggested that every family keep on hand a supply of water in addition to that stored in home tanks. Emptied fruit bottles should be filled with water and sterilized. Chlorinated water may be safely stored also.

The success of any food storage plan will depend, in large measure, upon our attitude toward it. When we, the mothers and homemakers, can see the wisdom of having a good food storage program, and the foresight and ingenuity to carry it through, there is no doubt that our families will respond enthusiastically and that its success will be assured.