SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life
Lesson 5—Be of Good Cheer Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, lessons 29, 36, and 45.)

Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: 

To remind the Latter-day Saint woman that the gospel of Christ brings a message of gladness to her home.

"Lift up your head and be of good cheer...." (3 Ne. 1:13.) These are words of the Lord spoken to Nephi, son of Nephi, in an hour of great need. It was a crucial, faith-testing time for those Nephites who had kept faith with the beliefs and traditions of their fathers, for there were many among them who began to say that the time had passed for the prophecies of Samuel to be fulfilled. Nephi, with head bowed in earnest prayer, cried mightily unto the Lord in behalf of the believers. He was in critical need of divine assurance, for there had been a day set apart whereon all who believed in the prophets would be destroyed unless the sign of the Savior's birth was given.

These words came in answer to his humble prayer for that assurance:

Lift up your head and be of good cheer; for behold, the time is at hand, and on this night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come I into the world, to show unto the world that I will fulfill all that which I have caused to be spoken by the mouth of my holy prophets. (3 Ne. 1:13.)

This scripture leads us into the general subject of this discussion. While there is no single lesson in the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study considering this theme specifically, there are many comments and statements in the lessons which are relevant and affirm the fact that we individually and the Church membership collectively have many blessings for which we should be grateful and which warrant our being of good cheer. Throughout the lesson these two questions will be uppermost in mind:

1. How may the words of the Lord "be of good cheer" apply to the Latter-day Saint woman in her home?
2. In a world beset with problems and sin, what should make the Latter-day Saint people, as a collective group, be of good cheer?

Class Question

How would you answer the foregoing two questions at this point in the class discussion?

Nephi must have lifted his head toward heaven in indescribable joy, his faith rewarded in the knowledge that on the morrow, in the city of David as foretold by prophecy, the Christ child would be born. How great must have been the gratitude of all the believers when, at the going down of the sun, there was no darkness and when a new star appeared in the heavens! Approximately three decades later the risen Lord appeared in person to the more righteous of the Nephites.

Perhaps no scripture which we have is more spiritually impressive than that which records his brief ministry among them. The healing of the sick, blessing of little children, the calling of the twelve disciples with commission and authority to perform all necessary ordinances therewith—surely here was reason for optimism, for increased faith for the people collectively as well as individually.

Class Discussion Questions
1. What does being "of good cheer" mean to you? An international English dictionary defines "cheer" as that which gives comfort, gladness, encouragement, joy.
2. With this definition in mind, how important to family relationships is an atmosphere of gladness or good cheer within the home?
3. In your opinion who is most responsible for setting the tone of emotional atmosphere in the home? Discuss briefly.
4. What may a mother do to maintain an atmosphere of good cheer within the home? Name several things.
5. In what ways may the happy, positive attitude of one woman influence a neighborhood? A number of women were asked to name one specific thing or circumstance of a religious nature or otherwise which could inject a feeling of good cheer into an otherwise unhappy atmosphere. Their replies follow:

1. I suppose you might say that I am a fair-weather bird. Sunshine—just plain sunshine breaking through dark clouds can do more for my emotional attitude than almost anything.
2. I love people and I am always moved emotionally by the loyalty of friends. If I am discouraged or in an unhappy attitude of mind, the good wishes of a friend who has faith in me can lift me almost immediately into a happier mental climate.
3. The laughter of little children is a precious, contagious thing. It is to me the very essence of good cheer.
4. To observe a mother act with great courage although struggling against difficult obstacles fills me with admiration. But it also causes me to evaluate my own blessings. Invariably I am lifted from a state of apathy or self-pity to one of cheerful gratitude.
5. To be loved by someone is to me the great source of comfort and joy. That someone may be husband, child, parent, or a friend.
6. I believe that personal prayer has a greater influence upon my emotional attitude than anything else. Regardless of the situation or the depth of my discouragement, when I rise from my knees the world looks brighter.
7. To see or hear of one of our children performing in accord with the ideals and teachings of our home gives me a special lift of spirit.
8. Very simple things give me pleasure. Just watch me receiving a compliment or wearing a new dress!
9. To give of oneself by way of kindly service to others brings a special kind of personal satisfaction. This service always fills me with a sense of wellbeing and gladness.
10. To overcome a personal weakness and to be aware of a certain inner growth which results gives me an indescribable feeling of joy.

As members of the Church to which we belong we may rightly be of good cheer. In spite of problems and individual human errors, we may be happy and grateful because:

1. The Church operates through the delegated authority of the priesthood of God. Does any other church today have this?
2. We witness the miracle of change that the gospel brings into the lives of individuals.
3. We see the willingness of dedicated members of the Church to serve wherever and whenever called.
4. We know that the missionary program throughout the world is increasingly successful.
5. We observe an increased interest in genealogical research and temple work.
6. We see that material resources make possible the building of temples and churches throughout the world.

More may be added. Discuss briefly.

President Clark, who made an intensive study of the Christian Church from its beginning years to the present, refers to the time after the passing of the apostles of Christ when bickerings, jealousies, strife, and contentions grew among the people. This dissension, growing in intensity, developed within a few generations into what we know as the Great Apostasy.

A relevant excerpt by a Professor of Church History, Free Church College, Glasgow, Scotland, is used by President Clark in lesson 29 of the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study. In the words of Dr. Islay Burns, we read:

It is the year 101 of the Christian era. The last of the apostles is just dead. The rich evening radiance which in his solitary ministry had for thirty years lingered on the earth when all his companions were gone, has at last passed away, and the dark night settles down again. The age of inspiration is over—That peerless century which began with the birth of Christ, and closed with the death of John—and the course of the ages descends once more to the ordinary level of common time.

(Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 29.)

For the better part of two millenniums men groped about, spiritually stumbling one over the other, vainly seeking even a spark of spiritual light, until, on that beautiful spring morning, a century and a third ago [1954], a pillar of light above the brightness of the noonday sun gradually fell from the heavens till it enveloped a young boy in the woods praying mightily for spiritual light. As he looked up he saw two personages standing in the light above him, the Father and the Son: the morning of the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times had come, breaking the darkness of the long generations of spiritual night.

As in the creation light was to replace darkness, day was to follow night.

(The same reference.)

THE FOREGOING IMPORTANT HAPPENING IS INCLUDED IN THIS PARTICULAR LESSON BECAUSE OUT OF THAT DARKNESS CAME LIGHT FOR WHICH THE WHOLE EARTH HAS CAUSE AND ETERNALLY SHALL HAVE CAUSE TO BE GRATEFULLY GLAD.

In various lessons of the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study, President Clark speaks of situations and principles which give him hope and encouragement—beliefs for which he is grateful. They should make glad the hearts of all who believe.

Speaking of the final judgment he states: I believe that in his justice and mercy he will give us the maximum reward for our acts, give us all that he can give; and in the reverse, I believe that he will impose upon us the minimum penalty which it is possible for him to impose. (Ibid., lesson 36.)

It is a glorious thing to me to think of the freedom which we may have from the power of the evil one if we but live righteously in Christ Jesus. (Ibid.)

He is reported to have said, and of course this in jest, that Mormons have six senses: the five the ordinary mortals have and a sixth that enables him to believe Mormonism. I am more grateful than I can express for that sixth sense. All down through the ages there have been great bodies of humanity who could not believe the gospel. We are blessed that we know that life is purposeful. [Not all peoples of the world believe this.] We are blessed that we know that before we came we had an existence. We are blessed to know that we came to this earth which was created for the purpose of giving us the experiences of mortality. We are blessed that we know if we observe and keep the commandments of the Lord, our salvation and exaltation is assured. That is part of the sixth sense which we have. We are blessed in that we believe in God, a Personage who has manifested himself in our day, in the great vision of all time.... We are blessed with that testimony, that the Son was in the image of the Father, and that we also are created in his image. That is part of our blessing. We are blessed that God not only spoke in ancient times but that he also speaks today and has spoken, speaking with all of the definiteness and the specifications that he spoke to Israel at Mount Sinai. He does not speak alone in parables as he taught some of the multitudes.... He speaks definitely, I repeat, that all can understand. We are blessed in the faith that we have, the living, active faith which not alone inspires us to live as we should but which gives us power and strength. Our people have defined faith as the moving cause of all action. Faith is not trust, ; faith is a living, and I think an intelligent, force through which God himself performs his great work. We are blessed that, along with that faith, we have the priesthood, the Holy Priesthood of God. We are blessed, I was going to say, beyond all, in our knowledge, our testimony, our witness that Jesus is the Christ. And what a responsibility that knowledge brings to us that he came to earth as a sacrifice to answer for the Fall of Adam. How that was brought about, the Lord has not revealed. I am not sure that if he revealed it we finite minds could understand it. We are blessed with a knowledge that just as all down through history men and women have gone astray, so we know that the Church set up by the Christ and by the Apostles who followed him was not long upon the earth. A few centuries and it had become corrupt. It became an apostate church. This is our witness; this is our testimony. That blessing is one of the blessings that goes with our belief in Mormonism. Surely, mankind never was in a more distressed and uncertain condition than today, the day in which we live. Shall we say that God has stopped his voice, has closed his ears to our prayers, that he no longer cares for or loves us? Rationally, the conclusion to that question that he has would be absurd. So in this day of ours, a little over a hundred years ago, God came, he and his Son, Jesus Christ, and opened up through the Prophet Joseph Smith this last Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. We Mormons are blessed with a testimony and a witness of that. We are also blessed with a testimony and a witness that not only did the powers and the authority come to Joseph but he passed them on down, and today President McKay, as prophet, seer, and revelator, stands for the Church as the mouthpiece of God, and when he speaks through the inspiration of the Lord, as he will when he speaks to the Church, he proclaims what the Lord would have us know today. (Ibid., Lesson 45.)

Sometimes we overlook the affirmative, gladsome aspect of the gospel in relation to our everyday lives. The gospel is one of optimism, of hope, of glad tidings, of eternal progress. A thoughtful consideration of its principles will reveal that there is a rewarding, promised blessing, whether so stated or not, in all divine commandments. These blessings are inherent in obedience to the law. Perhaps the greatest of these is embraced in the statement of the Father to Moses, "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39.) Surely this, in essence, is saying to each individual of earth: "Lift up your head and be of good cheer" for the vexations of the flesh, the trials and anxieties of earth life are transitory, they are of brief duration, death is not the end of existence, immortality is assured and eternal life is attainable to all who will live the required commandments.... Men are, that they might have joy. (2 Ne. 2:25.)

For Home Doing Help yourself and your family to a home atmosphere of good cheer by reminding yourself and your family of the many blessings of the gospel and of the wonders of life.