[Vol32 | September 1945 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Bennion]

Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 3?Charity Envieth Not Dr. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, December 4, 1945
Objective: To show that the cultivation of the spirit of charity will rid our lives of envy.
ENVY works on the mind much as cancer does on the body. Instead of enriching the mind from without, it destroys it from within. Envy is a product of covetousness; it looks upon and desires that which is not its own, but upon that which belongs to another. Its ways are unholy evil: envy keeps one in misery by focusing his attention on that which he lacks; at the same time, it diverts one's energy from acquiring objects of one's desire in a profitable and legitimate way; and envy
causes one to dislike, and even to hate, the person who possesses that which he desires for himself.
Envy cannot be conquered by a frontal attack, by concentrating on the evil itself. To rid our lives of envy, we must look first for its cause, and second, to some power even greater than envy itself with which to erase it.
Envy has its roots in our own lack. It is an admission that we are not prepared to live a rich, soul-satisfying life.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 571
Living the gospel win enable us to overcome the feeling of lack in our lives and rob envy of its nourishment. Alma tells us that, if we will plant the seed of faith (in the word of God) in our hearts, and nourish it with patience until it takes root in us, that by and by we?... Shall pluck the fruit thereof, which is most precious, which is sweet above all that is sweet, and which is white above all that is white, yea, and pure above all that is pure; and ye shall feast upon this fruit even until ye are filled, that ye hunger not, neither shall ye thirst (Alma 32:42 also note verses 27-43). "Charity seeketh not her own." She rejoices in the success of others. She is aware, not of her own needs, but of the needs of others. Hers is the spirit of giving, of helping, of loving. A heart full of charity has no place in it for envy.