[Vol32 | September 1945 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field Authorized]

Notes TO THE FIELD Auxiliary Regional Meetings and Monthly Union Meetings Authorized COPIES of the following letter "Further Instructions Regarding Conventions and Union Meetings" over the signature of the First Presidency of the Church were mailed to Relief Society stake presidents. It is reprinted herewith for the information of Relief Society officers: July 16, 1945 To Church Officers, Dear Brethren and Sisters: Further Instructions Regarding Conventions and Union Meetings Because of limitations set on automotive travel, the General Church Authorities on January 17, 1942, speaking through the First Presidency, advised General Boards of Auxiliary Organizations to discontinue the holding of monthly Union meetings, Institutes, and Conventions. Later, the Government itself placed a limitation upon assemblies throughout the entire country. The suspension of Unions and Conventions, of course, made less effective direct contact of Stake Boards as such with wards and branch officers and teachers, but placed greater responsibility upon the ward and branch organizations. We commend the local officers and teachers upon their willingness, ability, and increased effort to guide and instruct the members of their respective organizations during this Page 538 critical war-time period. It is gratifying, indeed, to note how efficiently the quorums and auxiliary organizations have functioned notwithstanding the limitations and difficulties under which they have had to labor.
Occasional visits by General Board members to wards, stakes and districts requesting special help have contributed to increased efficiency in class work and in general spiritual uplift. A recent ruling by the Office of Price Administration, increasing the amount of gasoline for "A" coupons seems to point to such a relaxation with regard to the use of gasoline as will permit additional travel. Accordingly, we now authorize the holding of monthly priesthood leadership meetings that may include quorum members who may be especially invited to attend these meetings, monthly priesthood meetings, auxiliary regional meetings, and monthly union meetings where any such meetings may be held without violating the restrictions regarding the use of gasoline and rubber, and where the holding of such meetings will not interfere with quarterly conferences or other regularly established meetings. However, we do not, by these amended instructions, intend to authorize nor to countenance the holding of any of these meetings under circumstances which involve the violation of governmental rules and regulations regarding travel either by automobile or otherwise.
NOTES TO THE FIELD 539 In this connection, we point out that experiences during the exigencies of war indicate that the visits of stake board members to wards produce even better results than having local officers and teachers travel to a central place for a monthly union meeting. Youth Need Guidance And Supervision In moving thus early to lift the ban hitherto placed upon the holding of Conventions and Union meetings, we are obedient to the necessity for close cooperation and personal contact between general and stake officers, and the young people of the Church.
Every means that will foster such association must be made available wherever and whenever possible. The proper guidance of our children and youth is one of our paramount responsibilities. We are looking to those who represent the General Authorities in Priesthood and in Auxiliary work to discharge this responsibility in sincerity and prayerful devotion. Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand.
Even so. Amen.