[Vol32 | September 1945 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Theology The Journey Driggs]

LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 3?The Journey Westward Dr. H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, December 4, 1945
Objective: To trace the march of the saints westward, and to show that physical hardship can be more easily endured by those who are supported by the spirit of the Lord than by those who are without his spirit. WHEN the Lord set his hand to fulfill his promise and gather Israel, far-reaching were the results. Especially was this true in regard to the journey of the Mormon pioneers. To trace the westward march of the Mormon pioneers under the vigorous hand of President Brigham Young makes real the beginning scenes of God's promise to bring again Israel. A few comparisons of the journey of Israel of old with that of its modern counterpart are interesting. Under Moses were a people of one tongue, having the same customs and racial background that living as a nation brings. Brigham Young led a band of people whose roots were deep within no one nation but many, for the gospel call was to all the world. Ancient Israel was fed manna by the hand of the Lord; the pioneers of our day not only carried their own provisions, but, of necessity, had to plant en route for others to reap. It was to a land of milk and honey, of fertile soil and vineyards, that God sent his people in the days of yore; the modern Israelites for the cause of Zion had left homes of comfort to go into a wilderness, a vast terrain, which early trappers doubted could be made successfully to yield any crop. Had not the Lord planted in the hearts of these pioneers a faith in his word, the marvelous work of the latter days could never have been accomplished. Let it not be felt that suffering and pain were always the lot of the saints, though great indeed at times was their anguish. There was always a joy of spirit which blessed their efforts and made even the physical hardships lighter. To know the true heart of these souls is to know the perfect balance in life between material and spiritual values. With threats, day in and day out, from mobocrats and corrupt government officials, the saints learned to hold their peace and live. Page 
 ?SEPTEMBER 1945
For them it was the kingdom of God first, with the assurance that all else would be added.
Such a spirit made them build the Nauvoo Temple, knowing their joy within its walls was to be only a matter of months. In fact, this beautiful edifice was not dedicated until after the great majority of the saints was on the march, having left to some three hundred persons the satisfaction of presenting to the Lord, in ceremonial prayer, this most stately of structures then to be found upon the upper windings of the Mississippi River. Nor were these people without their music and dancing. It is recorded within the diaries of many that after the ordinances of the day had been performed in the House of the Lord, there was often a period of recreation. To cover, within the allotted words for this lesson, even a hundredth part of the story of the journey from Nauvoo to the valleys of the mountains would demand the most strict editing of the facts. It is hoped, therefore, that while presenting this interesting part of our history, the teacher will bring to the class, whenever possible, the diaries of pioneers, together with any of their personal effects long preserved and cherished from early days: a fancy pair of gloves, a piece of prized silver, an exquisite shawl, a hand-painted dish or other such loved appointments of the cultured home.
These things, somehow, found their way into the barrel bottoms, the odd box corners, and, often, an opportune opening in a wagon-bed.
Here was a people sensitive. Too, to the fine arts of living even in the midst of hard requirements which schooled the heart to forego the luxuries. It was the spirit of the Lord, day and night, that made possible the arduous journey across the plains. A firm belief in him and his word put courage in the step and faith in the heart.
Ever bear in mind this thought to understand fully the zeal with which the saints traveled on each different day with the hope for better things.
What are the significant facts of the pioneers' journey westward? In the dead of winter, the first of the saints crossed the Mississippi from Nauvoo to begin the trek. It was Wednesday, the 4th of February, 1846. Two days later ferrying began in earnest. At the same time as this march by land began, there set sail from the New York harbor the S. S. Brooklyn, to carry by sea around Cape Horn and on to San Francisco two hundred and thirty-five members of the Church.
Loaded within this vessel was also a good supply of all kinds of farming implements, tools for the carpenter, the blacksmith, and the wheelwright, together with the machinery for two gristmills and a sawmill. In addition, there were books on various subjects, a press with type and enough paper to start the printed word among the saints when they should arrive in their new-found home. Samuel Brannan was given the directions for this undertaking. It was to become a helping hand, extending material aid to the other companies of foot-weary emigrants whose weighted wagons, of necessity, had to load lightly the iron implements so needed to break the valley sod.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 567 To those who were to travel by land or sea came the word from President Young: When the time comes to start westward we will continue to gather until Israel is gathered: let there be no feelings about who shall go first; those who go first will lay the foundations for those who shall come after, and none will be neglected in their time (D. H. C. Vol. VIL, P- 575)- Most of the month of February was spent, by those preparing for the journey by wagons, at a camp on Sugar Creek, Iowa, while, day by day, additional families rolled in to swell the number of exiles.
Council meetings were held both at the camp and back in Nauvoo to lay plans for caring for the destitute and needy, many of whom had rushed off without proper supplies for the journey. President Young was prompted to give direct instructions to members of the camp as follows: I wish the brethren to stop running to Nauvoo, hunting, fishing, roasting their shins, idling away their time, and fix nose-baskets for their horses, and save their corn, and fix comfortable places for their wives and children to ride, and never borrow without asking leave, and be sure to return what was borrowed, lest your brother be vexed with you and in his anger curse you and then you would be cursed according to the power of the priesthood that brother possesses and evil will come upon you (D. H. C. Vol. VI, p. 586). In this winter outpost much suffering from the cold was endured.
Nine infants were born at Sugar Creek during those February days. Dr.
Richards recorded in his journal for the 19th: The wind blew steadily from the northwest accompanied by snow which fell to a depth of seven or eight inches, but much thawed as it fell, the storm was unceasing, and the evening was very cold (D. H. C. Vol. VI, p. 593).
March of 1846 came in like a lion, and in its extreme cold the camp at Sugar Creek broke up. The journey west began in earnest. All through this month and the month of April which followed, the steady stream of saints pushed over the heavy soil of Iowa with its grassy and rolling lands and deep ravines. By April 24, some one hundred and forty-five miles west of Nauvoo, a camp site was selected and named Garden Grove. Here, within a short period, a thriving village was set upon a clearing. Samuel Bent was named president with Aaron Johnson and David Fullmer as counselors to direct this camp of Israel. Here, many of the saints were to remain, build, and plant for those who were to come after. President Brigham Young saw the need of holding ground while extending ever westward the march to the mountains. By now the great body of the saints had left Nauvoo. May brought the return of spring to the prairies. By the 18th, President Young, in company with Parley P.
Pratt and others, found joy in the sights there were on every hand. Elder Pratt writes: One day riding about three or four miles through beautiful prairies, I came suddenly to some round and sloping hills, grassy, and crowned with beautiful groves of timber; while alternate open groves and forests seemed blended in all the beauty and harmony of an English park.
While beneath and beyond, on the west, rolled a main branch of the Grand River, with its rich bottoms of alternate forest and prairie.  As I approached this lovely scenery, several deer and wolves, being startled at the sight of me, abandoned the place and bounded away till lost from my sight and the groves.
Being pleased and excited at the varied beauty before me, I cried out "this is Mount Pisgah" (D. H. C. Vol. VI, p. 607).
With joy and the returning hope of the new season of the year, the saints set about building their second camp of major importance in Iowa.
Land was fenced and preparations begun for planting and home building. William Huntington, Ezra T. Benson, and Charles C.
Rich were chosen to take charge. But for President Young and his party the call was to press on. Over Indian trails and rude bridges they traveled until, on June 14, they arrived at the banks of the muddy Missouri not far from Council Bluffs.
They were then in the land of the Potawatomis, a friendly tribe whose chiefs were kind. By the 29th, companies were ferrying across the river. At Council Bluffs, President Young waited to gather in the long train of companies, for he was desirous of giving his people instructions.
When some five hundred wagons had wheeled in, their leader addressed the saints assembled. He warned them to be faithful to the Lord and press on.
Wicked men would seek to prevent them from doing so, he said, but the saints would find the place to which the Lord would have them go if they would heed his words.
Things now seemed right for the journey to continue, the summer months lay ahead and the Platte River with its green banks and shallow eddies lay flattened out some five hundred miles across the level plains of Nebraska.
Here was the life-line of shade and drink for the travelers.
Then came Wyoming and its Sweetwater leading high into the bracing air of the Rockies. Yes, the journey from here on gave a feeling of uplift and freedom in the heart. Then, too, it was June time of the year. On the closing day of this month came word from Washington. Captain James Allen of the United States Army arrived on the 30th to put an end to dreams. His credentials were for the raising of five hundred men to serve as volunteers in the war with Mexico, recently declared.
Strange that a government which would permit thousands of its citizens to be mobbed, now should turn and ask such a people for the flower of their manhood to fight a war.
Here was a chance for the saints to turn the other cheek, and this they did courageously.
Five hundred men stepped forth within a period of weeks to complete the longest march in the history of the United States infantry.
They not only wrote a chapter in the story of Mormon allegiance to the flag, but they were blessed to come through the war unharmed. "Detachments of the battalion who wintered at Pueblo...
Together with the main body of the Mississippi Saints entered the Salt Lake Valley, under direction of Captain James Brown," only five days after the arrival of the original company, bringing with them sixty wagons, one hundred head of fine horses and mules, and three hundred head of cattle.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 569
How strange the ways of the Lord! Had it been written that upon the arrival of most of the saints in the promised land, domestic animals and modern wains would be there to greet them, would not this have taken a test of faith to believe! But this did not come to pass, however, without sacrifices, for because of the weakened condition of the main body of the saints, with the able-bodied men gone, it became necessary to make preparations for the coming winter. It was a bitter season of snow these exiles spent at Winter Quarters.
Many lived in dugouts along the muddy bluffs not far from the Missouri River. At least the saints were consoled in the thought that they had been given permission to remain in that country, and had there found a true friend in Colonel Thomas L. Kane, who importuned the President of the United States in their behalf. Today, as solemn testimony of the bleak winter spent in Nebraska, there stands upon a hill in Florence a Mormon cemetery, within whose graves lie the bodies of many saints and those of infants born but to die of exposure in the cold.
With their faces toward the east they await the call of a brighter morn.
With the davming of the year 1847 came the voice of the Lord to:... President Brigham Young, at Winter Quarters, giving instructions for the guidance of the camps of Israel on their journeyings to the west. The Saints were to be organized into companies, with captains over hundreds, fifties and tens, as the case had been while journeying across Iowa.
These companies were to be presided over by a president and two counselors, under the direction of the Twelve Apostles, who were at the head of all the camps of Israel. The Saints were to enter into a covenant "to keep all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, p. 433). It was further the command of the Lord that departure for the West should be early in the spring in order to provide for the planting of crops. April 5, 1847, was the day when the march began. On up the north side of the Platte River it went, over the south pass of the Rocky Mountains, past Fort Bridger, west through Echo and East Canyons, then on to Big and Little Mountains which pointed to Emigration Canyon and the Valley of the Great Salt Lake.
Stories of the landmarks of the plains, the forts, the Indians, the wild beasts and the travelers met en route, go to make up this eventful trek, until, from a bed in a carriage. President Young raised himself to look over the valley in the heart of the mountains and say, "This is the place, drive on." It was in July, the month commemorating independence, that the saints arrived.
Grateful and happy they were to mark their day of freedom in a new land as the 24th, which, singularly enough, counted the exact number of years since the Angel Moroni first brought the restored gospel to the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part in the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. As early as six months after the organization of the Church the Lord, speaking through his prophet Joseph Smith, said the gathering of his elect "into one place upon the face of this land" must take place (Doc. And Gov. 29:8). Why are we as a people in a better position today to under stand the wisdom of the Lord in sounding such a call than were the few saints who were present when the revelation was given in September of 1830? In drawing out the answer to this question have the class reflect upon the world conditions today.
These may be listed. Read Doc. and Cov. sections 1, 38, 88, 93 in the Doc. and Cov. Commentary.
Found in these verses.
Read any section in Doc. and Cov. 33.
Have section 136 of the Doctrine and Covenants read with its introductory paragraph. Pay particular attention to the following parts of the revelation: verses 3, 6, 8, 10, 16, 20, 28, 31, 35, 36, 39. In the light of the lesson have these discussed.
3. What are some of the interesting facts you know of the journey to the Rocky Mountains? Read chapters 37, 38, 39 in Essentials in Church History.
The following questions may be used if needed for further class activity or they may be assigned for home study. What facts of human interest may be gained from the diaries of the pioneers? Read "Through Diaries of Long Ago," Children's Friend, July 1942.
Special Note: Be sure to make full use of other material in the July 1944 issue of The Relief Society Magazine for study in connection with the course in Church History.
(Note: On this map an error was made in locating Harmony. The town of Harmony, now known as Oakland, should be located on the Susquehanna River, just south of the state line of New York and Pennsylvania. See Essentials in Church History, map page 47.)