[Vol32 | September 1945 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Desert Ekman]

"Oh, Jimmy," she said. DESERT BORN Beatrice Knowlton Ekman Above a dark fir wood in Oregon, A yellow-lantern moon is hanging low; The deep, still waters to the ocean run, Their waters dimpling in the silver glow. To one remembering moon-drenched desert range, This forest land is beautiful.... But strange. Sixt Years J4go Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women OF All Nations" Home: It has been very wisely remarked that in order to fully appreciate the blessings and comforts of life, it is necessary for a person to be described of them for a time. Who can so much appreciate the cheerful home fireside, the association with parents and friends, as those who have been separated from them for a season, and called to face the hard, cruel world alone, away from the kind, cheerful faces and helping hands of the loved ones?
Home is the haven of rest to which we flee when the day's work is done What is so cheerful a sight as to see fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters surrounding the bright and cheerful hearth, each happy in the other's love, and all contented with their lot....
Where there is disorder and confusion the spirit of God cannot abide.... It is said, and reason and reflection corroborate the statement, that "order is heaven's first law." So also should it be the first law of the home. Note: With a tender remembrance of that magnificent woman Helen Hunt Jackson, of Colorado Springs, we record her demise.... Mrs.
Jackson wrote over the signature of H. H. And is widely known as a journalist of rare merit. Her last book is entitled "Ramona" and has been spoken of by critics and reviewers as the best novel by an American woman,...
During her two visits in this city we had many interesting conversations, and she expressed herself always as intensely interested in all religions, especially anything new or original and when it most concerned women.
Excerpts from a letter written from Almo, Cassia County, Idaho, by Hannah T. King: I have a few words to say about this remote region....