[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | September | Issue: 5 | Title: WOMEN IN THE WORLD'S FAIR. | Author: Unknown]

WOMEN IN THE WORLD'S FAIR.

   ﻿Mrs. Potter Palmer President of the Ladies
World’s Fair Commission has returned from
Europe where she has been working up an in-
terest among women, in regard to representation
in the World’s Fair of 1893, she has been received 
with honors, and has succeeded in arousing
enthuiasm abroad and since her return home has
called a meeting of the lady Commissioners to be
held in Chicago early in September.
   Mrs. Margaret B. Salisbury Chairman of the
Utah commission is absent from home and Miss
Keogh, alternate will go on to represent the inter-
ests here and Mrs.Whanla of Ogden who is also a
Lady Commissioner, will leave for Chicago at the
same time to be present at the meeting and to get
information concerning what is expected to be
done here by the women of the Territory.
   This Fair is a mammoth enterprise and what
little such a small Territory can do, may seem
insignificant but, if a united effort is made by
the ladies here something creditable can surely
be accomplished. It is high time to begin, and
any one who can arouse the energies of those 
skilled in the various trades, industries and pro-
fessions to commence special articles at once with
a view to putting them on exhibition will be do-
ing a public good. There are many women in- 
genious and skilled in certain departments of
work, who need encouragement and perhaps 
means to get material to work with, all these
things should be talked of in the locality where
such persons reside, and if necessary application
made to those who have the matter in hand, and
the proper assistance rendered; as this is not
merely a personal affair, but one in which all
have a general interest
   The Territorial Legislature will surely make a
generous appropriation for the women of Utah,
who are really deserving of something in a pub-
lic way considering all the taxes they pay without
representation. Every facility ought to be
afforded to those, who are helping in this laud-
able undertaking. Men and women who have
chosen Utah for a home should be as proud of
what can be accomplished in this new country
even though it may be a little crude, as those in
older States and countries where greater progress
in the arts, sciences, professions and industries
has been arrived at.
   The women and girls throughout this Territory
should respond to the invitation extended to pre-
pare something for the coming Fair, and begin
without delay as there is no time to be lost.
Mrs. Salisbury will be at home soon and will call
a meeting of the Committee which consists of
about twenty-five ladies, and make more definite
arrangements concerning what measures will be
taken to reach all the outside counties. Mean-
time talk up this matter whenever an opportunity
offers among the ladies and consider what can be


done individually. The silk culture and manu-
facture might be one of the important branches of
development in the Utah exhibit.
   We intend to keep this matter before the
ladies and inform them from time to time con-
cerning the Woman’s Fair Commission; probably
before another paper is issued there may be
something more tangible to present in regard to
what postive steps can be taken to forward the
enterprise in Utah.


[Column 1]
