EDITORIAL . Motto  Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. V. OCTOBER, 1918. No. 10. LIFE AND THE SCHOOL. Dedicated to the College Class of 1918, in Brigham Young University. Not long since I looked into the faces of a Ready to hundred collegiate graduates, robed with Grapple with symbolic caps and gowns, and a-flutter with Life. rolls of engraved parchment, setting forth the degrees and honors with which their alma mater had endowed them. Thought leaped across the long pathway of their school years, and pictured the graded forms, the yearly procession of advancement, the tabulated system and regulated order which marked the hours and subjects. Eagerly they had striven, the visible symbols of achievement always ready at the season's end, and now, their school course ended, with pomp and circumstance they triumphed over youth and time, ready at last to grapple with life itself. Ready, did I say? Human limitations provide periods and symbols for immature minds, but practical men and women learn soon from contact with the infinite. Life has no graduation but death. Honors Life's are unused tools; rewards are shrouded in Graduation. the gall of disappointments; results are invisible to tear-blinded eyes, and real achievement never halts for stated periods of self-glorification, nor 
 hears aught but a neighbor's bitter criticism, or the inner deprecating voice urging to a rarer effort, a more perfect result. One finite experience ends in the whirling center of a more turgid maelstrom, and peace is too often found to be but the price of sordid selfishness. Youth longs for tabulated results, listens hungrily for the triumphal blast of recognized achievement. The parade of power, the satisfying symbols of superior merit, are long coveted by finite immaturity. Yet life plunges her youthful school graduates at once into ice-cold trenches, baptizes them lustily with gaseous fires, and only the rarely brave, the spiritually clear-visioned, recover balance, and carry on triumphantly till the death graduation. Eternity in mortality  that is the lesson life The Lesson spreads before the properly matriculated of Life. life-student. When the college doors close upon such graduates, the sheepskins will be hidden away, while sinewy brown or lily-white hands grasp musket, grenade, wheel, plow, pen, scalpel or ferrule; broom, needle, red-crossed cap and apron, cradle-bar or washboard  and trained minds will con the difficult lessons of daily unrewarded toil, while youth and maiden go over life's top, hand in hand or single file and alone, to face the enemy of men's souls and to wring death's final and only graduation. God sends his Spirit at times to comfort us with silent proof of his sweet approval. Life holds before our hopeful eyes this goal, that achievement; but when our weary steps have gained the summit, our hands have clasped the symbol of achievement, the pain of accomplishment has been so great, the alluring summits up and beyond are so far, so unattainable that we cast aside the present result as worthless toys upon life's shore, and hold out reaching hands for greater rewards, more definite results. With maturer apprehension, and wiser apperContent and ceptive powers, life-students will learn to be Courageous content and courageous, no matter where Providence may grade them. On the gory field of noisy battles, in the dim halls of patient research, in the crowded mart of business strife, on the long slopes of ripening fields, in the breaking toil of typing office-work, beside the quiet loom of daily domestic labor, poised minds, ripe intelligences, will find the hidden symbols of passing victories over selfishness, and will sense the mighty angelic tabulation. Up from the graves of all yesterdays let Let Angels morning angels of hope and faith arise to acof Hope and company each today with shield and buckler Faith Arise. of willing strength. As the sound of striking bell and marching rhythm fades with all EDITORIAL. 591 lesser and greater school memories, let the invisible call of instant duty, the interrupted march of regular habit bring conviction that only God may matriculate our souls and only eternity encompass our commencement. "TWO THOUSAND GOSPEL QUOTATIONS." Seldom have the Latter-day Saints been furnished with a more comprehensive guide to scriptural passages and spiritual help than is given in a book just published called, Two Thousand Gospel Quotations, from the Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price, compiled by Henry H. Rolapp. So simple is the arrangement, so crowded are the references, that it becomes at once a clarifying medium to students of the gospel. We hope the sisters of the Relief Society will avail themselves of this excellent work by placing at least one copy of it in each Relief Society library. It is on sale at the Deseret News Book Store. "TOBACCO AND HUMAN EFFICIENCY." The Magazine is delighted to recommend this book on tobacco, just issued by Dr. Frederick J. Pack, our own Latter-day Saint scientist and teacher. The Church authorities have published this book, and it is desired that every home shall possess a copy of the life-giving facts and statistics found in its pages. The deadly evil of tobacco should be familiarly known in all its scientific aspects to every mother and grandmother in Israel. This book, Tobacco and Human Efficiency, can also be purchased from the Deseret News Book Store. EXCHANGE BUREAU. We wish our friends who have dried fruit or dried vegetables to dispose of. would make use of this free bureau, that those who are desirous of securing same may know where to apply. Guide Lessons. : i LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in November. WAR AND THE ART OF WAR AMONG BOOK OF MORMON PEOPLES. It is disappointing to realize that the sword of Laban, used to obtain the sacred records that a nation might not perish in unbehef, should become the pattern of a sword used by the Nephites to defend themselves from the Lamanites. Yet such is the fact. The methods of warfare among the Nephites, rather primitive from our standpoint, grew more complex as time went on, until in Moroni we have a past master in the art of organizing and making war. Living today when all the brain and brawn of man has been brought together to take life, the mode of warfare of the Nephites and Lamanites presents many singular phases; but singular or otherwise, it was most deadly in its effect. They appear to have known nothing of gunpowder or high explosives of any sort, not to mention electricity or gas or other means common today. They used weapons of war made from metals they found in the earth: the sword, the javelin, bows, arrows, stones, slings and cimiters. These are some of the weapons named; there were doubtless others similar to bows, arrows, and slings, but not identical with them. Even in their last battle, Mormon tells us in the 6th chapter and 9th verse, that the sword, bow, arrow and ax were used by the Lamanites in their deadly onslaught. Both the Nephites and Jaredites, and finally the Lamanites made shields and helmets to protect the vital parts of the body, as did the warriors of Europe during the middle ages. But the equipment seemed to make little difference so far as results are concerned. Rude or otherwise, the Jaredites managed to exterminate themselves. The same fate followed the Nephites and came very nearly being the fortune of the Lamanites. How the words of Mormon reiterate and repeat themselves as he says: "Lamah had fallen with his ten thousand; and Gilgal had fallen with his ten thousand; and Limhah had fallen with his ten thousand;and Joneam had fallen with his ten thousand; and Camenihah, and Moronihah, and Antionum, and Shiblom, and Shem, and Josh, had fallen with their ten thousands each" (Mormon 6:14). GUIDE LESSONS. 593 In the Book of Ether we find the word million in relation to the slain. These ancient people were not so much noted for making trenches and dugouts for the protection of their armies as they were prone to build forts and breastworks. They built high walls which they picketed on top, taking the soil from the outer side so that a vast ditch or moat was made. This too reminds us of methods of warfare employed in the middle ages in Europe. Anyone who has ever been in continental Europe, will recall how familiar isthe sight of a wall, now sometimes included within the city, as the city has outgrown its former limits. These walls today are largely in ruin, yet serve to tell the story of a by-gone day. Book of Mormon people had many men of military distinction. From a comparatively large group we shall mention only Teancum, who always challenges admiration because of his valor; and his strict code of military honor; constantly we see the picture of him rushing ahead of the line of battle, seeking out the leaders of the Lamanites that he might slay them. With his own hands he slew Morianton, Amalickiah and Ammaron, yet in it all, how admirably just he was! Judging from all standpoints, we should perhaps conclude that Moroni was their greatest military genius. "Mormon," says Elder George Reynolds, in the Story of the Book of Mormon, "reorganized their armies, compelled more stringent discipline, introduced new tactics, developed a greatly superior system of fortifications, built towers and citadels, and altogether placed the defensive powers of the comimonwealth on a new and stronger footing." We wish now to turn to some of the descriptions of those battles that resulted in the extermination of both the Jaredites and the Nephites  this ancient history that reminds us of nothing so much as modem days. "And it came to pass when Coriantumr had recovered from his wounds he began to rememlber the words which Ether had spoken unto him. He saw that there had been slain by the sword nearly two million of his men and he began to sorrow in his heart; yea, there had been slain two million of mighty men and also their wives and their children (Ether 15:7). In the Russian-Japanese war we were content to talk of hundreds of thousands among the slain, but now at last we, too, have made the past, the barbarous past, as many were wont to call it, our own, so that now we only speak of millions. Lincoln L. West, a member of the Red Cross official observation party, sent under military escort to the trenches this spring, returns to tell us that France has lost one and a half million men and has one and a half milion men wounded. 
 Aagin, in Ether 15:15, we are told: "And it came to pass that when we were all gathered together. every one to the army which he would, with their wives and their children; both men, women, and children being armed with weapons of war, having shields, and breastplates, and head-plates, and being clothed after the manner of war, they did march forth one against another, to battle; and they fought all that day. and conquered not." We have not yet heard of children being armed in the various countries, now at war; we have heard of mere youths forming component parts of the armies, but children have been direct as well as indirect victims of this war in all the countries overrun by the Central Powers. The Russian women actually entered the conflict, but that is not nearly so significant, from the standpoint of women, as that over seven hundred thousand women have lost their lives directly through this war, having been victims of the submarine, bombs and shrapnel. Never before have women been engaged behind the lines as they are today. In the second epistle of Mormon to his son Moroni we read, concerning the last wars of the Nephites: "And now I write somewhat concerning the sufferings of this people. For according to the knowledge which I have received from Amoron, behold, the Lamanites have many prisoners, which they took from the tower of Sherrizah; and there were men, women and children. "And the husbands and fathers of those women and children they have slain; and they feed the women upon the flesh of their husbands, and the children upon the flesh of their fathers; and no water, save a little, do they give unto them. "And notwithstanding this great abomination of the Lamanites, it doth not exceed that of our people in Moriantum. For behold, many of the daughters of the Lamanites have they taken prisoners; and after depriving them of that which was most dear and precious above all things, which is chastity and virtue; "And after they had done this thing, they did murder them in a most cruel manner, torturing their bodies even unto death; and after they have done this, they devour their flesh like unto the wild beasts, because of the hardness of their hearts; and they do it for a token of bravery. "O my beloved son, how can a people like this, that are without civilization; "(And only a few years have passed away, and they were a civil and a delightsome people;) "But O my son, how can a people like this, whose delight is in so much abomination, "How can we expect that God will stay his hand in judgment against us?" (Moroni 9:7-14.) GUIDE LESSONS. 595 To be sure, as yet we have no knowledge of human flesh being fed to prisoners, but we know that disease germs have been injected into their blood, and it has been said that women have been nailed to doors within churches, after the brutes into whose hands they have fallen have accomplished their wicked purposes. Nothing is clearer than that the Germans have no regard for the chastity of women. Their abominable edicts witness this fact, as also their most vile practices. Many magazine articles of recent date tell us of the outrages perpetrated on the wonmanhood of Belgium and France. The number of German babies to which French and Belgian women have given birth is one of the ugliest and most serious problems of the war. Thus history repeats itself. Thus it would seem that where wickedness flourishes, civilization must sooner or later perish from the earth. The Italian armies are taxed to the utmost to protect the art treasures of centuries, of the city of Venice, from the invading armies. We grieve today because our civilization is threatened by the wicked and bloodthirsty, and those who seek to make conquest of the earth. The history of, the Nephites, Jaredites and Lamanites combined, must go far to prove that apart from righteousness no civilization can hope to be permanent; that sooner or later the coveteous, angry passions of men will assert themselves in bloody battle, seeking to destroy all things worthy, with blood flowing as rivers, and nations dying or suffering to the very verge of extinction. I QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. What use did the Nephites make of the sword of Laban to assist in their national defense? \ 2. Compare war equipment of the present time with that of the peoples of the Book of Mormon. 3. Show that difference in the kind of equipment made no difference as to final results. 4. What did the Nephites and Jaredites wear to protect the vital parts of their bodies? 5. Show how the invention of gun powder and high explosives has changed methods of defense from the breastword to the trench. 6. How have children been made direct victims of this present war? 7. Discuss the extent to which they have been made indirect victims through starvation. 
 8. How have women been made direct victims of this war? How have they been made indirect victims? 9. Show how the chastity of woman in Book of JMormon times was violated just as it has been today. 10. What are we led to conclude will be the fate of any civilization, no matter how powerful and magnificent, when the people of the earth become wicked? LESSON n. Work and Business. Second Week in November. LESSON HI. Genealogy. ADDED OR SURNAMES THEIR ORIGIN. (See Chapter 9, Surname Book.) teachers' outline. Definition.  A surname is a permanent name added to the personal name. When families emerge into society, personal names are insufficient for identification. (a) Personal names are usually first compounded. (b) A nickname is often added, and if it becomes permanent and is handed down it then becomes a surname. (c) Sometimes people are surnamed for their place of residence. (d) Surnames come from offices or professions. (e) From trades and occupations. The Hebrew Customs. (a) Usually tribal surnames. (b) Place names. (c) Nicknames. LESSON statement. A surname is a permanent name added to the personal name. A surname is often the tribal or family name and is adopted from varying causes, as we shall see presently.