[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | February | Issue: 16 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: Unknown]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	A NEW magazine, entitled Woman’s
Progress, is soon to be started in Phila-
delphia.
	FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE has started a
health crusade amongst the villages of
Buckingham, assisted by the County Coun-
cil Technical Instruction Committee.
	A BILL granting township suffrage to
women has been introduced in the Iillinois
Legislature.
	THE petition from Mrs. Armenia S. White
and others for municipal woman suffrage
has been presented in the New Hampshire
Legislature, and referred to the Judiciary
Committee.
	MISS EMILY C. WOODRUFF, of Little
Valley, N. Y., was ordained on Feb. 9th,
as pastor of the Congregational church of
that place. She has been conducting ser-
vices in the Little Valley church since the
death of her husband some months ago.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE wife of Renan will superintend the
publication of the remaining volumes of
his "Histoire du Peuple d' Israel." He
also committed to her care a portfolio of
notes dating back as far as 1845, which he
counted of special value.
	MRS. LYNDE CRAIG was recently admit-
ted to practice before the Supreme and other
courts of California. She is the second Wo-
man to be admitted to the bar of that State,
Mrs. Clara Foltz being the first. The
course of the Hastings Law School usually
occupies three years, but Mrs. Craig passed
her examination before the Supreme Cotirt
at the end of one and one-half years of
study. In a class of twenty-seven she
stood at the head of the sixteen who passed.
Mrs. Craig is an active member of the
Pacific Coast Woman's Press Association,
is the historian of the Law Club, historian
of the Revolution, and was for ten years a
teacher in the Girl's High School. Last
November she became the wife of Scipio
Craig, the editor of the Redlands Citro-
graph. At the time when Mrs. Craig pass-
ed her examination, Mr. Craig was attend-
ing the convention of the Editorial Associ-
ation as its president, and when he received
the news of her success, he immediately
telegraphed her the congratulations of all
the assembled editors.


