[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 86 | Special Feature | The Guidance of the Holy Spirit Marion | G. Romney]
THE GUIDANCE OF THE HOLY SPIRIT Read the New Testament. Become more familiar with the teachings of Jesus and the apostles. Begin with your children while they are exclusively under your care and continue as long as you have any influence upon them to impress upon their minds and precious souls the grandeur of the concepts of the gospel. Get them to understand and appreciate that they are individually, in very deed, the children of God; members of his eternal family; that they came from him; that they have the potential to return to his presence and be like him; that earth life is but a proving ground for higher spheres; that "men are, that they might have joy" (not the pleasures of this world); and that "wickedness never was happiness." Get these truths imbedded in your minds. If you will do that, you will have an anchor that will carry you over the roughest passages in your lives. I remember on one occasion riding with President Stephen L Richards to a conference in Idaho in an automobile. As we drove along, we were considering means to encourage the people more effectively to live the gospel. He expressed his convictions that people would be more diligent in living the gospel if they could but get the true concept of its principles in their minds and appreciate their implications. I have often thought about this statement, and I believe it is true. I am further persuaded that Latter-day Saint parents can, if they will, help their children to learn and appreciate these principles. This will require parents them- 


 selves to become more familiar with the word of God. I counsel you to study and teach your children from the standard works of the Church. The Church, through its Correlation Program, will give you some specific help in this endeavor during the coming year. We have already pointed out that, in addition to restoring the truths of the gospel, the Lord has given us, again in this dispensation, the gift of the Holy Ghost to keep us in the straight and narrow path. This is the "Holy Spirit" of our text. My final counsel to you this morning is to learn to recognize and follow the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Without such guidance, even a knowledge of the word of God is unfruitful. You will remember Paul's statement to the Corinthians that " the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life' (II Corinthians 3:6), and how the Lord said, "... And if ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach" (D&C 42:14). In Nephi's record between the account of his father's vision of the tree of life and the revealed interpretation which came to him of that vision, he said: And it came to pass after I, Nephi, having heard all the words of my father, concerning the things which he saw in a vision, and also the things which he spake by the power of the Holy Ghost... I, Nephi, was desirous also that I might see, and hear, and know of these things, by the power of the Holy Ghost [he wanted the knowledge himself, by the power of the Holy Ghost] which [he said] is the gift of God unto all those who diligently seek him. For he that diligently seeketh shall find; and the mysteries of God shall 90 be unfolded unto them by the power of the Holy Ghost, as well in these times as in times of old, and as well in times of old as in times to come; wherefore, the course of the Lord is one eternal round (I Nephi 10:17, 19).. Moroni, after promising the honest readers of The Book of Mormon that if they "... Would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ... With a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ;' he would manifest the truth of it unto them, "by the power of the Holy Ghost," added this significant statement: "And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things' (Moroni 10:4-5). The Prophet Joseph seems to have felt that the gift of the Holy Ghost was the most distinguishing characteristic of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. In 1839, he, with Elias Higbee, went to Washington, D. C. To seek redress from the Government for the wrongs suffered by the saints in Missouri. Writing back to Nauvoo, they said: In our interview with the President [he is talking about Van Buren, the President of the United States], he interrogated us wherein we differed in our religion from the other religions of the day. Brother Joseph said we differed in mode of baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. We considered that all other considerations were contained in the gift of the Holy Ghost (DHC IV, page 42). Now I have cited these several scriptures at some length to emphasize the availability, the reality, and the practicability and the importance of the gift of the Holy Ghost. Each of us was directed to receive that gift when we were confirmed members of the Church. Properly cultivated and developed, this gift is of inestimable value. The Holy Ghost is a revelator. «.. He will guide you into all truth " (John 16:13). He will bring all things to our remembrance and show us things to 'come. He will enlighten our minds, quicken our understandings, and increase our intelligence. I can think of no aid to parents in the training of children equal to the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Among his gifts are faith, discernment, knowledge, judgment, and wisdom. The fruit of the Holy Spirit includes virtue, diligence, humility, hope, patience, kindness, charity, love, composure, peace, godliness, and joy. As we contemplate the virtue of these gifts and fruits, let me, by the way of caution, emphasize the fact that there is nothing spectacular, magical, or fanatical about the working of these gifts. Under their influence one _ behaves perfectly normally. They do not excite. They calm and comfort. Their influence is as natural and refreshing as a gentle breeze. "The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof,' said Jesus to Nicodemus, ''but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit" (John 3:8). The following lines of Parley P. Pratt suggest to my mind at least what I'm trying to convey "THE GUIDANCE OF THE HOLY SPIRIT to you concerning the nature and influence of the Holy Spirit. As the dew from heaven distilling Gently on the grass descends And revives it. But I suppose there is no point in my trying to explain further the influence of that Spirit. Only you who have had your souls enveloped by the influence of the Holy Spirit can realize the joy and peace of conscience it affords. Now, how is one to come by these precious gifts and fruits? The Lord has said, "the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith..."", (D&C 42:14). Seek the guidance of the Holy Spirit, sisters. Seek it by faith and by prayer, by study, and by righteous living. Learn what the scriptures say about it, including, particularly, the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. -Develop a desire for it. Live worthy of it and cultivate its companionship. Take it for your guide. If you do so, your rewards will be eternal; for when the Savior comes in his glory and the parable of the ten virgins is fulfilled,... They that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived... Shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day. And the earth shall be given unto them for an inheritance; and they shall multiply and wax strong, and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation. For the Lord shall be in their midst, and his glory shall be upon them, and he will be their king and their lawgiver (D&C 45:57-59). That we may all, with our children, abide that great day, I humbly pray. 91 Mother-Do You Know? Robert J. Matthews, Editor Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Department of Education That the Church has a week-day religious, cultural, and social offering for your sons and daughters while they are in high school and also when they go to college? That this program now functions in practically all of the fifty States and in five foreign countries, with a total enrollment of over 111,000 students? Next year it will be even more widespread. That wonderful opportunities will come to your sons and daughters when they enroll in the program? They will have specialized religious instruction and constant opportunity to mingle, make friendships, and work in a variety of activities with other young Latter-day Saints. That Seminaries and Institutes of Religion are under the direction of the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve? All instructors are members of the Church and are selected because of their knowledge of the gospel, ability to teach, desire to work with young people, and general faithfulness. That a Latter-day Saint Seminary is organized for spiritual guidance and instruction of young people of high school age? Students participate in scripture and Church history studies, singing, praying, giving talks and reports, leadership training, plus occasional parties and outings. That Latter-day Saint Institutes of Religion are organized near college and university campuses to give college students a spiritual, social, and cultural setting with a Latter-day Saint flavor? They are not a repetition of Seminary, but advanced courses are offered in scripture, Church history, leadership training, and other activities particularly suited to the college level. Deseret Clubs and Lambda Delta groups enrich the social and cultural experiences of Institute students. That there is no tuition charge for Seminary or Institute — only a small activity and book fee? Graduation diplomas and special certificates are granted to those who complete the prescribed courses. That there need be no loss of scholastic achievement because of religious activity? Seminary and Institute students often become the academic and social leaders in high school and college classes. That attendance at Seminary and Institute encourages increased Church activity, trains young people for leadership, and builds testimonies of the gospel? That a larger percentage of young people who attended Seminary, Institute, and Church Schools go on missions and marry in the temple than do they who do not attend these classes? The percentage increases in proportion to the number of classes taken.