The Relief Society Magazine Both Mother and I have had great pleasure in reading the Magazines. I love the cover of the October issue (Autumn in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah, by L. Paul Roberts). It shows my kind of country and reminds me greatly of North Wales. Mother was delighted upon seeing her ''Trifle'' recipe (page 768), and I loved the poem ''Beauty'"' (by Rowena Jensen Bills). —Miss Mavis Owen Tenby, Pemrokeshire Wales Our ward has used the recipes for pumpkin cake and pumpkin cookies (October 1964), and we have enjoyed them very much. Also, I especially enjoyed the lovely poem by Eva Willes Wangsgaard ''Autumn Color After the Rains.'' We had our first autumn rain last night, and I thought the poem just fit the way everything looked this morning. Also, thanks for the Scotch recipes in the October issue. My family really enjoyed the Stroganoff recipe in the March 1963 Magazine. —Lucile M. Weenig Provo, Utah I commend the Magazine highly for its excellence. It is beautiful, useful, and uplifting always. I have loved it and used it since I was a girl and shared my mother's copies. My own daughter enjoys mine now. I can hand it to her without having yet opened it, and never have to worry about what she will find within its covers. —Bernice S. Skinner Holbrook, Arizona I can't begin to tell you how much I enjoy the Magazine and look forward to receiving it each month. Many times the stories and articles have helped me with their messages. —Joan P. Sprague Miami, Florida Uf I am a Latter-day Saint foreign student studying here under the United States Government East-West Student Exchange Program. When I read the article "'So Grateful That You Taught Me"' (by Edith S. Elliott), in the October Magazine, my heart filled with gratitude for the uplifting and wonderful message of the article. I felt that it had special application to me. —Miss Aiona Fakalata Honolulu, Hawaii (Student from the Tonga Islands) In reference to the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and especially for the article on making parchment stationery (by Peggy Tangren), I want to say "Thanks so much."' Today, I took a walk along an _ often-traveled route where the scenery is weeds, vines, and a few wild flowers. When I stooped to pick one particularly beautiful bloom, I decided to see if I could start my collection of flowers and grasses to press for stationery. With my eyes thus opened, I suddenly beheld the beauty I never could have seen otherwise. My heart is overflowing as I thank you for helping me to see the beauty that is always there. —Joyce L. Canham Manassas, Virginia I wish to express my gratitude for the support my family receives from The Relief Society Magazine. It has helped to build faith within each family member, five girls and a boy and the father and mother. It has also enriched their literary world. I sent a subscription to my daughter at the Brigham Young University. They have a very spiritual Relief Society organization in her ward there. She is a_ visiting teacher. ——-Beth Milner Raines Eugene, Oregon BI Relief Society 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year, foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.