[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 84 | Special Feature | Oakland | Temple Dedicated]
[Oakland Temple Dedicated]
The Oakland Temple, at Oakland, California, was dedicated on November 17, 18, and 19, 1964. Each day two sessions were held and at each session the Dedicatory Prayer of President McKay was offered. The majestic temple stands on Temple Hill overlooking the vast blue waters of the Pacific. The fifteenth temple built by the Latterday Saints commands a view of the Golden Gate, both of the great bridges, and the ships of many nations passing in and out of the harbor. The temple has been called "A House for Eternity," and the symbolic purposes of its erection have been expressed as a promise of eternal progression. ©akland Cemple Dedicated The dedication of the Oakland Temple brings to a total of five the temples which have been started and completed during the thirteen years that President David O. McKay has been President of the Church. President David O. McKay, at ninety-one, arose to "supreme spiritual heights" during the dedication ceremonies as he spoke of the sacred mission of the Church in these latter-days, and the privileges and responsibilities of those who enter the temples of the Lord. In the dedicatory prayer, President McKay expressed gratitude for the ancient and restored gospel and the unlimited possibilities offered for eternal growth and development. An excerpt follows: We are grateful that Thou didst send Thy Beloved Son into the world to reveal unto humanity Thine existence, and to establish on earth the way that men should go in order to come back into Thy presence as Thy sons and daughters. We are grateful that Thou didst restore the Gospel in this Dispensation by Thine own appearance, and the appearance of Thy Beloved Son to the Prophet Joseph Smith.... We are thankful for the message which he gave to the whole world that Thou dost live; that Thou dost hear and answer prayer; that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world, and that through Him death has been conquered and the soul of man set free from death.... Now, O God, our Heavenly Eternal Father, the faithful membership of Thy Church through love for Thee and Thy children, have erected to Thee by tithes and offerings this Holy House in which shall be performed ordinances and ceremonies essential to the happiness, salvation, and exaltation of Thy children living in mortality and in the Spirit World. Accept of our offering, hallow it by Thy Holy Spirit, and protect and guard it by Thy Power. With this prayer, we dedicate our lives to the establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth for the peace of the world and to Thy Glory forever, in the name of Thy Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, Amen.