[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 105 | General Feature | Heart Fund Dollars — A Hope for | Better Life]

IN MEMORIAM

July 24, 1885 - December 4, 1964

Vilate Romney Ivins, wife of President Antoine R. Ivins, of the First Council of Seventy, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, December 4, 1964. She was a daughter of Orson Douglas and Emma Phillips Romney, and from her girlhood she was active in Church organizations, serving as teacher and officer in Sunday School, The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, Primary, and Relief Society. She was a missionary in New Zealand while her parents presided over that mission, and was in charge of the auxiliary organizations in the Mexican Mission while her husband presided there. She directed the MIA program in Hawaii while Elder Ivins was manager of the Church plantation. She gave outstanding service in Relief Society as a ward and a stake secretary-treasurer.

In the various communities in which President and Sister Ivins have lived, she has made a gracious and inviting home for her husband, with the doors always open to welcome friends, kindred, and visiting Church officials. Sister Ivins was a beloved neighbor, discerning, kind, and helpful. Her tenderness and sympathy in times of need endeared her to many. Among those who remember her with an especially warm appreciation are the hundreds of successful and useful men and women who came under her influence in their early years.

The General Board and Relief Society members throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to President Ivins and to other family members. May the influence and the memory of this lovely woman be a continuing blessing to them.


A Living Faith

Mabel Jones Gabbott

There is no peace except within the soul
Divinely tuned to God and earth and sky,
Whose pulses leap to meet each day, to try
With nobler effort to achieve each goal.
There is no joy except the happiness
That comes from deep within. To lose oneself
In serving others will ensure a wealth
Of pure content, of lasting loveliness.

There is no promise of security
Without a living faith in God's supremacy.
Oh, help us to believe and kneel and pray,
And learn acceptance of thy gracious way;
Unless we love thee, and our fellow men,
There is no peace, and all our search is vain.

104
