[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 94 | Fiction | Among Strangers Second Prize Story Lael | J. Littke]
[Among Strangers Second Prize Story Lael J. Littke]
[PHOTOGRAPH: Black and white image of a classroom scene with students seated at desks and an instructor at a blackboard, with another man in a suit standing to the right]
[PHOTOGRAPH]
[ILLUSTRATION]
Among Strangers

Lael J. Littke

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Second Prize-winning Story
Annual Relief Society
Short Story Contest

WEARILY Janet leaned her head against the window of the train and watched the scenery glide by in the moonlight. The children had finally all gone to sleep on their makeshift beds, but she felt too tired and nervous to sleep. She wished she had someone to talk to, someone to whom she could recount the events of the day. But even if some of the other passengers were still awake, to whom would she talk? To the large lady in the seat ahead of Cheryl and Danny, who had changed into a bright red muumuu for the night? To the almost toothless elderly man in the seat behind her and Susan, who wore a battered cowboy hat and scuffed boots and who now filled the dimly lit coach with his exuberant snores? To the girl in the black sweater and pleated skirt two seats behind? Or to any of the people on the long

coach? No, there was no one here to whom she cared to talk. These people were strangers and their strangeness was a formidable barrier. They were different, they didn't believe as she did, they didn't live and speak and do as she did. During the day some of them had stopped to admire Susan, but Janet had not encouraged them to linger and chat.

If only her mother were here, Janet would laugh with her over the mental picture she had had before the trip started, of herself and the children sitting quietly and sedately watching the scenery all the way to New York. Well, the children evidently had not shared that picture, and they refused to be either quiet or sedate. Five-year-old Cheryl complained of boredom and traipsed after endless drinks from the tiny spout which gave forth icy water. Danny rocketed around the coach

94

[ILLUSTRATION]

all day despite her efforts to control him. She supposed the other people were annoyed by the small boy who persisted in asking what they had in their suitcases and if they had a dog at home, but he was impossible to repress. Eight-month-old Susan, usually a contented cherub, fussed when she wasn't allowed to crawl on the floor.

Janet sighed. Where now was the spirit of adventure which had sustained her that morning? Where was the confidence that she, alone, could shepherd her little family all the way across the country to join Greg in New York city? Could this tired young woman be the same person who just fourteen hours earlier had bustled happily about the train station saying goodbye to friends and relatives, assuring her worried mother that, of course, she and the children would be all right? What if she had never been more than 300 miles away from her home town, she had asked. One had to get out and discover the cold, cruel world sometime. Her father had laughed and called her Admiral Byrd.

JANET grinned wryly at her reflection in the window. Admiral Byrd, indeed. They had been traveling just one day, and she was already sorry she had ever started on this expedition. Tomorrow there would be a change of trains, then another long day and night before they reached Greg. Fervently she wished she had stretched their limited budget to buy airplane tickets. She wished they had all come with Greg two months before, even though they didn't know for sure then that he would receive the coveted scholarship for two years of study at the large eastern uni-

95

FEBRUARY 1965

versity. Finally, Janet just simply wished they were all safe and secure back in the little home town where she and Greg had lived all their lives. Let the more adventurous souls explore the cold world. She preferred to live in the warm circle of relatives and friends at home. Her last waking thought was of being surrounded by strangers for the next two years.

She hadn't been asleep very long when she felt someone shaking her shoulder.

"Mama," she heard Cheryl say. "Yes, dear. What is it?"

"It's Danny. He's wiggling around and I can't sleep. He says he's too hot."

Too hot in the cool, air-conditioned coach?

Janet jumped from her seat and crossed the aisle. Danny lay sprawled across his and Cheryl's seats, whimpering softly.

"Cheryl," she said, "you sleep there beside Susan. I'll stay by Danny."

She gathered the husky three-year-old into her arms. "Danny," she whispered, "Mama's here. What's the matter?"

Danny snuggled against her, but he continued to whimper. She felt his forehead and was alarmed at how hot it was. Running her hands over his body, she found he was burning all over. Danny was sick.

Now what would she do? If she were home she could call her mother, or Greg's mother. And wonderful Dr. Evans would hurry over as soon as he could to fix a discerning eye on Danny and prescribe something which would have him up playing again in no time.

But here she was, alone among strangers, with no comforting mother.

DANNY moaned and shifted restlessly in her arms. Janet hugged him close. Why did he have to be sick, friendly little Danny who had been so excited about his first train ride? Before they were ten miles from home he had checked the view from every window and told the occupants of the seats about Tootsie, the turtle who lived under Grandpa's house. There hadn't been any other small boys on the coach until sometime in the late afternoon when a large five-year-old materialized from somewhere, presumably from another coach. He and Danny had eyed each other warily; then the new boy came to hang over the back of Janet's seat, noisily crunching a crisp carrot while he watched her feed Susan a jar of prunes.

"That looks icky," the boy had stated.

"She likes it," defended Danny from his seat across the aisle.

The boy gazed contemplatively at Danny. "This you Ma?" he asked, flicking a finger at Janet.

"That's my MOTH-ER," Danny corrected. Janet was proud of him.

The boy took another bite of carrot. "Where's your Dad?" he asked.

"My Daddy left us," replied Danny, his clear voice carrying all over the coach. Janet's pride withered under a blast of embarrassment.

"He didn't axactly LEAVE us," she hastened to explain to the large woman who looked back with interest. "He just went to

AMONG STRANGERS

New York and we're going to him now." Somehow that didn't sound right, either.

"Left you, did he?" said the old man in the cowboy hat and boots.

"No, no," Janet said, her cheeks flushing. "You don't understand. He went east to study."

"Hah?" said the old man, cupping his hand to his ear. "I don't hear so well."

Janet twisted around to explain, but just then the visitor dropped his carrot, and there was a grand scramble as the boys looked for it. By the time they found it, Susan was fussing about something, and Janet decided the time for explaining the misunderstanding had passed. She huddled down in her seat, trying to ignore everyone. She fancied they whispered about her — the lady whose husband left her. Well, she didn't care. They were only strangers.

The other boy gave Danny a bite of his now-grimy carrot, and they became fast friends, playing happily — and noisily — until the boy's mother came looking for him to take him for an ice-cream cone. She offered to take Danny along, but Janet said no, not wanting Danny to go off with someone she didn't know.

Now Danny was sick. Despite Janet's efforts to soothe him, his soft whimpering became louder until plaintive wails drowned out the old man's snores.

"Sh, honey," Janet whispered. "People are trying to sleep."

The woman in the red muu-muu awakened and peered over the top of her seat.

"I'm sorry we disturbed you," Janet apologized.

"Is the little fellow sick?" the woman asked.

"I'm afraid so." Tears welled in Janet's eyes at the unexpected kindness of the woman's tone.

THE woman reached over and felt Danny's head.

"Goodness, he's burning up," she said. She heaved herself out of her seat and came around to stand in the aisle, searching in her capacious handbag until she found a tiny flashlight. She shined the light on Danny's face, which was decidedly flushed. She pried his mouth open to peer inside.

"Are you a nurse?" Janet asked hopefully.

"No," said the woman, "but I reared eight children and got a lot of what you call practical experience." She chuckled a little, then became serious.

"You've got a sick lad there. Wonder if there's a doctor on the train."

"Whatsa matter?" rumbled the old man in the cowboy hat, awakening with a start.

"Boy's sick," said the woman.

"Hah?" said the old man.

"Sick," shouted the woman.

"Huh? Who's sick?" demanded a sleepy, feminine voice.

"Little boy up here," said the woman in the red muu-muu.

The girl in the black pleated skirt and sweater came and bent over Janet.

"I'm sorry we awakened you," Janet said.

"That doesn't matter," said the girl. "Can I help?"

"Want me to go see if I can round up a doctor?" asked the old man.

97

FEBRUARY 1965

"I'd appreciate it," whispered Janet.
"Hah?" The old man leaned closer.
The woman in the red muu-muu nodded vigorously and the old man shuffled off. Janet noticed that he had removed his cowboy boots and it touched her that he should be padding off in his stocking feet in search of a doctor for Danny.
"Anybody got any aspirin?" asked the woman in the red muu-muu loudly. "We should try to bring his temperature down," she said to Janet.
There were murmurs of "I usually carry some with me" and sounds of people stirring in their belongings, but no aspirins were produced.
"I'll go find the conductor," said the girl in the black pleated skirt. "He will probably know where we can find some." She disappeared down the aisle.

THE woman in the red muu-muu tried to shift Danny to the seat where he would be more comfortable, but he clung to his mother and cried mournfully.
It wasn't long until the old man with the cowboy hat returned with a middle-aged woman from another coach.
"Couldn't locate a doctor," he announced, "but I lassoed a lady who thinks she might help."
"I reared six children," explained the lady.
"I reared eight," said the woman in the red muu-muu, somewhat belligerently.
"Oh," laughed the woman. "You're already in capable hands," she told Janet, "but if I can help just let me know."

"I didn't mean you couldn't help," apologized the woman in the red muu-muu. "I'm sorry."
The lady from the other coach smiled. "That's all right. I was just going to suggest putting cold cloths on his head to cool him off, but you've probably already suggested that."
"As a matter of fact, I've just been standing here like a ninny," said the woman in the red muu-muu. "Let's go wet some cloths."
After the two women had wiped off his hot body and put a cold compress on his head, Danny seemed more comfortable, but he still twitched and moaned.
"Sure wish I could do something for the little nipper," the old man said.
"You've done more than you realize," said Janet.
"Hah?" said the old man.
Janet smiled up at him as she reached out to pat his hand, a gnarled, rough hand which reminded her of her grandfather's. Embarrassed, the old man removed his hat, fumbled with it, and returned it to his head. He looked up the aisle.
"Here comes the boss," he said, as if relieved to shift the attention away from himself.
The girl in black came toward them with the conductor in tow.
"Hear you've got a sick boy," the conductor said.
Janet nodded, her throat constricted by the kindness of these strangers who stood there so concerned.
"Think he needs a doctor?" asked the conductor.
Janet tried to say something but was afraid she would cry if she opened her mouth.

98

AMONG STRANGERS

THE woman from the other coach spoke up. "I think he does."

"There's a town about forty miles from here," said the conductor. "I'll stop and have a doctor waiting." He reached out to touch Danny's forehead, then left without further comment.

Janet was fearful that the doctor would be grumpy at being roused from his bed, but she was mistaken. The train had scarcely stopped in the small prairie town when a cheerful young man carrying a black bag came striding down the aisle followed by the conductor. He smiled briefly at Janet as he knelt by the seat.

"Okay, partner," he said briskly. "Let's pop this into your mouth for a minute."

Danny made no objection to the thermometer or to the rest of the doctor's examination, which was performed in the light of the conductor's lantern. The other passengers watched silently. It was very quiet when the doctor finally spoke.

"I've never seen a healthier specimen," he said, smiling again at Janet. "His temperature is high and he may have a virus, but I'd say it's mostly from excitement and over-fatigue. I'll give him something to help him sleep, and leave some aspirin with you. If his temperature isn't normal by the time you get to Chicago tomorrow, you'd better see a doctor there."

The doctor gave something to unresisting Danny, and Janet relaxed for the first time since the boy became ill. She smiled gratefully at the cheerful young physician as he gave her instructions about the aspirin.

"I'm sorry we got you out of bed," she said.

The doctor stood up and patted her shoulder. "It's not the first time," he said. "Nor the last, I'm sure. Glad I could be of service." He accepted the bill Janet thrust into his hand, tousled Danny's hair, and left.

The conductor lingered for a moment. "Send someone after me if he gets any worse," he said. "There's another town in about 100 miles or so."

"Thank you," Janet called after him as he walked swiftly out of the coach. She felt that the simple words were inadequate.

AS the train started, Susan woke up. Before she had a chance to cry out, the lady in the red muu-muu swooped down and picked her up. Whispering softly to her, the woman changed her, then cuddled her while she rocked back and forth on the seat crooning, "Go to sleep, Suzie, time for a snoozy."

The rest of the people dispersed quietly, assuring Janet they would hurry back if needed. Janet, groggy with fatigue, thanked them all.

Cheryl, Janet noticed, still slumbered peacefully. Danny was relaxing limply in her arms. Carefully she laid him down in the seat and leaned back.

She hadn't meant to sleep, but when she opened her eyes again sunlight was streaming through the windows of the train. She looked up to see the woman in the red muu-muu peering at her over the back of the seat.

"Thought I heard you stir,"

97
