[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 117 | Home | Lace Baskets for Decorating a Banquet Table | Mildred McKenzie]
[Lace Baskets for Decorating a Banquet Table Mildred McKenzie]

116 Mildred McKenzie Irish Mission Relief Society A banquet for three hundred to be held, and the table decorating assigned to me! The summer flowers were in full bloom, but in what could I put them! I looked with longing at the lovely crocheted basket mother had given me. Oh, for enough of those! That was impossible, of course, so I made enough of them with paper doilies and evaporated milk cans. An empty milk can, some wire, paper doilies, and ribbon can be put together attractively for a party flower basket. Materials required for one basket: one 12-inch square doily one 12-inch round doily One 4 or 5-inch round doily cellophane tape One 3-foot length of wire one empty tall-size evaporated milk can The bottom and sides of the flower basket are made as a unit around the can, then removed from the can while the handles are fastened on. The can may be partly filled with water before slipping it into the basket again. 


 Directions for Making lace baskets J Enlarge the ho les at top edge of the Punch a hole in €ach side directly below the top holes through Which to fasten the Wire for he handle unch additiona] holes In the top of the ca large Ough so that th flowers can be inserted. The to il serve 4S a flower holde "frog." Cut 4-inch Strip from the arge square ily (or mall ones taped together). Roll; aro the can d fasten with Scotch Draw Pencil line 4round the Can in the enter of a la Cut out the ¢ Nter o th Pencil line sh c € doily, but cut it One-half Ows. Make three 6 S€ round doil Inch er than the four gs] Shes th SCissorg he p Neil line. Turn the Pside q na able; Slip th arge ver and down to the tab] @pe slashed tions to the Oily ¢ ver on the can, 5. Set the can j th Center of a 4 or 5-in oily and fasten this also to th doily Cover o the ca With four Pieces of tape. 6. Hold One h 4round the Can, push slightly up fro he ttom and remove the can fro € "basket" have ade for it. Reinforce the inner €dge of the "basket" h Strips of Pe Over th dge of the Openin 7. Cut One-inch TIPS from th emnant of the first 8e dojl Thread these Strips on Wire and connect Ith th tap after th are o Leave 6 Inches on each end ba 8. Faste the wire ° each side thirds full o ater and ta € top doil 1 Or some. Lovely. Doilies that 4Te not too lacy are €aSier to handle