[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 156 | Poem | Gifts for Everyday | Catherine B. Bowles]

LESSON DEPARTMENT

edge, their reason, and their faith, and then the people made their decisions influenced by their degree of unrighteousness. In these conditions the love of God and love of fellow men, so basic to peace and good will, are lost.

SUMMARY

Let us return now to the basic point of our lessons for the past three years — divine law and Church government. Our effort has been to bring to you a discussion of divine law and its function in Church government through the Priesthood, which is the power of God delegated to man.

The purpose of the government of the Church is to fulfill the objective of the Creator, "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). The mission of Jesus Christ to this earth established the pattern by which the objective of God can be realized. His pattern of life, his motivation in all his activity on this earth was demonstrated in the first and great commandment, ". . . Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets" (Matt. 22:37-40).

As the Savior was about to leave this world he said to his disciples, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you . . ." (John 14:27). His peace came from knowing he had filled to the fullness the will of the Father in his (Christ's) service to mankind. The love he had for his Father was demonstrated in the good he did for his fellow men. How often he said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments." If we would know his peace, we must follow in his footsteps.

THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION

1. What is the evidence of a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ?

2. What is the meaning of ". . . their heart is far from me," as quoted in Matt. 15:7-8?

3. To what extent is Church government responsible for the community environment of its members?

4. How important is the family influence in securing worthy members of the kingdom?

5. How important is love in developing peace in the hearts of men?

6. What part does divine law play in the development of peace?

REFERENCES

New Testament, Matthew, Chapters 22, 24; John, Chapters 14, 15.

Talmage, James E.: Articles of Faith, Chapter 24; Appendix 24, page 525.

155
