WORK AND BUSINESS MEETING
North Sanpete Stake (Mrs. Virginia W. Madsen): In the spring of 1924 we were given the opportunity of having a department in our union meetings for work and business, and as a result of this and other efforts, interest in the work and business meeting has been greatly revived. The second counselor, with two other stake board members, was given charge of this work. As a beginning we visited all the wards in the stake. This served as a survey of the work being done and gave a working basis for the future. We began by adopting a stake slogan: "Every ward a bazaar, and each ward the best." To assist the wards in working this out, we adopted an apron day, and asked each ward to bring to union meeting a finished apron and enough patterns of it to supply each ward in the stake. At this meeting eleven out of fourteen wards responded. Two contributions came from the stake board, and each ward was supplied with thirteen patterns, only one pattern being duplicated. Twelve finished articles were exhibited, all different, giving new ideas of color, combinations and finishings.
The stake committee had in mind several suggestions for the next work meeting. These were discussed by the ward representatives and the work for the next meeting planned. Samples of laces, edgings, etc., were supplied. At the present time the wards in the stake have at their disposal a variety of children's clothing, novelties for bazaars, Christmas gifts, and attractive saleable articles for the bazaar. We are proud that eleven out of fourteen wards held bazaars in 1925. Those not holding them were small wards of from thirteen to fifteen members. Many wards held work meetings week after week during the Summer.
After this experience, the idea prevailed that living up to the slogan was too much for each year, so the committee thought each ward might hold a bazaar every other year, and where there is more than one ward in a community, the bazaars might be held alternately. We sent cards to the wards asking them what benefits they had received. They answered that they had been benefitted by the exchange of patterns, and that many useful original ideas had been circulated. One ward purchased a roll of paper and gave members the privilege of cutting off the patterns they wished, but keeping the original patterns in the organization. The attendance has been increased greatly, as many come to the work meetings who would otherwise not have attended.


The teachers report one by one in a separate group composed of the president and secretary-treasurer, and then join the work group in which they are most adapted to serve. If the membership could function in the same type of work each time, more could be accomplished and the standard of work raised. We have had wonderful cooperation in our work meeting program. Our attendance at union meetings has been from 50% to 75% during 1925, although the stake is large and the ward representatives have to travel long distances. The wards which sent representatives regularly to union meetings showed the best results in the ward work. The committee in charge of work meetings can do much to stimulate interest if adequate preparation is made before the meeting begins. In some wards the work committee prepared a finished article after the pattern to be distributed and worked upon, and this stimulated interest in the work at hand. This finished sample could then be kept by the ward for the bazaar. If the work committee would have articles cut out of the different materials being sewed, more could be accomplished at work meetings. It is also a good plan to have a sub-committee in charge of each kind of work to be done—fancy work, quilting, rag rugs, remodeling, etc.
We feel that we have only made a beginning. Our idea to get away from a set program of carpet rags and quilt blocks has functioned in the wards. We are not discouraged but realize that work and organization on our part is the only avenue to success. A definite general outline would help the work, but we realize that types of work must be arranged to suit the various localities and wards in the Church. I feel that organization and preparation are the things that insure success in work and business meeting.
Salt Lake Stake (Mrs. Vilate N. Bennion): Our stake is on the west side of Salt Lake. There is some significance attached to that, because it is the poorer part of Salt Lake. A great many of our people have small salaries; some of them do not have any fixed salaries, and some of them haven't anything and are dependent upon the Relief Society and upon neighbors for help. This will give you an explanation of the kind of work we have been doing in our work meetings. Our business takes up a great deal of the afternoon so the suggestion of the General Board that we have one ward counselor take charge of the work of the meeting was very acceptable. Our wards meet at two o'clock (although sometimes they meet earlier to do special work) and after the opening exercises the meeting is divided into two groups. The president, with her secretary-treasurer and the social worker retire to an adjoining room and
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE 285
attend to the business and receive the teachers' reports. It takes most of the afternoon in many of our wards just to hear the reports of the teachers and see to this business. We have quite a number of social service aids in our stake. We have thirteen wards and half of them have social service aids who help very materially in the work and in the distribution of the funds that we have for charitable purposes; all of which is done in connection with the bishops. One of the counselors takes charge of the work meeting. Of course, the quilts and carpet rags are always in evidence, but we have been remodeling, have been doing different kinds of fancy work, and in many instances our people have taken the sewing of families who are unable to keep up with their work, and have done it on this day. There have been many instances of this. They have made clothes over, they have made clothes out of new material, and have done fancy work as a source of revenue. I think every ward of the stake has had a bazaar during the last year and much of the work was done at these meetings. We have appointed a Board member to be stake supervisor of sewing and fancy work. We have asked each ward to select somebody besides the officers to take charge of this part of the work, under the supervision of the counselor in charge. In the latter part of January we set a day to make an ideal work and business day. We selected the work and business meeting of March to do this. At first there was not a great deal of interest, but soon every ward took it up enthusiastically. Our stake supervisor taught the making of flowers, the making of lamp shades, ties, and dyed work, etc. Special interest was taken in the crystal lamp shades which have been very popular this winter. Some of the wards had an attendance of three times as many as usual. We made it a point for a board member to visit each ward and it was quite a gala day. The results of the work were so fine that we had an exhibition of all of the work on the 17th of March, and we were truly pleased with the many beautiful things done in the shape of fancy work and brought together for this display. We had also on display quilts made of new cloth and old cloth, and clothing for the poor. The great problem now is to keep up this interest.
Ogden Stake (Mrs. Emma A. Jensen): In preparing this topic and thinking it over, I wondered if the General Board does not get discouraged and weary waiting for results from the work and business meeting. It has been several years since they first gave us the new plan, and it seems we are just now beginning to wake up to the fact that it is a very important subject. We have found in our stake that probably the difficulty we have had has been because we were not well organized. We have not known definitely what we were going to do, as at other meetings. Then


we found at first that we did not have all the presidents converted to work and business meeting. They said they could sew at home, but we believe now that every president is in favor of the work. Of all of the meetings during the month, the work and business meeting is the one which needs the best general preparation. Then, there must be thorough cooperation between the work committee and the officers, so that they will not overlap one another. I know of instances where the work committee has become discouraged because they have not been able to put their work over after preparations were made. We have a preparation meeting in the wards in our stake every Wednesday night, where the Relief Society officers meet in departments to prepare their work for the following week, and in this meeting the officers take up most of their business so there is not very much business to be done on the meeting day. The teachers' topic has become quite an important feature of this day. This topic is first given at the monthly union meeting. The representatives at union meeting carry it back and it is given on the work and business meeting day. The time allotted is between ten and fifteen minutes, and we are careful not to go over this time. After the topic is given the meeting is divided into two groups, and while the reports are being given, the work goes on with its own activity. The teachers make confidential reports to the president and secretary, and then join the work group. Some wards have supervisors each of whom is in charge of four or five pairs of teachers, and they hand in a compiled report of the group over which they preside. This saves a great deal of time and reports made in this way are given in about one-third of the time it would take the teachers to report individually. We are very fortunate in having a stake board member in charge of the work committee, who is a government worker. She has the work outlined for the year. She has been taking up at union meetings the tailored pocket, the bound buttonhole, dress finishing, etc. The ward representatives have taken this information back to the wards, where all the members, and especially the young mothers, have been very much interested. We also have quilt blocks, etc., and sometimes the women bring their own work and exchange patterns. At one time the stake supervisor did a great deal in exchanging patterns. She is planning to introduce next pressing and cleaning, and during the summer she will take up salad dressings and combinations of fruits and vegetables for salads, also sandwiches and their filling. For a time when the members would find that it was work and business meeting they would stay home, saying, "They are just going to sew today, we will stay home," but now our attendance is just as good on this day as on any other. At a meeting I attended in February, I was
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE 287
very much interested in a group of young sisters who were taking active part. They were taking lessons in set-in pockets and bound button holes. The lesson had been given the previous month, and these young mothers had heard of it and had come to the meeting and asked that the lesson be repeated for them. In one ward last year, twenty-five rag rugs were made. It was found that these rugs sell better than most anything else at bazaars, and very good profit was made on them. So they always have a good supply of rag rugs for bazaars. With the exception of one or two small wards we all have bazaars. Part of our wards are country wards and of course conditions are different and they do work to suit the conditions. In one ward eight quilts were pieced and sold at the bazaar. Some were also given to people who needed them. In one ward thirty-seven skull caps were made for the Red Cross. Some of the women who were good knitters came and taught the others how to knit these caps. In one ward last year fourteen crocheted rugs were made, you who have seen these crocheted rugs have noticed that very attractive color combinations can be achieved. They sell rapidly. In one small ward with an attendance of from twenty to twenty-five, we have a very ingenious leader. She is prepared every work meeting with her bundles of work that she has cut and sorted and this is given to the women who are best fitted to do the work. Of course, having such a small enrollment, she knows every member and what she can do best. This ward had a family of seven children left without a mother, and for some time the Society took care of this family, and clothed them very nicely with remodeled clothes. At a local board meeting last week, the problem of interesting those members who range in age from seventy to eighty years, was discussed. These sisters cannot thread needles and do not care to sew. The ward officers are very desirous of having them attend and they were considering the advisability of having a special topic assigned to them so they might sit in a group by themselves and discuss it. Another suggestion was that they have someone read to them. Sometimes at the work and business meeting, refreshments are served. At one time some of our wards made this quite a feature. Attendance became larger but it was realized that very little was accomplished so we are gradually doing away with it, and spending the time more profitably.
PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS
President Williams spoke of the older women, and urged that the wards make plans for them so that they will find something of interest at the work and business meeting. While we are


working with all our might to get the young mothers interested in the organization, we want to retain all the older members and make it a happy meeting place for them.
Perhaps during no period have more reorganizations been made in the Relief Society than during the past six months. This has brought in some new workers and placed in office others who have been members of the organization but who have not had such responsibility before. Following is a list of organizations and reorganizations:
North Central States mission, organized October, 1925. Mrs. Harriet H. Allred appointed president.
Eastern States mission—Washington, D. C., organized February 13, 1926. Mrs. Don B. Colton appointed president.
Gunnison stake, reorganized August 30, 1925. Mrs. Ida Swalberg released; Mrs. Amelia C. Larson appointed president.
Alpine stake, reorganized January 24, 1926. Mrs. Annie C. Hindley released; Mrs. Eliza Buckwalter appointed president.
Oneida stake, reorganized February 14, 1926. Mrs. Nellie P. Head released. Mrs. Amy C. Ballif appointed president.
Millard stake, reorganized November 28, 1925. Mrs. Susan Thompson released; Mrs. Hattie Partridge appointed president.
South Sanpete stake, reorganized February 21, 1926. Mrs. Hannah Christenson released; Mrs. Mary B. Noyes appointed president.
Uintah stake, reorganized January 31, 1926. Mrs. Permelia E. Batty released; Mrs. Elnora Vernon appointed president.
Hawaiian mission, reorganized December, 1925. Mrs. Olive S. Waddoups appointed president.
Roosevelt stake, reorganized March, 1926. Clara E. Hanson released; Ada Johnson appointed president.