EDITORIAL . Motto  Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IV. SEPTEMBER, 1917. No. 9. SEPTEMBER TWENTY-FIRST, EIGHTEEN TWENTYTHREE. There is an old phrase which was often on the Losing One's lips of the Pilgrim Fathers, and Mothers  Self in Christ those stern non-conformists and religious Jesus, enthusiasts who trained themselves and their children in the school of self-repression, hard work and rigid spiritual discipline. It was the advice to "lose yourself in Christ Jesus!" To forget self and selfish pleasures, self-aggrandizement, while constantly seeking the welfare and happiness of others. The phrase lost much of its original genuineness as the drift of religion lost its savor and integrity; and it finally became, as it were, a stock-worn religious platitude. At no time in the world's history has the wo Modern ship of Self attained more prodigious propor Individualism. tions than exists all around us today. The selfmade man is the modern god. I, me. mine, thr are the shibboleths of the present. Enlarged somewhat, the worship includes my father, my wife, my child. Societies for the extolling of parents who have in any way distinguished themselves, multiply in the land. Sons and daughters of every conceivable character rise up and flatter themselves by telling about their won EDITORIAL. 523 drous forebears. The beauty and value of the germinal principle in all this ancestor worship  that of shaping youthful character by proper pride in honest ancestry  is too often lost under the verbiage of cheap oratory and the tawdry social climbing begotten of class distinctions and exclusive social groups. Imagine, if you can, the consternation of our Pilgrim fore-parents if they could behold some of their fashionable descendants of today. The social ideal of the true Latter-day Saint The Whole is a happy combination of the best there is in Greater than individualism and communism. To respect any Part. self enough to live on the highest plane, and to love all men enough to seek the good of the whole community rather than the pleasures of the individual is the aim of every Saint. Add to this practical ideal the spiritual parallel, and you have fertile ground for the planting of the principles of redemption for the dead. There is no visible reward, no outer commendation, for the man or the woman who seeks after his or her dead. No one rises up to bless, none voice their gratitude, and no earthly gifts repay the zealous toiler for the dead. What a day for Saints to remember; what a The 21st of vision for Saints to recall. The open door for Sept., 1823. the prisoner, the eyesight for the blind; the procession of devout readers had read Malachi for centuries and never knew 'till the Angel Moroni taught the youthful Prophet to read understanding^, the promise made to the fathers. The hearts of the children shall turn to the fathers, said the angel. Who can doubt its fulfilment! If we would know the joy, the bliss of the true follower of Christ Jesus, we must respect self, family, living friends, and still love our ancestors sufficiently to lose ourselves in the work and mission of our Savior. He gave His whole life living, and His body on the tree, to save others. All the words we speak, all the acts we perform, that tend to save souls are Christ-like. When we are actually the means of converting some loved one, how supreme is our joy! Then how great is the labor that opens the prison door for hundreds  nay thousands, of spirits, which are helpless without that vicarious assistance. Beautiful day in a beautiful month that brought so beautiful an opportunity to mortals to lose themselves in Christ Jesus while finding themselves at life's close safe in His ineffable companionship. We honor thee, the twenty-first day of September, 1823-1917. Guide Lessons. LESSON II. Theology and Testimony. First Week in October.  IN JUDITH'S TIME. (Reading: The Story of Judith, in the Apocrypha. Reference: Smith's "Old Testament History," chapter 27. page 226.) The previous lesson  on Israel in Exile  took us on a brief excursion from the Promised Land into the domains of the Persian Empire; this lesson brings us back to Palestine, the home of the Chosen People of God. But here we shall find a very different land from that which we have known in other days. About six hundred years before Christ the House of Judah was taken captive to Babylon. Some years prior to this the other tribes had been taken captive by Shalmaneser. So that for the period of about seventy years the land of Pale>tine contained hut a few "remnants" of the favored people. But about 336 B. C, fifty thousand and more of the scattered Israelites returned, by permission of Cyrus the Great, and began to build Jerusalem and the Temple. And so at least some of the Jews once again "sat under their own vine and fig tree" in the land of their inheritance. Of the conditions that prevailed in Palestine at this period. Dr. Smith says: "The people again presented, as in the wilderness, the outward aspect of the Church of the living God. Owing their revived political existence to the will of Persia, they could not at first establish a new monarchy: nor was the attempt ever made, till the usurpation of an alien  Herod the Idumaean  seemed to challenge their true King, the Christ, to assert His rights. The people seemed to have learned to wait for His king dom. "Our admiration for the magnificence of Solomon's Temple is not unmingled with a misgiving of some loss of spirituality, and its destruction broke through a tradition which leaned toward an undue reliance upon ceremonies. The second Temple, so strikingly inferior in outward splendor, nay. even the visible sign of Jehovahs presence in the Shekinah. became the center of a more spiritual worship. "While the great festivals, like the other Mosaic institutions, were for the first time punctually observed, the experience of the Captivity. and the examples of such men as Daniel, had taught GUIDE LESSONS. 525 the people that God might be worshipped not in Jerusalem only; arid their local meetings in the synagogues, which some suppose to have begun during the Captivity, became a regular institution. The Scriptures, collected into a "canon" soon after the return, supersede! the prophetic office; their regular reading in the synagogues prevented that ignorance which had been so fatal under the monarchy; and the "scribes," who devoted themselves to their exposition, shared the respect paid to the priests and Levites. Prayer, private as well as public, regained that supreme place in God's worship which had been usurped by rites and ceremonies. The Sabbath, which the prophets never cease to represent as the keystone both of religion and of the charities of social life, was firmly established, after a sharp contest with worldly selfishness. Idolatry was henceforth unknown; and the attempt of the Syrian kings to impose its practice adorned the Jewish Church with a cloud of martyrs, whose constancy confirms the many other proofs that the people had attained more spiritual faith. "The shades of this fair picture were as yet in the background, and the current of the history brings them into prominence soon enough. They are the vices which our corrupt nature distils from these very virtues; spiritual pride, perverting the uses of God's worship; oppression and immorality, excused by the privileges of God's people." This spirituality is confirmed by the details of the Book of Judith. Suffering, deprivation, and persecution generally has the effect of reducing pride to the dust. It often did so with the Nephites and the Jews. It did so on this occasion. For seventy years the people of Israel had lived among strangers who despised and pillaged them. And now they were back again in their native land with none to molest them except from the outside. No wonder they turned gratefully to serving God all the day. When, therefore, a foreign army once more threatened their peace and security, instead of making alliances with the broken reed of heathen princes, they looked to Jehovah for succor. "Every man of Israel," we are told by the author of Judith, "cried to God with their great fervency, and with humble souls. Both they, their great vehemence' wives, and their did they children, and their cattle, and every stranger and hireling, and their, servants bought with money, put sackcloth upon their loins. Thus every man and woman, and the little children, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, fell before the temple, and cast ashes upon their heads, and spread out their sackcloth about the altar, and cried to the God of Israel all with one consent earnestly, that he would not give their children for a prey, and their wives for a spoil, and the cities of their inheritance to destruction, and the sanctuary to profanation and reproach, and for the nations to rejoice at." The heroic deed of Judith and the circumstances attending it 
 furnish an interesting illustration of how the Lord answers prayers a^ compared with the manner in which men sometimes expect I lim to do. It will be remembered that, when the army of the great king marched up against the town of Bethulia, in Samaria, the people gathered in that stronghold to withstand the invading forces. It will also In remembered that Holofernes, the leader of those Forces, believed that the Israelites there trusted to their defenses for protection against defeat, and so he suddenly decided to lay siege to the fortified town. Thus he unwittingly fell a prey to the Nemesis that lay in wait for him. The siege continued till the Jews were reduced to the extremities of thirst. Whereupon, the local authorities, urged by the women and children to do something to relieve the situation, consented to surrender to the enemy  if God did not deliver them within five days. That God would so deliver them these men believed without question. No doubt the words of Achior to Holofernes himself fully expressed their sentiments in the matter: "Now therefore, my lord and governor, if there be any error in this people, and they sin against their God. let us consider that this shall be their ruin, and let us go up. and we shall overcome them. But if there be no iniquity in their nation, let my lord now pass by. lest their Lord defend them, and their God be for them, and we become a reproach before all the world.'* And the elders of the people knew they had not sinned before the Lord. So there could be nothing else but a deliverance by I lim. "Be of good cheer," said Ozias, one of these rulers, "let us yet endure five days, in the which space the Lord our God may turn his mercy toward us; for he will not forsake us utterly." Judith evidently had more trust even than the leading men in Bethulia that God would bring about a deliverance of the people. "Hear me now, O ye governors," she reproached them, "for your words that ye have spoken before the people this day are not right, touching this oath which ye made and pronounced between God and you. and have promised to deliver the city to our enemies, unless within these days the Lord turn to help you. And now who are we that have tempted God this day, and stand instead of God among the children of men? For if he will not help us within these five days, he hath power to defend us when he will, even every day. Therefore, let us wait for salvation of him, and call upon him to help us." But how was the Lord to deliver the people? The obvious way, in the judgment of the governors, was for the Lord to furnish a supply of water. This would be easy for the Lord to do by means of rain. That this is precisely what they thought is evident from what they said to Edith: "Therefore, now pray thou for us, because thou art a goodly woman, and the Lord will GUIDE LESSONS. 527 send us rain to fill our cisterns, and we shall faint no more." The Lord, however, had a simpler and more effective way of relieving the situation. He used the faith, intelligence, and courage of this woman through whom to accomplish what they had prayed for, hut what they had expected would be done in quite a different way. It is much to their credit, however, that they did not try to explain the matter on natural principles, and say: "Oh, that was not an answer to prayer at all. Tt would have happened anyhow. Our deliverance came about in a perfectly natural manner, and God had nothing to do with it." Perhaps they would have done so had they lived in our scientific age. The fact that the governors of Bethulia took this whole event in such good part would argue a high degree of respect for woman. They do not appear to have deemed it offensive at all or out of the way in the least. Perhaps it was due to the commanding personality of Judith, for she was not only a pious woman, but a woman of great independence, intelligence, and leadership. Three other points are worthy of notice. On her journey she wore sandals on her feet, bracelets on her arms, chains on her neck, and rings on her fingers. In fact, she "decked herself bravely," we are told, "to allure the eyes of all men that should see her."' Her fare consisted of a bottle of wine, some parched corn, lumps of figs, and fine bread. Also she carried a cruse of oil for ointment purposes. At midnight, while she was away, she went to the valley of Bethunia to wash herself in the fountain. On her return to Bethunia, "the women of Israel ran together to see her, and blessed her, and made a dance among them for her; and she took branches in her hand, and gave also to the women that were with her. And they put a garland of olive upon her and her maid that was with her, and she went before all the people in the dance, leading all the women; and all the men of Israel followed in their armor with garlands, and with songs in their mouths." QUESTIONS. 1. Describe the conditions that prevailed in Palestine at the time of Judith. 2. What is said of the spiritual condition of the people in Palcstme at the time? 3. Compare the faith of Judith with that of the people generally. 4. How did the governors seem to think their prayers for deliverance would be answered? 5. Was their prayer the less divinely answered that it was done in a "natural" way0 Explain. How are prayers answered? 6. What defeat Judith? How was she dressed? Describe the manner in which she was received on her return. 
 BIBLE LESSON FOR OCTOBER. "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy is understanding." Bible, Joel, Chapter 3. Book of Mormon. Ether, Chapters 1-15. Psalms. Chapters 45-68. LESSON 11. Work and Business. Second Week in October. LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in October. GENEALOGY. OF THE TEUTONS. Before about 50 B. C. historical knowledge of the Teutons is lacking. For approximately the 1,000 years prior to the birth of Christ, present day historians' interest centers about the decline of the Tigris-Euphrates and the Nile river valleys' civilization and the rise of the Greco-Roman about the Mediterranean as a center. But we know very little about their neighbors, the Teutons, north of the Alps and the Balkans. Our problem is, whom are they descendants of? This question is of comparative little interest to the historian who writes from the biological point of view of life. But to the Latter-day Saint whose belief is "the earth will be smitten with a curse, unless there is a welding link of one kind or other between the fathers and the children  and tint "we without them cannot be made perfect, or they with unit us cannot be made perfect." to such, we repeat, the question is all-important. Tn the absence of history we have to go to other meaning identification. Tn the preceding lesson we quoted the historian Tacitus on these characteristic institutions, namely, religion, the family life, and government. Historians of political science acknowledge that popular, representative government is a eontribution GUIDE LESSONS. 529 of the Teutonic people. Greece and Rome had democratic government, but the classes, deprived of democratic rights, were much larger, and they did not know representative government. In the folk mob, or meeting of the freemen of the Teutons, to consent to or reject matters of importance in government, we have the popular element and mismanagement, or meeting of the wise men, of the tribe to counsel the king, we have a nucleus for the representative element of government. Out of these practices have been developed our present democratic representative government. These checks on their officials are evidence of their love of freedom. Tacitus says: "They chose their kings by birth, their generals for merit. These kings have not unlimited or arbitrary power, and the generals do more by example than by authority. To reprimand, to imprison, even to flog, is permitted to the priests alone, and that not as a punishment, or at the general's bidding, but, as it were, by the mandate of the god whom they believe to inspire the warrior." About the time of the birth of our Savior they were under the government of the half-constituted provinces of Rome beyond the Rhine. Tt was military and oppressive. In 9 A. D. Germany, under the leadership of Arminius, the German chieftain, and a most likely progenitor of the Anglo-Saxons of England, took up arms for her independence against Roman government. Arminius knew well the gigantic powers of the oppressor. He was no rude savage, fighting out of mere animal instinct, or in ignorance of the might of his adversary. He was familiar with the Roman language and civilization; he had served in the Roman arrest; he had been admitted to the Roman citizenship, and raised to the dignity of the equestrian order. Tt was part of the subtle policy of Rome to confer rank and privileges on the youth of the leading families in the nations which she wished to enslave. Among of her young German chieftains, .Arminius and his brother, who were the heads of the noblest houses in the tribe of the Cherusci, had been selected as fit objects for the exercise of this insidious system. Roman refinements and dignities succeeded in denationalizing the brother, who assumed the Roman name of Flavius. and adhered to Rome throughout all her wars against his country. Arminius remained unbought by honors of wealth, uncorrupted by refinement or luxury. He aspired to and obtained from Roman enmity a higher title than ever could have been given him by Roman favor. It is in the page of Rome's greatest historian, that his name has come down to us with the proud addition of the real German liberator. Creatsy. "Decisive Battles of the World," p. 130A Ranke, the foremost of our universal historians, says concerning the situation Arminius had to meet that "the self-govern- 
 ing powers, that had filled the old world, had bent one after another before the rising power of Rome, and had vanished. The earth seemed left void of independent nations." "If," says Creasj. "Arminins had been unsuccessful, our Germanic ancestors would have been enslaved or exterminated in their original seats along the Eyden and the Elbe. The island would never have borne the name England and "we, this great English nation, whose race and language are now overrunning the earth from one end of it to the other,' would have been utterly cut off from existence" (p. 129). In the above event we see a spirit which reminds us of the spirit manifested in IT Chronicles 10:1-16. Concerning their family life. Tacitus says: "Their marriage code, however, is strict, and indeed no part of their manners is more praiseworthy. Almost alone among barbarians they are content with one wife, except a very few among them, and these not for sensuality, but because their noble birth procures for them many offers of alliances. The wife does rot bring a dower to her husband, but the husband to the wife. The parents and relatives are present, and pass judgment on the marriage gifts, gifts not meant to suit a woman's taste, nor such as a bride would deck herself with, but oxen, a caparisoned steed, a shield, a lance and a sword. With these presents the wife is espoused, and she herself in turn brings her husband a gift of arms. This they count their strongest bond of union, these their sacred mysteries, these their gods of marriage. Lest the woman should think herself to stand apart from aspirations after noble deeds and from the perils of war. she is reminded by the ceremony which inaugurates marriage that she is her husband's partner in toil and danger, destined to suffer and to dare with him alike both in peace and in war. The yoked oxen, the harnessed steed, the gift of arms, proclaim this fact. She must live and die with the feeling that she is receiving what she must hand down to her children neither tarnished nor depreciated, what future daughters-in-law may receive and may be so passed on to her children. This with their virtue protected they live interrupted by the allurements of public shows or the stimulant of feasting. Clandestine correspondence is equally unknown to men and women. Very rare for so numerous a population is adultery, the punishment for which is prompt, and in the husband's power. "* * * The loss of chastity meets with no indulgence: neither beauty, youth, nor wealth will procure the culprit a husband. * * * Still better is the condition of those states in which only maidens are given in marriage, and where the hopes and expectations of a bride are then finally terminated. They receive one husband, as having one body and one life, that they may have no thoughts beyond, no further recalling desires, that GUIDE LESSONS. 531 they may love not so much the husband as the married state. To limit the number of their children or to destroy any of their subsequent offspring is accounted infamous, and good habits are here more effectual than good laws elsewhere." (Tacitus, "Germany and Its Tribes," pp. 100-102.) "Tradition says that armies already wavering and giving way have been rallied by women who, with earnest entreaties and bosoms laid bare, have vividly represented the horrors of captivity, which the Germans fear with such extreme dread in behalf of their women, that the strongest tie by which a state can be bound is the being required to give, among the number of hostages, maidens of noble birth. They even believe that the sex has a certain sanctity and prescience, and they do not despise their counsels, or make light of their answers. In Vespasian's day we saw Xeleda, long regarded by many as a divinity. In former times, too, they venerated Aurinia, and many other women, but not with servile flatteries, or with sham deification." (Tacitus, P. 93.) . The characteristic in the Teutons to which we wish to draw attention in religion is expressed by Rogers in "A Student's History of Philosophy." There is a fourth element which enters into modern life  the Teutonic. The contribution which it makes is the human material in which the Roman, Greek and Christian contributions were to be brought together and realized. Conceivably, the Roman world might have had within it the power to make a fresh start, and assume their new task. But historically this was not what happened. If civilization was to be carried on at all, it could only be by the assimilation of this new (Teutonic) material. Hopeless as the task appeared, in reality the Teutons, though barbarians, had in them the possibilities of a higher development than any that had preceded. Their most striking characteristic was a pronounced sense of individuality and love of freedom; but along with this there went a simplicity of character and a ruggedness of moral nature and a clearness of life which furnished admirable soil for Christianity." (pp. 212, 213.) Tacitus tells us that the Teutons preserved their race purity to a remarkable degree. In this respect they were like the Jews. And on somewhat the same principles as the Jews. Dr. Vorsaenger, a prominent rabbi of San Francisco, in reviewing the causes of this race preservation among the Jews, attributes it to the school, home and church. From the traits we have noted in the above institutions of the Germans, we can say with Professor West, head of the department of history in the University of Minnesota, that "the Germans resemble the Hebrews in a serious, earnest, imaginative temperament, which has made their Christianity differ widely 
 from that of the clear-minded, sunnier peoples of southern Europe. They felt the solemn mystery of life, with its shortness of days, its sorrows, and unsatisfied longings." | West's " Ancient World," p. 573.) Life to them, according to Green, "was built * * * on the proud self-consciousness of noble souls." The above traits and institutions point strongly to the Teulost Tentons, the Tribes ancestry of of the "Mormon" people, being a part of the Israel. In our next we shall consider the neighbors of the Teutons. QUESTIONS. By what institutions do we try to determine the ancestry of the Teutonic people. What are the chief characteristics of the government of the Teutons? Of the family life of the Teutons? In what respect is the Teutonic people a fertile soil for Christianity? With whom, genealogically, do these institutions most probably link the Teutonic people? AUTUMN LEAVES IN LITERATURE. Fall time with its wealth of color and bounties of the harvest home, has inspired almost as many songs and stories as has the blossoming spring. These autumn leaves of literature give an added charm when read in the season thereof. The enjoyment of them may be increased by sharing them with one another. For these reasons we suggest that an hour be spent in class, and many hours in the home, reading the songs and stories appropriate for the autumn time. One poem especially that should be read and re-read is James hitcomb Riley's  "When the Frost is on the Pumpkin and the Fodder's in the Shock." Tt breathes the spirit of Thanksgiving as expressed from the heart of an old farmer, and suggests pictures of the fall time in such artistic lines as these: "The husky-rusty rustle of the tassels of the corn And the raspin' of their tangled leaves as golden as the morn. "The stubble in the furries, kindo' lonesome like, but still A preachin' sermons to us of the barns they growed to fill." The whole poem may be easily obtained and read in class. Helen Hunt Jackson, the author of "Ramona," has also given us several delicate little lyrics of autumn. The following lines are taken from one of them: GUIDE LESSONS. 
 "The golden rod is yellow. The corn is turning brown; And trees in apple orchards With fruit are bending down. "The sedges flaunt their harvest. Tn every meadow nook, And asters by the brookside Make asters in the brook." She sings also in another poem of "October's bright blue weather," and in still another of November as the time "when all wild things lie down to sleep." John Greenleaf Whittier is another poet who expresses the spirit of autumn in several poems. His "Corn Song," which closes these: the poem called "The Huskers," rings with lusty lines like "Heap high the farmer's wintry hoard. Heap high the golden corn. No richer gift has autumn poured From out her lavish horn." In "Mabel Martin," Whittier also pictures the husking bee and tells us an interesting story of a girl whose mother has been killed as a witch by the Puritans of New England. Another of his poems, "The Pumpkin." is in a lighter vein. The following stanza is taken from it: "Oh, on Thanksgiving day, when from east and from west, From north and from south comes the pilgrim and guest, When the gray-haired New Englander sees round his board The old broken links of friendship restored, What cheers up the heart, what moistens the eye, What brings back the past like a rich pumpkin pie?" But of all the songs of thanksgiving none breathe the spirit of gratitude so truly as do the songs of praise found among the Psalms, the following of which is illustrative: "Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. "Serve the Lord with gladness; come before his presence with singing. "Know ye that the Lord he is God; it is he that hath made is. and not we ourselves: we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. "Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: P>e thankful unto him. and bless his name. 
 "lor the Lord is good, his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations" (Ps. LOO). I me of the sweetest stories of the autumn time also comes From the Bible the Story of Ruth, who gleaned in the fields of Bethlehem. This simple pastoral pictures in a beautiful way tinlife of the common folk of Israel, showing them at work in the field and at their homely daily duties. Manx other stories have been sel in the autumn time. The old aired tale of Persephone is one of them. It tells us about Mother Ceres, the goddess of the harvest, who had one beautiful daughter Persephone. ( me day Persephone was playing with the sea nymphs when I 'Into, tile god of the underworld, suddenly appeared in his chariot drawn by four coal black steeds. Me seized Persephone and bore her away to list home under the earth.  When Mother teres found that her daughter had been stolen. she grieved so much that she could not work. The harvests were neglected; the plants drooped and died, the leaves fell and winter covered the earth. Mother Ceres meanwhile went searching everywhere For her lost child. When she finally learned from Apollo where Persephone had keen taken, she appealed to Jupiter, the -'eat All Father. Jupiter commanded Pluto to release the girl, and Persephone was returned to her mother. The earth immediately grew glad again. The birds returned, the blossoms and leaves came hack to the trees and the world became fruitful once more. Another interesting old-time tale suggestive of the harvest season, comes to us from the American Indians. This story '? Mondamin." which is an Indian name for corn, tells how this grain came as a gift from the Great Spirit to the poor Indians. In the legends of the Redmen, the corn plays an important part. Edna Dean Proctor, in a stirring poem, suggests that America's emblems be "the bounteous golden corn." Besides these old time tales suggestive of the harvest time, there are many modern stories set in the autumn time, particularly in connection with Thanksgiving. This holiday, given to us by the Pilgrims, has clustered much romance about it. Joining the most interesting of the stories that rightly belong to this time is "The Courtship of Miles St;md:sh." by Longfellow, This is a most artistic poem picturing the Pilgrim life and thought and telling of the courtship of Priscilla. the Puritan maiden by the captain of the Pilgrim army. Instead of going himself. Standish sends John Mden, Priscilla's lover. John crushes his own feel to do the bidding of his friend, but Priscilla who reads her lover's heart turns the proposal towards John. Standish is rejected; he denounces John as a traitor, and leaves on an capedi GUIDE LESSONS. 535 tion against the Indians. News comes that the Captain is slain. Priscilla and John are united, and just as the ceremony is being performed, Standish reappears. Forgiveness and reconciliation follow and all ends well. This story, to be fully enjoyed, should be read in its poetic by Longfellow. Its pictures of Pilgrim life and its Biblical allusions are splendid. Another story that breathes the spirit of true Thanksgiving is that of our Pioneers. The tale of the Crickets and the Seagulls has come to be a nationalized story of God's goodness and man's gratitude. It is like the tale of the manna sent to the Children of Israel. In these days of stress and trial, of struggle against want and famine, it is surely meet that we should retell these and other tales and sing anew the songs of praise and thanksgiving. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. Find a copy of Rileys' "When the Frost is on the Punkin,"  study it, and have some good reader read it to the class. 2. Have Helen Hunt Jackson's three poems, "September," "October," and "November" likewise read in class. 3. What other autumn poems or songs do you know? Be ready to give them. 4. Tell briefly the story of Ruth. What verse from it has particularly pleased you? 5. What is the significance in nature of the story of Persephone? 6.Tell the story of the First Thanksgiving. (It may be found in "The Story Hour" by Kate Douglas Wiggin, and in other books that tell of the Pilgrims.) 7. Tell the story of "The First Thanksgiving in Utah,"-  the tale of the Gulls and the Crickets. If any pioneer mother or father can be brought to class to give this story first hand have this done. LESSON IV. Home Economics Fourth Week in September. CHILDREN'S CLOTHING. Since the beginning of time man has had problems to meet. Perhaps the greatest has been the procuring of food for sustaining life; next to that comes the covering of the body for protection" and adornment. 
 Why is it that man wears clothing and other animals do not? Miss Ballin in the science of Dress says. "Animals living in the water have a layer of fat next the skin through which water cannot pass, and which resists the passage of heat. The skin, being to a certain extent, non-conducting partially prevents excessive loss of heat, and in this duty it is supplemented in the animals by feathers or fur, and in man by clothes. "Clothes are worn to keep us warm, but not all seem to know that they do not communicate warmth to us. but effect their purpose simply by preventing the excessive loss of that heat which is manufactured in our own bodies. Hence, we are warm in incorporation as our clothes are non-conductors of heat." Almost from the first people have tried to make their clothes attractive as well as useful. Most any one can make some kind of covering for the body but it takes thought, a good idea of form and color, and a good seamstress to make clothes that are warm, comfortable, economical, as well as artistic. The first clothing was made by Adam and Eve of fig leaves. From this simple apron has developed our complex clothing. The first requisite of clothing is to cover the body in order to retain the heat during cold weather and to offer protection from excessive heat in warm weather. What materials do we have that most nearly fill this requirement? Tt is generally agreed that wool is better than any of the other materials; loosely woven being better than closely woven because there is more air space, and two thicknesses of light weight are warmer than one heavy weight. One difficulty with wool is its shrinking property which makes care in washing necessary. Underclothes made entirely of wool irritate the skin of some people while a combination of part wool and silk, or wool and cotton, effects no inconvenience. Next to wool as a non-conductor comes silk and then cotton. Silk comes highest in price, wool second, and cotton third. The covering should be distributed evenly over the body with as little weight as will meet the requirements for protection. In taking up clothing for infants  the uppermost thoughts should be comfort and neatness. Even people who have made a special study of the subject disagree as to how much clothing and what kind should be worn. One satisfactory completion is woolen shirt band, stockings, petticoat with sleeves, cotton diaper and a slip of some sheer material as batiste or flaxen. The first few weeks of a baby's life it can be dressed in short, diaper band, stockings and kimona night gown tied down the front. One of the main things in an infant's clothing is to have it dressed warmly with clothing made in such a way that it can be put on with very little handling and turning of the baby. The first few weeks a