[Vol25 | August 1938 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings]

Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon UGUST—Now nears the end of all our plays For just a breath of autumn haze Throws shadows through the golden maize. LEANOR ROOSEVELT'S pet project—''Greenbelt" in Maryland—is now in full swing and apparently thriving.
About seven hundred families, among them a number of Utahns, have taken advantage of the low rent and quiet community life, and now occupy the attractive rows of white houses with their blue shutters and small gardens. The experiment was meant to be a benefit to the small salaried man and seems to be a success. LIZABETH, Queen of England, and all the royal family are in mourning because of the death of the Queen's mother, Nina Cavendish-Bentinck, Countess of Strathmore. MAY AGNES SHANLEY, detective on the New York police force, arrested a pickpocket in a down town store and walked him to the police station, where she discovered her man had been hunted for by the police for ten years in connection with a $20,000 jewelry robbery. Alice MARBLE, Helen Jacobs, Helen Wills Moody, three California: young women walked off with the honors in the Wimbledon tennis tournament this summer. F. PNA HARKER THOMAS, wife of Senator Thomas of Utah, is chairman for the Red Cross Unit of the Senate Ladies. The report of her work is said to show the highest accomplishment since World War days.
Washington papers give her high praise. - ARY NORTON, New Jersey representative in Congress, was perhaps the most gratified of any one over the passage of the "Wage and Hours' Bill. No one worked harder for it. ORMA SHEARER has been selected to play Scarlett O'Hara in the cinema "Gone With The Wind." The public is looking forward to a greater sensation than that made by the book some months ago provided she is equal to the part. CATHARIN E TOHAKWITA, an Indian girl, who worked among the tribes in the United States and Canada in relief and conversion about two centuries ago is to receive beatification. She was known as "Lily of. The Mohawks." OROTHY TIDWELL, twelveyear-old farm girl, proved herself a heroine beyond measure for praise or decoration when she dived into the swollen Mississippi and saved her four younger sisters from a submerged car. ARRIET MONROE since the publication of her autobiography titled "A Poet's Life," has been classed by the critics "The High Priestess of American Poetry."