[Vol25 | August 1938 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Camouflage]

They didn't realize they were the only ones who had ever really scored against Mrs. Bentley. Bek CAMOUFLAGE By Alice Morrey Bailey Gay little dress of flame—crisp— Dancing and flirting Who, looking at you, could guess You hide a heart—hurting? The Children's Reading By Florence Ivins Hyde NO. VII—ETHICAL STORIES. "Could we give one gift to every child We should choose the love of books.* —Wailliam Frederick Bigelow. NE of the most important functions of story telling is to develop ideals. To Latter-day Saints, to whom character development means so much, perhaps it is the most important function. We spend our time and our energy to develop in our children the capacity to distinguish right from wrong and to make them strong enough to choose to do the. Right. Nothing, unless it be pictures, is so important in influencing character in very young children as the stories they hear. The ideals of these early stories become their ideals and if they are not what they should be it takes long and arduous struggle to change them. Plato, the great teacher once said, "In order to teach a child truth, it is necessary to teach him fiction." The greatest teachers of the world, even Christ himself, have used stories to arouse the desire for good conduct. The reason for this is that fiction affects the emotions as no other type of literature does.
Through it we feel what the characters feel, know what they think as well as how they act. If a desirable emotion is made much of, a child comes to glorify that emotion. If base emotions are justified he comes to justify them. For this reason bad fiction, and we have plenty of it, can do irreparable harm. *Courtesy Good Houskeeping Magazine WE give ethical stories to inspire the desire to do some good deed or to develop some desirable quality.
Each time that desire is created it becomes that much more a part of the child's character.
Rhymes appeal to tiny tots even more than stories. To make them want to be polite we hold up a positive ideal such as this: "Peterkin Paul was so very polite That he said to the stones on the street, Excuse me, I pray, for stepping on you, But there's no other place for my feet." Or this from Robert Louis Stevenson: "A child should always say what's true And speak when he is spoken to, And behave mannerly at table, At least, so far as he is able." Or this from Alice Carey: "There are no fairy folk who ride above this world at night, To give you rings or other things to pay for doing right. But if you'll do to others what you'd have them do to you, You'll be as blest as if the best of fairy tales were true." To really affect the emotions a story must be well told. It takes literary art to write good moral stories just as it does to write other types. The exquisitely told story of "The Last Lesson" by Alphonse Daudet would touch the heart of every person, young or old. The facts of a story must touch the heart of the child and quicken his emotions, to be of value.
When he feels this emotional response he tends to emmulate the act depicted in the story. If we wish to make him feel con- 536 tempt for hyprocisy or for dishonesty we must use a method which will call forth a contempt response.
Nothing in literature offers so much material for ethical teaching as the Bible, but we should hunt for other stories which may appear in our general reading. 'The Village Blacksmith" could inspire a boy to be a solid character.
This like any other good ethical story tells the truth.
There are moral stories which do not.
Watch for them. WHEN children are very young we have control over their reading. It is when they begin to grow up that we suddenly discover that they like many things we prefer them not to read.
They even smile at some of the things we think are necessary to give them the cultural background we are so anxious to have them receive.
They are bound to get hold of some poor books but if better things are at hand to go along with them we will observe that by degrees they will begin to develop a descriminating taste.
This is the time to include in reading besides fiction, history and biography. The most important function of any form of moral instruction is to reveal the nature of right and wrong.
History and Biography do that very thing.
They teach us of great men and great deeds as well as of bad men and bad deeds.
From them we learn that we reap as we sow.
Tell more of the emotions of people. Our imagination helps us to put ourselves in the place of the characters and helps us to understand human life, which is basic in the formation of character.
Biography is the moral element in history. A book which stands supreme among biographies-is Mark Autobiographies and fiction. 
 
Twain's "Joan of Arc."
Every adult should feel its inspiration. Mark Twain says of the Maid of Orleans, "Her character is ideally perfect. It occupies the loftiest place possible to human attainment, a loftier one than has been reached by any other mere mortal." N all this attempt to influence the development of character through stories we must remember that the effort is Jargely wasted unless the truth of the story is applied to specific problems, which is the difficult thing to do. In reading such stories as the "Good Samaritan" the principle involved should be applied to present-day needs. It is useless to teach a child that he must be helpful unless we show him the specific things which constitutes helpfulness —as helping the blind across the street, offering help to the car broken down on the road, etc. In teaching courtesy we must point out the fact that he must stand in the presence of ladies, offer his seat ina crowded place to those older than himself, etc.
After a story on neatness a child should be shown that neatness consists in washing the face and hands clean, combing the hair, hanging his towel and wash cloth in place, etc. The story provides the ideal but we have no character development until the act has been performed.
This is the last step in moral teaching—to supply the opportunity to act in the right way. And his act must be voluntary.
Activity has no moral value until he does right voluntarily. The purpose of ethical stories, then, is to develop character. The place for them is the home, the church and the school, but the home has much the advantage over the other two agencies.
Some families have a fine family relationship but THE CHILDREN'S READING the children lack character.
Character has to do with our sense of right and wrong, with our obligations to society, with the motives which control our lives. We are strong or weak according to our ability to live up to the principles that have been established as right in conduct. Mary S.
Becker sums up the qualities of a good book in these words: "A good book is one that enriches your life by developing your mind, widening your experience or enlarging your sympathies. If it does none of these let it alone." Recommended Books For grown-up boys and girls: Robert Louis Stevenson by Balfour. George Washington by Scudder. Abraham Lincoln by Butterworth. Any biography of Frances E. Willard.
Autobiography of Lincoln Steffens. BE For In-Between Age: Boys and Girls Who Became Famous by Sarah K. Bolton.
Captains of Industry by James Parton.
Story of My Life by Helen Keller. Up From Slavery by Booker T. Washington. "Invincible Louisa by Cornelia Meigs.
Good collections of ethical stories are rare. For Very Young Children: Stories For the Bedtime Hour by Margaret W. Eggleston. Ethics For Children by Ella Lyman Cabot.
Neither of these collections is entirely satisfactory. If you have access to a library, however, there are a few fine stories in Ethics For Children. I am of the opinion that some very fine stories could be written from the early missionary experiences of our grandfathers; no stories could better illustrate the virtues of faith, courage, and loyalty. *Very good.