[Vol25 | August 1938 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Guide | Title: Theology and Testimony]

Theology and Testimony
LESSON 2
THE MEDITERRANEAN WORLD IN THE DAYS OF THE APOSTLES?(Cont'd.)
HELPFUL REFERENCES
H. E. Dana, The New Testament World, pages 126-162.
B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, pages 5-24.
J. P. Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, pages 8-14.
T. G. Tucker, Life in the Roman World of Nero and St. Paul, pages 260-337, 361-415.
Education in the Roman World.?We are far too prone to assume that education and scholarship are products of our own age and were not known to any extent in the days of the Apostles. But such assumption is not warranted. Scholarly researches and intellectual achievements were on a very high plane and compare very favorably in many respects with our own age. Even before the advent of Christianity the scientific achievements of the Greeks were remarkable. Sedgwick and Tyler have made the following statement: "In science the Greeks had to build from the foundations. Other peoples had extensive knowledge and highly developed arts. Only among the Greeks existed the true scientific method with its characteristics of free inquiry, rational interpretation, verification or rectification by systematic and repeated observation, and controlled deduction from accepted principles."
Mathematics and mathematical astronomy were the favorite Greek sciences. Next in order came medicine and anatomy, followed by geography, botany and the natural sciences in general. Chemistry was not considered as a science apart, but rather as a necessary stock-in-trade of manufacturers. Luke, the Greek physician, companion of Paul and the writer of the Gospel by his name, and the "Acts," was doubtless well schooled in the sciences and medical lore of his day. Tucker (p. 244) points out that the knowledge and skill of surgeons and physicians of that day were by no means contemptible, and their surgical implements and pharmacopoeia were surprisingly modern. The writer saw surgical implements that were used among the Romans of 79 A. D. While traveling in Italy. To say we were surprised would put it mildly. (See illustration in Tucker, p. 245.)
Physicians and surgeons didn't have the high social standing among the Romans that they have in our society. They, together with attorneys, artists, schoolmasters and clerks belonged to the "common" people, along with bakers, butchers, carpenters and the like. Luke was therefore a "commoner."
Among the Romans literature and oratory were considered the most important subjects from the cultural point of view. The Roman world produced a vast literature. Books were written in great numbers and scribes were specially trained for the task. Greek Universities were established in Rhodes, Tarsus, Alexandria, Marseilles, and Antioch. Alexandria was famous for its great library and museum.
Education was probably not nearly so widespread as today. There were no laws compelling children to go to school; their education depended upon the means and the attitude of the parents. Most of the teachers were men, but women teachers and scholars were by no means unknown.
We cannot pass on to another topic without saying something about philosophy. The unsatisfactory state of most religions in the days of the Apostles caused many persons with superior minds to turn to philosophy for comfort and solace. The impact of Christianity and contemporary philosophy had some interesting results. There can be no doubt but that the current philosophies of the Graeco-Roman world had their share of influence in corrupting the primitive simplicity and purity of the Christian teachings. The pagan influence on the so-called Christianity of post-apostolic days is still reflected in the religious sects and denominations of our western world.
It is necessary for Latter-day Saints who would understand the problems of the ancient Twelve to be conversant with the history of the philosophy of that day. Space forbids us from considering any of the philosophies with the exception of the two most common?Stoicism and Epicureanism. Professor Tucker says that the Stoics were the Pharisees, the Epicureans the Sadducees of pagan philosophy.
Stoicism came to be the characteristic Roman creed. At the time of the Apostles the prevailing philosophy was indeed Stoic in theory but Epicurean in practice. The school of Stoic philosophy was founded by one Zeno of Phoenician descent, who was born in 336 B. C. The school received its name from the place of meeting, the Painted Stoa, a colonnade on the north side of the Athenian market place. Although first taught in Athens the early devotees of Stoicism were generally Greeks who lived outside of Greece proper, in other words Hellenistic Greeks. The practical Stoic belief was of such a nature as to appeal to the grave Roman character and temperament. The stronghold of Stoicism finally came to be Rome. For several centuries the Stoic philosophy became the religion, at least in theory, of nearly all noble and educated Romans. It was expounded and taught by such great writers and thinkers as Cornutus, Lucan, Seneca, Epictetus, and Marcus Aurelius.
The main doctrines of Stoicism have been set down as follows: "Virtue, to the wise man, is the highest good. Fixed laws govern the Universe and these laws express the world-soul, of which the human soul is a part. Goodness is to be found in the true knowledge of nature, and this knowledge is to be won by reason. Wisdom consists in living in accord with nature. The wise man is self-sufficient. Self-control, therefore, is of paramount importance. Serenity of mind is essential, whether in pleasure or pain."
The Stoics denied the seeking of pleasure. If pleasure came it was merely an accompaniment of virtuous conduct.
Epicurus (342-270 B. C.) founded the philosophy named after him. He was of Athenian parentage. In brief, Epicurean philosophy may be explained in the following words: "The universe consists of atoms and void; the atoms are without limit as to number, indestructible and indivisible, and are in perpetual motion in the void.... There are numerous worlds in the universe. The gods exist, it is true, in a realm of their own, but they do not concern themselves with humanity, nor do they rule the world. Consequently man should free his soul of all religious fear and superstition, and likewise of the terror of death. The soul, itself corporeal, perishes with the body, for death ends all. Sensation is alone to be trusted, for it is only through the senses that reality and the truth may be ascertained. Happiness is the chief end of life, and pleasure consists of pleasant sensations. But by this Epicurus did not mean sensuality.... 'Happiness, said Epicurus, 'was to be achieved through freedom from disturbance, by the living of a simple life, and by choosing those pleasures which bring real and permanent contentment to mind and body. Wisdom enables us to make the proper choice.'"
It will be perceived that Epicurean philosophy provided little stimulus or drive to righteous living. Few of its followers could live up to its principles with any zest. The result was that many became lazy, vicious, and made light of vice. It is no surprise therefore that Epicureanism became known as "The philosophy of the pig-sty" even though it did not mean this to its founder.
As we have already indicated Roman philosophy in the days of the Apostles was Stoic in theory but Epicurean in practice. No wonder the ancient Apostles had a tremendous problem in carrying the Gospel to their contemporaries! There were many charlatans and dabblers in philosophy who were despised by the professional Stoic and Epicurean teachers of Athens. For a time Paul could hold the attention of the latter, but when he taught them the doctrine of the resurrection they looked upon him as another of the itinerant quacks who were common to that age. He found in his age what we have found in ours, that it is difficult to teach the Gospel to professionals.
The Family in the Graeco-Roman World?As in most "advanced" civilizations families in the Graeco-Roman world were not very large. The old Hebrew views that "children are an heritage of the Lord" and "happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them," did not prevail over a large territory. The state became so concerned, in fact startled, during the reign of the first emperor Augustus, over the sharp decline in the birth-rate that it penalized persons who remained unmarried or childless and granted special concessions to parents of three or more children. The situation was similar to that which exists in certain European countries at the present time. But the Romans seem to have disregarded the law and it became a more or less dead statute.
While the right of a father to put his children to death was no longer recognized in the age we are describing, it was still legally possible to do away with children that were deformed. Seneca, as quoted by Tucker, says, "We drown our monstrosities." It should not be supposed, however, that the putting away of children was practiced to any considerable degree. We cannot believe that Romans, unlike other people, were without love and affection for their wives and children. In fact the records are numerous that show touching love and affection in many of their families. They remind us of the Biblical citation to the effect that "the iniquity of the Amorites was not yet full."
As contrasted to the position of women among the Jews, however, the women of the Graeco-Roman world were in a relatively low position. The papyri make it plain that divorce was exceedingly frequent. Professor Tucker writes, "Nothing like it has been seen until modern America." Divorce was a matter easily tended to because only a formal notice from either of the contracting parties to the other was needed to dissolve the union. The children of such people were the