LESSON III Literature (Third Week in Noyember) EDGAR LEE MASTERS Our readers will be interested in knowing that Edgar Lee Masters, whose Spoon River is a pioneer form in English literature, is a son of Illinois pioneers. He is not only a great poet, but also a great historian. His love of liberty and his concept of democracy make him an unusual figure in American letters. His love of liberty is hereditary, for his great, great grandfather, Hillary Masters, went off from Wythe county, Virginia to the Revolutionary War. It was in 1847, also, that Mr. Masters' grandfather moved to an Illinois farm that had been surveyed by Lincoln ten years before. In his grandfather's court, Lincoln appeared as an attorney before Judge Masters many times. As an attorney, in Chicago, the law partner of Clarence Darrow, Edgar Lee Masters was earning the equivalent of eighty thousand dollars a year. Sickness, and a growing distaste for his large legal practice, determined him to follow the light of his own soul, One may gain some feeling for the depth of Masters' spiritual understanding from his poem, "Silence." This is gne of the finest poems in American literature. It was published by permission recently in The Deseret News. It may also be found in Doomsday Book, and in Selected Poems (1925). SILENCE I have known the silence of the stars and the sea, And the silence of the city when it pauses, And the silence of man and a maid, And the silence for which music alone finds the word. And the silence of the woods before the winds of sng begin, And the silence of the sick When their eyes roam about the room. And I ask: For the depths, Of what use is language? A beast of the field moans a few times When death takes its young. And we are voiceless in the presence of realities We cannot speak. A curious boy asks an old soldier Sitting in front of the grocery store, "How did you lose your leg?" And the old soldier is struck with silence, Or his mind fies away Because he cannot concentrate it on Gettysburg. It comes back jocosely And he says, "A bear bit it off." And the boy wonders, while the old soldier Dumbly, feebly lives over, The flashes of guns, the thunder of cannon, The shrieks of the slain, And himself lying on the ground; And the hospital surgeons, the knives, And the long days in bed. But if he could describe it all He would be an artist. But if he were an artist, there would be deeper wounds Which he could not describe. There is the silence of a great hatred, And the silence of a great love, And the silence of a deep peace of mind, And the silence of an embittered friendship; There is the silence of a spiritual crisis, Through which your soul, exquisitely tortured, Comes with visions not to be uttered; Into a realm of higher life, And the silence of the gods who understand each other without speech, There is the silence of defeat. And there is the silence of the dead. If we who are in life cannot speak Of profound experiences, Why do you marvel that the dead Do not tell you of death? Their silence shall be interpreted As we approach them.; Masters' gift for divining nobility of character in humble folk is pronounced. He is truly great in that his interest in simple people has not been sacrificed by his knowledge of the classics and the sciences. Great sufferers who bear their burdens silently find a clear voice in Edgar Lee Masters. Witness the following poem from the New Spoon River: 
 Conrap HERRON I wrote no book, Spoon River; I left no library to you; I endowed no school for you; My face is not embossed in bronze In the court-house corridor, As the faces are of Editor Whedon, And Thomas Rhodes, the banker. But did I do nothing for you, Did I leave you no legacy? Is it worth nothing to you That, dying with cancer I endured with fortitude and patience? Even the simple little kitchen slave, "Slip Shoe Lovey," is not too mean for interpretation. This poem, too long to quote here in full, may be found in Selected Poems, 1925. Stipe SHOE LOVEY You're the cook's understudy A gentle idiot body. You are slender like a broom Weaving up and down the room, With your dirt hair in a twist And your left éye in a mist, Never thinkin', never hopin' With your wet mouth always open. So bewildered and so busy As you scrape the dirty kettles, O Slip Shoe Lizzie, As you rattle with the pans. In the 1926 Selection of Best American Verse is a delightful poem of Masters entitled "Contentment." It could not be quoted here since the book is not available. It originally appeared in The Mercury. Those readers of Masters, whose acquaintance with his books is limited to his Spoon River and his novels, will have many delightful moments with his earlier lyrics. In Songs and 'Satires, he published the following delightful poems about his little daughters. (They are republished in Selected Poems, 1925:) MADELINE I almost heard your little heart Begin to beat, and since that hour 'Your life has grown apace and blossomed, Fed by the same miraculous power You sleep. I wait to see you wake, With wonder-eyes and hands that reach. I laugh to hear your thoughts that gather Too fast on your budding lips for speech. Now all day your steps are a-patter. And made your heart begin to beat. That moved the rivulet of your life, Oh, what swift and musical feet! Your sunny hair is cut as if *Twere trimmed around a yellow crock. How gay the ribbon, and oh, how cunning The flaring skirt of the little frock! Why do you never tire of playing, Or cease from mischief, or cease from noise? You build and play and search and pry, And hunt for dolls and forgotten toys. You will not sleep? You are tired of the house? You are just as naughty as you can be. Madeline, Madeline, come to the garden, And play with Marcia under the tree! MARCIA Madeline's hair is straight, and yours Is just as curly as tendril vines; And she is fair, but a deeper color Your cheeks of olive incarnadines. A serious wisdom burns and glows Steadily in your dark-eyed look. Already a wit and a little stoic— Perhaps you are going to write a book. Or paint a picture, or sing, or act The part of Katherine-or Juliet. [ believe you were born with the gift of knowing When to remember and when to forget. And when to stifle and kill a grief, And clutch your heart when it beats in vain. The heart that has most strength for feeling Must have the strength to conquer the pain. You understand? It seems that you do— Though you cannot utter a word to me. Marcia, Marcia, look at Madeline Building a doll-house under the tree! 
 Utah people who are interested in pioneer novels would do well to become acquainted with Masters' stories since they deal with the pioneers of the Middle West and their descendants. Masters revived interest in Stephen A. Douglas (Lincoln's opponent), in his Children of the Market Place. The Mirage, the Nuptual Flight, and Mitch Miller, all weave about the pioneer families. His latest novel Kit O'Brien is just off the press. It is a most delightful boy's story, as clever as Tom Sawyer in the matter of magic. It has all the charm of the pioneer people who have ipassed away, and it is of the most unusual interest for Utah writers who would preserve something of the flavor of early Utah days. (Boni and Liveright, publishers, 1927.) One of the finest tributes ever paid to a parent was uttered by Edgar Lee Masters as he stood beside the open grave of his own father a short time ago in a little Illinois cemetery. It may 'never appear as a literary contribution, but it is so beautiful that it is given here. Mr. Masters said: "If, before coming into this world, I could have chosen my father with all the understanding I have today, he is the man I would have chosen. Whatever I have inherited from him in strength, or health, or gifts, or understanding of life, I count as more precious than all the riches in the world." (Read address on Edgar Lee Masters, published in the Magazine, for additional information on Spoon River.) (Books of Edgar Lee Masters recommended for reading: Selected Poems, 1925; magazine articles and._poems in various volumes of The Mercury. Of his novels: Kit O'Brien and Children of the Market Place; Mitch Miller; Historical Poems; Lee, A Dramatic Poem.) \ Questions and Problems 1. State in your own words what Masters means in this line in "Silence:" 'For the depths, of what use is language?" 2. Tell the effect of "Silence" on you. 3. What do you understand to be the poet's meaning in this line: "Their silence shall be interpreted as we approach them." 4, What is your reaction to his brief for the sufferer of cancer? 5. What philosophical quality is most dominant in the poems you have read of Masters? 6. Tell in your own words your understanding of fatherhood that Masters exhibits in his poems, "Marcia, and "Madeline." 7. Is "Slip Shoe Lovey" worth your study at all? 8. From Masters' statement about his father, what principles of sterling value must that departed father have instilled into one of our greatest poets? 9. Read address published in the Magazine that was made to Relief Society on Edgar Lee Masters as a poet. Published in the Relief Society Magazine, June issue, 1927.: