[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Skimping | Author: Nielsen]
[Skimping on SpirituaUty Helen A. Nielsen]
RELIEF  SOCIETY  RESPONSIBILITIES 
647 
ance,  grieve  and  oppress  needlessly,  those 
unfortunate  ones — even  these  should  be 
encouraged  to  hereafter  live  to  be  hon- 
ored by  this  society,  who  are  the  best 
portions  of  the  community.  Said  he  had 
two  things  to  recommend  to  the  mem- 
bers of  this  society,  to  put  a  double  watch 
over  the  tongue:  no  organized  body  can 
exist  without  this  at  all.  All  organized 
bodies  have  their  peculiar  evils,  weak- 
nesses  and    difficulties,    the    object    is    to 
make  those  not  so  good  reform  and  re- 
turn to  the  path  of  virtue  that  they  may 
be  numbered  with  the  good,  and  even 
hold  the  keys  of  power,  which  will 
influence  to  virtue  and  goodness — shomld 
chasten  and  repro\'e  and  keep  it  all  in 
silence,  not  even  mention  them  again; 
then  you  will  be  established  in  power,  vir- 
tue, and  holiness,  and  the  wrath  of  God 
will  be  turned  away  (Teachings  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  pages  238-239). 
U 
d  (jiarvest 
nconsutne 
Mabel  Jones  Gahhott 
The  acrid  pungency  of  burning  brush 
Had  found  me  in  the  field;  across  the  wide 
Valley  the  lazy  smoke  floated  in  the  hush 
Of  Indian  summer  in  the  countryside; 
My  work  was  ending,  houred  by  the  rays 
Of  the  earth-bronzed  sun;  distantly  I  heard 
The  homing  note  a  clanging  cowbell  plays 
In  the  evening  hum  of  insect,  frog,  and  bird. 
I  looked  up  from  my  task  to  yellow  fields, 
Pastures  new-plowed,  a  tufted  hilltop  red 
With  autumn,  and  the  waiting  abundant  yields 
Of  thick  ripe  stalks  of  buckwheat;  I  was  fed 
From  crops  tomorrow  uould  not  measure.  Though  rains 
And  drifting  snows  will  bring  the  long  white  night, 
A  harvest  unconsumcd  always  remains — 
This  garnering  of  smell  and  sound  and  sight. 
(bkimping  on  (bpirituaiit^ 
Helen  A.  Nielsen 
AN  old  adage  says:  "Wear  it  out,  use  it  up,  make  it  do."    The  adage  referred  to  ma- 
-^*-     terial  things.     Frugality  and  thrift  have  been  a  part  of  Latter-day  Saint  ways. 
Economy  is  considered  a  virtue.  And  so  it  is,  if  it  pertains  to  things  of  the  world  and 
not  of  the  spirit.  It  may  be  necessary  to  make  a  dress  from  less  material  than  would 
be  desirable.  It  may  be  necessary  to  use  top  milk  when  cream  would  be  better.  But 
it  is  never  necessary  to  skimp  on  things  of  the  spirit.  We  only  have  to  ask,  and  it 
shall  be  given  to  us,  we  can  ask  for  the  Lord's  Spirit  and  expect  it. 
Peace  and  Joyousness  can  be  ours.  Prayer,  scripture  reading,  partaking  of  the 
sacrament,  keeping  good  company,  and  Church  activity,  all  help  to  insure  an  abun- 
"dance  of  the  Holy  Spirit.     Let's  not  skimp  on  spirituality.

The  International  Council  of 
Women  Conference  at 
Helsinki,  Finland,  June  1954 
Piesident  Belle  S.  Spafford 
IT  
is  with  pleasure  that  I  bring  women  of  all  races,  many  nations, 
to   Relief    Society   members   a  creeds,  and  classes,  in  the  belief  that 
report   of    the   recent   Interna-  the  good  of  humanity  and  the  well- 
tional  Council  of  Women  Confer-  being  of  the  home  and  the  family 
ence  with  a  brief  mention  of  my  will  be  advanced  by  a  greater  unity 
other  very  delightful  experiences  in  of  thought,  purpose,  and  action  on 
Europe.  the  part  of  organized  women. 
Finland,   far  to  the  north,  with  The  Council  aims  to  present  fac- 
its    limitless    forests,    blue    inland  tual  data  in  its  efforts  to  focus  the 
lakes,  long,  bright  summer  nights,  attention   of  organized  women   on 
and  modest,  hospitable  people,  is  an  matters  related  to  family  and  com- 
interesting    land.       Helsinki,     Fm-  munity   life,   and   to   encourage  ef- 
land's  beautiful  capital  city,  with  a  forts  to  correct  unfavorable  condi- 
population  of  400,000  people,  has  tions,  as  well  as  to  chart  courses  that 
preserved  much  of  its  old  character,  will  promote  the  well-being  of  the 
yet  amazes  one  with  much  that  is  home  and  society.     Resolutions  de- 
new   and   modern.     Its   fruit,   fish,  signed    to   aid    in    the   accomplish- 
flower,     and     vegetable      markets,  ment  of  the  aims  of  the  Council  are 
swarming  with  people,  capture  the  drawn  up  and  voted   upon  at  the 
interest  of  the  visitor  who  may  also  triennial    meetings.     However,    no 
shop    in    its    modern    department  member  National  Council  can  be 
stores,  visit  its  new  and  up-to-date  committed,    in    any    case,    to    any 
educational  and  social  institutions,  cause   or    project   by    International 
and  be  housed  in  as  modern  and  Council  action,  except  by  its  own
