[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
irons seem to do better work with less effort than do either the feather weight or very heavy ones. Your choice will depend some upon whether you will have just a general purpose iron, or both a regular and a steam iron. Many growing children have never learned to like to iron because selection of ironing equipment suitable to their needs was never considered. Regular irons require little special care other than protecting them from falling, being scratched, or otherwise marred. 'The cord must be kept away from the hot iron and should never be wrapped tightly about it. This wears it out and the wires inside the cord are shorted, often causing a fire or serious accident. Steam irons do require certain care for long life and top performance. Distilled water is recommended for use in them. If regular water must be used, occasionally fill the iron with distilled vinegar, let it steam for about fifteen minutes, then let it remain in the iron over night. Drain and rinse thoroughly with tap water. Dry before storing it. Ordinarily, steam irons are emptied after each use, preferably while the iron is still hot, so that the iron heat will evaporate the few drops of moisture that may be left. Overheating shortens the life of all irons. Every piece of electrical equipment should carry an underwriter's laboratory's seal of safety. The manner in which different temperatures are indicated and the way they are regulated may help to make an iron a safe or unsafe piece of equipment to use. Lack of sufficient safety features has disqualified more irons from the acceptable list than any other single feature. An ironer can be a real time and labor saver. Some women are afraid they could not use an ironer safely and efficiently, while others have never developed skill in using their ironers. Learning new skills and abandonment of old habits require time, patience, and perseverance. Begin by ironing only flat pieces until you understand the mechanics of your machine, then do the more intricate pieces a few at a time. Soon you will find that you can do almost your entire lroning on your ironer without becomPage 697 698 ing fatigued, and in only a fraction of the time it previously required. Ironers are of two general types, rotary and flat plate. All ironers have thermostats to regulate the temperature to suit the fabric on which you are working. Some have two thermostats, so you need heat only half the ironer when doing small things. Before buying an ironer, sit down to it, see if you can operate the various controls, and reach all the parts without undue strain. Special features, such as small folding end shelves, clothes bars, special work lights, and certain automatic features, add materially to the cost of an ironer, yet are of no great significance to the user. Select the kind of equipment that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 will permit and encourage all family members to use and enjoy it, that will safeguard the health, and that will aid in the development of good work habits among the family members. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What are the contributing factors in making ironing enjoyable? 2. Discuss the importance of teaching your daughters good ironing techniques, such as: sorting clothes before ironing, placing articles requiring about the same amount of heat together; doing flimsy, quickly dried things first; sitting on a comfortable chair with feet flat on the floor, and back supported; keeping damp sponge near; hangers; clothes rack, etc. 3. What suggestions can you make to increase the efficiency of your ironing? Literature—Literature of England Lesson 44—Emily Bronte (1818-1848) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 716-720) For Tuesday, January 18, 1955 - Objective: To gain an insight into the inner life of Emily Bronte and to appreciate her suffering, courage, and power. God will not make himself manifest to cowards. No coward soul is mine, —Ralph Waldo Emerson No trembler in the world's storm-troubled sphere; I see Heaven's glories shine, And faith shines equal, arming me from fear. The Book of Psalms asks of God, "What is man, that thou art mindful of him?" With profit we might well address to ourselves—to each other — the same piercing query. Who will meet the question just after having met Emily Bronte, this —Emily Bronte (text, page 720) fearless soul who raises more questions about life than she answers, and provokes us to do likewise? Few would fail to agree that Emily Bronte is one of the two greatest women poets in English literature, and her Wuthering Heights is con- LESSON DEPARTMENT ceded to be one of the most powerful novels of all time. Her only life is the inner one, a life deep and entangled and dominant within her. Most of us have such an inner life, but few of us can define ourselves for what we are, and express our inner findings in communicable and artistic form. Once drinking deep of that divinest anguish, How could I seek the empty world again? (text, page 718, lines 31-32). So ends the poem "Remembrance," in which she states truth so innocently and purely that here, as in her other poems, and in her novel, her truth becomes a tie common to all mankind. Yes, indeed, her outward world was empty; her physical existence was the most barren and monotonous of all modern writers of stature. Yet ironically it was in this grim, gray straitjacket of sterile isolation that her human anguish grew during her twenty years of writing to such power and depth, that her own phrase "divine anguish" may be fairly applied. As will be recalled from our study of Charlotte Bronte, last year, Emily's sociable, friendly sister, the Bronte children spent their lives in complete isolation at Haworth Parsonage, miles from any other house on the bleak moors of Yorkshire. They were well fed and clothed, but their father—embittered possibly, by having his own hopes for eminence in literature and in church politics wither, possibly embittered also by being left a young widower with six children—removed himself to his study where he took his meals, read, and wrote, while all his children, particularly the strong, im- 699 passioned Emily, became so starved for affection and human security that they became desperate. When Emily was eleven, Charlotte led the children in creating the imaginary kingdom of Angria, luxurious, romantic, florid with knights and ladies, adventure, and love. When Charlotte left for school, her brother Branwell claimed leadership. In rebellion, Emily withdrew with Anne, her younger sister, and together they created the imaginary world of Gondal, a bleak island in the North Pacific, counterpart to their own beloved Yorkshire moors. Many of her best poems first appeared in the Gondal cycle, and her great achievement, Wuthering Heights, is but an imaginative continuation of her Gondal writings, all of which are lost save the few poems. For us moderns who have the happenings of the world at our door each morning — nay, each quarter hour—who as a commonplace drive a thousand miles for a vacation or a holiday visit, and fly across a continent overnight, the isolation of our pioneer fathers in time and space seems almost deadly. Yet Emily knew no social comforts: no group affiliation other than attending church, no childhood friends outside the home, no newspaper, no magazines, no liberation through travel, save for eight months in Brussels in her teens. From age seven to sixteen Emily never left Haworth; when she did it almost killed her, so lonesome was she for her pattern of complete freedom within her inner life. During the last seven years of her life she left Haworth only for a few days. Emily was not timid (far from it, 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 Pe 6 O90. THE FOUR BRONTES—EMILY, CHARLOTTE, BRANWELL, AND ANNE Lone From a Painting by Branwell as her writings prove), nor was she afraid, for one day she subdued a savage bulldog with her bare hands. It was just that, for Emily, who most wanted and needed love and human companionship, living in a vacuum came to be the unbearable cruelty. And in her concealed, stoic pride, she refused to beg life for bread, only to receive the familiar stone of being neglected, unloved, cut off from any chance of realizing in this life the identity only loved people know. In her poem "I Am the Only Being," she tells how she suffered, and fought with her pride: I am the only being whose doom No tongue would ask, no eye would mourn;. I've never caused a thought of gloom, A smile of joy, since I was born, In secret pleasure, secret tears, This changeful life has slipped away As friendless after eighteen years As lone as on my natal day. There have been times I cannot hide, There have been times when this was drear, When my sad soul forgot its pride And longed for one to love me here. In "A Little While" (text, page 719) she tells how her "harassed heart" longs for her dreary, barren home: The house is old, the trees are bare, Moonless above bends _ twilight's dome; But what on earth is half so dear— So longed for—as the hearth of home? (lines 12-16) Thus cut off from her own true nature, Emily found escape and reality in the rugged moors about her, and in her imagination. Here — was a realm:... Where guile, and hate, and doubt, And cold suspicion never rise; Where thou [Imagination], and I, and Liberty, Have undisputed sovereignty. "To Imagination" (page 718, lines 8-12) LESSON DEPARTMENT Early in her life, and throughout, Emily was terrifyingly aware of the price she paid each hour for daring to be aware of what life could be, and then comparing it to what her life was. But though the calloused world of self-interest and indifference did nothing to give her a sense of belonging, leaving her to eat out her heart in cold, empty rooms, she could not contain herself, just as she could not complain in _ bitterness. In her stark, magnificent "The Gid Stoic," (text, pagesj2o) she asks for her heart's desire: In life and death a chainless soul, With courage to endure. (lines 11-12) Because the institutions of society —stern home, exclusive school, entrenched, self-justifying government, expedient, belligerent church—had never given her substance, she felt it necessary to escape from them— 701 escape not above or beyond, but more deeply within. Though she promised to walk "where my own nature would be leading," ignoring thie. Visions rising, legion after legion, [which] Bring the unreal world too strangely near. "Often Rebuked, Yet Always Back Returning," (page 720, lines 7-8) She increasingly finds sustenance in other-worldly communications of the spirit. In "The Visionary" she defies all restraints to prevent her finding spiritual peace: The little lamp burns straight, its rays shoot strong and far: I trim it well, to be the wanderer's guidingstar. Frown, my haughty sire; chide, my angry dame! Set your slaves to spy; threaten me with shame: As It Was in the Time of the Brontes 702 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 But neither sire nor dame, nor prying serf shall know What angel nightly tracks that waste of frozen snow. In "The Prisoner," also unfortunately not in our text, she tells of a beautiful woman prisoner: her face soft and mild As sculptured marble saint, or slumbering unweaned child.... Who defies the jailor and his bolts and irons to "hold her long": Still, let my tyrants know, I am_ not doomed to wear Year after year in gloom, and desolate despair; A messenger of Hope comes every night to me, And offers for short life, eternal liberty. She then tells how the messenger comes: But, first, a hush of peace—a soundless calm descends; The struggle of distress and fierce impatience ends; Mute music soothes my breast—unuttered harmony, That I could never dream, till Earth was lost to me. Then dawns the Invisible; the Unseen its truth reveals; My outward sense is gone, my inward essence feels: Its wings are almost free—its home, its harbor found, Measuring the gulf, its stoops—and dares the final bound. Dreadful is the check—intense the agony— When the ear begins to hear, and the eye begins to see; When the pulse begins to throb, the brain to think again; The soul to feel the flesh, and the flesh to feel the chain. Oh! Yet I would lose no sting, would wish no torture less, The more that anguish racks, the earlier it will bl