[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Jacobs]
[Visiting Teacher Messages: "For That Same Spirit Which Doth Possess Your Bodies" Leone O. Jacobs]
Visiting  cJeacher  //Les sages 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  28—".  .  .   For  That  Same  Spirit  Which   Doth   Possess  Your  Bodies 
at  the  Time  That  Ye  Go  Out  of  This  Life,  That  Same  Spirit  Will  Have 
Power  to  Possess  Your  Body  in  That  Eternal  World"  (Alma  34:34). 
Leone  O.  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  January  4,  1955 
Objective:     To  point  out  that  whatever  spirit  possesses  our  bodies  in  this  life 
will  be  with  us  after  death. 
A  FTER  ALMA  had  urged  the 
people  to  plant  the  word  of 
God  in  their  hearts,  so  that  they 
would  believe  in  Christ,  Amulek, 
his  companion,  expressed  deep  con- 
cern for  the  welfare  of  others  as  is 
shown  by  the  fervor  with  which  he 
pleaded  with  his  brethren  to  rid 
themselves  of  sin  while  they  were 
yet  in  mortality. 
We  often  hear  people  say,  ''Oh, 
when  I  get  on  the  other  side  I  will 
find  out  what  is  really  true,  and  then 
I  will  do  something  about  it."  Some- 
how they  surmise  that  they  will  see 
things  differently  after  death,  be 
able  more  readily  to  discern  the 
truth,  and  have  a  better  opportunity 
to  prove  and  weigh  matters.  Then, 
when  they  are  convinced,  they  be- 
lieve they  can  easily  and  quickly 
remedy  their  habits  to  conform  to 
the  right  pattern. 
Nothing  could  be  farther  from 
the  truth!  Amulek  tells  us  that  after 
death  we  will  possess  the  same  spirit, 
which  would  infer  that  we  will  have 
the  same  attitudes  and  outlook  as 
we  had  here  in  mortality. 
Men  won't  know  any  more  when  they 
are  dead  than  when  they  are  living.  .  .  . 
Page  696 
They  will  not  understand  the  truths  of 
the  Gospel  only  by  the  same  process  as 
they  understand  and  comprehend  them 
here  (Melvin  J.  Ballard:  Three  Degrees 
of  Glory,  page  25). 
If  we  have  been  skeptical  or  indif- 
ferent here,  those  qualities  will  still 
be  with  us  in  that  eternal  world. 
We  will  retain  the  same  habits  and 
dispositions  which  comprised  our 
natures  here.  We  shall  not  miracu- 
lously shed  any  traits  of  character, 
any  faults  or  weaknesses  bv  virtue 
of  passing  through  the  portals  of 
death. 
Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard  gives  us 
his  opinion  on  this  subject  in  the 
Three  Degrees  oi  Glory: 
Do  not  let  any  of  us  imagine  that  we 
can  go  down  to  the  gra\'e  not  having  over- 
come the  corruptions  of  the  flesh  and  then 
lose  in  the  grave  all  our  sins  and  evil 
tendencies.  ...  It  is  much  easier  to 
overcome  and  serve  the  Lord  when  both 
flesh  and  spirit  are  combined  as  one  .  .  . 
(pp.   14,  25). 
This  urgent  appeal  to  improve 
our  lives  while  the  opportunity  is 
available  and  most  productive  should 
stir  us  to  action.