[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Lets | Author: Williams]
[Let's Get Rady for Christmas Helen S. Williams]
LETS  GET  READY  FOR  CHRISTMAS 
673 
BONNET  PATTERN 
Measurements  for  the  bonnet  may  be  altered  to  suit  various  head  sizes.  The  pat- 
tern measurements  given  here  are  1 3  '/2  inches  from  the  point  of  the  triangle  to  the 
edge  of  the  brim;  i-^Vi  inches  from  point  to  point  of  the  triangle;  and  from  side  to 
side  of  the  brim  (widest  part)   i^Vi  inches. 
«  ♦ 
cents.  They  are  a  little  less  than  an  inch  wide  and  just  long  enough  to  cross  at  the 
front  of  the  neck.  They  are  not  to  be  tied.  Shells,  sequins,  or  httle  tinkling  bells  have 
been  stitched  on  them.  Make  them  in  white,  blue,  or  any  color.  They  will  delight  any 
young  girl  because  they  are  so  smart  and  so  different  and  are  an  attractive  accessory  for 
sweaters  or  most  any  outfit. 
At  either  side  of  the  gift  table,  you  will  see  half  circles  of  felt.  These  are  aprons. 
Again,  they  have  been  cut  with  pinking  shears,  so  they  need  no  finishing.  The  ap- 
pliqued  figures  are  cut  from  contrasting  colored  felt,  and  the  patterns  for  these  cunning 
figures  were  taken  from  a  child's  coloring  book.  The  felt  cutouts  may  either  be  stitched 
or  glued  on  to  the  apron  in  any  design  desired.  The  bands  are  of  grosgrain  ribbon. 
These  felt  aprons  are  useful  and  different,  yet  easily  made. 
What  little  one  wouldn't  "Oh,"  and  "Ah,"  to  be  the  recipient  of  a  glazed  chintz 
crayon  apron?  Of  course,  the  measurements  depend  upon  the  size  of  the  little  one  for 
whom  it  is  made.  The  material  should  be  at  least  twenty-one  inches  wide  and  about 
sixteen  inches  long.     The  felt  waistband  and  crayon  holder  is  two  inches  wide.     Be

674  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1954 
sure  to  leave  plenty  of  felt  to  tie  a  perky  bow  at  the  back.  Stitch  the  spaces  that  are 
to  hold  the  large  size  crayons  on  the  machine.  The  crayons  must  fit  snuggly  into  the 
spaces  so  they  won't  slip.  Of  course,  with  each  apron  must  go  a  big,  big  coloring  book 
with  beautiful  pictures  to  color. 
There  are  two  small  jewel  boxes  that  are  made  of  plastic.  Do  you  find  them  in 
the  picture  near  the  centerpiece?  The  pearls  which  made  them  so  luxurious  are  bought 
by  the  yard  at  the  five  and  dime  store.  Each  row  is  cut  separately  and  applied  with 
Amco  glue.  Then,  right  in  the  center,  is  set  a  large  artificial  gem  which  has  been 
saved  from  the  one  earring  that  didn't  get  lost.  These  little  jewel  boxes  are  jewels  in 
and  of  themselves  and  they  will  add  glamor  and  beauty  to  any  dressing  table  or  chest
