[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Special Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Jardine]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Rolls Are Rising! Winnifred C. Jardine]
features  has  disqualified  more  irons 
from  the  acceptable  list  than  any 
other  single  feature. 
An  ironer  can  be  a  real  time  and 
labor  sa\er.  Some  women  are 
afraid  they  could  not  use  an  ironer 
safelv  and  efficiently,  while  others 
ha\e  ne\er  de\eloped  skill  in  using 
their  ironers.  Learning  new  skills 
and  abandonment  of  old  habits  re- 
quire time,  patience,  and  persever- 
ance. Begin  by  ironing  only  flat 
pieces  until  you  understand  the 
mechanics  of  your  machine,  then 
do  the  more  intricate  pieces  a  few 
at  a  time.  Soon  you  will  find  that 
you  can  do  almost  your  entire  iron- 
ing on  your  ironer  without  becom-

698 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1954 
ing  fatigued,  and  in  only  a  fraction 
of  the  time  it  previously  required. 
Ironers  are  of  two  general  types, 
rotary  and  flat  plate.  All  ironers  have 
thermostats  to  regulate  the  tempera- 
ture to  suit  the  fabric  on  which  you 
are  working.  Some  have  two  ther- 
mostats, so  you  need  heat  only  half 
the  ironer  when  doing  small  things. 
Befoi:e  buying  an  ironer,  sit  down 
to  it,  see  if  you  can  operate  the  vari- 
ous controls,  and  reach  all  the  parts 
without  undue  strain. 
Special  features,  such  as  small 
folding  end  shelves,  clothes  bars, 
special  work  lights,  and  certain  auto- 
matic features,  add  materially  to  the 
cost  of  an  ironer,  yet  are  of  no  great 
significance  to  the  user. 
Select  the  kind  of  equipment  that 
will  permit  and  encourage  all  fam- 
ily members  to  use  and  enjoy  it, 
that  will  safeguard  the  health,  and 
that  will  aid  in  the  development  of 
good  work  habits  among  the  family 
members. 
Thoughts  for  Discussion 
1.  What  are  the  contributing  factors  in 
making  ironing  enjoyable? 
2.  Discuss  the  importance  of  teaching 
your  daughters  good  ironing  techniques, 
such  as:  sorting  clothes  before  ironing, 
placing  articles  requiring  about  the  same 
amount  of  heat  together;  doing  flimsy, 
quickly  dried  things  first;  sitting  on  a 
comfortable  chair  with  feet  flat  on  the 
floor,  and  back  supported;  keeping  damp 
sponge  near;  hangers;  clothes  rack,  etc. 
3.  What  suggestions  can  you  make  to 
increase  the  efficiency  of  your  ironing? 
JLiterature — Literature  of  England 
Lesson   44— Emily   Bronte   (1818-1848) 
Elder  Brian t  S.  Jacobs 
(Textbook:     The  Literatiue  oi  England,  U,  Woods,  Watt,  Anderson,  pp.  716-720) 
For  Tuesday,  January  18,  1955 
•  Objective:  To  gain  an  insight  into  the  inner  life  of  Emily  Bronte  and  to  appreci- 
ate her  suffering,  courage,  and  power, 
God    will    not    make    himself    manifest    to    cowards. 
— Ralph  Waldo  Emerson 
No  coward  soul  is  mine. 
No  trembler  in  the  world's  storm-troubled  sphere; 
I  see  Heaven's  glories  shine. 
And   faith   shines   equal,   arming   me  from   fear. 
— Emily  Bronte  (text,  page  720) 
The  Book  of  Psalms  asks  of  God,  fearless  soul  who  raises  more  ques- 
''What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mind-  tions  about  life  than  she  answers, 
ful  of  him?"  With  profit  we  might  and  provokes  us  to  do  likewise? 
well  address  to  ourselves— to  each  Few  would  fail  to  agree  that  Em- 
other  —  the  same  piercing  query,  ily  Bronte  is  one  of  the  two  greatest 
Who  will  meet  the  question  just  women  poets  in  English  literature, 
after  having  met  Emily  Bronte,  this  and  her  Wutheiing  Heights  is  con-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
699 
ceded  to  be  one  of  the  most  power- 
ful novels  of  all  time.  Her  onlv 
life  is  the  inner  one,  a  life  deep 
and  entangled  and  dominant  within 
her.  Most  of  us  have  such  an  inner 
life,  but  few  of  us  can  define  our- 
selves for  what  we  are,  and  express 
our  inner  findings  in  communicable 
and  artistic  form. 
Once  drinking  deep  of  that 
divinest  anguish, 
How  could  I  seek  the  empty 
world  again? 
(text,  page  718,  lines  31-32). 
So  ends  the  poem  ''Remem- 
brance/' in  which  she  states  truth 
so  innocently  and  purely  that  here, 
as  in  her  other  poems,  and  in  her 
novel,  her  truth  becomes  a  tie  com- 
mon to  all  mankind.  Yes,  indeed, 
her  outward  world  was  empty;  her 
physical  existence  was  the  most 
barren  and  monotonous  of  all  mod- 
ern writers  of  stature.  Yet  ironically 
it  was  in  this  grim,  gray  straitjacket 
of  sterile  isolation  that  her  human 
anguish  grew  during  her  twenty 
years  of  writing  to  such  power  and 
depth,  that  her  own  phrase  ''divine 
anguish"  may  be  fairly  applied. 
As  will  be  recalled  from  our  study 
of  Charlotte  Bronte,  last  year,  Emi- 
ly's sociable,  friendly  sister,  the 
Bronte  children  spent  their  lives  in 
complete  isolation  at  Haworth  Par- 
sonage, miles  from  any  other  house 
on  the  bleak  moors  of  Yorkshire. 
They  were  well  fed  and  clothed, 
but  their  father— embittered  pos- 
sibly, by  having  his  own  hopes  for 
eminence  in  literature  and  in  church 
politics  wither,  possibly  embittered 
also  by  being  left  a  young  widower 
with  six  children— removed  himself 
to  his  study  where  he  took  his  meals, 
read,  and  wrote,  while  all  his  chil- 
dren,   particularly    the    strong,    im- 
passioned Emily,  became  so  starved 
for  affection  and  human  security 
that  they  became  desperate.  When 
Emily  was  eleven,  Charlotte  led  the 
children  in  creating  the  imaginary 
kingdom  of  Angria,  luxurious,  ro- 
mantic, florid  with  knights  and  la- 
dies, adventure,  and  love. 
When  Charlotte  left  for  school, 
her  brother  Branwell  claimed  leader- 
ship. In  rebellion,  Emily  withdrew 
with  Anne,  her  younger  sister,  and 
together  they  created  the  imaginary 
world  of  Gondal,  a  bleak  island  in 
the  North  Pacific,  counterpart  to 
their  own  beloved  Yorkshire  moors. 
Many  of  her  best  poems  first  ap- 
peared in  the  Gondal  cycle,  and 
her  great  achievement,  V^uihtimg 
Heights,  is  but  an  imaginative  con- 
tinuation of  her  Gondal  writings, 
all  of  which  are  lost  save  the  few 
poems. 
For  us  moderns  who  have  the 
happenings  of  the  world  at  our  door 
each  morning  —  nay,  each  quarter 
hour— who  as  a  commonplace  drive 
a  thousand  miles  for  a  vacation  or 
a  holiday  visit,  and  fly  across  a  con- 
tinent overnight,  the  isolation  of 
our  pioneer  fathers  in  time  and 
space  seems  almost  deadly.  Yet 
Emily  knew  no  social  comforts:  no 
group  affiliation  other  than  attend- 
ing church,  no  childhood  friends 
outside  the  home,  no  newspaper, 
no  magazines,  no  liberation  through 
travel,  save  for  eight  months  in 
Brussels  in  her  teens.  From  age 
seven  to  sixteen  Emily  never  left 
Haworth;  when  she  did  it  almost 
killed  her,  so  lonesome  was  she  for 
her  pattern  of  complete  freedom 
within  her  inner  life.  During  the 
last  seven  years  of  her  life  she  left 
Haworth  only  for  a  few  days. 
Emily  was  not  timid  (far  from  it,