[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Lesson | Title: The]
Bowen Text: Your Rugged Constitution ( Y. R. C.) pp. 112-155; The Constitution of the United States, Its Sources and Its Application (C. Of U. S.), pp. 99-153 For Tuesday, January 25, 1955 Objective: To consider the powers, functions, offices and purposese of the Executive and Judicial Departments and their relation to the Legislative Department and to each other. Also to consider the great doctrine of "Judicial Review." The Executive Department (Y. R. C., pp. 112-141; C. Of U. S., pp. 99- 129) RTICLE IT of the Constitution provides for the Executive Department of the Government. 'These provisions were the subject of much debate. At the beginning of the Constitutional Convention — there was no clear-cut plan formulated. However, it was agreed by all the framers that there was imperative need for a national executive authority. Lack of a national executive under the Articles of Confederation was one of the fundamental weaknesses of the Confederation. Section I of Article II vests the executive authority of the Government in the President of the United States of America. His term of office is fixed at four years, as is the term of the Vice-President. The offices of President and VicePresident were made elective, not by direct ballot, but by electors. The Presidential electors are appointed or elected by a method determined by the legislatures of each state, and they equal the number of members of Congress, both Senators and Representatives, to which such state is entitled. Onginally, the Constitution provided that the electors (see Y. R. C., pp. 114-115) of each state should vote for two persons, the one having the highest number of votes of the total Electoral College was to be designated as President; and the one having the lesser number should be the Vice-President. (Y. R. C., pp. 114-117; C. Of U. S., pp. 103- 105). In case of a tie vote, the House of Representatives chose which of the two should be President. The Constitution provided for this method of electing the President and Vice-President until the adoption of the Twelfth Amendment in 1804. The reasons for the adoption of the Twelfth Amendment will be considered in a later lesson. Congress fixes by law the time of choosing the electors and the LESSON DEPARTMENT day on which they shall vote, which must be the same day throughout the United States. To hold the office of President, the candidate must be a_naturalborn citizen and must be at least thirty-five years of age and be a resident of the United States for at least fourteen years. In case of his removal, death, resignation, or inability to discharge the office of President, the VicePresident shall be President, and Congress by law has power to designate the succession to the office of President, when also the VicePresident is no longer able to fill the Presidency. The President receives compensation for his services and the compensation he receives may not be increased or diminished during his term of office. He is also prohibited from receiving any other salary or emoluments from the United States or any of them during his term of office. Article II, section I, clause § reads: Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he shall take the following Oath or Affirmation:—'"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States, and will to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States (C. Of U. S., page 110). The Presidential office carries great power and prestige. In fact it is probably the most powerful political office in the world today. This is, of course, due in patt to the fact this nation is the most powerful on earth. Powers and Duties of the President (C. Of U. S., pp. 110-129; Y. R. C., pp. 126-139). 707 The President is Commander-inChief of the Army and Navy, and of the militia of the several states, when called into service of the United States. The President has power to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States, except in impeachment cases. The President has power to grant make treaties with foreign nations provided two-thirds of the Senators present concur. He appoints the ambassadors, ministers, and consuls of the United States, the judges of the Supreme Court, and all other officers of the United States. Congress, however, may, by law, vest the appointment of inferior officers, as it shall think proper, in_ the President, in the courts of law, or in the heads of departments. In case of vacancies during recess of the Senate, the President has power to fill such vacancies by commissions which expire at the end of the next session of the Senate. The President is given the duty from time to time of reporting to Congress on the State of the Union and to recommend laws and measures for its consideration; on extraordinary occasions he may call Congress into session and may adjourn both houses if they are unable to agree upon adjournment (Y. R. C., page 136; C. Of U. S., page 121). He receives ambassadors and ministers of foreign states, and has the duty to see that the laws of the United States are faithfully executed. In addition he appoints all officers of the United States. The concluding section of Article IT states the reasons for removal of oftice of the President, Vice President, and all civil officers of the 708 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 United States, "on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, 'Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors" (Y. R. C. Pp. 140- 141; C. Of U. S., page 129). The Judicial Department I (Y. R. C., pp. 144-155; C. Of U. S., pp. 131-153). In the minds of most students of government, the crowning achievement of the framers was the provision made in the Constitution for the Judicial Department of the Government. This is provided for by Article IIT. Judicial Review A feature of our Constitutional system, which is not known in any other governmental system, at least to the same degree, is that of judicial review. This means that the actions and functions of the Legislative and Executive Departments are subject to review in the courts. In no other single illustration was the genius of the founding fathers so clearly manifest as in the provision made for the courts to nullity the acts of the other two departments which are contrary to the fundamental law of the Constitution. In one stroke arbitrary and tyrannical government was literally made impossible in America. 'The rights of individual citizens to life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness were made secure and placed beyond the power of government. The Constitution does not, in words, provide for judicial review. This power was first asserted by the Supreme Court of the United States in the famous case of Marbury vs. Madison. Chief Justice Marshall, the great judge who laid the foundations of Constitutional law under the Constitution, enunciated the great principle that the Constitution is the supreme law of the land, and gave utterance to the doctrine that the Legislative and Executive Departments were bound by its provisions. Anything done or enacted contrary to the Constitution has been declared to be of no force or effect since that decision was rendered. By contrast, in England, the courts have no such power to control laws passed by Parliament or to prevent their enforcement. If Parliament should pass a law, no matter how unjust or unwise, the Crown may carry it out and the English courts are powerless to prevent its enforcement. The principle of judicial review is extended to the state legislatures and executives and all state constitutions are construed to give the courts of both the state and Federal Government this power of review. By Article III, section 1, the judicial power of the United States is vested in the Supreme Court and such inferior courts as Congress may establish. Judges are appointed to hold office during good behavior, and the compensation they receive may not be diminished during their continuance in office. The Judiciary was created as an independent and co-ordinate department of the Government. The idependence of the Judiciary insures that Congress and the Executive shall not exceed the powers conferred upon them by the Constitution. For example, in all cases, including those in which the Government is a party, the decision shall be according to law without interference from any department of LESSON DEPARTMENT the Government which might have an interest in the outcome. Under Article III, Congress has established a complete system of Federal courts having jurisdiction in all parts of the United States (Y. R. C., page 83). Article III, section 2, prescribes the jurisdiction of the Federal courts. The judicial power of these courts extends to all cases in law and equity arising under the Constitution; the laws of the United States and treaties made with foreign governments; to all cases aflecting ambassadors and ministers; cases of admirality and maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to which the United States shall be a party; controversies between two or more states; between a state and citizens of another state, and between citizens of different states. Originally the Constitution provided that the I ~ judicial power should extend to controversies between citizens of the I same state claiming lands under I grants of different states and be tween a state or the citizens thereof and foreign states, citizens or subjects (Y. R. C., page 147; C. Of U. S., Pp. 136-144). This latter clause was amended by the Eleventh Amendment on June 8, 1798, to provide expressly that the judicial power of the United States should not extend to any 709 ORGAN BOOKS for Ward Organists. At the Console—Felton 1.50 _ Chancel Echoes—Felton -.1.59. Devotional Organ Album— Auger oo 2L- 222-2 lL ---2.50. Organ Voluntaries—Vols.. Organ Melodies—Landon 7ea. 3.50 1.50 1 and 2—Schreiner _ Twenty-Five Pieces for Small Organ—Schreiner 2.50. The Organist—Orem 2.75. Sacred Hour at the Organ— AYO -oo -on---- nn2.00 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indicated above. [) On Approval [] Charge ~) Money Enclosed suit in law or equity COmmMeENCEM OF I I Name eccccsscsecssecescssnesecsessessenssneeetsnsseseue. Of 0 I prosecuted against one of the United Ce i rE! Peery I States by citizens of another state lS! Or by citizens or subjects of any I '----------------------------------+ foreign state. The reasons for this Amendment will be discussed in a later lesson in this series. Under the provisions of Article III, section 2, clause 2, in all cases which affect ambassadors, ministers, FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY aunes I 45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET oq e SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH 710 SSUVCUGNAEUAEUEOTDREAUAUSAOGCUGUSSEUANUOGETSUSCUCTEUESGALTECREETTEOLS ACCENTED UTC RT ERTS For complete details of our CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY TOUR Write or Phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 4-2017 —_ If you are interested ina 1955 EUROPE TOUR let us know early Write to: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah STTOUUUUEULUE CELLU UUGECUCeEC ECU COUOLCUCUGUCCOLLCUCLECOCOCUCLCUOCUCUCUCLGCUUCUCUCCUUUUUCLCCULUCUCLCULUUCLCUCUGCUCUCUCLULLCCOUUCOLLCULULCUOLULULLLLULUCULLUs 4 SEARS SALE! ROEBUCK AND CO Cotton Carpet At Lowest Sale Price Ever! Our regular 5.75 "plush 399 pile' carpeting in choice of brilliant Harmony House colors. Sq. Yd. We I 2-1. 5.4. AF Oo Oya beeem.. Gl 5 ———————— RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 or consuls, and those in which a state shall be a party, the Supreme Court of the United States has original jurisdiction. 'That is to say, such suits or actions may be commenced in the Supreme Court itself. In all other cases the Supreme Court of the United States has appelate — jurisdiction only. Appelate jurisdiction means the power to hear cases on appeal from lower or inferior Federal courts and from state courts where the same may have been commenced or appealed. Article III, section 2, clause 3 of the Constitution specifically provides that all trials involving criminal offenses shall be tried by jury and shall be held in the state where the offense was committed. When not committed within any state, trial shall be at such place as Congress may, by law, provide. Article III, section 3, clause 1 defines the crime of treason against the United States. It shall consist only in levying war against them, or in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid or comfort. No person shall be convicted of treason except on the testimony of two witness to the same overt act, or on confession in open court. 'This Constitutional requirement makes the conviction of treason a most difficult task for the Government to accomplish. Congress, in addition, has the power to prescribe the punishment for treason which, under present law, is punishable by "death, or imprisonment and fine, with the loss of right to hold office under the United States" (C. Of U. S., page 152). But conviction (attainder) of treason shall work no corruption of blood or forfeiture except during LESSON DEPARTMENT the life of the person attainted (convicted). (See Y. R. C., page 155; C. Of U. S., pp. 149-153.) "Corruption of Blood" means the destruction of the right to inherit property. Forfeiture is the forced relinquishing of estate or property to the government. Questions on the Lesson 1. In what office is the executive authority of the Government vested? 2. Is an Executive Department essential to the Government? Why? 3. How were the President and VicePresident originally chosen under the Constitution? What is the present method of selection?. Name some of the powers and func tions of the office of President of the United States. 5. How many Presidential Electors does each state have? 6. What are the necessary qualifications for the Presidency? 7. In whom is the judicial power of the United States vested and to what classes of cases does it extend? 8. What is the purpose of the Judicial Department and how does it affect the Executive and Legislative Departments? G. How are judges appointed under the Constitution? 10. Discuss briefly the doctrine of "Judicial Review" and how it operates to protect the liberties of all citizens. Cue Genevieve Groen Winter winds greet wigwams After Indian summer feet Have danced trees bare, And walked the leaves to sleep. 711 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built ——>- All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Love Grows Sonder Ethel Jacobson Love grows fonder Through the years; Laughter's sweeter After tears. Hands are dearer, Loved and known For caresses Often shown. Love, at first So fragile-sweet, Fills a life It made complete. And gossamer strands That caught my heart Are fused to steel By love-wise art. Page 712 "a: She Golden Cage Elizabeth Williamson DD something a little different—a little glamorous to your home decorations this year. Make a gilded cage. 1. Secure an old bird cage retrieved from an attic, a basement, or a secondhand store. 2. Paint the cage gold or silver. 3. Get two Christmas tree ornament birds from the store, and attach them in side the cage. 4. Place sprigs of evergreens and somc red berries on the bottom of the cage. 5. Tie a big red or green bow on the top of the cage. Night of Mla gic Eunice J. Miles Grinning goblins, sheeted ghosts, Merge and fade in eerie light, Jack-o-lanterns blink a path For gypsies trailing in the night. Lanky figures short and tall As they challenge: 'Trick or treat"! In a chilling undertone. How could anyone believe Such gay spirits, magic-led, At the witching hour of ten Would be fast asleep in bed. Wo rh in Print Fanny G. Brunt lor years she tried to create poems With rhymn and meter right, But critics frowned upon them, Called her words and phrases "trite." But still she kept persisting, Till her hair was getting gray, To see her work appear in print That urge she could not stay. After years of trying to write A poem or a sonnet, She made a pretty apron With lace and ruffles on it; Her work improved with practice, And from prints of rare design, Each apron was a classic Like a pretty valentine.

By needle thread and thimble, An art, and skill, and dint, Even in far off places now— Her work appears in print. The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 (Cloth Binding) $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 2.0 tect ee eee 35 150 to 300 miles a ce.39 300 to 600 miles 22 ccceecccee econ eee.45 600 to 1000 miles 2000. Eee 24 1000 to 1400 miles.. 4 we wees 064 1400 to 1800 miles 2000.00.00 76 Over 1800 miles — 000..87 Leave them at our commeniansliy located aan office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 4-258] fe %@) Latest and Best in LD M as: ae 1, ISRAEL! DO YOU KNOW? LeGrand Richards "Tsrael! Do you know why the Lord has made such great promises unto the House of Israel?" This masterful book, just off the press, written with vitality and easy readability, answers the great promise made to the Jews. It tells how the prophecy of the reuniting of the House of Israel and the House of Judah will be accomplished how even now it is being fulfilled. 2. COLONIA JUAREZ $2.00 Nelle S. Hatch Here is one of the I iI Ind most colorful ond 3 MATTHEW COWLEY SPEAKS 'od -: will l me at rc I ~; The marvellous serColonia; written I 4 lon excellent stor ler /, - Juarez A ity T sparkling cnn al r rela NI Te aurmen { 7 f perspective the lif i death, and eventual for fi ' i i rebirth of one of the at; 4 I the gospe nTm Pe ie world S most intriguderful fami! Ak MH: eee? Ing places. On lent Juarez. Gift, too, for some- $3.50 ome you love Th $4.00 one ] WoGort AOE f Se I DESERET BOOK COMPANY I g 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah entlemen: I Enclosed you will find check 00 money order charge to my I I account the following GD oe theweeeee for the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 Name (cp gdate.. Seebe.., salbece-2. C2..2--concecsecraucssoocs=cOQQOB6bOCE cues 2-2:0zccs9Henece/ 8006 coc ccco eM DS EGBBG ¢ > >< cee arcs I /\GIGGE ES ee eoseoecs GeBsbEERbooo 522671500084 lsBds555]3 4022 E=AEEAEBEEEREBERER ESE 5o scene EIEES NEN NR 090505 _299000s0000000 2600035000000 City OS State 2. Ee ee Resivents of Utah include 2% sales tax. Summer fades fast in the high mountain valleys, and nature, in a wild burst of energy, seems determined to display her most beautiful charms before winter's icy grip strips her foliage. The aspen leaves reflect the sun like polished gold coins. The blazing red maples, the bronze oak leaves, and the deep-green evergreens blend into color harmonies that defy the artist's brush. The autumn years in a man's life can also be the most beautiful of all. With maturing ability to distinguish ideas and things of real worth, with more time to meditate and to enjoy, and provided with reasonable assurance against financial worries, no one need fear the advancing years, but rather welcome them. Planned Beneficial Life programs have enabled thousands to enjoy to their fullest these golden years... But you should start such a retirement program as early as possible. Ask your Beneficial Life insurance counselor about the many popular planned retirement plans., Call him now, while you have it fresh in mind. BENEFICIAL LIFE Insurance Dovid O. McKay, Pres.