[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Special Feature | Title: The | Author: Williamson]
[The Golden Cage Elizabeth Williamson]

June, my cousin, who is just about my age, was there, too, and she was all excited because she had a date that afternoon and I was to go along with her date's friend, Jack. I had met him and he seemed nice, but nothing to get excited about. When June and I had finished the dishes and she was flushed from hurrying and excitement, she said, Page 682 "T can hardly wait. A convertible." "And not too many days around here are," I replied, adding, "but I wish Grandpa was better. I haven't even been down to see him yet." Just then mother came in, "And he's been asking for you. I thought you might drop in today for a little while—both of you." "But, Aunt Kate," June protested, "we've got a date; we can see him next week." "He's quite sick..."" Mother said, her words hanging in the air like the limp dish towel hanging upon the rack. 'Then she added, "Well, we'll get ready. If you can stop in, do." "We will," I said. But the convertible was there before we knew it, and we got in, waving goodbye to the folks, who all looked pretty solemn. Like thousands of others, we headed our car for one of the canyons where leaves were green and the air cool across the mountains rising above our heads. Jack was a lot more fun than I remembered him. And a lot better looking, especially when he smiled, which he did most of the time, except once when he said to me, "You seem to have something on your mind?" "Well..." I hesitated, "my grandfather is quite sick—in the hospital. Mother wanted me to go see him." "Maybe you'd rather do that," he said. It's the day for THE YOUNG AND THE OLD I couldn't be sure how he meant it, but I assured him that, of course, I wouldn't. TILL, after awhile, the subject came up again. It was almost as though he were teasing me to see if I'd rather stay with him or go back to town. His eyes looked at me rather strangely, and somehow I knew that I could like him very, very much. We stopped in a small restaurant on the way to the canyon to have a sandwich and a malt. While we were eating, Jack put nickels in the juke box and played the latest hit tunes. "How about dancing with me?" Jack questioned. "Sounds like fun,'"" was my reply. While dancing with him, I realized that not only could I like him very much, but I already did. And, somehow, I got the feeling that he liked me a little bit, too. Maybe it was the way he was holding me while dancing, or maybe it was my imagination. When we reached a park we walked around for awhile. Then we spied some empty swings and, I guess still being little girls and boys at heart, we decided to swing for awhile.... I was going up in the air with the wind taking my breath, when [I saw an old man walking near the stream. His shoulders were a little stooped, like Grandpa's, and he held his hands in his pockets just the same way, with only the thumbs showing. My breath caught in my throat again—only this time with a difference. I thought of his waiting for us to come—hoping. I slowed the swing down, dragging my foot, not 683 even caring if I scuffed my new sandals. "Tve got to go back," I said in one short breath. "Why?" June asked. "I want to see Grandpa—today." "So do I—but not this minute." I knew she hadn't been as close to him as I had. We'd lived with him when I was born and for several years after. Jack said, "If she wants to go, let's take her. It won't be any fun for her here, even if she stays." Nor for him, I thought. Still, it didn't matter at the moment that I had to spoil something that might have been so nice. HE helped me into the car, and we were soon hurrying back to town, down the hill to the big hospital, which made my heart beat faster just to look at it. We found the floor, the room. Mother saw us and came out so that we could go in. Grandpa was lying with his eyes closed; and, oh, he looked so old and so tired, the veins showing in his face and in his hands folded across the white sheet. I stared at him, almost in unbelief. He seemed to know we were staring at him, for after a moment he opened his eyes. When he saw me, he smiled and lifted his hand. I took it and held it in mine. June came over and asked, "How are you, Grandpa?" He smiled at her, too, then closed his eyes without speaking. In just that moment that I stood there, so many memories went through my mind of all the happy times we had had together—how he had peeled an apple and shared it 684 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 with me every winter night; how he had held me on his lap and had given me my first love and knowledge of books; how he had found me, that day when I was lost, and carried me home against his shoulder that had been so big and strong then. I bent and kissed his forehead. Then a nurse came and told us there were too many in the room. June and I went out. The boys were waiting for us downstairs. Jack came over to me. "Tm proud of you for coming. I was afraid you wouldn't." "You were really?" I asked in unbelief. So he was testing me, and I thought that he didn't want me to come! He nodded, and we were about to go over to the car when we saw Mother and June's mother coming out of the hospital. There were tears coming down their cheeks, and without having to be told, both June and I realized we had come to see Grandpa not any too soon. I went over to Mother and put my arm around her and tried to imagine what it would be like to lose her or Daddy—tried to imagine life without Grandpa and his peppermints and his kindness—his wonderful kindness. Mother and my aunt went back upstairs. June was crying, but it seemed that no tears would come to me—just an empty all-gone feeling in the pit of my stomach which made my knees feel very weak. I felt Jack near me. "I'm sorry," he whispered. In spite of the pain in me, I felt happy at seeing him look at me like that, having him so near. For the first time, I suppose, I understood a little of what life is. The old, the tired, the dying, and the young going on—loving, living, making the pattern all over again. Last Call to Vacation Maryhale Woolsey Having stayed close to duty all year long— Closing my ears to spring's enticing call, To summer's gentle whispers, to the song Of woodland birds and mountain waterfall. Now I respond to lures that tax believing— This earth all raimented in cloth of gold, With jewels threaded in, which time was weaving While I was blind to how the year grew old. I would be truant now, I would discover Where blue-domed noons permit a tardy sunning And gleaning of the bright playtime too near over, — Before I knew how fast the days were running. _FROM THE FIELD I Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for ""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ida H. West TIMPANOGOS STAKE (UTAH), GROVE WARD VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT SOCIAL, May 1954 Front row, seated, left to right: Emily Evans, who has served as a visiting teacher for forty years, and has also been a counselor and a secretary-treasurer in Relief Society, and a member of the quilting committee for many years; Alvira Olpin (mother of President A. Ray Olpin of the University of Utah) eighty years old, who has served twenty years as a visiting teacher and seventeen years as theology class leader; Minnie Oscarson, eighty years old, who has served as a visiting teacher for forty-five years and has also held many other positions in Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Sarah Anderson, a visiting teacher for twentynine years; Emily Ray, a visiting teacher for twenty-five years, who has helped on most of the quilts completed in Relief Society during that time; Susie Church, a visiting teacher for twenty years, and a member of the quilting committee for many years; Caroline Adams, a visiting teacher for thirty years, and a quilter for many years. Florence O. Gillman is president of Timpanogos Stake Relief Society. Page 685 686 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 Photograph submitted by Sylvia Johnson NEVADA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION Left to right: Mae Probert; Mona Ellis; Susan Mulliner; Julia Smith; Luella Whip. Ple; Sabra Peacock; Louisa Johnson. These sisters were especially honored for having served many years as visiting teachers. Five wards are represented. Each sister was presented with a lovely corsage, and each spoke a few minutes on the program, relating her experiences and her blessings as a visiting teacher. These teachers represent one hundred forty years of service. Sylvia Johnson is president of Nevada Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Justine J. Lytle UVADA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS CALIENTE WARD (NEVADA) VISITING TEACHERS AT CONVENTION AND ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL March 18, 1954 Left to right: Bell Price, visiting teacher of Panaca Ward; Hertha Kroencke, visiting teacher of Pioche Ward; Marian Fernley, President, Caliente Ward Relief Society; Vera Calvert, First Counselor; Myrtle Peterson; Hulda Webster; Nora Wadsworth. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 687 Justine Lytle, Secretary-Treasurer of Uvada Stake Relief Society, reports: "The picture was taken at our visiting teachers convention, held in connection with our birthday social.... There were corsages for all the visiting teachers, and gifts were presented to the honored sisters. Sister Phylis Lee of Panaca Ward made the beautiful birthday cake.... Sister Kroencke has served for forty-seven years as a visiting teacher, and Sister Bell Price has served for forty-five years. Illness prevented Sister Lillian Fackrell of Enterprise Ward from attending the social. Her recent death is a great loss to all who knew her. She served for forty-five years as a visiting teacher. The Caliente Ward visiting teachers were especially honored for having a one-hundred per cent attendance at visiting teachers meetings for the year 1952-53." Martha H. Bleak is president of Uvada Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Zina P. Dunford EAST PROVO STAKE (UTAH), NORTH CAMPUS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS DINNER DANCE, March 12, 1954 Front row, left to nght: Cherrill Curtis; Collette Green; Lois Lockhead, SecretaryTreasurer; Deslyn Edling; Helen Erickson. Back row, left to mght: Claudia Sedgwick; Karen Sedgwick, Second Counselor; Dixie Robison, First Counselor; Anne Boucher, President. Zina P. Dunford, President, East Provo Stake Relief Society, reports that this branch is composed entirely of college girls. The dance was semi-formal, and 208 couples were served a delicious ham dinner. The decorations were based upon an oriental theme, with cherry blossoms as a motif. 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, KENTUCKY WEST DISTRICT, MADISONVILLE RELIEF SOCIETY Left to right: Minnie Gunn; Betty Emery; Lettie Brashears; Emma Crouse; Magdalene Wiles; Nora B. Ray; Dorothy Wiles; May Rickard, President; Edna Bell Cummings; Annie Wiles; Bonnie Wiles; Lillie Pearl Young; Cleda Ray, First Counselor; Corene Rickard, Second Counselor; 'Tillie Daniels. Adriana Zappey, President, East Central States Mission Relief Society, reports that this Relief Society was organized November 20, 1952. "Since that time they have made forty-seven quilts.... Elder and Sister Guy Chamberlain, missionaries, have done much to make this branch and Relief Society a success."' Photograph submitted by Mona H. Kirkham COLUMBIA RIVER STAKE (OREGON) WORK MEETING May 19, 1954 Seated, in front: Della Davis (left) stake Magazine representative. Standing, left, at back: Marion Wood, Work Director Counselor; Mona H. Kirkham, President; Leah Weber, Education Counselor.