[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Relief Society Responsibilities | Author: Joseph Fielding Smith]
Relief  Society  Responsibilities 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
ON  the  seventeenth  day  of 
March,  1842,  the  "Female  Re- 
lief Society  of  Nauvoo/'  was 
organized  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  assisted  by  Elder  John  Tay- 
lor. The  Lord  had  revealed  that  the 
women  of  the  Church  should  be 
organized  into  a  society,  for  there 
was  important  work  for  them  to  do 
in  aiding  to  "bring  forth  and  estab- 
lish the  cause  of  Zion."  This  labor 
of  the  sisters  was  primarily  to  be  for 
the  benefit,  encouragement,  and  ad- 
vancement of  the  women  of  the 
Church  that  they  might  be  prepared 
in  all  things  for  a  place  in  the  ce- 
lestial kingdom.  The  responsibility 
was  also  given  them  to  aid  in  the 
work  of  mercy  and  relief  from  dis- 
tress and  suffering  of  the  poo^,  the 
sick,  and  afflicted  throughout  the 
Church.  All  through  the  years  since 
that  organization,  the  sisters  of  this 
society  have  been  true  to  their  call- 
ing and  have  magnified  themselves 
in  their  faithfulness  in  that  work. 
No  task  assigned  has  been  too  hard; 
no  responsibility  neglected,  and 
through  their  ministrations  thou- 
sands have  been  blessed. 
Among  these  responsibilities  was 
the  duty  of  preparing  the  women 
through  study  and  faith  to  obtain  an 
understanding  of  the  fundamental 
principles  of  the  gospel;  for  the 
Lord  requires  of  the  women,  as  well 
as  of  the  men  in  the  Church,  that 
they  know  his  divine  will  and  ha\'e 
an  abiding  testimony  in  their  hearts 
of  the  revealed  truth  pertaining  to 
Page  644 
salvation  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 
The  Lord  did  not  reveal  The  Book 
of  Mormon  for  the  benefit  of  those 
who  hold  the  Priesthood  only,  but 
for  every  soul  who  seeks  the  truth, 
male  and  female  alike;  and  every 
member  of  the  Church  should  be  fa- 
miliar with  its  contents.  When  he 
said,  in  speaking  of  the  command- 
ments in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, "Search  these  command- 
ments, for  they  are  true  and  faith- 
ful, and  the  prophecies  and  prom- 
ises which  are  in  them  shall  all  be 
fulfilled,"  it  was  not  a  command 
which  concerned  the  male  members 
of  the  Church  alone,  but  it  was  in- 
tended for  all.  Therefore,  the  sis- 
ters who  are  placed  in  charge  of 
the  Relief  Society,  and  likewise  the 
Mutual  Improvement  and  Primary 
organizations  are  under  the  neces- 
sity of  giving  instruction  to  all  the 
women  and  children  who  come  un- 
der their  direction. 
Every  woman  baptized  into  the 
Church  has  the  hands  of  the  elders 
laid  on  her  head  for  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  that  she  may  have  the 
guidance  of  that  Spirit  in  all  truth. 
It  is  the  will  of  the  Lord  that  none 
may  be  without  divine  guidance 
which  will  reveal  to  them  the  truth 
and  enable  them  to  discern  the  light 
from  the  darkness  and,  thus,  be 
fortified  and  given  power  to  resist 
all  false  doctrines,  theories,  and  no- 
tions, which  are  so  prevalent  in  the 
world  today.  When  the  Lord  said 
to     the     Church     by     revelation.
