[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Artist | Author: Crowley]
[Artist at Seventy-Five (Mae Olmstead Crowley)]
A  PAIR  OF  PANTS  FOR  BENJY 
679 
auditorium  stage  in  single  file  to  re- 
ceive   their    diplomas,    I    watched 
anxiously  for  Benjy.  Then  I 
him  standing  at  the  side  of 
stage,  waiting  until  the  girl 
ahead  of  him  had  taken  the 
scribed  four  steps  before  he  should 
start.  He  straightened  his  collar, 
hitched  up  his  pants  at  the  belt,  and 
he  stepped  out  proudly. 
saw 
the 
just 
pre- 
It  was  then  I  made  up  my  mind 
to  stay  with  schoolteaching.  Never 
again  would  I  say  that  schoolteach- 
ers work  without  adequate  compen- 
sation when  they  do  extra  things  to 
help  their  students,  for  when  I  saw 
Benjy  Martin  step  across  that  stage 
with  his  head  high  and  his  white 
shirt  gleaming,  I  was  paid,  you  bet 
I  was  paid! 
Kyirtist  at  Seventy-C/i 
Mae  Olmstead  Crowley,  Ontario,  California,  Finds  Artistic  Expression  in  Oil 
Painting,  China  Painting,  Ceramics,  and  Needlework 
MRS.  Crowley,  wife  of  a  lawyer  and  mother  of  nine  children,  grandmother  of  thirty- 
six,  and  great-grandmother  of  sixteen,  painted  a  picture  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple 
on  her  fiftieth  wedding  anniversary  three  years  ago.  She  has  painted  many  other  sub- 
jects, including  mountain  vistas  in  summer  and  some  striking  winter  landscapes. 
In  addition  to  her  principal  hobby  of  oil  painting,  Mrs.  Crowley  has  painted  five 
hundred  pieces  of  china,  has  completed  367  pieces  of  porcelain  and  ceramics,  and  has 
knitted,  crocheted,  and  embroidered  hundreds  of  articles.  She  has  also  made  many 
wedding  dresses  and  other  articles  requiring  the  deft  touch  of  an  expert  seamstress.  Mrs. 
Crowley  also  has  musical  talent  and  raises  flowers. 
Active  in  Relief  Society  and  other  Church  activities,  Mrs.  Crowley  is  a  member  of 
the  Ontario  Ward  in  Mt.  Rubidoux  Stake.