[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Special Feature | Title: The | Author: Spafford]
The International Council of Women Conference at Helsinki, Finland, June 1954 President Belle S. Spafford T is with pleasure that I bring to Relief Society members a report of the recent International Council of Women Conference with a brief mention of my other very delightful experiences in Europe. Finland, far to the north, with its limitless forests, blue inland lakes, long, bright summer nights, and modest, hospitable people, is an interesting land. Helsinki, Finland's beautiful capital city, with a population of 400,000 people, has preserved much of its old character, yet amazes one with much that is new and modern. Its fruit, fish, flower, and vegetable markets, swarming with people, capture the interest of the visitor who may also shop in its modern department stores, visit its new and up-to-date educational and social institutions, and be housed in as modern and beautiful a hotel as is to be found in any country. This unique and attractive city was the setting for the International Council of Women Conference, June 7-18, 1954, which brought together approximately five hundred women representing thirty-four free nations. The International Council of Women is made up of National Councils of Women of many lands, and brings together, triennially, Page 648 women of all races, many nations, creeds, and classes, in the belief that the good of humanity and the wellbeing of the home and the family will be advanced by a greater unity of thought, purpose, and action on the part of organized women. The Council aims to present factual data in its efforts to focus the attention of organized women on matters related to family and community life, and to encourage efforts to correct unfavorable conditions, as well as to chart courses that will promote the well-being of the home and society. Resolutions designed to aid in the accomplishment of the aims of the Council are drawn up and voted upon at the triennial meetings. However, no member National Council can be committed, in any case, to any cause or project by International Council action, except by its own vote. Each participating National Council is allowed a number of voting delegates according to the size of its membership. The National Council of Women of the United States, the oldest member of the International Council, was allowed ten voting delegates and six alternates at the Helsinki conference. Recognition was accorded Relief Society by the National Council of THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN CONFERENCE 649 CHAIRMEN OF THE RESPECTIVE DE THEIR COUNTRIES' FLAGS AT THE OFFICIAL OPENING OF THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN CONFERENCE LEGATIONS SEATED IN FRONT OF Note Chairman Belle S. Spafford seated in front of the flag of the United States. Women of the United States in my appointment as chairman of the United States delegation in the absence of Mrs. Charlotte Leyden, the United States National Council President, who was unable to attend the conference. The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association was also honored in the appointment of Mrs. Marba Josephson as an alternate delegate. Both the Relief Society and the Y. W. M. LA. Are charter members of the National Council of Women of the United States. The meetings of the Helsinki conference were held in the new and modern buildings of the University of Helsinki and the University of Commerce. As one approached the University of Commerce, there came into view a colorful row of huge flags waving in the breeze and representing the many member nations and proclaiming the international character of the gathering. The official languages of the conference were English and French and excellent translators were provided for both languages. 650 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 HE official opening of the conference, on Wednesday, June 9, was a brilliant and impressive affair. In addition to the conference participants, many public officials and other prominent persons were in attendance, including Madame Alli Paasikivi, wife of the President of Finland, and patron of the conference. 'The speakers at the opening session included Minister Virolainen, who presented the Finnish government's greetings; Alderman Lauri Aho, chairman of the city. Council, who bade the conference visitors welcome on behalf of the city of Helsinki; Mrs. Margit Borg-Sundman, President of the National Council of Finland, the hostess council, whose masterful management of affairs was evidence of her great leadership; and Dr. Jeanne Eder of Switzerland, President of the International Council of Wom- @in. A very effective part of this meeting was the formal introduction of the chairmen of the respective delegations. Finnish girls dressed in national costumes carried the flags of the different nations to the dais of the festival hall where they stood in front of a row of white pillars. It was a stirring experience for me to lead the chairmen of all the nations and to stand in front of Old Glory as the United States. Was introduced.