[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Pickering]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering]
FROM    THE    FIELD 
Margaret  C.  Pickering,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal 
of  material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  April  1950,  page  278,  and 
the  Handbook  of  Instructions,  page  123. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Ida  H.  West 
TIMPANOGOS  STAKE  (UTAH),  GROVE  WARD  VISITING  TEACHERS 
HONORED  AT  SOCIAL,  May  1954 
Front  row,  seated,  left  to  right:  Emily  Evans,  who  has  served  as  a  visiting  teacher 
for  forty  years,  and  has  also  been  a  counselor  and  a  secretary-treasurer  in  Relief  Society, 
and  a  member  of  the  quilting  committee  for  many  years;  Alvira  Olpin  (mother  of  Presi- 
dent A.  Ray  Olpin  of  the  University  of  Utah)  eighty  years  old,  who  has  served  twenty 
years  as  a  visiting  teacher  and  seventeen  years  as  theology  class  leader;  Minnie  Oscarson, 
eighty  years  old,  who  has  served  as  a  visiting  teacher  for  forty-five  years  and  has  also 
held  many  other  positions  in  Relief  Society. 
Back  row,  standing,  left  to  right:  Sarah  Anderson,  a  visiting  teacher  for  twenty- 
nine  years;  Emily  Ray,  a  visiting  teacher  for  t\^■enty-fi^'e  years,  who  has  helped  on  most 
of  the  quilts  completed  in  Relief  Society  during  that  time;  Susie  Church,  a  visiting 
teacher  for  twenty  years,  and  a  member  of  the  quilting  committee  for  many  years; 
Caroline  Adams,  a  \isiting  teacher  for  thirty  years,  and  a  quilter  for  many  years. 
Florence  O.  Gillman  is  president  of  Timpanogos  Stake  Relief  Society. 
Page  683