From Zion to Jerusalem." Granddaughter of Orson Hyde. "Out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." Isaiah 2:3. As the people of Zion we are looking and following with great interest the activities of the Zionists organization of America and Europe in the old and beloved Jerusalem. The work of this body, combined with the English governmental policies, is going to prepare the Holy Land for the return of that once flourishing race of God's chosen people, the Jews; that chosen people developed a civilization of patriarchal unity for four thousand years, but saw it decay, after the Crucifixion. Just how is Jerusalem to attain a place amongst modern civilizations which shall produce the highest, finest and best results? It will come first through internal economic, political, and social development. Water Rights—The American Zionists, at the present, are greatly concerned over the reported boundary settlement which might deprive Palestine of access to the waters of the Jordan, Yarmuk and Litany, and the water sheds of Mt. Hermon. Such a settlement, if it left Palestine out, would cripple the great project at the start. Dr. Wise, one of the prominent leaders of the American Zionist, says: "The whole economic future of Palestine depends upon access to the waters mentioned. They are for Palestine the living waters, and are not necessary to the Syrian country to the north, because that country is well watered and has better streams to utilize in Lebanon ranges, America is expected to contribute a part of the means for Palestine's development, and we count upon Great Britain and France to meet the reasonable expectations and vital needs of a normal wholesome reclamation of Palestine." This statement of Dr. Wise shows the absolute necessity of first giving Jerusalem water privileges which will form the basis of her future development and to this effect the English government is pushing its plans in Jerusalem. Mr. Tokowsky, chairman of the Jaffa harbor committee, declares that the negotiations with a well-known European company of harbor-builders, for the construction of the Jaffa harbor, were progressing satisfactorily that the company had sent its experts to examine the sites and modified the plans to suit the requirements of the public. According to the plan the harbor will be fair-sized with room enough for ten five-thousand ton vessels, and will be thirty feet deep. The harbor will be built by expert European workman, but an opportunity will be afforded for local Jewish and Arabian laborers to learn this trade, especially during a two-months' vacation, when European laborers will go to their homes. The actual construction will take three years. The plans have been drawn to allow of the extension and enlarging of the harbor when necessary without detriment to that which had been already constructed. Modern machinery and improvements will be introduced from the start. The government has also agreed to run a railroad from the port inland which will make the port of easy access. The railroad, already running from Jaffa to Ludd, has been widened. By this railroad Jaffa is now connected directly with Jerusalem and Haifa. Besides the general advantages, the new port and its connecting railroad will have an economic field, and it will also open up vast possibilities for the Jewish Exploration Society. We shall follow with close interest the excavations which will be made in the process of the harbor construction, Many relics must, in Mr. Tokowsky's opinion, be at the bottom of the sea, and are bound to come to light when digging is begun. In addition to the new proposed Jaffa harbor, construction on the Haifa harbor will be taken care of immediately. It is silting, and owing to the expense of dredging, an extension of the present jetty is being carried through temporarily to remedy matters pending the adoption of some scheme of proper harbor facilities.

Immigration of Jews to Palestine—The statistical record of the immigration department of the Zionist commission shows that economic improvement is being pushed by necessity and that development will result, even if not planned for. In the last ten months, six thousand five hundred Jews have gone to Palestine, of whom one thousand five hundred came by way of Constantinople, two hundred from Cyprus, six hundred from Corsica, three thousand seven hundred by way of Trieste, six hundred by way of Kantara. Of this number two thousand five hundred were 'Haluzim,' of whom one thousand were employed in road construction. Three hundred skilled laborers have found employment in government departments. In all, fully eighty-five percent of the new-comers has found employment in the country, Natural immigration (immigrants who have come to join families who had preceded them) has commenced, and is a very hopeful sign of the assurance of permanency of residents. Housing Problems—With the great influx of immigrants Haifa has been overrun, consequently the housing problem is a serious one. However, the Jewish people are reported as being liberal and hospitable in taking into their homes the immigrants. Six large houses have recently been built adjoining the Technical College to help relieve the situation, likewise are the Arabs occupied in house construction. Now that the railroad to Haifa is in running order some enterprising citizens are making their homes in Acre and go to their business in Haifa. Quarantine Camp—In connection with housing improvements for the immigrants, a quarantine camp has been established in Haifa by the Public Health Department, which is so equipped that travelers will have accommodations during quarantine periods without paying the usual extortionate hotel rates. Telephones in Jerusalem—The installation of the telephone system, mainly for the business concerns, is making progress an assured possibility. With a well organized, efficient committee to look after each of these phases, in cooperation with the English government, the results should be none but the very best; especially since the assembly recognizes so clearly the importance of a well-founded. Stabilized, productive unit, which can be formed only by judicial distribution of the skilled and unskilled workmen into those colonies which are in need of them. With an efficiency of organization and the firm determination that the Jews all over the world are exhibiting toward the development of their coveted plan of once more gaining a national home—there is no doubt that the prophecies of the old world, as well as those of our own dispensation, will find in this rebuilding ancient Jerusalem a living example of the truthfulness and power of God's ancient plans for his choicest people.