Guide Lessons for April

Theology and Testimony

All group life must be organized civilly and socially, or chaos would result. One man and one woman may live together, with their family, if it is small, and live without strife, perhaps, for a period, in a desert or on an island. As soon, however, as the family increases, marries and sets up other family groups, there must be rules and regulations, in order to curb the strong and to protect the weak. Two men may want the same thing, and each may have a more or less just claim. Who shall decide between them? Shall they fight it out or refer the case to some trusted third person? No two human beings see things exactly the same. All life is a series of compromises.

The need for organization in civil and social life is duplicated by the need for organization in religious or spiritual life. The laws that underlie human life and its individual complexities are similar to those which underlie life on the other side. If, as we believe, there will be no strife nor confusion in the higher spheres Over There, it is because those who enter the higher spheres over there have learned about the laws which banish strife and confusion and have had strength to live by them. May it not be almost as injurious to society for a weak person to give in and be imposed upon all the time as it is for the strong person to be cruel and selfish in his or her conduct?

There are many laws which pertain to the kingdom of heaven. And there is no line to mark the division between the temporal and the spiritual. Right is right, truth is truth, law is law, here and hereafter. If there is law, there must be those who understand and administer the law. The individual must be protected from the group, while the group must be protected from the individual. Organization is therefore a vital need of religion.

In the dawn of man's history, the father ruled over his family in the patriarchal order and united both civil and religious office in himself. The eldest son carried down the authority and organization. When groups congregated and built cities, more elab-

orate organizations were needed. The ancient world, both Hebrew and Pagan, had complex systems of civil and religious organizations. In the Pagan nations the priestly and civil offices were usually separated. When Moses made his people ready for group life, before they reached Judea, he united the civil and religious offices, in a way, as did Joshua and the Judges. But when Saul became king, and the two offices were divided, they remained so, as long as the Hebrew nation survived. Modern European nations are a compromise. The czar, the kaiser and the English king were, and the king is still, ex-officio heads of the ruling state religion.

According to the Encyclopedia Britannica, in the article upon church history, from which we have quoted, we learn that at an early date there were regular officers in this or that local Christian church whether that church was in Asia Minor, Rome, Jerusalem or Egypt. (The Jewish church was disorganized after the crucifixion of the Savior, and has never been organized since with a central authority or corporate government. Each synagogue controls its own affairs and is independent in its activities.)

The Catholic church makes no claim for organization of the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood. The Pope is the ruling "bishop," who claims his office in descent from the original "bishop" of Rome. Under him are cardinal bishops and bishops in ordinary. The cardinals are the princes and senators of the church, being as well the counselors or the vicars (which means a substitute) in the office of the functions of the pontificate. There are three major orders of the priesthood in the Catholic church and four minor orders. The major orders are bishops, priests, deacons and sub-deacons. The four minor orders are acolytes (an attendant upon a clergyman), exorcists (one who purifies from evil spirits by adjurations and ceremonies), readers, (lecturers in a college or university), and doorkeepers (a porter)." (See Encyclopedia.)

The countries are divided into various circuits, each one called a diocese, and each diocese is placed under the charge of a bishop, or his subordinate, an archbishop. Priests or representatives of the bishop of the diocese have charge over the unit congregation of the church called parishes in all towns or cities according to the size of the unit.

Early in the second century the three permanent officers of the church were the bishop, presbyter (or priest) and the deacon. Their offices were needed to administer charity, direct public services, and to discipline offenders. The bishops themselves were "substitutes" for the apostles and prophets, some of whom it is said still lived in the early second century. About the end of the second century, because of an uproar raised by a

116 .

sect known as the Gnostics, who claimed they had superior knowledge, an assembly of the various bishops was held; and this assembly made up the canon of scripture and issued what is known as the "Apostles' Creed," which is still the basis of orthodox church creeds. Next came the claim of "Apostolic Succession," toward the beginning of the third century. At first each congregation was an individual unit, and the bishop who presided over it, rendered no special obedience to any particular council or synod or higher authority. Finally, in the middle of the third century, it was found necessary to establish "Diocesan Episcopacy," which means a collective body of bishops, who were to consult and decide upon church matters, In the fourth century authority began centralizing in cities, The elders or presbyters were not independent officers, but were representatives of the bishops. The bishop alone had the right to direct and control, until after the synod (a conference or assembly) was established, when the Synod government became the rule. A great general synod or conference was held at Nice, 325 A. D. Even then, however, the authority had not centralized in Rome. Constantinople and Rome divided up the chief honor and authority, In the fifth century the Roman Episcopate, or directing authority, developed into the Papacy under the Emperor Augustine. Then came Constantine with his grafting of heathen customs onto the Christian church, which led to the great apostasy from the pure gospel of Christ and his apostles. The Protestant churches, led by the various reformers, Luther, Calvin, Wesley, Wycliff, etc., in the seventeenth century protested against, first, the infallibility of the Pope who claimed and still claims the right to pass final judgment on all religious conditions. Among these were the selling of indulgences, the worship of the virgin Mary, the doctrine of "transubstantiation," which

The organization of the various Protestant Christian sects differs greatly. They are divided into three forms of religious group life. First: Episcopacy (diocesan) represents the

principle of official rule, in a monarchial form. The Catholics, Church of England and other Episcopalian churches form this group. Presbyterianism stands for the rule of an official aristocracy exercising collective control through an ascending series of ecclesiastical courts. All the various sects of Presbyterians, Baptists, Methodists, and their offshoots, belong to this second group. Congregationalism represents the principle of democracy in religion. Each local congregation of believers is a miniature church. The first and second group confine all priestly functions and ordinances to the governing officers. The third group asserts a common so-called priestly function for every male member. The Pilgrims and Puritans were all Congregationalists, and Harvard, and Yale Colleges were founded as Congregational schools. The Unitarians are an outgrowth of the Congregationalists. The old English Episcopal church follows closely the Catholic form of organization, having its government vested in bishops, archbishops and pastors, while the English king is the nominal head of the church. Consider the simple organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. There was an almost immediate growth of organization each step revealed to the Prophet, while both the Catholic and Protestant churches took centuries to formulate their plans. Within five years came the revelations which are found in the Doctrine and Covenants in Sections 20, 84, and especially 107. The Priesthood is the power of God to officiate in the ordinances, while the various offices grow out of the Melchizedek and Aaronic Priesthood, naturally and logically. (See Section 107.) Nothing can exceed the close-knit organization of this Church, except that more perfected form which doubtless will be found on the other side in the celestial kingdom. Students of sociology and history all unite in admiration and respect for our perfect Church organization which no man could devise, but which was revealed direct from heaven. This Church is organized on the perfect balance of the three essentials: First: divine authority; second: group control; third: personal or individual consent. God himself revealed the pattern and chose the first officers or representatives himself. The unit of the organization is the family, presided over by a man generally holding the Priesthood. Not a Priesthood held by a few men only, chosen by themselves, or by a governing body of men, but a Priesthood held by practically every man who reaches the age of discretion. The mother directs the children and the father counsels and directs his family. He in turn is usually connected with a quo-

118 .

rum of the Priesthood. Each grade of the Priesthood is a separate entity but is presided over by a presidency, and each grade from the deacon to the apostleship is in turn subject to the counsel, advice and leadership of the one next higher in authority. This plan somewhat resembles the organization of that great apostate body, the Catholic church. When, however, the Catholics reached the Pope, in their upward climb for authority, they had to make him infallible or perfect in his sphere of governing activity. Note the beauty and simplicity of the gospel plan; the Lord tells the prophet, in the Section (107) we have just quoted, how it is that each step leads up and up from the deacon till we come to the "President of the High Priesthood." Thus making of Church an eternal round with Christ the great High Priest as the eternal head. The following is from Doctrine and Covenants Section 107:82, 83, 84. "And inasmuch as a President of the High Priesthood shall transgress, he shall be had in remembrance before the common council of the Church, who shall be assisted by twelve counselors of the High Priesthood; "And their decision upon his head shall be an end of controversy concerning him." "Thus, none shall be exempted from the justice and the laws of God, that all things may be done in order and in solemnity before him, according to truth and righteousness." The various offices in the two Priesthoods, are clearly defined in this revelation, the deacon, teacher and priest in the Aaronic Priesthood, with the bishop as presiding ward officer, the elder, high priest and seventy, with the Twelve Apostles and the First Presidency of the Church presiding over all quorum; and offices of the Priesthood. Later came the organization which placed the women in their supplementary fields of public activity; the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary Association. Thus every individual in the Church has a place in its active operation, sharing the responsibility and the authority. Nor did a council of men outline and define these offices and degrees as the Council of Nice did for the distracted and quarrel-torn early Christian congregations in the fourth century. The Lord revealed the order of the Priesthood, in all its bounds and possibilities to the prophet as defined in Section 107. The officers in our Church are brought before the local and general conferences of the Church for the suffrages of each member, men and women, at least twice every year. There is a complete harmony or blending of both group and individual right in this divinely organized Church. We should study the organization and order of the Priesthood as it forms one of the strongest testimonies possible to the divinity of the work.

Thus is united the pure democratic form of government with the pure monarchial form, the people governing themselves, yet each amenable to that authority which finally centers in Christ.

1. What do you mean by Organization?

2. What can you say of the organization of the Church in The Savior's day? (See Ready Reference.)

3. Who commissioned Peter?

4. Describe the organization of the Roman Catholic church?

5. What was the Reformation?

6. How are the Protestant churches organized? (See Sec. 26:2, Doc. And Cov.)

7. Describe the organization of this Church.

8. What do you mean by group form of organization?

9. How is the individual right or agency maintained in our Church organization? (See Sec. 26:2, Doc. And Cov.)

10. What is woman's place in the Church organization?

Work and Business (Second WEEK IN April)

LESSON III, Literature (Third Week of April)

The first issue of the Millennial Star edited by Parley P. Pratt, was given to the world in May, 1840, ten years after the organization of the Church, and four years before the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It will be eighty-one years this coming May since the Star was first published, thus making it the oldest Church periodical issued up to date, as no other Church publication has extended over a similar period of time.

120 .

It was on the outer cover of the first issue of the Millennial Star that the hymn, "The morning breaks, the shadows flee" was first printed. It is safe to say that few periodicals have made their bow to the world with anything comparable to this hymn. There are forty-four of Parley P. Pratt's hymns published in the Latter-day Saint hymn book, a greater number from his pen than the pen of any other author. Admitting the excellence of many of his other hymns, he reached his high water mark in this deservedly popular song. Not all hymns are poems, this hymn is a poem. It gives us a great and exalted message couched in exquisite and effective imagery. To accord with the exaltation of thought and feeling, we have language so heightened in quality, that some critics characterize such lines as poetic flights. At this point we shall devote a little space to describing two figures of speech generally employed by poets, for the embellishment of their verse, namely, the comparison and the metaphor. A comparison recognizes a likeness between two given things and expresses the resemblance. One of the exquisite comparisons of literature is found in Lowell's "Vision of Sir Launfal," reading, "His words were shed softer than leaves from the pine, And they fell on Sir Launfal like snows on the brine." It is difficult to think of anything falling softer than snows on the brine. A metaphor states one thing in terms of another, an allegory is nothing more than an extended metaphor. When Shakespeare had one of his characters say, "Night's candles are burnt out," he used a metaphor, we know that he means the stars are no longer visible, and that the dawn is appearing, but we are greatly pleased to have the stars called candles. It is evident that he is telling us one thing in terms of another, and it gives us a pleasant surprise. The metaphor is frequently employed in poetic composition, and very heightened prose discourse. Elder Pratt makes good use of this figurative speech because of its rare beauty and effectiveness. The hymn is very fittingly given the first place in the hymn book. It is small wonder indeed that it should have attracted both George Careless, and Evan Stephens; both composers having set it to music. The story of the Careless music is interesting. Professor Careless was the leader of the choir of the London branch, while he was in England, a choir of which the London Saints were justly proud. He came to America in 1864, on a ship called the Hudson. On that vessel was a group of people who had sung in his London choir. The Careless music to "The morning breaks, the shadows flee" was composed on shipboard and named Hudson, which title it bears in the Latter-day Saints Psalmody. Elder Careless

gathered his former choir members together, they learned the hymn to the new music, and sang it to the captain of the ship, at the same time presenting him with a copy. The captain expressed himself as very greatly delighted with the composition. So much by way of history and introduction. Turning to the hymn we find: "The morning breaks, the shadows flee." Light seems to be the most natural word to express the coming forth of truth and knowledge, as opposed to ignorance and error, whose usual symbol is darkness. Indeed, so natural is this process of thought that we have the word "light" in enlightenment. The poet likens the issuing in of the gospel dispensation to a dawn, in all its loveliness—a picture of surpassing beauty—which is dispelling the shade of night. Yet beautiful as is this picture, the emphasis is not upon the physical, but upon the intellectual, and spiritual. The combined power of this picture is only employed to convey the poet's message. The second line, "Lo Zion's standard is unfurled," carries with it a note of supreme exultation. Then follows the announcement that, "The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world." The figure as conceived in the first line is carried throughout the stanza, and the dawning is that of a brighter day, spiritually and intellectually, which is the burden of the poet's message. The second stanza reads: "The clouds of error disappear, Before the rays of truth divine, The glory bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine." The figure employed in the first stanza is aptly carried through the second. Again the poet draws his imagery from the sky; the cloud which is dark is the symbol of error. The first two lines are of prime importance. The quality of suggestiveness has already been noted in the lessons. Here we have it employed in truly marvelous fashion. Think for an instant how the rays of truth divine have enlightened the world, in relation to the Godhead, the premortal, the mortal, and immortal existences. Is it not at once evident that the suggestive quality of these two lines is poetically inexhaustible?

122 .

Then follows that rather extraordinary word, glory, which means resplendent, magnificent, majestic, etc. The three words, "Glory bursting from afar," are a very telling combination of words, hence the very effective lines, "The glory bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine." "The Gentile fulness now comes in, And Israel's blessings are at hand. Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from sin, Shall in their promised Canaan stand." The first line suggests scriptural promises concerning the time of the Gentiles, followed by the thought that Israel has been promised many blessings, which in the light of the restored gospel will be realized. Nor is Judah to be forgotten, for, cleansed from sin, by her long night of banishment, and severe persecution, she is to be forgiven and returned to her promised Canaan. This stanza is full on the thought-content side, and from the standpoint of suggestiveness; but it has not the purely literary merit of the first two stanzas.

"Jehovah speaks! Let earth give ear, And Gentile nations turn and live; His mighty arm is making bare, His covenant people to receive." This stanza is a repetition of the supreme message of the hymn, made specific by the expression, "Jehovah speaks." Nothing could possibly have happened as truly startling to the world, as that Jehovah should speak. The world might discover a continent of vast riches, delve into the secrets of science, and change the whole mode of life, but such an experience could not rank in importance with Jehovah speaking. Then comes the missionaries' appeal to the Gentile nations: "Let earth give ear, and Gentile nations turn and live." Elder Pratt was interested in a great mission; he was editing a missionary journal, and it is perfectly natural that the intense appeal of the missionary to the world should appear in this hymn. We should perhaps think it lacking in a very important factor, if we did not discover this appeal to mankind. Then follows the promise to those who "give ear," that his, Jehovah's mighty arm is making bare, his covenant people to receive."

"Angels from heaven and truth from earth Have met, and both have record borne; Thus Zion's light is bursting forth To bring her ransomed children home."

We expect condensed thought in poetry. This last stanza is a very excellent example of just that very important literary quality, quite indispensable in poetry. The Church was ten years old when this poem was written; the two most important facts in connection with the Church was that angels had spoken, revealing the Divine will, and that the Book of Mormon had come forth, hence the lines: "Angels from heaven and truth from earth Have met, and both have record borne." The last two lines of the hymn are a repetition of the thought, in language not before employed, that truth has come into the world for the ransoming of the children of men. The figure used in the opening lines has been carried through. The first line says, "The morning breaks," and the last line speaks of "Zion's light bursting forth."

In summarizing the literary qualities of this hymn, we note the fact that we have a great message expressed in beautiful and effective imagery; that the verse is pleasing to the ear, and that the quality of suggestiveness reaches the high water mark, in its power to draw on the information and imagination of the reader; that the emotional content is exalted, the diction telling, and the ideas condensed. It is a literary gem that bids fair to survive in Latter-day Saint hymnology and literature, as long as time and eternity shall endure.

1. State the message of this hymn in your own language.

2. What is meant by the emotional content of a poem?

3. "The clouds of error disappear before the rays of truth divine." How have the "rays of truth divine" affected the knowledge of the world in relation to the Godhead, preexistence, Christ's divinity, baptism for the living and the dead, marriage, and the life to come?

4. What meaning do you place on the words, the "glory bursting from afar," and "truth from earth have met," etc.?

5. What is a comparison? Give an example.

6. What is a metaphor? Give an example.

7. What words are employed to symbolize knowledge and truth?

8. What words are employed to symbolize ignorance and error?

9. Take your hymn book and select your five favorite hymns from the pen of Parley P. Pratt. Analyze them.

10. Have a member of the class analyze them; give a brief sketch of the life of Parley P. Pratt.

124 .

LESSON IV. Social Service FOURTH WEEK IN APRIL.

Community health is the business of every individual in the community, not, as many appear to believe, the special business of the health officers. Desirable health conditions are secured only through the whole-hearted cooperation of all concerned; organization is essential to the accomplishment of the best results. In every city and town there should be a voluntary association of private individuals to cooperate with the local health officers and the local medical association in the study of diseases prevalent in the community—their source, method of communication, and means of control.

1. Has your community a voluntary citizen's organization for the promotion of health?

2. What proportion of the population does it represent?

3. Does its members include a majority of the community's representative citizens?

4. Do its members cooperate with health officers in trying to prevent spread of disease by (a) obeying sanitary regulations; (b) reporting all cases of communicable diseases, and complying with quarantine requirements?

State boards of health usually control matters pertaining to health conditions, affecting the entire state, for example, drugs and foods; state wide epidemics, etc. In many states the state board controls operation of water and sewage plants. Local boards, however, usually control problems of sanitation and hygiene, and local epidemics. In New York City the board for formulating ordinances consists of a health commissioner, the commissioner of police, and the court physician. Their powers are almost unlimited and their ordinances have the force of law. These ordinances are administered under six heads of business, viz.:

1. Medical inspection, including (a) contagious diseases—disinfection, isolation, quarantine, etc.; (b) School inspection; (c) Child hygiene—infant mortality.

2. Food inspection.

3. Sanitation—draining, plumbing, housing, streets, etc.

4. Vital statistics.

5. Laboratories—antitoxins, etc., research.

6. Records, contracts, publicity.

1. What is the organization and what the powers of the local board in your community?

2. Does the board make free examination of water, milk, and suspected foods?

3. Does it examine free of charge, sputum, etc., from suspected cases of communicable diseases?

4. Does it print for public distribution ordinances bearing on public health?

5. Is the public supplied with information on number of cases of communicable diseases and on resulting deaths?

6. Is it supplied with data on local birth rate and death rate?

7. Does the board of health publish and distribute educational material on health subjects?

8. Does it require reports on cases of communicable disease from: (a) Attending physicians; (b) Superintendents of institutions; (c) Proprietors of hotels; (d) Owners of apartments and dwellings; (e) Superintendents of schools? Are children excluded from school when there are cases of communicable disease in the home?

9. Is the board provided with sufficient funds to do its work efficiently? (Authorities state that 50c to $1 per capita is necessary for this purpose).

Local physicians, especially when organized, constitute one of the most important factors in the betterment of a community's health conditions. This is particularly true in smaller towns where the two or three physicians are often the only health experts in residence.

1. Has your community a medical association?

2. Do its members, collectively and individually, instruct their patients in sanitation, personal hygiene?

3. Do its members, when requested, furnish lectures for mothers' clubs, parent-teacher association, etc.?

4. Do they report to the health officers births, deaths, and cases of communicable diseases?

Among the factors for prevention and control of disease may be mentioned:

1. Community housekeeping, which includes a pure water supply, clean milk, and other food materials, clean markets, clean streets, etc.

126 .

2. Hospitals and sanitoria.

3. Clinics.

4. Educational agencies: (a) board of health bulletins and reports; (b) public lectures; (c) health lessons in public schools; (d) public health nurses.

1. What is the source of your town's water supply?

2. Is it adequately protected from contamination?

3. Does the city provide efficient inspection of its milk and food supply?

4. In what manner are garbage, sewage, and filth disposed of?

5. Are the streets kept clean? By what means?

6. Has your community a hospital or sanitorium, or bath? Are they favorably located as regards light, pure air, noise?

7. How are they supported?

8. Are they adequate for the care of the community's sick?

In an effort to show that smoking does not affect the voice for singing, a booklet, issued by The Tobacco Merchants Association of the United States entitled, "About Cigarettes," says: "Caruso smokes cigarettes almost continuously." The press dispatches carried the news that Caruso burst blood vessels in his throat twice within ten days during the month of December, while singing in New York—another instance showing that increased blood pressure from the effect of nicotine is not desirable. Even though smoking should not noticeably affect the voice of a singer, any school boy or girl knows that a vocalist cannot long continue bursting blood vessels in his throat and "get away with it."

Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices. Call at our Burial Clothes Department. Room 22 Bishop's Building. Prompt attention given all out of town orders.

Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286

Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month

For the past TEN MONTHS. One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have You Seen It?