[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: VIRGIN CITY, DIXIE. | Author: Unknown]

VIRGIN CITY, DIXIE.
	THE annual meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety convened in the Virgin City meeting
house Feb. 3, 1898. Meeting was called to
order by Sister Emma Hinton. President
Sariah Workman and her counselors, Emma
Hinton and Mary Spendlove were present,
also Counselor Charles Burk. After the
usual exercises of singing and prayer the
roll was called showing an attendance of
twenty-one; the secretary read the annual
report showing an average attendance of
eighteen. The treasurer then read her re-
port showing a little increase of property in
the past year. We have on hand some lit-
tle means necessary for burying our dead,
for we live in some very trying circum-
stances. We have no store to depend on,
and it is impossible to get what we want at
the right time.
	Brother Charles Burk was the first speak-
er. He said he felt grateful to the sisters
for the good they had done in the past, and
knew that the spirit of the Lord was with
them.
	President Workman and several other
sisters also spoke. Said they felt grateful
for the many blessings we have enjoyed.
We live in a little far off corner, but we try
to live for the hope that is within us; but
when one looks around and reads the news-
papers it makes one think that peace is
taken from the earth. And yet we are
supposed to be preparing for the coming of
our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ; for we
believe that not only the Latter-day Saints
have faith in His near advent but the
whole Christian world seems to feel more or
less the spirit of the times, and that great
events are about to transpire and we hope
not to be found asleep, and if we are awake
we may be found among those who have
oil in their vessels and their lamps trimmed
and burning.
EMILY A. STRATTON, Sec.
LAIE OAHU, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.
Dear Sister:
	You will please find inclosed our Relief
Society report for the past year, and think-
ing that the readers of the “Exponent”
would be interested in hearing from this
part of the Lord’s vineyard, I take pleasure
in writing to you as nearly as possible what
we are doing.
	I am pleased to say that the work is pro-
gressing nicely, and I think our association
will compare favorably with others. We
find among the Hawaiian sisters many
faithful and energetic workers. They take
great interest in learning of things pertain-
ing to the Gospel and I have known some
of them to walk from three to eight miles to
attend meeting. Many of them are very
thoughtful in caring for the Elders who are
traveling on the adjacent islands, providing
food for them and attending to their wash-
ing.
	At present there are twenty-eight branch-
es, and as a rule meetings are held
weekly. We hold officers meeting the
second Saturday of each month. This day
is the special fast day for the missionaries
laboring here. The officers meeting is held
at our Mission house, and we instruct the
native sisters in regard to the Relief Soci-
ety work. We have a short program in
which we take up the principles of the
Gospel. Every two weeks visitors are sent
out to encourage the members to attend
their meetings, and once in six weeks I


send some of the leading sisters to the other
islands to visit them in their conferences,
and I hope that we missionary sisters may
be able to visit all the branches of the
society on the islands in the near future.
	At present their are five sisters on the
mission, myself, Sister Ella C. Berdno, Sis-
ter Tryphena B. Garff, Sister Elizabeth C.
Williams and Sister Jennie Patten Musser.
We are striving for a knowledge of the lan-
guage and endeavoring in our weak way to
teach the sisters here principles that will
elevate them. Besides our Relief Society
work we each have a class in the Sunday
School and assist in the Mutual Improve-
ment and the Primary work. We have our
temporal labors to attend to, and feel thank-
ful for having the privilege of spending a
portion of our time in assisting to roll on
this great work. We feel that we have
been greatly blessed in so doing.
	Any word of encouragement or instruct
tion from our leading sisters at home would
be gladly received by us. We receive
regularly your valuable and interesting
paper which is greatly appreciated by us.
			Your sister in the Gospel,
