[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: REORGANIZATION. | Author: Unknown]

REORGANIZATION.
	I write to inform you of the reorganiza-
tion of the Relief Society of St. John’s
ward, which occurred March 25, 1898.
Anna D. Kempe who had served faithfully
for four years as president, being a widow
and having to work very hard to support
her family felt she was unable to perform
her duty in that position, and therefore
tendered her resignation which was accepted
and she was honorably released. She is a
very energetic woman and is well respected
by the members of the Relief Society as
president, also by the community at large.
	President E. L. S. Udall, Stake president of
the Relief Society being here at the time, a
special meeting was called and President
Udall together with her counselor, Emily
Patterson and the Bishop of the ward, select-
ed the following officers: Margaret Jarvis,
president; Anna L. Anderson, first counsel-
or; Eleanor Patterson, second counselor;
R. B. Berry, secretary; Sina Stradling,
assistant secretary; Sarah Berry, treasurer.
					R. E. BERRY, Sec.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE. 
	The quarterly conference of the Re-
lief Society of St. Joseph Stake, Arizona,
convened at Thatcher, March 11, 1898,
Counselor Mary L. Ransom presiding in the
absence of the president, Elizabeth Layton,
who was sustained in that position at the
late reorganization of the Stake, President
Wilmirth East who has filled the office so
long and so well, being honorably released
on account of her advanced age and feeble-
ness.
	After opening exercises and reading of
minutes Counselor Ransom made a few re-
marks. Verbal reports of the several

[Column 2]
branches were given by their representative
presidents or counselors and listened to
with much interest by all present. Visits of
the Stake officers were reported by Counsel-
or Ransom, showing an improvement in all
of the branches of the Society in the Stake,
and a desire to continue in the good work.
She spoke in an interesting and impressive
manner on the duties of officers and mem-
bers of the Relief Society, and closed by
praying the blessings of God might be up-
on all.
	President Andrew Kimball gave excellent
counsel to the sisters, in which he said wo-
men have a great influence and should use
it for good.
	After singing, and prayer by Bishop John
Taylor, conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
	At 12:10 the officers met at the residence
of President Elizabeth Layton, receiving
instructions from Counselor Delia Curtis,
President Elizabeth Layton, President Wil-
liam Johnson and President Andrew Kimball.
	At 2 p. m. conference re-convened.
After singing, and prayer by Bishop George
Skinner, statistical and financial reports
were read. The names of the central board
and Stake officers were presented by Coun-
selor Delia Curtis and unanimously sus-
tained, after which she read a selection
from the Millennial Star.
	Stake president of the Primary, Rebecca
Warren, next addressed the conference, with
Annie Yorgan of Mexico, Secretary Salina
Phillips, Patriarch Samuel Claridge, Presi-
dent W. D. Johnson, Bishop Isaac Zundel
and Treasurer E. Allred following with a
recital of such experiences and testimonies
as would tend to strengthen the faith of all
the Latter-day Saints, praying the Lord to
bless us that we might have power in the
land for good. Benediction was pronounced
by Bishop C. B. Boren.
			SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.
SAN JUAN.
	Minutes of the Stake conference of the
Relief Society of San Juan. Conference
convened at Bluff, Feb. 20, 1898, President
Martha Hammond presiding. Opened with
the usual exercises.
	President Martha Hammond said she
hoped the Lord would pour out a goodly
portion of His Spirit upon the sisters that
we might be blessed and built up during
our conference and better qualified for our
labors and duties in the future as wives,
mothers and Relief Society workers. Re-
ported her labors among the different
branches of the society.
	The several branches in the Stake were
reported as follows: President Kisten Neil-
son said the Bluff ward Relief Society was
in good condition, the sisters being on hand
to donate when necessary and trying to im-
prove and advance in all that is good.
	President Norah Hammond said the mem-
bers of the Mancos society attended when
possible, but on account of the settlement
being scattered it was not possible for
mothers with families of small children to
attend regularly in the winter season, and
for the same reason meetings were not al-
ways held regularly. Said she felt blest
and well paid for the sacrifices she had
made to attend the quarterly conference.
	President Mary M. Jones reported the
Monticello society as being on the improve
during the last six months.
	A letter was read from the president of
the Fruitland branch stating that the soci-
ety was in good condition, a good spirit pre-
vailing among the sisters.

[Column 3]
Stake Counselor Mary N. Jones had been
greatly blest in attending our conference.
Said if the instructions that had been given
in regard to the training of children were
remembered and practiced we would have
better communities and better boys and
girls. Counselor Eliza Redd followed in
the same strain as the previous speakers
in regard to the training of children, and
gave some very good instructions on that
subject.
	Sister Delia Lyman said she was glad that
mothers were waking up to a sense of their
duties and seeing the necessity of keeping
their little boys close around them as they
do their little girls; for they learn many evil
things by roaming the streets.
	Elder Adam Peterson, one of the Young
Mens’ M. I. A. missionaries, was the next
speaker. He said he felt that we could not
do without the Relief Society; spoke elo-
quently of the duties of husbands to wives
and of sons to mothers and sisters. He felt
that woman was worthy of much more than
many gave her credit for; to her we were
indebted for the better and finer parts of our
being. Spoke at some length on obedience
to parents and the priesthood.
	The minutes of the previous conference
were read and approved, after which the
General and Stake officers were unanimous-
ly sustained. President F. A. Hammond en-
dorsed the remarks that had been made.
President Martha Hammond made a few
closing remarks, hoped the sisters would
feel blest in coming to conference, even if
they did have to travel over bad roads.
Conference adjourned for three months,
to be held at Fruitland. The choir sang
“Guide us O Thou Great Jehovah,” and 
Bishop Jens Neilson pronounced the bene-
diction. 
				EVELYN ADAMS, Sec.
SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of Sanpete Stake held in Ephraim, March
11, 1898, President M. A. Hyde presiding.
Singing “Come, come ye Saints.” Open-
ing prayer by President Peterson. Singing
“We thank Thee O God for a prophet.” The
following branches were represented: Eph-
raim North ward, Fairview, Mt. Pleasant,
Manti North and South wards, Moroni,
Chester, Ephraim South ward, Mayfield,
Sterling and Freedom. Fountain Green,
Spring City, Milburn, Indianola, Gunnison
and Centerfield were not reported.
	Opening remarks were made by Presi-
dent M. A. Hyde Sister Emmeline B.
Wells spoke at some length upon the neces-
sity of entertaining a spirit of humility and
obedience. Related her impressions when
she first saw the Prophet Joseph.
	President J. D. T. McAllister was the
next speaker. He said he felt that we were
greatly blest in having the privilege of
meeting together, and that we were ac-
quainted with each other before we came
here to prepare for the life to come. Said
the Relief Society was one of the great
helps of the Church and thanked God for it.
Exhorted the sisters to reach out a helping
hand to those who were in affliction, and to
strive to exert a saving influence over those
who were falling by the wayside. Admon-
ished the young people to be pure and
virtuous. Dwelt on the necessity of the
young people of Zion entering the marriage
relation in a proper manner, and invoked
the Divine blessing upon the sisters.
	Singing “Guide Us O, Thou Great Jeho-


[Column 1]
vah.” Benediction by Bishop Anderson.
	Afternoon session. Singing “Now let
us rejoice.” Opening prayer by Brother J.
F. Dorius. President Hyde was pleased
with the reports of the various wards. En-
couraged the storing of grain, and all good
works pertaining to the Relief Society.
	Sister Annie Hyde was pleased to have
another opportunity of meeting with the
sisters of Sanpete, and urged the necessity
of a spirit of love and charity. Said that
the Spirit of the Lord would not dwell
where there was strife and contention. Ex-
horted the mothers to train their children in
the way they should go to become faithful
Latter-day Saints. Also referred to the
Prophet Joseph.
	President M. A. Hyde spoke words of
comfort and blessing to President Peterson
and the sisters in the gift of tongues, which
was interpreted by Sister Wells.
	President Peterson said “We are living in
an interesting age of the world, but the
signs of the times indicate that the end is
near.” Also made some remarks on the
life of the Prophet Elijah.
	Elder Andrew Jensen was the next
speaker. He dwelt upon the duties and re-
sponsibilities of mothers in training the
children when the fathers were absent in
the mission field. Spoke of the danger of
allowing scoffers and unbelievers to associate
with our children, and related a circum-
stance of this kind which had come under
his observation. Eulogized the good
work of the Relief Society.
	“MRS. ANNIE M. BROWN, of Brattleboro,
has been appointed by Attorney General
Griggs as clerk of the United States Attor-
ney’s Department for the district of Ver-
mont. Most of the depositions and other
legal testimony taken stenographically in
Brattleboro and vicinity for some time past
has been taken by Mrs. Brown, and she is
regarded as fully competent.”
	Sister Wells said we should improve in
our duties, but should work on the founda-
tion which has been laid. Paid tribute to
the sterling virtues and good works of Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow and others of the aged
and faithful sisters who have labored so
long. Considered the Relief Society the
greatest organization of women in the
world. Was pleased to state that we had
branches of the Relief Society in Chicago,
California, Holland and Scandinavia. She
spoke of the necessity of encouraging the
silk industry.
	Singing “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by J. F. Dorius.

