[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. | Author: Unknown]

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS the Great and Supreme Ruler of the
universe has in His infinite wisdom removed from
us one of our worthy and esteemed fellow labor-
ers, Emma Brown, and
	WHEREAS, The long and intimate relation held
with her in the faithful discharge of her duties in
this Relief Society makes it eminently befitting 
that we record our appreciation of her. There-
fore be it
	RESOLVED, That the willing and faithful aid
that she exercised in our organization by service,
contribution and counsel will be held in grateful
remembrance.
	RESOLVED, That the sudden removal of such a
life from our midst leaves a vacancy and a shadow
that will be deeply realized by all the members
and friends of this organization, and her service,
contribution and counsel will be held in grateful
remembrance.
	RESOLVED, That with deep sympathy with the
bereaved relatives of the deceased we express
our hope that even so great a loss to us all may
be over-ruled for good by Him Who doeth all
things well.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these res[-]lutions be
placed upon the records of this organization, a
copy published in the local paper and in the “Wo-
man’s Exponent.”
				MELISSA MURDOCK, Pres.
				ANNIE WRIGHT, Sec.
CHRISTINA GRAEME MCINTYRE.
	Sister Christina Graeme McIntyre, daughter of
James and Mary Brady Graeme, died Nov. 28,
1897, at the residence of her daughter, Sister
Jennette Kelley, American Fork, Utah, where she
had gone on a visit. Her home was in Mi[-]l
Creek ward, Salt Lake county. She was born in
Oct. 1813 at Craigh Lee Wood, Renfesshire Scot-
land. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1843 and emigrated
to Utah in 1863. She was the mother of nine
children and had forty-two grandchildren and
thirty-nine great grandc[-]ildren. Some of this
large posterity have gone before to the spirit
world.
	Sister Christina passed through many trying
scenes in an early day for the Gospel she had em-
braced, but she was ever firm and true, living her
religion for the consolation it gave her. She had
been very handsome in her youth and she retain-
ed her good looks with a grace and dignity that
rested we[-]l upon her in her declining years.
	She was not prominent in society but her home
qualities endeared her to her children, re[-]atives
and friends. The principles of the Gospel was
her constant theme. She was a firm believer in
gifts and blessings being conferred on those who
seek earnestly for them. She was a faithful mem-
ber of the Relief Society as long as she was able
to attend, and many of the faithful testimonies she
bore are recorded in the Society’s record books.
She will be held in faithfu[-] remembrance by those
who are left to continue the work.
	She was tenderly cared for by her daughter and
all was done for her that love and affection could
do. Being intimately acquainted with her daugh
ter, Sister Mary McAllister, we can speak of her
untiring devotion to her mother.
	The remains were brought to her granddaugh
ter’s, Sister Mary M. Williams, who resides in
Mill Creek ward, where the funeral services were
held. Many loving friends assembled to pay their
last respects to one with whom they loved to as-
sociate in the past. Brother Jo[-]eph E. Taylor of
the Stake presidency, Elder John Henry Smith of
Salt Lake City, the Bishopric of the ward and
some of the local brethren each spoke of the 
goodness and faithfulness of our dear departed
sister and gave words of comfort and encourage-
ment to those present. 
	After the close of the services the cortege form
ed which conveyed the loved one to the city
cemetrey where she was laid to rest in peace.
				ELIZABETH HILL, Pres.
				FRANCES H. HANSON, Sec.
	Mill Creek Ward Relief Society.
AGNES HAMILTON.
	Agnes Hamilton, daughter of John and Elizabeth
Hamtilon was born in Shelburn, Nova Scotia, Sep.
20, 1818; moved from there to Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania where she married Richard Curfew in
August 1847; she died at the reside[-]ce of her son,
James Curfew in Lower Valley, Beaver Co. Utah,
Oct. 26, 1897. The remains were brought to
Beaver City for burial and funeral services were

[Column 2]
held in the Latter-day Saints meeting house Oct,
28, comforting and consoling remarks being offer-
ed by Elder William Fotheringham, President C.
D. White and Bishop George Mumford, after
which they were followed to their last resting
place in the city cemetery by a large cortege of
relatives and friends.
	Sister Hamilton was the mother of six children,
three sons and three daughters, and had thirty-
two grandchildren. A son and a daughter and
ten grandchildren preceded her to the spirit world.
	She embraced the Gospel in her native town,
emigrated from Philadelphia to Utah and s[-]ttled
in Beaver in 1861. She became a member of the
Relief Society when it was first organized in the
latter place. She was a teacher for a number of
years and was ever ready and willing to assist in
any and every cal[-]; and altho’ she had re[-]ided
the last few years of her life with her children in
various places, she frequently visited her daughter
who still resided here, but was called away by
the hand of death five months previous to her
mother’s demise. In all of her visits she was
gladly welcomed by her sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety where she had labored so faithfully, her
name being always retained on the roll. She
passed through trying circumstances but never
complained that her lot was hard. When her
husband was called to part with a plural wife who
left an infant a few days old she took the little
babe and cared for it as her own, and that child,
now a young man, feels her loss as an own
mother.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father in His alwise
profidence has seen fit to take from our midst by
the hand of death our beloved sister and co-
laborer, Sister Agnes Hamilton, be it
	RESOLVED, That we the members of the Beaver
Relief Society extend our sympathy to the be-
reaved children and grandchildren in this sad
hour of trial and bereavement.
	RESOLVED, That we strive to emulate her many
noble deeds and cherish in our hears that love
for her which she so truly won.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, a copy be placed on
the Society record and one be sent to the “Wo-
man’s Exponent” for publication,
			JANE W. BICKLEY, Pres.
			ALICE M. TANNER, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]
