[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: PILGRIMS OF THE WEST. | Author: Unknown]

PILGRIMS OF THE WEST.

THERE are tunes that fit to the player’s lyre
	As airs seem born for the leaf-stringed trees;
There are themes that thrill to the poet’s fire
	As a flame leaps high on the desert breeze.
And of all of the themes that the land has known—
	To make the soul of a bard aspire—
	Of faith, toil, sacrifice—none are higher
Than a tale that our far west calls her own.

It had its source in a faith whose test
	Outrivals those idylls of orient lore—
Mohammed’s mission, the Buddh’s great quest—
	And the thousand myths of Hellene’s shore;—
A vision won by a boy’s prayer,
	A wondrous tale by an angel told
	Of an ancient mound and its plates of gold,
And a new world creed that their leaves should
	bear.

And from that strange fountain a slender stream
	Ran out and grew to a rolling flood,
For thousands thrilled at the Prophet’s dream,
	And signed their faith with a seal of blood;
And, at last to the hosts of his gathered flock
	A final edict of exile came—
	A word that the unknown west should claim
As the mould of her life’s foundation rock.

They left fair homes at a stern fate’s need
	And turned their steps to the setting sun
Where freedom sought for a faith-held creed,
	In the untrod wilderness might be won.
Forbade of the haunts of men they drew
	To the desert’s ominous, empty heart,
	And the halo of martyr,s and Spartan’s part
The wastes of the lonely prairies knew.

For terrors dwelt in the desert’s hush—
	Treacherous Indians ambuscade,
The herded buffalo’s tempest-rush,
	The prairie famine of fire’s raid;
And the line of their weary wagon tread
	Haunted with hardships for unused feet—
	Privation, piercings of sun and sleet,
Was sown with graves of the wayside dead.

Suns waned, and the plodding pilgrims saw
	The haze of the fair horizon line
On the speckless edge of the desert draw
	No hint of the promised Zion’s sign.
The noons spread wide on the trailless sands,
	The blue nights paced with their golden train
	O’er the Sister-vast of a spaceless plain
That the red dawns circled with widening bands.
 
Yet at last the ridges of snow-rimmed hills
	Filed their ranks to the eye-strained view,
And out from the edge of their upland sills
	The peak-walled curve of a valley drew
Its sunburned, sage-choked, ample space
	To aline stretched wide at its western rim—
	Radiant, crisping-a sea’s blue brim—
Cupped in the colorless prairie-face.

[Column 2]
And they hailed the spot as the land foretold
	Where the lofty tree of their faith should grow,
And pitched their tents on the desert mould
	In the eastward bend of the salt sea’s bow.
And their faith—hard nurtured by sorest b[-]ight—
	Cold, danger, famine, the cricket-curse—
	As a child by a kind, harsh seeming nurse—
Brought on the land to its day of light.

A fair, rose-gardened city grew 
	On the barren shores of the hermit sea;
And the world’s far marts erstwhile close drew
	With Trade’s white banner of amity.
For steam crushed out wit[-] its geni-stride
	The vaunted leagues of the trackles plains
	That had taunted their crawling wagon trains—
And peace drew in with the travel tide.

And today through the length of the hope thrilled
		land,
	After a half a hundred years—
The foes of a buried past strike hard,
	O'er a strong bridged chasm of hates and fears
And join in the joy of a rivalled zest
	—Barred not of race, of color or creed—
	To render honor—a fitting meed
To the Pioneers of the inland west.

That dawning of peace with its hope thrilled song
	Is a pæan hymned to the long past years—
To the dead and the living—the brave and strong
	Who conquered the desert—the Pioneers 1
And we pledge that day when the honored name
	Of the State they nurtured through grace dvine
	By the right of her thousand gifts shall shine,
A soverei[-]n light of the Nation’s fame?
