[Vol28 | December 1941 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Marion G. Romney]

The Church Welfare Program For 1942
Marion G. Romney Assistant Managing Director of Church Welfare Program (Relief Society General Conference, Officers' Meeting, Thursday, October 2, 1941) ELIEF SOCIETY workers and R members of the General Welfare Committee touch common ground in their respective assignments in the Church; that common ground is in being called to assist the bishops in administering telief to the poor and needy of our brethren and sisters in the Church. If we are to properly discharge the duties of our assignment, we must thoroughly understand the nature, purpose, and aim of the relief which the bishops are to render and in the rendering of which we are to be aids. Since being assigned to work with the General Welfare Committee, I have sought diligently to determine what that relief is. What I say this morning is, with some of my own interpretations, taken largely from the revelations and the teachings of our living leaders on that question. By divine injunction there has been placed upon the bishops the responsibility of administering relief to the poor of the Church. In placing this responsibility the Lord has said, ""The office of a bishop is in administering all temporal things... Having a knowledge of them by the Spirit of truth." (Doctrine and Covenants 107:68-71 ) To the bishop is given all the powers and responsibilities which the Lord has specifically prescribed for the caring of the poor. To him go the funds necessary therefor, and to him are given the gifts and functions necessary for carrying on the work. No one else is charged with this duty and responsibility. No one else is endowed with the power and functions. Necessary for this work. It is his duty, and his only, to determine to whom, when, how, and how much shall be given to any member of his ward from Church funds and as ward help. This is his high and solemn obligation imposed by the Lord himself. The bishop cannot escape this duty; he cannot shirk it; he cannot pass it on to someone else and so relieve himself. Whatever help he calls in, he is still responsible in carrying out the obligation. However, the bishop may and usually does call upon the Relief Society and now the Church welfare organization for assistance. The rendering of this assistance is a most important work, one which no one can do quite so well as can you. It is not my purpose to instruct you how to perform the details of this assignment. That instruction you are receiving from your able. Leaders, Sister Lyman and her associates of the  of the individual and is the primary measure by which public relief is gauged and its amount determined. All possible safeguards must be thrown around the help thus given to prevent one person getting more help than others in his class.
Private non-church agencies who administer relief do so from philanthropic motives which are altogether good and commendable, but the help given by the bishop is wholly different from either. The Church has been commanded to care for its poor and needy, and the bishop has been charged with the responsiblity and given the power to carry out the commandment. The standard by which the help given is to be measured is indicated by the following laws given by revelation to the Church: Women have claim on their husbands for their maintenance, until their husbands are taken; and if they are not found transgressors they shall have fellowship in the Church. All children have claim upon their parents for their maintenance until they are of age. And after that, they have claim upon the Church, or in other words, upon the Lord's storehouse, if their parents have not wherewith to give them inheritances. And the storehouse shall be kept by the consecrations of the Church; and widows and orphans shall be provided for, as also the poor. (Doctrine and Covenants 83: "2, 4-6) Thus, to the widow the Church is to stand in place of husband; to 843 the orphan in place of parent.
Such an obligation is not met by bestowing a few dollars on a flat uniform scale.
Different individuals have different needs, require different treatment. The Lord has, by revelation, given direction as to where the funds with which to administer the relief are to be obtained.
There are the fast donations and the tithing, and now the great production program under the direction of the Church Welfare Committee. The Lord has warned the rich of the consequences of their failing to contribute to the bishops' storehouse and He has warned those who teceive that their spirits must be contrite and that they must be free from greediness.
Those of us who carry on this great work must have broken hearts and contrite spirits. We must keep in mind that those who are helped must be likewise pure in heart, for the Lord has said: Blessed are the poor who are pure in heart, whose hearts are broken, and whose.
Spirits are contrite, for they shall see the kingdom of God coming in power and great glory unto their deliverance; for the fatness of the earth shall be theirs. For behold, the Lord shall come and his recompense shall be with him, and he shall reward every man, and the poor shall rejoice; And their generations shall inherit the earth from generation to generation, forever and ever. (Doctrine and Covenants 56:18-20) You see, then, that the prime duty of help to the poor by the Church is not only to bring temporal relief to their needs, but salvation to their souls. As the Prophet Joseph Smith said, "The ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." ?
These things cannot be achieved by dollars 844 and cents; therefore, all cannot be brought to the same living standards.
More help must be given here and less there to fit the needs of those in want.
Every case must be judged upon its own merits, and the test of the kind and amount of relief must be measured by the ultimate spiritual uplift.
When the Prophet set up the Relief Society, the revelations regarding bishops and their duties had al- -ready been given. But who other than the sisters of the Relief Society could, as the Prophet said, "pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed, dry up the tears of the orphan, and make the widow's heart to rejoice." The Lord in his wisdom knew that by the very nature of its members and the character of its organization the Relief Society, as an auxiliary to the Priesthood, was peculiarly fitted to advise with the bishops on these matters, and that it should be used by them to administer relief in the homes. He knew that in administering relief the Relief Society women, and they only, could best help in guiding the unskilled, careless, and improvident housewife; advise about budgets; instruct as to the care of the sick; help in time of death; and act as the advocate for the poor to see that want and distress are kept from the doors of the Saints. As the bishop is the "father" of the ward, so the Relief Society may be described as the "mother" of the ward. To assist in this great relief work, as all of you know, some six years ago the Church welfare program was inaugurated under the direction of the First Presidency of the Church.
Before it were set two principal  objectives: "(1) to provide the bishop of the Church with the materials needed by him in meeting his divinely imposed obligations to the poor; (2) to help the Priesthood quorums in their rehabilitation of the unfortunate." (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.) | You are all more or less familiar with the way in which the program is providing the bishop with the needed materials. Our efforts shall be redoubled during the coming year, to increase production, processing, preservation, and distribution. You have always done your full share in this program, and we know you will continue to do so.
While much remains to be done in our assignment "to provide the bishop of the Church with the materials needed," perhaps the second objective, which is "'to help the Priesthood quorums in their rehabilitation of" their quorum members, remains the least developed. We expect that great strides shall be made during the coming year. The Priesthood quorums' responsibilities do not end when each of their members is selfsustaining. 'The spirit of brotherhood requires that each member of the quorums shall be trained, encouraged, and assisted to improve his condition until his temporal and spiritual salvation is assured. The blessings held out as_ the fruits of the Gospel of Jesus Christ cannot be realized other than through cooperative, love-inspired effort, for while it is true that each person will be exalted or otherwise on his own record, this does not mean that we can be exalted alone; that is, without an interest in the rest of our Father's children. A love GENERAL CONFERENCE for and an interest in one's brothers and sisters is an indispensable part of the principles of exaltation. It has always been of the warp. And woof of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. In the days of Moses the Lord commanded, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." (Leviticus 19:18) Jesus to His disciples at the Last Supper said: A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another. (John 13:34-35) The Lord, speaking to His disciples in our day, said: For verily I say unto you, the time has 845 come, and is now at hand; and behold, and lo, it must needs be that there be an organization of my people, in regulating and establishing the affairs of the storehouse for the poor of my people..
That through my providence, notwithstanding the tribulation which shall descend upon you, that the Church may stand independent above all other creatures beneath the celestial world. (Doctrine and Covenants 78:3-14) The welfare program and the Relief Society are two of the agencies of the Church through which we shall move toward this glorious goal. May God help us to catch a sufficiently clear view of our work and the destiny of His people to hold us to our course during these uneasy times and the tribulations which shall follow.