[Vol28 | December 1941 | Sequence: 39 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Science—Rights Versus Responsibilities in the Home]
Social  Science 
Foundations  Of  Successful  Marriage 
Lesson  5 
Rights  Versus  Responsibilities  In  The  Home 
(Tuesday,  March  31,  1942) 
Lesson  Aim:  To  develop  the  thought  that  with  every  right  goes  a  responsibihty, 
and  that  it  is  only  through  the  acceptance  of  responsibiHties  in  the  home  that  marriage 
is  made  successful  and  eternal  progression  is  made  possible. 
CUCCESSFUL  marriage  is  not  on- 
ly an  art,  but  it  is  a  job  as  well. 
Those  who  would  find  supreme  and 
lasting  happiness  in  their  marital  re- 
lationships must  not  only  prepare 
well  before  marriage,  plan  for  and 
experience  a  good  beginning,  and 
learn  the  art  of  mutual  enrichment, 
but  they  must  also  work— daily,  and 
in  the  spirit  of  fair  play.  Marriage, 
like  any  other  great  enterprise,  re- 
quires the  sincere  and  responsible 
effort  of  those  who  would  make  it 
successful.  Happiness  is  the  reward 
of  achievement,  and  achievement 
comes  only  through  struggle. 
No  Rights  Without  ResponsihiUties 
All  that  has  been  said  in  previous 
discussions  about  the  importance  of 
a  proper  attitude  toward  marriage 
applies  to  this  lesson  as  well,  for 
unless  the  married  feel  an  attitude 
of  individual  responsibility  in  the 
adventure  before  them,  they  will  ex- 
ert little  or  no  effort  to  make  it  suc- 
cessful, and  the  whole  thing  will 
likely  collapse. 
There  are  too  many  people  who 
enter  marriage  unprepared  for  the 
adjustments,  sacrifices,  and  genuine 
work  that  it  involves.  There  are 
many  married  people  who  act  emo- 
tionally as  children  or  adolescents, 
and  who  fail  to  assume  the  adult  re- 
sponsibilities demanded  of  them. 
They  look  at  marriage  in  terms  of 
rights  rather  than  responsibilities, 
and  therein  lies  the  secret  of  their 
failure.      Being  emotionally   imma-

868  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER,  1941 
ture,  they  are  quick  to  blame  and  with  Httle  regard  for  the  rights  and 
to  complain,  but  slow  to  cooperate  personality  needs  of  his  wife;  and 
or  admit  faults  within  themselves;  the  girl  who  is  a  thoughtless  ''gold 
they  expect  the  other  person  to  go  digger"  before  marriage  will  usually 
three-fourths  or  all  of  the  way.  There  be  an  expensive  and  irresponsible 
are  too  many  of  these  selfish  indi-  wife  after  the  ceremony.  But 
viduals  who  are  more  willing  to  re-  whether  the  pattern  of  exploitation 
ceive  than  to  give.  showed  itself  in  the  period  of  court- 
Emotional  immaturity  has  refer-  ship  or  not,  its  existence  in  marriage 
ence  to  a  type  of  childishness  fre-  is  a  sign  of  marital  decay, 
quently  manifest  in  adult  behavior.  Students  of  the  family  recognize 
Sometimes  it  is  referred  to  as  ''in-  this  problem  when  they  speak  of  the 
fantilism/'  for  it  makes  people  act  'parasitic  wife/'  whom  they  describe 
much  like  babies.  Chronological  as  a  selfish  and  pampered  woman 
and  biological  maturity  do  not  nee-  who  applies  the  "gold  digging ' 
essarily  result  in  emotional  maturity;  philosophy  to  marriage,  and  who 
sometimes  people  grow  up  phys-  seeks  all  of  the  advantages  without 
ically  without  growing  up  psycholog-  making  any  real  or  worth-while 
ically;  sometimes  people  have  a  lot  contribution  to  it.'  She  is  called  a 
of  birthdays  without  ever  learning  parasite  because  she  is  selfish  and 
to  act  like  adults.  Emotional  im-  fails  to  carry  her  share  of  the  respon- 
maturity  shows  itself  in  patterns  of  sibility.  Sometimes  this  selfishness 
selfishness,  jealousy,  et  cetera.  Cry-  shows  itself  in  an  unwillingness  to 
ing  is  often  used  as  a  weapon  with  have  children,  sometimes  in  exces- 
which  to  injure  the  other  person  or  sive  demands  upon  the  husband's 
to  get  one's  own  way.  Sulking,  pre-  pocketbook,  and  sometimes  in  other 
tending  to  be  hurt,  doing  and  saying  ways;  but  always  a  wife  of  this  kind 
little  things  to  hurt  the  other  per-  is  a  parasite.  And  there  are  para- 
son,  are  ways  of  showing  oneself  to  sitic  husbands  as  well.  Whenever 
be  emotionally  immature.  They  are  any  person  is  unwilling  to  play  the 
also  ways  of  destroying  love  and  game  or  to  do  his  part  in  life,  he  is 
breaking  up  a  happy  home.  a  social  parasite.  How  can  persons 
Marriage,  like  life,  is  a  game  of  such  as  these  hope  to  make  a  suc- 
cooperation,  a  process  of  give  and  cess  of  marriage? 
take.    He  who  tries  to  do  all  of  the         rr  i  u      i    i.         j    i. 
.  1  .  J  r  . r       •  •  It  people  could  only  be  made  to 
takme  and  none  or  the  eivmg  may  Ti.iri.i-i,  -  i  x.       ix. 
.-iff  i-i-Li.  realize  that  there  are  no  nghts  with- 
get  by  tor  a  while,  but  sooner  or         .  •t.ti.-      •£  t,    t?    j        j 
f .     /       Ml  r    1  !_•  •  r  .1  out  responsibilities;  it  husbands  and 
later  he  will  find  his  marnage  a  fail-        •  i  j    u  n-        u 
rrn      1         i.i_  1.  •    1  •    11  J   •  wives    could    be    more   willing    to 
ure.     The  love  that  is  kindled  m  v     1 1      i.u  •    c  m    -u         c  i.i? 
.  r .  -L      -..1  ,^11  shoulder  their  tull  share  ot  the  re- 
courtship  may  be  either  smothered  uii,  j    r    t,ij 
\        ^      r         1   •   .  sponsibility,    and  it  children    were 
m  marriage  or  fanned  into  some-  /  •      i  •     ^  •      .  i  r  i 
.,  .      .  1    .  •     .        1       11-  trained  in  this  atmosphere;  it  love 
thing  that  is  eternal  and  glorious.  -u      j  i       j 
rr    1  ',.  1.-        '  ?i  •       r^  were  based  more  on  work  and  sacri- 
hxploitation    m    courtship  often  r  j  i  j  j        j 
.  ^  .   .  .  r/r,     1  face  and  less  on  sex  demands  and 
carries  over  into  marriage.    The  boy 
who  will  use  and  abuse  his  sweet-  "Tj^^i  ^   ^^^.^^^  ^^^  P^^^^^3  E   M^^. 
heart  for  personal  thrills  will,  as  a  nil,  Sochi  Disorganization,  Harpers,  New 
husband,  usually  do  the  same  thing,  York,  1941  (rev.  ed.),  page  624.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
869 
infatuation;  if  people  would  look  at 
marriage  more  as  a  challenging  job 
and  less  as  a  selfish  right— if  all 
these  things  could  be,  the  chances 
for  successful  marriage  would  be  in- 
creased one  thousand  fold.  And  they 
can  be  done.  The  solution  lies  in 
the  attitude  and  the  courage  of 
parents. 
Integrity  and  the  Happy  Home 
But  the  whole  thing  boils  down 
to  the  fundamental  qualities  of 
character.  The  happy  home  is  the 
home  in  which  each  member  can  be 
trusted  and  respected  by  each  other 
member.  The  responsible  person  is 
the  person  who  is  true  to  the  core, 
who  will  play  the  game  fairly,  who 
will  not  lie,  nor  cheat,  nor  run  away. 
The  responsible  person  is  the  per- 
son who  has  integrity.  Good  old- 
fashioned  honesty  is  at  the  very  heart 
of  successful  marriage.  Too  often 
people  try  to  patch  up  marital  dif- 
ficulties through  lies  and  compro- 
mises rather  than  getting  at  the  roots 
that  lie  deep  in  the  patterns  of  char- 
acter. If  persons  in  trouble  are  sin- 
cere in  their  desire  to  get  out  of 
trouble,  they  should  be  willing  to 
indulge  in  a  little  self-analysis  and 
self-criticism;  they  should  be  willing 
to  ''face  the  music"  rather  than  to 
try  to  shift  the  blame;  they  should 
be  honest  and  courageous. 
The  Dignity  oi  Work 
Closely  tied  up  with  the  idea  that 
assuming  responsibility  with  cour- 
age and  integrity  is  basic  to  success- 
ful marriage,  is  the  idea  that  work 
is  also  essential.  We  have  already 
pointed  to  this  when  we  said  that 
successful  marriage  is  a  job  that 
needs  to  be  tackled  with  earnestness. 
We  need  now  to  further  emphasize 
the  fact  that  assuming  responsibility 
involves  effort  as  well  as  attitude. 
Too  many  men  and  women  pray 
for  easy  lives;  they  not  only  pray, 
but  they  anxiously  seek  to  avoid 
work  and  to  escape  all  in  life  that  is 
really  challenging.  There  is  too 
much  ''escapism"  in  the  philosophy 
of  the  day;  too  much  trying  to  get 
by  with  as  little  effort  as  possible. 
What  is  needed  is  a  little  more  cour- 
age in  facing  the  realities  of  life, 
a  little  more  willingness  to  shoulder 
one's  share,  a  little  more  perspira- 
tion in  the  labors  of  the  day.  The 
importance  of  this  is  clearly  shown 
in  the  following  quotation: 
The  law  of  nature  is,  that  a  certain 
quantity  of  work  is  necessary  to  produce 
a  certain  quantity  of  good  of  any  kind 
whatever.  If  you  want  knowledge,  you 
must  toil  for  it;  if  food  vou  must  toil  for 
it;  and  if  pleasure  you  must  toil  for  it. 
— Knskin 
We  might  add  to  what  Ruskin 
has  said,  that  if  you  want  the  su- 
preme joy  that  successful  family  life 
can  bring,  you  must  toil  for  it. 
Habits  of  either  laziness  or  industry, 
whichever  characterizes  one's  life  in 
general,  are  sure  to  carry  over  into 
the  relationships  of  family  life. 
Women  should  realize  more  fully 
that  there  is  no  job  so  important  or 
so  challenging  as  successful  wife- 
hood and  motherhood.  Without 
this  job  well  done  civilization  could 
not  survive,  and  women  are  the  only 
ones  who  can  do  it.  Homemaking 
is  woman's  greatest  career.  But 
let  no  one  think  that  her  job  in  the 
home  is  an  easy  one;  here  she  is  the 
producer,  the  buyer,  and  the  teacher, 
all  at  the  same  time;  here  she  is  able 
to  make  men  possible  and  to  make 
men  good;  to  create  and  to  inspire. 
The  challenge  of  good  home  man-