Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned' unless return. Postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_07_06_Fict_Postmark_Harlow.txt) ===
lowered him gently to her lap—her uniform was due for a cleaning anyway. During the remaining testimonies, Mary looked at a very young baby for the first time, the miniature hand and wrist, the baby hair, the wee mouth and wobbly head. How helpless and frail! What a miracle that he would someday be a man. The baby clung tightly to her little finger until his mother came to get him at the meeting's close. In the foyer, it was almost like a receiving line, all the people wanting to meet Gram's granddaughter. Then Mary and Gram were back in Gram's room, with POSTMARK: LONDON only fifteen minutes before the taxi would come. "How's your shoulder, Gram?" Mary asked, and Gram said quickly, "Not worth discussing when there's something better to talk about. Before you leave, tell me, is that young man of yours home from his mission yet?" "Yes, Gram—but who told you about Jim?" "Your mother felt pretty bad when you turned him down. He went to England, didn't he?" "Yes, Gram, and he baptized more than one hundred people while he was there." "You're pretty proud of him, Mary?" "Yes, I guess I am." "You're twenty-three now?" "Yes, Gram." "I was twenty-three when your father was born...." "Gram, let me ask you a question, as the testimonies were being borne, did you pray for me?" "T always pray for you, Mary, and for all Eric's and my family. And I always pray that I can be of some use to someone as long as I live." Too quickly, the taxi was waiting. At the door Gram said, "It's a wonderful day we live in, Mary. Tomorrow at this time you'll be in London. [ll look for your card. I don't have one from London yet." Mary stooped to kiss Gram's cheek. ''Yes, Gram, it is a wonderful day we live in. If letters are too slow, there's direct longdistance dialing! Take good care of the London card. It may be the last one with a foreign postmark you'll get from me." 499 For he €stablisheg €stimony -. And 4PPointeg law in Israel] Which commanded Our father » that they Should e€ the known to their Children That the &€neration © might know even the Children Which Should € born; wh Should arise and declare th to the Children (Psalms 78:5-6). Those w O were Privileged + €arly days of forth from th and to People o Fough all the Ould not p Conquest of th rejoiced an Pastures I - + Clothed wit Corn," O Sratitude for COvered Over with INdustrioys and in dependent in their were early Schooled and directeg in ], th Pioneers gro responsibility The word y A r 

 v4 c ® Belles. Spafford, President ka. E Marianne C: Sharp, First Counselor a ® Louise W. Madsen, © Hulda P. Young, Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer of individual Concern for all the 4 believin that Winnietreq Ss.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_07_08_GenFt_Notes_Order.txt) ===
social science and literature lessons. Beginning with October 1965, the social science "Teaching the Gospel in the Home" lessons will be taught on the third meeting day of the month instead of the fourth in order that eight lessons may be presented in these correlation lessons. The literature lessons, formerly taught on the third meeting day of the month, will move to the fourth meeting day. Two social science lessons "Teaching the Gospel in the Home" (the lessons for October and November 1965) will be printed in the August issue. The work meeting lessons for October, November, and December will be a continuation of the course "'Molding a Happy Life," by Winnifred C. Jardine. Erratum In the Honor Roll for Nampa Stake (published in the May 1965 issue of the Magazine, page 381), the correct figures should be 1,000 subscriptions, and 980 members, resulting in 102 per cent, which places Nampa Stake among the ten stakes with the highest number of subscriptions. Dear Lord Mae L. Curtis Kindly give to me each day, A prayer to guide me on my way. A blessing, give me strength to live, And learn to love and to forgive. Help me pure and sinless be, To greet each day with faith in thee. Ppa Cried Out, "wh "We're goin Her comp! Want to Cre are you 80ing? You Said 8 to Church, of Nion Streak oyfu ed for Camping knows UPply of film If one Plans to b of Planning ahead 1 NSect-repelient fishhooks, a fe) * 4 list o the loading Of the Car, comes the ave the latest iSsue of e Di S Of the Ch h, including all stake pr i d their locations One's ishop wi rate in Siving formation n:, arrange i Schedule to cam a S Near as POSsible arge one! Some Of our h en we attendeq 4Ppiest very smal branches. At one 


 spot, the branch president had to send for more sacrament cups, because our family, plus two other visiting families, brought the attendance up to 200 per cent. The spirit there was wonderful, and we all saw that the teaching and the procedures were the same familiar ones we knew in our home ward. The next step, after planning where to stop over, from Saturday afternoon to Monday morning, is to find out the types of campgrounds available near the ward or branch. Perhaps your budget allows for a motel now and then. If so, this simplifies planning and probably puts you nearer the local chapel or hall where the ward or branch meets. The directory information your bishop gave you has given you names to contact Saturday afternoon, when you arrive in the town where you plan to attend church on Sunday. A phone call to the local bishop or branch president will not only tell you time schedules, but will also introduce you to a fine member of the Church who will undoubtedly be looking for your family and be ready to greet them and show them which classes to attend. Saturday is also the time to buy ahead all you will need to prepare Sunday's meals and Monday's breakfast. If you have camped before, you know this can be done. You'll have your favorite recipes, perhaps cottage-fried potatoes, no-bake cookies, and so forth. You'll know certain items can be stored, others must be used up. Applesauce cake, for instance, in a tight container, is still nice and moist for Sunday's dessert treat. On Saturdays, we also like to have some Church magazines or books to read on Sundays. Mother and daughters may have to wait in the car while the boys and their father attend Priesthood meeting, and the time goes rapidly if something special has been saved and is a surprise for this time. Clothing may also be planned by mother. She knows which dresses and trousers are least likely to look crumpled. Of course, all Sunday clothing will be on hangers by Saturday night and look surprisingly well pressed after hanging overnight. Shoes (stored in plastic bags) can be slipped on the last thing. A time well loved and remembered is the gathering in the motel, the tent, or trailer house for family prayer.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_07_16_The Home_Something_Canham.txt) ===
Mary has brought the ability to snatch bits of happiness from life as it passes by, to a fine art. Even trying days do not baffle her. Yesterday she started to do the weekly washing. Something went wrong with the washing machine. She could not get a repair man until the middle of the afternoon. But did she burst into tears or lose her temper? Instead, she stirred up a batch of muffins and called a newly made friend with a large family who lives down the street and told her she was coming to help with a basket of mending she had seen when she and her Relief Society visiting teacher companion had called a few days before. When I came home last night, she did not moan to me about the broken machine or the disruption of the household schedule she likes to keep. She gave me an interesting account of the visit she had had with this overworked neighbor and of plans they had made for future working together." It is worth time and thought to discover sources of happiness within our reach and the possibilities we have of availing ourselves of them. We may not be able to travel to different parts of the world, nor to attend fine operas and stimulating lectures, nor wear costly clothes, nor live in elegant homes; but we can thrill over the constant, ever-changing grandeurs in nature; we can read good books; we can make family relationships joyous and precious, and be gladdened by the opportunities and blessings of friendships. And, above all. We can find enduring joy in keeping close to our Father in heaven. 514 he Meaihdor 7 Eze Betty G. Spencer @ The well-worn, deep metal pie plate didn't look like anything valuable as it lay neglected in a kitchen drawer. An outsider would have quickly discarded it as something of little value, but to our family, gathered to prepare the house for new occupants, it represented a cherished characteristic of a friendly, vivacious grandmother. The pie plate was what we called Grandmother's Neighbor Plate, and it was one of her most often used kitchen utensils. Grandmother always seemed to make a little extra whenever she prepared a special treat for her family. Somehow, the extra was placed in the pie plate and carried to an appreciative friend or neighbor. When sickness, trouble, or death visited a neighborhood home, the pie plate inevitably was carried to the kitchen door, and the sorrowing family members were cheered by the delectable contents. Grandmother, an excellent cook, was locally famous for her flaky pie crusts, mouth-watering fruitcakes, and feathery light hot rolls. The Neighbor Plate helped Grandmother get acquainted with a newcomer, too. Moving day was sure to find her running over with a "little something" to help out with the first meal in the new home. We soon noticed that the Neighbor Plate was an important link in the close, warm friendships that grew along her street. Frequently, the plate was returned heaped with apples, berries, pieces of newly baked cake, or other special treats from a grateful heart. Gratitude delighted Grandmother, but those few neighbors who felt duty-bound to return the favor were a genuine disappointment. Grandmother felt that her offering should be savored, enjoyed—even appreciated—but not necessarily paid back. Grandmother is gone, now, but the philosophical values she implanted in our hearts are with us still. Her daughters have remained in the same friendly mountain valley where they grew to womanhood, but the grandchildren have settled across the country from Florida

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_07_21_SpFt_Dont_Sabin.txt) ===
Away from the city lights, we have re-discovered what a show the night sky has to offer. Once more we enjoy the brilliance of stars and moon and the lightning when there is a storm. Night skies in the city are pale above the street lights and flashing neon signs. The only lights we see here at night, aside from those in the heavens, are the distant mellow lights from our neighbors' homes that reach out across our meadow like a warm handclasp. Farm folks are friendly. Our neighbors run in with a little jar of chokecherry jelly or a picking of beans. They help us harvest our hay and grain, and doctor a calf when trouble comes. The ranch women in our neighborhood milk cows, run the hay baler, and drive tractor. They can 519 Synopsis: @ When Joan finished her reports it was nearly ten. She let herself into her room with a weariness She hadn't felt for a long time. It's a good feeling, she thought, to be weary with the doing of important things, The light was. Out and Joan was glad she didn't have to be alone. She had always disliked going into a darkened room at the end of 4 day, alone. She wanted to sit on the edge of Kathy's bed and talk the way she had with her mother when she Joan Morgan has left her l involvement and grief over the death of a young patient. She Shirley Thulin CHAPTER 3 Position at Elmdale Hospital because was young, but she knew she couldn't, so she undressed without turning on 4 light. The brightness from the street lamp just outside her window was enough. Joan could tell Kathy was in her bed, but she wondered if she were asleep yet. "Kathy. Ad Joan called softly. "What?" Kathy sounded very sleepy. "T..." and Joan didn't know what to say. She had wanted to tell her to notify her mother that 


 she wouldn't be coming home every week end. She wanted to tell her it was not good for the well-being of a hospital to break regulations she wanted to talk about Tom, and to explain what she was trying to accomplish with him but the night held a sweetness that she could not bring herself to disturb with unpleasant conversation. So she only said, "Goodnight, Kathy." "Joan do you think Dean Dr. Desmond will ever marry?" "That's hard to tell."' Joan wasn't prepared for this line of questioning. "He makes me so mad." Kathy was sitting up, now, and Joan knew she had been lying there, thinking of the Doctor, and hoping, and planning, as only the young dare to hope and plan even when there seems to be no use. "I think he will marry," Joan said. "He may take a good long time to pick and choose, but he will marry." "He says he won't.. Cially a nurse." "He will, most likely,' Joan told her. '"Besides, he never goes anyplace to meet anyone else." "Do you think if I would go away someplace and then come back, he'd?" "Kathy, you don't want to go - anywhere besides,"' Joan was teasing now... "he might marry someone else while you were gone." "Do you like him, Joan?" "Yes, he's very intriguing." "Do you like him a lot, I mean?" Joan was about to tell Kathy she didn't like him any more than. Espe- 522 anyone else, but she knew that wasn't the truth. She swallowed to make her voice behave, then said, "'Oh, I could, I suppose...." "He likes you. He likes you a lot." Joan felt like being very brisk with Kathy. She felt her armor melting away and wanted to do something about it. What was there about this girl, that made her so mellow, in spite of her promises to herself to keep her reserve? ''Kathy, I have come to this hospital to."

"To get away from something 1 can tell. The others think you are just naturally that it's just your nature to... I mean but I can tell you've been hurt." "Please, Kathy, I don't want to talk about it That is, there's really nothing to talk about. I just want, more than anything, to be a good administrator, and to take good care of my patients." "Joan, are you going to make me stop going home' on week ends?" "Kathy, I think...." "As long as the others don't care, why should it bother you?" "It's just a matter of principle, that's all." "But Uncle Jay doesn't mind." "He " "And I was thinking that maybe you could come home with me sometime. You'd love Mom and Dad. They are always after me to bring some of the nurses home. It would do you good." "Let's get to sleep. It's late." "But you will come, won't you? This Friday?" Joan was about to reject the invitation when a new approach RING AROUND Hep HEART to her Problem with Kathy came to her, [f I do 80, she thought, T she knew he had felt nothing of the things she was much bette, discipline among the rying to make him fee] nurses. 2 °M, do yoy know What?" Joan answered Kathy, She said Joan Pulled Open the s ades, and she would £0 with her and all the began to tidy the Several va es While she was accepting, she knew f flower on his dresser "I know the rea] Teason. She wanted to be 2 fellow " Part of a family, €ven if only for "Tl just bet yoy do." Tom one week end.. Didn't €, and his Volce was In the morning Joan heard flat. «7 t this fellow jg Para. Kathy let herself Out the door lyzed fro his waist down and She turne Over and smiled to he drives S Own car, nd dances erself. S knew K hy was On and he's the father of Seven chi] er way to have breakfast with Doctor Des nd, and Somehow "Only three," it pleased her She Teadied her. = Joan fel} flushed Only three? That funny While The fellows everyone else knows there was a happy little Ingle in- 4 Ways have at least Seven, and Side her. She hadn't felt this Way they Own their own USInesseg for a long hile. ] wonder what and they re q happy as larks," I'm go happy for, she thought € turned Over then, with a look ut she really knew It was that frighten d Joan, and then €Cause she felt that, at last, she angered her. D found the place Where she really belonged. You going to stop Playing games? Joan had always kept alert to I the hospital] life. Had never let it become dull o k yo know al] the » but you don't. There Y ording are even some questions of Which It's like 4 World in itself, She yoy haven't thought." hought, as she alked along the "Like What?" Corridors The s und of the carts "Like, who takes Care of yoy eing push d along, the Sight of While yo sulk, and enjoy being Whiteclad urses al] hurrying, pitied? J Mean, after you leave their Starcheq Caps perched ato €an all the rest Neatly arranged haj [ of your life? You think you can tiled hal] floors Spend the rest of your life right all this brought a tinge of excitehere in thi hospital bed, She]- Ment to Joan. Tered behj d closed Shades. What 00m 212 was darkened again appens when the doctors tell] OM was turned to the w I you that yoy £0 home? What The Song in her heart Stopped, 4ppens then and the Nn its place a tightness SWelled 


 "And make you think? That's all I'm trying to do, Tom. Make you think of the things that are coming the things you could be doing." "I can't do anything. Not one single thing,"' he shouted, and the veins along his forearms stood out with the firm pressure of his clenched fists. "Yes, you can. You can learn to do a lot of things with your strong arms and hands. You can do so much for your mother and the kids... You could even be an example to those little brothers and sisters of yours." Tom was crying now, so Joan left. She walked out of his room, leaving the door open, and hoping that she had also opened the door to his thinking. She knew his tears were good therapy. Joan hurried to the chart room. She wanted to find Doctor Desmond to talk to him about Tom. She wanted to get to him first, in order to avoid another misunderstanding about the possible effect she was having on the boy. I think I can make him understand, she thought, if I can talk to him about it. The chart work was always so interesting to Joan, that she didn't notice at first when Doctor Desmond came into the room. She glanced up, and the look on his face told her that he had already been to see Tom. "Hello. You've just come from seeing Tom?" "Yes. I wish you could see what you're doing to that boy." "I wish I could make you see what I'm trying to do for him." "Miss Morgan I know that the therapy you are attempting 524 has been known to work wonders in lots of cases, but with Tom it's different. He... He is of a different nature. He is." "I'm sorry to differ with you. The nature of the patient rarely has much to do with this type. " "The nature of the patient has everything to do with it." Doctor Desmond's voice had raised to a pitch which bordered on the angry side, and Joan was close to tears. They were both relieved when Miss Jackson opened the door. She walked to the cabinet without a word, and the silence in the room was like a recently closed tomb, full of recently stilled voices. Joan wrote on her chart, and Miss Jackson pushed papers into their places, and Doctor Desmond just stood there. It was Miss Jackson who broke the silence. "Doctor Desmond, are you through with your rounds?" "Almost." "How's Tom today? "Same." Joan knew Miss Jackson had asked the leading question knowingly, and it annoyed her, but his answer pleased her. He hadn't taken the opening to humiliate her, which gave her a strange feeling of pleasure. "Are you going to lunch?" Miss Jackson asked, knowing the subject should be changed. "In awhile. I have things...." Miss Jackson left then, and she no sooner was gone than Doctor Desmond began almost where he had left off. ''Miss Morgan, Tom has to be handled gently. You see, he is a boy who takes 99 some life very seriously. Therefore, he doesn't need to be sobered with startling statements. He already realizes the seriousness of his predicament, therefore you needn't point it out to him." "He needs to put up a fight...." "He has fought for all these weeks. He nearly lost his life, you know." "But, he has been fighting against himself. Now he needs to get angry enough to want to get out of here and go home and "We had him almost ready to want to go home." "To go home, how? To retire to his bed behind darkened doors and windows? He has to want to take his place again. We have to let him know he can." "But can he? A half-a-boy oh a farm what good is that?" "It's better than no boy at all." "Anyone can tell you're a city gir "a Joan got up now and stepped toward the door. "Doctor Desmond, I was reared on a farm. My father and my uncles and my neighbors were all farmers. I've seen one-legged farmers, and farmers with one arm and." "But no boys with the use of only half his body." "Yes. One. He even learned to drive a tractor with the use of hand controls." She left the room with a strange feeling of triumph. She knew she had begun to make him understand, or at least not to object to her continuing to work with Tom. I have to succeed now, she thought. I just have to. Joan went to the elevator.