[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 549 | Home | Work Meeting for October — Molding a Happy Life — Using One's Resources to Find Happiness Winnifred | C. Jardine]
WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine Using One's Resources to Find Happiness (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) For Second Meeting, October 1965 Objective: To appraise ways a homemaker can use those things she already possesses to further the happiness of her family and herself. @ Happiness grows at our firesides, and is not to be picked in stranger's gardens," wrote Douglas Jerrold. No matter how large or small our home, nor how great or little our circumstances, the happiness of our family must, be found in what we have and what we are. We may see our neighbor driving a beautiful new car, or we may visit in the elegant home of a friend, and unless we have learned this lesson well — that happiness for us must be found within our own circumstances — a stab of jealousy may prick our souls and let happiness slowly leak away. In a college town some years ago was a group of graduate students, many of them married and with small families. All of them were living under the: most stringent of circumstances, doing janitorial work for their housing, teaching part time for small salaries, making over clothing for family wear, using every spare minute for studying, and spending an occasional day or evening doing the simplest things for recreation and entertainment. These men have since become professors, research chemists, vice-presidents and directors of companies, and yet all speak lovingly of those days when material things were so scarce. All agree that they were among the happiest days of their lives. Probably, these happy times were possible because of ingenious minds and _ creative hands. No matter what our economic conditions, happiness still grows from these resourceful activities —building a fire pit in the backyard, upholstering a chair, painting the garage, framing pictures, building cupboards, dyeing rugs, refinishing furniture, hanging wallpaper, adding a greenhouse, growing roses from slips and flowers from seed and storing geraniums through the winter. Even in well-to-do homes such practices bring added happiness. Limited means do not necessarily mean limited enjoyment of cultural and beautiful things. Libraries not only provide the wealth of books, but many of 


 them now make available fine recordings and lovely art prints to check out and enjoy at home. Television and radio offer programs of symphony and opera, ballet and drama. Large cities are forging ahead in organizing their own choirs and symphonic groups, little theaters and art societies, and welcome volunteer workers.. Free summer concerts are frequently available to those who will avail themselves of the opportunity to hear them. Study groups of good literature are in action everywhere. Night classes in a myriad of subjects are offered by high schools and colleges. Opportunities and advantages for our children and ourselves can be worked out on an exchange-of-talents basis. You give my son piano lessons, and I will give your daughter cooking lessons; art in exchange for sewing lessons, speech in exchange for dancing lessons or baby sitting. Visits to museums and galleries, zoos and parks, or visits to people with interesting hobbies bring much pleasure and stimulation. A family's ingenuity can override any limitation of resources if it has the will and the desire. And what happy times result! One of the great delights any family can enjoy is the pleasure of having guests in the home. Families might be invited in to join family night activities. Outof-town visitors staying in the home can enrich family life considerably. Non-Latter-day Saint neighbors might be in a Latterday Saint home for the first time 550 when invited to your home. Children learn to be gracious hosts and to enjoy and participate in stimulating conversation. Home conditions and meals need not be elaborate before having people in. If the family plans and serves those things within its means, using ingenuity and doing so graciously and generously, guests will feel the warmth of hospitality and rejoice in being present. One family has made a tradition of serving soup suppers, using an heirloom soup tureen and plates. The soup may be any kind the season most reasonably affords—cream of celery, potato, leek, or split pea. Served along with it are a green salad, hot rolls, and dessert. Although the meal is inexpensive, the occasions are always happy. In his autobiography Dr. John A. Widtsoe, a former member of the Council of the Twelve, writes: My financial debt, from the years of advanced study, was large; the salary small. Since neither my wife nor I would go in further debt, we used makeshifts as part of our furniture. I still remember with distinct relish the manner in which my wife, with superb, queenly indifference to the clean but primitive conditions, fed and entertained the many guests, often of great distinction. Whether. They were Americans, Europeans, or Asiatics, the lady of my house treated them with a welcoming courtesy. We dealt with things of the mind. Through Relief Society, the sisters are taught to be resourceful, to be frugal, to be creative, to be happy with what they ha
