[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 507 | Home | Easier Summer Living | Dorothy Hicks]
hot food during the day? You'll find a few recipes at the end of this article to help you take life easy this summer. Your baking can be done in the morning, or, if you prefer, slip a cake, on one of the gloomy, rainy days that come along sometimes even in the summer, and pop them into the freezer for use on hot days. Even that pile of summer cottons doesn't need to make washing such a formidable task as you might think. Don't try to do a big washing once a week, but do two or three smaller ones. Perhaps you might want to put a load of clothes into the washer before breakfast. By the time the breakfast dishes are washed, your clothes are ready to go on the line, or in the dryer. Or load your washer at bedtime and let the clothes wash while you are getting your beauty sleep. When morning comes, they're ready to hang up, if they dry in the air. Once they're washed, the clothes do have to be ironed, but this needn't be a wearisome chore either. Many of the new summer cottons are drip-dry fabrics, requiring little or no ironing.

[Easier Summer Living Dorothy Hicks]

Just take them off the line or out of 


 the dryer, and put them away. Cut your ironing down to bare essentials. Such items as dish towels, sheets, and pajamas, for example, look nice when they are ironed, but they don't absolutely need it. And as with your washing, don't try to do all your ironing at one time, but do a little bit several mornings during the week. If you have a shady porch, move your ironing board out there and use an extension cord to plug in your iron. It's much more comfortable. And speaking of comfort, don't just stand there. Sit down to iron. You won't get nearly as tired. These are just a few shortcuts that can help make summer a time of easier living for mother, as well as for her family. Once you start looking, you'll probably find many more. Just make it a point to get as many jobs as possible out of the way during the morning. In the afternoon, do something that can be done while you relax. Darning socks, letting down hems, mending, and sewing on buttons are a few suggestions. Take some time just to relax each day, too. You'll feel better, and your family will appreciate your unruffled attitude. Anyway, happy summertime! And now here are the recipes I promised you earlier. FRANKFURTER-POTATO CASSEROLE Make a sauce by combining 1 can cream of celery soup, 34 cup milk, 44 cup finely chopped onion, and 2-3 teaspoons prepared mustard. In a buttered 114- quart casserole, arrange alternate layers of 4 cups diced, cooked potatoes (a good way to use leftover ones), the sauce, and 14 pound of frankfurters split lengthwise. Cover. Refrigerate until 45 minutes before serving time. Place in cold oven and bake covered for 30 minutes at 400 degrees; uncover and bake for 15 minutes more. Makes four servings. This is good as a change from potato salad, and really involves no more work or time. CASSEROLE STEW Roll 1 pound beef cubes in 2 tablespoons flour, 14 teaspoon salt, and a dash of pepper. Brown in 2 tablespoons shortening. Stir in 1 can tomato soup, 1 cup water, and 1 minced garlic clove, if desired. Cover and cook slowly for one hour. Add 6 carrots cut in small pieces, and 8 small white onions. Cover and cook for one hour more. Cool and place in refrigerator. Remove from refrigerator 30 minutes before serving time. Add one ten-ounce package frozen peas, cover, and cook for 30 minutes. For a thicker stew, uncover for the last ten minutes of cooking time. ORANGE SALAD Combine 1 package orange gelatin and 1 cup hot water. When gelatin is dissolved, add 14 cup cold water. Allow to cool, and before it begins to set, stir in 1 pint orange sherbet, 1 banana cut in slices, 1 can mandarin oranges drained, and 10 large marshmallows cut into small pieces. Chill until serving time. This is also good as a dessert. If you prefer, the mandarin orange juice may be used in place of the cold water. MACARONI-WIENER SALAD Mix 4 ounces (14 package) drained, cooked elbow macaroni with 1 tablespoon grated onion and 14 cup thin French dressing. Stir in 1 cup finely diced celery, 1% cup sliced radishes, 2 tablespoons minced parsley (if desired), and 4 thinly sliced cooked wieners. Season with salt and pepper, cover and chill until serving time. Season 14 cup dairy sour cream with 1 teaspoon mustard and fold into salad just before serving. This salad is good served ''as is'' or it may be used to stuff large, ripe tomatoes. If you stuff the tomatoes, you may want to double the proportions on the sour cream and mustard in the last step, and use half of this mixture to top the tomatoes after stuffing. This makes a hearty main dish for any summer evening.