[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 528 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
NOTES FROM THE FIELD Box Elder Stake (Utah) Intermountain Indian School Branch Relief Society Left to right: Alice B. James, advisor: Lahoma Mexican: Theresa Reed: Loretta Grey: Lorraine Paddock; Betty Lou Yazzie: Helena Begay;: Maggie Chee; Anita Begay; Evelyn Hudson: Eleanore Jones: Sadie McKinley; Mar. Garet Crank; Hattie Yazzie; Ilene Rock, Secretary-Treasurer; Essie Mariano, Second Counselor; Celia Blackgoat, First Counselor: Lillian Chavez, President. Bernice H. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Relief Society, reports: 'The Intermountain Indian School Branch in Brigham City, Utah, organized its first Relief Society January 17, 1965, under the direction of the Box Elder Stake Presidency, and by the Branch President Howard F. Marshall, Jr. With the help and approval of 

 Lola Anderson, and the board of Box Elder Stake Relief Society, appropriate lessons have been selected and are being presented by the Indian students in a fine manner. "Alice James has been appointed Relief Society advisor to this group of Indian students, and she is very enthusiastic and sincere in helping in this new Relief Society organization. The first Relief Society project was to make bread for sacrament for the Sunday meetings of the Intermountain Branch. They are now planning to prepare and serve a banquet for the Aaronic Priesthood members of the branch. At present a group of Singing Sisters in this Relief Society have been practicing musical numbers to sing in the branch sacrament meetings. The Relief Society is becoming a great influence for good in the lives of these girls and is helping them to become more active Latterday Saints." 


 North Sanpete Stake (Utah) Relief Society Presidents Honored at Pageant March 18, 1965 Left to right: Pearle M. Olsen (also former member, General Board of Relief Society); Ruby S. Jensen; Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society; Pearle U. Winkler; Louise B. Johansen. All but Sister Madsen have served as presidents. Sister Johansen, present President, reports: ""A pageant 'Memories of North Sanpete Stake Relief Society,' reviewing the history of the stake, and commemorating its sixty-fifth anniversary. Was presented. A reception line of past and present stake Relief Society presidents and stake presidents greeted 325 guests, as they viewed a large history of the stake. "A large, three-tiered cake, with a Relief Society emblem made of frosting, and a sugar memory book, adorned the refreshment table, where cake and ice cream were served. Beautiful colored slides were shown as a reader related the organization of the first Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and also represented President Brigham Young leading the pioneers to the promised valley, and the settlement of Sanpete. "Originally, the stake comprised all of Sanpete County, and in 1900, it was divided into North and South Sanpete Stakes. "Stake board members and ward presidents were given special recognition. The highlights of the program were the view of a picture of General President of Relief Society Belle S. Spafford, and to have Counselor Louise W. Madsen present to represent the General Board of Relief Society and to give an inspiring message." Central American Mission Relief Society Conference Guatemala, February 25, 1965 Left to right: Carmen G. O'Donnal, Assistant Supervisor, Mission Relief Society; Angelina Perez de Sac, Second Counselor, native of Quezaltenango; Glenna A. Hansen, Supervisor, Central American Mission Relief Society; Aleine M. Young, member, General Board of Relief Society; Marina G. De Oliva, President, Central American Mission Relief Society. Sister Hansen reports: "Despite the fact that twenty-four hours before the conference, the Guatemalan government, because of a minor political uprising, had declared the country 'in a state of siege,' and canceled any meetings which involved more than four people, the Third Annual Conference of Relief Society was held as planned. Upon hearing of the restrictive decree, President Terrence L. Hansen of the Central American Mission, requested and received special permission from the Minister of National Defense to hold the scheduled meetings. "Under the direction of Sister Hansen, the conference was planned with the theme 'Service Through the Relief Society." During the conference all of the demonstrations were given to help the sisters better to learn their callings toward better leadership through better planning. The demonstrations were given under the direction of native sisters from Guatemala. By authority of Elder Marion G. Romney, Sister Young of the General Board came to observe, instruct, and inspire the sisters. "All districts in Guatemala were represented, and six sisters from the neighboring country of El] Salvador attended. Eighty-four sisters were present at the morning leadership session. In the afternoon 145 sisters and thirty special guests were present. President Hansen, and other representatives of the Priesthood also attended the conference." 530 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 'he ~ SPF} = dae aes, fs +. V4 ) >, ww fo i. Ww 


 CENTRAL BRITISH MISSION Worcester District International Bazaar, December 5, 1964 Second row, left to right: Eileen Dunyon, Supervisor, Central British Mission: and (slightly to the front) Edna Byrne, President, Worcester District Relief Society (wearing hairband). Sister Dunyon reports: "The Worcester District Bazaar had a rousing start in the afternoon, when the sisters broke forth in singing 'Joy to the World,' which startled everyone, and then there was silence as the opening ceremonies were performed. All branches were represented: Hereford, Kidderminster, Redditch, Stourbridge, and Worcester, making the bazaar a great success. The sisters were wearing international costumes, and this brought the countries of Holland, Japan, England, Scotland, and Wales nearer to mind. Each table was dressed according to the countries represented, with homebaked bread and crafts in view. The bazaar was bright with color, and the handicrafts were judged by a local dental surgeon, Mrs. Phillips-Broadhurst. Both Sister Dunyon and Mrs. Phillips-Broadhurst were presented with a souffle dish by the two youngest members of the district Relief Society." Kidderminster Branch Quilt Wins Prize at Worcester District Bazaar Left to right: Edna Allen; Doreen Thomas; Sally and Patricia Jones; Hazel Stevens; Ercell Fullmer, President, Kidderminster Branch Relief Society; Sylvia Layton and baby daughter; Gail Layton; Martha Bradley, (next to the quilt); Doreen Ellis and Caroline Ellis. Sister Dunyon, in commending the sisters of the Kidderminster Branch for their beautiful "stitchery" on the quilt, reports on the making of the quilt and the prize it won at the Worcester District Bazaar: "I feel that this is quite an achievement since we introduced quilting just a year ago and the women at that time had not quilted before. This branch was a dependent group until last summer. Kidderminster Branch with their wonderful quilt, won the prize, which was a cotton-reel and needleholder." Orange County Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Last Stake Conference, March 14, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Kathern Marks, Education Counselor; Mary Grasteit, President; Lillie Garrett, Work Counselor; Fanny S. Kienitz, member, General Board of Relief Society; Wanda Willett, Secretary-Treasurer. Second row, at the right: Jane Gudmundsen, organist, and Marybeth Done, chorister. Sister Grasteit reports: "The Orange County Stake Singing Mothers made their final appearance when they sang for the afternoon session of stake conference, March 14, 1965. They were in top voice and sang beautifully a special arrangement of 'O My Father' and 'Come, Ye Blessed.' "This was an eventful day—one filled with both excitement and sadness, as our beloved Orange County Stake was divided, and the name was dropped entirely. We now have two new stakes—Anaheim Stake and Fullerton Stake. Lillie Garrett was sustained as president of Fullerton Stake Relief Society, and Glenna Woolf (not in the picture) was sustained as Relief Society president in Anaheim Stake." 532 sen ee —_ 2, 9A ve: pe eM ts-- ' PO S52 ge pee €: Breer Santa Ana Stake (California) Presents Relief Society Anniversary Program March 17, 18, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Carolyn Asplund, representing Bathsheba Smith; Patricia Christiansen, author of the script and director, representing Clarissa Williams; Roslyn Taylor, as Emma Hale Smith; Lisa Taylor, as a Smith child. Back row, standing, left to right: Alna Phillips, as Belle S. Spafford; Leda Law, narrator; Nancy Ashcroft, as Emmeline B. Wells; LaPreal Anderson, as Amy Brown Lyman; Karen Lane, as Zina D. H. Young; Julie Sage, as Eliza R. Snow; Mildred Krumperman, as Louise Y. Robison; J. Frank Coltrin, representing the Prophet Joseph Smith. Marjorie S. Patterson, President, Santa Ana Stake Relief Society, reports: "Performed as a 'theater-in-the-round,' over 250 women in the Costa Mesa, Newport Beach, Santa Ana, and Santa Ana Second Wards viewed two performances of the play 'God Is Ever Beside Me,' to commemorate the 123rd birthday of the founding of Relief Society. Originated by Costa Mesa and Newport Beach Wards, the program utilized the dramatic and musical talents of thirty-two people. A Singing Mothers chorus, directed by Mildred Gunkler, offered two musical selections: 'God Is Ever Beside Me' and 'A New Day Dawned.' Soloists were Christine Stolins (auto-harp); Marilyn Johnson (violinist); Marjory Chapman (organist); Arlene Root (pianist). "The furnishings and many of the costumes, authentic to the period they depicted, were supplied by Lucille Lundwall, Costa Mesa Ward Relief Society President; and by Sister Patterson. A brunch was served by the food committee, headed by Velva McCaughan. A note of enthusiasm and joy prevailed throughout the program, as all gave their best in time and talents." 534 THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants ti Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 65—God's Power in the World (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:1-14) For First Meeting, October 1965 Objective: To appreciate God's attributes of mercy and justice in the functioning of the "light of Christ' and the Holy Ghost. INTRODUCTION Leaf" by the Prophet. He exAfter the Prophet Joseph Smith Plains that it is "the Lord's meshad visited Jackson County, Mis- = £ peace to us." Here are the souri, in the spring of 1832, a + Tophet's words: number of problems arose among I send you the "olive leaf" which we the saints in that area. In the have plucked from the Tree of Parlesson on the "one mighty and strong" (Lesson 63, Relief Society indulge in feelings toward us, which Magazine, July 1964), we learned are not according to the requirements of a problem in connection with of the new covenant, yet, we have the Edward Partridge, the Bishop in satisfaction of knowing that the Lord.: approves of us, and has accepted us, Zion. Because of the failure of the and established His navve in "Fails authorities and saints in Missouri for the salvation of the nations; for to carry out the plans for their the Lord will have a place whence His temporal welfare under the law of word will go forth, in these last days, ' e Prophet became in purity; for if Zion will not purify consecration, the Pr P herself, so as to be approved of in all Concerned. On January 14, 1833, things, in His sight, He will seek anhe wrote a letter to W. W. P helps, other people; for His work will go on editor of the F vening and Mornuntil Israel is gathered, and they who ing Star, in which he enclosed the will not hear His voice, must expect; to feel His wrath. Let me say unto revelation dated December 27, a ccik to romp yoRNtigeet al 1832, known as Section 88 in the also all the inhabitants of Zion, lest Doctrine and Covenants, This the Lord's anger be kindled to fiercerevelation is named the "Olive ness (DHC 1:316).