[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 551 | Lesson | Literature for October — Good Versus Evil — Part I Bruce | B. Clark]
[Literature for October — Good Versus Evil — Part I Bruce B. Clark]

SOCIAL SCIENCE Teaching the Gospel in the Home

The Social Science lessons for October and November 1965 will be printed in the August issue of the Magazine.

LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values
As Seen Through Literature

Elder Bruce B. Clark

Lesson 9—Good Versus Evil—Part I

(Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 281-328)

For Fourth Meeting, October 1965

Objective: To show literature's concern with man's struggle to triumph over evil and accomplish good.

■ Because this is the first lesson of the new year, it seems desirable to review briefly how to interpret and evaluate literature. A year ago we outlined four basic approaches: the Platonic, which emphasizes meaning and the moral values of literature; the Aristotelian, which emphasizes language, form, and internal artistic value; the work itself as a work of art; the Horatian, which emphasizes a test-of-time approach, comparing a work with standards of the classics of the past; and the Longinian, which emphasizes the unique creative genius and personality of the author plus the aesthetic effects of these on the reader. We suggested that the combination of these approaches is better than the exclusive use of one, but agreed that as Latter-day Saints we will probably tend to emphasize the Platonic approach, regarding highly those works that strengthen character and give insight into truth. We should remember that as class leaders and readers we should draw upon our own experiences to interpret and evaluate literature, because a work increases in meaning and value as we enliven it with our

551

JULY 1965

own backgrounds. Approaching literature in this manner, not afraid of it but eager to explore it, will help us discover in it not only beauty and delight but also wisdom and truth.

The lesson for this month covers four selections—two very short poems, a fairly long poem, and a short story. All are concerned with the complex relationships between good and evil in human experience, and, especially, with man's efforts to overcome evil and promote good. As indicated in the introductory comments on page 283 of the text, probably literature has explored no other subject so much as the relationship between good and evil in the universe, with the related problem of sin and redemption from sin, and this is especially true of the great works of literature. Indeed, the most challenging questions that have faced thinking men through the ages in religion and philosophy, as well as in literature, have often had their roots in the nature of good and evil in relation to each other and in relation to God and man. As members of the Church, we are fortunate in having special insight into these problems through the inspired writings of our modern prophets; in addition we can profit from what wise men of literature have had to say.

The Tiger. To plunge us dramatically into the whole subject of the problem of evil in the universe, we start with the little poem by William Blake (English poet, 1757-1827) called "The Tiger," which is printed, with fuller notes than given here, on page 285 of the text. And in connection with our reading of "The Tiger" we probably should review Blake's companion poem," "The Lamb," printed on page 91 of the text. The contrast between the two poems is vivid and strong. "The Lamb" is a tender, lovely poem, fragile in artistry and reverent in tone. "The Tiger" is fierce and grim, but the contrast goes far beyond just a difference in language and tone. The reader easily sees that the lamb is a symbol of all that is beautiful and good in the world, whereas the tiger is a symbol of all that is destructive and evil. The key line in "The Tiger," linking the two poems together and thrusting to the heart of the problem they explore, occurs in the fifth stanza: "Did He who made the Lamb make thee?" Blake is asking, did God, the Creator of all that is good in the world, also create evil? What is the source of evil in the universe? Blake does not answer the question—at least not in this poem. He simply asks it, leaving the reader to ponder. As Latter-day Saints we know that God does not cause evil. The Lord's plan for the salvation of his children, however, provides for the presence of evil in the world and the means of meeting and overcoming it.

Dark in the Forest, Strange As Time. Exploring further into the complex problem is Thomas Wolfe's luxuriantly written short story "Dark in the Forest, Strange As Time," printed, with a full discussion, on pp. 287-301 of the text. The story is complex in both the rich artistry of its prose style and the multiplicity of its meanings, as discussed in the text more fully

552

LESSON DEPARTMENT

than space allows here. But the subject that concerns us most in our study of the story is its dramatization of good versus evil in our human environment. Through the story Wolfe (American novelist and short-story writer, 1900-1938) suggests that in every human being there are capacities for good and for evil. In fact, human nature is characterized by contrast, by paradox. In every earthly personality, and in mortal life as a whole, there are beautiful tendencies and ugly tendencies, tender qualities and harsh qualities, holy aspirations and animal desires. The difference between the good person and the bad person is not that one has only noble desires and the other only evil desires, but that the one, through will-power, cultivates his noble desires and subdues his evil desires, and the other through lack of will-power, wastes his noble potentialities and submits to his animal desires. Surrounding us at all times are opportunities to do good and opportunities to do evil. Triumph in life is a process of selecting the good opportunities and recognizing the evil ones—and this is a matter of inner decision. One has reached a high level of maturity if he can win the battle to control the evil tendencies within himself.

Few writers have described more eloquently the good-evil dualism of man's nature than has Thomas Wolfe in this work. Note, for example, several sentences from just beyond the middle of the story (text, page 293), where he speaks of the tragic and insoluble problems caused by the admixture of opposite forces striving for ascendency.

Wolfe continues with a vividly expressed description of the continual conflict between man's highest yearnings and the encroachment of his base desires. The "soaring spirit" is compared to "grand music," and the conflict of evil is "sorrowfully and unalterably woven . . . with blind brute hunger."

Much of the excellence of the story comes from the fact that this sense of contrast is felt in every aspect of the work—the beautiful love of the husband and wife contrasted with the wife's ugly clandestine affair with the young man, youth contrasted with age, health contrasted with sickness, the spirituality of the man contrasted with the fleshliness of the woman, ornate language contrasted with homely language, etc. Many other works have been written on the complex relationship between evil and good in the universe—and in the human heart—but few have explored the subject as memorably as Wolfe does in this story.

Shakespeare's Sonnet #94. One of the strongest brief statements reminding us of our responsibility as leaders to live righteously and avoid evil is Shakespeare's Sonnet #94.

SONNET #94
William Shakespeare

They that have power to hurt and will do none,
That do not do the thing they most do show,
Who, moving others, are themselves as stone,
Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow;
They rightly do inherit heaven's graces,
And husband nature's riches from expense;

553

JULY 1965

They are the lords and owners of their faces,
Others but stewards of their excellence.
The summer's flower is to the summer sweet,
Though to itself it only live and die,
But if that flower with base infection meet,
The basest weed outbraves his dignity:
For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.

First, Shakespeare describes that kind of man who, by force of personality and strength of convictions, stands high above ordinary people—a tower of strength influencing others but himself not swayed by the petty whims and fancies In his might he has power to hurt others but will not. He soars above the common weaknesses and is as stone to the temptations that destroy lesser men. Such a man rightly is to be looked on as having heavenly powers and displaying humanity's best qualities. Such a man is also rightly to be honored and followed.

But what if this great leader fails? No one, not even the mightiest, is absolutely beyond temptation. Little people are capable of accomplishing a little good or committing a little evil. Strong people are capable of accomplishing a great good or committing a terrible evil. And the fall of a strong man is awful to behold. If a little person deceives or embezzles or is immoral, this is bad enough; but if a great leader deceives or embezzles or is immoral, calamity engulfs the whole community.

For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.

This is the essence of tragedy—a basically good and great man crumbling to ruin, with his world crumbling around him, in consequence of some flaw in his own character to which he succumbs.

The Rime of the Ancient Mariner. Probably the greatest of the four selections covered in this lesson is "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner," by Samuel Taylor Coleridge (English poet and critic, 1772-1834). The poem is printed in full with lengthy comments not only on the poem itself but also on Coleridge's life and other works on pp. 304-328 of the text.

"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" is Coleridge's masterpiece, and one of the major poems of world literature. Like many great works, it can be read in different ways and admired by different levels of readers. It can be read as an exciting adventure story about an old sailor and his sort of hoodooed voyage from his home in Europe southward through the Pacific Ocean, and finally back to his home, with a variety of startling and suspense-filled incidents along the way. Or it can be read more nearly as an aesthetic experience, with the reader responding to the rich and varied artistry of the work. Or it can be read as a vision of good and evil, the two forces locked in endless conflict, with special attention to the inescapable consequences of an immoral act. And these are only three ways of reading the poem.

Considered as a work of art, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" is unquestionably one of the great and finished poems of the world. (For a discussion of its artistry the reader is referred to pp.

554
322-323 of the text.) Our primary concern in this lesson, however, is with meaning rather than aesthetics—that is, with the insight the poem gives into the relationship between good and evil in the universe: not a melodramatic presentation of evil as a thing so obvious as to be immediately recognized and shunned, but (in the words of Ernest Bernbaum): a veiled yet dreadful power, half-repellent, half-fascinating, seizing upon us when least expected, and visiting consequences upon us that are unforeseen. It is a vision of Evil perfectly true to life. But a vision of Evil —not an analysis of it, nor a sermon upon it. To read and fully appreciate a poem such as this, to recognize fully its power and greatness and truth, we need to approach it as Coleridge recommended we should approach any high-quality work of imaginative literature, with that "willing suspension of disbelief which constitutes poetic faith," letting the poem speak for itself, and letting ourselves be caught up in its magic and wonder. Pages 324 to 328 of the text give detailed comments on the seven parts of the poem, telling how a ship sails on a long, mysterious voyage into unfamiliar waters, there to be beaten by storm-blasts and driven into a bitter-cold area where "'ice, mast-high, came floating by, as green as emerald."' Lost in this desolate region, the sailors take heart when an albatross, omen of a safe voyage, joins their ship. And sure enough, there follow nine joyous days of clear sailing in calm water. Then, abruptly, without apparent reason, the Mariner kills the albatross—committing sin wantonly, irresponsibly, thoughtlessly, with total lack of regard for the value of life. At first the other sailors accuse the Mariner of having "done a hellish thing" in killing the blessed albatross; but when a good wind continues for several days and all seems well they compliment him for destroying "the bird that brought the fog and mist." Thus, by approving of the crime, they become accomplices to the crime. They, too, are now guilty, and so they must pay the penalty for sin; but they are not as guilty as the Mariner, and so their penalty will not be as heavy. For a brief time the fair breeze continues. Then it stops, and day after day they sit in a hot, motionless sea, "as idle as a painted ship upon a painted ocean." Salt water is all around, but there is none to drink, and "slimy things did crawl with legs upon the slimy sea." Driven mad by the agonizing thirst, with parched throats, the sailors curse the Mariner for their misery. Finally there appears a small ship on the horizon. At first the Mariner hails it as a ship of mercy, but then is haunted by its skeleton-like appearance and its ghastly crew of two—Death and Life-in-Death, who are casting dice to see which wins the Mariner. When Life-in-Death, the most grisly of the two, wins, the other sailors one by one curse the Mariner with their eyes and die. As he full well knows, the Mariner's fate is worse than death. In utter desolation, with the dead men lying all around him, he tries to pray, but cannot, for his heart is still defiant. Thus, amidst the rottenness of dead men on a dead ship in a dead ocean, the Mariner lives on, suffering the anguish of his crime. But then, in spite of all his misery, he becomes conscious of beauty as he watches some water snakes swimming on the ocean surface, and miraculously at the climactic moment and dramatic center of the poem (in Part IV), he is so moved by their beauty that he exclaims "O happy living things!" as "a spring of love gushed from my heart, and I blessed them unaware' — and then he can pray. The Mariner has now sinned, suffered the inevitable consequences of sin, and enjoyed the first glorious fruits of redemption from sin through repentance. The poem, as a parable of good versus evil, could end here; but it does not, for Coleridge is aware of the complex nature of punishment and redemption, and he goes on to explore these complexities, emphasizing that "'the man hath penance done, and penance more will do." That one can never totally recover from the consequences of sin is the idea Coleridge stresses as the poem ends. Coleridge had unusual insight into the nature of good and evil; but, as Latter-day Saint readers with their greater insight through the restored gospel will see, apparently he did not understand the full power of the redeeming mission of Christ. The Mariner genuinely repents, and yet he still suffers the consequence of the sin once committed. Briefly he hopes to escape this torment and be fully free as he turns to a hermit (a holy man) with the thought, "He'll shrieve my soul, he'll wash away the Albatross's blood." But Coleridge knew, as any wise man knows, that one mortal being has not the authority to save another mortal being from his sins, and so the plea to the hermit is in vain. The gospel teaches that every person will be held responsible for the sins he knowingly commits. The atonement of the Savior, however, makes it possible for him to be saved if he repents and gives obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. Coleridge partly understood this truth, but not understanding it fully, he left the Mariner largely redeemed through repentance, but still suffering and partly enslaved by past deeds. In this discussion the moral aspects of the poem have been emphasized. Although these are important—and they are very important—to emphasize them alone somewhat distorts the poem. Therefore, the reader is invited to consider also those other aspects that make the poem great: its artistic richness, the magic of its haunting descriptions, the structural unity of its myriad details, and the compelling power of its fascinating narrative. All of these combine to make "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" one of the truly great poems of the world. Note to Class Leader Probably the most difficult of the four selections covered in this lesson is Wolfe's 'Dark in the Forest, Strange As Time." It is also the least available if class members do not have copies of the text. Therefore, some groups may wish to omit this selection and devote full time to the other selections. On the other hand, some readers will appreciate the challenge of a story as difficult as Wolfe's. The class leader should decide which selections to emphasize as most valuable to her group. The other selections are all readily available in many books as well as in the text. For groups not covering Wolfe's story, probably the best approach will be to spend a few minutes on Blake's 'The Lamb" and "The Tiger" and on Shakespeare's sonnet, then devote most of the time to Coleridge's "Rime of the Ancient Mariner." Thoughts and Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss the' effectiveness' in Blake's poem of the lamb as a symbol for good and the tiger as a symbol for evil. 2. Point out other evidences than those mentioned. In the printed discussion to show that Wolfe's story is filled with contrasts. 3. Discuss the further meaning of Shakespeare's line: "Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds." 4. Point out lines and stanzas—there are dozens of them—in Coleridge's "Rime of the Ancient Mariner" that you feel are especially vivid and excellent, explaining why they are vivid and excellent. 5. Discuss fully Coleridge's thoughts on the nature of sin and redemption from sin as reflected in "The Ancient Mariner." To what extent is Coleridge's insight limited as compared with the full knowledge of the restored gospel?