[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 503 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

Lorena Chipman (Mrs. Harvey) Fletcher, of Provo, Utah's Mother of the Year, was named American Mother of the Year on May 4 at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York, and was presented to the world on a live television interview transmitted to Europe by the Early Bird Satellite. Living for many years in New York, Mrs. Fletcher is an ideal homemaker and mother. A constant inspiration and teacher to her children morally and religiously, she also challenged their intellectual and aesthetic interests with visits to art galleries, museums, historical and natural beauty spots, and theaters and musical events. Warm and friendly, she opened her heart and her home to visiting foreigners and lonesome young people from Utah.

Her six living children are all faithful Latter-day Saints and very distinguished in their respective fields. Her husband is an internationally renowned physicist.

Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, was elected Third Vice-President of the American Mothers Committee, May 5, at a business meeting of the organization in New York City. President Spafford has been a committee member for a number of years. She attended the National Awards Luncheon on May 7th. Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board conducted the Singing Mothers of New York and New Jersey Stakes in a musical presentation for the luncheon.

Among the eminent American women recently selected to the Women's Hall of Fame at the World's Fair were Helen Keller, honored for her work among the handicapped; Marian Anderson, singer; Margaret BourkeWhite, photographer and correspondent; Pearl Buck, author; Gina Ferber, author; Helen Hayes, actress; Margaret Mead, anthropologist; and Senator Margaret Chase Smith.

Olive Woolley Burt's thirty-fifth book The First Book of Salt was recently published by Franklin Watts, Inc., New York. It is illustrated by fifty-two photographs relating to salt, from its processing in China, to an office made of salt, to carved figures of salt, to the old Saltair pavilion in Utah. It is informative and interesting for fourth graders and all ages beyond.

Adrienne Koch has selected and edited a remarkable collection of letters, excerpts from diaries, addresses, and other valuable historical documents in her book The American Enlightenment (Brazillier Publishers). She declares that the period of the Founding Fathers "was an exceptional, indeed a glorious time of thought and constructive human effort." Included among the statesmen represented are: Franklin, Jefferson, John Adams, Madison, and Hamilton—"a cluster of extraordinary men such as is rarely encountered in modern history."

Senator Margaret Chase Smith recently spoke to a women's journalistic group, making a plea for "untwisting this twisted age," and once again respecting and practicing fundamental truths and basic moral values, and getting away from our over-emphasis on the material.

503
