[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 505 | Home | Sunday Is Still Sunday When You're Camping | Leola Hacken]
[Sunday Is Still Sunday When You're Camping Leola Hacken]
[ILLUSTRATION: Family of four walking hand-in-hand through a snowy forest with evergreen trees]

[ILLUSTRATION: Family of four walking hand-in-hand through a snowy forest with evergreen trees]

Sunday Is Still Sunday When You're Camping

Leola Hacken

■ As the first campfires began to send wisps of blue smoke up among the pines many miles from our home, our children were just emerging from the showers at the campground. They looked so unusually "slicked up" for a campground that a companion from the night before rushed to my youngest daughter and cried out, "Where are you going? You said you weren't going until after Sunday!" "We're going to church, of course," my little daughter replied.

Her companion streaked across the campground calling, "Mother! Mother! I want to go to church, too!"

Like hundreds of other families, vacation means camping to our family. And like all active Latter-day Saint families, we know that the Sabbath is a day appointed to go to the house of prayer and offer up our sacraments, for it is a holy day.

Must these two situations conflict? We don't think so. In fact, we firmly believe that attendance at many, many scattered wards and tiny branches is a most profitable and rewarding way to prove to ourselves and our Heavenly Father, that we do respect his holy day. A little advance planning is the necessary step literally to smooth out the wrinkles. With planning ahead, and getting prepared, the Sabbath away from home can be a joyful family experience.

Every parent who has packed for camping knows the value of planning ahead and getting a good supply of film, insect-repellent, fishhooks, and on and on. In one plans to be away over the Sabbath, a list of necessary items must be extended, and a certain amount of extra space is required. We recommend an understanding of the benefits that come from Sabbath worship during that final time of loading the car, trailer or luggage rack. My husband's favorite joke is: "Whoever said, 'You can't take it with you,' hasn't seen my wife pack for camping."

But well before the loading of the car, comes the planning for the Sabbath. One's bishop will have the latest issue of the Directory of the General Authorities and Officers of the Church, including all stake presidents, bishoprics, and branch presidencies, and their locations. One's bishop will cooperate in giving the information needed. Next, arrange your time schedule to camp as near as possible to ward or branch. Don't think it has to be a large one! Some of our happiest Sabbath days have been spent when we attended very small branches. At one

505
