[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 543 | Home | Work Meeting for September — Teaching the | Gospel In]
WORK MEETING Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 9—Vocational Goals and Marriage (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) Objective: For September 1965 To point out that a wise mother may guide youth toward satisfying vocations and a happy marriage. INTRODUCTION Few individuals perhaps achieve their full potential while in this life, but the cultivation of one's potential, as a human being, may be spoken of as an over-all life objective. This means that the significent goal for any child is the develipment of his inherent capacity, so that he may know satisfaction and fulfillment in this life and be prepared for a greater joy in the eternity to come. This cultivation-effort will embrace areas of education, of vocation, of voluntary service to others, of spiritual understanding, and of marriage. The mother may exert a substantial influence in each of these areas. This lesson will discuss two important factors in achieving one's potential—that of selecting a vocation OF EDUCATION Education is basic to a full appreciation of life and may be an important factor in the selection of a satisfying vocation (employment). We well know, however, that education is not attained through academic training alone. We are aware of the importance of experience and of the influence of personal association outside the home and with family members within the home. We also know that if we are to appreciate the various aspects of life we need some knowledge of "history, and of countries, and of kingdoms, of laws of God and man (D&C 93:53). This knowledge will give us an appreciation for the fine arts, for world cultures, as well as some technical and scientific knowledge which are of such imporand that of selecting a marriage tance in today's. Challenging companion. World. 543 nn JULY 1965 How may a mother help her children appreciate the privilege of going to school and the blessings of an academic education? VOCATIONAL GOALS Vocational counselors impress upon us the need to consider individual talents and interests realistically, as we choose vocational goals. If one is to spend perhaps years at a specific type of employment, that employment should be one which will give some personal satisfaction and fulfillment. It should be one for which a person is adapted. (See lesson 6, under headings "Each Individual is Precious" and ''Discovering the Inherent Ability.'') How may a mother cooperate with teachers in discovering the special interests and aptitudes of her children? (Suggestion: Consult with teachers about the matter. Be aware of classroom projects which involve individual initiative and encourage children in line with these projects. ) Frequently, hobbies enjoyed in childhood reveal inherent abilities which later, may develop into lifetime vocations. Fathers and mothers may give special guidance to sons and daughters by helping them see the training which various employments involve, and, to some extent, what the rewards may be. What are some of the specific goals of employment which a mother may help her children to see and desire? (Suggestion: the satisfaction of being useful to society; the joy of accomplishment; the satisfaction of financial remuneration.) 544 WORDS OF CAUTION Sometimes a mother may speak disparagingly of certain occupations which are not in line with the "family tradition.""' How may this influence children? Sometimes mothers' express such high regard for the professions that children may feel that they are "letting the family down" unless they become doctors, lawyers, professors, business executives, etc. They may feel that unless they become outstanding in a professional way they will not fulfill their mother's expectations. What may this do to a son whose potential lies in the area of manual skills? How may a mother help her children to see that we need various professions and varied skills; that if all sons were surgeons or lawyers, there would be no one to build houses, to install the plumbing, to manufacture cars for transportation. How may a mother help her daughters to feel that the roles of wife and of mother are of prime importance? That the goals to be achieved are challenging and also rewarding? Will a mother's positive statements made occasionally be sufficient, or will an everyday attitude be more effective? CHOOSING A MARRIAGE "Choosing a marriage' may imply two areas of choice. First, that there is a choice of the marriage partner and, second, that there is choice as to the type of married life that will result. In many cultures of the past, and even in some of the present day, the individuals most concerned play little or no part in the matter of choosing the marriage partner. This discussion applies to those situations only, in which the candidates for marriage are personally involved in the matter of choosing the marriage partner (companion). "How do I choose a mate?" Should your son or daughter ask you this question, how would you reply? A counselor for youth, Dr. Lowell Bennion, gives this answer: "Choose in the light of the life you wish to achieve." With this answer in mind, we may say that the answers to both of the following questions are dependent upon the kind of life one wishes to achieve. "'What may I expect from marriage?" and '"'How do I choose a mate?'' Do you believe that most young people today have clearly defined marriage goals? If so, how do you think they would be listed, in order of importance? Why do you think about this as you do? THE PREPARED PARTNER We may hear this statement, "A person gets out of marriage just what he puts into it." Achieving happiness' through marriage, really is not this simple. A marriage involves more than one person. Although one marriage partner may be well prepared to contribute personal qualities which make for a "good" marriage, if the other partner is immature and ill prepared to contribute similar qualities, this marriage may have a poor chance of achieving happiness. A mother shares with the faLESSON DEPARTMENT ther the responsibility to help their children prepare for marriage; to have worthwhile, clearly defined goals in mind, and to choose the marriage partner as wisely as possible. Mothers should help their children see that "Just because two people think they are in love does not mean that they are insured a happy marriage forevermore. In addition to a strong feeling of love, they also need knowledge, understanding, and wisdom to have a successful marriage in the modern age" (Rex A. Skidmore). HOW AND WHEN How and when shall parents guide children toward wise marriage choices? We are reminded that influencing youth toward happy married life is a gradual, lifelong process; that advice on marriage should be given so wisely and gradually that children will desire, formulate, and move toward worthwhile marriage goals, naturally, while at the same time not being denied their free agency. It is suggested that guidance be given subtly; that a sense of humor may be an invaluable ally in "nutting over" ideas. A mother who is earnest, yet obviously in good humor, may have a better chance of impressing her child with constructive counsel, than if she is obviously agitated and apprehensive. Sometimes, the unexpected comment may be more effective than the usual, expected statement. Illustration. A father who was somewhat concerned about his son staying out too late, said: