[Vol27 | March 1940 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Work and Jensen]
Work and Business By Leda T. Jensen
"The first sure symptom of a mind in health Is rest of heart, and pleasure felt at home."
TO build a successful superstructure upon its foundation, the corner-stone of which is service, Relief Society must always incorporate in its program practical phases of living which will contribute to well rounded, integrated lives of the women of the Church. At the meeting of the Nauvoo Relief Society, September 2, 1843, it was proposed that the Society "get together materials for the Saints for bedding that they might not suffer as they did last winter". At the October 14th meeting it was proposed "that a sewing society be appointed that garments and bed coverings might be made and given to such as are suffering cold and nakedness".
These were the initial movements of the Society in the interest of sewing for those in need, known today as Work and Business meetings.
Sewing was the first concrete activity of the Relief Society, a practical means of following the advice of the Prophet when he outlined among other objectives "looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity, and administering to their wants".
From the beginning until now, the program has grown and expanded to meet all the objectives outlined for the Society. We have fine courses of study, each one teaching us how to serve. The activities of Work and Business day give us opportunities to serve.
When the point was reached in the wards that the supply of goods for the needy exceeded the demand, then members of the Relief Society were asked to turn their attention to the needs in their own homes and to strive to become more skillful, more efficient homemakers. Inventions, factory production and labor-saving devices have taken from the home many activities of pioneer life, but as long as family life exists, woman will be the homemaker. As long as we eat food, wear clothing, and have homes as places of shelter, someone will have to see that food is produced or purchased and prepared in the home, that clothing is made in the home or purchased ready-to-wear, and that after one fashion or another the home is furnished and decorated. In a rapidly changing world, which is making tremendous inroads upon the sphere of the family and the home, it is imperative that the homemaker be taught to recognize her position in the home and to apply all the knowledge she may gain concerning wiser management and better living to her home and family. It is one thing to obey the great commandment given man "to multiply and replenish the earth". It is quite another matter to wisely care for the children given us by our Heavenly Father.
Many people have the idea that because woman is the natural mother of the race, that by nature also she knows all that is necessary to care for and train her children.
