[Vol27 | March 1940 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society as a Lyman]
Relief Society As A Community Builder By President Amy Brown Lyman
WOMEN have always been great and important factors in community building.
Pioneer women, for example, with their indomitable courage and determination, worked side by side with their husbands and sons in blazing trails, in founding and developing new settlements and in extending the borders of civilization.
Women everywhere are leaders in helping to inaugurate movements and to establish institutions and agencies for the benefit of humanity.
History is replete with the struggle and achievement of brave and courageous women. Relief Society women from the beginning have been public-spirited and social-minded.
Their influence has been felt in frontier pioneering and in all phases of progressive effort, both in rural and urban communities.
While their organization was founded primarily for philanthropic and charitable purposes, one of the early supplementary assignments appropriately given to them was "to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community". Accordingly, wherever branches of the Church have been located, Relief Society women have been alert to community needs and active participants in community activities and development.
Like workers in other family welfare agencies, Relief Society women early discovered for themselves that successful family welfare work depends in large measure upon the social and economic resources available in the community.
This knowledge, fortified by study and research, gives them an understanding of the inter-dependence of individual and community betterment, broadening their interest in the community and helping them to be intelligent, helpful, cooperative citizens.
They realize that corrective work for individuals often points to the need for preventive measures for the benefit of the whole community. For example, surgical operations emphasize the need for hospital facilities readily available to the community; a case or two of typhoid fever is often a signal that something must be done about the water supply in order to prevent an epidemic; and the lack of remunerative employment for heads of families arouses the interest of community-minded individuals in employment problems. Thus, Relief Society women are interested in the home, the school, the church; in playgrounds and recreation work; in hospitals, clinics and health centers; in home and community economics. THROUGHOUT the many years since its organization, the Relief Society has carried forward a continuous and varied program in community betterment and welfare.
Notable among early activities were: the suffrage movement for the purpose of giving woman a voice in public affairs; seri-culture, established in the interest of home industry 180 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and employment; grain-storing against need; women's cooperative stores to facilitate the exchange of domestic commodities; health work, including courses in nursing and obstetrics and the establishment of the Deseret Hospital in Salt Lake City (the first L. D. S.
Hospital and the second in the state of Utah); erection of Relief Society halls for organization meetings and socials; temperance and peace education.
Among the later movements which have found expression in actual service to the community are: definite studies in community organization and resources; civic-pride campaigns; and a continuation of health work with emphasis on public health and sanitation, child health and maternal and infant care, coordinated in most communities with newly developed state and federal programs.
Deeply interested in maternal and child welfare, the organization cooperated whole-heartedly with state and federal agencies, first under provisions of the former Sheppard-Towner Act, and later of the present Social Security Act. A few typical, specific examples of Relief Society activity in the interest of public health are cited: In one locality, through the efforts of Relief Society women, a pure water supply was obtained for the entire community; in several counties Relief Society women cooperated financially with other agencies in supporting in each of their respective counties a public health nurse or a clinic for dental care; in another area, drinking fountains were placed in ten public school buildings by the Relief Societies. In one state the Society assisted in the establishment of 150 health centers and four county health units, in many instances contributing funds for the work.
Cabinets and chests, well equipped with articles for loan or rental, primarily for maternity cases, were set up in practically all of the ward or stake Relief Societies; a first-class maternity hospital established in one stake in 1924 is still being operated successfully.
Funds for the health work are derived chiefly from the interest on a half-million dollar trust fund owned jointly by the local Societies and built up over many years by the actual production or gleaning of wheat by Relief Society women.
Through special civic-pride campaigns much has been accomplished along public health lines, general sanitation, and community beautification. An important and constructive piece of work in which Relief Society played an important part was the establishment in Utah of the State Training School for the Feebleminded. In a course of study on Mental Hygiene the care and protection of unfortunate children who never grow up was one of the subjects considered.
Through this study and research and through actual contact with afflicted homes, Relief Society women became aware of the pressing need for an institution for care of the feeble-minded. As a result, they aroused community interest, circulated petitions to the legislature and were largely instrumental in the establishment of this state institution.
With the promotion of community health, social welfare, and education as its objective, the Relief Society has established one fund to stimulate creative writing, and six educational loan funds—two in the field of nursing, three in the interest of social service, and one for higher education for women.
