[Vol52 | October 1965 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Blue October | Author: Etta Robbins,]
October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_10_09_SpFt_Tribute_Crane.txt) ===
Cannon Selina Mann, President, Apia Stake Relief Society, a convert to the Church in 1947, was chosen by the Government of Western Samoa to be their representative at a United Nations Human Rights Seminar held in Mongolia August 3-17, 1965. Mrs. Mann traveled through Australia, New Delhi, Moscow, and Irkutsk before arriving at Ulan Bator, Mongolia, on August 2nd. Included in the agenda at the meetings were the meaning and importance of participation of women in public life; factors which affect such participation; measures needed to increase the contributions of women to public life; and the action which might be taken to achieve the objectives considered. Ivy Houtz Woolley, Las Vegas, Nevada, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has recently had a collection of her poems, Sifted From the Sand, published by the Exposition Press, New York. Mrs. Woolley, an accomplished musician, has long been active in volunteer social service work, and has spent many hours reading to the blind. The former Hope Cook, once a New York debutante and a graduate of Sarah Lawrence College, where she majored in Oriental studies, married the Crown Prince of Sikkim soon after her graduation. Now mother of a year-old son, Palden, she was crowned Queen when her husband was crowned King of Sikkim on April 4, in Gangtok, capital of the high Himalayan little kingdom. Her broad education and interest in the problems of the people have made her a helpful person in her new country. Ells Maria Ferriero is considered America's finest Aida. She is a member of the New York City Opera Company, and has sung many difficult and exacting operatic roles throughout the country. Her remarkable voice is especially noted for its depth and vibrancy, and for its enunciation and breath control. Her impersonation of Aida, an Ethiopian princess enslaved by the Egyptians, has been described as ''majestic, glorious, unforgettably tragic." Miss Elizabeth Meehan is an expert in garden lighting, a delightful new fashion which is really an art. She is the color and lighting design coordinator with the Sylvania Electronics Products Company, Salem, Massachusetts. There should be one focal point in a lighted garden, the same as in a painting, she advises. Miss Meehan has won many awards in her field. Helen G. Russell of Gorham, Maine, Professor of Mathematics at Wellesley College, is also a photographer of note. Recently in a World Travel Photo Contest sponsored by the Saturday Review, she won the grand prize for color photography for her appealing picture of a child in a sampan. Her award was a round-trip to Hong Kong, with all expenses paid. Ellen-Ann Dunham, Vice-President of General Foods Corporation, is an expert on designing kitchens. Her unique and original ideas on the arrangement of cupboards and storage space have won acclaim by home economists throughout the world.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_10_29_Lssn_Theology_Doxey.txt) ===
should all be eternally grateful for the blessings of work and for the development that purposeful industry brings to each of us. Charles Kingsley has said, "Thank God every morning when you get up that you have something to do that day which must be done, whether you like it or not. Being forced to work, and foresu to do your best, will breed in you temperance and self-control, diligence and strength of will, cheerfulness and content, and a hundred virtues which the idle never know" (as quoted in Marler, Ezra L.: Golden Nuggets of Thought, Volume II, page 148). Without doubt the most effective medicine to heal discontent and drive away discouragement is purposeful and diligent work. Most of us have within us the necessary power for useful, progressive and successful lives. If we apply the abilities which may lie dormant within us, our powers LESSON DEPARTMENT for accomplishment will develop and grow. We are now living during a period of remarkable opportunities, when the Lord has poured out his spirit upon the inhabitants of the earth. It is a glorious and choice opportunity for each of us to be a part of this great progress, and to be able, through industry and work, to make our small, but most important contribution. For our own happiness and success, we should heed this commandment of the Lord as stated in the Doctrine and