[Vol52 | October 1965 | Page 744 | General Feature | Editorial: On Beginnings Louise | W. Madsen]
EDITORIAL they must enlist the interest of class members in the beginning to gain the desired response. "Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth'' (James 3:5). Good beginnings seldom just happen. They are the result of careful Preparation, prayerful consideration, and meticulous Planning. A new Start is fraught with Possibilities. There is something invigorating, something of the breath of new adventure, a refreshing of one's attitude with the redirecting of one's efforts. 

 e@ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e@ Louise wW. Madsen, Second Counselor ® Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer With the arrival of October, a full scale of activities resumes and new courses of study are introduced. Each Relief Society presidency is responsible for each yearly beginning. So much depends on making it an eagerly anticipated event. Never should the opening of Relief Society be a dull and humdrum thing. An uninspiring beginning is a handicap difficult to overcome. The responsibility to stimulate and motivate makes it necessary to have the opening social and opening meetings right in spirit, attractive in presentation, and reflecting cherished sisterhood. Each class leader is responsible for making the initial yearly class periods vital, helpful, interesting, thought provoking and _ inviting to participation in learning. By affirming her conviction of the worth of the subject she teaches, and by her enthusiasm, she makes the beginning meaningful. A good beginning becomes the foundation upon which success is built. ''Though thy beginning was small, yet thy latter end should greatly increase' (Job 8:7). Relief Society had its beginning in this last dispensation 123 years ago. Its auspicious organization is the foundation for its growth and achievements. As a pebble thrown into a pond breaks the calm surface and causes the water to ripple in everwidening circles, Relief Society, from its start, has spread in everwidening waves to influence and uplift women of many lands. Come with us, begin with us, be one with us, Relief Society calls. Let the beginning of this year's work find every sister in her place in the organization the Lord caused to be created for his daughters. —L. W. M. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Etsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson lrene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C.