[Vol52 | October 1965 | Page 755 | Poem | Sweeping Out the Cobwebs Maxine | T. Grimm]
Sweeping Out the Cobwebs Maxine T. Grimm ® You don't have to return to a neglected or vacated house to find cobwebs—the spiders are busy all the time. After all, they have more time than we do, and, too, they have their houses to build. Nevertheless, as I was sweeping the cobwebs from my ceiling, I conceived another "Household Sermonette."' It might be a good idea to start sweeping a few cobwebs, not only from our ceiling, but from our lives to clear our vision to the beauty of God's world. There are endless cobwebs—ignorance, temper, stubbornness, procrastination, neglect, laziness, impatience, exasperation—you could go on and on. Does the cobweb of ignorance keep you from enjoying the great achievements of man? Does it make you accept less than your due on earth because you don't fully understand the scriptures? Can you observe the beauty of a sunset till it stirs you inside and sends chills up your spine, or does the cobweb of impatience cause you to see only the passing of time and a late appointment? Can you respond to the joy of your son making his first home run, or have you shackled yourself with the cobweb of stubbornness and insist that he wipe his muddy shoes first, and so spoil a magic moment? Did you cheer up a lonely neighbor as you had promised, or are you enmeshed in the cobweb of procrastination—you have too much to do, you haven't the time—there are shopping and cleaning and children and meetings? Can you give your Relief Society lessons with true inspiration, or are they clouded by the cobwebs of neglect in preparation and research?
When your husband looks as if he is carrying a problem, do you draw him out to see if you can help, or do you let your cobweb of impatience for getting household things done promptly, interfere? Do you waste precious time complaining about a torn ironing cover, a lost hammer, a cracked window, rather than admit that the cobweb of neglect has entangled your action? Let us dispel these cobwebs of ignorance with learning. Our Church sponsors this. There are endless opportunities. Relief Society meetings are an excellent beginning. Dispel the cobweb of temper with control, the cobweb of procrastination with action, stubbornness with a consideration of others, neglect with interest, impatience with patience, laziness with activity, and exasperation with inspiration. What are your cobwebs? List them, and one by one dissolve them with their own dissolving agent. To help us the beauty of God's world to see— Sweep out the cobwebs wherever they may be. 755