The Relief Society Magazine Volume 52+ Number 10. October 1965 Lessons for January My mother called me into her apartment, then, in the wisdom of her eighty-nine years, asked me to hear a "beautiful article." With firm, clear tones, she read the Luacine C. Fox article (June 1965) on ''Thoughts of a Mother During a Family Home Evening.'' I, too, was inspired and fed by those tender words and wished that every mother might live them. Dorothy J. Roberts Salt Lake City, Utah I was thrilled with the picture ofthe Jamieson River, Victoria, Australia (the cover for the April 1965 Magazine). We live within one hundred miles from there. Our branch is still small, but our enthusiasm is in the opposite ratio. Hilda M. Curtis Shepparton, Australia I live in a community where there is no electricity. Everyone carries water. There are no other members of the Church here. Seward is sixty miles away. I do not want to be without the Magazine, because there is too much life-giving substance contained between the covers. It is a source of much hapPpiness, and gives me rich thoughts to pass on to my five children. Stella W. Powers Hope, Alaska The sisters of our stake appreciate the Magazine very much. It is beautifully prepared, and it enriches our lives and brings much to our understanding and development. Reading about the work that is carried on in ail parts of the world makes each of us feel close to these sisters. Fern L. Hatch, President Philadelphia Stake Relief Society My most sincere congratulations on the Magazine. It is really outstanding in looks and content. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Provo, Utah 722 I just wanted to let you know how much I love the Magazine. It always has a much-needed message tucked in its pages—stories that bring tears to the eyes, delicious recipes, and excellent lessons. I especially appreciated the story '"'Don't Feel Sorry for Me,"' (by Alice Gubler Sabin, July 1965). She has found what I am looking for. Mrs. Melva McKenzie Cambridge, Massachusetts I extend sincere appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine, with its inspirational and worthwhile articles and poetry. They have helped me to grow in. The gospel, and have strengthened my testimony of truth. I am nineteen, and have read every issue of my mother's Magazine since 1955. I especially enjoyed Amelia Everett's ''The Nature of Thought,"' in the April 1965 issue. Charlene Gold Payson, Utah It was with joy that I read the sweet poem ''Prodigal' by Carol Clark Ottesen in the July issue of the Magazine. My joy was great because Carol and I were in the same English class at the Springville, Utah, high school. I dearly love the Magazine and the riches contained therein. Valene Thorn Bateman ~ Etna, Wyoming The editorial ''A Goodly Heritage,' by Vesta P. Crawford (July 1965) gives so much substance to what I've been seeing and thinking about and working on that I must say thanks for it. I try to visualize my paternal grandfather, from England, who was thirty years old in 1860 and the difficult task of finding enough to eat in this area. A letter written by grandmother in 1869 tells of 'peas ready on May 10th and potatoes growing in the garden." Dr. Sedley Stanford Utah State University Logan, Utah thee Relief Society eceazine Oar ~ ae ae Fs 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIEIY ot the Church of Jesus Unrist of Latter-aay Saints. 1965 by the Relief Society Generali Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.