[Vol52 | October 1965 | Page 780 | Lesson | Theology — Knowledge and Events of the Future Roy | W. Doxey]
[Theology — Knowledge and Events of the Future Roy W. Doxey]

But our favorite study is that branch which particularly belongs to the Elders of Israel — namely, theology. Every Elder should become a profound theologian — should understand this branch better than all the world. There is no Elder who has the power of God upon him but understands more of the principles of theology than all the world put together (Journal of Discourses 6:317). 


 come to pass (e) "Things which are at home" To the elders abroad in 1833, this Counsel was given: - +». Apply yourselves diligently to Study, that your minds may be stored with all necessary information (DHC 1: 469), ANOTHER APPLICATION It is true that verses 77 79, and In Prophesying that Zion will be ahead of the world ven in secular learning (lbid., 21:100 The Because Latter-day Saints believe that the temporal affairs of life have their spiritual meaning, the incentive to become educated is given greater stimulus (D&C 29:34-35). It seems necessary, always, to keep in mind that the salvation principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ save in this life and in the life to come and should never be neglected in preference to secular learning as such. MISSIONARY RESPONSIBILITY The missionary prepared to teach the principles of salvation and to learn the essentials of his environment in further preparing himself, is told that he should testify and warn the people. Today, as in 1832, all are to make known the principles of the gospel. This responsibility, so discharged, would free the missionary from the blood of his generation and leave the world without excuse (/bid., 88:81-82). Those people who would come to the Lord early would never be forsaken by him (Verse 83; Lesson 37, Relief Society Magazine, November 1961). BE FREE To be a true disciple of the Lord is to be free (John 8:31- 32). The elders of the Church were to continue in the freedom which they had received through the gospel of Jesus Christ. The converts of 1832 had come out of the world to become citizens of the kingdom of God. To them the Lord addressed these words: Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord comes (D&C 88:86). LESSON DEPARTMENT In terms of the person's purpose in life, true freedom is to be free from those practices which hinder one from advancing on to the goal of eternal perfection. When the Prophet Joseph Smith defined salvation, he said: '"Salvation is nothing more nor less than to triumph over all our enemies and put them under our feet" (DHC V:387). Examples of man's enemies are the antonyms of the virtues such as those found in Section 4—skepticism, ignorance, hate, intolerance, fear, selfishness, and so forth. Members of the Church have found a new life in Jesus Christ through the benefits of release from the bondage of sin into freedom, a freedom which must be continually maintained through prayer, activity in the Church, and obedience to the other commandments. Habits and practices which bring one into bondage are contrary to the freedom which the gospel teaches one should seek. "Entangle not yourselves in sin" (D&C 88:86). The words of Elder James E. Talmage suggest to one that the person who lives close to sin in printed material, television, movies, etc., may soon find himself in bondage. Hosts of capable souls have heedlessly put themselves into the enemy's power by yielding to the treacherous invitation to fraternize with sin. Such a one is made welcome in the camp of the foe, and at first a visitor, he sooner or later awakens to the fact that he is a prisoner, and withal a deserter from the ranks of patriotism and honor (The Vitality of Mormonism, 1948 ed., page 335). UNTIL THE LORD COMES From the beginning of this dispensation, the warning voice of 


 the Lord has been uttered in revelation and the fulfillment of the prophecies by disturbances on the earth (D&C 1:35; 29:14-21: 43:18-27: 45:26-42), Similar warnings of judgments to come were given in 1839 and the Lord's Prophets since then have called upon all to repent lest these judgments come upon them. The First Presidency of 1949 President George Albert Smith, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., David O. McKay) indicated that 5,000 missionaries were proclaiming the Sospel in the world, and their purPose was stated as: warned the People as follows (D&C 88: 89-91 quoted). As_ the Heavenly Father, we admonish people Following the predicted earthquakes, wars, floods, and commotion among the inhabitants of the earth, angels are to fly through the heavens crying, prepare ye for the Bridegroom cometh (D&C 88:92). THE SIGN OF THE SON OF MAN When the Savior was asked concerning the Signs of his comIng in the last days, he replied by mentioning several of these signs, one of which was "the Sign of the 784 last days, this sign shall be seen by all What is this sign? The Prophet " second coming and said that the Lord would reveal his intent to his Servants the prophets Concerning the judgments, -.. There will be wars and rumors of wars, Signs. In the heavens above and on the earth beneath, the sun be as the light of the morning cometh out of the east (DHC V: 387). THE SEVEN TRUMPS Seven angels are to sound their trumps, each trump marking an event, beginning with the binding of the apostate church. Then silence will reign for half an hour, Preparatory to the second coming of the Lord, At his advent the Tessurrection of celestial beings will occur, followed by the resurrection of the terrestrial beings, The millenium will come when the Savior and men shall live jn peace and _ righteousness for a thousand years. At the end of that period, telestial persons wil] Come from their graves, and, finally, after the millennium, the sons of perdition will: be resurrected (D&C 88:94-102: Lesson Society Magazine, August 1965). The revelation continues with the remaining three trumps, announcing that all shall worship LESSON DEPARTMENT aker "foy the hour Of the €nd of the millenium, for the ls jJudgm is come" (D&C gg fina] Conflict. Michae » Or Adam 103-104) "nouncement of the Sevent ngel, even the arch fall of B lon or Wickednegs will ngel, Shal] Sather together his follow With the triump ant cry armies, eve the hosts of heaven by the Seventh ange] to battle Against Satan and his -« It is finished: it jg finished! The armies (D&C 88:171 13), Lamb of od hath Overcome and trodAnd then cometh battle of the en the Wine-presg alon even the great God: the vil and ies Wine-presgs of the €rceness of the armies shal] be cast aWay into their Wrath of Alm; htly G (Verse 106). Own place, that they Shall not have PoOWer over the Saint t ALL THINGS TO BE KNOWN all. El ae During the millenium the solu For Michael] Shall fight their battles ion of an vexing Problems and shall 6 Concerning the earth and its jinhabitants l me him who seeketh ne of him Who sitte will be Sven (D&C the thron e 101:32-34). The Lo Inal defeat of the evil and his followers, they will stence since Adam's € Cast into hel] Which wag prefall, men's acts have been recordPared for hem fro th begined. The Tevealing of € secret ning (Jb; 29:38. 44). Then acts of men and "th Oughts follow the Sounding of the last and intents Of their hearts" and three angels' try p already menthe mighty orks of God in each loned, "Nouncing he Judgment One of these Seven Periods, Will the fall g Wickedne » and the occur during the millennia] period rlumph God's Ork for the Of peace and therhoo upon Salvation of men (Lh; 88:103-. © earth (16; » 88:108-1; 77: 07). ~/, 12: Lesson 56, Relief Society a€azine, February 1964), QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSsion 1. What are some benefits of fasting POST-MILLENNiAL EVENTS and praying? I The last éreat effort of Satan at 7 hay fo, that I 0 ascend to he throne of God O atter-day Saint belief regardWill come wh € is loosed at the ing education? End of the millenniy LA 2reat 3. Hy is our dispensation 4 period Ivision among the People will re. — verano i Joma Sult whe Satan reigns for a little hat did Sus mean When lees Season. He Will gath r together Said: "A © Shall know the Is forces Mprising the Spirits truth, and the truth shall make peo follo ed hi inthe nes 5 Dae a events ee) as Mortal] World OSe Morta] ollowing the mil] nnium until Who 4postatized fro the tr uth at he force of evil are ©vercome. 785 Tvant beca Wicked use he Mploy hig PoOsses. Sions advantageoy y. Ul ten per cent of our abilities and TY the potential]. One Teason for this jg or example, Lord tells ys "Six ingly active. He is painstakingly busy and diligent and is devoted to lawful and useful labor. We