[Vol48 | January 1961 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Award]
Award Subscriptions Presented in April HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1960 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1961. Bound Volume of 1960 Mlagazines RELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1960 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine.) 'The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.75, leather $4.20, including the index. A limited number of the 1959 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1960 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Page 38 January to December 1961 Hymn of the ITlonth — Annual List THE Church-wide congregational hymn singing project, inaugurated by the Church Music Committee, will be continued during the coming year, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. The purpose of this project is to increase the hymn repertoire of the Church members and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Stake Relief Society choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at leadership meetings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this project. January February March April May June July August September October November December Come, Let Us Anew Cuarces WESLEY - JAMES Lucas Choose the Right James L. Townsenp - Henry A. Tuckett Jesus, the Very Thought of Thee BERNARD OF CLAIRVAUX - JOHN B. Dykes We Are Sowing H. A. TucxettT There Is Beauty All Around (Love at Home) O God, The Eternal Father WILLIAM W. PHELPS - FreL_ix MENDELSSOHN Sweet Is the Work, My God, My King James CrysTat - Frank W. ASPER Let Us Oft Speak Kind Words JosepH L. Townsenp - EBENEZER BEESLEY Nearer, Dear Savior, to Thee JoserH L. ToOwNnsENpD - WILLIAM CLAYSON Lead Kindly Light Joun Henry NEwMAN Joun B. Dykes Have I Done Any Good? WILL L. THOMPSON - Witt L. THompson More Holiness Give Me Puitie Paut B. IIss - Puitie Pau BuIss No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Oy 110 148 (Easter) 192 169 125 168 94 117 112 114 Page 39 Prevent Crippling (Diseases Basil O'Connor President, 'The National Foundation HE National Foundation, parent organization of the New March of Dimes, has not only kept pace with the great strides made in medical research towards the solution of health problems, but, in many areas, has also assumed a leadership role in the effort to improve health standards in the Nation. "Prevent Crippling Diseases" is the theme of the 1961 New March of Dimes. 'This is the purpose for the dimes and dollars which will come from every corner of the Nation... To protect human life through scientific research... To help educate young health workers so desperately needed by the entire Nation... To give dignity to lives shattered by paralytic polio, by certain birth defects, by rheumatoid arthritis. The New March of Dimes is on its way on its way to solving two other great medical problems with the same skills that were brought to bear against polio and produced the Salk vaccine... On its way to do the job that needs doing against birth defects and arthritis. Over the years, National Foundation research has been unique in the voluntary health field because it has not been oriented to a single disease. Instead, it has concentrated on the whole field of virus research and thus the findings have had a bearing on the whole field of disease and disability. "Today, viruses are valuable tools for National Foundation-supported scientists engaged in basic research on human cells. This work promises to have an important bearing both on genetics and cancer research. Some March-of-Dimes-supported scientists are particularly concerned with the possible relationship between viruses and birth defects. Prevent crippling diseases. Please say YES to the NEW MARCH OF DIMES. O_o Hidden Harmonies Maude O. Cook Have you ever heard the day break, Or the shades of evening fall? Have you listened to the music of the spheres? Have you caught the silken rustle of the seasons as they pass? Have you hearkened to the tramp of marching years? Are there whispers in the twilight Speaking solace to the heart, Bringing peace and comfort to dispel the fears? Is the air about us vibrant — Filled with hidden harmonies — Tones too subtle to be heard by mortal ears? Page 40 Yulia Anderson Kirby Specializes in Harda nger Work i Anderson Kirby, Logan, Utah, is a specialist in the exacting art of Hardanger,. A type of handwork which is very beautiful and decorative, though practically unknown in many areas today. Hardanger handwork, named from a district in Norway, consists of intricate and various designs of drawnwork in squares and diamonds and other patterns. Recently Mrs. Kirby presented a lovely Hardanger cloth to the Logan Temple. An enthusiastic artist at other types of handwork, Mrs. Kirby crochets, knits, embroiders, makes many useful articles with applique designs, and is an expert at ceramics. Her children, grandchildren, and friends have been given many exquisite articles of her handwork. Widowed in young womanhood, with three children to rear, she learned industry and responsibility. She was converted to the Church in 1923, and later married John J. Kirby. She has served faithfully in the women's auxiliaries of the Church and has been a visiting teacher and a member of the work meeting committee: in Relief Society. Her family now includes twelve grandchildren and eighteen greatgrandchildren. Vigic Padda M. Speller Rayleigh, Essex, England To say "I love thee" costs me naught, Mere words and nothing more, But the obedience I have wrought Proclaims "Thee I adore." Page 4} Fun to lake and WVear Shirley Thulin AKE these two attractive outfits for schooldays. 'They are easy to make and a joy to wear. Reminiscent of Grandma's patchwork quilt, is this patchwork skirt. The teenager in your home will love wearing it to classes. She may even want to make it herself. It is simple to make and is a good way to use leftover cotton prints from former sewing projects. The "Jiffy Jumper" also, is simple to make and fun to wear, and it is practical. Patchwork Skirt For the patchwork skirt you will need: 18 yards of rickrack, a 7-inch zipper, and five different colored cotton prints, 3/4 of a yard of each. These directions are for a 27 to 28 inch long skirt. You can lengthen or shorten it, as needed, by cutting the squares a little smaller or larger. To cut fabric: 1. Cut from each separate print, 4 rectangles 10 inches wide and 11 inches long. 2. Cut only one waistband from one print to your waist measure, plus two inches. To make patchwork: 1. First tier—seam together patches on the 10-inch sides, using one of each print. Then repeat in the same order, having 10 patches in one tier. Press all the seams open flat. 2. Second tier—repeat the entire first tier, starting with second print. Be sure to press all the seams. 3. Third tier—seam together patches on 11-inch side as above, starting with the third print. 4. Join the tiers together horizontally, Page 42 being sure that no two identical patches are next to each other. Press seams open. 5. Stitch rickrack over the vertical seams, then over the horizontal seams. To complete the skirt: 1. Seam the ends together, making the seam be the back of the skirt. Leave opening for the zipper. Stitch rickrack over this seam and the front edge of the opening. Insert the zipper. 2. Fold the waistband in half and seam the ends with the right sides together. Turn. 3. Gather the upper edge of the skirt to fit the waistband, leaving 1 inch free for the overlap. La Lon ZO YE ee HU Ss AP% FLARED PATCHWORK SKIRT Trimmed With Rickrack FUN TO MAKE AND WEAR 4. Attach the waistband, first stitching the inner side of the band to the wrong side of the skirt, then folding to the right side of the skirt and top stitching over the seam. 5. Stitch rickrack over the waistband stitching. 6. Hem the lower edge with % inch first fold and 2% inch depth. Jiffy Jumper Now for the "Jiffy Jumper." This jumper answers the everyday problem of how to keep the little girl attractively groomed and yet free for good hard play. It is a jumper that snaps up the sides and at the shoulders, allowing endless changes simply by sewing and by stitching a variety of fronts in different prints, stripes, and polka dots. The jumper is perfect for playtime — Indian head _ washability sees to that, and with the right blouse, it becomes a crisp, colorful school dress. The back of the jumper is made in basic color. Different fronts can be made, utilizing Indian head SEPARATE FRONT FOR JUMPER Showing fasteners on both sides Page 43 mann ( 9 == JUMPER WITH BELT AND POCKET prints; snaps on both sides permit quick changes. All you need do is remove the solid front, throw it in the washer, and snap on the alternate change. This makes for easy ironing, too. The simplicity of the styling makes the jiffy jumper practical and pretty for mother, too. With the jumper silhouette an accepted fashion, you can make your own style to your own pattern in very little time. Just follow your favorite jumper pattern, placing snaps along the side seams instead of stitching them together. For a second jiffy jumper, you might try using large colorful buttons in place of the snaps. Still another variation to this idea, which permits dozens of mixmatch combinations, would be to make the back of the jumper from corduroy or gabardine, and make the fronts from colorful matching and contrasting cottons. as \\_FROM THE FIELD IZ General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents.