[Vol48 | January 1961 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Stretching | Author: Luce]
[Stretching, Celia Larsen Luce,]
Stretching 
Celia  Larsen  Luce 
IKE  a  tree,  the  way  we  stretch  is  the  way  we  grow.    The  tree  stretches  toward  the 
'  light.    What  am  I  stretching  toward?

V 
t^ 
Work    TTLeeting—  Caring  for  the  Sick  in  the  Home 
(A  Course  Expected  to  Be  Used  by  Wards  and  Branehes  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  7  —  Feeding  the  Patient  —  Oral  Medications  —  Local 
Application  of  Heat  and  Cold 
Maria  Johnson 
For  Tuesday,  April  ii,  1961 
Objectives: 
A.  To  give  a  few  hints  that  will  help  in  one's  efforts  to  stimulate  the  sick  patient 
to  take  the  nourishment  she  needs. 
B.  To  stress  the  serious  responsibility  in   giving  medication  and  learn  some  im- 
portant safety  measures  in  handling  drugs  and  giving  them  by  mouth. 
C.  To  consider  some  effects  of  heat  and  cold  on  the  body  and  also  measures  for 
their  safe  application. 
A.  Feeding  the  Patient 
Tj^EEDING  the  sick  patient  is  always  an  important  part  of  medical  treat- 
ment.   The  doctor  will  tell  you  if  there  is  to  be  any  modification  of 
the  regular  diet,  or  if  the  patient  is  to  have  a  restricted  special  diet.    It  is 
then  up  to  you  to  see  that  the  patient  takes  the  nourishment  prescribed. 
The  patient  often  has  no  appetite,  or  at  times  is  just  too  tired  to  make 
the  effort  to  eat.  Here  are  a  few  hints  that  will  encourage  him  to  eat: 
§ 
I^^T"^/ 
n 
^'"~ 
\v    \ 
When  possible,  sit  down  to 
feed  the  patient 
Before  serving  the  tray,  tidy  up  the  room,  clear  the  bedside  table  or  overbed  table 
ready  for  the  tray.     Make  the  patient  comfortable,  offer  bedpan  (or  urinal),  wash 
her  hands.     If  she  can  sit  up  in  bed,  support  her  back  with  pillows  and  place  the 
overbed  table  over  her  lap,  or  she  may  prefer  a  pillow  on  her  lap  to  support  the 
tray.     If  she  cannot  sit  up  turn  her  on  her  left  side  and  arrange  the  bedside  table 
within  easy  reach. 
The  tray  cloth  and  napkin  should  be  clean. 
The  sight,  aroma,  and  taste  of  food  will  each  play  an  important  part  in  encouraging 
the  patient  to  eat. 
The  tray  should  be  inviting  with  attractive  color  combinations  of  food. 
Small  servings  encourage  the  patient  to  attempt  eating. 
Hot  dishes  should  be  served  hot  and  cold  dishes  cold. 
Page  56

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  57 
7.  Do  not  ask  the  patient  what  she  would  hke  for  dinner  but  learn  her  likes  and 
dislikes  and  give  them  consideration  in  planning  the  meal. 
8.  Use  a  positive  approach  —  do  not  say  "Would  you  hke  a  glass  of  juice?"  but  rather 
"Here  is  a  glass  of  juice  for  you." 
9.  An  element  of  surprise  such  as  a  flower  on  the  tray,  or  a  favor  on  a  special  holiday 
will  add  interest. 
When  the  patient  cannot  feed  herself: 
1.  Wash  your  hands. 
2.  Allow  plenty  of  time.  Never  appear  in  a  hurry.  If  possible,  sit  down  to  feed  the 
patient.  Give  the  patient  your  full  attention.  Do  not  carry  on  a  conversation 
with  another  person  unless  the  patient  is  included.