[Vol48 | January 1961 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
visiting teacher message leader; Ella O. Davis, Secretary-Treasurer; Ella H. Rindercknecht, First Counselor; Emily Larson, Second Counselor; Anna O. Smith, President. Seated at the table at the right, on the right side, in the rear: members of the stake presidency, Asa L. Beecher and Preston Alder; High Councilman Eyre Turner, advisor to Relief Society. William Jones, stake clerk, is seated at the left rear, of the table on the right. Sister Smith reports: "Since the organization of Mount Logan Stake, we have held an annual Strawberry Festival, honoring all ward officers and class leaders in our stake, with the stake presidency, high council, and adviser to Relief Society, and their wives as special guests. Our board members enjoy the event, and our ward people look forward to this annual affair." Photograph submitted by Marian Bennett LONG BEACH STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR THREE STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCES AND FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, May 17, 1960 Front row, standing (in dark dresses), left to right: Helen Johns, former organist; Marian Bennett, President, Long Beach Stake Relief Society; Luella Barnes, chorister; Theodora Johnson, organist. Second row, twelfth from the left: Mildred Moon, Secretary. Back row, twelfth from the left: Erma Halls, Second Counselor. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 47 Absent when the picture was taken were Maude Rowan, First Counselor, and about twenty other members of the chorus. Sister Bennett reports: 'This outstanding chorus has provided music for three stake quarterly conferences, as well as for many special occasions, including Relief Society Convention, May 17, 1960." CANADIAN MISSION SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT THE ORGANIZATION OF TORONTO STAKE, August 14, 1960 Frances J. Monson, President, Canadian Mission Relief Society, reports: "The photograph pictures the Singing Mothers chorus at the formation of the Toronto Stake. During the conference sessions at the stake organization, there assembled at the OdeonCarlton Theater in Toronto, the largest gathering of Latter-day Saints ever to convene in the province of Ontario. "Under the direction of Irene Palmer, the Singing Mothers of the Kitchener, Hamilton, and Toronto Districts of the Canadian Mission, which, incidentally, became the area comprising the Toronto Stake, presented the beautiful selections "There Is Beauty All Around,' and 'Let Us Oft Speak Kind Words.' In addition to the Singing Mothers from the area mentioned above, a number of Singing Mothers from the branches in other parts of the mission also participated in the event. "The date of the Toronto Stake organization, Sunday, August 14, 1960, will be long remembered as a day of inspiration as the 300th stake in the Church came into being. Elder Mark E. Petersen and Elder Alma Sonne were the General Authorities under whose dirction the organization took place. "The saints of the mission continue to comment relative to the benefits of subscribing to The Relief Society Magazine. The colored covers are delightful, and the information attractively presented in every issue." o~_- Have Courage Catherine B. Bowles When the heart is weary, Dark storm clouds dim the sky, Lift your eyes to heaven, Just know that God is nigh. He lightens every burden; He knows the cross you bear. Look up to the heavens, God will be watching there. sdclscaiicieiiiameeiassimnimmaieicaaensnceeaccialamaiad eee — ae ~ t LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 31—The Second Coming of Christ Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 43:8-35; 45:43-75) For Tuesday, April 4, 1961 Objective: To learn of events associated with the second coming of Christ. Preliminary Events UR attention is directed in this lesson to the need of becoming more fully acquainted with what the revelations of the Lord say regarding the times in which we live; and also of events which are prophesied to occur near the time of the Savior's return to the earth and of his appearance. Section Last year, Lesson 18 (The Relief Society Magazine, August 1959) lncluded as a text, the first seven verses of Section 43 of 'The Doctrine and Covenants in setting forth the important principle that there ls only one man on the earth at a time who has the right by ordination and calling to receive revelation for 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In exercising this right, the President of the Church not only directs his message to the saints but to the world, if necessary. Joseph Smith was the mouthpiece of the Page 48 Lord in the opening of this dispensation of the gospel. (See D & C 21:4-6.) The Lord introduced his volume of scripture, 'The Doctrine and Covenants, by stating that his message was to go to all the world as "the voice of warning" unto all people. His servants were to proclaim this message and, in time, all would hear that message. (See D & C 1:1-7.) In preparation for preaching the gospel, the Lord gave pertinent advice to elders or to the members of the Church. They were instructed:.. When ye are assembled together ye shall instruct and edify each other, that ye may know how to act and direct my church, how to act upon the points of my law and commandments, which I have given (D & C 43:8). By giving words of edification arising out: of their understanding of the gospel, the elders were to become "... Sanctified by that which ye have received, and ye shall bind yourselves to act in all holiness be- LESSON DEPARTMENT fore me" (D & C 43:9). As the result of being so instructed in meetings, and making of the commandments a part of daily living ".. Glory shall be added to the kingdom [Church] which ye have _ received " but negligence in these matters would result in a loss of the blessings which it was the right of the faithful to obtain. (Read the word of the Lord in Verses 11-12.) Joseph Smith Prophesies The saints have always been admonished to uphold the prophet of the Lord for therein lies safety. How closely do we follow the revelations which have come through the Prophet Joseph Smith? For example, do we, as Latter-day Saints, uphold him in what he has given us? Here are some of his prophecies: I will prophesy that the signs of the coming of the Son of Man are already commenced. One pestilence will desolate after another. We shall soon have war and bloodshed. The moon will be turned into blood. I testify of these things, and that the coming of the Son of Man is nigh, even at your doors. If our souls and our bodies are not looking forth for the coming of the Son of Man; and after we are dead, if we are not looking forth, we shall be among those who are calling for the rocks to fall upon them (D. H. C. IIT:390). The coming of the Son of Man never will be — never can be till the judgments spoken of for this hour are poured out: which judgments are commenced (D. H. C. V:336). The hour spoken of in the last prophecy was predicted by John the Revelator as "... The hour of his [God's] judgment..." (Revelation 14:7). "Give As I Have Spoken" As the Lord continued to instruct 49 the elders who would study and take the message of the dispensation to the world in preparation for the Lord's coming, he charged them that they were sent forth to teach the children of men and not to be taught. He had given them information of things to come — of "judgments which are on the land'" (D & C 88:79)—and by the power of his Spirit they were to teach. Since their instructions came from the Giver of truth, who knows all things, they were to sanctify themselves and "... Ye shall be endowed with power, that ye may give even as I have spoken." (See D & C 43:15-16.) But what has the Lord spoken? What has he given which is to be carried by the elders? (Read verses 17-18. ) In continuing his message, the Lord emphasized the need for missionary work to be done among the nations that all who would respond to his call might repent. The missionaries were to accept the call to service lest they be found among those who were negligent in their responsibilities. (See D & C 43: 19-20.) In fact, this dispensation is the last time when the Lord's servants are to call upon the inhabitants of the earth. (See D & C 43:28.) As one reads this revelation, he discovers that the people of the Lord are to make preparations for the great day of the Lord (D & C 43:20-22). The Great Day of the Lord Is Nigh In the first paragraph of the informative explanation of verse 17 from the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (see page 246), the 50 great day of the Lord is indicated as the day when the Lord comes to reign upon the earth. Joseph Smith was informed in many revelations that this was the message of the Lord for this dispensation. When the inhabitants of the earth do not accept the call of the missionaries to repent, the Lord will, as this revelation points out, answer his own question — "What will ye say when the day cometh when the thunders shall utter their voices from the ends of the earth?" The Lord's Message Literal or Figurative? The Lord's message is to be taken literally: It is predicted that calamity and destruction await the inhabitants of the earth if they continue to reject the Gospel and fill the cup of their iniquity. This punishment will come when "the wrath of God shall be poured out upon the wicked without measure." (D & C 1:9.) It will come after the elders of Israel have declared their message to all the world. Then will come the testimony of wrath and indignation; the testimony of earthquakes, the voice of thunders and lightnings and tempests and the waves heaving themselves beyond their bounds. (D & C 88:88-91.) I (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 246.) The Lord Shall Utter His Voice When the judgments of the Lord come as warnings, how will he speak? If we understand this prophecy [Section 43:23], correctly, it means that after the warning voices of the thunders and lightnings and world wars, God will again speak to the children of men. In other words, the gospel sound will be heard. The Lord will explain to men, through His servants, why the calamities have come, viz., to cause men to repent and be saved (v. 24-27) (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 247). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1961 Section 45 — Review and Prelude The purpose of last month's lesson was to give us an insight into some of the signs of the times as those events were foreseen by the Master and told to his disciples in the meridian of times, and then to relate the events of our own dispensation. (See D & C 45:1-42.) From Section 45, beginning with verses 15 through 24, Jesus told his disciples of events to be expected during their own dispensation or generation. From verses 25 through 38 the Lord gave his disciples some signs by which they might know that in the final dispensation of the gospel the "times of the Gentiles" were about to be finished. Should Latter-day Saints look forward to these signs of the times? Hear the word of the Lord: And it shall come to pass that he that feareth me shall be looking forth for the great day of the Lord to come, even for the signs of the coming of the Son of Man (D & C 45:39). This prophecy would suggest that as the Lord's coming nears, there will be some devout souls who will be impressed with the doctrine of the second coming and the millennium, but, in general, the people of the world will not give heed to these Biblical teachings. These devout people:... Shall see signs and wonders, for they shall be shown forth in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath. And they shall behold blood, and fire, and vapors of smoke (D & C 45:40-41). Sign of the Son of Man Among these signs to precede the Lord's coming, is one event which was mentioned by Jesus to his dis- LESSON DEPARTMENT ciples in the meridian of time (Mt. 24:30; Luke 21:25-27), and spoken of again in this dispensation as "a great sign in heaven, and all people shall see it together" (D & C 88:93). What is this sign? Because all people shall see it, does it follow that it will be recognized by the world as a sign indicating that the Lord's coming is near, or will it be explained as another natural phenomenon? Inasmuch as wickedness and unbelief will, in general, reign on the earth near the Lord's coming, the world will not accept this great sign for what it is. Among faithful Latter-day Saints, however, who are looking forward to these signs and to the leadership of the Church for guidance in such matters, they shall know what the sign is and of its meaning. Judah must return, Jerusalem must be rebuilt, and the temple, and water come out from under the temple, and the waters of the Dead Sea be healed. It will take some time to rebuild the walls of the city and the temple, &c.; and all this must be done before the Son of Man will make His appearance. There will be wars and rumors of wars, signs in the heavens above and on the earth beneath, the sun turned into darkness and the moon to blood, earthquakes in divers places, the seas heaving beyond their bounds; then will appear one grand sign of the Son of Man in heaven. But what will the world do? They wall say it is a planet, a comet, &c. But the Son of Man will come as the sign of the coming of the Son of Man, which will be as the light of the morning cometh out of the east (D. H. C. V:337). A Bow in the Heavens? (Not One But Many Signs) It is well to keep in mind that there is no one sign or event which signalizes the nearness of the Lord's second coming. Included among these signs are those which are re- 31 ferred to about the sun, moon, and the stars. (See D & C 45:42.) But there is one sign referred to by the Prophet Joseph Smith, which, by the absence of a natural phenomenon, has considerable importance. Here are the words of the Prophet: I have asked of the Lord concerning His coming; and while asking the Lord, He gave a sign and said, "In the days of Noah I set a bow in the heavens as a sign and token that in any year that the bow should be seen the Lord would not come; but there should be seed time and harvest during that year: but whenever you see the bow withdrawn, it shall be a token that there shall be famine, pestilence, and great distress among the nations, and that the coming of the Messiah is not far distant (D. H. C. VI: 254). First Appearance—to the Saints The Lord's first appearance as part of the second coming will be to his saints. Of such an appearance the Old Testament prophet spoke when he referred to the Lord's suddenly coming to his temple in the day when it could be appropriately asked: "But who may abide the day of his coming? And who shall stand when he appeareth? For he is like a refiner's fire, and like fullers' soap" (Malachi 3:2). Moroni quoted part of this chapter to Joseph Smith when he visited him in 1823. (See Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:36.) It may be concluded that this appearance to the saints may not be generally known, except as the world is informed of it by the saints. As partial fulfillment of this prophecy was the appearance of the Sayior in the Kirtland Temple in 1836. (See D & C 110:1-4.) That the complete fulfillment has reference to the temple in the New Jerusalem, 52 yet to be erected in Jackson County, Missouri, is indicated by reason of the offering to be made by the sons of Levi. (See Malachi 3:3; D & C 84:21-34; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 171-173.) President Brigham Young said that: When Jesus makes his next appearance upon the earth, but few of this Church and kingdom will be prepared to receive him and see him face to face and converse with him; but he will come to his temple (Journal of Discourses 7:142). In the General Conference of April 1898, President Wilford Woodruff told of his first meeting the Prophet Joseph Smith and of the Priesthood assemblage of 1833 when the Prophet prophesied that the saints would be settled in the Rocky Mountains.... When they [the brethren present] got through the Prophet said, "Brethren I have been very much edified and instructed in your testimonies here tonight, but I want to say to you before the Lord, that you know no more concerning the destinies of this Church and kingdom than a babe upon its mother's lap. You don't comprehend it." I was rather surprised. He said "It is only a little handful [sic] of Priesthood you see here tonight, but this Church will fill North and South America — it will fill the world." Among other things he said, "it will fill the Rocky Mountains. There will be tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints who will be gathered in the Rocky Mountains, and there they will open the door for the establishing of the Gospel among the Lamanites, who will receive the Gospel and their endowments and the blessings of God. This people will go into the Rocky Mountains; they will there build temples to the Most High. They will raise up a posterity there, and the Latterday Saints who dwell in these mountains will stand in the flesh until the coming of the Son of Man. The Son of Man will come to them while in the Rocky Mountains." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1961 I name these things because I want to bear testimony before God, angels and men that mine eyes behold the day, and have beheld for the last fifty years of my life, the fulfillment of that prophecy... (Conference Report, Sixty-eighth Annual Conference, April 1898, page 57). Some of the saints by appointment will attend the great council at Adam-ondi-Ahman spoken of by the Prophet Joseph Smith. At that time Adam will deliver up his stewardship to Christ preparatory to the "coming of the Son of Man" in glory. (See Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 157.) Another Appearance—to the Jews Another great appearance of the Master will be at a time when the Jews are gathered to the Holy Land. When this happens the nations will be at war with the Jews, who since 1948 have had their own government in Israel (Palestine), to which the Jews are now gathering. 'The Prophet declares that when sorely besieged and part of Jerusalem is taken (Zechariah 14:1-2), two prophets or witnesses "raised up to the Jewish nation in the last days" will be killed and their dead bodies shall lie in the streets three days and a half. Life will re-enter their bodies, which will ascend into heaven. A great earthquake will cause the Mount of Olives to divide and the earth will tremble. (See Revelation 11:1-13; D & C 77:15.) The Lord will then fight their battle. (See Zechariah 14:3-9.) As the text of our lesson states: And then shall the Jews look upon me and say: What are these wounds in thine hands and in thy feet? Then shall they know that I am the Lord; for I will say unto them: 'These LESSON DEPARTMENT wounds are the wounds with which I was wounded in the house of my friends. I am he who was lifted up. I am Jesus that was crucified. I am the Son of God. And then shall they weep because of their iniquities; then shall they lament because they persecuted their king (D & C 45:51-53). (See also, Zechariah 13:6; 12:8-14; 13:1.) And thus Judah shall be redeemed by acceptance of their Savior Jesus Christ. In order for salvation to be received by any people it will be through baptism by immersion for the remission of sins and the bestowal of the Holy Ghost. Third Appearance— in Power to the World There follows the great and glorious coming of Jesus Christ, who subdues all enemies under his feet, ""and the Lord shall be king over all the earth." 'This is the coming for which the righteous have prayed, that wickedness might be removed from the earth. His coming in power is described in the modern revelations as "an entire separation of the righteous and the wicked" with the wicked being consumed (D & C 63:54; 101:23-24; 133:63- 64). Our lesson text reveals that the nations of the earth will be afraid: For when the Lord shall appear he shall be terrible unto them, that fear may seize upon them, and they shall stand afar off and tremble. And all nations shall be afraid because of the terror of the Lord, and the power of his might. Even so. Amen (D & C 45:74-75)- The New Jerusalem One of the best descriptions of the center place of Zion in the last 53 days when the judgments of the Lord are poured out upon the wicked is found in our text D & C 45:66-71. The Lord has set forth in ancient and modern times that there would be two gathering places in the last days — Palestine (Israel) and America. (See Micah 4:1-2; D & C 133:12-13.) Other Events When the Savior comes, as indicated, a general resurrection will occur, the heathen nations shall be redeemed, and Satan is to be bound as a part of the great millennial reign of Christ. (See D & C 45:54; 43:29-35.) Be Prepared During his mortal ministry, the Lord spoke concerning the preparedness of believers in the last days. The parable of the ten virgins, five of whom were prepared to meet the bridegroom while the remaining five were unprepared and rejected from entrance to the marriage feast, is closed with this application: " Verily I say unto you, [ know you not. Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh (Mt. 25:12-13). Does this parable apply to the Latter-day Saints? Definitely so. Read the words of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith as given in D & C 45:56-59. No one else upon the face of the earth meets the description given in these verses better than do the Latter-day Saints, for "... They have received the truth, and have taken 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1961 the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived " (D&C 45:47). Questions for Discussion 1. What do you believe one of the greatest responsibilities of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to the world? 2. The Lord instructed the saints to uphold the Prophet Joseph Smith in his day. What obligation, if any, does the member of the Church have in sustaining the present prophet? 3. What evidence supports the truth that the judgments spoken of for the last days are literal and not figurative? 4. In view of the great events yet to happen before the second coming of Christ, what need do you think there is for Latter-day Saints to follow the leadership of the Church? 5. Discuss the different phases of the second coming of Christ: (a) to the saints; (b) to the Jews; (c) to the world. 6. Discuss the parable of the ten virgins and its lesson for Latter-day Saints. (siting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 31—"Thou Shalt Not Speak Evil of Thy Neighbor, Nor Do Him Any Harm" (D & C 42:27) Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, April 4, 1961 Objective: We must guard constantly against idle or evil words which might harm or undermine another's character. HIS wise counsel comes from the section of The Doctrine and Covenants which was described by Joseph Smith as embracing the law of the Church. To avoid speaking evil of one's neighbor and to make sure that we do him no harm, is a fundamental law of intelligent human behavior. If, in our personal contacts with others, we want to spread love, friendship, understanding, and good will, we must practice this law. The story is told of a man who had circulated slanderous gossip about a neighbor only to find the story was not true. Conscience stricken, the man sought the advice of a friend to see what could be done to retrieve the evil words he had spoken. His wise friend told him to take a bag filled with goose feathers and to drop a handful of feathers at each door in the village. The man followed this advice and returned to his friend for further instructions. "Now take your bag to each house once more," replied the friend, "and gather up each goose feather you have dropped." The man sadly shook his head and said, "That I cannot do for the wind has scattered them over the countryside." Like these scattered feathers, gossip and unkind words are almost impossible to retrieve. Regardless of how we may try to take them back and, even if we sincerely repent, it may be impossible to undo the harm that has been inflicted. This is true of any type of slanderous or misrepresented statements. Each of us has two words in her LESSON DEPARTMENT vocabulary which can be easily and lightly spoken to spread rumor or a bit of gossip. These two words are "they say." 'These are such innocent words rarely deliberately spoken to do harm, but, when they preface even the most casual remark which might misrepresent or undermine the character of another, they can do damage which may never be fully repaired. Down through the ages, the Lord has been concerned about the human tendency to speak ill of others. Through his prophet Solomon, we are reminded that five of the seven things which the Lord hates are actions associated with speaking evil and doing harm to our neighbors. The five are: a lying tongue An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief, A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren (Proverbs 6:17-19). Jesus added force to this warning when he said:. Every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned (Mt. 12:36-37). He also gave us the key to our personal responsibility in this respect when he said: By)... How canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the beam that is in thine own eye (Luke 6:42). One of our Latter-day Saint hymns also advises us: Should you feel inclined to censure Faults you may in others view, Ask your own heart, ere you venture, If that has not failings, too. ("Should You Feel Inclined to Censure," Hymns, page 159) A much loved woman was once asked how she was able to attract and hold so many true friends. She replied, "I have made it a practice never to speak ill of another. When I see someone make a mistake, I try always to say to myself, had I faced similar circumstances [I might have done worse." The Prophet Joseph Smith in talking to the Relief Society said: don't be limited in your views with regard to your neighbor's virtue... You must enlarge your souls towards each other... You must be long-suffering, and bear with the faults and errors of mankind... Be liberal in your feelings... Let kindness, charity and love crown your works... (D. H. C. IV, pp. 606-607, April 28, 1842). Let us heed this commandment given in The Doctrine and Covenants. Rather than speaking ill, let us oft speak kind words of, and to each other, for "Kind words are sweet tones of the heart." <P Stretchin g Celia Larsen Luce one a tree, the way we stretch is the way we grow. The tree stretches toward the light. What am I stretching toward? Work IT leeting— Caring for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 7 — Feeding the Patient — Oral Medications — Local Application of Heat and Cold Maria Johnson For Tuesday, April 11, 1961 'Objectives: A. To give a few hints that will help in one's efforts to stimulate the sick patient to take the nourishment she needs. B. To stress the serious responsibility in giving medication and learn some important safety measures in handling drugs and giving them by mouth. C. To consider some effects of heat and cold on the body and also measures for their safe application. A. Feeding the Patient EEDING the sick patient is always an important part of medical treatment. 'The doctor will tell you if there is to be any modification of the regular diet, or if the patient is to have a restricted special diet. It is then up to you to see that the patient takes the nourishment prescribed. The patient often has no appetite, or at times is just too tired to make the effort to eat. Here are a few hints that will encourage him to eat: When possible, sit down to feed the patient 1. Before serving the tray, tidy up the room, clear the bedside table or overbed table ready for the tray. Make the patient comfortable, offer bedpan (or urinal), wash her hands. If she can sit up in bed, support her back with pillows and place the overbed table over her lap, or she may prefer a pillow on her lap to support the tray. If she cannot sit up turn her on her left side and arrange the bedside table within easy reach. 2. The tray cloth and napkin should be clean. 3. The sight, aroma, and taste of food will each play an important part in encouraging the patient to eat. 4. The tray should be inviting with attractive color combinations of food. 5. Small servings encourage the patient to attempt eating. 6. Hot dishes should be served hot and cold dishes cold. Page 56 LESSON DEPARTMENT 57 7. Do not ask the patient what she would like for dinner but learn her likes and dislikes and give them consideration in planning the meal. 8. Use a positive approach — do not say "Would you like a glass of juice?"' but rather "Here is a glass of juice for you.' g. An element of surprise such as a flower on the tray, or a favor on a special holiday will add interest. When the patient cannot feed herself: Wash your hands. 2. Allow plenty of time. Never appear in a hurry. If possible, sit down to feed the patient. Give the patient your full attention. Do not carry on a conversation with another person unless the patient is included. 3. It is usually best to place the tray in front of the patient you are feeding. 4. Place food carefully in her mouth so that it does not spill. Give small amounts and wait until the patient swallows before feeding more. Offer different food and liquids as the patient wishes. 5. If the patient cannot raise her head, liquids may be served from a small cream pitcher or a drinking tube. Flexible drinking straws are especially good. If a drinking tube or straw is used, steady it for the patient and do not fill the glass more than half full. It will help if you can turn her head a little to one side, or you can place your hand under the pillow and raise the head a little as the patient drinks from a partly filled cup or through the drinking tube. ~ s B. Oral Medications: The giving of medications is an exacting and serious assignment. Drugs given to a patient may be very beneficial, or they can be very harmful if not given in the correct amount and proper way. It is therefore essential for every mother or person caring for the sick in the home to know and follow the necessary safeguards. One first rule might well be — never give a medication that has not been ordered by a physician. Self-medication is one of the most serious health problems of today. Remember a symptom is not a disease. It is the cause and not the symptom that needs a solution. Treating symptoms gives only temporary relief. 'The cause or trouble back of the symptom is still there. Do not attempt to diagnose your own ills or those of your neighbor, and do not pass pills you have on hand on to your neighbor. Because her symptoms appear to be very much like those you have had, does not mean the cause or diagnosis is the same. Women who are taking tranquilizers or so-called "happy pills," unless ordered by the doctor, are doing themselves great harm. These medications do not cure and should be used only for temporary relief. 'he same symptoms thus treated will return again and again unless the cause is found and corrected. Safety rules and hints for giving drugs by mouth: Keep all drugs out of the reach of children. Wash your hands. Give only those drugs ordered by the physician and follow his instructions as to the amount and time to be given. His orders should be written. Give exact amount and on time. Measurements must be accurate. Read the label for the directions. Never give more than is ordered. A. 58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1961 Pour from the side opposite the label so it will not become soiled. Read the order each time you give a medication. Read the label three times — when you pick up the container, when you pout the medication — and when you return the box or bottle to the shelf. Never give a medication from an unlabeled container or from one whose label cannot be clearly read. G. Never put a liquid medication back in the bottle — discard it if not used. 10. Do not handle pills or tablets with your fingers. Turn them into a small glass or paper container. 'I'his assures cleanliness and makes it easy for the patient to get them back on his tongue to swallow. 11. Most drugs are concentrated and should be taken with water. Most liquids should be diluted and followed with a glass of water. An exception is a cough syrup because you want it to soothe the throat. OO AN Getting children to take a medicine is not always easy. Here are a few hints or tricks that often help: 1. Be positive — slip the medication into the child's mouth in a matter-of-fact way, as if it had not occurred to you that he would not take it. Do not say, "Do you want your medicine?" He may say, "No," then the trouble begins. 2. Try talking about something else when you put the spoon in his mouth. Most children open their mouths automatically like little birds. Always be kind, even in a tussle. 4. If the taste of the medicine is unpleasant, it sometimes helps to disguise it with a food, but you must be careful that he doesn't associate the food with the medicine. A. If given in a juice choose one that the child does not take regularly, i. E. Grape juice or prune juice. If you give a queer taste to his milk or orange juice it may make him suspicious for months. B. 'Tablets that do not dissolve can be crushed to a fine powder and mixed in a good tasting food. Use a very small amount of food as he may decide he doesn't want very much. C. 'Tablets and capsules hard to swallow may be put in something lumpy and sticky, such as banana. Follow the teaspoon quickly with a drink of something he likes. D. Bitter pills can be put in honey, syrup, jam, or applesauce. Ww The older child will, in many cases, enjoy