[Vol48 | January 1961 | Sequence: 32 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far I have the privilege of working as stake theology leader in Minidoka Stake. Each year, in place of Christmas cards, I send to family and friends a mimeographed sheet containing some choice bits of literature. This year, one of the best things I have read is the very timely article in the September issue of The Relief Society Magazine, "Sleep When the Wind Blows," by Mildred B. Eyring. Thanks so much for the inspiration we have received from that article. —Bertha Mae Hansen Rupert, Idaho I would like to tell you how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine kindly gifted me from my cousin Mrs. Mary Easton Cutler, Glendale, California. I have enjoyed all the writing in the Magazines and the community of spirit expressed, and of course, I was particularly pleased with the cover of the September issue — Holyroodhouse, Edinburgh, Scotland. —Jean Watson Falkirk, Scotland I live several miles from the branch where I have membership and seldom get to Relief Society, but I keep up with the lessons and enjoy them very much. I have received inspiration and strength from articles in the Magazine and I read each issue many times. I especially enjoy the beautiful covers, giving us scenes from so many interesting places. —Mrs. Irene Welch Rockville, Missouri I have enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine so much. Many times I have used the thoughts for Primary prayer meeting. It is only through the Church that I could find so much happiness with my husband and six boys. —Mrs. LaRae Robinson Kearns, Utah Page 2 We have so much enjoyed the copies of The Relief Society Magazine given us by the missionaries, and now my thirteenyear-old daughter has finally persuaded us that we need our own subscription. Our whole family were baptized this month, and we need all the inspiration and encouragement that come from reading Church publications, all of which are wonderful. We will be looking forward to receiving our own copy of The Relief Society Magazine. —Mrs. Douglas Schlueter Le Sueur, Minnesota We love to use the recipes published in the Magazine. My Magazine is a great comfort to me, especially to read in the evening. I thank you for all the wonderful stories and poems. —L. Goddard Roseville, California The sisters receiving the gift subscriptions of The Relief Society Magazine here in the Norwegian Mission are overjoyed at the kindness of our sisters in the States. I have been a member of Relief Society since I was fifteen years old, and through the years have learned how wonderful the work really is. I have enjoyed and received much help from the Magazine throughout the years. —Zina R. Engebretsen President Norwegian Mission Relief Society Oslo, Norway Our Relief Society Magazine is the best and most educational one published anywhere. Thanks for its help in trying to live up to a better life. Your regular reader and longtime subscriber, —Mrs. Albert A. Bahr Payette, Idaho I am impressed with your selection of photographs for The Relief Society Magazine — they are excellent. —Robert W. Mix Salt Lake City, Utah