[Vol48 | January 1961 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Blessings in the New Year | Author: General Presidency]
Blessings in the New Year AS a New Year approaches, in addition to silent resolutions one makes for personal improvement during the coming year, it is also a time for an expression of thankfulness and gratitude to the Lord for the innumerable blessings of the past year. At the October General Relief Society Conference, the Brethren who spoke were united in extolling the worth of Relief Society and the need for all Latter-day Saint women to become members. To those who are giving devoted service, there comes a realization that with the service the greatest good comes to the sister for her personal advantage and edification. Her faithful attendance at Relief Society meetings, week after week, increases her understanding of gospel principles which she is taught to apply in her own life and in the lives of her children. She receives counsel which guides her in deciding where her duty lies in a given situation. The rearing of one's family assumes first importance to a Relief Society mother, yet her endowments seem to expand so that she may also give service to Relief Society. Her tender ministrations to the sick and homebound enlarge her soul and bring feelings of personal satisfaction, setting an invaluable example in loving, unselfish service to her children. By fulfilling requests made of Relief Society by the Priesthood, she trains herself in the rendering of obedience. In helping to raise funds to maintain Relief Society as a self-sustaining unit, she is encouraged to be industrious and thrifty. A member, through her training and association in Relief Society, grows in her ability to be a better woman, wife, and mother. As the days, weeks, and months of the New Year roll on, let thanksgiving continually well up in the heart of every Relief Society member, thanking the Lord for the glorious privilege of belonging to and serving in the divinely inspired Relief Society. The General Board extends love, respect, and gratitude, at the beginning of 1961, to every Relief Society member in every country of the world where they are found. The same spirit attends them in their meetings, in their devotions, and in their labors. The same blessings are visited upon the sisters of every land, as they minister according to the grand key words of the Society, "Said Jesus, "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do." May every Relief Society member follow this admonition and find increasing joy in the New Year.