REAL LIFE.

	There lived, in a settlement on the frontier
of Southern Utah, in the year 1872, a family
consisting of a man and his wife and two
children; one a boy of five years, the other a
babe of three months; their home, a rude hut
made of lumber and willows covered with can-
vas, indicated to the passer by they were labor-
ing under the difficulties and deprivations of a
new settlement. It was winter; and the mor-
row would be Christmas Day! The ground
was white with snow, and the few trees in the
garden looked like pyramids of crystal; for na-
ture's misty king had paid them a visit the
night before and scattered his shining pearls
around. Old Sol was smiling, and nature
looked grandly beautiful! but to the woman in
that humble cot everything was dark and
dreary. She was thinking, what had she for
Christmas dinner? Where were the turkey
and other delicacies that should grace the
table? Bread and butter were the only con-
tents of her cupboard. To the mother the
dinner was only of secondary importance; she
thought of the little stockings that should be
hung up that evening, and the presents that
she would like to put in and around them. But
she had no money to buy with, and the coun-
try furnished no such luxuries.
	Their relatives, who lived in the north, had
plenty. Her brother-in-law had gone to Salt
Lake City and he was expected home soon.
Would they send presents by him? A ray of
hope was in that thought, for her friends had
been very kind to her. But would he be
home to-night? She feared not. In the midst
of her cogitations a bright little fellow came
running in.
	"Oh, ma! Santa Claus will be here to-night.
You must hang up my stocking."
	"I am afraid, my boy, Santa Claus will not
visit us; we are too poor."
	"Mean, old thing! not to come because we
're poor; he ought to come all the more. I
know ma! Uncle Ralph's gone to Salt Lake


[Column 1]
City, and grandpa will give Santa Claus money
and send him in uncle's wagon."
	"My son, I fear Uncle Ralph cannot get
here to-night."
	"Don't cry, ma, if the cross, old Santa Claus
does not come to-night he will be better na-
tured by New Year's, and then he will bring
us lots of presents. What a jolly time we will
have! Never mind the stocking ma—here
comes pa!" and away he ran laughing to meet
his father.
	Christmas came and passed as the mother
had predicted, and no Santa Claus; though a
ray of hope had entered her heart from the in-
nocent prattle of her little son, and she looked
forward with some degree of pleasure for the
coming of New Year's Eve. The week drag-
ged slowly by, but at last the welcome sound
of Uncle Ralph's "get up George!" to his team
was heard. The mother's heart leapt for joy,
for it was New Year's Eve. The joyous voice
of her boy was soon heard.
	"Now, ma, here is Uncle Ralph! Come and
see if he has brought Santa Claus."
	"My child, your uncle is weary and will
want his supper; we will not trouble him yet."
	"Oh, ma! just ask him if he has brought
Santa Claus. Of course Santa Claus will no
come until I am in bed, only let me know."
	"I think your uncle has brought him, but
here is your father! we will have our supper
first, for it is getting late."
	The little fellow could scarcely eat his sup-
per he was so excited.
	Said he, "I wonder what I shall have? I
hope it will be a horse and wagon, and marbles;
how I would like a drum! but I suppose Santa
Claus will think I am not big enough. I want
lots of candy. Pa likes candy, don't you pa?
What will baby have? A rattle I suppose; he
is too little for anything else." And he drew
himself up with an air of importance. "A nice
dress for you ma. Oh, dear! I wonder what
else."
	The mother listened with pleasure to the
prattle of her little one, hoping yet fearing,
while the father looked smilingly on and said
but little.
	"Pa, why don't you talk, don't you think
grandpa has sent Santa Claus?"
	"I hope, my son, he has, for ma's sake and
your's. You must not be disapointed if he
has not."
	"Oh, but I shall pa! for they've got lots of
things up there and we have so little here."
	"I think he has, my son, so go to bed and
dream of the horse and wagon."
	"Yes, my boy," said the mother, "go to bed
and ma will hang up your stocking; I think it
will be full in the morning.
	After the mother had put her son to bed
she crossed the garden to the house of her
brother-in-law. A rap on the door, and at the
well-known sound of the "come in" of a country
place, she entered.
	"How do you do Ralph? I hope you have
had a pleasant journey."
	"Not very pleasant, Mary, but my health is
very good."
	"Did you see my father or brothers?
	"Well, I did see your father, I met him in
the street and had a little chat with him; I did
not see any of the rest, I was so busy I did not
call on them; I wished to get home before the
cold weather set in. What going? Oh, no, sit
down and have a chat by this warm fire.
New Year's to-morrow, Mary; a merry time."
	"Not to-night, Ralph, I must go home to the
children. Good night."
	The mother got away as quick as possible for
fear she would break down. She could scarce-
ly walk home her disapointment was so great.
As she entered her husband's face changed to
one of pity, for he saw how greatly she was dis-
appointed, but he wisely said nothing. She
threw herself into a chair and burst into tears.

[Column 2]
	"They have sent us nothing; not even a lit-
tle candy for the children. If they had sent
us some tea and sugar and some candy for the
children I would have been satisfied. Ralph
and Eliza, the cruel things, sat there and
laughed. They knew what I came for, but I
could not ask them. Selfish things! I expect
they have plenty for themselves."
	At this outburst of feeling the husband said;
	"Do not take on so, Mary, Ralph may have
something for you—you say you did not ask
him."
	"No, I felt too proud to ask him. If he had
brought anything he would have said. My
friends do not care for me; they have plenty,
and so have yours. They are all alike—sel-
fish."
	"Hush, Mary, your father and brothers
have been very kind to you. We will not al-
ways be as we are now, this place is but newly
settled."
	"Yes, John, I know that to my cost. Why
were we sent here? nobody cares for us, no, not
even the Lord."
	"Mary, why do you talk so? you are general-
ly so full of hope and thankfulness; you are
not yourself to-night."
	"Myself? no! look at that little stocking
hanging by the chimney; see that sweet face so
smiling and hopeful. I think of the morning,
when the little fellow will leap from his bed
with a joyous shout to find his stocking, empty
—empty. How can we bear the look of that
disappointed face? I do not care so much for
myself it is for my boy."
	"I think, Mary, you are mistaken; I feel
Ralph has something for you."
	"At that moment there was a tap on the door
and a laughing face peeped in, while a cheery
voice siad, "John, come and help me lift a box
out of my wagon."
	"The night is cold, Ralph, wait until morn-
ing, and I will help you unload."
	"I do not know about waiting till morning,
the box is marked M. E. L., I think Mary will
want to see her goodies."
	It was like an electric shock to the mother.
She started to her feet and exclaimed, "Oh,
Ralph! how could you be so cruel as not to
tell me?"
	"You did not ask me, Mary, so I thought I
would give you a surprise."
	"I forgive you, Ralph, but it was a very
cruel one."
	In a few minutes the men returned with a
box weighing nearly one hundred and fifty
pounds; at sight of so large a box the mother's
emotions were so great she could hardly con-
trol herself; she managed to articulate, "Come
in, Ralph, and see what my friends have sent
us."
	"No, thank you, Mary, you shall have all
the benefit of the surprise yourself, without
anyone else to share your pleasure. I wish
you much joy of your New Year's gift, and
may this be but a foretaste of the good things
to come. As it is but a short time till morn-
ing I will be a little hasty, and wish you a
happy and prosperous new year. Good
night."
	And away he tripped with a merry whistle,
feeling satisfied that he had been the means of
taking a load from that mother's heart, and of
sending a ray of sunshine into that humble
abode.
	"Now, Mary, what do you think of the good-
ness of the Lord and the kindness of your re-
latives?"
	"Say no more, John. I am ashamed of my
weakness; I feel that I have been almost wicked
in my repinings; I acknowledge my fault to
you, and will humbly ask the Lord's forgiv-
ness."
	"Well, well, Mary, do not feel so bad, it was
natural that you would be bitterly disappoint-
ed. Now for the axe; I know you will not

[Column 3]
sleep until your box is opened; I do not think
I would, and of course we must fill the child-
ren's stockings. How pleased the dear boy
will be when he finds that Santa Claus has
been here."
	One—two strokes—there, it is open. "Look
first, Mary, I will shut my eyes."
	"Oh, John, see! how many things. A nice
dress for me, two hoods and sacques for baby,
how pretty! dresses and shoes for baby, hat,
suit and shoes for Johnney, and here is the horse
and wagon and marbles he wished for, and a
small bucket of candy set off with the glorious
flag of our country. How the boy will shout
when he sees them. Here is a trumpet and
rattle for baby; look, John! here is tea, sugar
and rice, cans of salmon, lobster and oysters,
raisins, currants and candied peel, with a few
green apples; these are for mince pies; no tur-
key, but a ham instead; jars of preserve, a bot-
tle of brandy and one of whiskey—for sick-
ness I suppose. Spices—ha! ha! as sure as I
live a bologne sausage as long as my arm! oh,
dear! I do not know how they got so many
things in the box. Do not let us take any
more out or we will not know where to put
them."
	"Mary, I feel quite slighted; I do not see
anything for me."
	"Nonsense, John, what does a great fellow
like you want of anything; besides, they knew
you would get most of the good things, and to
prove it I will open this can of lobsters and
make you a glass of brandy and water, that
you may drink their health, and mine, too, if
you like, for I feel very well, thank you."
	The mother had very little sleep that night.
Her heart was full of gratitude to her Heaven-
ly Father for his goodness, and she humbly
asked His forgiveness for her want of faith in
Him. She thought of the kindness of her
friends, and prayed that the Lord might bless
them through the coming year. Then her
thoughts wandered to her sleeping boy; how he
would clap his hands and shout for joy when
he saw his presents; and again she thanked the
Lord for his goodness.
	Day was beginning to break, when a little
head was raised from the pillow, and a hushed
voice said;
	"Ma, are you awake?"
	"Yes, my son."
	"Did Santa Claus come? Did you see him?
May I get up and see?"
	Before his ma could answer he espied the
full stockings with the other things hanging
around them; he sprang from his bed with a
joyous shout.
	"Oh, ma, pa, look! get up and see what lots
of things Santa Claus has brought us. I told
you he would be better natured by New
Year's."
	The tears came to the mother's eyes, and she
thought how little those living in affluence re-
alize the pleasure they could give their friends,
who were not so favored, by imparting to them
a little of their substance.
	Since that time the settlement has gradually
developed; other children have been added to
that little family; the little stockings have
been yearly hung up, and Santa Claus has
never failed to pay his accustomed visit.
