LION HOUSE DAYS.

'Tis Christmas Eve, and a freezing night,
As I sit by the grate a lonesome wight,
When up from the coals springs an odd figure,
Than my fore finger not much bigger;
He smiles at my start of deep surprise,
Answering then my questioning eyes—
"Oh" he says, "I'm the Christmas elf,
Have I never been seen by yourself
On a misty, frosty Christmas morning?"
Up to my knee he springs, all scorning
The start I give of cowardly fear
To have so strange a being so near,
And pointing into the grate says, "look!"
Down fall the coals like leaves of a book;
A picture forms as they fall aside
Of a hall both long, and low and wide,
With rows of doors now opened all,
To let the children into the hall;
I hear the echo of shout and call,
As they greet each other with merry glee;
"Christmas gift," and I smile when I see
The girls hold plaster-of-paris dolls,
The boys are tossing their leather balls;
I turn to the elf upon my knee
To ask a question—"look, now!" says he;
A fall of the coals has changed the view;
The opening doors are there, it is true,
But the hall is high and light as well,
And down the stairs is rushing pell mell
A crowd of children, their gifts to find,
Bestowed by father so nobly kind.

The older girls scream with delight
As they find a stove polished so bright,
With tiny kettles, very complete,
A cast-iron stove, small, handy and neat;
The little girls reach the height of their wishes
Finding for each a new set of dishes.
What dinners were planned with dishes and stoves,
Invitations are issued, one might say in droves;
The boys are happy with drums, swords and skates,
With books, and marbles, and whips, and slates;
Such greetings, such fun, such laughter, such noise,
Sure never was heard from girls or from boys.
I try to peep into one of the rooms,
And down fall the coals, and up there looms
A room so long, with tables all spread
And children around them, and up at the head
Sits a man with a noble majestic air,
Keen, kind blue eyes and bright brown hair,
And he smiles when he sees his children's joy,
While he prays that Satan may none destroy.

The turkey, and chicken, and pumpkin pies
Load down the tables, and the children's eyes
Are silently picking out that piece of cake
Which, when the time comes, they will take.
The coals are slowly falling apart,
I look at the elf with throbbing heart,
But he points down to the grate, and so
I look at the scenes spread out below.
They pass along, and each one leaves
A throbbing pain as of one who grieves;
In every scene is the dusky hall,
The opening doors and the merry call,
And in the toes of each stocking stout
The package of candies measured out,
The mothers look with happy gaze
Upon their children's merry plays,
And into every changing view
The father's presence goes through and through,
Until, at last, the fire dies down;
From my knee jumps the elf with a frown;
Up the chimney on a spark flies he,
And cries, as he goes, "you'll never be
More blest and happy than when a child."
I roused myself, and almost smiled,
To think the scenes had such a seeming
Of very truth, when I'd been dreaming.
