MRS. MARY A. LIVERMORE.

	In Melrose, one of the most beautiful of the
suburbs of Boston, Mrs. Livermore lives.
Within and without, a home beautiful with
works of art, with books, with gifts of love,
and souvenirs of foreign travel; with its views
of the clear lake to whose edge the lawn slopes
down; embowered in trees through which you
catch the outlines of purple hills, and more
beautiful in its family relations of love and
sweetness. Just opposite, across the street,
lives Mrs. Livermore's only married daughter,
whose husband is the principal of an impor-
tant Boston school. The pretty grandchilden
run in and out. Seperated by a heavy por-
tiere from her chamber is Mrs. Livermore's
study. On two sides books line the wall from
floor to ceiling. A revolving bookcase that
holds nearly three hundred volumes more
stands near the desk. The most perfect order
prevails. Nothing short of this could prevent
Mrs. Livermore from being utterly swamped
and submerged under the never-ending tide of
accumulation. A two days' absence will de-
posit seventy-five letters on her desk, a large
number of which must pass under her person-
al direction, if not claiming her personal an-
swer. Nothing less than her wonderful direc-
tive power would keep this accumulating ava-
lanche within bounds. Order is heaven's first
law. And it must be the first law of the life
that would enter here into the conditions of
that higher existence, for it is this which holds
the secret of Mary Livermore's youth, her un-
tiring activity, her conservation of energy. It
is that she is living this spiritual life amid
earthly conditions. It is the divine energy that
animates her, the force of a celestial gravita-
tion, the action of spiritual laws. With change
of word we find the secret of her force to be
told by Tennyson in his lines:
	"Her strength is as the strength of ten,
	Because her heart is pure."
	She is the most deeply religious, and yet
tenderly human, of any woman I ever knew.
Her nature is attuned to the keys of celestial
harmonies.
	LILIAN WHITING.
Bostoa Evening Traveler.


"Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony have ar-
rived safely in New, York."
	"Mrs. Grace Beebe, aged 101 years, died at
Plainville Mass., on Monday. Her father built
the old frigate Constitution; and her brother
draughted the vessel's lines."
	"It was a striking coincidence that the New
Northwest' the first journal to advocate equal
rights for all on the Northwest coast, was also
the first to publish to the world the news of the
great equal suffrage victory in Washington—a
result for which it has labored untiringly for
nearly thirteen years."


