LETTER ONE.

	BERNE, Switzerland, Nov. 6, 1883.
MY DEAR SISTER MELLIE:
	The scene that perhaps will interest you most
that I have seen is the beautiful country o


France. No wonder there are artists there, one
would think such a country could produce no-
thing else. We left the little steamer after a
tiresome yet rather amusing night on the Eng-
lish Channel, and took cars at Dieppe for Paris.
What I saw of Dieppe was smoky, dirty and
ugly, and my introduction in to France was any
thing but pleasant, but the town was not many
yards behind when my eyes rested on the lovli-
est scene, I thought, that I had ever beheld, but
the farther we went the more beautiful the
landscape became. I thought with the French
oh! there is nothing like "Ma Belle France."
Miles and miles of magnificent forests, all so
beautifully tinted with the autumn frosts.
Everything was gay and bright, and the
flowers thickly strewn all over the valley. I was
sorry there was no one to tell me what valley it
was, but I am pretty positive it was the valley
of the Seine and Marne, for after leaving the
one river we followed the other through to Par-
is. Since having seen Switzerland I have
learned it (France) was not the most picturesque
region, but abounded in those quiet charms
which grow upon the sympathetic traveler.
'Twas Sunday morning and the sun shone
brightly, the air was full of birds singing their
praises, and I thought that all France seemed a
grand conservatory of art and music. At one
o'clock we passed through Rouen, which is a
very beautiful place, and at three o'clock we
reached Paris. No pen can describe the loveliness
of Paris. I cast aside the soul-delight the pass-
ing panorama had given me and threw myself
wholly into the enjoyment of this most wonder-
ful city. I could only be there four hours and
in that time I "took in" the Grand Opera House
and Hotel, the shops in the Palais Royal, Les
Champs Ellyses, and then just stared at every-
thing. The buildings everywhere strnck me with
wonder and admiration; every few minutes we
would reach a restaurant where in front were a
number of little marble tables and chairs, and
peeple sat there drinking wine. They were only
wine tables. I saw more beautiful women and
elegant dresses in the few hours spent in the
streets there than I ever saw in all my life be-
fore. Those large crowned hats I wrote to Lou
about from New York are much worn, both in
London and Paris. In London the ladies do
their hair very low, in Paris very high, with
short curls in their necks. The afternoon was
lovely, and being on the principal promenades I
thought I saw the styles pretty well. I didn't
take time for dinner, though I had had nothing
to eat all day, for I wanted to see as much as
possible. Switzerland is the most beautiful, in
a natural point, of anything I have yet seen.
			Your loving sister,
