NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Her Majesty has outlived nearly all the men
who surrounded her throne when she was first
placed upon it. Only one man of the Cabinet
of 1837 remains. Earl Grey was the Viscount
Howick who as Secretary for War took the
oath at Kensington Palace. The name of
Lord Melbourne suggests almost another age.
Lord Palmerston, Lord John Russell, and Sir
John Cam Hobhouse have long passed away.
Lord Lansdown's great grandson inherits Bos-
wood. We believe that there are only three
members of the present Parliament who were
in the Parliament of 1837. These are Mr.
Gladstone, Mr. Christopher Talbot, and Mr. C.
P. Villiers."
	"The Queen has had eight Prime Ministers.
They are all gone save Mr. Gladstone. It is
not wonderful that Her Majesty sometimes
speaks as though she found herself in a world
she does not know. With her strong attach-
ment to old friends, her dislike of new faces,
and the difficulty with which she can reconcile
herself to new acquaintances—with new inter-
ests occupying men's minds in society, art, and
literature, it is no marvel that the Queen, hav-


ing spent a life for twenty-two years almost of
seclusion, hardly understands us or where we
stand. Yet to-day there is no man or woman
in England who would change her for another
monarch."

	Sometime since we published something about
Mrs. Clara T. Leonard and Governor Butler's
opinion about a woman not being a person.
The "Daily Evening Traveler" of Nov. 24,
published in Boston, Mass. contains the fol-
lowing, besides the statement in detail which is
too lengthy for our columns:
	"The full bench of the Supreme Court sent
to the Governor and Council yesterday its de-
cision upon the point raised as to whether Mrs.
Clara T. Leonard is lawfully a member of the
Board of Health, Lunacy and Charity. The
Governor declared her place vacant on the
ground that she was not a person, and made
an appointment to fill the vacancy which he
held existed. The Council declined to accept
the Governor's interpretation of the law, and
an appeal was made to the court, which now
decides that Mrs. Leonard is a "person" under
the statutes, and that she is as fully and as le-
gally a member of the board as any other one
of the eight who are her colleagues."


