LETTER TWO.

	ZURICH, Nov. 17th, 1888.
MY DEAR MOTHER:
	Switzerland delights me greatly, it is so beau-
tiful; nature has indeed favored her. The whole
country from one extent to the other abounds
in picturesque scenes. The walks are most
charming, winding as they do, now through a
grand old forest, then opening into a beautiful
green, country winding by the river side, climb-
ing over the hills; just such walks as would fill
romantic souls with poetry and song. The for-
ests, the streams, the lakes, the hills covered
with vineyards, all are lovely, but dearest of all
to me, are the grand old mountains towering in-
to the clouds. Their snow-covered peaks remind
me of home, where the Wasatch Mountains
tower towards heaven, and whose hills
and peaks I have always loved.
	Every thing I see amuses and charms me,


[Column 1]

and especially have I been delighted with Zu
rich. It is the finest city in Switzerland, and
has a life and stir about it not found in many of
the Swiss cities. The farther East one goes
there is quite a perceptible change in the habits
and ways of the people, they seem to have ad-
vanced more with the age. As we traveled
from Berne to Zarich I busied myself watching
the passing scenes, and only think, mother, at
last I have seen a castle—two of'them—at Burg-
dorf and at Aareburg. Both are beautifully sit-
uated on the top of a hill with a river winding
right beneath and overlooking a most lovely
country. When we children used to read our
fairy books and nursery rhymes, we often
wondered if we should ever see a castle, and we
used to fancy ourselves dwelling in one. A
sight of one is sufficient to dispel all desire of
living therein, for they are certainly gloomy
enough to please a Blue Beard, and they look
like prisons where the sunshine of happiness
never enters.
		BERNE, NOV. 21st. 1883.
	Dear mother, I thought it best not to finish
my letter until I had seen more of Zurich and
could tell you something of that beautiful city,
and now I have seen so much I scarcely know
where to begin; but first, when we reached
Berne yesterday afternoon we found your welcome
letter of the 3rd inst. awaiting us, and oh, we
were both so pleased with all the good news you
had to tell, and so glad that our baby and you
all were so well. I though much of you all on
father's birthday and would have liked so much
to have been there to wish him many happy re-
turns. I felt it all the same and prayed for his
happiness and long life. Every one on the ship
who knew me knew it was his birthday, and
knew, too, how it was being celebrated, and
some laughed at me for talking so much about
it, it was the one day they all thought me
home-sick. But I know you want to hear about
our journey so I return to Zurich. The first
thing that I saw was, of course, the railroad sta-
tion, and a good-description of this wonld fill
pages in itself, I cannot even attempt it,
but suffice it to say it is the most elegant sta-
tion I have yet seen, surpasses even the Gare de
Lyon at Paris. From this station is the most
beautiful street of the city, and as fine a street
as can be found anywhere. It is quite wide, and
the buildings on it are most elegant; it extends
from the station at one end to a little park at
the other, which opens on to Lake Zurich, at
the end of this street is a large bridge, just erec-
ted, which spans the arm of the lake. There
are several fine bridges crossing here, for the
lake runs right through the centre of the city,
and the two principal streets are the first on
either side of the stream, running parallel with
it. From this last bridge there is to be a beau-
tiful drive along the banks of the river,
down one side and up the other. It, with the
bridge, will cost twenty million francs. On this
beautiful street, the Bahnhof St., is situated the
large and handsome store of Henerberg, the fa-
mous silk manufacturer, we walked all around
the place and gazed in every window. Such beau-
tiful things there were—silks in every shade and
shape, from the crawling worm up to the finest
lace and brocade. One window particularly in-
teresting was where the process of silk manu-
facture was displayed. There were the worms,
the cocoons, the first spun silk, the raw silk, the
fine silk, and the pretty butterflies. I wonder if
this beautiful dress is the reward this homely
little worm receives for his industry. We didn't
only walk around this wonderful place, but we
walked in finally. There was one window filled
with lace work, and I thought of Mell, how she
would enjoy looking at that. The lovliest hon-
iton point I ever saw. Speaking of the silk in-

[Column 2]

dustry makes me think of our own feeble at-
tempts at home in this line. There are some
sisters in our Church in Zurich who have al-
ways worked in this industry, and who are very
poor, would it not be to the advantage of both if
those working so hard to promote this industry
at home would emigrate some of these sisters. I
dined with one who spools the silk, she has such
a lovely machine, can wind fourteen spools at
once; there are several in the branch who work
with the silk in different ways. One young sis-
ter is a hand weaver and makes silk handker-
chiefs, etc.	*	*	*	*	*
	It would fast suit you the way the houses are
built and the grounds laid out. It is not even and
particular, but the vines and trees and flowers
are just beautiful and there is a wildness about it
which just makes it more romantic and delightful
than these little flower-bordered lawns could
possibly do. There is a very fine university
here, but they tell me at these universities the
chief honor is not to learn the sciences, etc., but
to carry a scarred face, and I readily believe it
when I see the students. They all dress fine
and wear the queerest kind of hats, signifying
that they belong to a certain club, and they all
have the most dreadful scars on their faces, the
more scars they have the prouder they feel.
	We left Zurich Tuesday morning and at noon
reached Winterthur, a very old city, noted per-
haps more for age than anything else. In the
upper part of the city are the ruins of an old
Roman fort, built in the time of Ceaser and
called by him Winterdorum.
	We spent a few hours in this place very pleas-
antly, met some of our Church members, such
nice people and they are all so glad to see us
and treat us so kindly.
	We left Winterthur in the afternoon for
Shafthausen. This was a beautiful ride, and for
a long way was right along the banks of the
river Rhine. We reached this place at six
o'clock and went to see a Bro. Haage, a very
good man, he has quite a nice home here and a
lovely family. We stayed here over night, a
meeting was held in the evening where I met
almost all the members here, they are a very
nice, cheerful people and I very much enjoy
meeting with them. They sing beautifully, and
seem to have such a good spirit within them.
We left Shafthausen early in the morning
wishing to walk to the Rhine Falls before tak-
ing the train. It was abont an hour's walk and
we quite enjoyed it, for the scene after leaving
the narrow streets was very beautiful. This is
also a very old city, having been begun in the
ninth century. Wine making and agriculture
are the chief industries, though there are also
large watch factories here. At last we reached
the falls. At Niagara one is struck dumb with
wonder, but here one sees just enough grandeur
and beauty to loosen his tongue and he can rave
over the foaming waters to his heart's content.
The scene is very impressive, for the water
gushes over the rocks, through them and under
them, and then right upon the side at the top
of the precipice stands an old ruined castle.
Some parts of it have been fitted up for tourists
during the summer months. Here was a sta-
tion where we took train for Basel, we rode for
miles along the banks of the Rhine with the
vine-covered hills of Switzerland on one side
and the broad country of Germany on the other.
We were soon on the German side, and every
now and then along the road we passed a cruci-
fix where the passers by stop and cross them-
selves, the women bow and the men uncover
their heads.
	The head dress the women wear is so funny.
It is a wide black ribbon fashioned into a little
bonnet and then long black ribbons hanging
down to the bottom of their dresses. This is Ba-

[Column 3]

den style. We reached Basel early in the after
noon and after John Q. had attended to his bus-
iness affairs there, we walked around the city a
little. 'Tis a large town, has some fine hotels
and buildings, but is not a pleasant place, at
least so I thought. I never saw so many
Churches anywhere in my life. The bridges
here are very fine, in fact I believe Switzerland
delights more in bridges than anything else.
The Rhine runs right through Basel and there
are some elegant bridges spanning it. We
walked across it once or twice and I thought
what a lovely river the Rhine was, no wonder
it is so famous, and yet I have seen so little of
it. How grand it must be to go all along its
banks and view its ruined castles, its ever
changing scenes. The following morning we
left Basel for Berne, stopping only once at Lies-
thal for an hour where we visited the brother
of Bro. Goss and another family.
	I hope you are not worn out with this long
letter. I know you want to know where I go
and what I see, and have tried to give you a
simple if not a well written account. John Q.
joins me in love to you all, our mother, fathers,
sisters, brothers, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews,
friends and precious little baby.
	Your loving daughter,
