SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 15, 1883.


[Column 1]
VARIOUS METHODS.
	One can scarcely item[-]ze the bills that are be-
ing introduced into Congress to settle the "Mor-
mon" question. And this is not all, the Presi-
dent of the United States, the Chief Executive
of this great and free Republic, recommends
Congress to annul the organic act from which
Utah derived her power of government, and
place her people under a national commission,
to be appointed by him and confirmed by
the Senate. In regard to this matter it is dif-
ficult to express one's self, such an idea is so far
removed from the spirit of the Constitution, or
even the letter thereof. Of all the several bills,
that of Senator Lapham is the most ridiculous.
It is sufficient to convince those who know, how
little people outside really do know of the actual
circumstances of the "Mormons." To pass laws
to destroy statutes that never had an existence
is an inconsistency, that is new enough to be
original. Senator Lapham has an original
method of solving the problem, but unfortu-
nately for him there is no material to work up-
on, as there never was any law passed in the
Utah Courts, or the Legislature of the Territory,
which recognized plural marriage, consequently
there is no such statute to annul. Congress is
the only authority on this subject, except the
Ecclesiastical authority. Congress has twice de-
cided to legitimatize the children born in plural
marriage, once in 1862 and again in 1882, this is
more of an acknowedgement of the validity of
this order of marriage than the Legislature or
statutes of Utah have ever demonstrated. In
reference to these matters one can but use the
proverb so apropos to the matter. "Man pro-
pose but God disposes." All nations are in the
hands of Him who turns and overturns king-
doms and powers at his will. It is not only that
Congress is besieged to "wipe out the Mor-
mons," but ministers and editors are entreated
to lend their aid to accomplish the work. What
do these people fear? Mormonism is not popu-
lar, the doctrine of plural marriage is offensive,
therefore the United States has no occasion to
fear that it will find a great number of converts.
There is too much sacrifice to be made, it re-
quires laying all upon the altar of one's faith.
A complete consecration. There are only a few
people in the world who are willing to take up-
on themselves such sacred obligations. It
seems as though the world are more "scared"
of "Mormonism" than "Mormons" are of the
unjust legislation and persecution waged against
them and their institutions.
	Religious papers advocating the sword to be
used "to cut the cancer out" seems incredible,
and yet it is true in many instances. Is this ac-
cording to the teachings of our Savior, the
great Master, the examplar for all mankind? In
the editorial columns of one of the oldest and

[Column 2]
most influential newspapers published in Bos-
ton, we find the following extreme language
usd:
	"The Salt Lake City of the ancient world
was Sodom.	*	*	The evaporations of
the Dead Sea steam up to the heights of Ju-
dah."
	After a great deal of very severe language the
editor says: "Has it any rights that a United
States government is bound to respect?	*
Is not the conviction now forced upon a fair
scrutiny that this sore is a cancer, and that the
only healing is to be found in cutting it out?"
etc , etc. This Doctor of Divinity is probably
not a Doctor of Medicine, or he would know that
cancers very frequently break out again after
having been removed by the knife, and were it
possible to kill all "Mormons," and so destroy
every root and fibre of "the cancer," the Gos-
pel would assuredly spring up elsewhere, for it
is not possible for man to cope with the Al-
mighty. Not only that but ere they had half
accomplished such a bloody purpose fear would
take hold upon them. How can such men as
the Rev. De Witt Talmage, Lucian E. Smith,
D. D. and Joseph E. Foster, D. D., advocate
the shedding of blood? Ministers of the Gospel
of peace. Heralds of light to a benighted
world. How pure in heart these men must be!
How can they live in New York and Boston !
But this pious editor and minister says, "We are
not sure that the people of the United States
would not uphold and approve the action of the
President who should take this matter into his
own hands, even if he had to stretch a point to
do it. They hope for very little from Congress.
Millions of them fear to see Congress assemble,
and rejoice when it adjourns. But were there
some way in which a mighty officer and captain
ike the President could gird on the sword and
make a descent on that house of ill-fame, there
would be glory in it, more than that of a third
term, for the President who undertook it—provi-
ded it be done soon." And so on and so on and a
great deal more, closing by saying, "Thirty days
of Oliver Cromwell would suffice for an honora-
ble and healthy end to the thing."
	Is this "religion pure and undefiled?" Mr.
Editor, consider a moment,—what, do the
women and children and the "Mormon" people
think when they read such sentiments as these?
The Scriptures which you profess to take for
your standard expressly say "Thou shalt not
kill." It was written by the finger of God on
the tables of stone. How do you reconcile your
views to the teachings of the Savior whom you
profess to believe in? "Vengeance is mine; I will
repay, saith the Lord." He has also said, "Fear
not him who can only destroy the body, but
fear Him who can cast both soul and body into
hell." Evidently these infuriated ministers do
not know what they are talking of, but it is time
they stopped to reflect, or if it is war to the death
let them take the advice a Mormon mother
gives to Talmage, "Head the army" them-
selves, and not ask President Arthur to do bat-
tle for them. Alas, "how have the mighty fal-
ten!"
	We as a people are in the hands of an alwise
and all-merciful Father, who will not suffer a
sparrow to fall without His notice, and though
"the heathen rage and the people imagine a
vain thing," yet will He remember those who
serve Him and keep His commandments and
the way of their escape will be sure.


