DEAR EDITOR:
	I felt very indignant when I read the "reliable
information" that Mrs. Newman had given the
ladies of Cincinnati concerning the Mormons in
their domestic relations. How could a woman
who had been to Utah and seen our comforta-
ble homes, our pleasant surroundings and our
people, and talked with them as she said she had
tell such wicked falsehoods? It was all as false
as false could be. But the ladies who heard her
no doubt swallowed it as a sweet morsel. They
would rather hear stories like that about Utah
than hear the truth. "A generous contribution
was given at the close of the service," which
will likely go into the lecturer's pocket instead
of being used to benefit the "poor, degraded
Mormons." I felt that if I were near her I
would give her "a piece of my mind," but not
having that opportunity I take this privilege of
speaking in my own defense through the EXPO-
NENT.
	I am one of those Mormon women that she
so wilfully misrepresented, and I know of no
"chains of bitter degradation and bondage." I
entered into plural marriage of my own free
will, because I knew it was right. I believed
that God had a right to reveal His laws in this
our day, and because I believed that I had the,
right to obey those laws and thereby show my
faith by my works. I chose to obey God rather
than Congress. I have never regretted the step
I took. God has blessed me for honoring that
law; I am satisfied, contented, and happy in my
home. I love my husband, his family and my
children. I do not have to "take liquor or opi-
um" to keep me from going mad, or to drown
any feelings of bitterness within my heart. I
have no time or disposition to indulge in bitter
feelngs towards any one. I am earnestly en-
gaged attending to my own affairs, working out
my own salvation. The Spirit of God makes
me happy. I am not in need of the sympathy
or the aid of our Christian friends, but I am
proud of being a "plural Mormon wife." Talk
about women being slaves in bondage, and hav-
ing to sustain that order of marriage to please
the men, is worse than nonesense. It is absurd.
If the women did not know for themselves that
that principle was true, or if they did not wish
to embrace plural marriage, where is the man or


[Column 1]
set of men who could compel them to do so? I
am surprised that a woman should have such a
limited knowledge of the nature and disposition
of her sex as Mrs. Newman shows by her re-
marks. Women know as well as men that the
Gospel of Jesus Christ is true, and having this
knowledge they are just as anxious to practice
the principles of righteousness as the men are.
Women very frequently decline to marry good,
steady, single young men and marry one who
has a family. Why? Because they believe
they have the right to marry the man of their
choice, and if they choose to marry a man who
already has a wife they think it is nobody's bus-
iness but their own. If Mrs. Newman calls it
prostitution for a man to live with his wives,
support them and educate their children; what
does she call that which the world practice,
where men only acknowledge one wife, but
have mistresses in secret, and do not own
their children, but cast them off. She
didn't say anything about the thousands
of women who are betrayed every year in
the world, where the one wife system prevails.
Nor did she speak of the multitude of children
who are fatherless, made so by the corruption
of their parents, who throng the streets of the
great cities of the East. How much "love, ten-
derness and care" is lavished upon those ragged,
half-starved little waifs who get a living by
stealing, begging, or by any way except hones-
ty.
	We believe in obeying the first great com-
mand that God gave to man, multiply and re-
plenish the earth, and we, unlike some Christian
ladies, do not employ any unlawful means to
prevent having offspring. We look upon child-
ren as a great blessing, as a heritage from God,
and no Latter-day Saint is satisfied to live in a
childless home. We are taught that children
come from the presence of God our Father, and
that it is a privilege to have a body and gain an
experience on the earth. We also believe that
their spirits will return to God if they keep His
laws while on the earth. Believing this, how is
it reasonable to say that we have no affection
for our children. They are the light and joy of
the household, they are the future hope of Isra-
el. They are all well provided for with every
thing that love can suggest. Loving parents
and teachers spare no pains to instil into their
youthful minds principles that if practiced will
make them good men and women in this life
and exalt them in the presence of God. I know
that this is true. I have been born and raised
in this Church. I can testify that I have never
been taught to do wrong, but all my instruc-
tions have been to be honest, truthful, virtuous,
kind and obedient, to treat others as I would
like to be treated. When children are disobedi-
ent and take a course that leads them into sin,
parents know no keener sorrow.
	Mrs. Newman says hundreds of child-
ren attend the Christian schools, and
hundreds more would apostatize did they
dare and a shelter were provided. Dear
me! Who has provided a shelter for those who
have already dared to apostatize? Do they not
remain in our midst without being molested?
Let our Christian friends provide a shelter and
give those who are afraid an opportunity to flee
from us, for if there are any of that class among
us they are welcome to "flee," for we want no
"cowards in our band who will their colors fly.,'
The Latter-day Saints know no fear, only the
fear of displeasing God. They are like Lord
Nelson was when a child, when his grandmoth-
er told him she thought fear would drive him
home he said, "What is fear, I never saw it."
We know it is false. Our Heavenly Father
knows it is false. He knows our out-goings,

[Column 2]
our in-comings, and the desires of our hearts; He
hears our prayers and knows our hopes. He has
preserved us in the past; He will do so in the
future. He also knows what our enemies are
doing. He knows their plans and secret combi-
nations, and He will reward them according to
their deeds of darkness, and some day they will
find themselves outside the gates of the "city,"
among those who "love and make a lie;" while
the despised and persecuted Mormons will have
an inherltance with the apostles and patriarchs
of old, with Jesus Christ as their King.
