DEAR SISTERS:
	It is with pleasure that I sit down to write a
few lines for the paper. "When I am dictated
by the Holy Spirit to write, then is the time
that I feel that I want to respond to the dicta-
tions of that spirit. If we try to do whatever
we are called upon by that spirit we will find
that we will be greatly benefited by so doing.
One may ask, "How can we know when it is
the Spirit of our Heavenly Father, or whether
it is from the evil one?" We read in the thirty-
fifth section of the old edition of the Doctrine
and Covenants, how to distinguish these differ-
ent promptings. If it is the Spirit of our
Heavenly Father that dictates us to do certain
things we will feel a burning influence within
our bosom, but if it is from the evil one we
will have no such feelings.		*	*	*
Now, if there are any of us that may have a
manifestation given unto us that we cannot un-
derstand who it is from, the only true way that
I have found out is by bowing myself before
our Heavenly Father, and humbly and sincere-
ly ask if it was He that dictated me, or if it
was from another source, and I have never
rose from my knees without He made it known
unto me whether it was right or not; but, sisters,
we must remember that faith is required in or-
der to have our prayers answered. We have
got to put just as much confidence in Him
when we ask for anything as if He were stand-
ing before us, and we were personally talking
to Him or our prayers will not be answered;
for remember, our guardian angel is always
around us, who knows our thoughts, whether
we are sincere or not.	*	*	Yet some
of us have more faith than others, but we know
that there are different gifts given unto the
Church, some have one gift; and some have an-
other; so if we have the gift of faith let us ex-
ercise it in doing some good, though we may
feel that all the good we can do will not
amount to anything, but remember that,

"little drops of water,
	little grains of sand,
Makes the mighty ocean
	And the pleasant land.

[Column 2]
And perhaps with our efforts and little deeds,
though they may seem to us very small, may
be the means of doing a great work in years
to come; so don't let us think there is not any-
thing to do, but let us feel there is no end of
doing good, and that we cannot do enough,
and let us spend our days worthy of imitation,
for we all know that our mission on earth is
short, and what is the use of us struggling to
obtain a lot of earthly riches, when we know
that we have got to go and leave it all behind?
"We ought to rather store up our riches in. hea-
ven where we will be sure to obtain them again
for there neither thieves nor robbers can take
them from us. These are the kind of riches we
ought to seek after, and not after things that
will cause us to lose faith in our Heavenly
Father. Before closing my remarks I feel like
bearing my testimony to the truth of this work;
I know for myself that this is the Church of
God we are engaged in, for I have many testi--
monies to bear.
	I will now testify to one, and that is the gift
of healing. In my childhood days I was tak-
en sick with a fever, which fell upon one of my
limbs and left a running sore, which continued
to run until I was getting up into my teens, and
then I began to think of the promises that had
been made to me many a time by the servants
of God, and especially of the time when I re
ceived the ordinances of the Lord's house, for
they promised me there that I should be made
whole and become healthy and strong; and as I
sat pondering over these things I knelt down
and asked my Heavenly Father in mighty
faith to heal me from my afflictions as had been
promised, and that I might obtain all blessings
that were in store for me. I rose from my
knees, took the oil, anointed the afflicted part
and drest it up again for a week; I then un-
dressed it, it looked much better. I then
prayed and anointed it again, and never looked
at it again for two weeks; when I looked at it
the next time it was perfectly whole, and has
ever since remained so. Now, sisters, is this
notastroug testimony to me that God hears
our prayers? If we only had faith there would
be no end of receiving blessings from our Hea-
venly Father. Ever praying for the Associa-
tion I remain your sister in the Gospel,
					ELIZABETH SMITH.
	Manuscript Paper, Young Ladies Herald of
Union, Spanish Fork, Nov. 14th, 1883.


