OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Goshen, Utah County, September 24th, 1828,
of typhoid fever, Ann, the beloved wife of Thomas
odds, and daughter of Peter and Jane Richardson. De-
ceased was born in Eggleston, County of Durham,
England, March 20th, 1829.
	She in an early day obeyed the law af Sarah, and was
faithful to her covenants, and died as she had lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT to the memory of our be-
loved sister, Ann Dodds.


Whereas, The Lord has called from our midst by the
hand of death onr beloved sister.
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our be-
loved sister the loss of an able and efficient teacher in
the Relief Society of Goshen Ward.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past faithful labors and
great devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and
highest respect of us all.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the be.
reaved husband and family, in the loss of a kind wife
and affectionate mother.
	Resolved; That these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy of the same be presented to
the bereaved family; also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication.
	ELLISON GOURLEY,
	LOUISA TAYLOR,
	MARY JOHNSON,
		Committee.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Mary
Thomas, who departed this life July 14th, 1883, in
Goshen, Utah County,
	Whereas, An alwise Providence has called from our
midst by the hand of death our beloved sister.
	Resolved, That we recognize, in the death of our sis-
ter, the loss of a worthy member and efficient teacher
of the Relief Society of Goshen Ward.
	Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors as
worthy the fellowship and highest respect of us all.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of a kind wife and affectionate
mother.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon our
records, and that a copy of the same be presented to
the bereaved family, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, for
publication.	ELLISON GOURLEY,
			LOUISA TAYLOR,
			MARY JOHNSON,
				Committee.


