BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There are days in the year that seem to ar-
rest us in our busy life of toil and every day
enjoyment; at these times, we seem to resolutely
catch time by the forelock, and say to him,
stay with us a few moments, and help us to
take a look back on the road we have traveled,
and time seems to accede to our entreaty and
at once takes us up into a high mountain, from
which we stand and gaze down the indistinct
and interminable road we have traveled; we go
back as far as the eye can take us—and
memory rises up and shows us our nursery
home where as little children we were fostered
and cared for, and every want supplied by
our loving parents. Those beautiful parents,
how they stand out in bold relief in that dim
vista as the Lares and Penates of that beloved
home; how much we remember, and yet there
seems a veil of mist overshadowing that cradle
of childhood.
	Memory brings us higher up the vista—
we are taking the leap into the grand arena of
life! we become actors on the broad stage of
terra firma; we voluntarily take a part—we
throw off the domino, in which we acted out
our childhood under tutors and governors, now
we take a character, and in that we intend to
walk the stage of life; there is much that en-
chants and dazzles our brain, the tinsel of the
stage is fascinating, we look not beyond, the
arena seems all for us, and those associated
with us; the audience seem smiling approving-
ly upon our debut, and we are elated, for the
springs of life are bright and sparkling—we

[Column 2]
array ourselves in our character role, and we
walk the stage with an elastic step, there is a
concord of sweet sounds about our ears, and
we feel inspired to carry out the role we have
undertaken. We labor to propel our destiny,
and we dream of eclat and applause crowning
our exertions. The scenes are shifting—the
glory and the beauty of the opening ones are
changed—dark and gloomy ones take posses-
sion, but we plod on. Alas! the poetry of the
stage has vanished, but we work on determined
not to be discouraged; we bid adieu to the poet-
ry, except a small portion which we lovingly
lay up in the depths of our soul, that we be
not quite starved. We then heroically take
up the prose of life; we find it is something
more substantial, more nutritious, more suit-
able for the wear and tear of this work-a-day
world.
	We have now attained the maturity of
character and reputation; we make a Home,
we people it with beings of our own creation,
we have dropt all play-acting, we are now sur-
rounded by the stern, matter of fact realities
of the world's wide stage! we have passed the
rocks and shoals that all human beings have to
pass through, more or less, we have been per-
mitted to recognize the hand of God, we real-
ize that He has been the Grand Organizer and
Governor of our lives.
	This day of Christmas also teaches us to re-
member the Savior of the world, the Redeem-
er of the human family; Him whose name we
have taken upon ourselves, and whose service
we rejoice in, and are trying to magnify our
calling. Let us then be cheerful, let us rejoice,
let us even be merry, but let us remember to
temper all our moods with dignity and sobrie-
ty, that were we summoned to quit this stage of
life in the midst of our rejoicing, we might
calmly and smilingly quit these sublunary
scenes for the grand empyreum of our Father
who art in Heaven, so that when the final cur-
tain falls on our earthly pilgrimage we may
hear the plaudits, not of an earthly audience,
but the chant of myriad voices singing Wel-
come the new inhabitant of Heaven, enter in-
to the Joy of thy Lord.


