BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Wednesday, 4th, we remained in our tents.
Early that morning the band came and played
for the benefit of President Young and breth-
ren.  In the afternoon, they having received
an invitation from the people of Farmington
to play, went after obtaining the mind of the
President, where John Kay, our favorite song-
ster, sang one of his best, "The sea, the sea."
They were treated with the greatest respect
and kindness, and given an excellent supper at
the Galt House, and afterwards escorted a mile
towards the camp. My husband and brother
William accompanied the band, and according
to the former record they "returned to camp
about 9 p.m. This day Bishop Miller left camp
and went ahead to seek a new place. Brother
Kimball's family and our own all continue
well, hearty and in good spirits."
	The following little incident occurred in the
early part of our journey. Two or more of
father's young wives were walking behind the
wagons when night overtook them and the
wagons being out of sight, and, not daring to
proceed alone, they stopped at a farm house
where they were kept all night and treated to
the best the house afforded. The nicest room
they had—belonging to their only son—was
given them to sleep in, and after breakfast he
escorted them to the camp, which though but
a little distance off was hidden under a high
hill to the left of the road. Father had cau-
tioned his wives and folks about lingering be-
hind, and this had a tendency to make them re-
member it.
	My husband wrote, "Thursday, 4th, struck
our tents about ten a.m.—had not proceeded
more than ten or fifteen rods when the axletree
of one of father's wagons was broken, in conse-
quence had to leave it behind and put the load
on our other wagons. I went two miles ahead
on horseback to a little place called Bonaparte
—at this place we crossed the Des Moines
River and camped after going a short distance,
having made only three miles this day. I then
proceeded two miles further to Bro. Kimball's 
encampment, who with several others, includ-
ing the artillery, had stopt on the open prai-
rie."
	"Friday, 6th. After having struck our tents
*	*	*	Bro. Kimball and family
went on, I waited till our folks came up and
proceeded about six miles to Indian Creek,
where we arrived at two p.m., and took up our
quarters for the night—they having made
eight miles to-day—very bad muddy going." 
	"Saturday, 7th. Before starting this morn-
ing a man living in the neighborhood, four
miles south of Keosauqua, by the name of
Cochrun, came to our camp and laid claim to a
yoke of father's oxen, saying that they had
strayed or been stolen from him three years


[Column 1]
p﻿reviously. To avoid disturbance father paid
him $30 in gold, and about ten o'clock a.m.
struck our tents and traveled about nine miles
and encamped on a small creek by the side of
the road."
	Towards morning father was sent for to
return to Bishop Whitney's camp. Next
day Bro. Markham arrived, bringing the news
of the birth of a son to my father's wife, Sarah
Ann. This was the 8th day of March, and
the child was called David, as also the valley
where he was born. Next day towards even-
ing father and President Young went to Bish-
op Whitney's camp and blessed the child. The
same evening Bro. Wm. Clayton with the
band came up and camped with us, for which
we were all glad, as they entertained us every
evening when in camp. This place where we
were camped was called Richard's Point, on
the borders of a small wood. The majority of
the camp of Israel were there, where we were
obliged to remain over a week in consequence
of stormy weather.
	My husband wrote.—"The number of souls
in Zion's camp, this side of the Mississippi, at
the present time somewhat exceeds 2,000.
Wm. Kimball conveyed Sarah Ann in an easy
carriage to the camp this day. Before leaving
the Valley of David father (Bishop Whitney)
had the good luck to exchange a span of horses
for two yoke of oxen and thirty bushels of
corn, with a man living in the vicinity."
	The band having received an invitation from
the people of Keosauqua to come and play,
they went on the 10th and 11th, and the Court
House was crowded with an appreciative audi-
ence. They received an invitation to repeat
their concert the next evening, which they did,
were also invited by the citizens to take a ride
on a "light boat," and as they neared the land-
ing a cannon was fired twice. At this place
they cleared about $30. Concerning that place
Horace says in his journal: "This place, the
county seat of Van Buren County, lies about
ten miles east of our present encampment on
the Des Moines. Wednesday, the 11th, in ac-
cordance with the invitation the band went
again to Keosauqua, Wm. and myself accom-
panied them."
	"Thursday, 12th. Very stormy—the rain
has fallen almost incessantly since Tuesday
last. To-day received a letter from Watter-
man Phelps, stating the general news in Nau-
voo, among which was that Wm. Smith and
George A. Adams had arrived there and were
about to organize the church—that John E.
Page and Rufus Beach had joined the Strang-
ites—that Luke Johnson was again received
into the church on Sunday, the 8th—that Col.
Kane was there and was to leave on the 10th
inst—that the ice had got out of the river and
the steamboats were running, etc., etc."
	This was quite a newsy letter, and all these
things were interesting to a people who were
traveling away from their homes, never more to
behold them. But there was no mourning nor
lamentations, we felt too glad to have made our
escape. And the first evening after the warm
sun had dried the earth, the young people
were out dancing by moonlight—determined
upon being happy, or at least to snatch all the
pleasant moments and enjoy them as they came
along. Some of the camp were already pros-
trated with chills and fever in consequence of
want and exposure. It now rained almost in-
cessantly, and Bishop Whitney's daughter, Sar-
ah Ann, was in a critical state part of the time
while there. And Mother Whitney, who
stayed with her daughter, and, like all the rest
was exposed to cold and wet, took the rheuma-
tism, and it settled in her left wrist, which had
been broken the previous winter by jumping
from a buggy when the horse became frigh-
tened one evening as she was returning from
the Temple. She could not be convinced that
it was broken, although the Bishop's father,

[Column 2]
who was a doctor, told her that it was broken,
and that she ought to have a doctor to set it,
he being then too old to attend to it himself.
Her hand and arm commenced to wither away,
and one day while on the journey Father John
Smith called to her tent to see her, and notic-
ing her hand and wrist enquired into the cause
and seemed to feel greatly interested in her be-
half. He called for a bottle of consecrated oil
and administered it with prayer and mighty
faith, and he prophesied that flesh should come
upon that arm and hand, which was literally
fulfilled, though the wrist was out of place.
	Horace continues.—"Richard's Point, where
we are now located, is situated on Chequest
Prairie, and here we are likely to remain for
some time at least, as the roads are almost im-
passable.
	"Friday 13th. The clouds having cleared
away this morning the weather assumes a more
smiling aspect, which, after three days inces-
sant rain, is very acceptable.
	"Saturday 14th. O. P. Rockwell and Ed-
win Cutler started on horseback for Nauvoo to
carry letters. Lyman Whitney and myself
took a short excursion into the country for the
purpose of trading for oxen—returned, hav-
ing partially effected an exchange."
	The weather having continued favorable
there was a fair prospect of our being able to
resume our journey in a day or two, but on the
17th it commenced clouding up, and before
midnight began a slow, drizzly rain, which
continued the remainder of the night, so we re-
mained there till the 19th. The quadrille band
went to Keosauqua on the same day by invita-
tion, to hold another concert. The weather
continued showery till the evening of the 18th,
when it cleared off pleasant. Horace wrote
the same day. "The corpse of Bro. Edwin
Little was brought into camp and interred to-
day. He was taken sick here a few days ago,
and was conveyed into the country in order to
have skillful treatment and to be shielded from
the inclemency of the weather; but notwith-
standing all was done for his relief that human
aid could afford, he died to-day while in the
wagon on the way to the camp. His disease
was the quick consumption. He appeared to
be reconciled to his death, and died in the full
faith of the Gospel."
	"Thursday 19th. This morning about
eleven o'clock struck our tents and proceeded
on our journey.	*	*	The weather
fine, though rather cool—the roads quite
smooth—traveled about twelve miles and
pitched our tents on a small creek which also
bears the name of Chequest, on the land of a
widow—name unknown. We are now travel-
ing through Davis County, which joins Van
Buran County. Brother Kimball's family
and ours are well—Sarah Ann gaining
rapidly."
	"Friday 20th. Our route being chiefly on
the prairie the roads were very bad; crossed
Fox River to-day, traveled fourteen miles and
encamped about four p.m. in the edge of a
small piece of timber—very poor muddy place,
being destitute of a name, consequently gave it
one, viz., Slough of Discontent. The prairie
through which we have been traveling to-day,
and shall for a day or two, is called the "New
Purchase," on the "Fox Divide."
	"Saturday 21st. Started at half past nine,
proceeded eleven miles and encamped on the
edge of the timber about four miles from the
River Chariton." That evening the band over-
took us, and before retiring they played a few
tunes before President Young's tent and
father's. Oh, what dismal days those were!
And the next day was Sunday—cloudy and
disagreeable—as we started in the morning
and crossed the bottom, which intervened be-
tween us and the Chariton River. We had
considerable difficulty in crossing that stream,
on account of the steepness of the descent on

[Column 3]
its banks. After crossing there was a very
bad hill to ascend, and they were obliged to
double teams in both places, besides the assist-
ance of a number of men to hold back, and
push up hill. This labor consumed the great-
er part of the day. We encamped on the top
of the hill in a small piece of timber. How
fresh in my mind are some of those tedions
days of rain, sleet and mud, and sometimes
hunger, for already were our rations poor and
pinched, it being the intention at that time to
cross over the Rocky Mountains the same year.
One important event transpired that dismal
morning, while we were crossing the bottom
between our camping ground and Chariton
River, which was indelibly written upon my
memory. We passed the wagon of Sister Zina
D. H. Young, which had halted upon
the east bank, where she had a beauti-
ful son born, and he was named Chariton. I
have never met that son nor heard his name
without its reminding me of Chariton River,
and the circumstances attending our sojourn
there. The following, written by Sister Zina,
is worthy of a place in our history:
	"I had been told in the temple that I should
acknowledge God even in a miracle in my de-
liverance in woman's hour of trouble, which
honr had now come. We had traveled one
morning abour five miles, when I called for a
halt in our march. There was but one person
with me—Mother Lyman, the aunt of George
A. Smith; and there, on the bank of the Chari-
ton, I was delivered of a fine son. On the
morning of the 23rd Mother Lyman gave me
a cup of coffee and a biscuit. What a luxury
for special remembrance! Occasionally the
wagon had to be stopped, that I might take
breath. Thus I journeyed on. But I did not
mind the hardship of my situation, for my life
had been preserved, and my babe seemed so
beautiful."

To be Continued.


