"Come and see me soon Mrs. Brown, I am so lonely," she said as I drove away.
"I really should go now, but I think the snow would go over the tops of my galoshes," and Emily slowly backed the car back into the road again, and went home. Promising herself that she would go to Selma's the next time she passed the lane.
But the next time she was in a hurry and merely looked toward the little house and said, "I soon must get out and call on Selma, I'll make a special trip tomorrow."
For two weeks all of Emily's tomorrows were full to the brim with activity. Jennie and June, the twins, came home from school the following day with headaches. It was characteristic of the twins, that one could not have even a headache but the other shared it. The headaches developed into the "Flu," and the twins were put to bed upstairs. In spite of Emily's precautions, the next morning little Anne Spencer, who with Mamma Anne, John's favorite sister, was visiting in the home, awoke with a "running nose," and by evening both she and Mamma Anne, were tucked in bed in the quiet room, and Emily was kept busy, upstairs and down, with hot water bottles, lemonade, and the proverbial bottle of castor oil.
Little Anne was unusually fretful because of her strange surroundings and Emily's head would be ready to burst, when evening came and she would settle herself for just a cat nap only to be awakened by a call from one of the sick rooms. Good, patient John cooked meals, washed dishes, mopped floors, and cared for three-year-old Margie like a hero; and after what seemed an age to them both, trips to the sick rooms grew less frequent and one by one the ill ones came hollow-
626
eyed and shaky, to the dining room for their meals and eventually the routine adjusted itself and "home," as John described it, "was hitting on all four cylinders again."
One evening as Emily settled herself, with her sewing basket to catch up with her darning, John came in with the local paper and offered to read the "items" while she darned. The first in the column ran, "It is reported that Mrs. Olaf Oleson is ill."
Again Emily saw the lonely look in Selma's eyes and remembered her promise. Aloud she said, "I must run out and see Selma?perhaps I can go tomorrow. I wonder what's the matter with her?"
John's deep tones ran on, but Emily heard no more "items." Her thoughts were going over the three years since Selma had come into their village as the wife of the queer little Swedish, Olaf Oleson. Everyone had wondered at his making such a "catch," as Selma was educated, had traveled much with a former husband, and was rather pretty with her blue eyes, and yellow hair. Because of traveling so much she had formed but few friendships, and she was so eager to be friendly with the women of the village, but they, in their hurry and interest in their own affairs, had been slow in extending their friendship, and few took the trouble to call on her. She was disappointed, but hid it and when asked to join their sewing club, gladly and eagerly went to every meeting. Always the women were polite to her and chatted with her amiably enough, but Selma could never feel herself one of them. Emily was sure of this as she had watched the expression on Selma's face at their club. It seemed as if she were just outside the circle. She would listen
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to their gay banter, with a wistful look in her eyes, knowing that she was an outsider.
Having no children, Selma and Olaf devoted their time to their five hundred chickens and six cows, caring for them most carefully. They read much and looked longingly across the fields toward the village. There was scarcely a home that Selma had not entered, to do an act of kindness. Having had some training as a nurse, when she heard of illness she went without waiting to be called, and with her capable hands, smoothed the pillows, bathed the hot faces of the sufferers, and always in her broken English gave them a cheerful word. The people had not sensed that she wanted to do it because she wanted some one to love, and insisted upon paying her in "cold money." They appreciated her but had not made her understand it, and never returned a visit.
Emily and John were quite guilty also. Selma came to them when John was ill, bringing a dainty lunch and her usual cheerful smile.
"Are you going to darn all night?" John asked finally.
"No, dear, I'm just through. John, can you spare time to take me out to see Selma Oleson tomorrow?"
The next morning Emily was busily piling up the dishes, when Mamma Anne came into the dining room, holding several yards of pink and white dotted voile in her hands.
"You know Emily," she began, "I can't sew a stitch and I think those little dresses of Margie's are so pretty. I just wondered if I could get you to make a couple for little Anne from this," and she held out the voile.
Remembering her visit to Selma,
PROCRASTINATION
Emily hesitated. "Is it much of a job, Emily?" Anne asked. "I wish you could start on them this afternoon. I had a note from Herbert and he wants us to come home the end of the week."
After an early dinner, Emily spread the dainty cloth on the dining room table and fitted the pattern to it. "These will be lovely dresses, Anne," she said. "We will need some lace for the necks and frill around the sleeves?"
The ring of the telephone interrupted her. She turned from the instrument with a troubled face, and went quickly to the kitchen door, and called to John who, with his axe over his shoulder, was going toward the wood pile.
"John, Mrs. Crandall just called to see if you would take Selma Oleson to Brighton to the hospital. She must have an operation tonight, and Olaf is waiting at Crandalls to see if you can go."
Without a moment's hesitation John answered, "Tell them I'll be there in an hour," and he added to Emily, "I'll get some wood chopped and feed the stock; I can milk when I get back."
Emily reported the message and again took up her scissors as the telephone buzzed again.
"Emily," came Mrs. Crandall's voice over the wire," Olaf says Selma wondered if you could come and help her get ready to go to the hospital? I'd go myself but Ruth came home from school sick and I can't leave her."
"Yes, Mrs. Crandall, I'll come with John."
In less than an hour Emily entered the "little house in the middle of the field," but it was not the pleasant, neighborly call that she had planned for so long. Selma's
627
home which she had kept so orderly, hoping for a visit from some of the women, was upset and littered. A basket of clothes that had been dampened and dried out again stood in a corner. Soiled bed linen lay in a heap on a chair. On a table near her bed was an untidy array of bottles and dishes in which Olaf had brought her food. Everything showed the lack of a woman's hand.
Emily's eyes blurred as she hurriedly found things and packed them in a bag, and laid out the clothes for Selma to wear. John and Olaf made a bed of pillows and quilts in the car, and carefully placed Selma upon them.
"Aren't you going, too," asked Emily, wide-eyed with amazement as Olaf made no offer to enter the car.
"Nope, I just can't leave these chickens and the cows," answered Olaf as he awkwardly took Selma's small hand in his large one, and with a quiver in his voice, said, "Well, good luck to you," and Selma answered, "Take good care of yourself, Olaf, and don't neglect the chickens."
So they left the little home?not a kiss nor a caress, but the bravest of smiles. At the half-mile turn John looked back and Olaf was still standing at the gate looking after the car.
Across the thirty miles of flat country to Brighton, Emily's mind was busy formulating plans for nice things for Selma when she returned from the hospital. She would make her know that they, all loved her and were sorry they had been thoughtless. She would call a meeting of the sewing club, and they would clean Selma's house. They would also finish that friendship quilt and have it on her bed when she returned.
At the hospital door they were
628
met by two white-capped nurses and Selma was soon comfortably in bed awaiting Doctor Bronson, and it was time for Emily and John to leave. Emily bent over the bed and kissed Selma's forehead. "We will be anxious to hear from you, Selma, and when you come home we will do lots of nice things together."
Selma's eyes glistened with happy tears and she smiled at Emily as the nurse urged her toward the door.
Early the next morning Emily's telephone rang, and she was surprised to hear the crisp voice of Doctor Bronson.
"Mrs. Oleson asked me to call you and tell you of her condition, Mrs. Brown," he said. "Her appendix was ruptured and she is very ill. Being a nurse she understands just how serious that is and wants you to get word to Olaf."
Emily could scarcely work all day. She had never before realized that she really loved Selma Oleson. Surely, big, strong Selma wouldn't die. Dozens of people recovered
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
now-a-days from a ruptured appendix. Doctors could do such wonderful things nowadays. So it was a great shock to Emily that evening when Mrs. Crandall called her and told her that Selma had passed away.
"And do you know," said Mrs. Crandall, "the last thing she said to Olaf, was, 'Take good care of yourself, Olaf, and don't neglect the chickens'."
Emily hung up the receiver and turned to John, her eyes overflowing with tears. "She hadn't anything but Olaf and the chickens to love," she sobbed. "We wouldn't let her love us. How selfish we have all been. She hungered for so long and we didn't realize it until now?and now it is too late. Poor Selma! I wanted her to know it would all be different."
John held her close in his arms and quoted softly the lines of a poem?
"It isn't the things we do, dear, But the things we leave undone? That give us a bit of a heart ache At the setting of the sun. The tender word forgotten The letter we did not write, The flowers that we might have sent, Are our haunting ghosts at night."