644
Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon
NATURE?a stylist: In November the trees' green dresses become red and brown and gray. Fluffy clouds trim the blue sky. The green sea has ermine ruffles.
MRS. FLORENCE K. THACKER, an attorney of Indianapolis, has launched a movement for one million married working women to combat any attempt to drive them out of industry. "Women fought valiantly for suffrage, but to vote where you had no right to work would be a sorry travesty," said Mrs. Thacker.
MISS MARY ANDERSON, director of the woman's bureau of the U. S. Department of labor, says wages have been cut before women are being forced to the lowest level of all.
AMELIA EARHART PUTNAM with a delegation of the woman's party recently placed before President Hoover a plea for an amendment giving women equal rights with men throughout the United States.
MISS RUTH KENYON, of Nebraska, first woman rural mail carrier in the United States after thirty years of service was retired, having reached the age limit.
MISS CARONDELET B. PALM, railroad clerk for 50 years, was retired at the age of seventy, though still able and willing to carry on.
MRS. ANGELINA D. MOLDRUP, age ninety-one, of California, in September became a citizen of the United States in order to vote in the coming election.
MRS. ALMEDA McCLELLAN, one hundred and one years of age, of Utah, was recently awarded a certificate by the General Federation of Women's Clubs as one of the seven oldest mothers in the United States, still bright and active.
A modern philosopher says: "You are as young as your mind is. Age is a matter of brain, not of arteries or muscles." A statement proven by the foregoing paragraphs.
ELLEN BROWNING SCRIPPS, woman journalist, recently bequeathed $2,000,000 to be divided among eleven educational institutions in Ohio and California.
DR. SADIE MYERS SHELTON of Utah has published a book on psychology, "How to Develop Your Personality," considered valuable for student and teacher. She is one of the few women listed in the volume of "American Men of Science."
DR. JOAN MACDONALD, daughter of the British prime minister, was recently married to Dr. Alastair McKimon.
