Notes to the Field
IT has always been a pleasure for the Relief Society to cooperate with the American Red Cross. We hope that this fine spirit will continue to exist between these organizations. In many of the counties the great national organization is able to contact the local citizens of our States only through Relief Society women.
At the present time the Relief Society stake and ward presidents are in many cases asked to assume the responsibility of distributing the cotton goods which is coming through the Red Cross to the people. We are very happy to have our women render this type of service, but we suggest to them that in assuming it they request of American Red Cross very full instructions as to the manner in which the distribution of goods is to be made. Also in this respect that the Relief Society officers make very careful record of all the articles of clothing made from this yardage, as the Red Cross intends to keep very accurate check of the yardage distributed and all the articles made. We would not have our Relief Society women fail in this important detail of the work.
It is a very great blessing to people in need to have these goods made available for their use, but at the same time a very careful record must be made, and the thought kept constantly in mind, that these goods are only for those who are in great need. If people who do not actually require this relief take it, it means that some who need it very desperately will be overlooked, as there is not nearly so much of the cotton goods to be distributed as was at first expected.
We are very sure that our Relief Society women will accept the responsibility for the yardage and the making of the articles of clothing with their usual fine spirit of service, and if they understand that a report is required we are sure they will be most accurate in keeping it.
Theological References
The following questions have been received from several teachers of the Lesson Department.
To which History of the Church do the references in the lessons refer?
Answer: To the history written by Joseph Smith and published by the Church under the Editorship of Elder B. H. Roberts.
Is it necessary that teachers and members have access to the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary?
The answer is no. On the other hand, this work is a valuable source of reference and will serve an excellent purpose for all of those who have access to it. In view of the fact that reference material is exceedingly difficult to obtain by many classes, an effort has been made in the preparation of the lessons to reduce the necessity for outside reading as far as possible. As a result, the lessons themselves are greatly enriched by quotations from various sources. It would be well, however, if every class could be provided with a copy of the History of the Church, Volume One.
Your Brother in the Gospel of Christ.
Frederick J. Pack.
Relief Society Conference
By Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THE semi-annual Relief Society Conference was held October 6, 1932, with President Louise Y. Robison presiding. Three sessions were held?a general and stake officers' meeting, and two general sessions.
At the officers' meeting, held in the Auditorium, Bishop's Building, at 10 A. M., 81 stakes and 6 missions were represented. There were present 21 General Board Members; 408 stake and mission officers, including stake presidents, 55; counselors, 84; secretary-treasurers, 34; other board members, 230; mission presidents, 5. Ushers were furnished by the Liberty and Salt Lake Stakes.
The general sessions were held in the Assembly Hall, Temple Block, at 2 and 7:30 P. M. A program of interesting and timely numbers was ably presented. The attendance at all the sessions was most gratifying under the present conditions.
Special mention should be made of the very delightful musical numbers, which added much enjoyment to the conference. Contralto solo, Mrs. Annette Richardson Dinwoody; Pioneer Stake Chorus, and the beautiful solo, by Mrs. Inez Robinson Preece. The congregational singing was led by General Board Member, Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal.
Officers' Meeting
PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON
WE are so happy to meet you dear sisters, here this morning. We have visited more than half the stakes within the last six weeks, and when we see the beautiful work you are doing, we are proud to think we can associate with such women. Personally I feel sorry that we cannot hear from every one of you splendid stake presidents. You have so much in store for us if we could only have time to hear from you. It would help lift the burdens and solve the problems of all of us.
Several of our Mission Presidents are here this morning. They are faithful, fine women. It would be a comfort to you mothers, if you have sons and daughters in the mission field, to know how these mothers of the mission take care of your sons and daughters, just as if they were their own. It is most beautiful. We would like to hear from all these mission presidents who are carrying on our work among the sisters who do not know us, and who have to uphold our standards as well as to teach them. The time may come when we can have all of this done. This morning we are limited as to time, and just want to greet you with love in our hearts, and with expressions of appreciation for the things that you do. You can conduct your meetings and carry things on so nicely, and still have strangers in your home?I think it is marvelous. The Lord blesses you or you would not be able to do it. I pray that He
648
will continue to bless you, not only in your family, but in your stake
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
family. All are dependent upon you sisters.
TRANSIENTS AND TRANSPORTATION
Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
THE three topics I would like to mention briefly this morning are: responsibility regarding new residents; the attitude of the Church in referring families to the counties; and the registration card.
Responsibility regarding New Residents: One of the most perplexing problems in welfare work today is that of the transient. On the roads and highways everywhere, going hither and thither, are to be seen, not only the regular homeless men or tramps, who are always milling about the country, but other types?men who have never been away from home before, half-grown boys, couples of all ages and families with young children who should be in school. The freight trains are also loaded with men and boys who are no longer refused a ride. All of these are looking for something better than they have left at home. Some have lost their jobs, and are honestly seeking work in new localities, the conditions of which they know nothing about. Others who have been unsuccessful generally, and who have caught the prevalent spirit of unrest, fancy there is a better chance for them somewhere else, and so start out with a view of improving conditions. Most of the young men or boys have been unable to secure work, or even to return to school or college, and so have left home to lighten the burden there, thinking that some way they will get along.
None of these seem to understand anything about the settlement laws of the country, which require one year for legal residence, and four months between counties within a state; nor do they realize who is responsible for people when they are in real need. Hence they find themselves in difficulty whenever they apply for help outside their legal residence.
There are two important things to remember regarding this matter: first, that people who are in economic straits should stay at home in their own counties where they have legal residence and are entitled to consideration and care; that relief agencies, when appealed to for help by non-residents should make every effort to help them return to their home counties. Counties accept the responsibility for the health and needs of their own citizens, but are not willing to care for non-residents, and they are stricter now than ever before in this respect, and are refusing to give regular help to any transient. They are willing to help them get back to their homes, however.
The L. D. S. Relief Society is conforming also to the settlement laws, and is supporting the counties in their efforts to place responsibility rightfully. In arranging for loans from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation of the United States Government, counties are allowing none of the funds to be used for transients?neither in the form of relief, nor relief work.
Referring Families to the County: Responsibility for the care of the poor rests, first on relatives, second, on the county government which is legally responsible; third, on churches and fraternal groups. The L. D. S. Church has, in the past, assumed more of the burden of caring for
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
those in need than it can carry, and while willing to assist, is today cooperating with other agencies and groups in placing responsibility where it rightfully belongs. In contacting relatives, and in helping them to understand their responsibility to each other and the importance of family solidarity, kindness and tact should be used. It often takes an outsider to really interpret relatives to each other, and it can be accomplished if care is used. Referring families to the county should be done in a kindly spirit, with due explanation that the Church is interested, as always, in the spiritual welfare and development of all those who claim membership, but has insufficient funds to meet all economic needs. Relief Society presidents should carefully explain: (a) That the County Department of Health and Charities is responsible for the care of the dependent, sick and needy within its borders; (b) That the Church is trying to supplement County relief in only the cases of active participating members; who in this time of unemployment need assistance. Careful thought should be given each family under consideration,
649
with reference to: (a) Church connection and activities, past and present; (b) Standards and personality; (c) probable effect on the individual or family as to the disposition of his case. The head of a family may be inactive himself, but may have children in the home who are active and intensely interested in the Church and auxiliary work. Such should receive careful consideration.
Registration Card: With a view of obtaining greater efficiency and accuracy in the handling of statistical and other information relative to family work, the  character and better citizenship, and second with the idea of establishing the ideal of world peace 650 in the minds of the children through correspondence with other countries. A very important part of the program is that of life saving. Red Cross has assumed the responsibility for encouraging and increasing the number of people who will know how to swim and to save life in case of accident. Asa result of this 200 memberships were given to people in Utah last year, specifying that they had completed a course which made them eligible as life savers. Another activity is that of First Aid work. This program in Utah is probably developed most in Salt Lake City, where practically every policeman and fireman has been trained in First Aid work, making it possible for them to give First Aid treatment. 598 certificates were issued to people in Utah in 1931. Still another part of the Red Cross program is the Itinerant Nursing Service, which deals very directly with the Relief Societies of Utah. The report from the National office says: "The Red Cross Itinerant Nursing Services which have been conducted in Utah have _ been promoted through the local chapters cooperating with the County Commissioners, Schools, Relief Societies, and other agencies. The majority of these services have been made possible through the Delano Memorial Fund." The Itinerant Nursing Service, which is partly paid by Red Cross and partly by local cooperation, also gives courses in Home Hygiene, and during the past three years there have been 79 classes conducted in Utah. There have been 1,270 people registered for this course who have received certificates from the Red Cross. The statement further reads: "'the splendid cooperation of the L. D. S. Relief Societies has been shown in each and every community through RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE out the State where any part of the Red Cross Nursing program has been carried on." The President of the United States is the president ex-officio of the Red Cross. Through its special organization the Red Cross is permitted to function as a public organization, and also to represent the government. Red Cross chapters are generally organized on a county basis, and there are 3,600 chapters in the United States. The quality of the work which these chapters do largely depends upon the interest of the local people. There may be a very splendid piece of work done in one chapter, and the next county may be doing nothing at all. In March, when Congress passed its act giving to the distressed and needy people of the United States, flour, stock feed, and later cotton, it naturally turned to the Red Cross as an organization which reaches into all of the communities and districts of the United States. The great task of distribution was placed on the shoulders of the Red Cross, and left for its officers to work out the plans. Great quantities of stock, feed and flour have been distributed in the states by the American Red Cross. Now cotton has been received, and must be properly distributed. We are very fortunate to be able to get so much of this aid. It is recommended that the people develop sewing bees, and certainly the Relief Society group will be ready to go into this work; then the articles made must come back again to the Red Cross. The clothing will be requisitioned out to the agencies who are capable of distribution, and they will only receive this when they itemize what they want, with the full name and complete details of the families' needs. On this basis it is RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE hoped that they will be able to make a wise and equitable distribution of Red Cross materials. 651 There must be a Red Cross Chapter in every county through which requests are to be made. GOVERNMENT RELIEF Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker?Member of General Board [X the 72nd Congress, House Record 7360, we find the act?'To provide emergency financing facilities for financial institutions, to aid in financing agriculture, commerce and industry, and for other purposes." "Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, that there be, and is hereby created a body corporate with the name 'Reconstruction Finance Corporation.'" It had an initial capital of $500,000,000 provided by the government, and was empowered to borrow $1,500,000,000 more to make loans. The bill creating the corporation was signed by President Hoover on January 22, 1932. The institution began to function the following week. The management of the corporation is vested in a board of directors consisting of the Secretary of the Treasury, who is a member ex-officio, and six other persons appointed by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Of the seven members of the Board of Directors not more than four shall be members of any one political party, and not more than one shall be appointed from any one Federal reserve district. The terms of the directors shall be two years. The personnel of the Board is as follows: Ogden Mills, Secretary of the Treasury, New York; Atlee Pomerene, President of the Corporation, Ohio; Eugene Meyer, Governor of the Federal Reserve Board, New York; Horace Paul Bestor, Farm Loan Commissioner, Missouri; Jesse H. Jones, Texas; Harvey C. Couch, Arkansas; Wilson McCarthy, Utah. The corporation is to operate for a period of ten years from the date of the enactment thereof, unless it is sooner dissolved by an Act of Congress. If at the expiration of ten years its board of directors shall not have completed the liquidation of its assets, and the winding up of its affairs, the duty of completing the task shall be transferred to the Secretary of the Treasury. All loans to aid in financing agriculture, commerce and industry shall be fully and adequately secured. 'Each such loan may be made for a period not exceeding three years, though the corporation may extend the time of payment up to five years from the date of the original loan. Beginning April 1, 1932, the corporation has made a report quarterly of its operations, stating the aggregate loans made to each of the classes of borrowers, the number of borrowers by States in each class, and the total assets and _ liabilities of the corporation. 'Another bill?H. R. 9642. "To relieve destitution, to broaden the lending powers of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, and to create employment by providing for and expediting a public works program." This is called the Emergency Relief and Construction Act of 1932. Section 1 (a) of this act says: "The Reconstruction Finance Corporation is authorized and empowered to make available out of 652 the funds of the corporation the sum of $300,000,000 to the several states and territories, to be used in furnishing relief and work relief to needing and distressed people, and in relieving the hardship resulting from unemployment, but not more than 15 per cent of such sum shall be available to any one state or territory." All amounts paid under this section bear interest at the rate of 3 per cent per annum. The Governor of any State or Territory may from time to time make application for funds under this section, and in each application so made shall certify the necessity for such funds and that the resources of the State or Territory, including moneys there available by the State or Territory or that can be made available, its political subdivisions and private contributions are inadequate to meet its relief needs. All amounts paid to the Governor shall be administered by the Governor, or under his direction, and upon his responsibility. Turkey growers of-eight states seek Federal Loan. Paper dated September 30, 1932. Federal assistance in financing the fattening and finishing of the 1932 commercial turkey crop from this region will be sought on behalf of 12,000 growers RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE by the Northwestern Turkey Growers' Association. Under the regulations loans may be made to farmers and stockmen and corporations and partnerships engaged in farming or the raising and breeding of livestock. In each instance security will consist of first liens on personal property, real estate and range property being acceptable only as a secondary lien. The rate of interest is 7 per cent, which is comparable to the lowest banking rates on this class of business. This rate is really lower than appears on the surface for the reason that it includes servicing and inspection fees. Loans are to be made for a period of one year. Grover Cleveland, speaking during a former depression said: "The lesson should be constantly enforced that though the people support the government the government should not support the people." President Hoover says: "Tt is not the function of the government to relieve individuals of their responsibilities to their neighbors, or to relieve private institutions of their responsibilities to the public, or of local government to the States, or of State governments to the Federal government. In giving that protection and that aid the Federal government must insist that all ee exert their responsibilities in u a OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison I WOULD like to compliment the Relief Societies on the very excellent way in which they are conducting the social welfare work in the stakes. Ten years ago it would have been thought impossible for the women to do what they are doing today. In many stakes the County Commissioners have asked our stake presidents to meet with them, and help them plan their work for the Winter. I saw a note coming from one of the County Commissioners to a stake president, saying: "We would like you to meet with us all the time, we know your help." I do hope the Stake Social Service Aids are being used, for they can assist so much. We have had some complaints come into the office that our dates for stake conferences conflict with RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the stake dates; e. G., sometimes a union meeting. My dear sisters, I want you to feel perfectly free to 'write in to us, and if your conference dates are at a time that is not suitable for you, let us know, and we can change them to a date agreeable to you and your Priesthood Authorities. The Deseret News is always cordial and helpful, and publishes Conference Convention dates before we print the programs. If you find your date is not the one you want, and will write to us at once, after consultation with your stake president, we shall be happy to change it. We find in holding our conferences that there is a great deal of duplication of office, and frequently our dear presidents, in their anxiety to have a full showing at meeting, will say: "one of )our board members, or one of our ward presidents is in attendance at the Mutual, can we have credit for her?" Credit cannot be given in cases of this kind. There may be a little woman who is so. Retiring that she does not come before the public. Try her out. One of the best pieces of work that can be done is to develop leadership! Some of these timid little women who have been called to office, and have done the best they could, have developed so wonderfully, that in a year's time they could hardly be recognized. In our stake conference programs we have asked for half an hour's time with our executive. Officers. Sometimes the president has felt so kindly toward her whole board, that she has said, '""Now we have not anything from the board, so we have asked all of the members to come in." It is not that there is any secret from the board at all, nor anything that we are trying to put over on them, but presidents, counselors and secretaries have specific 653 work to do which needs a little special attention. There is no need of holding busy board members, when things that are not their responsibility, are being discussed. So we would appreciate it if the executive officers could arrange for this meeting for half an hour with our  , where 2,400 feet of space has been secured. This will consist of publications, maps, graphs, charts and exhibits showing the work of women. III. The Publication of a Book, which will be the completed data of a great research project, which is now being conducted, showing the progress of women for the last 100 years. This book will be intensely interesting, for there is surely no greater change in any other one thing than the change in the status of women in matters legal, educational, political, professional. For as we have often said from this pulpit, 100 years ago no married woman could hold property nor have custody of her own children; no woman could enter college anywhere in the world; no woman could
664
vote; no woman had opportunity for a professional life. The question sometimes arises regarding the benefit of our membership in the National Council. For one I am inclined to be an enthusiastic believer in this affiliation. It gives us many opportunities and privileges, of which some are as follows: I. It puts us on a level with all other national women's organizations in the country; and while we are a small organization comparatively, having only some 66,000 members, we have equal privileges with the larger groups, such as the General Federation of Women's Clubs, with its 2,000,000 members, and the Women's Christian Temperance Union, with its 600,000. II. It furnishes us opportunity to put our work before other affiliated organizations, both in formal addresses and reports, and in informal discussions, so that they may know us and our standards and ideals. I doubt if there is any organization of women in the world of any
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
importance which has not heard of the L. D. S. Relief Society, and this general knowledge of our organization is due in a large way to our affiliation with the National and International Councils of Women. III. It gives us opportunity, in turn, to know what other women's groups are doing and thinking. IV. It furnishes opportunity for fellowship of the greatest women in the world. I feel that we should cherish our charter membership in the Council, for it was a great compliment to our organization to be invited to, and given representation in, the initial organization meeting of the Council. And I feel that we should, above all other things, as an organization, cherish the names and memories of those pioneer Relief Society women who, by their lives and works and ability achieved such recognition.
CITIZENSHIP
General Secretary?Julia A. F. Lund
AS the subject should be treated today there should be a qualifying adjective, for as Relief Society women, and loyal Americans, we are interested in the development of good citizenship. When we claim, as we can, the protection of life, liberty and property, both at home and abroad we should be ready in turn to give the utmost service and devotion to our country. Dr. Mayo says: "The soul of good citizenship will come from the training of a whole people for a worthy and effective manhood and womanhood. By its very nature it must be the most influential motive power of our civilization." Citizenship?the greatest gift of our nation to us is the culmination of the struggle of the ages, and to secure which the blood of the noblest of the earth has been shed. It is to be valued as one of the most sacred heritages we possess. Our Church has always taught the law of combination. Nowhere is it, or will it ever be possible to supplant individual effort, individual initiative, but in addition to this there must be work in cooperation. The spirit of brotherhood and sisterhood recognizes of necessity both the need of self help and of helping others, as the only way to accomplish great good. Citizenship makes a most insistent demand for recognition of this principle. The great function of a liberal education is to fit men and women for the life about them, and to prepare them, whatever profession or pursuit they may follow, to be useful citizens of their country. This is of vast importance in any country. In the United States it is pe-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
culiarly so, because we all have bestowed upon us the duties of citizenship, and according to our capacity and opportunities we are responsible for that citizenship. If citizenship is the highest gift of the nation, suffrage is the greatest gift of the state. Our response is the wise use of our franchise, the highest privilege and duty of citizenship. It was fondly expected by our founders of freedom, that the enfranchisement of women would bring into the electorate of our country a fresh and elevating power for good in public life. There are matters for which women are peculiarly responsible, and the assistance of women is necessary in order to give these matters the emphasis in government which their importance deserves. The growing desire for popular education in government bids well for the future. There is a wide field in which we use our suffrage, as we live under a government that is four-fold in its character, and in which we, as women and citizens, have a direct voice and a very sacred responsibility. We all have the conviction that the mere possession of the ballot may serve only to complicate present-day problems, that to be effective for the common good, it must be used not only conscientiously, but intelligently. Women wish to acquire the wisdom necessary to use the franchise towards constructive, social and political ends. While we believe that women are a distinct element in the electorate, we do not believe in a separate woman's party; women and men have a common stake in civilization, a common interest in good government, and should form cooperating parts of the body politic. The influence of the average citizen can be made most effective through party
665
organization, since ours is a party form of government. Women as well as men should assume the responsibility of party activity. A citizen's duty, however, is to country first, and to party second. A party is only a means to an end, and that end should be kept constantly in view. Parties should be made to keep pace with enlightened public opinion. We believe that all over, American public life is suffering from indifference of the people to government. The methods of casting votes, nominating candidates, writing platforms, securing legislation and administering government must be continually studied and improved. Women can render valuable service by stimulating thought and suggesting improvements of institutions and parties. Some of the subjects that have a special appeal to women are: (1) Efficiency in Government, Taxation, Federal Aid; (2) Public Welfare in Government, Child Welfare, Education, Living Costs, Women and Children in Industry, Wages, and the Legal Status of Women. Those problems of government touching our own community should be given great consideration in the study of Citizenship. Local government is directly at our door, and we should know the part we play in it as voters, and what we have a right to expect from those for whom we cast our votes. Government is service, and it is the duty of the officials whom we place in office to look after our interests. To most of us women, economic conditions are very real, very intimate problems during twenty-four hours of each day, and sometimes we feel quite desperately that we cannot remedy them. But if we housewives of the nation will become active participants in govern-
666
ment, holding to strict account every office holder we elect, we can correct evils which affect every home, every wage earner supporting a home, and every woman whose profession is home-making. Women truly wish to act with wisdom and patriotism in these matters. But let us realize that the cure for all our ills lies in our own hands if we but choose to use our powers. It is the fundamental principle in local as well as national affairs, that all governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. Corrupt, inefficient officials could not be in office if we had not placed them there. We should know the purpose of every election, and the officials to be elected. It is of the utmost importance that we should learn the names and records of individuals seeking office. What have they done worth noticing, or that would suggest them as able public servants? What is their training and qualification for the office sought? We ask this of every one applying for the humblest type of job or position in industry or other walks of life. Then why pass it over in those individuals whose influence is felt in every home in our communities? We must seek also to have a better knowledge of the laws, those on the statute books and those in process of enactment. Study the different nominating methods used in our states. Get a copy of our General Election Laws. These laws govern registration and conduct of election of all kinds, and the Corrupt Practice Laws. Emphasize the importance of registering. Thousands of men and women whose votes would count heavily for civic good, cannot vote on election day because they have forgotten to register. The subject of Primaries is of the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
utmost importance, and cannot be emphasized too strongly. It is the duty of every voter to attend the primary election, as it is the only opportunity for securing good men and women for office. Remember this, that though we have the opportunity at the polls on election day of voting in the final choice, but of the two, the Primary is the more important, because here we have the choice in the selection of the best material for each office on the ticket, while at the election our choice is limited to the candidates who have been placed on the ticket or nominated at the Primary. At the Primary we may be able to choose between a good and a bad candidate, while on election day we may, as we so often do, have to choose between the lesser of two evils. After we have placed good servants in office, we should support and help them in the discharge of their duties, and we should honor and obey the law in small things as in great. The President of the Illinois State University was correct when he said that the best brains of the nation are too busy in private and personal concerns to give the attention they should to their country. Powers which need to be exercised will be exercised by someone, if not by those who should, then by someone else. There should be more willingness on the part of all men and women of professions and affairs to sacrifice their personal interests for the general good. We are not pessimists, but people of faith?faith in ourselves and in our country, and we are going to set our hands to the task that lies before us. The thought of patriotism always suggests itself, in any consideration of good citizenship. The history of our glorious past is a story of mighty achievement, and great devotion to country, but never before
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
has there been a greater challenge for real patriotism than now. Human welfare is a concern of Government. The physician, seeking to overcome suffering and prolong human life; the educator, training our people in right thinking, are good citizens in the best sense of the word. Our duties in the future will take various forms, as they have in the past. There are many ways in which we may benefit and aid our fellowmen and serve the state in which we live, and it is open to all of us alike to help to govern the country and direct its course along the passing years. In the honorable discharge of duties as they present themselves from day to day, we may attain to good citizenship of the highest usefulness. It is not too much to say that our success as a nation depends upon the useful citizen who acts effectively and intelligently. The ideal of lofty patriotism and good citizenship today is no longer simply "My country right or wrong," but rather "My country when she is right, and when she is wrong; my life to set her right." The Stars and Stripes are the emblem of what our citizenship means to us. No one has more beautifully expressed it than Franklin K. Lane:
667
"Then came a great shout from The Flag: 'The work that we do is the making of the flag.' I am not the flag; not at all. I am but its shadow.
"I am whatever you make me, nothing more.
"I am your belief in yourself, your dream of what a People may become.
"Sometimes I am strong with pride, when men do an honest work, fitting the rails together truly. Sometimes I droop, for then purpose has gone from me, and cynically I play the coward. Sometimes I am loud, garish, and full of that ego that blasts judgment.
"But always I am all that you hope to be and have the courage to try for.
"I am the Constitution and the courts, statutes and the statute makers, soldier and dreadnaught, drayman and street sweep, cook, counselor, and clerk.
"I am the battle of yesterday and the mistake of tomorrow.
"I am the mystery of the men who do without knowing why.
"I am the clutch of an idea and the reasoned purpose of resolution.
"I am no more than what you believe me to be, and I am all that you believe I can be.
"I am what you make me, nothing more.
"I swing before your eyes as a bright gleam of color, a symbol of yourself, the pictured suggestion of that big thing which makes this nation. My stars and my stripes are your dream and your labors. They are bright with cheer, brilliant with courage, firm with faith, because you have made them so out of your hearts. For you are the makers of the flag, and it is well that you glory in the making."
BISHOP DAVID A. SMITH
I FEEL very much favored in having this privilege of meeting with you this afternoon. Each of the Presiding Bishopric would like very much to be here, but we cannot all come, for we are needed at the Presiding Bishop's Office to wait upon the stake and ward officials who are attending conference and have problems to solve. I did not come to take up much time talking to you, but just to let you know that the Presiding Bishopric appreciate your work, and keep in touch with you through your presidency, with whom we meet each week. I do not know what we would do without you and your organization. During the years past few have really known of your labors, and in the coming year none can tell now just what your problems will be. We are sure that you are prepared for the fight and will con-
668
tinue to carry on. The Lord bless you in your work; may His blessing abide with you always. I have said before to you that bishops preside over and are part of Relief Society. Last week a new bishop said he had called upon the Relief Society the first meeting they held after he was made bishop. As he entered the room, the president turned to him and said, "Bishop, what is wrong now?" He answered, "Nothing, I hope. I have heard of your excellent work, the fine things you are doing in this ward, and I just wanted to come in and say to you, I am at your service and desire to cooperate with you in every way possible." Every bishopric
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
should take this attitude. Where they do not, it is doubtless because they know the work is in good hands. A ward cannot run efficiently unless the bishopric and presidency of the Relief Society meet at least once a month and go over the details of their work. The responsibility for calling these meetings rests upon the bishopric. If they fail to call such meetings and you feel they are necessary, ask for the privilege of meeting with them. May the Lord bless you and help you abundantly in this great work which is entrusted to your care, give you strength, wisdom, and means to carry on, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON
I FIRMLY believe it is the fine loyal support of the Presiding Bishopric that makes our contact with the bishops in the wards so pleasant, and as I have noticed, in going round to the different stakes, the bishops are growing more cooperative and sustaining us more all the time, and I believe that is due to our fine Presiding Bishopric, and their attitude toward us, and we are deeply grateful for it.
Evening Session
MISS SARAH M. McLELLAND Member of General Board
I AM grateful to be the daughter of pioneer parents who helped to make a path over a desert, built bridges and dug ditches to irrigate the dry land, and made the desert blossom as the rose. When called to give service in the Church, I felt unequal to the task. I went to my Bible for encouragement and read the forty-first chapter and tenth verse of Isaiah: "Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed: for I am thy God; I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness." These lines gave me courage to carry on. The most interesting books I have read were biographies of men and women who have done things, who, through their thrift and industry have made great sacrifice, and can say this is a beautiful world to live in. In my travels from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, I have met the representative people of the Church, and this contact has made me more sympathetic with people who have courageously met hardships and overcome them.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Some years ago I visited Arizona soon after our people had been driven from Mexico. They had left homes of comfort and had to settle in a wilderness of sage brush and grease wood, living in tents and houses covered with brush to protect them from the heat and rain, the ground for a floor, yet I never heard a word of complaint. They had to travel fifteen miles for water to drink. One little woman said, "I lost everything but my faith." Later I visited these people, and they had wells with concrete curbing around them, and had built a large building to be used for a community center. Few live who do not have their Gethsemane, for life is made of joy and sorrow. It is trials that develop us and make us tolerant, charitable and forgiving. The Prophet Isaiah tells us Jesus was a man of sorrow, and acquainted with grief. In His short life in the ministry He accomplished so much that prepared Him to sit on the throne of His Father. Jesus was the great exemplar, who gave Himself for the salvation of humanity.
"There is a destiny that makes us brothers, None goes his way alone All that we send into the lives of others Comes back into our own."
Everything of real worth comes through sacrifice. Our success in life is made up of our mistakes corrected. Our faith in this work is strengthened by the lives of great women who have preceded us. Emma Smith, the Prophet's wife, was the first president of the Relief Society. She was a woman of superior ability. We have had six presidents since, who have given their time and talents to the building of this great organization. It has been my privilege to know these women, first through my mother's association, and with the last three through direct contact. They, too, have been called of God, and are elect ladies. We have a membership of approximately 70,000 women who are giving their time and talents to make this a better world to live in. Women who have put service before self. When we look back upon the record we have made we cannot help but feel repaid for every effort for the purpose of earthly existence is service to God and the human race.
MRS. JEANNETTE A. HYDE
I BRING to you the love of our Hawaiian saints, and of our missionaries, our mission presidents, and those who are laboring on the Islands. It is a marvelous work and it is wonderful to be connected with the people who for so many years have been given an opportunity to learn of the gospel. "By their fruits ye shall know them," and surely by the example and the hard work of Brothers George Q. Cannon, Joseph F. Smith, and others who have been there as missionaries, a great impression was made upon not only the Latter-day Saints, but upon the Gentile people of the Islands. No doubt each president has been just the man or the woman for the organization at the time of his or her presiding authority, but today I think we have one of the most outstanding presidents in Brother Castle H. Murphy, whom I have known since I have been in the islands for the past seven years. When he came into the mission he brought the most wonderful inspiration. He saw the things needed, and immediately set
670
about to organize and bring these into existence. I believe that no other mission has received back more young men and women who have labored as missionaries, to enter into the commercial world and live among the native people. Once they come to the Islands they simply love the natives and climate and want to return. The native people have felt for so many years that the Church was their own, President Murphy saw the need of organizing our young men and women of American parentage. I want to pay to the Mutual the highest tribute for the splendid outlines they have produced this year and sent out to the missionary boys and girls. We have our deacons organized, and our meeting houses are taken care of, not by the elders, but by the deacons who have charge of them. At meetings our missionary boys are all seated on the stand, at the right of President Murphy. I wish you could hear the young boys and girls say what "Mormonism" has done for them. When young boys and girls are going to the Islands, their parents write and ask: "Is it safe?" I would say, "Yes." Any man and any woman who has the strength and background of "Mormonism" can live there or any other place. It is an easier life, there is an easier virtue among the native people, but you are not native, you are a white man or woman, you have had the gospel training, and you know how to conduct yourselves. President Murphy has conducted what is known as the High Council. Some of the white boys who have never given any particular attention to the Church are now the presiding men in this High Council. They have charge of the Relief Society,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Sunday School, Mutual, etc. They hold their meetings every Sunday night up in the mission house. We are having our Fast Meetings immediately after Sunday School. There we have the most marvelous testimonies of the young boys and girls, men and women who come out on Sunday morning to Sunday School. Our classes are so full that we have to bring in two or three benches. This demonstrates that if you put people to work, if you ask them to take the responsibility and help you to carry on the work they will do so. The young people are just waiting to be asked, and that is what has happened in the mission. We have, of course, a wonderful Relief Society, with Sister Murphy as president, but the reports from the Relief Society you hear so often. It is not so often you hear of the fine exemplary work of our young people, so I bring this message to you who have sons and daughters there, that you may be comforted in your hearts, that you may be proud of the things you have taught them. That the Church has given to the young people something that holds them even though they are separated and are far away from their fathers and mothers. There may be some who get a little wild?they do that at home?but in general I think we have in that mission a superior set of young men and women. I am so proud to bring that message home to you. In Relief Society the sisters are very happy over their birthdays, and they celebrate the organization's birthday by inviting all the different branches to participate in the birthday
671
party. They are people for long programs, with 20 or 30 numbers. They will call the presidents and some of the missionaries, who make short speeches, and have music and all kinds of singing, which is beautiful RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE . The names of the different presidents of the branches (six in Honolulu) are called as they come up to speak, and give a greeting. Their donation, done up in a little handkerchief is handed to the secretary-treasurer, as they say, "Aloha." Through that birthday party they usually have from $75 to $100 as a gift to the Relief Society. Naturally they take it from one organization to another, but it is the spirit of love and generosity with which they give it that counts. No one is more generous than an Hawaiian. At the big Hui which they give, the Relief Society prepares the food and gets the tables ready between meetings. Let me say that the recipe for the Hawaiian Cocoanut cakes were left there by Mrs. Reed Smoot, now passed away, and whenever they have this cake they always say, "When Mrs. Smoot was here many years ago, she left this recipe with us." They are as a rule, very good cooks in their style of cooking, and they serve Laulau fish, wrapped up in leaves. This is put into a Dutch oven made of 671 rocks, and is considered by most people very delicious. Once a week all the Relief Societies get together and have some place in town and sell these Laulaus for $1.00 a piece. This helps replenish their Relief Society funds. We think that we work, and make great sacrifices, but you should go to the Islands and see what those poor natives do who have so little to live on; a little dried fish, and food that we would not call very good. When the treasurer's report comes in, it will be found, I believe, that they have given more per capita than any other organization in the Church. Their one regret is that they never have any of the presiding sisters visit them. We of Hawaii are a part of the Church, and we need encouragement, and we need our brethren and sisters to visit us, and help build us up. Our Relief Society organization there is one of the very best; I do not think you will find anything better in all Zion. ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH (Elder Smith's address will appear in a later issue of the Magazine.) PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON In listening to this beautifful singing here tonight, I was reminded of something that is in store for the women of the Church, and I hope too that the men will appreciate and enjoy it. The Authorities of the Church are going to give to the Auxiliary organizations, beginning -with the Relief Society, the privilege of speaking over radio. It will go out over KSL, and begin a week from next Sunday night, October 16. During this whole summer, in the hottest weather, there has been a chorus, called "The Singing Mothers;" 250 voices of Relief Society women, practicing to sing. The time will be divided. About half of our period will be devoted to speaking, the other to singing. We hope that you will tune in and hear what our "Mormon" women are doing in a cultural way. A few years ago I heard a man lecture on "What are You Doing 672 to Prevent Delinquency?" He asked the questions of the audience, "What were they doing for delinquents?" There was any amount of money being spent to pay for policemen and Juvenile Court officers, and women working to try to save the young after they became delinquent. I heard a close friend of mine who is working with young people, make a statement which is true. It was to the effect that we are not interested, as we should be, in our young boys and girls. She had gone sometimes to a bishop, and asked for somebody in his ward who would be a big brother or big sister to these underprivileged children. The bishop would say: "Why yes, this is a beautiful thing to do, but it is not done." Last fall one of our stake presidents reported a plan put into effect in her stake in an effort to keep boys and girls from becoming delinquent. Just before Hallowe'en, when there is a spirit of lawlessness and recklessness among our boys and girls, a group was assembled and taught to make pretty little favors for Halloween. Mothers, who had been disturbed by other mothers' children, invited the children of the neighborhood into their homes. The entertainment was not expensive, but these children had a good time without destroying or defacing property. I hope that when you go home, you leaders in the community, will think of some way to keep children out of mischief. We have many children now who do not have comfortable homes; in too many there is only one fire in the house, and that probably in the kitchen. The father has been out of employment, and he cannot help being nervous. The mother is full of anxiety as to how she is going to take care of the children and provide food and clothing for them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE There is no other place for the children to be than with the nervous over-wrought parents. What are you doing to help these boys and girls?, 'About two years ago, the Relief Society asked that every member in the organization contribute one useable article of wearing apparel to the Society of that ward; first supply the needs of the ward, and then give the surplus to the stake president who could use it in the com-_ munities in that stake which were not so fortunate as to have all that was required. This worked beautifully where it was carefully put into operation, and is still urged as a beautiful custom. I was much impressed by an article of Henry Ford's, in which he says: "This is not a cycle of hard times from which we shall return to build big-. Ger panics. This is not a period of depression to be tided over until good times 'come back. This is not a 'clean up' by which the rich profit and the poor lose. 'This is not a breakage which: can be patched up so that we resume our reckless course again. "This is the ending of an era. Events have pushed us out of our sheltered backwater and thrust us into the stream of change. We may waste our time in regretting what we must leave behind, or we may use it to discover what is about to emerge; but we must go on, we cannot stop.; "What has happened is this?the thing that should have served life was compelling life to serve it, and life threw it out. Life always does that.  "All we have is our experience, our self-reliance, courage, and good will. And in these qualities the new progress will be founded.  "What will remain is everything that is worth while?the land, the people, our experience, in fact all the things that help people to live.  "Money is a by-product. If necessary, we can get along without it, but we cannot do without these other qualities. Character, personality.  Personality is our greatest wealth. That is what life RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE is, a development of character through experience, "Each one of us must use his initiative and self-reliance (Americans have not lost these) to make his own place to stand. Action is needed, but it is not action against something that is disappearing, but action in harmony with what is coming. For the whole meaning of this period is not in itself, but whither it is leading us." We shall have shorter working hours, we shall have smaller wages, we shall have left to us only those things that are the rich things of life, character, and courage and opportunity. And now I want to call upon you mothers, you women of the Relief Society to be prepared in your homes, that you will be able to establish a fine haven of refuge when your husbands and your sons and daughters do not have employment, when they have more leisure to spend with you. In times past we have had so little leisure, that if a man had a half day or a day off it would be a holiday, and was celebrated as such. Now we have many of these days, and it will depend largely upon the women whether or not time is spent in a constructive way. It is a big mission, but I believe it is coming. Groups of women all over the nation are now making plans for this. Even the colored women are doing their part. There are a number of organizations where women are doing such beautiful things, but my dear sisters, it will depend upon the mothers in the home to hold aloft the standards for our husbands and young people, 673 to help them to see that money is not the big thing; money is not the rich thing. As Henry Ford says, money is dead, but character and the things that the human heart produces are the things that will live on. I pray that our Heavenly Father will bless you splendid women, that we will all rise to any occasion, as I know we have done in the past. That you will find not only peace in your own home, but your care will extend to some underprivileged child, to some child whose parents are not giving' him the loving attention he needs. These are our Father's children too. I believe that if we can reach out and get the worthwhile things, if we can teach our children to appreciate the better things in life, if we can build up the communities in which we live, this depression will prove to be one of the greatest blessings. May the peace of Israel's God be with you. May we live so that we will be entitled to the song which we sang tonight. Did you sing it with your hearts; did you notice what you were singing? "When the earth begins to tremble, Bid our fearful hearts be still; When thy judgments spread destruction, Keep us safe on Zion's hill." We will be kept safe if we will take up our responsibilities, if we will carry the load as we have carried it, as our mothers and grandmothers have carried it, I am sure we will be kept safe at all times. May our Father's blessing be with us, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.