Lesson Department Theology and Testimony DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS (First Week in January) Vicarious Work FOR THE Dead Lesson IV 1. One of the most comprehensive truths taught in the Doctrine and Covenants is vicarious work for the dead. Before this doctrine was introduced by Joseph Smith the sectarian world generally regarded the condition of the dead as more or less beyond the influence of those who are alive, in other words, "Where the tree falleth, there it shall be." Indeed, the condition of man's existence in the future world was thought to be entirely dependent upon his earthly conduct. Accordingly, if he accepted the Gospel on the earth, he would live happily for all time to come; conversely, if he failed to comply with God's commands while he yet lived, the future contained nothing for him except sorrow and remorse. 2. It soon became apparent however as the Gospel was being revealed that the plan of salvation includes the entire human family; moreover, that the laws of God are based on actual verities and therefore apply to the dead as well as the living. It also became apparent that man's advancement in the future will be dependent upon his merit. The justice of God also demanded that those who failed to receive the Gospel here should have opportunity hereafter. Thus the word of God was seen to provide for the possible salvation of every child of God, both living and dead. 3. Biblical Predictions. But Deity had already begun such a program. Even in the days of the prophet Malachi he said: "Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord: And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse." (Mal. 4:5, 6) The intent of this 'statement was doubtless but little understood by sectarian scholars. Indeed, its significance is difficult to discern except by one inspired of God. Taken in connection with the revealed Gospel however its meaning is both clear and important. 4. Likewise the apostle Paul was doubtless aware that the ordinances of the Gospel are effective for the dead when properly performed. To the saints at Corinth he said: "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" (I Cor. 15:29) This passage, although regarded by sectarian scholars as one of the most abstruse in the entire Bible, yet to the Latter-day Saints, with their fuller knowledge of God's purposes, has a plain and simple meaning. 5. Moroni's Promise to Joseph Smith. It is surely not without significance, that on the occasion of Moroni's first heavenly manifestation
LESSON DEPARTMENT
to Joseph Smith, further information should be given concerning this most important subject. Joseph relates that on the evening of the twenty-first of September, 1823, after retiring for the night, he supplicated the Lord in prayer, having full confidence of a Divine manifestation, as he had previously done. Immediately a transcendent manifestation broke upon him, and in the midst of a light brighter than that of noonday a heavenly personage appeared before him. "He called me by name," records the Prophet, "and said unto me that he was a messenger sent from the presence of God to me and that his name was Moroni; that God had a work for me to do; and that my name should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds, and tongues, or that it should be both good and evil spoken of among all people." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 11, 12) After informing Joseph of the gold plates from which the Book of Mormon was subsequently translated, he quoted several passages from the book of Malachi including those comprising Section 2 of the Doctrine and Covenants. It should be noted however that the angel's quotations are slightly different from modern biblical construction. (The student should compare carefully.)
6. To what extent Joseph understood the full meaning of this statement is not known, and yet he records no surprise when it was repeated to him again in essentially the same form seven years later. On the latter occasion while on his way to procure wine to be used in the Sacrament, Joseph was met by a heavenly messenger who told him, among other things, that the hour is approaching when Jesus Christ will drink of the fruit of the vine
675
with him on earth, also with "Elijah, unto whom I have committed the keys of the power of turning the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to the fathers, that the whole earth may not be smitten with a curse." (Doctrine and Covenants, 27:9)
7. Fulfillment of the Promise. Some five and one-half years later immediately after the temple at Kirtland had been completed and dedicated to the Lord, Elijah the prophet stood before Joseph and committed authority unto him in the following words: "Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi?testifying that he (Elijah) should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come?To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse?Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed unto your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors." (Doctrine and Covenants, 110:14-16)
8. Joseph explains the circumstances attendant upon Elijah's appearance as follows: "In the afternoon, April 3, 1836, I assisted the Lord's Supper to the Church, receiving it from the Twelve, whose privilege it was to officiate at the sacred desk this day. After having performed this service to the brethren, I retired to the pulpit, the veils being dropped, and bowed myself, with Oliver Cowdery, in solemn and silent prayer. After rising from prayer, the following vision was opened to both of us." (History of the Church, Vol. II, p. 435) Among other heavenly personages that appeared before them was Elijah the
676
prophet whose statement to Joseph and Oliver is quoted above.
9. Preparation for Temple Building. In the meantime the saints, true to their charge, had already begun the work of temple building. Within less than a year after the Church was organized the Lord indicated the necessity of a temple to which he could come and in which sanctifying ordinances could be administered. In a revelation given in December, 1830, he said: "I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God; wherefore, gird up your loins and I will suddenly come to my temple." (Doctrine and Covenants, 36:8) In February of 1831 the Lord said further: "That my covenant people may be gathered in one in that day when I shall come to my temple. And this I do for the salvation of my people." (42:36) That the saints were fully expecting to build a temple is evident by the expression of the prophet, "When will Zion be built up in her glory, and where will Thy temple stand, unto which all nations shall come in the last days?" (History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 189) In answer to this supplication the Lord designated Independence, Missouri, as the center of the land of Zion and the site at which the temple should be built. (Doctrine and Covenants, 57:1-4)
10. The Kirtland Temple. Slightly more than a year later, December 27, 1832, the Lord commanded the erection of a holy house at Kirtland, Ohio (88:119). This command was repeated June 1, 1833 (Section 95). During the three years that followed, the saints worked diligently in the erection of this temple, and on the twenty-seventh of March, 1836, it was dedicated to the Lord by fervent prayer. (Section 109) Within two years after the temple was dedicated, many of the saints left the city of Kirtland and the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
temple soon fell into the hands of those who were unfriendly.
11. The Nauvoo Temple. After the expulsion of the saints from Missouri?where the cornerstone for another temple had been laid at Far West?the saints established themselves in and around the obscure village of Commerce, Illinois. Undaunted however by their former experiences, they laid plans for a beautiful city and reserved the most commanding site for a temple. Here on April 6, 1841, the eleventh anniversary of the organization of the Church, with impressive ceremonial rites, the cornerstones of the temple were laid. (See History of the Church, Vol. IV, pp. 326-331.) Shortly thereafter the Lord gave a revelation (Section 124) in which he instructed that provision be made for the sacred ordinance of baptism for the dead. It will be remembered that no arrangements had been made for this rite in the temple at Kirtland; for at the time of its erection no modern revelation had been received relating thereto. Upon receipt of this instruction the saints put forth renewed energy, and by the eighth of October, 1841, the baptismal font was ready for dedication, the ceremony being performed by the prophet himself. Thus for more than four years before the temple was completed, ordinance work was in progress within it.
12. Although the Prophet had become intensely interested in the work for the dead (See Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 127, 128), yet he was not permitted to witness the completion of the temple, for on the twenty-seventh of June, 1844, he and his brother Hyrum were martyred at Carthage, Illinois. The saints, although temporarily stupefied by the cruel loss of their leaders, quickly resumed work on the temple, and slightly less than a
LESSON DEPARTMENT
677
year afterward the capstone was laid with impressive ceremony. In 1845 the building was so near completion that large assemblies were held within it. During the latter part of 1845 and the early months of 1846 many of the saints received their blessings and endowments in the temple, even though the exodus of the people from Nauvoo was already in progress. By September of 1846 the temple was in the hands of mobs, and the saints who had toiled to build it were making their way slowly westward toward a new refuge in the Rocky Mountains. At the close of two years the temple fell prey to an act of incendiarism. Two years later still, May 27, 1850, its blackened walls were demolished by the violence of a passing tornado. What remained of the temple became public property and was carried away as souvenirs or used as building material in other structures, so that at present not one stone stands upon another where the temple once stood.
13. Later Temples. Unchanged in their determination to serve the Lord, the Mormon pioneers selected the site for the great temple at Salt Lake City only four days after their arrival in the valley. Subsequently, other temples were completed and dedicated to the service of the Lord at the following places: St. George, Utah; Logan, Utah; Manti, Utah; Cardston, Canada; Laie, Hawaii; and Mesa, Arizona. Vicarious work for the dead is performed exclusively within these sacred buildings, baptisms alone having reached many millions.
14. No one who is familiar with the extent of the genealogical work now being carried on by the Latter-day Saints will doubt that the hearts of the children are literally turned to their fathers. In addition to the work of the General Committee of the Church, every stake and ward has a committee whose special function is to encourage and assist the saints in obtaining a genealogy of their ancestors, also in keeping records of their relatives now living. As a result of this work a large percentage of all the families of the Church possess histories of their ancestors, some long and some short. The Church has founded an extensive genealogical library, to which accessions are continually being made.
15. Before the temple endowment can be performed for the dead, the following data must be available: name, date and place of birth, and date and place of death. If the dead is to be sealed to relatives, somewhat similar information must be available concerning them. At the time of the temple service all of these data are recorded and thereafter carefully preserved.
Questions for Discussion
Why is it necessary that God's laws should apply to the dead as well as to the living?
In what respects does Moroni's rendition of the promise to send Elijah differ from the Biblical statement?
What are your reasons for believing that Paul may have possessed some information concerning vicarious work for the dead?
Relate the circumstance of Moroni's appearance to Joseph Smith.
Explain Elijah's fulfillment of the Promise.
Discuss the history of the Kirtland Temple.
In what respects did the Nauvoo temple differ from the one at Kirtland?
 
Teachers' Topic
THE BEATITUDES
Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and to apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives.
"Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled."
The New Testament repeatedly states this doctrine. It is the doctrine that one gets what he asks for. Jesus said to his followers: "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." (Matt. 7:7). The blessing which is righteously desired is attained. What we really ask for, we get. We must not be satisfied with temporary values, but rather seek that which has permanent value. Then neither wealth, fame, nor knowledge can entirely satisfy the soul's hunger. "In a baffling and dimly lighted world, it is seldom that life is more than a frustrated endeavor and a blind groping. But if it be God that we are hungering and thirsting after, it is no futile quest."
The Doctrine and Covenants gives a beautiful promise which is full of comfort. "Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you: seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask and ye shall receive; knock and it shall be opened unto you." (Doctrine and Covenants, 88:63). "He that seeketh me early shall find me, and shall not be forsaken." (Doctrine and Covenants, 88:83).
Then the secret of our life's happiness is to want the best things and to want them with all our hearts. We must subordinate other interests and pleasures to this important quest, if we would be satisfied. We must be active spiritually if we would be "filled."
"Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 5:16).
We can prove our love of God by radiating righteousness. If we really hunger and thirst after righteousness, then our duty is to do the will of Him who sent us here, and our hunger will be appeased. "He (the Master) satisfieth the longing soul," says the Psalmist, "and filleth the hungry soul with goodness."
The Master dictates His Kingdom. To those who seek it, He has given a promise, or a legacy, that they shall not seek in vain. True religion, or righteousness, is the secret of success in its broadest sense, because it means the abandonment of deceit and fraud, and the substitution therefor of the love of truth, and of the beautiful and good. It means the laying aside of sin and frivolity, and accepting in their place that which helps to build character and nobleness in one's service to God and man; it means the love of all mankind, the love of truth and right, the adoption of true Christianity. Those who hunger and thirst after righteousness in this sense shall be filled in the Kingdom of Heaven.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
679
Literature
THE DELIGHT OF GREAT BOOKS
(Third Week in January)
Sir WALTER SCOTT
"The men who have deserved well of their country are those who have set up a loftier standard for its gentlemen, who have in prosperity and adversity consistently followed the straight ways of honor, who have bestowed upon their fellow countrymen new cause to be proud of their native land, who have endeared her to other nations, or have given enjoyment to millions of her children. This is true service."?"Memoirs of the Life of Sir Walter Scott," J. G. Lockhart.
There are those who call Sir Walter Scott the wisest and greatest man of English letters in the nineteenth century. It is fitting then that during the centenary year of the death (September 21, 1832) of this great character that we make a pilgrimage to Abbotsford to pay homage and receive in return a more intelligent and sympathetic understanding of the human past.
Sir Walter Scott?Biography
The people of Scotland "gentle," or "peasant" have always thought much of ancestry, and no man was more interested in pedigree than the Laird of Abbotsford. "There are few in Scotland," says Lockhart, "who could trace their blood to so many stocks of historical distinction." A descendant from the Macdougals, one of the five oldest families in Scotland, Sir Walter Scott was not only a Scotsman but a Borderer. His forbears had always been aliens in the Highlands, the mountains northward of the Firths of Forth and Clyde, but on the mountains which separated England and Scotland the clans of Scott were the "greatest robbers and fiercest fighters among the border clans." Walter grew up when the Border was a subdued country, but he grew up with the stories of the wild deeds done by the men of his own name and blood. He let no family tradition drop: "rather he gave a sword and a cocked hat to each story," making all the world familiar with the history of a people and period which was rapidly passing to oblivion.
Walter Scott was born on August 15th, 1771, in Edinburgh. His father was a lawyer, a Writer to the Signet; his mother was a Rutherford, a woman fond of the best in literature and with a remarkable memory for history. At Abbotsford in Sir Walter's desk are six bright locks of hair of six brothers and sisters who were born and died before his own birth. Walter Scott's life-long malady, lameness, came at the age of eighteen months from an attack of infantile paralysis, which took the use of the right leg.
The making of the poet began when the lame child was sent to the grandparents' farm at Sandyknowe overlooking the Tweed and near the old peel tower of Smailholme; a district where "every field has its battle and every rivulet its song." The poet recorded the influence of these beginnings of love for his country and its history, also his passion for the beautiful countryside in the Epistle to Erskine in "Marmion":
"Then rise those crags, that mountain tower Which charmed my fancy's wakening hour.
And ever by the winter hearth, Old tales I heard of woe or mirth, Of lovers' sighs, of ladies' charms, Of witches' spells, of warriors' arms, Of patriots' battles won of old While stretched at length upon the floor, Again I fought each combat o'er."
When the boy Walter returned to Edinburgh to begin his formal education, naturally, he became the special care of his mother who encouraged him to spend his leisure in reading aloud to her. "Over and above the new delights of literature came the love of natural beauty, more especially where combined with ancient ruins."
Scott entered college in 1783 but was an irregular learner. On Saturdays he and his companions would set off with their books of romances to Salisbury Crags or Arthur's Seat. English romances could not keep them satisfied; they learned to read French and Italian so as to extend the romantic horizon. The outstanding friend of the student days was William Clerk. Together they studied law after it was decided that Walter Scott should follow his father's profession; together they assumed the "gown of advocate with all its duties and honors." For the next ten years Scott's active life was spent in the Courts of Edinburgh, because it was the desire of his father's heart. There was no force or enthusiasm behind his activities as advocate because the blood of the rover and soldier could find no means of expression.
When scarcely nineteen he met and loved Miss Stewart Belches. She loved and married another. Years went by and the vision faded into the lady of "Rokeby," of "Redgauntlet," and the "Lay of the Last Minstrel." In 1797 Scott's heart becoming "handsomely pieced" he married Miss Carpenter, of French origin.
680
Scott's married life continued for thirty years. Lockhart tells us, "Lady Scott was rich in personal attractions." Intellectual companionship she could not give her husband, but she never got in his way. Enjoying his successes and displaying fortitude during his reverses, the qualities that stand the supreme test were evident. When death removed her from his side Scott wrote in his Journal, "She was the faithful and true companion of my fortunes, good and bad." Children came to them, two boys and two girls, Sophia, Walter, Anne, Charles. Sophia early became her father's confidant. One of the delights of Scott's life was to hear Sophia sing "Young Lochinvar." Sophia became the wife of J. G. Lockhart, Scott's loving biographer.
For years Scott had been collecting the old Border ballads and the history of his loved countryside and its rough chivalry to save for literature. At the suggestion of James Ballantyne, a printer, the border tales were prepared for publication. In preparing "The Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border," Scott discovered his own power, the possibilities of his own talent. It was not long before he attempted imitation ballad writing in "The Eve of St. John." Encouraged by success, Scott began to plan an original poem, "The Lay of the Last Minstrel," a romance of chivalry. Forty-four thousand copies of this poem were sold during its author's life-time. Next Scott set himself to write a prose romance, "Waverley." When the opening chapters were submitted to Erskine, his literary confidant, the adventure was discouraged. Thus a new metrical romance was started, "Marmion," a tale of Flodden Field. In 1810 "The Lady of the Lake" was published, the best of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the narrative poems of Scott, for which the Highlanders took him to their heart. In 1814 he took up the unfinished "Waverley" and finished his first prose romance. In the next fourteen years twenty-three novels were written. All of these were published anonymously, partly for fear of injuring his reputation as a poet and partly for the joy of mystery. The financial success of these literary activities enabled Scott to purchase Abbotsford, a picturesque mansion. He lived there like a baron surrounded by retainers.
Financial trouble came upon Scott in 1826 through his partnership with the Ballantynes, his publishers. The liabilities were over ?100,000. Scott was not legally liable and could have allowed himself to be declared bankrupt. He set himself, however, to pay the debt. He was now fifty-five years old. Two days later he was at work on a new novel, "Woodstock." Four months after the crisis his wife, whose health had been failing for some time, died. It was a bitter trial. He left his dearly loved home and went to live in lodgings in Edinburgh so as to work harder. The rest of his life was spent "in an effort to maintain his honor as a citizen." Of the debts Scott actually paid ?70,000, the rest was covered by copyrights.
In 1830 Scott was stricken by paralysis; a voyage to Europe was made in an effort to regain his health. His return to Abbotsford in July, 1832, was marked by a loyal welcome from friends and dependents. After a few days he manfully tried to begin to work again but it was impossible. A few days before his death in a moment of consciousness he spoke to Lockhart, his son-in-law, "Be a good man?be virtuous, be religious, be
681
a good man. Nothing else will give you any comfort when you come to lie here." So died September 21, 1832, a knightly gentleman. Sir Walter Scott lies in Dryburg Abbey, where the music of the Border water fills the roofless aisles. There as the gravestone records, he was buried beside his wife, another line adds that here also "at the feet of Sir Walter Scott" lies John Gibson Lockhart.
Biographies have been called "lighthouses erected in the great sea of time." One of the greatest biographies ever written is Lockhart's "Life of Sir Walter Scott." It was not for nothing that the wise Jesuits had their young scholars read the "Lives of the Saints." There are lessons to be learned from the living of life. "Scott's life shed a light as well as a lustre on England. Every English speaking person should be familiar with his noble life."
Sir Walter Scott?Man
"Behind every book is the man." Understanding is the first thing we owe to the writer of a book. Scott's philosophy of life was Stoicism?"the noblest way of life" he calls it in his Journal. His kindliness and cheery disposition made him a lovable man. Born to be a "dweller in dreams, the historic past throbbed in his blood" crowding his life with old tales, old swords, old lances. Scott's feeling for Nature was deep and genuine. To Washington Irving he said, "If I did not see the heather at least once a year, I think I should die." He understood the human heart. He knew that goodness and badness are not geographical or social patterns but constant in human nature. His active principle of character was based on the theory that "not where men are but what they
682
do determines what they will become." Honor, loyalty, and truth were the chief elements of his religion. Believing that literature, not preaching has been the great civilizer, he taught in all his writings an appreciation of God and the world he created. In every relation of life Scott was as chivalrous as any of his knights.
Scott's latest biographer, Stephen Gwynn, closes his book thus: "He gave to the world, and he still gives, the privilege of his company; the right to be enchanted with his tales, and at the same time to drink in his love of courage, of generosity, of clemency, and of fidelity; to be instructed by his immense and varied store of knowledge, to share his delight in the force and beauty of colored speech; to partake in his wise and tolerant laughter. He will neither flout us nor lecture us, though we shall be left in no doubt upon what he holds honourable and what ignominious, and though we are more likely to learn from him how to make allowance for others than excuses for ourselves. The more one reads him, the more one reads about him, the more enviable those seem who were his friends and companions. But since no man that ever wrote had more gift for imparting his own enjoyments, we who are fortunate enough to share some of them have no need to complain."
Sir Walter Scott?Poet
"I am sensible that if there is anything good about my poetry it is a hurried frankness of composition which pleases soldiers, sailors, young people of bold and active disposition. I have been no sigher in the shades."?Scott, Journal.
Scott made his first appeal to the world as a poet. The inheritance of gypsy, rover, soldier in us responds to his
"Sound the clarion, fill the fife To all the sensual world proclaim One crowded hour of glorious life Is worth an age without a name."
In all literature there is no more beautiful dirge than "Coronach." Poetry was to Scott but the first
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
vehicle he found to carry the collection of Border tales and medieval romances which throbbed in his being. It is in the reading of the poems one catches first the full sweep of the ringing meter, it stirs the blood and the imagination and the true enjoyment comes when Scott's vitality and zest for life is caught as in?
"O! Young Lochinvar is come out of the west Through all the wide Border his steed was the best."
and?
"O listen, listen, ladies gay! No haughty feat of arms I tell; Soft is the note, and sad the lay, That mourns the lovely Rosabelle."
Sir Walter Scott considered the main end and object of poetry, music and painting to be the same; "that the powers of each of them rested not in furnishing the subjects of imagination ready dressed and served up, so much as in those happy and masterly touches which give play to the imagination, and exerted the fancy to act for itself by skilfully leading it to the formations of lofty conceptions."
Sir Walter Scott?Novelist
The novel is the modern epic, the popular form in which the life of our age is expressing itself. The novel has been widening its bounds since Defoe wrote "Robinson Crusoe." Before Scott the novel was merely a rambling adventure. Scott gave us the historical novel by making it embrace life in the past. Later Dickens made it a social record; Meredith made it a psychological study; Tolstoy gave it a social philosophy; the Russians have made it record the human soul. The novel must have all freedom if it is to reflect "All there is of life and death."
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Scott took a mass of life, medieval life, and displayed it in all its variety. His imagination nurtured by Border tales and ballads during the solitudes occasioned by lameness and his genius molded by Percy's Reliques of Ancient Poetry he became a narrator placing human passions in a halo of romance. Romance to Scott was not primarily the romance of love but the general romance of human life, of the world and its activities, and more especially the adventurous past. And so the panorama goes by knights, templars, palmers, crusaders, saints, lairds, ladies, bandits, and rovers; Saxon England, Norman England, Medieval France, and Scotland in turn form the background of the tapestry. Characters were not closely analyzed because the motive was the "pageanting of life." The greatness of Scott lay in "resting the interest of the novel on the unchanging fashions of the human heart."
Suggestions for Study
A. Materials
1. The Delight of Great Books..........Erskine
2. The Life of Scott.....................Lockhart
3. The Life of Sir Walter Scott........Gwynn
4. Private Letters of Sir Walter Scott...Partington
5. Sir Walter Scott...................Lang
6. Memoirs of Sir Walter Scott........Skene
7. The Friends of Sir Walter..........MacGunn
683
B. Projects
1. Songs of Scott set to music. a. "Soldier rest thy warfare o'er." b. "Hail to the Chief." c. "Coronach."
2. Readings. a. "Lochinvar." b. The conversation between Gurth and Wamba?"Ivanhoe," Ch. 1. c. "The Outlaw." d. "The Lay of Rosabelle."
3. Poems. a. "The Lady of the Lake." Note: Here a short synopsis of the poem could be given together with the reading of Canto III?The Gathering of the Clans.
4. Novels. a. "Ivanhoe"?a description of Saxon and Norman England. b. "The Talisman"?the story of the Crusades.
C. Suggestions.
1. The entire program could be comprised of short numbers including music, readings, a short biography, and stories from poems and novels, thus giving a broad view of the genius of Sir Walter Scott.
Social Service
(Fourth Week in January)
Lesson IV. TYPICAL BEHAVIOR IN CHILD GROWTH
Each child in each situation is a problem. The aim of this lesson is to help parents see clearly that they can't work by means of rules or formulae but must determine their course of action in each case by observing and interpreting the facts peculiar to each case. The importance of interpretation in such cases should be made clear to the class. The ability
684
to interpret a child in a situation is dependent in part on knowledge of general principles of child growth and development. Age is always changing. Maturity modifies all phases of child behavior.
Suggestions for Procedure: The teacher should call the attention of the class to the reading guide given below. The questions listed are answered in the reading material. Have the class do this reading before the discussion. The teacher should supplement by means of short lectures on the material given in "White House Conference 1930," pages 53-60 in which the general problem is discussed; page 62 where "mental growth" is defined. A class member may be assigned to report on the illustrative description of the four-year-old as described on page 157.
Reading guide for class members?"Growth," pp. 15-18.
1. What are the two practical uses to be made by parents of a knowledge of typical abilities manifested by children at various ages?
2. Just how does the author relate bodily and mental growth?
3. Does bodily growth generally precede by natural processes the development of nervous control of the various activities of the body?
4. Define "behavior" and "adapt" as used in the text.
5. How have the standards of behavior been determined?
6. How would you compare an individual child with the standards given? See also the supplementary material.
7. What two reasons are implied in the statement about the child feeding himself which must be considered in interpreting a child who seems not to be developing as rapidly as is indicated in the standards.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Supplementary material for class use:
I. Need for this lesson: "The new education already recognizes that the child has an inchoate, developing mind, and today vast strides are being made in fitting teaching procedures to that growing, developing mind. There is much theory, considerable investigation, and but little practice in arranging the child's life with regard to his physical development. The emotional side of the child is even less understood. There is an outstanding need for the facts of growth and development, and their relation to the adjustment of the child in the home and the school, to be in the hands of all whose lives touch the life of a child. When this happens, all education can be oriented to physical, mental, and emotional growth. The educative moment of each organ of the body will be taken advantage of and habits produced that in their sum total will finally appear as adult character." (Inskeep: Child Adjustment in Relation to Growth and Development, pp. 1-2).
II. Some Facts on growth. Physical growth is rhythmic?one part of the body grows more rapidly at one age and more slowly at other ages when other parts grow more rapidly. As each section of the body grows there is an harmonious development of all parts involved. When this harmony or rhythm of growth is upset there begin behavior problems. As growth proceeds in this way bodily proportions are different at different ages. No problem is more important for both health and behavior than the adjustment of school seating to these periods of physical growth. A class member could be asked with profit to study the local conditions of school seats and make a report to the class.
Curti describes the process briefly as follows: "The curve of general bodily growth as measured by weight and height rises regularly and steeply from three to about twelve. There is a rapid acceleration in both height and weight (the awkward age) between twelve and fourteen, which is one feature of the pre-pubertal changes that gradually result in a marked alteration of physical structure. At the same time, of course, definite and important internal growth changes are taking place. The curves for height and weight continue to rise until about seventeen, when the adult level is reached." (Curti: Child Psychology, pp. 78-79).
Height and weight tables are only indefinite measures of the normality of growth. Not too much significance should be given to them because of individual variations. Normal children will vary when measured by anatomical development from four to six years. It is very important that parents and teachers study anatomical age in making adjustments to children. Chronological age is not an index to real development.
Boys grow differently from girls. They seem to have the same periods of rapid and slow growth but these occur earlier in one sex than the other. Inskeep (pp. 18-19) presents the following table to show these differences:
HEIGHT
Boys More variable. Pubertal spurt at about thirteen years. Acceleration begins later and lasts longer.
685
Lower limbs grow most before fifteen years. At fifteen working boys taller. If growth is in normal increments before puberty it tends to be regular after puberty. Tall boys tend to become adolescent earlier than short boys. The pubertal spurt is sometimes preceded by a slight retardation in growth for height.
Girls Less variable. At seven years are a year nearer final growth. At twelve are two years nearer final growth. Average taller than boys from ten to fourteen years. Pubertal spurt at about eleven years. Acceleration begins earlier and is of shorter duration. Lower limbs grow most before twelve years. At fourteen working girls taller. Tend to reach final height earlier. If growth is in normal increments before puberty it tends to be regular after puberty. Tall girls tend to become adolescent earlier than short girls. The pubertal spurt is sometimes preceded by a slight retardation in growth for height.
WEIGHT
Boys Less variable. Heavier before six years. Heavier after sixteen years. WEIGHT
Boys Less variable. Heavier before six years. Heavier after sixteen years. Pubertal spurt in weight usually precedes the pubertal spurt in height.
Girls More variable in early years. Lighter before six years. Heavier nine years to sixteen years. Pubertal spurt in weight usually precedes the pubertal spurt in height. Increments of weight are higher from nine to thirteen years. Heavier for height.
A paragraph or two from the discussion of the table will indicate its significance: "The boy and the girl enter the primary school at the same age. Both are teething, but the girl is apt to be more nearly over the worst of the process of acquiring the first permanent teeth. By the time these children are ready for the second grade, the girl can sit longer without fidgeting because of tire, she can use her eyes longer, her muscular grasp of pencil and scissors is surer?she is a year older physically than the boy because she is a year nearer her final development. * * * The boy's writing is compared to the girl's and he is told to notice how much better and neater she does it. Her precision and quietness of movement are held up to him as a standard which he is alternately cajoled or commanded to reach. He is more immature, he tires sooner, he becomes restless, he is the naughty little boy that should be as quiet as good little Mary Jane. Some boys at this point develop a feeling of inferiority?a so-called inferiority complex?which lasts them throughout life. The majority, though, have virility enough to "start something" in the classroom. Why not show the teacher and the girls there is something, even if it is mischief, in which they can excel? Between seven and twelve, years fraught with the deepest of import for the child's future, the girl walks farther and farther ahead of the boy in her development. The schools continue to cling to the feminine standard and hold the boy up to a type of accessory muscular control and muscular coordination for which he is not yet ready. As the sexes near twelve, the problem of school discipline often becomes exceedingly acute. The boy becomes openly insolent in his rebellion, though he does not realize the cause of the trouble. The girl becomes supercilious and snippy in her superiority. She is becoming pubescent and her maturity of outlook, desire to appear well, and do the accepted thing, bring into high relief the angular, undeveloped, often slovenly boy.
"Give the boy a square deal from the
686
time he enters school. Take for granted that he will not ordinarily reach the girl's performance, so do not compare his work with hers. Nowhere in the world can comparisons be as odious as between sexes. Character, the sort that wears through life, is made best with only one kind of comparison, that with one's self. Make the classroom a place where success is possible because each boy's and each girl's work of today is compared with his or her work of yesterday, and improvement becomes a personal matter. All of this does not imply that there should be segregation of the sexes during the school years. Rather it suggests the scientific bases for a sympathetic understanding and evaluation of certain sex differences in growth during the educative period." (pp. 20-21)
III. The special problems of adolescence. The word "puberty" means the point in the development of the child when he or she first becomes capable of generation because of the maturing of the sex organs. "Adolescence" is defined as the period of growth or change from this point to maturity. The following descriptive statements are based on the discussion of this topic in Pechstein and McGregor: Psychology of the Junior High School Pupil.
The average age of puberty is the twelfth-thirteenth year among girls and the fourteenth year among boys.
The early adolescent period is marked by rapid bone and muscular growth followed by a slow growth of the trunk and general "filling-out" of the entire body.
Mental development seems to parallel physiological age somewhat closely so that school classification, recreational programs, etc., should be planned carefully in relation to physiological development.
Individualism, self expression, display, an effort to become an aggressive factor are tendencies that seem more prominent at this age.
The sex urge with its secondary
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
expressions in courtship, courtesy, parental interests, etc., is of course the center of emotional life.
Gregariousness, sympathy, kindness, and other social tendencies are expressed in participation in group activities.
New interests appear which seem to stimulate a greater activity of sensory discrimination.
The adolescent wants to know and to reason. Because of this there often seems to be an element of unpleasant independence. This is probably a misinterpretation. There is a real respect for leadership and guidance, but a refusal to accept mere dogma or general statements unsupported by facts and experience.
General intelligence matures. Future learning is an expansion of interests and the acquiring of a wealth of knowledge and analyzing life's problems by the use of the intellectual power that is developed.
Emotional disturbances are varied and intense. Enthusiasms develop rapidly. So, too, depressions and fears become marked. A natural social expression of the basic intellectual powers and physiological tendencies with sympathetic leadership will stabilize these emotions. The child shouldn't need "to fight" his way to adult rights.
IV. Heredity and Environment. An understanding of behavior as presented in this lesson implies that we know what to expect of a child at a given age. The first problem in doing this is to know how to interpret individual variations from the norms as presented. It needs to be repeated that everything studied in this lesson is in terms of averages to which the individual child will fit only approximately. The second real problem is to diagnose the child. His conformity will include both hereditary influ-
687
ences and environmental stimulations and rewards. Diet, clothing, crowding, overwork, poor ventilation, irregular sleep, no play, etc., are environmental forces that influence physical maturity. On the other hand heredity controls growth so that the rate at the beginning indicates the size at maturity.
Careful experimentations have shown (as reported in Part II of the Twenty-Seventh Yearbook of the National Society for the Study of Education) that children of marked differences in ability as measured by intelligence tests "cannot be equalized in achievement by equalization of opportunity."
"In conclusion it might be said that the final standing of an elementary-school class in relation to the other classes of the same half grade in a representative school system varies directly as the initial standing of the class is high or low, as the class is relatively over-age for the grade or under-age, as it is intelligent or unintelligent, and as it is taught by a teacher who is esteemed by her superiors or by one whose competence is not so well attested. Final achievement is a complex in which many factors are blended. Everything counts but nothing superlatively. Teachers are not miracle workers. In general, pupils and classes are not transformed in one semester or even in several. But there does seem to be a sort of differential pressure varying with the estimated ability of the teacher which, quite independently of other factors, parallels the variations in final achievement. It affects only very slightly the outcome of each semester of instruction, but its unique character suggests that the sum total of teacher influence on a given child or class would constitute very important data for the prediction of total elementary-school achievement. This uniqueness (approximate zero correlation between successive semesters or years) of teacher influence is probably the reason it is difficult to identify as a factor in achievement under ordinary school conditions of changing teachers. In general, each child or class in the course of an eight-year period is exposed to approximately average teaching ability, since there are about as many poor as
688
good teachers, and the effects of inferior instruction tend to cancel the effects of superior teaching in each individual case. Thus "quality of teaching received" is a fluctuating possession of a child or class, one almost impossible to identify, whereas intelligence and attainment-to-date, being present each year to about the same degree, are increasingly stable possessions which can be readily recognized and evaluated.
"Of all the environment influences by which we hope to improve humanity we are prone to depend most upon the teacher. Is it not significant that, as early as in the upper grades of the elementary school, if we consider only such relative achievement as actually takes place during one semester of instruction in reading comprehension, the influence of the teacher and evaluated. "Of all the environment influences by which we hope to improve humanity we are prone to depend most upon the teacher. Is it not significant that, as early as in the upper grades of the elementary school, if we consider only such relative achievement as actually takes place during one semester of instruction in reading. Comprehension, the influence of the teacher affords only a minor indication of the final standing in comparison with the influence of previous attainment and is far less important than that characteristic of each individual child (intelligence) which has attained such stability at three years of age as to justify predictions of future achievement? Nature and nurture seem to be inextricably intertwined, but he who would change markedly an individual's relative standing in school achievement by such teacher influence as has been measured here must not only begin early, but he must also insure a continuity of superior instruction."> (pp. 109) The reverse idea is also important. A child may have the ability to do, be endowed with power but if given no stimulus for expression, may even be inhibited from actually developing his power of control by parents or others. Or he may express a tendency naturally, receive an unpleasant reaction, and inhibit RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the tendency afterwards. These facts are referred to in the reading assigned for this lesson. Problem cases arise from failure to interpret childhood development. The following illustration shows how home tragedy may come from a failure to see how traits develop at puberty, though they may be somewhat delayed: "It was Hugh Norton's laziness, dirtiness, slovenliness and bad table manners which were largely responsible for the violence of his father's and mother's distaste for him?though other causes had helped to undermine their original parental love. Hugh was, they declared, an 'alien' in their otherwise congenial home; and the fact that he was making an excellent school record, was entirely honorable and truthful and had never brought the family name into any sort of disrepute, neither solaced them nor mitigated their aversion." (Sayles' "The Problem Child at Home, p. 50) References: 1. Inskeep: Child Adjustment in Relation to Growth and Development, pp. 1-2. 2. Curti: Child Psychology, pp. 79-89 3. Inskeep?Ibid, pp. 18-19. 4. Inskeep?Ibid, pp. 20-21. 5. Taylor: The Influence of the Teacher on Relative Class Standing: Part II, Twenty-Seventh Yearbook of the National Society for the Study of Education, pp. 109-10. 6. Sayles: The Problem Child at Home, p. 50.