out of the most beautiful stone and wood they could find. Second boy— Oh, now I know why this temple out here is so beautiful and is built of the best material in the world. No wonder every one says it is the most beautiful building in our state. First boy— Yes; that's where it started all right—and how those Saints did work! The men worked day and night. First girl— Yes, and just please remember that the women and girls did their share also. They were kept busy knitting and spinning clothes for those who were working on the temple. They also made carpets and draperies for the temple. Many of them gave up all the wool and cotton they had for their own clothes in order that the men might have the material for theirs. Second girl— Oh, by the way, speaking of what the women and girls did at that time, do you know that this wonderful Relief Society that we see here tonight was started, or organized, a few years later at Nauvoo. Then, there was not only sewing and spinning and cooking to be done, but there were a great many poor and sick among the Saints. They had to be nursed and cared for, so Joseph, the Prophet, called the sisters together and organized them into a Relief Society. It was organized seventy-eight years ago, and it has ever kept up the good work, until today, it is doing more for the poor and sick than any other girls' or women's organization in the world. Our Primary teacher told us that during the last war our Relief Society did more, and gave more wheat and foodstuffs to the world, in proportion to their numbers, than any other club or organization. So, I for one, am sure thankful to be here tonight trying to do my bit along with the Salt Lake stake Relief Society. Second boy— Yes, sir, speaking of the Kirtland temple, both the men and women, worked mighty hard at that time. It took three years to finish it. Say, wouldn't you like to have been there when it was dedicated? Just think! The Prophet Joseph Smith was there, and during the services many wonderful things happened. The Prophet told the people that the Lord had sent his angels down to rjoice with them. 146 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Third boy— Oh, yes, and don't you remember that just after they finished building the temple, the Saints were very poor? They © Second boy— Oh, that's how it started. Now, I know why I paid my tithing to the bishop last month. Third boy— What's that? ( Speaking of elephant under girl's arm.) Third girl Oh, that is what we made this month. JI wanted to buy "Not what we give but what we share, For the gift without the giver is bare." First girl— And while we were sewing, teacher told us a story. She said: "Once there was a good shepherd who had a small flock of sheep. Some were big mother sheep and some were little baby lambs. The good shepherd had a name for each one of his flock and when they were in any trouble, he would call them all by their names and they would come, for they knew his voice. Our heavenly Father is the Good Shepherd and we are his sheep and his lambs. Third girl— Not only that, but we Practiced some games and dances that we're going to use at our Christmas party. And by the way, do we all remember that memory gem that we learned today? T'll bet I know it. All— Say it! Third girl—: "Let the road be rough and dreary, And its end far out of sight; Foot it bravely—strong or weary— Trust in God, and do the right." THE PRIMARY FIRST AID TO RELIEF SOCIETY. 147 Fourth boy— But, say, folks, you have been telling when the temple building and tithing first started. Do you know how this great law of prohibition first started? You know the whole United States has that law now. Well, believe me, it started with the Saints over eighty years ago. They were so happy and thankful for their new home that they promised the Lord they would not only keep their minds pure and healthy but also their bodies. So they made a law that no whiskey or liquors of any kind should be made or used in their new home. Then the Lord revealed this law to the Prophet Joseph and he taught it to the Saints. Now, all the world is talking and fussing about this great law and making laws to stop people from drinking and making liquors, but if they want to know the true meaning of prohibition, just let them read and study our beautiful Word of Wisdom, which is found in Section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants. This law not only tells us that liquors and hot drinks are injurious to us but also tobacco and cigarettes. So, fellows, guess we boys had better learn the Word of Wisdom off by heart. We won't need to learn to smoke, but we have courage to say no, to anyone who even mentions tobacco to us. Third boy, pointing to south entrance— Here comes the missionary class. Maybe they'll sing for us.; Missionary class comes in and sings "The Army of the Living God," led by small boy. EMANCIPATED By Addie S. Pace Rejoice, O Woman! The day of thy thraldom is past, As man in God's image created Gifts equal—conceded at last. O Woman, beware! Stain not thy hand with the touch Of aught that detracts from thy mission Of motherhood;—God, too, gave thee such. Out of the World III. G. Milton Babcock. Several weeks passed, and three matters of great moment to Walter came into his life. First, he secured a position as assistant bookkeeper in a bank, in. Troy, at the small salary of five dollars a week. Second, he found himself taking a livelysinterest in certain twinkling blue eyes that flashed at him from the Sunday school class across from his own. He had known her for some time, but their experience in going over the dam together seemed to have awakened a particular concern in each other. They walked to and from church, and sometimes he called at the Whitman home, unknown to his aunt, for she was firmly opposed to Walter's bestowing any attention on girls at the tender age of seventeen. Thethird, and disconcerting thing, was the fact that, try as he might, he was unable to cast aside the thought of a God in whose image he was made. Several times he turned to the Articles of Religion in the back of his Prayer Book, the first of which read:; "There is but one living and true God, everlasting, without body, parts, or passions; of infinite power, wisdom, and goodness; the Maker, and Preserver of all things both visible and invisible. And in the unity of this Godhead there be three Persons, of one substance, power, and eternity; the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost." He had never paid much attention to the personality of the Supreme Being, his Sunday school teacher, years before, having told him that it was a "mystery." Now the Captain had appeared in his life and brought up the vexing question. A desire to hear more of the Captain's ideas seized hold of him. But how on earth could he get to talk with him? In the daytime the ferryman was busy, his boat having been raised and restored to service, and at night, Walter's every move was known to his aunt. "Ah, I've got it," he mumbled thoughtfully: "Today is Friday, and instead of going to church tonight, I'll skin up to the Captain's house-boat." That evening he started southward in the direction of the church, for Aunt Angie usually watched him from the bay window. A block away he turned and crossed the street to the opposite sidewalk, endeavoring to keep out of the glare of the big electric light at the corner. Hurrying northward, he soon found himself walking down the gangplank to the Captain's houseboat, OUT OF THE WORLD. 149 which was tied to the shore, a few hundred feet above the dam. The house-boat, an oblong affair, equivalent to about three ordinary-sized rooms, appealed to Walter's imagination. "How nice it must be,' he thought, "to sleep every night on the water, the boat rocking and the waves beating a gentle tatoo?' The tune of "Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep," came to his lips as he knocked on the door. — "Come in!" invited a deep voice. "Good evening, Captain Robbins." "How are ye, lad!" welcomed the captain heartily. "Pretty good, thank you. This is the first time I've been inside; you've certainly got it fixed up nice in here." "Aye, lad; it used to be so much better when my wife was livin'. What can I do for you, my boy?" he asked kindly. "Well, I'll tell you, Captain," said Walter hesitatingly: "I've been going to the Episcopal church ever since I can remember and never had occasion to doubt that it was right in every particular until I heard your argument with Reverend Arthur the other day. I can hardly believe that my minister is wrong, and yet, it seemed as if you had the Bible more or less on your side as against the Prayer Book. Of course, I've heard that you have peculiar religious views, and thought I would have a talk with you and see if you wouldn't tell me something about what you * believe." "Aye, lad, I'll be glad to tell ye my hull log of religion. There's tarnation few as'll give me a chance to talk with 'em. I knew a hull lot about the Bible—leastways, I reckoned I did— until one day a young feller blew onto my boat. "As he was the only passenger to go across and said he was in no hurry, we hove to. Somehow it got to blowin' on religion. A livin' gale struck me amidships and heeled me over. Aye, he could talk Bible! He said, lad, that we lived afore we came here, and that God was our Father—the Father of our spirits, was the way he put it—and that he was a man just like me, only of course, he was a perfect sort o' man. Said that our spirits left their home up above and came down here to go to school and learn more o' the rules of God. Then he said that most people believed that God was a bein' 'without body, parts, or passions.' " "Certainly, an' that's right,' I sez. "Agin I had to reef my sails. He sez: 'Adam talked with God, Moses saw him and talked with him, and he made himself known to all the prophets, down to Malachi.' "I couldn't gainsay him, lad; so he went on to tell me as how people believed in the Holy Trinity—that the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are one God. He said that that meant they all agreed with one another and not that they were a three-leafed 
 Affair like the Shamrock, or 4 three-headed animal o' some sort. Just to show that they were separate bein's, he spoke of the time Christ was baptized: 'There was Christ in the water,' said he, 'the Holy Ghost comin' from heaven in the shape of 2 dove, and a voice that said, 'This is My beloved Son in whom I am well pleased.' "Well, lad, it was time for my ferry to cast off, but on the way over he quoted the Bible to me py the fathom, and when he left, he said that he hoped some day to come pack this here way and talk with me agin. That's been mighty nigh onto a yeat now, and I ha'int seen him yet. I'd have loved to have talked with him more''n I did.: "So, lad, 1 got to tryin' these new rules on the prethren, and they just UP and mutinied and case me adrift—said it was "Goodness!" exclaimed Walter, an hour later, "it must be " after nine o'clock; I've got to get home." He had been so interested in the Captain's tale that he quite forgot the deception that he was practicing. From religion, the Captain had branched off to his younger days, when he commanded a freighter on the Great Lakes. After his health failed somewhat, he had retired and taken up the ferry at Green Island, expecting to spend the rest of his days there. "Come agin, ad; I'l allus pe glad to anchor an evenin' with ye," smiled the Captain penignly, as they shook hands in parting. A bright, full, spring moon beamed down on Walter as he tain's boat-house was the Yacht Club, founded by Walter s erandfather, the lights of the wharves stretching along the shore for a quarter-mile, while here and there danced a torchlight, besn order for the season. To the south, the slowly receding waters of the river still rushed over the dam with a mighty roar, the moon revealing the white foam so vividly that Walter turne with a shudder and went on his way. AS he neared home, he recognized Edith Whitman coming toward him. "Ts that you, Walter?" she hailed. "Oh, Walter, I'm so sorry, for I know how mean your aunt treats you," she said in "Well, you know you weren't to Prayer Meeting this evening; and just as I was going home, Reverend Arthur asked me to take a note to you for him. I asked your aunt if you were there, and she said, "No; didn't you see him at church?' Like 4 little fool, 1 said that you hadn't been to church and gave her the note for you. Then she said, "VI see about this business,' OUT OF THE WORLD. 151 and bid me a cool goodnight. You know, she never liked my folks, but I've never done anything to hurt her. Walter, I'm sorry if I've caused you any trouble," she regretted as he uttered an exclamation of dismay. "TVIL tell you, Edith, I skinned up to see Captain Robbins instead of going to church. I didn't tell her, for I knew she wouldn't let me go. Gee, I guess she'll be mad—I'll have to hurry home. Don't worry about me, though; and don't forget, I'll call for you Sunday morning to walk to church!" Walter's heart thumped loudly as he entered the house. The very atmosphere seemed charged with that depressing influence which always accompanied a scolding from Aunt Angie. "Where've you been, young man?" she demanded sternly. "Up to Captain Robbins." "What for?" "Oh, just to talk over our accident." "Tust as if you didnt know enough about that already! You needn't prevaricate, young man,' " she warned as he twitched uneasily. "I don't see why you've got to know every little move I make, aunty," he complained. "That'll do! Just so long as you live under this roof I'm going to know what's going on, and what you're up to. I—" "We were talking on the Bible, if you've got to know," interrupted Walter testily. "That's just what I suspected! Now, young man, for your lying to me and deceiving me, you'll stay in the house all day Sunday. I'll teach you to go a- -chasing up that old impostor instead of going to your church—which is bad enough. You get to bed this minute!' Walter sulkily obeyed, and as he undressed, he gave vent to his feelings: "Treats me just like a child. I didn't mind it so much when I was goin' to school, but I did think when I got to workin' I could have a little leeway," he muttered. "I'll be darned if I'll stand it," he snarled, as he viciously threw back the covers and hopped into bed. Burying his face in the pillow he almost gave way to angry tears. Then, as though out of patience with himself, he rolled sharply over to the front of the bed. At length, becoming calm, he threw up the curtain. The face in the moon seemed to grin shamelessly at him; and then—it audaciously winked an eye! "Never mind, Mr. Man-in-the-Moon, wink all ye wanta; but I'm going to take Edith Whitman to church next Sunday morning or my name'll be 'Dennis'!" he vowed defiantly. 
 IV. Easter morning came in all its purity, the radiant sun waking Walter from a restless slumber. Jumping gingerly out of bed, he proceeded to dress in his new suit. Suddenly, he remembered the happenings of the Friday before, and it took the spirit out of him for a moment, at the realization that he had been forbidden to go to church—Easter Sunday of all Sundays—when the choir was to sing special music, and he had been chosen to carry the Sunday school banner at the Children's Day exercises—and his aunt knew it! An uncomfortable silence brooded over the breakfast table, broken finally by Aunt Angie saying: "Walter, you may go to church this morning." Nothing further in the way of explanation, and Walter was too pleased and relieved at the change in her attitude to risk asking the reason. "Probably there'll be a good lecture later," he thought. "Maybe Uncle Billy's had something to say." Jauntily he strode out the alleyway to the street, and, turning to the right, he made for the big, brown house on the corner above. She was waiting for him in her new, gray Easter suit and big, black hat trimmed with red roses.; "Good morning, Walter," she greeted with a smile. "What did your aunt say to you the other night?" "Oh, nothing much," he replied evasively. "How do you like my new suit?" Chatting gaily, they started down the street. As they passed on the opposite side of the street from his uncle's, Walter saw out of the corner of his eye that his aunt had spied them from the bay window and had hurried out on the front porch. There she stood, her arms akimbo, glaring disapprovingly at them. It sent a shiver down Walter's spine, and he knew that there would be more trouble when he returned home. Edith did not seem to notice, but talked pleasantly of the happenings of Eastertime. The services dragged to Walter, and he was glad when they ~ started for home. On the way, he was unusually quiet and morose. Edith noticed it and inquired the reason. "Oh, nothing," he replied gloomily. "T'll bet your aunt is worrying you," she declared. "TI wouldn't put up with it if it was me. Mother says your aunt's too strict altogether." "T hardly know what to think, Edith. You know, she took me when I was a boy, and I don't doubt but that she means well by me, but it's pretty hard sometimes. I never do anything real bad; yet she is constantly after me about something or other. OUT OF THE WORLD. - 153 Well, here we are," he broke off as they approached the house: "suess I'll leave you right here." "Goodby, Walter. Take these," she murmured, smilingly offering him a few sweetpeas from her boquet. Hastily thrusting the flowers into his coat pocket, he hurried into the house. For once, his aunt seemed to have control of her feelings as she invited him into the parlor for an interview. Uncle Billy was sitting in his great chair as they came in, and, as usual on such occasions, he arose to retire—much as a cat routed from its comfortable place near the fireside. "You will please remain, William," she requested. Reluctantly he settled back in his chair. "Walter," she commenced, "I haven't much to say, but what I do say, I want you to remember. You have been with ts seven years now—since the time I took you from your mother. It is not necessary for me to refer to your circumstances then, only to cause you to realize what you were saved from. All these years I have brought you up as my own, giving you an education and doing everything within my power to make you a success in life. As I have told you before, I have had not only a love, but a sympathy for you, knowing what you went through when with your mother. You are now coming to a man's estate, but for all that, you are but a boy in experience. You think now that you are working and earning your living, you ought to have more privileges. In a sense, that is true; but there is one thing I must insist upon while you stay with me—at least until you are twenty-one—and that is, you must keep no steady company with any young lady. Your father married young—much too young, hardly knowing what he did—and I want tossave you from any indiscretion of this sort. I am not favorably impressed with the young lady you took to church this morning, and must insist that you refrain from escorting any girl to and from church. You are altogether too young for such things. You can't tell what it will lead to." On she went, in true puritanical style, Walter sitting in silence for some minutes after she stopped talking. The ticking of the clock on the mantel piece was the only sound to be heard. Suddenly, it struck the hour, awakening Walter to the idea of a defense. "Aunty, I don't see anything wrong about Edith. I have known her for a long time, and she teaches a class of girls the same age as my boys. I haven't any serious intentions, I can assure you, and I do not see where there is any harm in a fellow taking a girl to church on Easter morning." "There may be no harm in that," she interposed, "but it won't rest there. I have seen many a young man become in- 
 Fatuated with a girl far beneath him, and then, after it was too late, regret forever after that he did so. You ought to be thinking seriously of your future and making up your mind to educate yourself for something better than a mere bank bookkeeper." Presently, in. A none too pleasant frame of mind, Walter withdrew to his room. Thrusting his hand in his pocket, he drew therefrom the sweet peas Edith had given him. "I suppose my aunt would have a fit, if she knew I had these," he muttered despondently, as he pressed them between the leaves of his Bible. Friday evening of that week Walter went to a party at a young woman's home in Lansingburgh. As he left home, his aunt warned: "Remember, Walter; you must be home by ten 0 *clock, for I'shall lock the door at that time!" This was the usual notice, and, so far, Walter had scrupulously obeyed her commands in this regard, although it entailed his leaving a party at the height of the festivities; and, what is dear to the young life of every red-blooded boy—the privilege of taking his "girl" home—was denied him—for what girl would leave at nine-thirty or so? Walter left the gathering in plenty of time to arrive home by ten o'clock, but when he came to the Troy side of the bridge and endeavored to transfer, he found the cars tied up by a fire. He waited uneasily for some miutes, and finally started to walk the mile or so home. At 10:25 he arrived at the door—and found it locked. He knocked—gently at first—then harder, but no response. Dark, lowering clouds were disputing the right of the moon to sehine as he looked up, wondering where he would spend the night A feeling of resentment arose within him. Every dog in the neighborhood was aroused by the knocking, and the one upstairs came charging down intent upon driving the supposed intruder away, and it seemed to Walter that the animal would never recognize him and quit its barking. Angrily he turned toward the door and once more he knocked—louder than before. In a few seconds he heard his aunt stumping from her bedroom, and, upon unlocking the door, she' said, severely: "I will settle with you in the morning for this, young man—you can go to bed immediately!" Hotly he replied, "You won't have a chance to lock me out this way again! It wasn't my fault that I was late, and I don't see why you wanted to keep me standing out there like a criminal instead of letting me in when I first knocked." "That will do—none of your back talk b I only heard you knock once.' Before going to bed, Walter packed his suit-case. All night OUT OF THE WORLD. SS long he rolled and tossed. As he came out the bedroom door the next morning, suit-case in hand, he encountered his aunt. "Aut Angeline, I will say goodby—I have made up my mind to leave home. There is no happiness for either of us, and I think it will be better to—to—" He could say no more, for the tears welled up in his eyes and his voice choked. Falteringly he passed out the door—out of the home that had sheltered him for seven long, fruitful years—away from the woman who had been mother and father to him; out into the world to face its snares and temptations; out from the care of others to build for himself—on five dollars a week! Vv Troy was one of the first names Walter had lisped. Much of its history he knew, even though he did not know that it was called at various times Ferryhook, Ashley's Ferry, and VanderHeyden's Ferry, and that at a town meeting in 1789 the community was christened with its present name. He did know, however, that his people were among the earliest settlers of the city and county, more particularly toward the east in the town of Grafton. He knew that Stephen Van Rensselaer founded the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, in 1824—the oldest engineering school in the country—and that Mrs. Emma Willard established one of the oldest schools for women in the United States in 1821 in the city. He had seén old newspaper clippings telling of the greatness of Troy as a center of the steel and iron industry of the state, and how parts of the famous Monitor had been made there during Civil War times. Troy's present fame was due to the collar and shirt industry—the greatest in the world. Thousands of girls and women poured, at quitting time, from the great, modern factories that lined the river; and, Walter never quite forgot the day when, having occasion to go into one of the shops to see a friend, it seemed that the entire number of four hundred girls on the first floor stopped their electric sewing machines, with which they were doing "inserting," to smile at him. A June rain was falling—at times gentle and warm, then driving. Its fall, like the proverbial sparrows, did not pass unheeded, for Walter lay on his bed in the little room which he had rented on the top floor, listening to the chiming on the tin roof. Long years ago, it seemed, he had been lulled to sleep by the rainmusic, both on the old, worn tin roof and on the bedroom floor, when he and his mother lived in Bain's old house. Somehow, 
 Whenever he listened to the patter of rain on the roof, it brought back old, sad memories. Then he was a little boy in the care of his mother and what the world would allow the poor, patient woman; now he was his own master, thrown onto the world to shift for himself. And how poorly he had shifted in some respects! True, his landlady—kind, good-natured Mrs. Parley—took a special interest in the lad and did all she could to make his little room attractive, but the pulsing spirit of the youth always felt, upon returning to the room, like an escaped bird going back to its cage. He had managed to gather together fifteen dollars before Icaving his aunt's, five dollars of which he paid to join the Y. M. C. A. Always, in the past, his plea to join this organization had been met-with, "too expensive," and, "a waste of time." Wisely he had decided that the games and classes at the "Y" would help him while away many an otherwise profitless hour. He took great delight in playing basketball, but after the game in the early evening, he would stay up late playing pool at the "Y"—a game of which he grew to be very fond; too fond, in fact, for his own good, as it encouraged staying out late nights— something he had never done before. Then, too, in the matter of meals he was not overly careful, eating at various hours and often cheap, unnourishing food. Again, he was prone to worry about the past. The cashier of the bank and several of Walter's friends frowned upon him for the course he had pursued in leaving home, and at one time he thought he would lose his position. Ere the patter of the rain sounded faint and distant this June night, a plan entered Walter's head, the carrying out of which was to cause his life's path once more to swerve in a direction he dreamed not of. He would buy a bicycle on the installment plan and make the fifty-mile trip north to see a brother of his father's whom he had met once at Uncle Billy's and who had invited him to a visit! As the Fouth of July fell on Saturday, this would give him all day Sunday for his visit, and he could start for home by daylight Monday morning, arriving in time for the bank opening at ten o'clock.: (To be continued.)