WELFARE AND THE RELIEF SOCIETY As a woman, a wife, and a mother, and the keeper of the home, there are so many things that you can do to keep in tune with the spirit of this great program, and as officers in the Relief Society, it becomes your privilege to teach these principles to your sisters. Some of the most important ones might be summarized as follows: 1. Righteous living. If we keep the commandments of God, he will bless us with spiritual prosperity. 2. Every person self-sustaining. Church members should sustain themselves to the extent of their ability by their own labors. The Lord has said we shall not be idle. 3. Avoid public relief. We subscribe to the principle that we are our brother's keeper. We should be self-sustaining if possible. Children should be taught their responsibility, where parents are unable to provide for themselves. 4. Avoid debt. President Clark has said: "Let us avoid debt as we would avoid a plague. Where we are now in debt let us get out of debt." 5: Have enough food, clothing, and necessities on hand to take care of any emergency. We should be able to sustain ourselves for at least one year. 6. Live within our income. Families should budget their income so that desires are kept within the ability to pay. 7. Help provide employment where necessary. The Church has always counseled and recommended that mothers be in their home with their children and not seek employment outside of the home. Women should not be unnecessarily employed. 8. Save. Regardless of the size of our income, we should budget our affairs that 239 we might set aside some portion. This becomes our security and independence. G. Strive to own our own home. Stability comes to the family which owns its own home. We should strive to free our home from mortgage and debt. 10. Gladly accept welfare assignments. Working together in the program brings the strength we need to produce for those who may be less fortunate. 11. Keep the law of the fast. We will be benefited spiritually, and sufficient means will be in the hands of the bishops to take care of all the poor. 12. Be a living testimony. We should so live the principles of the Welfare Program that our example will inspire others. I am grateful for the inspired leadership which has formulated the course of action that teaches us to help those among us who need assistance. 'This is religion in action. This is the course ordained of God from the very beginning. I am grateful for the devoted sisters who stand with the Priesthood, and in their compassionate services and _assistance, strengthen the great cause in lifting our brothers and sisters by temporal means to spiritual heights. May we have the vision to clearly see the road ahead. God lives and this is his work. I bear witness that the Welfare Program comes to us by inspiration and revelation. It is part of living the gospel. I pray the Lord's blessings upon us as we continue to serve him and keep his commandments, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.