From Near and Far" and mentally assented to their words. But, today, it occurred to me while I was quilting a third lounging robe that some words of appreciation ought to be written. I made two robes that were so lovely and yet so practical that I am now making a third. I got the idea in the issue from the article by Holly B. Keddington, and decided that by quilting the robe she described, I could have something warm, yet washable and_ beautiful. I used nylon print for the top, dacron batt, and white nylon lining, so the robes will wash and wear and look lovely indeed. Prior to this I have made only wool flannel lounging robes. 'The quilted nylon robe makes a more practical gift, I think. I remember a few years ago an article came out showing some beautiful gold sprayed roses in a three-tiered epergne (The , , page 802). Since I had a large box of various kinds of artificial roses stored away, I made some up, and they were lovely. I still have the gold roses tucked away, and I found that paper roses sprav easiest and best. But the interesting thing about it all is that wherever I went I found that others had made these lovely gilded blossoms, too, and had read the article. I might add that my garden efforts are more successful because I read the Magazine garden articles, and they arouse my enthusiasm. I don't need to mention the food articles — as long as there are women who cook, new recipes will be eagerly sought after. I have heard all my life so much comment in praise of the Magazine that I think its worth, with some of us, is something like day and night — taken for granted. As a stake worker, I visited many wards and have heard women, as they express gratitude for the Relief Society organization, also express gratitude for the Magazine. I have heard them tell how they found stories, poems, editorials, or sermons therein that had solved some problem or had helped them in their daily life. Perhaps because I write, I have often been invited to speak in Sunday evening Relief Society programs, at stake leadership meetings, and March anniversary celebrations in other stakes and wards in surrounding areas, and I found that what was true in our stake was also true in these others. So I close with a wish that as long as there are Latter-day Saint women may there also be found the inspiration and blessing of our treasured Magazine.