Cancer Education, Research, and Service Rutherford L. Ellis Cl 121 irman Board of Di ecto T A OT f in Cary dyy TATISTICIANS tell us that in 1962 about 275,000 Americans will die of cancer; that over the years, the disease will strike in approximately two of three American families. Lifting from mankind the burden of cancers immense tool is one of the greatest challenges that face humanity. The American Cancer Society's Annual Educational and Fund-raising Crusade helps to meet these challenges. There has been encouraging progress. 'This year marks the 25th anniversary of the following two significant events in the American struggle to conquer cancer: 1. Enactment of a National Cancer Institute Act which created the National acer Institute. Launching by the American Cancer Society of its first Nation-wide, public — campaign out of which was to come a broad program of education, research, and service through voluntary support. The year 1962 has been designated "Cancer Progress Year." The objectives of the National Cancer Institute and the American Cancer Society in this year will be to report to the public on where science now stands in cancer research, to intensify the efforts being made to persuade the public to act for its own protection, to improve the care of the cancer patient, and to step up all programs to speed the final victory over cancer. There are now 1,100,000 Americans alive today, who have been cured of cancer. This means they are alive without evidence of the disease at least five years after diagnosis and treatment. An additional 700,000 cancer patients diagnosed and treated within the last five years will live to enter the ranks of those we call "cured." However, about 87,000 cancer patients will probably die in 1962, who might have been saved by earlier and better treatment. These needless deaths are a tragic reminder that we must redouble our efforts in this great fight. Join with the two million volunteers of the American Cancer Society and ""To Cure More, Give More." <a