A Compliment Cast on the Waters Evelyn Dorio O you ever feel as if you perform the million and one tasks around the house without anyone ever noticing or appreciating it? If you didn't put fresh water in the dog's dish, poor Fido would die of thirst; if you didn't pick up throw-away papers, the front lawn would sprout newsprint; if you didn't say, "This window screen needs replacing," your house would become headquarters for winged insects; if vou didn't. Such was my state of mind the morning the telephone rang and a co-worker of my husband's said, "Say, what's this special flower blooming in your patio today? Your husband says it's out of this world — six inches across, maybe seven, iridescent petals, and the stamens look like a white flower growing inside a bigger flower. What do you have, there? Did someone bring you a souvenir from outer space?" "It must be the hybrid epiphyllum," I replied. And when had my _ husband noticed all that? "Hybrid epiphyllum!" exclaimed the man. "That's my hobby. Will you exchange a cutting for a nice little citrus tree, tub and all? Grafted, too. You'll get oranges and lemons and pink grapefruit — maybe." After we hung up, I went outside to look at the "outer-space" flower. It really was exquisite. Sprinkling it earlier that morning, my thoughts had been too filled with self-pity to notice. But why hadn't my husband told me how beautiful it was? Instead, he told the whole office. Just wait until he gets home! But a moment later, I thought, no, if he had praised me, I would have felt a momentary pride, and the compliment would have ended there, died there. But since he needed to express it, the whole office was sharing this spectacular blossom. In the afternoon the epiphyllum hobbyist came to take colored slides of the flower, and within a week I had received a dozen compliments and exchanged cuttings with four other office people. Besides, my patio now has a tubbed citrus tree that may yield oranges and lemons and pink grapefruit — maybe.