NOTES FROM THE FIELD 307 Second row, sixth from the left: Martha Remington, theology class leader. Third row, at the left: Ethel Pulley, visiting teacher message leader. Back row, at the left: Elva Swensen, literature class leader. Merle White, Magazine representative, was absent when this picture was taken. Sister Tibbitts reports: "This group has presented inspirational songs for the Relicf Society anniversary stake social, Teton and Yellowstone Stake Relief Society convention, for funerals, and for the recent stake conference. Among a variety of numbers which they have enjoyed presenting was: 'Come, Ye Blessed of My Father,' composed by Florence J. Madsen." a ¢ ot x 7 OM Photograph submitted by Pauline H. Stevens BIG IIORN STAKE (WYOMING) HONORS FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS AT LUNCHEON, August 9, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Fay Hartson Harris (1937-43) of Lovell, Wyoming, honored for outstanding service during Relief Society centennial year, and for bringing ward and stake histories up to date and compiling them in a centennial book; Hulda Morrell Lynn (1943-45), now of Compton, California, honored for her work and direction in gathering $5 from each member for the Relief Society Building; Grace Alexander Allphin (1945-1948), of Lovell, Wyoming, honored for collecting clothing which was sent to war-torn Europe. Back row, standing, left to right: Amelia Harris Robertson (1948-1955), of Lovell, Wyoming, honored for helping to raise funds for the stake house and initiating visiting teacher conventions in the stake; Helena Danialson Belnap (1955-1957), now living in Tlinois, honored for the comparative chart she used to bring up attendance at Relief Society meetings; Pauline Rollins Stevens, of Cowley, Wyoming, present President. Sister Stevens reports that Sister Belnap and Sister Lynn were in Lovell, Wyoming, for a visit during the summer, and a luncheon was given on August gth, honoring all former presidents. Photograph submitted by Emily S. Romish POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO) PRESENTS PROGRAM "VISITING TEACHERS OF LANDS WHERE OUR MISSIONARIES LABOR" AT MAY SOCIAL, 1961 Emily S. Romish, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: "The picture is of four sisters from each of the six wards in our stake. These sisters represented the visiting teachers in foreign countries at the May social this year. The social honored the visiting teachers, and the theme was 'Visiting Teachers of Lands Where Our Missionaries Labor,' and 'Adapting the Visiting 'Teachers to Each Particular Home.' Beautiful musical selections were given to correlate with the theme. 'The program was under the direction of Violet Hart, Education Counselor, and Julia Robbins, chorister. At the conclusion of the program the sisters gathered in the recreation room to admire a display of handwork which had been made during the winter season and to be served light refreshments. The display was under direction of Letha Stevenson, Work Director Counselor, and Edla 'Toombs,