Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson. (Continued.) VI. Daylight and summer, which, of course, are synonymous in this land, were fast drawing to a close, and I was kept exceedingly busy while they lasted. In a few days the whole town knew of my presence. Then the tidings were carried to other towns and cities, until the startling news that a man had come from the great world outside the ice-barrier, was known to the whole land. First a sort of reception was given me at the house of my friends with whom I first lodged. They, it seemed, claimed the honor of introducing me to their countrymen and I was willing they should, as they treated me very kindly. 1 fear my wardrobe in those first days was not very presentable, yet I made out by a little sponging and the addition of some native clothing. My friends' large room was filled with men and women. There were no great differences in their manner of dress from what is usual in European lands, although the cloak and robe were more extensively used, giving them somewhat an oriental appearance. The men were well formed. They wore their hair trimmed and all the older men had beards. The women were beautiful. Their dress hung in graceful folds. Grace also was in their carriage, and nothing more could be desired in the matter of form and complexion. I, of course, was an object of great curiosity; yet, so perfect was their treatment of me that I did not feel in the least annoyed or uneasy. We tried to talk to each other. They smiled good naturedly at me, and I at them. I showed them my watch and tried to explain its use. Then I brought out my precious Bible and they handed it around, turning its leaves and trying to decipher some of the characters. The first few days I learned some names, and herein was my first surprise. Most of the names are undoubtedly, Bibical. The young man whom I had rescued was named David. His father was Joseph, and the twelve year old sister was Rachel. These names greatly puzzled me at first, but it became perfectly plain when I learned the history of this people. I had been fortunate in my bone-setting operation, and BEYOND ARSARETH 205 because of it, David was getting along nicely. I spent much of my time with him as he was pleased with my company. But in a few days I was urged to visit some of the other cities in the land. In fact, the great men and the learned men were asking for me and I had to go. Their lighter vehicles were quite comfortable and their horses took us along roads at a good speed. I found that I was in a land of farms and small cities. All were built on the same plan. I saw no traces of fortresses or buildings erected for defensive purposes. Nearly all the buildings were of stone, some hewn into blocks, and others covered with a plaster or cement. There was a sameness in the architecture of the dwelling houses, but in others that I took to be public buildings, there was a pleasing variety. The fields had all been harvested, and the gardens were quite bare; yet I could see that the land was very closely cultivated. All the barley grains were raised, besides an abundance of hay to provide for the winter. There are also grown a variety of vegetables and berries. x\s the darkness settled deeper and deeper over the land, the people became more quiet, and there was less hurry and traveling about. Preparations had about been completed for the winter. There were storehouses of wool and flax to be converted into clothing; there were feathers and down from the immense flocks of birds which lived near the ice-sheet. There were also granaries filled with grain to be made into meal and flour; in fact, there was all manner of raw material to be converted into finished articles. The whole summer season is occupied in gathering this material and the time for manufacturing is the period of cold and darkness. The land is well provided with coal. This is a wise provision of nature to be sure, as wood is not plentiful. A mineral oil is also obtained from the earth, but owing to imperfect refining it is quite crude. However, it is a great blessing during the long period of darkness, as it is burned in lamps, both in the houses and in the streets of the towns. The long, dark night is no doubt the reason why the people live in closely built towns and cities. Heat, light and sociability is what they need during this period of the year, and these needs are met remarkably well. Sometimes a whole town block is one continuous house built around its town streets, with an open court in the center. A system of heating by stoves and pipes gives comfort to these houses. Large halls warmed and lighted, connect living rooms, school rooms, work shops, and meeting halls, all of which may be located in the one enclosed group. Thus a thousand people 206 live in a community, each family separate from the other, yet the whole as one great patriarchal society. In the summer, everybody lives out in the open, warm sunlight, but in the winter the children go to school and the workers repair to the numerous work shops and factories. When darkness had come for certain that first winter I enjoyed myself at the home of Joseph and his wife Bethrah. They were very kind to me, treating me more like a son than like the stranger that I was. David, also, took a great liking to me, and even Rachel's fears were subdued and she would soon permit me to stroke her sunny hair and look into her blue eyes. Sometimes I would sing to her some simple ditties of my far-away home and then she would listen with wonder in her eyes at the strange words and tender melody. Father Joseph, as I have learned to call him, is a foreman in one of the mental work shops— that is, in the winter. Nearly everyone has two occupations, one in the summer, out of doors, the other, in the winter, within the protection of buildings. Father Joseph is also quite an important man in religious affairs, as he takes charge of the meetings every week in the room devoted to worship. He is a venerable looking man with such a placid expression on his face, that one cannot help liking him. I was given a room, which they made me to understand, was to be mine wherein I was to be at home. I appreciated this very much, because ofttimes I became tired of the strangeness around me, which, before I learned to understand the language, was a continuous strain on me. Then I became ill. I don't know what caused it, whether it was the continuous darkness, or whether it was a reaction of exposure in the ice. I did not know the nature of my illness either, but I had a high fever and became very weak. I was given the tenderest of care, and what I supposed were learned doctors came to me and prescribed for my illness. I have since learned what a stir the news of my illness made in the land. They could not afford to lose me before I had learned to impart to them my knowledge of the great unknown world — and so all that their skill and care could do was directed to me. However, I did not remain sick long, though for a time I was weak. And now how to spend the long weary hours of my enforced inactivity was a problem. I turned to my friendly grip, and there was my Bible. I seized it eagerly. Here, then was something — here were a multitude of people that would communicate with me in a language that I could understand. Blessed Book! I opened it and read. The BEYOND ARSARETH 207 words had the home-appearance to me — I read aloud and the sound was pleasant to my ears. But most wonderful of all, I found, that the Book was a very interesting one. I had had the notion, so common to young people where I had lived, that any religious or sacred literature must be dry and exceeding prosy; but here I found wonderful events; fascinating stories, and truths most beautiful. I read continually. The family became somewhat solicitous. and wondered at the book which had such interest for me. David spent part of his time at school and part in the work shop where his father was foreman, but he found time to visit with me, also, and I sometimes read aloud to him, much to his amusement. I read much in the Old Testament, the vast book being the most interesting. It read like the psalms, though why it might be hard to say; but the story of Christ was the most wonderful and interesting of all. As soon as I was strong enough, I went out — but that expression is hardly right because I did not go out into the open air for sometime. As I before noted, one can go through the long sheltered halls to any part of the community's gathering places, and so I could safely visit the many interesting scenes. Sometimes I went with Joseph to the work shop and at other times I visited the school where Rachel went. I was always treated with great respect, and was only sorry when I saw the eager faces of the children that I could not tell them of the world which lay outside of their limited country, on the other side of the great white barrier. Midwinter came, and then there was a great festival. The sun had turned now and was slowly coming back to us. All we needed was patience to do our present duty. Mine was simply to read my Bible, and learn the language of my new world, and I did my best at both. Placed as I was, I could not help making progress in the language, and so towards the close of the dark season, I could understand nearly all that was said in common conversation. My progress in speaking was slower, yet I could now make myself understood on many subjects. I usually went to religious worship along with Joseph. Every seventh day was a Sabbath, when every one rested and attended meetings. The services were very simple. There was singing and prayer, and then Father Joseph usually called on some person from the congregation to speak. Sometime there were visitors from other communities who did the preaching. At first I wondered what they were talking about — what kind of religion they had, and what they believed in. All religion 208 that I had ever known anything about was based on the Bible — but these people surely had no Bible — surely they had never even heard of Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world, about whom I had been reading — and then a thought came to me which thrilled my whole being — I had a Bible. I could teach these people the true religion and make them all Christians! I had imagined that the winter would be extremely cold; but in this I was mistaken. The snow did not fall very deep, and never was it too cold for well-clad people to be out The people were not greatly given to pleasure, but at times parties of young people would travel between towns in sleighs drawn by their sturdy ponies. Sometimes the sky was a beautiful sight, lighted by the gorgeous aurora, or northern light. This display is a wonder to me, as it is to all I know. Silently, great bands of many-colored lights come into the sky, until the whole upper dome is covered with strange figures, and great ribbons of light which wave to and fro as if they were shaken by a mighty, unseen hand. Silently they come, and as silently go — melting away into the depths of the sky. Many a time have I sat by the open window and seen such sights, and a number of times have I seen them in the fulness of their glory when I have joined a company of people in their excursions over the snow to their neighboring town. The laughter of the girls and the sweet beauty of their faces could not altogether draw my attention from the splendid panorama above me. At every new display I gazed aloft, and they laughed at me as much as they dared — the sight was common enough to them. (To be continued.)