ON THE WATCH TOWER 229 swept out portions of dams and several bridges, doing considerable damage. The fiftieth anniversary of granting the elective franchise to women in Utah was observed on February 12. Japan is now accused of territorial designs on the Asiatic continent, instead of America, and with much prospect of accuracy. Germany refused to surrender nearly 1,CX)0 accused "war guilty" officials, in February, and was allowed to give them trial in Germany, before a mixed court. Holland refused to allow the extradition of ex-Kaiser Wilhelm, but agreed in February to intern him at Doom castle, in Holland. Miss Arzella W. Symons, a highly esteemed young lady from Salt Lake City, died in the mission field at Independence, Mo., on February 12. Cardinal Logue. high Catholic church dignitary, joined others of his co-religionists on February 15. in declaring for Ireland's separation from England. The Russian transport "Karantin" was sunk in the Black Sea in February, being fired on by revolutionary troops, and 1,400 men, women and children were drowned. Admiral Robert E. Peary, who discovered the North Pole on April 6, 1919, died in February, aged 64 years. He had made seven Arctic trips. Elihu Root, of New York, America's most prominent statesman, has been chosen as one of the committee to arrange an international court under the league of nations. "The next great war" is now the subject of frequent mention by European statesmen, there being little reference to the recent conflict as "'the last world war." Palestine for the Jews is to be obtained only by toilsome and careful building up by the Jews themselves, is the announcement made in February, by Max Nordau, the eminent Zionist leader. Farmers throughout the United States have wisely declared to join with the labor unions in a political compact to place the United States under class control. Canada is now being urged, by those who endorse the Irish republic movement, to separate from Great Britain, on the son. basis of "self-determination" advocated by President call laborers for the United States are being urged in many parts of the union. The outcome, however, is likely to bring in the Mexican Indian in preference to the Mongolian. The soviet government in Russia became virtually master of the situation in nearly all of former Russia in February, and the surrounding nations found it necessary to enter into peace negotiations therewith. Mrs. Nellie B. Slingerland. president of the Daughters of Michigan, announced on February 15, that the women should establish a matriarchal form of government in the United States, as "the men have lost all sense of civilization." If it were only the men! Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, of Utah, who attended a political meeting at Denver in February, says Colorado is very considerate of women in public and official life. The suggestion should not be lost in Utah. Presidential aspirations for the 1920 United States election seemed in February to have narrowed down to Governor Lowden and General Wood as the leading republican candidates, and to Attorney General Palmer, ex-Secretary McAdoo and ex-Secretary Bryan as the front line of democratic candidates. The socialist investigation in New York in February brought out, from the attorney for those of that political faith, to get their statement way in that they believed politics. This is in a little shooting' thought different from either of the two great political parties. Congress passed a railway bill in February, opposed by the labor unions, preparatory to the railways going back to private control on March 1. It also considered bills for pro- ON THE WATCH TOWER 231 cedure in case of the president of the United States being incapacitated by illness or other cause to attend publicly to the duties of the office. Hungary, a new nation carved out of Austria, is said to be arranging a coalition with another such new nation, Jugo-Slavia, to make war on Italy the coming summer, and expects former southern Germany to come in and form a new Mittel Europa scheme. Mexican officials in February, announced that they expected all revolutionary movements in Mexico to be ended in 1921, upon the election and inauguration of a new president there. We shall see, when it is determined whether the new official is of Spanish or of Indian blood. Lack of children in a family was decreed by a court at Milan, Italy, to be a ground for divorcing the wife. The socialists then proposed in the Italian parliament a law making all marriages where there were no children, void, and the womanhood of civilized countries are joining in a well-justified protest. Influenza recurrence was forecast for this winter, in the October, 1919. number of the "Magazine," by Dr. A. C. Callister, and his indication proved correct. Fortunately the fatalities were not proportionately so great as in 1918. Dr. Callister makes the positive statement that in influenza cases "whisky is no benefit whatever; it is rather an injury." Bishop George Romney, who probably was the last living witness of the historic scene in the Church when the mantle of the Prophet Joseph rested on President Brigham Young, in the presence of a large congregation of the Saints at Nauvoo, Illinois, just after the Prophet's martyrdom in 1844, died in Salt Lake City on February 1. His testimony to the event was clear and forceful to the end. President Wilson demanded and obtained the resignation of Secretary of State Robert Lansing, in February, alleging that Mr. Lansing had held conferences of the president's cabinet during the latter's illness. This action caused a sensation both in the United States and Europe, where the reason given was not accepted as the real one. EDITORIAL Wintered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto — Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS President MRS. CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS First Counselor MRS. JULINA L. SMITH Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary MRS. SUSA YOUNG GATES. - - - Recording Secretary MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY - - Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth SI Wilcox Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily SL Richards Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. JuliaP. M. Parnsworth Mrs Donnette Smith Kesler Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Phoebe T. Beatie Mrs Elizabeth C. Crimson Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist Editor SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager...... JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager ----.- AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29, Bishops Building, Salt Lalk City, Utah Vol. VII APRIL. 1920 No. The Vision as the Answer to the Eternal Question Which of all the sects are right? Which of all the paths, trodden by the feet of men, lead to eternal glory? These are the eternal questions asked, at some period of life, by every soul. When the youthful prophet went into the grove, on that lovely spring day of 1820, his mind was fixed only upon learning which was right of all the paths trodden along the heights to heaven. This question concerns every woman, sometime in her life, and it shakes the soul of youth and maiden with fear and doubt, before they secure the answer. How may they know, in what way they may receive an answer? Not all may receive such a manifestation as was given the Prophet Joseph Smith, for his question was the question of the whole race, and his answer was the answer to the whole earth; yet each one of us long to have the question answered as perfectly and as satisfyingly as was his own. Just what answer have you received? You? and You? and You? Have you ever thought about it, or have you simply taken for granted the truth of that answer? Are you able to answer your son or your daughter, or the stranger within your gates? "A tree is known by its fruit," so says the Master, and EDITORIAL SS3 the fruits of the answer which was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith are glorious beyond description. You have the evidence before you every hour, but even that will not quite satisfy you nor me. How, then, did your answer come and how did mine? Which is the way, how shall I reach it, if I have found that way? Spirit answers spirit. If you ask of the man who has six truths mixed up with six errors, he will answer you according to his light. If you ask the man who has one truth with nine errors, he will answer you according to his light. If you ask of the spiritualists who are abroad in the earth seeking light through any channel, except through the power of the living God. in the name of Jesus Christ, you may be answered as the spirits are answering foolish seekers today; but if you ask of God "Who giveth liberally and upbraided not" you will get the answer which the Prophet Joseph received, and you will know as I know, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith had that marvelous Vision in the grove, wherein he saw with quickened eyes the Father, who pointed to his Son and said, "This is mv beloved Son, hear him." SHADOWS. Mrs. Parley Nelson. There's And in sadness in the of robin's the murmur the bee song. ; The world seems strange and dark to me. I gaze upon the woodland vales. Xo more they seem so wondrous fair; I look up to the mountain heights. But storm clouds cast a shadow there. I try to see my duty clear. To smile, though sorrow pierce my heart; I try to conquer doubt and fear. To hide my grief, and do my part. I try to walk the narrow way, To keep my face turned toward the light. And in my soul, I feel and know There's one who doeth all things right. Rexburg, Idaho.