[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 270 | PDF Page 283]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_04_10_SpFt_The_Woodbury.txt (337 bytes)]

--- PAGE 269 (PDF page 282) ---
MORE BLESSED TO RECEIVE

thought, with a flash of compassion.

Some days later, Douglas took Susan out for the afternoon and when they returned, it was to find people, busy with trowels and boxes of plants, crowding the garden.

"What's this?" Susan demanded, her face tight with dismay.

Douglas turned her round to face him. "This was Ken's idea. We thought it a good one. These are the folks you've helped for years. This is their way of thanking you — the labor of their hands. Are you going to tell them to leave, because it's your place, or accept the gifts we've brought, and will go on bringing as long as you'll let us?"

Susan's expression altered. Her eyes shone as she watched her friends. "I've been stupid to want to be independent. See how happy they look!"

Walking towards them, her voice lifted, joyously, "Douglas has just told me what you have planned. It's a wonderful surprise, and the best present I've had in my whole life."

Kenny, disheveled and earnest, appeared. "Is it a good garden party, Mum?"

Susan's laugh held the old merry ring. "It's the best idea you ever had, Ken," she assured him, and, sensing that his Mum was herself again, he beamed.

"Where d'you want these rose trees put?" he asked, importantly.

---

Quintet for Spring

Hazel Loomis

He came with spring full in his face.
Gone autumn's doubt, gone winter's seal.
Spring's garlands wove a path of lace,
A petaled spring was warm to feel.

The earth was bright and garden-green
Around about him where he knelt
Within a maple-wooded scene.
Oh, prayer, pierce sky! Oh, heaven, melt.

And forge from rock a holy stream
Of promise for a crying void
Or wisdom's lack!
Who was he to doubt the word?

A blackness — battle-pitched until
Spring burst, fire-opal bright,
With words so clean
They covered all the earth.

Oh, many springs are woven there —
A gentle path — a quiet wood —
Where he came alone for prayer. . . .
Tread lightly, lightly where he stood.

269

--- PAGE 270 (PDF page 283) ---
Springtime Thoughts
of a Happy Woman

Caroline Eyring Miner

To Be Happy

EVERYTHING has its beauty, but not everyone sees it," said Confucius. This idea is akin to the one of "taking your good time with you," in which case you are sure to have it. It is one of the great sins to have had the potential for happiness, which we all have, but to have failed in its realization.

The older I grow, and the more people I meet who carry grudges against this person and that, against this inconsiderate one and that, with innumerable alibis for not being happier, the more wonderful I think my mother was.

Mother was an optimist. Some criticized her for her undiscriminating tastes, as they labeled them. She thought there was no lovelier house than hers that just grew like Topsy or room at a time. She loved the little sleepy farming community in which she lived. She loved all the people in that town, just for their particular peculiarities and qualities. She loved each of her children, together with all their faults, of which she seemed strangely unaware. She enjoyed every little thing; golden dandelions, no matter in what annoying place they might be growing; spicy yellow roses that grew wild all over the place and were a detestable nuisance to everyone else. She had a moving picture of color TV, long before the invention, in the magnificent Arizona sunsets, which she so extravagantly praised. She was one person on whom "nothing was lost" that could bring her happiness.

The Listener's Part

AS a speaker in your service, I have a duty to deliver to you the speech I have prepared for you. You have a duty, too," the speaker continued. "Your responsibility is to listen and absorb and apply. Now, if you get through listening before I get through speaking, just raise your hands and I'll stop."

It worked like magic. With such a challenge, people listened and didn't get through before the speaker did. The very fact that they listened motivated them to gain from the talk.

The listener's part is less dramatic than that of the speaker, but it is every bit as significant. When we are speaking we are only giving forth what we already know, but when we listen we may learn something new.

Being Educated

BEING educated means to prefer the best not only to the worst but to the second best," said the philosopher, William Lyon Phelps. Often we are put on the spot to justify an education for a person if he does not make more money than an uneducated person, and surprisingly enough, many do not.

The above quotation is one good reason for having an education — to raise one's tastes; to lift standards; to help one be satisfied with only the best — the best literature, the best homemaking, the best performance in any art. Especially is it necessary for one to set a high standard in Church service. Only excellence is worthy of the Lord.

270

--- PAGE 271 (PDF page 284) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman figure embracing a globe/earth]

Lt. Colonel Harriet W. Worley, of the United States Army Nurse Corps, received the Legion of Merit award, the Nation's second highest peacetime award, at Fort Douglas, Utah, in January. Authorized by the President of the United States, the citation reads: "With rare foresight, mature judgment, keen and analytical ability and resourcefulness, she developed the first Army Nurse Corps Career Management program, and was the innovator of formal nursing research and development in the Army."

Mothers in Utah have the lowest infant mortality rate (20.3 per 1,000 live births) in the United States, according to Dr. Joseph P. Kesler, Director, Department of Children's Services, Utah State Department of Health. Among the factors involved in this record, Dr. Kesler lists the following: a higher educational level of the mothers, resulting in better infant care; a relatively low rate of cigarette smoking by mothers; relatively good hygienic and sanitary standards in the home; and the birth of more than ninety-nine per cent of all Utah babies in hospitals.

Mary G. Roebling, who is a bank president, predicts, "Within the next decade we will see a tremendous increase in the number of women occupying top managerial positions."

Queen Frederika of Greece and her daughter, Princess Irene, twenty-two, arrived in New York January 22, for a brief visit in the United States. The Queen, a highly intelligent and well educated woman, received an honorary doctor of laws degree from Columbia University, and observed American television programs.

Margaret Chase Smith, senior Senator from Maine, on January 27, entered the race for the Republican nomination for President of the United States. First woman to enter actively such a campaign in a major party, her name will be presented in primaries in New Hampshire and Illinois and probably in the District of Columbia and Oregon. Mrs. Smith served in the House of Representatives from 1940-1948 and in the Senate since 1948. She is noted for faithful attendance at Senate sessions and committee meetings, being a member of two powerful committees, the Aeronautical and Space Sciences Committee and the Armed Services and Appropriations Committee.

There are 57,926,000 women of voting age in the United States. That is approximately 3,828,000 more than the men of voting age in the country. Women could actually control political situations, but they rarely vote as a block. Polls show that more men than women are favorable to the idea of having a woman president.

271

--- PAGE 272 (PDF page 285) ---
EDITORIAL

Volume 51    April 1964    Number 4

• Belle S. Spafford, President
• Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
• Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
• Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer

Relief Society Time at the New York World's Fair

June 24-25, 1964

As the Church has moved out of the wilderness since it was organized in 1830 so, under the guidance of the Priesthood, Relief Society has moved with it. As the gospel is brought to different nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, the divine organization for women — the Relief Society — is also constituted to do the work assigned by the Church to Church women.

With the great impetus today from the inspired plans of acceleration in Church government, Relief Society, as the companion organization to the Priesthood, moves forward in like tempo with expanded programs. Its Singing Mothers have won signal recognition in many parts of the Church, none greater than the 1961 International Chorus of Singing Mothers which combined singers from Utah with singers from the British Isles under the leadership of Sister Florence J. Madsen. Now, at the New York World's Fair, Singing Mothers Concerts are to be given under the direction of the General Board on the afternoons of June 24 and 25, 1964. The Singing Mothers will all be from the New York, New Jersey, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, and Potomac Stakes. Mrs. Ellen Neilson Barnes, chorister of the Washington Stake Relief Society, will conduct the two concerts. Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, chairman of the General Board's music committee, will be associated with Mrs. Barnes in presenting numbers at the concerts. Mrs. Barnes and Mrs. Madsen are both graduates of the New England Conservatory of Music and both are experienced in conducting Singing

272