[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 162 | PDF Page 171]
[Title: Frontispiece (p161) + From Near and Far (p162)]

--- PAGE 161 (PDF page 170) ---
The Heart Looks Up

Linnie F. Robinson

Someone has touched the valley and the hill,
In warmth of wind or whisper on dead grass,
Then green comes glowing from the darkened earth
And the miracle of spring has come to pass.
While on the hill, resplendent in array,
Beneath the crags and caught in every wood
Flashes the gold of fragile daffodils,
And violets peeping blue from every hood.

And in the air the robins come to sing
The furling bud, the warm and waking hour;
Blue skies deepen, untouched by wintry cloud,
With promised bloom on every trellised bower.

Someone has waked the valley and the hill —
The heart looks up and reads his prescient will.

The Cover:    Big Cottonwood Canyon, Utah
              Transparency by L. Paul Roberts
              Lithographed in Full Color by Deserret News Press

Frontispiece: Blossoms, Near Sebastopol, California
              Photograph by Don Knight

Art Layout:   Dick Scopes
Illustrations: Mary Scopes

--- PAGE 162 (PDF page 171) ---
From Near and Far

My neighbor who was ill in the hospital asked for something new and different to read. I took her The Relief Society Magazine — small and easy to handle and with a very colorful cover. She was delighted, and read it immediately. Then the night nurse saw it lying on the bed and asked what kind of magazine it was, and if she might read it. My neighbor told her she was welcome to read the Magazine, but to be sure to return it. The next night the nurse returned the Magazine. She had especially enjoyed the stories and recipes. When my neighbor was being brought home from the hospital the woman who was taking her home asked to read the Magazine. She liked the stories and poems. All this created an interest in the Church, and the woman who took my neighbor home from the hospital is to be baptized at our next baptism day. Let's every one of us be a missionary.

Geneva Cluff
Phoenix, Arizona

Thank you for the beautiful Magazine. We sell more Relief Society Magazines each year, and we know they will help each subscriber to gain a testimony of the gospel, and also help to make a happier home by following the instructions pertaining to becoming a better wife, mother, and homemaker.

Laura R. Shimp
President
Huntington Park Stake
Relief Society,
California

I really appreciate and love the Magazine, and my twelve-year-old daughter reads it before I get a chance, part of the time. Thank you for the Magazine and the lovely lessons.

Beverly Culwell
North Little Rock
Arkansas

I enjoy my Relief Society Magazine very much, and I have saved all the Magazines since I joined the Church. Today, I have parted with some of the Magazines, and I know that some of them will never return, but I am sure the older ladies in the nursing home where I sent them will enjoy them, because they are small enough to handle in bed. The stories and lessons are not so long that they would lose interest in reading them.

Mrs. Audrey Warren
Charles City, Iowa

The visiting teacher message for the month of October ("Where, I Say Unto You, That Ye Ought to Forgive One Another," by Christine H. Robinson) is one of the best lessons I have ever taught. It is put together so beautifully.

Mrs. Dee Phillips
Ferndale, Michigan

As a young mother, with four children, and a husband in his bishopric, I find the Magazine a great source of inspiration and encouragement. Whenever I feel blue or discouraged, I can always find just the right article to touch my heart and inspire me to do better.

Sharon T. Koster
Provo, Utah

I am a girl of fifteen and I received the lovely Relief Society Magazine as a Christmas gift two years ago from my grandmother. I love the beautiful covers and enjoy the stories very much, as well as the poetry in each issue. May I say it is not only the older women, but also the girls of my age who read and love the Magazine. From a future Relief Society member.

Marilyn Child
Springville, Utah

162

--- PAGE 163 (PDF page 172) ---
The Relief Society Magazine

MARCH 1964    VOLUME 51    NUMBER 3

Editor    Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor    Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager    Belle S. Spafford

Special Features
164    Train Up a Child    Marion G. Romney
170    "Charity Never Faileth"    Edith P. Backman
184    The American Red Cross and Its Blood Donor Program    Perkins McGuire
216    What Does Your Speech Reveal?    Myrtle Henderson
235    My Father's Violin    Afton Brown

Fiction
173    Someone to Cheer for Johnny — Third Prize Story    Myrtle M. Dean
188    More Value Than Many Sparrows    Margaret Woods
213    Second Chance    Blanche M. Hollingsworth
220    Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 2    Hazel M. Thomson

General Features
162    From Near and Far
181    Woman's Sphere    Ramona W. Cannon
182    Editorial: We Are the Beneficiaries    Louise W. Madsen
228    Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities    Hulda Parker
240    Birthday Congratulations

The Home - Inside and Out
185    Don't You Love Your Sisters!    Margaret Russell
191    The World's Favorite Roses    Dorothy J. Roberts
198    Painting With Glass    Florian H. Thayn
204    Parleys Sixth Ward Country Fair Bazaar    VaLora M. Anderson
209    Planning a Successful Bazaar    Louise W. Madsen
212    Recipes for Springtime
       Charlotte Russe    Ingrid W. Olsen
       Desserts That Please the Family    Florence K. Gates
219    Cast Your Bread Upon the Waters    Olive Sharp
227    Charlotte H. Singley — Landscape Artist

Poetry
161    The Heart Looks Up — Frontispiece    Linnie F. Robinson

On Spring and Love, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 172; Spring, by Rowena Jensen Bills, 180; 
Who Plants a Garden, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 190; Curled in Seed, by Alice Morrey 
Bailey, 197; Fawn at the Pool, by Thelma J. Lund, 218; Our Chapel, by Margaret B. Shoemaker, 219; Feather Grief, by Ida Elaine James, 236; Pathway, by Catherine B. Bowles, 237; 
Exile, by Gilean Douglas, 239; Thanks for These, by Caroline Eyring Miner, 240.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

163

--- PAGE 164 (PDF page 173) ---
Train up a Child

Marion G. Romney
of The Council of the Twelve

[Address Delivered at The Relief Society
Annual General Conference
October 3, 1963]

My beloved sisters: To me it is a signal honor to have been named one of your advisers. I intend to do my best to render such service as the calling entails.

I have thought to address you today as mothers on a text taken from the wise man's proverb: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6).

The selection of this text was prompted by my conviction that training our children is our best antidote to the godless materialism, irreverent secularism, declining morality, adult crime, juvenile delinquency, increasing crime, and general disregard for the laws of God and the dignity of man which so plague our present society.

It is not my purpose to harrow up your souls by dwelling upon this sordid aspect of our times. My only purpose in calling it to your attention at all is my belief that unless these pernicious practices are checked, they presage the end of our way of life and my further conviction that you, as members of the Relief Society, have the potential to inspire the parents of the Church, particularly mothers, more effectively to train their children to avoid them. The Church can and will assist in that training. But it can only assist. It is not and cannot be a substitute for parents in this, their most urgent parental responsibility.

The importance of this responsibility was emphasized by the Lord in the very early days of the Restored Church. ". . . inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, [he said] . . . that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents" (D&C 68:25).

Eighteen months later he explained that all children are innocent before him in their infant state, but thereafter ". . . that wicked one cometh and [by persuading them to disobedience] taketh away light and truth. . . .

"But [he continues] I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth" (D&C 93:39-40).

He then spoke directly to some of the leading brethren, first to Frederick G. Williams. "You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction." I wonder if some of our afflictions, some of our juvenile delinquency, for example, could be due to the fact that we have

164