[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 77 | PDF Page 78]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 77 (PDF page 78) ---
things of this world can and do become so important that they interfere with the discharge of our assignments in the Church. The rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven and can only be controlled upon the principles of righteousness.

One cannot serve the Lord satisfactorily in any office or calling in this Church unless the principles of righteousness and the purpose of the Church hold first place in one's thinking and acting. There is no place for substitutes, or halfway marks in this particular. The inability to achieve this dedication is why "many are called but few are chosen." They may not be chosen because of their failure to use the opportunity and knowledge with which they have been blessed to pursue the work of the Lord. (See D & C 95:5-6.)

2. Love, the Guiding and Ruling Principle of Authority of the Church. Once again we return to the oft referred to and divine characteristic of love of fellow men. In the following quotation, the importance and power of love as the dominant motivation in the Priesthood is forcefully presented.

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned;

By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile—

Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy;

That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death.

Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven.

The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever (D & C 121:41-46).

To execute one's calling properly in this Church, a person should study and follow the counsel of Section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants.

[BOXED ADVERTISEMENT]
LET US HELP YOU TRAVEL WORRY FREE
TO
HAWAII and SOUTH PACIFIC
(New low fares)
EUROPE
21 Day Excursion Tours
(Save 30%)
BOOK OF MORMON LAND TOUR—Jan. 16th
THE HOLY LAND
including Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel Turkey, Greece and Italy
(With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon—March 5th)
HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT
August 6th
including World Fair in New York
(With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon)
(Authorized Agent for all Domestic and International Carriers)
MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC.
(Bonded)
(Your Experienced Travel Counselor)
14 South Main Street
328-3161
Salt Lake City
"There is no substitute for experience!"

77
