[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 808 | PDF Page 843]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 808 (PDF page 843) ---
HOME
The Child
Training Center

President Belle S. Spafford

[Address Delivered at the General
Session of the Relief Society Annual
General Conference, September 30, 1964]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

"THE wisdom of the ages" is a phrase frequently used, implying that the experiences of eons of time have proved certain statements to be true and certain courses of action to be judicious, prudent, sensible, and good. In the history of the world, perhaps none other, save the Master himself, is so well known for his wisdom as is King Solomon who reigned over ancient Israel. Scripture records that in Gibeon the Lord appeared in a dream by night to Solomon who had succeeded King David as ruler of Israel, and God said, "Ask what I shall give thee?" and Solomon replied:

Give thy servant therefore an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad. . . . And the speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing. And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing and hast not asked for thyself long life; neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies; but has asked for thyself under-

standing to discern judgment; Behold I have done according to thy word: lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart; so that there hath been none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee (1 Kings 3:5, 9-12).

The importance of an understanding heart for those who would govern others, and the wise sayings of King Solomon constitute an important part of the wisdom of the ages. Among the wisdom words of Solomon worthy of contemplation by mothers of the Church today are these: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6).

Today social life has become complex and social ills pronounced. Mothers sometimes wonder if indeed it is possible to rear the child so as to assure the righteousness of the man of maturity.

Ever before us are unsettling, even frightening reports and ac-

804
