[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 112 | PDF Page 117]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 112 (PDF page 117) ---
National Children's Dental Health Week

February 2 - 8, 1964
"Keep Your Smile — Take Care of Your Teeth"
American Dental Association

CORRECT diagnosis and treatment of irregular tooth position and jaw relationship in early youth can have immeasurable benefits throughout life. The most critical period of dental development occurs during the change from the primary to the secondary dentition. Not only will the biting and chewing process benefit with proper orthodontic treatment, but in the absence of marked malocclusion (irregular tooth position), severe periodontal (gum) disease rarely exists. The "baby" teeth not only serve for biting and chewing, but they maintain the arch length for the permanent teeth. Loss of this arch length occurs when a tooth is removed and no measure taken to maintain the space. Restorations must be properly contoured to maintain contact, and thereby insure space for the permanent successors. At about eight years of age, the child enters the "early mixed dentition period," when the four permanent incisors (front teeth) and the four first permanent molars have replaced the primary teeth. It is at this time when overcrowding may occur and cause unaligned teeth. When the child is about eleven or twelve, and most of the permanent teeth are in, the child should be carefully checked to see that the proper fitting together of the teeth is developing normally. Even in adult dentition all missing teeth should be promptly replaced.

Did the Groundhog See His Shadow?

Evalyn M. Sandberg

With gold stuffed in hip pockets,
Bees labor through blue skies
From feather-bloomed acacia
In a month that, otherwise,
The calendar calls winter.
But snow forgot to fall;
And an almond tree, amazingly,
Drops petals on a wall.
There is an oak upon the hillside
Beneath which I would lie
While cotton-candy cumulus
Careens across the sky.
No leaden hours to underscore
One hint of doubt or fear —
This must be summer gladness
Come earlier this year.

112
