[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 734 | PDF Page 769]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_10_01_Poem_Leaf_By_Findlay.txt (437 bytes)]

--- PAGE 733 (PDF page 768) ---
THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

utes of five. Karl came almost immediately behind her. As they left and she handed him the lunch basket, he said, "Surely this is not just for two?"

"I could join you," said Maria quickly. Then, with a mischievous grin, she added, "But I won't."

They both walked over to the funicular railroad. Elsa wondered if Karl had the money for the ride and suggested, "We could walk up, you know. It isn't such a hard climb — and it's a lovely evening."

"Oh, no! I want to try this straight-up railroad," he replied. "Perhaps, if it is still light enough, we can walk down."

He bought tickets and they settled themselves in the straight-up railroad car. It took only a few minutes to reach the top, and from there they took a path along the side of the mountain until they came to a lovely spot where there was a clear view of the river and the valley below.

"Will this do?" asked Elsa.

Karl took a deep breath. "Ah, this would do to stay forever! Never have I seen so much beauty."

"We can't very well stay forever," she replied, smiling. "Although, from the looks of this lunch, that is what Mother had in mind. However, we can come back again."

"Oh, I do hope so. I hope that we can come often."

Elsa laid papers on the grass and the snowy cloth over them. She drew forth sandwiches made from crusty rolls and leftovers from yesterday's meat. There were pickles, cheese, and some small fancy pastries.

THEY ate almost in silence. Below the Neckar River wound its way through the lush valley to join the Rhine. The sweep of the mountainsides was broken near the base by the spacious grounds and dull red battlements of the ancient castle.

"You were very fortunate during the war," observed Karl. "Your city was not hurt."

"Yes," Elsa agreed. "In that we were fortunate."

"In o t h e r ways — not so much?" he asked gently.

"I was too young to remember much about it. We lost our father. Maria does not remember him at all. He was a good and kind man."

"Yes. It is well to remember always the good — and to have the good to remember." Turning to look down at the Neckar again, he said, "I should like to take a trip some day up the river. It must be most enchanting."

"Yes," Elsa agreed. "But I want to go the other way. I want to go down where the Neckar joins the Rhine and then on to the ocean."

"And then . . . ?"

"Oh, on across the ocean, of course."

"And on around the world and back to Heidelberg," he went on, as if it were all a fantasy.

"Of course," she answered lightly.

After finishing lunch, they walked up the path a short distance. Then Elsa said, "If we start now, we can take one of the roads back to town. It is a delightful walk — when one is going downhill."

"Then let us go." He stopped where they had lunched and gathered a dozen small stones.

733

--- PAGE 734 (PDF page 769) ---
OCTOBER 1964

Then he put them in a little heap.
"What in the world is that for?" she asked.
"To mark the spot — the most beautiful in the world. So that we can find it when we come again."
"And do you think the stones will stay? The first small boy who comes along will use them to toss down the side of the mountain."
"So? Well, it does not matter. It is marked well enough up here." He tapped his forehead.
Elsa smiled and started down the path. Before they reached town, the first lights had begun to flicker. They lit up the Old Bridge above the dark river and an occasional building at the University, where some students were still at work.
Karl reached for her hand and his grasp was warm and sure. There was strength and stability in this man. She glanced down at the river where the boats were floating slowly down towards the Rhine and withdrew her hand. Her heart was in one of those boats — floating down towards the Rhine.

(To be continued)

Why?

Linnie M. Findlay

Earth's gift of life is rich and full
    Free given, not yet earned;
Some time to hear earth's wisdom,
    To ponder lessons learned.

The call to share in freedom's light,
    The reaching up for truth,
The growth of giving service,
    The charge of leading youth.

The comfort of a place called home,
    Warm joys of family,
Familiar soil where flowers grow,
    A garden and a tree.

Bewildered by earth's generous gift
    That grows from year to year —
Stretch wide my understanding
    Of my full purpose here.

734

--- PAGE 735 (PDF page 770) ---
[ILLUSTRATION: Woman in 1960s style clothing and hairstyle sitting at a desk, reading a book]

A Scenic View of the
Literature Lessons                    Vilate R. McAllister

"You'll find the lesson previews in the June issue of the Magazine," said the president of the Relief Society, "in case you want to get started on them this summer. And thank you so much. I am sure you will thoroughly enjoy conducting the literature lessons."

I saw her to her car, then returned to the living room and sat down, completely overwhelmed. "What is the matter with me? I should have told her I couldn't do it. Surely she could have found someone more qualified than I, someone whose education is not so limited, and who doesn't tremble in fear before a group of people."

But she had been so sure it was inspiration that led her to me and, after all, I do have plenty of time, a boon not everyone enjoys. "It will be a matter of lots of study," I told myself and went in search of that June issue.

I read the preview, consisting of a short introduction and a listing of the subject each month, together with the objective for each lesson. A feeling came over me that I recognized as from a past experience. It was the feeling I had when I first came to Salt Lake City, and, having been

735

--- PAGE 736 (PDF page 771) ---
OCTOBER 1964

informed that the east side of the city is rimmed with canyons whose streams furnish water for the thirsty valley below, had been driven around Wasatch Boulevard, past the mouths of seven or eight canyons, each one being named as we came to it. A glimpse, surely, but only a glimpse of the wonders in store for me when I should come to drive into the canyons, explore them, and make them mine. I could hardly wait for the July issue, so I could "drive" into that first lesson.

Finally it arrived, and I turned immediately to the lesson, something I had never done before. Avidly I read it, and again experienced a nostalgic feeling, the emotions I had on my first drive into Big Cottonwood Canyon. I remembered the exhilaration, the fresh air, the sunshine, the crags and forested slopes, the gurgling stream, the winding road with a fresh vista at every turn. With slight variations, I had experienced the same never-to-be-forgotten thrills, as I had opportunity later to visit each canyon in turn. But I knew that first drive had not prepared me to be a guide to others on a scenic trip, any more than the first cursory reading of the lesson prepared me to guide a roomful of Relief Society sisters into the joyous experience I felt was in store for them.

Since it seemed a moment for profitable meditation, I allowed myself to go back into my later experiences with the canyons. I had met an artist, who had pointed out to me the magnificence of certain peaks, the changing lights and seasons, the shadows of the forest, the picturesqueness of small secenes along the stream, with the overhanging boughs and churning water. On another occasion, a naturalist had called my attention to various and numerous flora and fauna, all pursuing the purposes of their creation scarce observed by man. He identified a rare bird call, which I learned to recognize for myself. He showed me wild flowers, which sent me to the library for fascinating books on the subject. A geologist interpreted the various formations and their history as he read it, and gave me helpful pamphlets. A philosopher-poet quoted Wordsworth and Bryant and Edna St. Vincent Millay. A historian told me of prehistoric people who roamed the canyon, and of early-day happenings. The Mormon pioneers had carved crude trails where now were excellent roads. They had held celebrations here. They had hauled granite from these ledges under almost impossible conditions, to build their temple. Once many mills dotted these streams from which they drew power to make flour, paper, lumber products, and other things to help conquer the wilderness. An agriculturist told me of the wealth that came from the diverted streams to the farms below. These and many more experiences had added to the richness of my acquaintance with the canyons, which gradually came to be a part of me, and I finally was able to take my visiting friends there, and give them much more than just a quick glimpse of the scenic drive.

As I reflected on these things, a flash of inspiration almost con-

736