[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 402 | PDF Page 423]
[Title: Frontispiece (p401) + From Near and Far (p402)]

--- PAGE 401 (PDF page 422) ---
**The Shadowfall**

Shirley M. Howard

Once earth
Called to me,
"Be a tree,
Be a tree."
Acorn—I answered
With a leaf,
A stem,
And a brief
Root shooting down;
Sending
A young trunk
Bending in the wind,
And a
New limb strong
Enough for just a bird
And a song.

Now I
Have heard
A thousand songs,
Stirred
In a thousand winds
And a
Thousand leaves
Wave
Through my
Branches.
My roots
Lie deep
And I keep
Thinking
That when
One is tall
The shadowfall
Is long
Upon
An afternoon.

The Cover: Lake Tahoe, California-Nevada
         Transparency by Lucien Bown
         Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Crater Lake, Oregon
             Photograph by Don Knight

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

--- PAGE 402 (PDF page 423) ---
From Near and Far

Let me congratulate on the beauty of the Magazine. The March number is a dream in color. I loved the article and pictures (on roses) by Mary L. Paul and Dorothy Roberts. Claire Noall's cover is outstanding. The article on painting with glass was very interesting and very colorful. Thanks, also, for the nice spots my poems have been given. I am thinking of having a series of full-page ones framed as keepsakes.
Eva Willes Wangsgaard
Ogden, Utah

I have continued to enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much and always eagerly wait for the next issue to come. I especially was very thrilled to see the lovely cover of the February issue of the scenery of Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii. This is my birthplace, and this is where I first heard the gospel from my cousin during one of my summer vacations years ago.
Ethel T. Kurihara
President
Luzon District Relief Society
Southern Far East Mission

I especially appreciated Alice Bailey's poem "Curled in Seed" in the March issue of the Magazine. It was full of beauty, as was Tom Elliott's color transparency of the Matterhorn.
Leona Fetzer Wintch
Manti, Utah

As I read the article "Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!" in the March issue of the Magazine, by Margaret Russell, I was reminded of the closeness of my mother and sisters and felt grateful for the sisterhood we have. Since I do not live close around my mother and sisters or sisters-in-law, I have more and more appreciated the sisterhood in Relief Society, and no matter where we have lived, Relief Society has brought this sisterhood to me. Our beloved Magazine shares this sisterhood with the dear members in many lands.
Ida Mae F. Dahl
Boise, Idaho

I hope we will have more of the speech articles by Myrtle E. Henderson (March 1964). They are what we all need.
Pearl H. Saunders
Ogden, Utah

I surely enjoyed the speech articles in the March Relief Society Magazine. I hope such articles will be continued.
Mrs. Verna Ross
Salt Lake City, Utah

The article on speech (by Myrtle E. Henderson) in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine is much appreciated, and I hope the subject will be continued in future issues.
Mrs. Opal Saunders
Vale, Oregon

I have just finished reading "Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!" by Margaret Russell in the March issue of the Magazine. As the mother of a family of five "little sisters," whose father is also a Wyoming schoolteacher, it was like reading a forecast of the future. The whole Magazine each month is a gem.
Kathleen Gregory
La Grange, Wyoming

I enjoy the Magazine very much. The lessons are wonderful. Living in the mission field, I think the Magazine means much more to us.
Sylvia J. Harris
Red Wing, Minnesota

I love and enjoy the Magazine! The messages and stories are so inspiring.
Bonnie S. Hansen
Munich, Germany

The Relief Society Magazine has meant many enjoyable hours of reading for my husband and myself. It has been helpful in many ways. The March issue is very beautiful, with its poems and pictures of flowers.
Mrs. Frank Goodwin
Wheeling, West Virginia

402

--- PAGE 403 (PDF page 424) ---
The Relief Society Magazine

VOLUME 51    JUNE 1964    NUMBER 6

Editor Marianne C. Sharp    Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Special Features
404 Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay
406 Paul H. Dunn Appointed to the First Council of Seventy
408 You, Dear Friends Leone O. Jacobs
410 My English Textbook Martha Weyland Paulsen
422 Emily Dickinson—"Occupation—Keeps House" Laurel Ulrich
450 Annual Report for 1963 Hulda Parker

Fiction
412 The Sheep That Strayed on Sunday Helen Nielson
425 Your Heart to Understanding—Chapter 5 Hazel M. Thomson

General Features
402 From Near and Far
418 Editorial: The 134th Annual General Church Conference
420 In Memoriam—Gladys P. Young
421 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon
460 Notes From the Field Hulda Parker
480 Birthday Congratulations

The Home - Inside and Out
Hobbies: Gretchen Stratton Makes Prize-Winning Pillows; Anna Marie Richins—Expert in Handicraft, 430; Happiness in Flower Arranging, by Maude W. Howard, 431; "Parchment" Correspondence Cards, by Peggy Tangren, 436; Relief Society Silver Service, College Park Ward, Washington Stake, 439; Plan for Your Bazaar in the Summertime, 440; An Evening Skirt, by Olive W. Burt, 442; Favors in Watermelon Design, 443; Ribbon-Covered Fruits and Ornaments, by RaNae Gledhill, 444; Clothing for the Very Young, by Helen Lach, 446.

Lesson Department - Preview for 1964-65
467 Theology—The Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey
469 Visiting Teacher Messages—Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants
     Christine H. Robinson
471 Work Meeting—Molding a Happy Life Winifred C. Jardine
472 Literature—The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature
     Bruce R. Clark
474 Social Science—Divine Law and Church Government Ariel S. Ballif

Poetry
401 The Shadowfall Shirley M. Howard
Always the Moment, by Lael W. Hill, 420; Tide Turn, by Marjorie Newton, 424; 
Airborne Heritage, by Viola Ashton Campbell, 449; Night, by Ida Blaine James, 
477; Bird Song, by Evelyn Fieldsled, 478; One Year Old, by Christie Lund Coles, 
479; The Secret, by Eleanor W. Schow, 479; Enchanted, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 
480.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511. Subscriptions 2650, Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year, foreign, $2.00 a year, 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

--- PAGE 404 (PDF page 425) ---
Birthday Congratulations

to Emma Ray Riggs McKay

June 23, 1964

AT this season of the year when summer is rich and beautiful upon the northern lands, and winter rests upon the southern hemisphere, the women of the Church in many lands extend birthday greetings to Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of our beloved Prophet, President David O. McKay. It is with rejoicing and sincere gratitude that the world-wide sisterhood, separated by mountains and oceans, yet united in the spirit of the restored gospel, pay tribute to the lovely woman who represents for them a worthy ideal of Latter-day Saint womanhood, which, with continuing devotion, they may strive to emulate.

Realizing the ever-increasing complexity of life upon the earth today, and knowing full well the many voices that call out to women for their time, their energy, and their attention, the women of the Church are especially grateful that an example of wisdom, strength, serenity, and high purpose has been given them in the life of a truly great woman who has demonstrated the most important and far-reaching accomplishments of womanhood.

Sister McKay has often said that she owes much of her fundamental attitudes, as well as her habits of personal discipline and performance to the training and example which her mother placed before her. These attributes, a heritage from her childhood home, Sister McKay has described as courage, cheerfulness, patience, affection, kindness, understanding, and homemaking ability.

Each of these qualities has been magnified by Sister McKay, and all have been given in generous measure to her family, her friends, and to the women of the Church.

Courage has been consistently manifest in her life, particularly on those many and prolonged occasions when her husband has been traveling in far places, carrying abroad the gospel message. At such times the quiet courage of Sister McKay was so deeply felt by the children in the home that they have said, in later years, that it seemed, through the courage and faith and prayers of their mother, that the influence and love and protection of their father was actually present in the home.

Many of the responsibilities that come to women as mothers and homemakers, and in their relationships with other women, are greatly enhanced by the buoyant quality of cheerfulness that minimizes present difficulties and sheds a glowing light upon the morning that is sure to come. Such has been the pervading light and radiance in the presence of Sister McKay.

Her patience has long been admired and appreciated by her family and by all her associates — a patience that has been upheld by enduring faith and the belief that when one has chosen well a lifetime pattern, then patience and endurance are part of that pathway.

Truly it may be said that the desire and ability to give love and affection are rare gifts, and most worthy of cultivation. Affection and love for those near and dear to Sister McKay and for the women of the Church and all others, have characterized the days and the years of the life of Sister McKay, exemplifying her own belief that "life's finest blessing is the ability to find joy in doing something for someone else." Her innate kindness seems to spring from a desire to help women to attain some of the rich blessings which have graced her own life.

The making and keeping of a home have been to Sister McKay a sacred trust, and the rearing of children a privilege and a blessing. With President McKay she has traveled to many parts of the world, always taking with her "a message of peace and a prayer for the women of the world to make the best possible homes for their children."

For her eighty-seventh birthday, the women of the Church extend to Sister McKay their love and appreciation and their wishes for her health and happiness.

404