[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 66 | PDF Page 67]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 66 (PDF page 67) ---
LITERATURE • America's Literature

The Last Hundred Years

Lesson 47 — Sinclair Lewis, American Self-Satirist (1885-1951)

Elder Briant S. Jacobs

(Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 855-866)

For Third Meeting, April 1964

Objective: To study and evaluate middle-class United States of America during the 1920's as represented in the life and writings of Sinclair Lewis.

"Mirror, mirror on the wall, who is fairest of us all?" The relatively unknown writer, Harry Sinclair Lewis, created his most telling mirror of the 1920's on his typewriter; rather than proclaiming the most beautiful and fair, he caricatured himself and those whom he had known best among the 2,500 people of Sauk Centre, Minnesota, his typical, all-American home town which he was to make immortal. His five major novels which appeared during the 1920's had a magic in them which neither he nor his publishers could foresee or control. His novels sold far into the millions, exceeding even his fondest dreams for the fame and money he knew one day were to be his, all earned, to be sure, by his two index fingers pecking at the keyboard so steadily that his hands and wrists became sore. Then, as now, few critics list his name among America's greatest writers. He himself was painfully aware that his mimicking transcriptions of reality often seemed nearer a journalistic transcript of everyday living than the great literary art or style young Hal had once dreamed of achieving. While many loyal writer friends and literary critics defended his work and praised it highly, he founded no such literary school as did Howells before him or Hemingway after him. How, then, are we to account for the magic of his appeal?

A full accounting would be presumptuous, so devious are the patterns of public taste, but some appeals are obvious. The first and greatest is as immediate as a yellowed high school year book or a family photograph album. A second appeal may have been the emergence of a new identity for the Nation as it struggled to find itself among the complex and multiple cross-currents of our modern age; this he vividly portrayed in his writings. A third appeal may have been the "revolt from the village," the smugness and mediocrity of small town life, which found, in Lewis, a major spokesman. He sometimes cruelly satirized the shortcomings of

66
