[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 809 | PDF Page 844]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 809 (PDF page 844) ---
HOME—THE CHILD TRAINING CENTER

counts of temptations and existing evils which beset the paths of boys and girls. All too many children are being caught in the web of destruction.

In view of existing conditions, social studies and the development of social welfare programs are rapidly increasing, with emphasis being placed on remedial measures and social case work techniques to deal effectively with problems. The remedial measures must be administered, in large measure, by social welfare institutions. Valuable as these may be in the treatment process when a child has fallen by the wayside, is not the better approach the preventive measure through early training in the home by wise and righteous parents?

Church leaders have long taught us that the character of our homes and the teaching we give our little ones play a determining role in the character and behavior of the adolescent child and, later, in the life of the child grown to manhood or womanhood. From time to time we hear an echo of this from those whom the world regards as authorities. In the Desert News of August 19 there appeared a report of a paper presented at the First International Congress of Social Psychiatry in which Dr. Eleanor Glueck of Harvard Law School, an eminent criminologist, said the mother plays a determining role in whether a child is to become a delinquent and later, perhaps, a criminal. Dr. Glueck declared the three vital factors which determine the mother's influence on the child are the amount of supervision given, the amount of discipline she is able to infuse, and the amount of cohesion she is able to bring into existence in the family.

THE Church gives us the broader view, the greater concept of our responsibility to our children. It gives to us first an understanding of what was meant by Solomon when he said, "Train up a child in the way he should go." The "way he should go" is made unmistakably clear. The Church further gives us specific counsel as to how to guide him along the way through our day-by-day home teachings; then it undergirds us with marvelous Priesthood quorum and auxiliary programs.

While, through unfortunate circumstances or perhaps unjudicious action on the part of parents, a child may fail to receive the firm and wise direction required to avoid the pitfalls of life, I believe our Church has a vast majority of competent, successful mothers, and our young people, generally speaking, merit our confidence. At times, even one who strays from sound parental teachings returns in later life repentant because of those teachings. Only recently a son who had been carefully taught by righteous parents, now eightyfour years of age, told me a fascinating story of his repentance. Said he, "During the days of my recalcitrant youth and young manhood, my parental teachings remained with me as a restraining influence and held the line to some extent. I could never entirely rid myself of them, and, finally, they led me back to right living and happiness."

805
