[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 440 | PDF Page 461]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 440 (PDF page 461) ---
Plan for Your Bazaar
in the Summertime

Arrangements from the Work Meeting Display at
the Relief Society Annual General Conference, 1963

One of the loveliest decorations uses an old-fashioned scale trimmed with artificial flowers or fruit and miniature lights. The scale itself is made by taking a 15-inch circle of 3/8 unit plywood as a base, a dowel for the trunk, a smaller dowel for the crosspiece (set in at an angle). The trays are 1/4 in. plywood circles with a styrofoam ball cut in half and glued to the plywood as a basis for the flowers or fruit. The scale is sprayed gold and the dowels are wrapped in gold ribbon. A gold cord is wound loosely around the upright dowels and formed into a loop at the top. The tiny lights are placed across the top dowel first and then into the trays from the base. The scale is very effective decorated with red velvet roses or with red cherries or other small artificial fruits.

Made by Zola McGhie

[PHOTOGRAPH]

This booth was in the form of the outside of a store, looking inside. The backs of children's cardboard were effective as if they were looking in the store window. Dolls are dressed in various costumes of different countries. This shows a display of various kinds of the most popular dolls all beautifully dressed. The manner in which they are displayed promotes sales. The clothes may be purchased without the dolls.

Made by South Davis Stake

[PHOTOGRAPH]

This is a very attractive three-dimensional wall plaque made with a plastic background.
The grape clusters are made of marbles of three different colors.

Made by Leah Vanjomora
From South Cottonwood Stake Display

This telephone book cover is made of medium felt to fit your local city directory with a three-inch turn-in on front and back. The edges are pinked and the cover is lined with clear stiff plastic to make it more serviceable.
The flower pot and stem are stitched by sewing machine about 1/8 inch from the edge. A circle 5 inches in diameter is drawn 2 inches above the flower pot to form a nosegay. Some of the flowers and leaves are attached by sewing machine and some by French knots of wool yarn, worked from the outside to the center. Use your imagination in cutting the leaves and forming the flowers, which are all cut from felt in color combinations of your choice.

Made by Virginia Stake

[PHOTOGRAPH]
