[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 791 | PDF Page 826]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 791 (PDF page 826) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Saying, "O heart I made, a heart
beats here!
Face, my hands fashioned, see
it in myself!"

And not only a being of love,
but also a being, divinely perfected, in the glorified form of
man himself. The whole thing is
utterly beyond comprehension for
Karshish, but also beyond dismissal. He cannot believe, yet he
cannot not believe. And so brilliant is Browning's handling of
the whole poem that the reader
is fully caught up in the wonder
of it all, just as Karshish was.
Christ, the Creator and Redeemer of the world, and mankind's
loving Elder Brother!

Note to Class Leader

The material on Browning given here is taken from pp. 71-90 of
the Relief Society literature text.
In addition to this interpretive
material, the text contains a more
extended discussion of Browning
and a full print (with explanatory
notes) of "A Grammarian's Funeral" and "An Epistle of Karshish," which should be used in
the wards and branches for this
month's lesson.

If these poems by Browning
seem too complex for use in some
Relief Society groups, the literature text in this section on
"Faith in God and Man" also
contains several shorter poems,

with interpretive discussions.
These are intended as supplementary, enrichment selections and
may be used as desired to meet
the special needs of wards and
branches for discussion groups in
the homes. They are excellent
selections for brief, stimulating
analysis. The poems are as follows: "The Lamb" by William
Blake, "I Never Saw a Moor" by
Emily Dickinson, "Little Jesus"
by Frances Thompson, "The
Windhover" and "God's Grandeur" by Gerald Manley Hopkins,
and "Still Falls the Rain" by
Edith Sitwell.

Thoughts and Questions
for Discussion

1. Is it really better, as Browning
says, to set difficult high goals and
strive towards them even though they
may not be fully attained than to set
easy low goals and attain them?
Why?

2. Discuss the effectiveness of
the short lines in "A Grammarian's
Funeral."

3. How successful is Browning in
"An Epistle of Karshish" in taking
you back two thousand years to the
time when Jesus walked in person
on the earth, unknown and unrecognized?

4. Why does Karshish find it more
difficult and more wonderful to think
of God as a Being of love than just
a Being of great power?

5. Why does Karshish's confusion
about the true nature of Christ's
death make Browning's poem even
more realistic than if Karshish had
all the details correct?

791
