[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 709 | PDF Page 740]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_09_16_Poem_Autumn_Jacobson.txt (167 bytes)]

--- PAGE 708 (PDF page 739) ---
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Christine H. Robinson

Message 59 "Every Man Seeking the Interest of His Neighbor . . ." (D&C 82:19)

For First Meeting, December 1964

Objective: To deserve the Lord's blessings, and the love of our neighbors, our actions must show genuine interest in and concern for others.

INTEREST in, concern for, and service to others form the foundation of the good Christian life. Throughout his ministry the Savior emphasized that the greatest joy and happiness come to those who center their lives on love and service to others. Jesus said, "This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you" (John 15:12). Interest in, concern for, and service to others is the only genuine manifestation of true love.

One of the best known and most dramatic examples of love and concern for a neighbor is the Savior's story of the good Samaritan. Unlike others who had passed by the wounded man without helping him, the Samaritan bound up his wound, provided needed medicine and took him to an inn for further care. His compassion prompted the Savior to ask the question, "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him?" (See Luke 10:30-37.)

Without doubt the best way to show our love to our Father in heaven and to deserve his blessings is to love and serve one another. Real joy, accomplishments, and personal success come through selfless service. Someone has said, "Man becomes successful and great exactly in the degree to which he works for the welfare of his fellow men." The emphasis in this thought is on work and deeds. Love without manifestation does not feed the heart any more than a locked bread box feeds the body.

The importance of deeds rather than mere thoughts or prayers on behalf of our neighbors is beautifully illustrated in the following poem:

I knelt to pray as day began
And prayed, "O God bless every man."
Lift from each weary heart some pain
And let the sick be well again.
And then I rose to meet the day
And thoughtlessly went on my way;
I took no steps to ease the load
Of hard-pressed travelers on the road.

708

--- PAGE 709 (PDF page 740) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

I didn't even go to see
The sick friend who lives next door
A call.
But then again when day was done
I prayed, "O God, bless every one."
But as I prayed a voice rang clear
Instructing me to think and hear,
"Consult your own heart ere you
pray:
What good have you performed to-
day?
God's choicest blessings are bestowed
On those who help him bear the load."
(Anonymous)

In our modern complex world
we are growing more and more
interdependent. As our lives be-
come more specialized we depend
to an increasing extent upon the
services performed by others.
Consequently, we must take in-
terest in each other. We need
each other and need the assur-
ance and feeling of security that
come with being needed. We all
hunger for the heartfelt and true
concern of our friends and neigh-
bors.

Manifesting a sincere interest
in the welfare of others means
more than giving worldly goods.
When we have a real concern for

another, we seek to build him up
in his own eyes and to make him
feel he is important and needed.
We encourage him to noble en-
deavor, and constantly assure
him of our confidence in him and
of our friendship. Someone has
said, "there are more people in
this world hungering for kind-
ness, sympathy, comradeship,
and love, than are hungering for
bread." Remember this truth.

Let us resolve today to speak
the kind word, write the note of
appreciation, offer commenda-
tion for some worthy thing well
done, and give recognition and
approval to the efforts of others.
Countless opportunities are pres-
ent every day to show our neigh-
bor that we have interest and
concern for his well-being.

"I shall pass this way but
once; any good thing therefore
that I can do, or any kindness
that I can show, let me do it now.
Let me not defer it or neglect it,
for I shall not pass this way
again" (Anonymous).

Autumn Raiment

Ethel Jacobson

Now with this hard frost,
Every seam and fold
Of our stark mountainside
Flames with gold.

To mark each hidden stream,
Long serpentines of trees
Embroider gilt and crimson
Traceries.

Now autumn comes, a king
Arrayed as kings of old,
In purple velvet shadows
Brocaded in gold.

709

--- PAGE 710 (PDF page 741) ---
WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life

Winnifred C. Jardine

Discussion 3: Personal Attractiveness, a Factor in Happiness

(A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

For Second Meeting, December 1964

Objective: To see the effect of our personal attractiveness
on our own and our family's happiness.

As everyone knows, what we are inside reflects on the outside, and conversely, how we look on the outside affects the way we feel inside.

When we are dressed appropriately—from the moment we get out of bed in the morning until we retire at night—our confidence increases, our spirits brighten, we are more efficient, and we are happier. Our families feel this and respond—feeling a little more sure of themselves and proud of us.

A decisive beginning to the day on the part of mother can influence the attitude of the family. If she is up and dressed, with her hair combed, the day has definitely begun. She feels good because she is "on top" of things, and her family feels good because she looks like she is "on top" of things. In that home happiness can rise with the sun.

(Three things to be worn as little as possible are hair curlers, housecoats or robes, and bedroom slippers!)

Attractiveness begins with cleanliness. Personal habits differ from country to country, depending upon facilities, water supplies, etc., but cleanliness is fundamental and should be achieved by whatever means. A frequent bath not only keeps the body clean and fresh, but brightens the spirit and relieves fatigue.

Clothing, too, should be kept fresh and clean. White collars, white gloves, scarves, and underwear should be laundered regularly so they are spotless. Sponge and press outer clothing as needed, and keep shoes polished and in good repair for good grooming.

Mothers need to have the proper clothing for their roles as homemaker, hostess, and mother. As with all things, there needs to be a careful balance of mother's going without (as she so often does) to provide more for the children. She should take care of her own needs sufficiently well, to keep the family's pride in her

710

--- PAGE 711 (PDF page 742) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

appearance. It is important for each family member to learn to go without occasionally, enabling all to share the family resources.

Homemakers should plan wardrobes for around the house just as they do for their social lives. Comfortable and well-fitting shoes for working about the house can give a woman bounce and energy. Clothes that are simple and loose-fitting not only are easier to wash and iron, but also give the body freedom for stretching or kneeling.

A wardrobe should include appropriate clothing for going out casually in public—shopping, to the library, and on errands.

It is important to our feeling of well-being and happiness (and to that of our families) to be conscious of our appearance. We should always look acceptable before leaving home. This would apply to dressing appropriately for Relief Society meeting and other Relief Society activities and Church functions.

The Church has set standards of dress to which mothers and daughters should adhere. Counsel was given to Relief Society relative to standards of dress by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen in the General Relief Society Conference October 1962.

President Smith advised: "And I think the Latter-day Saints should not follow the fashions and the immodesty of the world. We are the people of the Lord. He expects us to live clean, virtuous lives, to keep our thoughts clean and minds pure and faithful in the observance of all his other commandments. Why should we follow the world, why can we not be modest, why can't we do the things the Lord would have us do?"

Elder Petersen declared, "Mothers in Israel, as long as we turn away from modesty in dress and follow the way of the world in style, just that long will we pay the price in a breakdown of morals among the younger generation."

By being particular both in standards and neatness of dress, we can set an example that might change the habits of the neighborhood, which in turn could strengthen the attitude of the community, which could build the stature of a nation, which could magnify the world.

It is a loving mother or grandmother who makes a special effort to pretty herself up before the family comes. Though there may have been children underfoot all day, there should be a moment to freshen up, to appear neat and clean to greet homecoming family members. This makes for a pleasant remembrance for children to tuck away in their memory chests and attractive picture for a husband to come home to.

Let us keep up our appearance so the family can be proud of us. After all, most of us spend the greater part of our waking hours at home and this is where we ought to look our best. For it is here the most important people in the world—our families—will be seeing us!

711