[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 431 | PDF Page 452]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 431 (PDF page 452) ---
**Happiness in Flower Arranging**

*Maude W. Howard*

[ILLUSTRATION - decorative floral design with flowers in a pot]

**D**ESIGNING beautiful flower arrangements is an art that is fascinating and rewarding.

Our homes can be made attractive with flowers. They do add warmth and friendliness to our homes. Our homes can speak our personality when we make use of our own little touches. Flowers can enhance all of our cherished objects.

As in any art, proper equipment is necessary, and the right tools make a difference. The essentials are few and inexpensive, but most important for successful flower arranging. A few of the basic needs or aids to flower arranging are: a knife, flower shears, a frog or a needle holder, oasis, wire, chicken wire, and basic containers.

A good knife is a prime requisite. All flower stems should be cut. After a flower stem has been out of water any length of time and exposed to the air, it should be recut allowing water and oxygen to travel up the stem to the blossom. Flower shears are not recommended for cutting flower stems, because they tend to pinch the stems and cut off circulation to the water channels leading to the bloom. However, scissors are needed for many other steps and requirements in this work.

Frogs or needle holders in various sizes are necessary for arranging in low, shallow containers, always remembering the frogs should be attached to the container with florists' clay before any moisture is added to the bowl. These frogs tend to hold stems upright and in place.

Oasis, a new commercial product similar to a sponge, can be soaked in water over night, and when covered with foil, serves as a container in itself. However, I prefer to use oasis as a filler in another container so water may be added to the oasis daily.

Floral wire is most useful to reinforce the flower stems and it also helps to hold the flower stem straight. If one wishes to attain a line arrangement with a flower, wire adds to the possible bending of the stem without breaking.

Chicken wire is most successful when crushed to fit any shape of container. It is especially good in tall cylinder vases and urns because flowers are held in place. The stems can be inserted through mesh openings which hold stems in place and support them.

Anything which holds water is a usable container for flowers, whether it be a compote, urn, shallow bowl, rectangular tray, jar, goblet, cylinder, or pillow type vase.

Most generally we follow the line of the vase with our flower arrangement, curving with a curved or flare vase. More often, with an upright cylinder type vase, we make an upright straight arrangement which bespeaks modern or oriental art. We use few flowers, but we place them carefully in a heaven, man, and earth fashion. This is three elevations filled in between with greens.

If you are arranging flowers sent from a florist, remember to recut stems on the diagonal so when the stem is resting on the bottom of the vessel, circulation is not cut off and water can travel up the stem to the blossom. A stubby stem touches the bottom of the container so no action can take place. Remember at all times that flowers breathe in water through the stems, and a dry stem will not take in water even though the stem is submerged in water. This is most important to the lasting qualities of all types of flowers.

431
