[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 275 | PDF Page 288]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 275 (PDF page 288) ---
Cancer's Two Deadly Gaps

American Cancer Society

IN cancer, in 1964, there are two deep, tragic gaps: the research gap and the education gap. Cancer research has accomplished fifty per cent of its task. Today, it is possible cure to one half of all cancers. The remaining fifty per cent waits on new discoveries — bridging the research gap. The other gap — the education gap — could be bridged immediately. Lack of education cancels some of the benefits of research — by keeping about one out of every six cancer patients from the prompt diagnosis and the proper treatment that could save his life. In one year — this year — in this country, the education gap will cost about 90,000 lives — people who could be saved from cancer if they were properly educated and motivated to help themselves.

Education could save: people who have not learned the seven danger signals that may mean cancer — or who fail to act on these signals; people who do not know that cancer can be cured if found early, and hence avoid periodic health examinations; people who do not know what modern surgery, radiation, and drugs can do against cancer, hence avoid proper treatment or delay it too long for safety.

The seven danger signals are: unusual bleeding or discharge; a lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere; a sore that does not heal; change in bowel or bladder habits; hoarseness or cough; indigestion or difficulty in swallowing; change in wart or mole.

To cure more, give more to the American Cancer Society!


Earth Renewed

Grace Barker Wilson

I had forgotten how the earth is fair,
The miracles of birds and butterflies,
Till I saw wonder shining in her eyes,
And shafts of sunlight making gold her hair.

We gathered nuts and left them for the squirrels,
We watched the wild canaries flash and dart
From tree to tree. Again I felt a part
Of mystery encompassing small girls.

A bright leaf fallen from a maple tree,
A fluffy cloud ship floating overhead,
Were newly beautiful when sunset's red
Reflected all her wonderment to me.

275
