[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 832 | PDF Page 871]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 832 (PDF page 871) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

1. Roll out ½ recipe of Basic Sweet Dough which is ready for shaping on lightly floured board or cloth into rectangle about 12 x 16 inches. Gently transfer to greased cookie sheet so that the length of dough goes across width of cookie sheet.

2. Brush center of rectangle with melted butter; sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Spread center of rectangle with filling.

3. Bring upper corners of dough down to meet the center of the lower edge. You will have "extra" dough at the base of tree. Roll vertical edges of center back and clip rolled edges. Gently stretch tree so that it fills cookie sheet.

4. Trim dough from lower edge saving half for trunk. Roll dough to form trunk. Clip the outside edges of tree with long diagonal cuts. Twist to form branches.

5. Cover with a damp cloth and let rise in a warm place until double in size and bake at 375°F. about 20-30 minutes. When baked, frost with Snowtop Frosting. Garnish with cherries, citron, and nuts.

FRENCH CHRISTMAS LACE

Make Basic Sweet Dough. Let rise twice and during second rising prepare the filling.

FILLING: Boil together for one minute:

2 c. apples, finely chopped        ½ tsp. salt
1 c. raisins, ground               ½ tsp. cinnamon, ground
1 c. dark brown sugar,
    firmly packed

1. Cool. Then roll out ¼ of Basic Sweet Dough into 14 x 8 inches. Gently transfer to greased cookie sheet.

2. Spread filling down center in strip about 4" wide. At each side of filling make cuts 2" apart, making cuts 2" long into dough. This makes 7 strips on each side.

3. Cross alternate strips across center filled section. On last strips, tuck under and seal. Cover with damp cloth and let rise until double in bulk. Bake 30-35 minutes at 375°F. Frost with Snowtop Frosting. Garnish with Marachino cherries, nuts, and green and red citron.

CROWN ROLLS

½ recipe of Basic Sweet Dough      1 tsp. cinnamon, ground
¼ c. melted shortening             ½ c. nuts, finely chopped
¾ c. brown sugar,                      pecan halves
    firmly packed                       seedless raisins

1. Use ½ recipe of Basic Sweet Dough. When dough is double in bulk, punch down.

2. Shape dough into walnut size balls. Dip balls in melted shortening and roll in mixture of brown sugar, cinnamon, and chopped nuts.

832
