[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 22 | PDF Page 23]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 22 (PDF page 23) ---
JANUARY 1964

mas, or that the woman they hire will be able to stay."

And he had gone out and Carol had begun the preparations. There were beds to change around, and clothing to rearrange to make room in the closets, and more shopping to do with the check Doris had left. Then one evening they went and got the children, and everything had seemed fine. Susan and Janet had been having the time of their lives, with Carol's two girls their age, but Michael. . . .

Carol went to sleep then, with Michael's dark, searching eyes swimming before her.

THE next few days were so full of laughter and wrapping and baking and sewing, that Carol didn't have time to think. Hal had been right about all the children being a handful, but for the most part they were well behaved and she really was enjoying them.

They popped mounds of fluffy white corn and strung some of it on long red string. They made platters of rich, nutty fudge and crisp amber peanut brittle. They glued yards of red and green paper strips together for chains, and several evenings they bundled up to go around and see the brilliantly lighted homes with animated figures and bells and trees . . . and everyone laughed and sang Christmas carols, and talked at once . . . everyone but Michael.

Carol had been watching him, and hoping that he would come to her, but he didn't, and she knew his hurt had grown too big.

One evening she had Hal take some of the children shopping and

she put the little ones to bed. And when the shoppers came home they went in separate rooms and shut the doors to wrap their treasures. They stuck more Santa seals on the packages than necessary, and used miles of silver ribbon. But Mike went into the living room and sat alone.

Carol went in. He was so still, she hesitated to intrude, but she knew she had to.

"Mike . . . I guess things are pretty hectic around here, aren't they?"

"Sorta. . . ."

"Is there something you would like to tell me?"

"No. . . ."

Carol looked at him and felt his word hang heavy in the air. "Tell me about your Christmases. What do you do that you like the very best?"

He didn't answer. He just cleared his throat, and she knew he was close to tears.

"Tomorrow's the day we go after our tree." Carol knew he wasn't really listening, but she went on anyway. "We used to go cut one ourselves, but they won't let us do that any more, so we start out early and visit nearly every place in town where they sell trees, and we stand them up one by one and look at them carefully. It takes us a long time to pick one sometimes, because Uncle Hal likes them tall and lean, and I like them short and fat, and Peggy and Dicky. . . ."

SHE stopped. She knew Michael was crying . . . there were no tears, but she knew he was crying inside, where it's worse. She knew he would rather be alone, but she

22
