[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 577 | PDF Page 604]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 577 (PDF page 604) ---
MISTER LEWIS AND THE RAVENS

two tin buckets, recently fashioned by himself. They resembled coal scuttles in size and shape; however covers were welded on with little beads of solder in a bumpy decoration along the joinings. The spouts were uncovered. It was through each tapered opening that the milk was received in practiced jets from the source of supply, and from which it flowed when the vessel was tipped forward. In true scuttle fashion, a horizontal handle, much resembling a dresser drawer pull, aided in the transfer of milk from one bucket to another. Mister Lewis had designed these unorthodox milk cans sometime previously, when he found that the covers to his regular cans kept getting lost or dented. Now he had a chance to prove his inventiveness.

THE first day of his proposed beneficence saw him ushering his cow along the valley roads toward the settlement. As before stated, his milk buckets were slung over his shoulder, one in front, the other dangling down his back. Townspeople whom he passed said Mister Lewis looked as if he were a dairy on the hoof. This time they were right. His reasoning was that it was easier to take the milk to the homesteader in this manner than to fill the buckets with milk on his property and then trudge with it slopping out the spout all across lots. Besides, a certain saving in feed was guaranteed. Ditch banks were overgrown with luxuriant lucern tufts which afforded excellent forage. Such bounty from private fields was considered public property. A leisurely return, after the milking, afforded abundant energy for another milking.

As Mister Lewis approached his goal that first day, he bethought himself to gain the attention of those within the house without actually going to the door and knocking upon it. From his past he recalled a halloo, a sort of wail, a screech in three syllables, a blood-curdling cry. He drew a deep breath and tried it. As he had not voiced this alarm since he was in the American Civil War, the result startled even himself.

Instantly, the homesteader opened her door with the frightened question of what added catastrophe was upon her now! When Mister Lewis saw her he ceased his signal of arrival and halted the cow. He put one of his buckets on the ground near the fence and placed the other near the animal. As his head ducked to the flank of the cow and his hands grasped the udder, he half shouted to the amazed woman still standing in the open doorway, "Just heard you have sickness. I'll come by night and morning with some milk. Leave the bucket on your side of the fence." That was all he said.

The woman said, "Mister Lewis, you are a good man."

She turned toward her door and went in. She closed it softly behind her. The fever-ridden children saw that their mother was crying. Perhaps that awful yelling outside was too much for her, they thought. However, they knew that their mother had never been afraid of anything in the whole wide world. Weakness in-

577
