[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 294 | PDF Page 307]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_04_26_Poem_Empty_James.txt (346 bytes)]

--- PAGE 293 (PDF page 306) ---
THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT

BARBECUED LIVER AND ONIONS

1 lb. liver
¾ c. chopped onion
2 tbsp. fat
¼ tsp. pepper
½ tsp. salt
1 c. tomato juice
3 tbsp. flour

Brown liver and onions in the fat. Add the seasonings and flour to the tomato juice, and stir. Pour over the liver and onions. Simmer 30 to 40 minutes.
Yield: 4-5 servings

MARINATED BROILED LIVER STRIPS

1 lb. beef liver
½ lb. bacon (optional)
¼ c. vinegar
⅔ c. salad oil
1½ tsp. salt
1 tsp. pepper

Slice liver into ½ inch slices. Cut into 1-inch strips. Mix vinegar, oil, salt, and pepper together. Marinate the liver strips in the French dressing mixture for one hour. Wrap each strip in bacon secured at ends with toothpicks. Broil 10 minutes.
Yield: 4 servings
Note: The liver may be broiled without the bacon by rubbing fat on the surface before broiling.

BRAISED LIVER WITH VEGETABLES

1½ lbs. sliced liver
flour
2 tbsp. fat
3 c. carrots
3 c. celery
¾ c. onion
1 tsp. salt
½ tsp. pepper
1 c. water

Dredge liver well with flour. Brown in hot fat. Clean and dice vegetables. Arrange in layers over the slices of liver. Season and add water. Cover and simmer slowly until both the vegetables and the liver are done. Beef liver will take about 45 minutes; pork, lamb, or veal liver about 30 minutes.
Yield: 8 servings

TONGUE RECIPES
(two variations)

To cook tongue:
1 tongue

water
1 large onion
1 tbsp. whole cloves, sliced
2 bay leaves

Wash tongue and cover with water. If it is a fresh tongue add 2 tsp. salt. Add onion, cloves, and bay leaves. Cover and simmer until tender, allowing 1 hour to the pound. Remove skin and trim.

BRAISED TONGUE WITH VEGETABLE GRAVY

Recipe No. 1
1 tongue, cooked, skinned, and trimmed
½ c. diced onions
1 c. diced carrots
¾ c. diced celery
3 tbsp. flour
small amount of water
1½ c. liquid in which the tongue was cooked
1 tsp. salt
¼ tsp. pepper

Cut the cooked, skinned, and trimmed tongue into cubes and place in pan with diced onions, carrots, and celery. Make a smooth paste of flour and small amount of water. Gradually add liquid and seasonings to the paste. Pour over tongue and vegetables. Simmer for 1 hour.
Yield: four lbs. of tongue will serve 12.

TONGUE WITH CHERRY SAUCE

Recipe No. 2
1 tongue, cooked, skinned, and trimmed
¼ c. fat
½ tsp. salt
1 bay leaf
¾ c. brown sugar
1½ c. cherries, canned or cooked
1 c. liquid in which the tongue was cooked
½ sliced lemon

Slice the tongue and place in a pan with the remaining ingredients. Simmer for 20 minutes.
Yield: a four-pound tongue serves 12.

SWEET-SOUR BEEF HEART WITH NOODLES

1 beef heart
1 8-ounce package noodles
½ c. fat
2 c. water
2 tsp. salt
½ tsp. pepper

Sweet-Sour Sauce:
2 tbsp. fat

293

--- PAGE 294 (PDF page 307) ---
APRIL 1964

2 tbsp. flour
2 c. liquid in which heart was cooked
4 tbsp. vinegar
2 tbsp. brown sugar
1 bay leaf
1/8 tsp. thyme
2 whole cloves
1/2 tsp. salt
1/8 tsp. pepper

Wash and trim the heart. If it has been cut, sew into original shape. Cook the noodles in boiling salted water. Drain and combine with one-half of the fat. Fill heart with cooked noodles and save the rest to be heated and served with the heart. Brown the heart on all sides in the remaining fat. Add

the water and season with salt and pepper. Add more water during cooking, if necessary. Cover tightly and cook until tender. The average heart (31/4 lbs.) will require about four hours for cooking. Remove the heart from the liquid and make the Sweet-Sour Sauce.

Melt the fat, add flour, and stir until smooth. Gradually add the liquid, stirring constantly. Cook until thick. Add the vinegar, sugar, and seasonings. Return the stuffed heart to the sauce and simmer for 15 minutes. Serve the heart on a platter with remaining noodles. Remove the bay leaf and cloves from the sauce and serve in a gravy boat.
Yield: a 31/4 lb. heart serves 12.

Empty Nest

Ida Elaine James

All of you now are gone, and I
Wake each day with a lonely cry:
"Good morning, dears! I am loving you,"
My heart calls out the long day through.

I ask: "How did you spend your day?"
Each evening, and at dusk, I say:
"What are you doing now?" I see
You smiling over the miles to me.

The whole day through I cry aloud:
"How strong I am! How brave! How proud!"
But when night comes, the heart lies bare,
Shivering in the lonely air.

I can only draw around my breast
The cloak of memories, dear and blest;
"Guard them, Lord!" I pray . . . "I'm glad
For all the beautiful years we had."

294

--- PAGE 295 (PDF page 308) ---
The Other Day

Christie Lund Coles

THE other day I went to the seemingly humble home of a widow I had known only casually for a short time. We visited for a little while in the living room and kitchen, where homemade bread was baking in the old-fashioned coal range. Later, we had the heel of a loaf, still warm, melting the butter to liquid gold, and honey, dripping amber magic.

Before I left, she took me into her bedroom which, she said, was her prize. And prize, indeed, it was. There in stately age and beauty stood a massive old, old walnut bed. She said it had been brought across the plains by her grandparents. It was as smooth as brown silk. On top of it was an unusual crazy quilt spread, and on top of that were two pillow covers, made of silk and embroidered with the names of the two who had long ago slept in the bed.

Near the bed stood the matching washstand, complete with the white china washbowl and water pitcher. Across the room was the dresser with its marble top and oil lamps. On the wall hung a picture made from human hair, and on a small table near the original platform rocker was a bowl of rose leaves, preserved with salt, and still fragrant after nearly a hundred years.

Something I had never seen before was a long-haired rug which lay beside the bed. It was white and silky. I asked about it, and she told me that was to warm the feet of the "master of the house," when he stepped on the floor. It was made of goat's hair.

The woman told me she had been offered good sums, by antique collectors, for everything in the room, but she had refused to sell. (Though, I am sure there had been many times when she had needed the money.)

I left the home feeling that every home has its treasures, many of them, indeed, beyond price.

An Evening Thought

Catherine B. Bowles

Lord, be kind and merciful to me
That I may serve just thee.
That every act and deed I do
Will bring me nearer, Lord, to you.
When darkness comes with setting sun
And night is nigh and work is done,
Let me feel that thou art near
To bring me peace and soothe my fear.

295

--- PAGE 296 (PDF page 309) ---
How
about
a
"GET IT DONE DAY"?
Vera Stocker

OF COURSE I try to plan my homemaking tasks to accomplish them with the greatest possible efficiency and dispatch. If I didn't, I would be swamped by the countless demands on the time and strength of a "do-it-yourself" homemaker and mother of four school-age children. But even with a good workable schedule, I have found that many small tasks that need to be done and that I want to do, are put off, forgotten, or just plain neglected — things of seemingly little importance, but still have their place in a smooth-running household and a well-ordered family life. That is how Get It Done Day came to be an institution in our home.

Yes, just that — a regular day set aside in which emphasis is put on doing many small, odd jobs, those "must-do-one-of-these-days" kind. Ours is the first weekday of each month, or as soon after as may be convenient.

On that day I do the minimum of regular housework, hurrying through the breakfast dishes, beds, and dusting in double-quick time, and preparing easy-to-get meals. Then to the game, for I am not averse to a little playful competition between me and time. It adds interest to see just how many needed tasks I can accomplish before the day is done. There is a pleasant variety, too. This is the time for small jobs, but many — remember?

Likely I will have the oil can out. I have a habit of forgetting to oil certain small appliances. The kitchen screwdriver may be in use, too, and my spot cleaners for upholstery and wallpaper. A pleasant breeze may invite me to air all our blankets and pillows. It is a good time to wipe off all the light globes in the house — a job that should be routine and isn't with me. I will thin out our pile of magazines, tying up those back numbers, then box up some discarded clothing of the children, arranging at once for delivery of both to places where they will be welcomed.

I look at the bright new page on the calendar, and note that it is time for the check on Jamie's teeth, and remind myself to remind my husband to make the appointment for his annual physical examination. Oh, yes, some birthdays are in the offing. I will make certain decisions about these today instead of waiting until the eleventh hour, and I will take a look at my gift wrappings and greeting card supply. (A pencil and pad are handy, of course.) I will have other reminders, too — for instance, a check of the bathroom medicine show some nearly empty bottles and tubes, and other low supplies. If my household accounts are not up-to-date, now is the time, and I will also sort and file properly the recipes I have clipped.

I hate to darn socks, but with my

296