[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 258 | PDF Page 271]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 258 (PDF page 271) ---
APRIL 1964

hour, gusts up to eighty-five, leaving hundreds of motorists stranded. Conditions are worsened by the twenty below zero temperatures. Heavy snowfall has disrupted communications and literally cut off many areas. However, the storm is expected to abate sometime during the night. At United Nations today. . . ."

There was much head shaking among the adults as they solemnly broke crackers and finished their simple meal. No one spoke. Miriam looked at the small cafe as if she had never seen it before. Last summer she had viewed with derision its gray walls, brown counter top, and two mustard-colored booths. Now she almost felt affection for it. The kerosene lamp hanging from the ceiling spread out a warm, golden light that covered the obvious defects, muted the stark colors, and made it cheery and homelike.

The adults did not hurry to get down from the stools. The children finished first and discovered a playful tabby kitten to tease. Their happy play was a pretty complement to the solemn tones of the grownups.

After a time, the cafe owner came out of his living quarters behind the cafe with a high pile of blankets and quilts. His wife followed with three pillows. "I wish we had beds for you all, but we've only one back there, and Mary needs it." His young wife was obviously pregnant. "Use these things to make yourselves as comfortable as you can. Pillows for the women and children."

With quick resourcefulness the mother made a bed on the table-

top in the far booth for the two little girls. She removed their shoes, tucked them in snugly. Then she kicked off her shoes, and wrapped herself in a blanket on the bench beside them. Miriam did the same. The driver and the young man settled down in the next booth; the young man kept the briefcase within reach, like a constant bedfellow. After the owner of the cafe had turned down the big hanging lamp, he and his wife retired to their quarters, leaving the door ajar.

THE roar of the storm filled the night. To Miriam it seemed that the house itself was bending with the storm. The very nails seemed to stretch and yield. She heard their creaking protest. The others were asleep. She listened to the even breathing of the children, the quiet shifting of the mother, the young man sneezing in his blanket, the driver snoring in a low key. From her hard bed she looked at the isinglass window of the heater and the warm embers winked back at her.

The storm was abating. Now, the noise was a mournful moaning and a sad sobbing. It was like a woman with woe weighing in a wilderness. Miriam felt a strange kinship with her. The tears she had kept frozen inside her began to course down her cheeks as the icy core inside melted away. Her thoughts no longer chased about in a wild frenzy, but bathed themselves in her tears. After a time she dried her face. The fire through the tiny window still kept a friendly vigil. Outside, the storm continued to retreat. The time of

258
