[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 538 | PDF Page 562]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 538 (PDF page 562) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Smith was not a fraud. He subsequently went to a martyr's grave in defense of his knowledge of God and his purposes in the eternities; (2) earth's inhabitants are the begotten sons and daughters of God; (3) not only are we of this earth his children, but also other worlds are inhabited by his spirit offspring; (4) the real basis for the brotherhood of man, which, if accepted, could bring peace and understanding among men, must be founded upon this knowledge; (5) a true understanding of why we should be obedient to gospel principles is discovered in our relationship to God and the purpose of this life.

THE PAST

Section 76 reveals the past as well as the future. (Verses 12-13.) Next in vision these brethren beheld the time when Lucifer rebelled against the Father and the Son and thus became the fallen one. (Verses 25-27.) He is known as the one who sought to take the kingdom from the Father and the Son. (D&C 76:28, 29, 36-38.) His purpose is to overcome those who follow righteousness. Lucifer's efforts are expressed in terms of warfare, even assaults from all quarters—he "encompasseth them round about." (verse 29) The notion that Satan exists only in the minds of men is denied by this revelation. The testimony of the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon is that Lucifer is a real spirit-being whose presence is felt for evil and whose mission is to despoil, lead into degradation, overcome the saints, and, eventually, claim as his own all who will succumb to his enticements. (2 Nephi chapter 28.)

SATAN'S VICTORY—SONS OF PERDITION

Section 76 (verses 30-39) gives the answer to two questions regarding the class known as the sons of perdition. Who are the sons of perdition? What is their fate? Concerning the first question, the revelation says that they have known God's power and then, knowingly, deny that power (verse 31).

When one is endowed with the Spirit to know the existence of God, having great understanding of the principles of exaltation, and then denies this knowledge, he sins against the Holy Ghost that opened the heavens to him. This constitutes blasphemy against the Holy Ghost and puts the Savior to open shame. Such a person brings upon himself everlasting condemnation. (Verses 31-35.) Jesus said that all sins might be forgiven, including speaking against him, but to sin against the Holy Ghost was unforgivable. (Matt. 12:31 - 32.) Why is this so? Even though the Son is manifest in a vision or dream, it does not impress the soul as does the testimony of the Holy Ghost. It is Spirit speaking to spirit that gives greater conviction than a vision; therefore, the condemnation is greater. (SMITH, Joseph Fielding: Improvement Era, July 1955, pp. 494-495.) The Prophet Joseph Smith says of this class:

All sins shall be forgiven, except the sin against the Holy Ghost; for Jesus will save all except the sons of perdition. What must a man do to commit the unpardonable sin? He must receive the Holy Ghost, have the

539
