[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 539 | PDF Page 563]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 539 (PDF page 563) ---
JULY 1964

heavens opened unto him, and know God, and then sin against Him. After a man has sinned against the Holy Ghost, there is no repentance for him. He has got to say that the sun does not shine while he sees it; he has got to deny Jesus Christ when the heavens have been opened unto him, and he has got to deny the plan of salvation with his eyes open to the truth of it; and from that time he begins to be an enemy. This is the case with many apostates of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 358).

It should be noted that when this sin is committed it is done in full knowledge and not in ignorance.

FATE OF SONS OF PERDITION

As already noted, the sons of perdition will never receive forgiveness in this world nor in the world to come. (D&C 76:34.) It should be remembered that the sons of perdition discussed in this lesson are those sons of God who have come to mortality and also the unembodied spirits who followed Lucifer in the premortal world. Both of these classes—the mortal sons of perdition and the spirit sons of perdition—suffer the second death, which is complete, or total banishment from God's presence forever. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 24.) Adam became spiritually dead when he sinned, as do we, but the spiritual or second death suffered by the sons of perdition, comes by blasphemy against the Holy Ghost. This penalty brings death as to things pertaining unto righteousness. (D&C 29:41.) Repentance is not possible for these persons because they have lost the power of turning from their sins since the atonement of Christ is no longer effective for their salvation.

ALL RESURRECTED

Due to a misunderstanding of Section 76, verses 38 and 39, some have believed that the sons of perdition will not receive their bodies in the resurrection. This belief does not agree, however, with what the Lord has revealed about the resurrection. (Verses 16-17.) The interpretation of verses 38 and 39 of Section 76 is expressed by President George Q. Cannon:

A careful reading of these verses, however, and especially of the preceding paragraphs, will show that the Lord does not, in this language, exclude even the sons of perdition from the resurrection. It is plain that the intention is to refer to them explicitly as the only ones on whom the second death shall have any power "for all the rest shall be brought forth by the resurrection of the dead, through the triumph and the glory of the lamb." This excluded class are the only ones on whom the second death shall have any power, and "the only ones who shall not be redeemed in the due time of the Lord after the sufferings of his wrath" (Juvenile Instructor 35:123, Feb. 15, 1900).

NO GLORY KINGDOM

Latter-day Saints are prone to consider that there will be only three kingdoms after everyone is resurrected, because three degrees of glory are mentioned specifically in the scriptures. (1 Cor. 15:40-42.) The Lord has revealed that the place of the sons of perdition is also known as a kingdom, but it is of no glory. (D&C 88:24.)

The exact conditions of that kingdom are unknown. That it is a place of endless duration is clear. No man living can understand the fate of this class because the Lord has said that only those who are partakers of that

540
