[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 520 | PDF Page 544]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 520 (PDF page 544) ---
I'M WRITING FIVE BOOKS

babies. Writing them at once in their scrapbooks taxes the parents' memories less, and the little stories can be told the same way twice and not forgotten.

Charles, now eight, still giggles over the story he wrote when he was two and a half, about his grasshopper:

My Daddy bring me a grasshopper.
My grasshopper jumps on the rug.
No, no, Ste'en. Don't eat my grasshopper.
My put my grasshopper in bottle. . . .
My grasshopper eats grass.
My give my grasshopper more grass.
Where my grasshopper?
No, no, Ste'en. Don't eat my grasshopper.
No, no, Ste'en.
My grasshopper — all gone.

When our fifth baby was born, we wrote each of the children's reactions to him and included them in each scrapbook. It read something like this: "Today we brought Douglas home from the hospital. Two-year-old Lucy ran to the car to meet us and thought it was wonderful that we brought a little doll for her. Then he cried, and it took us some time before she would come close to him again. Four-year-old Danny was also pleased with the baby and wants to hold him all the time. Six-year-old Steven doesn't admit that he likes the new baby, but he has brought eleven of his friends in to see him with the announcement, 'Look what mama layed!' Eight-year-old Charles figures it's an everyday occurrence, and after one look at the baby he shrugged, 'Just what I expected,' and went off to play."

We try to include one or two of the children's best drawings for each year. The rest of the pictures and drawings are very carefully glued into an old magazine which gives each one his own inexpensive, yet permanent scrapbook of drawings.

I was getting ready for a party. I made a special apple pudding dessert which Charles especially likes. "Mother," he said, "when are you going to start that recipe book?" What recipe book? "When I get married I want my wife to know exactly what I like!" And so, we have added special recipes to Charles' book.

The children have used their scrapbooks so much that they have torn some of the pages in the books. Celluloid tape becomes brittle with time, but I have learned one good way to repair these books, and all other books. Use plastic glue and paste it on the tear. Put wax paper on both sides and close the book. Let it dry over night. Then just peel off the wax papers and the tear is fixed, stronger than before. The books are used so often that the regular mounting corners do not hold. We do not glue the items in permanently and use the mounting corners only for color and decoration.

We include the child's ancestral history, with pictures as far back as we can collect. Because each child was named for someone in our family, we tell them stories about their namesakes, and write it in their books. We want our children to be proud of their names and their heritage. We feel we have accomplished this partly through the individual books for each of our children.

521
