[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 253 | PDF Page 266]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 253 (PDF page 266) ---
The Worth of the Relief Society Magazine

T. Bowring Woodbury
Former President, British Mission

YOUR wonderful increase in Magazine subscriptions over last year is a great record, and attests to the devotion and dedication of the leadership group which I am privileged to address today. However, as I look at this outstanding body of women, I am reminded of the story of the Washington, D.C., tourist who was being driven in the cab around the city. As they came to one Federal building, over the archway were the words, "The past prologues the future." As the tourist pondered those words, he finally asked the cab driver what they meant. The "cabbie" replied, "That simply means, 'You ain't heard nuthin' yet.'"

And, I believe, as outstanding as the increase for this year is, "we ain't heard nuthin' yet," as far as you sisters are concerned.

I am always impressed as I read the 12th Chapter of Revelation, and John recalls to us the great war in heaven when Satan and his angels were cast out, that this did not end the war; the battleground merely changed places. For, John tells us, "Therefore rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time."

We see Satan's influence everywhere on the earth. We see it particularly in the magazines of the world, where we not only know pornography as commonplace, but, worse almost than that, the innocuous articles in women's magazines that tell of the "thrill" of young mothers going back to school to get their degrees, and mothers leaving families to take positions that are challenging, etc., etc. Every influence is exerted to take mother out of the home, away from children that need and yearn for her love, her presence, and her constant teachings. Alone, almost, stands The Relief Society Magazine, combating the influences of the evil one and fighting the fight down here where the battle still rages for men's souls.

253
