[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 172 | PDF Page 177]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 172 (PDF page 177) ---
MARCH 1964

teaching and training them so that they voluntarily comply with the revealed truths of the gospel. Little by little they must, while still responsive to your guidance, come to realize and appreciate that "men are that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). That, as the Prophet Joseph said, "Happiness is the object and design of our existence; and will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it." Your children must, as a result of your guidance, through their own experience come to believe and know that, as the Prophet further said, "this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness, and keeping all the commandments of God" (DHC. V, pp. 134-135).

Teach them that, as Alma told his son Corianton, ". . . wickedness never was happiness" (Alma 41:10), and what Samuel the Lamanite said to the wayward Nephites, as he foretold their ultimate end if they refused to repent:

. . . ye have procrastinated the day of your salvation until it is everlastingly too late, and your destruction is made sure; yea, for ye have sought all of the days of your lives for that which ye could not obtain; and ye have sought for happiness in doing iniquity, which thing is contrary to the nature of that righteousness which is in our great and Eternal Head (Helaman 13:38).

SOMEHOW we must get our children as they grow up to understand these great truths. We can help them to understand it by approving proper conduct and

by letting them know that improper conduct brings sorrow. They can know when they are three years old if they are taught properly.

Both our homes and our society will be put in order when and only when, by precept and example, parents teach and inspire in their children a willing resolution to live the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. For when one gets a witness of their divinity and glimpses the joy of their promise, he will pray fervently, work diligently, and sincerely obey the commandments of God, which, of course, include the laws of the land.

Now, as I conclude, I would like you to feel the spirit of The Book of Mormon on this matter of training your children. Speaking to his people who had been moved to repentance, chastened and strengthened in their faith by his great farewell address, King Benjamin thus counseled and instructed them concerning the training of their children:

And again I say unto you as I have said before, that as ye have come to the knowledge of the glory of God . . . and have received a remission of your sins, which causeth such exceeding great joy in your souls, even so I would that ye should . . . always retain in remembrance, the greatness of God . . . and humble yourselves even in the depths of humility, calling on the name of the Lord daily, and standing steadfastly in the faith. . . . And behold, I say unto you that if ye do this ye shall always rejoice, and be filled with the love of God, and always retain a remission of your sins . . .

168
