[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 895 | PDF Page 934]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 895 (PDF page 934) ---
EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE

even more difficult. Some parents are handicapped in their efforts to train their children by their own desires and their emphasis upon material possessions — a practice which they sometimes pursue to obtain social status. Deceptions are practiced for business advancement, and there may be a callous adherence to many forms of intolerance. All of these practices can become the seeds of misconduct and lawlessness in children, for children are prone to pattern their attitudes and their activities upon examples they have encountered in their own homes.

RESPONSIBILITY IN THE HOME

As President McKay has said, and I should like to emphasize the fact, our greatest responsibility is to our family and the home, and for all of us to live exemplary lives wherever we may be. The Church has given us certain standards and teachings which we accept, and which if lived, will contribute more than anything else to high ideals and good citizenship.

I have said many times, and am thoroughly convinced, that if the adults of the community would live as they should religiously, and hold to moral standards which they profess, we would have no juvenile delinquency problems. On the other hand, you have heard it said, and it is true, that by example you can teach a child to hate almost anything, even going to Church. Many of those who speak of and worry so much about delinquency continue to encourage it by their daily actions.

How fortunate is the child who lives in a home where the gospel is lived and taught; where there is complete love and harmony; where it is expressed in word and deed by the father to the mother, the mother to the father, and they to the children, and the children to one another; where they are taught to say: "Please," "Thank you," "I love you," "Your hair looks beautiful," "I surely like your dress," "Your talk was very good," "I certainly was proud of you today," and to live in a home where mother extols the virtues of the father.

PRAYER IN THE HOME

What a great influence it has on the child's life when every night and morning the family kneels down in family prayer, and the child realizes that the father or the mother, when leading in prayer, is actually talking to God; that he or she has faith in the Lord; presents his problems, expresses his gratitude, and asks for the blessings of the Lord to attend them in all that they do, knowing that if you "Counsel with the Lord in all thy doings . . . he will direct thee for good" (Alma 37:37).

How important it is that we express our heartfelt gratitude every day for the blessings we receive, and not call on the Lord only when we are in difficulty and feel seriously the need of his help, guidance, and direction. When I think of the influence of family prayer in my life, I cannot fully express my feeling of gratitude to my parents.

Albert Einstein, speaking of the influence of example, once said:

891
