[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 715 | PDF Page 746]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 715 (PDF page 746) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

And wicked exultation when good men
On every side fall off, we know not how,
To selfishness, disguised in gentle names
Of peace and quiet and domestic love
Yet mingled not unwillingly with sneers
On visionary minds; if in this time
Of dereliction and dismay, I yet
Despair not of our nature, but retain
A more than Roman confidence, a faith
That fails not, in all sorrow my support,
The blessing of my life — the gift is yours,
Ye winds and sounding cataracts! 'tis yours,
Ye mountains! think, O Nature! Thou hast fed
My lofty speculations; and in thee,
For this uneasy heart of ours, I find
A never-failing principle of joy
And purest passion.

"The Prelude" goes on to talk of the innate nobility that is man's heritage, and of how, when he conquers the base animal instincts within himself, man can move toward the potentiality of godliness that is his, for "there's not a man that lives who hath not known his godlike hours."

In the remaining books of "The Prelude," fourteen long books in all, Wordsworth talks of many further things that shape one's life for good or bad, especially how faith in immortality can lift one to nobility in mortality.

I had inward hopes
And swellings of the spirit, was rapt and soothed,
Conversed with promises, had glimmering views
How life pervades the undecaying mind;
How the immortal soul with God-like power
Informs, creates, and thaws the deepest sleep
That time can lay upon her; how on earth,
Man, if he do but live within the light
Of high endeavors, daily spreads abroad
His being armed with strength that cannot fail.

And the conclusion of this lengthy meditation on life and the universe is

Faith in life endless, the sustaining thought
Of human Being, Eternity, and God.

CHARACTER OF THE HAPPY WARRIOR

Not so philosophically or artistically rich* as "The Prelude" and the "Intimations of Immortality" ode but even more directly centered around an ethical message is "Character of the Happy Warrior," which is Wordsworth's fullest description of what he felt man at his best should be. In a narrow sense it characterizes what a military officer ought to be but in a larger sense is a portrait of an ideal leader of men. Such an ideal

*Lack of artistic richness seriously lessens the poetic attractiveness of "Character of the Happy Warrior." Most readers prefer poetry that communicates through metaphors and other figurative, imagistic phrases. But the language here tends to be direct and literal. The form is blank verse, but it is more prosaic and "flat" than that of Wordsworth's great blank-verse poems such as "Michael" and "The Prelude," or of such a poem as "Intimations of Immortality." Indeed, a good case could be made for calling "Character of the Happy Warrior" a prose essay in iambic pentameter rhythm rather than a genuine poem. The work is included here not for its artistry of language but for its loftiness of message.

715
