[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 28 | PDF Page 29]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 28 (PDF page 29) ---
Notes to the Field

Bound Volumes of 1963 Magazines

Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1963 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret New Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.75, leather $4.20, including the index. A limited number of 1963 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1963 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries.

The New March of Dimes
Fight Birth Defects—Fight Arthritis
The National Foundation

YOUR March of Dimes and dollars are now working harder than ever. There are more than seventy March of Dimes Centers in fifty-one cities across the United States. Typical of such centers are the Birth Defects Special Treatment Center at the L.D.S. Primary Children's Hospital in Salt Lake City, Utah, and the Juvenile Arthritis Special Treatment Center at the University of Utah. In these centers each working day finds dedicated, skilled men and women continuing the fight against Birth Defects that strike a newborn child in America every other minute of the day, and against the Nation's Number One Crippler — Arthritis, which now afflicts eleven million Americans.

In our fight against Birth Defects, your March of Dimes contributions are also supporting a broad range of studies to determine why Birth Defects and Arthritis occur, how they may be prevented, and the best means for correcting disease and disability.

Despite polio's heroic rush to oblivion, thanks to the Salk and Sabin vaccines which you literally bought and paid for through the March of Dimes, there are still many partially or completely paralyzed victims who need help and further rehabilitation.

Give to the 1964 March of Dimes and your treatment centers will be able to continue in their search for hope and help for the child born less than perfect. Give generously to your 1964 March of Dimes.

28
