[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 141 | PDF Page 146]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 141 (PDF page 146) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

is, and will be, in the nature of the cleansing process to prepare the earth and its inhabitants, those who will be fortunate enough to remain, for the coming of our Savior when he shall commence his reign for a thousand years upon the earth. The reading of this chapter with the knowledge that the time of its fulfillment is at hand, should cause all men some thoughtful sober thinking (Church History and Modern Revelation, Vol I, page 303).

John's Mission

In Section 77, verse 14, we are told that the little book which was eaten by John, found in Revelation 10:8-11, is interpreted to be a mission for him to gather the tribes of Israel. This was the beginning of the new dispensation of the gospel after the period of apostasy. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, pp. 476-477.) John the Revelator is presently engaged in this mission. In the conference of the Church of June 1831, it is related that:

... The Spirit of the Lord fell upon Joseph in an unusual manner, and he prophesied that John the Revelator was then among the Ten Tribes of Israel who had been led away by Shalmaneser, king of Assyria, to prepare them for their return from their long dispersion, to again possess the land of their fathers (DHC 1:176, footnote).

Two Witnesses

The final verse in Section 77 refers to Revelation, chapter 11, where the two prophets raised up to the Jewish nation in the last days will have power to prevent the destruction of the Jewish people by nations which have come up to battle against Jerusalem. In the process, however, these prophets will have been overcome themselves and then by the power of God restored to life. This episode yet to be enacted in the land of Jerusalem will be mentioned again in a subsequent lesson.

Questions for Discussion

1. Give an example of the fact that the Book of Revelation tells of the period before John's time, as well as the future.

2. Why did John address his revelation to the seven branches of the Church in Asia?

3. What are the limitations of Section 77 in understanding the Book of revelation?

4. What is meant by the "Saturday night of time," and what references to this meaning are found in the lesson?

Frozen Splendor

Gladys Hesser Burnham

Snowflakes hang in frozen splendor
Solid, dew-wet, jewels of fog.
Every bush and tree is coated
Weed and wire, tub and log;
All transformed in lacy raiment
Frosty touch of icy grace,
Hushed and breathless, opaque curtain
Hides the sun, her warm embrace.

141
