[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 2 | PDF Page 3]
[Title: Frontispiece (p1) + From Near and Far (p2)]

--- PAGE 1 (PDF page 2) ---
Happy New Year!

HAPPY NEW YEAR to each and all! A glad, prosperous year ahead is our wish for you. Success in your undertakings, happiness in your homes, peace in your lives, and joy in your souls is our prayer for you. Faith in great abundance, a deep, abiding testimony, a motivating desire for greater spirituality, a stirring longing for gospel knowledge is our hope for you.

"Lift up your hearts and be glad, for I am in your midst, and am your advocate with the Father; and it is his good will to give you the kingdom." This great promise given by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith is a promise to the worthy who are willing to work in his kingdom. The Lord speaks of the gospel as the "voice of gladness" and as "glad tidings of great joy." His instruction "that ye are chosen out of the world to declare my gospel with the sound of rejoicing" gives us the realization that only in righteous living is there true happiness and cause for rejoicing.

How full of joy our lives are meant to be! Yet joy and happiness are of our own making. The secret of happiness lies within us. Some do not understand that to possess happiness one must pay the price in loving kindness, in devoted service, and in uplifting goodness. All of us have experienced failures and have made mistakes. Let us bury them in the unretraceable past, keeping only the wisdom derived from such experiences to guide our future. The New Year will be prosperous and happy if we make it so.

The first day of the calendar year is one of the oldest of festivals. Its celebration is well-nigh universal. Dear sisters all over the world, as you celebrate the New Year, as is your custom, remember that our beloved Relief Society binds us together in a great, loving sisterhood. Its organization under the inspiration of our Father in heaven was for this purpose and to make us "one" in his service.

The New Year is rich in the promise of glorious opportunities. Let us make the most of them!

Affectionately,

Belle S. Spafford
Marianne C. Sharp
Louise W. Madsen

--- PAGE 2 (PDF page 3) ---
From Near and Far

I have been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine ever since it was printed, and my mother always took the Woman's Exponent, so it is needless to say how much I appreciate the publication. It is part of my life. I have had responsibility in Relief Society almost all my adult life. I appreciate the wonderful articles and sermons in the Magazine. The poetry and stories are excellent. I have a little slogan that I think applies to Relief Society: There's a wealth of satisfaction in a labor well done, and a sense of great achievement when many work as one.

—Mrs. Janette Crapo Miller
St. Anthony, Idaho

Truly The Relief Society Magazine is a missionary in very deed. It has opened the door for me into conversations which have led into wonderful gospel discussions with those of other faiths on many occasions.

—Ethel Lewis
Ogden, Utah

I must thank you for the wonderful article in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine, by Mary M. Ellsworth, "A Message to Young Mothers," a most inspiring and practical article which my friends and I have enjoyed.

—Mrs. Claren Jorgensen
Corte Madera, California

Thank you for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. They are so pretty, with their colors, that they put sunshine into my days. After we finish our lessons on the Doctrine and Covenants, I hope we can study another of our standard works.

—Patricia A. Leader
Troy, Montana

I am especially impressed with "A Message to Young Mothers" by Mary M. Ellsworth in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I am going to try hard to follow the counsel given in this article. Thanks to Sister Ellsworth for the profound wisdom she displays in this article. Her lovely family is fortunate to have a mother with ideas of this kind. Also, I want to say thanks to Maxine Grimm for the article on "Ironing Out the Wrinkles," and I have been trying to use my ironing time to iron out my weaknesses.

—Joan Garrard
Oakland, California

Many thanks for The Relief Society Magazine and Gary M. Ellsworth for the inspiring "Message to Young Mothers" in the October issue. Most of us try to grasp and absorb fragments of wisdom to help us over our trying times, but these fragments are sometimes hard to find and to call to mind when we really need them. So here we have been given a whole storehouse of practical help which I, for one, am going to keep in front of me to memorize and draw upon when the need arises.

—Nina Panes
Scarborough
Ontario, Canada

I wish it were possible for the sisters who write all the wonderful things in our Magazine to visit the Relief Societies and let us meet them. Our Magazine could not possibly be the help and inspiration it is to so many mothers, old and young, if it were not for our wonderful sisters who are planning for our benefit. To me the Magazine is a messenger, bringing a message of courage, help, and good will.

—Lola B. Walker
Monterey, California

2

--- PAGE 3 (PDF page 4) ---
The Relief Society Magazine

VOLUME 51    JANUARY 1964    NUMBER 1

Editor   Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor   Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager   Belle S. Spafford

Special Features
1   Happy New Year!   General Presidency
4   Purpose of the Relief Society   Joseph Fielding Smith
6   John Fitzgerald Kennedy
8   Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest
9   The First to Go — First Prize Poem   Alice Morrey Bailey
10  Verdure — Second Prize Poem   Hazel Loomis
11  Quo Vadis? — Third Prize Poem   Margery S. Stewart
13  Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest
14  Moment of Trust — First Prize Story   Mary Eh Knowles
25  The New March of Dimes   The National Foundation
35  What Is a Work Meeting Leader?   Sylvia Lundgren

Fiction
20  Carol's Christmas   Adelle Ashby
29  The Lost Star   Hazel K. Todd
43  Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 7   Rosa Lee Lloyd

General Features
2   From Near and Far
25  Woman's Sphere   Ramona W. Cannon
26  Editorial: The Day of the Lamanite   Marianne C. Sharp
28  Notes to the Field: Bound Volumes of the 1963 Magazines
50  Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities   Hulda Parker
80  Birthday Congratulations

The Home - Inside and Out
37  Playtime Recipes   Janet W. Breeze
38  Ear Huggers Are Nice   Shirley Thulin
40  Stretching the Food Budget — Part IV — Dried Beans
                Marion Bennion and Sadie O. Morris
42  Della Gleed's Hobby Is Making Gifts

Lessons for April
57  Theology — Missionary Service   Roy W. Doxey
62  Visiting Teacher Message — "Wherefore, Be Not Weary in Well-Doing"
                Christine H. Robinson
64  Work Meeting — Planning the Family Wardrobe   Virginia F. Cutler
66  Literature — Sinclair Lewis, American Self-Satirist   Briant S. Jacobs
72  Social Science — The Opportunity and Responsibility of a Calling
                in Church Government   Ariel S. Ballif

Poetry
Give Me These, by Elsie F. Parton, 5; Exile, by Gilean Douglas, 49; First Heartaches, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 79; Canoes, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 79; Precious Moment, by Verda P. Bollschweiler, 79.

The Cover: Winter in Grand Canyon, Arizona, by Claire W. Noall, lithographed in full color by Desert News Press; Frontispiece: Snow and Shadows, by Harold M. Lambert; Art Layout by Dick Scopes; Illustrations by Mary Scopes.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642, Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be returned for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

--- PAGE 4 (PDF page 5) ---
Purpose of the
Relief Society

President Joseph Fielding Smith of The Council of the Twelve
[Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference,
October 2, 1963]

As I stand here looking into your faces, this brings to me wonderment, and I wonder if the Prophet Joseph Smith saw in vision the sight that I am beholding here this morning.

On the 17th day of March, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith met with a number of the sisters of the Church in Nauvoo and organized them into a society which was given the name of "The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." Besides the appointment of officers, the Prophet Joseph Smith gave the sisters general instructions, quoting from The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants. The detailed instruction of this opening session was not recorded, but it had to do primarily with the responsibility devolving upon the sisters of the Church in the care of the poor, the sick, and the afflicted. That this organization was by revelation, there can be no doubt. This truth has been abundantly demonstrated throughout the years and today its value and necessity are abundantly attested.

No bishop in the Church could carefully and efficiently care for the many wants of his ward without the help that comes from this wonderful organization.

In his journal, March 24, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote that he again met with the Relief Society. The record states that there was a very "numerous attendance." On this occasion the Prophet pointed out in some detail the purposes of the organization, saying that knowledge of the pure principles of humane, philanthropic benevolence could flow continuously from the bosoms of the sisters in behalf of strangers, the distressed, the widows and orphans, and make their hearts rejoice. He said:

Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel usage that they received from the barbarians of Missouri, has hitherto prevented their extending the hand of charity in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of persecution, when the bread has been taken from their helpless offspring by their cruel oppressors, they have always been ready to open their doors to the weary traveler, to divide their scanty pittance with the hungry, and from their robbed and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with the more needy and destitute; and now that they are living upon a more genial soil, and among a less barbarous people, and possess facilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed, we feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated (DHC IV, 567-68).

4