[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 902 | PDF Page 945]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 902 (PDF page 945) ---
The Turn
of the Wheel
Mabel Harmer                                CHAPTER 3

[ILLUSTRATION]

Elsa Breinholt meets Clay Knowlton, from Salt Lake City, stationed with the United States Army in Heidelberg. She is eager to come to America and quickly takes advantage of his offer to have her sponsored by his family. Her widowed mother had hoped that she would stay in Germany and continue her growing friendship with Karl Ernst.

IT was a lovely day in mid-autumn when Elsa left for Bremerhaven to board the ship for America. Heidelberg had never looked more beautiful. The hills were never more green—the river never more inviting. "And yet it goes eagerly on toward the ocean," she told herself. "The same as I."

Her mother and Maria went with her to the station, and, at the last moment, Karl came tearing up. "I had a hard time getting away from my work," he said breathlessly. "I had to threaten the boss' life to get away at all."

"Perhaps you won't have to do that again," laughed Maria. "You may not have a job at all when you get back."

"Then you will have to care for me," he replied.

Mrs. Breinholt was not laughing—nor even smiling. Elsa knew well enough that if there had been any way right now to put a stop to the trip, her mother would have done so quickly.

She had half hoped that Clay would also be at the station, but she knew that it was not as easy to get off from military duty as from a job.

The announcer called her train, and she kissed her mother and Maria goodbye. She turned to Karl last. "Auf Wiedersehen," he said, holding her hand tightly. "Auf Wiedersehen," she smiled. "Auf Wiedersehen."

At this last moment tears blinded her eyes, and she ran toward her car. Once aboard and moving through the countryside, her tears quickly dried and she enjoyed the passing scene. Her spirits soared again. She was on her way at last! At long last she was going to see the world.

At the harbour she went aboard at once and was shown to a small stateroom in the tourist class. The enormous size of the ship was

902
