[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 546 | PDF Page 570]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 546 (PDF page 570) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

ual aspirations. Our eternal salvation depends upon our ability to make precise choices. While it may demand real effort, spirituality can be developed, and the lessons which are provided each month in Relief Society are eloquent testimony that spiritual discernment can be developed.

DEVELOPING LITERARY SENSITIVITY

A similar sensitivity needs to be developed in considering literature, and it, too, can be both taught and learned. The trouble here is that we do not think it important to discriminate precisely in literature. We are reluctant to accept a sales clerk's glib description of a dress without trying it on and checking its construction. We also recognize the profound necessity for each person to work out his own spiritual salvation, but we may be content to read non-religious books uncritically or sit by while a teacher talks about literature. Perhaps we think that because we are reading or listening only for enjoyment that we can be passive and undiscriminating.

Such an attitude is frightening because it is just while we are in such a passive state that we are most susceptible to influence. We are also apt to be overawed by those who tell us what various literary works mean, and we are tempted to let others make our literary judgments for us. This is both unnecessary and unfair, unfair to the authors and works we study and, most of all, unfair to ourselves. We lose the growth which critical development brings. No vague appreciation of literature provides this. We must learn

to discern, to become critics, in order to help ourselves and our families to choose the best guides for life, and few influences are as potent as the material we read.

FOUR MAJOR CRITICAL METHODS

The first section of the text for this year gives a detailed account of the four major critical positions which you will need to be aware of if you want to develop critical sensitivity. The discussion there is mildly technical in order to provide the background for the basic understanding of critical theory. You can become a competent critic—and know the thrill of being able to make your own judgments—if you focus on the method which each position stresses.

A. Emphasizing the Message.
The first approach emphasizes the message of the work. It is referred to as the Platonic method, after the Greek philosopher. What does the poem or story say to you? Since what the poem says to you will be determined, in large part, by what you bring to the poem, you find yourself judging it on the basis of your experience and beliefs. If the poem is about nature, and you bring a deep love of nature to the reading or hearing of the poem, it will mean more to you than to one who doesn't share your enthusiasm for the out-of-doors. It may well mean something to you as a Latter-day Saint that it will not mean to friends of other religious faiths. The standards which you use in evaluating this poem are set by your experience and convictions before you begin reading. Let us

547
