[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 789 | PDF Page 824]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 789 (PDF page 824) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Here's the top-peak; the
    multitude below
Live, for they can, there;
This man decided not to Live
    but Know—
Bury this man there?
Here—here's his place, where
    meteors shoot, clouds form,
Lightnings are loosened,
Stars come and go!

The problem for the modern reader of this poem is in deciding not to side with the grammarian's critics who felt that he was wasting his time in a grubby search for knowledge, that he would have been wiser to live life to the fullest as Browning advocated in other poems. But Browning's point is that whatever one chooses to do should be done with energy and enthusiasm and devotion. Pillowy, "lukewarm," easy, directionless, undisciplined mediocrity was as distasteful to Browning as St. John in the Book of Revelation recorded it as being to Jesus Christ. (Revelation 3:15-16 reads: "I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot. I would thou wert cold or hot. So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spue thee out of my mouth.")

An Epistle of Karshish. Browning's long and complex poem called "An Epistle, Containing the Strange Medical Experience of Karshish the Arab Physician" is perhaps the most successful effort in the world's poetry to recreate the tremendous impact of Christ's mission upon an ancient non-believer who is so overwhelmed by it all that in bafflement he almost believes. The poem is not history and should not be read as history. It is an art creation, attempting to capture the spirit rather than merely the factual details of how Christ's life and message must have affected those who only half knew and understood it.

Karshish and Abib are imaginary characters. The Epistle purports to be written in 66 A.D. from Bethany in Judea by the traveling scholar-physician Karshish to his master, Abib.

The first two sections, through line 61, are merely introductory as Karshish tells Abib of his travels to a number of places, different people and things he has seen, and various medicines he has used in the treatment of epilepsy and other sicknesses. The reader will almost certainly find these lines tedious and not very meaningful, as Browning intended.

Then Karshish, almost as an afterthought, says, "Yet stay." Something is on his mind that he wants to talk about. Before the reader moves on further in the poem he should study the account in John 11:1-44 of Christ's raising of Lazarus from the dead, for it is about Lazarus that Karshish wishes to talk. He has met Lazarus and been puzzled by him. "The man had something in the look of him," says Karshish in line 69, something that Karshish cannot forget. Lazarus, having felt the power of Christ, is a man incapable of doubt.

And first—the man's own firm
    conviction rests
That he was dead (in fact they
    buried him)
—That he was dead and then re-
    stored to life
By a Nazarene physician of his
    tribe:
—'Sayeth, the same bade "Rise,"
    and he did rise. (lines 97-101)

789
