[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 20 | PDF Page 21]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 12%]

--- PAGE 20 (PDF page 21) ---
[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing showing children and adults in what appears to be a Christmas scene, with a large portrait of a young boy's head on the right side]

Carol's Christmas

Adelle Ashby

CAROL sat up and pulled the quilt around her. She didn't turn the light on. The glare of it would add a sharpness to the night, a sharpness and an awareness with which she didn't want to cope. The hour was late, but it wasn't dark outside. The first snow of the season floated earthward, and the moon was bright. She watched the whiteness grow in depth on the boughs of the gnarled apple tree just outside the window and wanted to be out. She knew the coolness of the winter night would help her separate her thoughts, but she didn't get up. She just sat there, quietly, not wanting to wake Hal. She sat there, remembering his warning and remembering Michael's eyes.

Michael's eyes bothered her most. It was too late for Hal's warning, but maybe it wasn't too late to do something about Michael. If she only knew what the look in his eyes was trying to tell her. Sometimes Carol thought he was enjoying the pre-Christmas festivities, but whenever she looked in his eyes, she knew he wasn't. And she wanted him to so very much. Sometimes he would look up and almost say something, but the words didn't come.

Carol knew that part of the trouble was his loneliness for his parents, but there was something else . . . something dark and deep.

It was wrong to force a new kind of Christmas on him, Carol thought, and she could hear Doris say, "Honestly, Carol, you make so much of Christmas! There's no need to, you know. . . . No one does nowadays."

Carol pulled the quilt up around her more snugly, and, in so doing, was reminded that even in the everyday things, she hadn't advanced much . . . not by most standards, especially those set up by Doris. The bright patches of the quilt shone out in the path of moonlight that played across her bed. She loved the ties, the memories of long ago that the patches brought to her . . .

20
