[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 460 | PDF Page 481]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_06_15_GenFt_Womans_Cannon.txt (429 bytes)]

--- PAGE 459 (PDF page 480) ---
Notes

All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.

RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES

European Mission, Relief Society Leaders and Singing Mothers at
Servicemen's Conference, Berchtesgaden, Germany
November 1963

Upper picture, left to right: Mary Russon, Swiss Mission; Lyle Petersen, Norwegian; Frieda Loscher, Austrian; Jean Fletcher, Swedish; Ingred Sorensen, Danish; Ruth Benson, Central German; Emily Myers, North German; Frances Tate, Berlin; Genevieve Gardner, South German; Carolyn Brugger, Servicemen's Relief Society Coordinator, European Mission.

Not in the picture: Minnie P. Burton, European Mission; Agnes Jacobs, Bavarian; Marilyn Anderson, Finnish; Edith McIntire, West German Mission.

Lower picture: Singing Mothers who presented music for the conference.

Sister Brugger reports: "For three spiritually filled days, we met and partook of the spirit of our wonderful leaders. There were two special meetings for Relief Society, one a special workshop for presidents and secretaries, with specific helps given on the annual report. A skit was presented to point out better ways to prepare the narrative section of the report. A question and answer period was informative to all.

"On the final morning of this conference, our lovely spiritual Relief Society session was held. Edith McIntire, of the West German Mission, gave a farewell tribute to Minnie P. Burton, thanking her, on behalf of all of us, for the willing service she has given. The Germans refer to Sister Burton by saying, 'Sie ist eine Dame' (She is a lady). This is a German's highest tribute to a woman. A cut crystal candy dish was presented to Sister Burton to remind her of the love and respect we feel for her. Sister Burton, in her remarks, asked that we open the door for the Savior. Sister Maxine Hanks, of the British Mission, expressed the desire that we all have the proper attitudes. Sister Freda Joan Lee, wife of our beloved apostle Harold B. Lee, expressed a hope that we would pray with our children. Each sister who spoke left her testimony and love with us.

"Singing Mothers from all parts of Europe blended their voices and gave moving renditions in the Relief Society sessions, and in a general session of the conference. When we left the beautiful Bavarian Alps, we had a renewed desire for service and stronger testimonies, and we were indeed spiritually fed and physically uplifted."

460

--- PAGE 460 (PDF page 481) ---
FROM THE FIELD

General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker

[PHOTOGRAPH: Group photo of approximately 10 women in 1940s-style dresses and clothing, standing in a line indoors]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Large group photo showing many people, both men and women, gathered together indoors, appears to be a social gathering or meeting]

--- PAGE 461 (PDF page 482) ---
JUNE 1964

Tacoma Stake (Washington), Tacoma First Ward Bazaar
November 1963

Left to right: Rosella Seal, First Counselor; Marion Harris, President; Vera Casto, Second Counselor; Bessie Groom, work meeting leader.

Jennie Wheeler, President, Tacoma Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of the Tacoma First Ward proved the worth of hard work in preparing for their bazaar. They made a total of $550. About $140 was earned from serving a turkey dinner the evening of the bazaar, and the remainder came from items made by the sisters during the year. The pillowcases draped over the front of the table were made by Anna Conquest, a sister who is eighty-one years old. She averages a pair of pillowcases a month, but the month before the bazaar she made three pairs. All are solid embroidery. Best sellers at the bazaar were eighteen sets of tea towels, plus some singles; a dozen sets of pillowcases, two dozen cloth balls, detergent bottle covers, eleven doll quilts, four large quilts (with orders for more); two dozen cloth hangers, aprons, and children's clothing. We certainly felt that this fund-raising activity was an outstanding example of diligence and cooperation."

Reseda Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Different Occasions

Merlene Colarusso, President, Reseda Stake Relief Society, reports: "In recent months, the Reseda Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers chorus has presented a spring concert, commemorated the Society's anniversary, given an autumn concert, and was featured in the stake Inter-Faith social. Maryann M. Mendenhall is chorister, and Carol C. Cook, organist."

Whittier Stake (California) "Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair"
September 20, 1963

Left to right: Jean Ann Bowman and Jacqueline Kaline, two of ninety-three models who participated in the fashion show.

Rea W. Jorgensen is president of Whittier Stake Relief Society, with Bette McDonough and Alta Ellis as her counselors.

Sister Jorgensen reports: "Come to the Fair — Our Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair.' With these words, the Whittier Stake Relief Society set the stage for a full evening of festivity and fashion. An ingenious carousel and a giant pink horse delighted both models and spectators as the curtains parted. Musical numbers were interspersed with a colorful narration which kept the fair moving at a lively pace. Models, from toddlers to grandmothers, came on stage in small groups to view the wonder and excitement created with paint and paper.

"This fashion fair was the culmination of a summer sewing school held in each ward of the stake. Ensembles for all occasions were proudly worn by those who had taken advantage of this wonderful opportunity afforded them by the Relief Society. Various fashions shown included morning, afternoon, and evening wear, children's apparel, mother and daughter outfits, maternity wear, and accessory magic. As each of the ninety-three models walked down the ramp toward the many gaily decorated booths, a capacity audience of nearly 450 applauded their appreciation for the efforts of these sisters."

462

--- PAGE 462 (PDF page 483) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH - Top image shows four women in dark dresses standing around a table with decorative items and what appears to be a display or demonstration setup]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Middle image shows a large group of women in white blouses seated in rows in what appears to be a meeting hall or auditorium]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Bottom image shows two women standing in front of seated audience members, appears to be some kind of presentation or demonstration with decorative wall hangings visible in background]