[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 939 | PDF Page 982]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 9%]

--- PAGE 939 (PDF page 982) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

of the Lord was different. So in these times conditions have changed very much from those times (Conference Report, October 1921, page 17).

TAKE NO THOUGHT BEFOREHAND

The Lord also counseled the missionaries of this dispensation to treasure up in their minds the words of life that when the appropriate hour came, the words of life could be called forth. Although they were instructed to take no thought beforehand what they should say, they were to study diligently the revelations necessary to teach the gospel. (D&C 84:85.) The missionary was to "reprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come" (Verse 87).

REWARDS AND PUNISHMENT

All who assist the Lord's servants will in no wise lose their reward. On the other hand, those who reject his missionaries or who fail to provide for them when required, will find that they have brought themselves under condemnation. (D&C 84:88-91.) It has been decreed, also, that those places that reject the word of the Lord will be condemned, but diligent search should be made in the cities and villages for those who will hearken to the message. (Verses 92-95.)

When, in the judgment of the Lord, the world has had its opportunity to accept him through his servants, and as predicted, the world at large will have rejected the message, plagues shall go forth in judgment upon the nations (D&C 84:96-97; 63:32-37; 45:26-44.) The earth will be cleansed from wickedness, and in

that day all shall know the Lord as the King of Kings. With knowledge of him as their lawgiver, they that remain will lift up their voices in singing the new song given in verses 99 through 102 in Section 84.

These verses speak of millennial conditions. Zion is now being built upon the earth in preparation for the Lord's second advent. In time, the city of Zion (New Jerusalem) will be erected to the glory of God. When the Savior comes to establish his kingdom upon the earth, great shall be the joy of the redeemed, who have looked for that glorious day from the beginning. Satan, the archenemy of man, no longer will have influence for he will be bound. The promised restitution of all things (Acts 3:19-21) will have been accomplished in the gathering together into one of all promises and activities planned for the benefit of man. The Zion of Enoch and the Zion of the latter days will meet joyously. (Moses 7:62-64.) In that day the Lord shall stand on the earth in the midst of his people who have been redeemed by his power. The redeemed shall then send forth their songs of praise to the Most High.

CONCLUSION

In order that the persons to whom Section 84 was addressed might understand, there is repeated the instruction that the families of the missionaries should be cared for, and the Lesser Priesthood members in that day were to prepare the way for the preaching of the gospel. (Verses 103-108.)

939
