[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 930 | PDF Page 973]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_12_21_Poem_A_Gabbott.txt (364 bytes)]

--- PAGE 929 (PDF page 972) ---
A CANDY HOUSE FOR CHRISTMAS

The house can be made in various sizes, with "luscious" landscaping, and with an amazing number of decorative motifs and figurines readily available. Many such "color and crystal" houses are made of a combination of edible and inedible "ingredients," and if the making of the house and arranging its setting can be a family project, each child will participate with great originality.

The Setting: For the groundwork, use a large tray, a piece of glass, a box top, or a piece of heavy cardboard, depending upon the size of the house and the extensiveness and type of landscaping.

The Ground Cover may be white confetti, cotton or wool batting, styrofoam, or such edible materials as popcorn or icing made by one of the recipes included with these directions. The creative Christmas homemaker will think of many variations. The "snow" can be heaped into hills, formed into stream channels, or heaped up around a little lake or pond or skating rink. The water can be represented by a clear surface of the foundation glass or tray, or a piece of aluminum foil can be cut to an appropriate shape. Even a piece of blue tissue paper can be used as surface for a pool or to outline the course of a stream.

Decorating the landscape: Fences, grottos, paths, trellises, trees, figurines (of Santa Claus, carolers, reindeer, Wise Men, shepherds) may be arranged to make the scene glow with Christmas atmosphere.

For steps and paths, for edging the lake or the stream, use small or large marshmallows or a combination of both in various colors, or try a design of jelly mints (square or rectangular or round) or use the "rock candies," which so closely resemble real stones. For fences, try licorice sticks, stick candy, or make a "wheel" fence of small doughnuts or cookies pressed halfway into the "snow." Cranberries or Maraschino cherries can be fitted into a matrix made of icing.

The figurines may be dolls, carolers, Wise Men, shepherds, Santa Claus, sleighs, skaters, or reindeer, and they may be made of candy, cookie dough, or they may be ceramics. Colorful Christmas motifs can be cut from last year's Christmas cards and pressed into the "snow" foundation, or the people from cut-out books can be assembled.

Trees may be made of cookie dough and decorated with glistening sparkle candies, or they may be cut from craft paper, or clipped from the trimmed branches of the big Christmas tree.

Making the house: Use a cardboard box or carton (turned upside down) in the size desired for the walls of the house and cut doors and windows. The sloping roof and the gabled ends, as well as the chimney, can be cut from cardboard and fastened securely together with adhesive tape. For filling the window spaces, use light blue paper or aluminum foil, or if the house is small, pieces of flat candy can become windows. A little door can be made by covering a piece of cardboard with foil or cutting the dimensions from colored heavy-grade craft paper, or a door can be shaped from cookie dough.

Cover the house thickly with icing made from one of the following recipes, or use a recipe of your own. Be sure that the icing contains syrup or egg white, so that the decorations will stick to the surface. If either of these icings is used for snow, the icing can be a little less solid. The icing used to cover the house must be quite solid. The texture can be easily adjusted by adding confectioners' sugar for making the icing thicker, or adding white syrup or beaten egg whites for making it thinner.

Then assemble your variety of colorful candies or candied fruits or fresh cranberries, or Maraschino cherries, nuts or raisins, and decorate your Christmas house with anticipation and originality.

929

--- PAGE 930 (PDF page 973) ---
NO COOK FONDANT

1/3 cup soft butter or margarine
1/3 cup light corn syrup
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 1/2 cups (1 pound) sifted confectioners' sugar

Blend shortening, light corn syrup, salt and vanilla in large mixing bowl. Add sifted confectioners' sugar all at once. Mix all together — first, with a spoon; then with hands, knead dry ingredients. Turn onto board and continue kneading until mixture is well blended and smooth. Makes about 1 1/3 pounds. Store in a cool place until ready for use.

MARSHMALLOW ICING

3/4 cup granulated sugar
2 envelopes unflavored gelatin
2/3 cup cold water
1 cup light corn syrup
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Blend sugar and gelatin in saucepan, stir in water. Place over low heat, stirring until sugar and gelatin are dissolved. Pour light corn syrup in a large bowl (3 to 4-quart) of electric mixer or mix by hand. Add vanilla, gelatin, and sugar mixture to light corn syrup, and beat about 15 minutes or until mixture becomes thick and of a marshmallow consistency.

A Word

Mabel Jones Gabbott

A word fell among us
    ricocheting, left then right;
Across the room our eyes met,
    and the word made a pool of light,
Pushing the edge of wonder wide
    and wider, illuming racks of rue
And doubt with finite understanding
    in infinite ways. And only we knew.

930

--- PAGE 931 (PDF page 974) ---
CHRISTMAS SEALS
a needed gift

Dr. James E. Perkins
Managing Director, National Tuberculosis Association

A lot of statistics are walking around town these days. What I refer to is the large number of people who, if they had been born a few decades earlier, would have become ill — and in many cases would have died of a grim disease called tuberculosis.

But thanks to Providence, medical advance, and the dedicated efforts of many people, these "statistics" are in the alive-and-well column today, going very humanly about their business.

In the sixty years since the National Tuberculosis Association was founded, the TB death rate in the United States has been cut drastically; the total number of people saved from dying of tuberculosis is estimated at about nine million.

But a sizeable problem still remains to be faced, with more than 53,000 new cases of active TB and 10,000 relapses yearly, and with a rise in other respiratory diseases. This does not mean that the least diminish the importance of what has been accomplished. But the job is not finished. World wide, Christmas Seals are helping to get the job done.

As we celebrate this Sixtieth Anniversary year of the National Tuberculosis Association, we wish to voice our thanks to the many devoted persons in the fields of government, industry, labor, medicine, and health, civic and church work who have lent their support in the still uncompleted struggle to control tuberculosis and other respiratory diseases.

This life-saving work is supported only by your voluntary service, and financed only by your Christmas Seal contributions. Please answer your Christmas Seal letter today and give generously.

931

--- PAGE 932 (PDF page 975) ---
The Christmas Gift

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman kneeling and giving a wrapped gift to a small boy, with a Christmas tree in the background]

Kathryn E. Franks

WHAT would you like for Christmas more than anything else?" Danny, my five-year-old son asked, as he slid into a chair by the kitchen table on which I was busy cutting out a red Christmas apron.

He had just come in from kindergarten and I felt that to him it was a very important question. It had to do, I was certain, with something he was making at school.

"Oh," I said, "I'd like a new automatic washer, a new dryer, a set of new dishes, a bright red Christmas dress, with a bit of sparkly trimming, a dishwasher, a sewing machine, a pancake turner, a waste paper basket. . . ."

Danny was no longer listening. He had suddenly dived under the table.

When I again started cutting, my small son sneaked back upon the chair and settled himself. He continued questioning.

"If you had a new washer in your bathroom, what color would you like it to be?"

"Pink," I answered quickly, "to match the new walls."

This brought such brightness to his face I thought the sunlight had burst through the kitchen window. He popped from his chair and simply cart-wheeled straight out of the kitchen.

Danny didn't mention the subject again for several days, although it was continually on my mind. I was anxious to find out what in the world he could be making.

I gave up. There was no use guessing.

Then a clue came the evening before the school program. "If

932