[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 953 | PDF Page 996]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 953 (PDF page 996) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

work. (3) Enthusiasm; one must be enthusiastic about his assignment. Every person should be enthusiastic about his membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is a distinction and an opportunity to be assigned a part in this great latter-day movement. Each person in a position in this Church is, in a special sense, a witness of the divine nature of the restored gospel. (4) Worthiness; it is most obvious that one must be worthy before accepting a call. Worthiness may be evaluated by observing oneself in relation to the following: (a) being a regular participant in the important meetings of the Church; (b) believing in and participating regularly in prayer; (c) being honest with the Lord in tithes and offerings; (d) keeping the law of chastity; (e) sustaining the prophet of God, including no evil speaking of the Lord's anointed; (f) knowing the true value of the Word of Wisdom and applying it; (g) having proper respect for the Lord's holy day; and (h) evidencing his dedication to the accomplishment of the work of the Lord. There may be other criteria but these mentioned will serve as good examples of the requirements of a person to be worthy to hold a position in the Church.

Therefore, any person who has a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, who is willing to accept a calling through proper authority, and who is willing to pay the price suggested above, can successfully fill any call that comes to him in the Church. By accepting the opportunity for service in the Church, one cannot help but advance both mentally and spiritually. A major compensation for devoted service is the joy that comes from the witness of the Holy Ghost in enlarging the personal conviction as to the reality of God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ.

THE GROUP EFFECT

It is stimulating to think of the potential within each ward of the Church manned with some two hundred fifty workers, dedicated to the advancement and general welfare of mankind. If each individual in the ward could fully qualify under the criteria mentioned above, the influence of such a group could affect for good the standards and values of the whole community. (See Lesson 18.)

The building of the kingdom of God on earth will require performance on the part of each member equal to or higher than that suggested in the earlier part of this lesson. To build the kingdom from a material point of view is a problem of effective use of nature's products; but from a human point of view, the challenge is far greater. This requires convincing the men and women of this world that the way of life taught by Jesus Christ is the effective, productive way to live.

To accomplish this, the hearts of people must be touched; and the way to their hearts is love and understanding. This requires an army of men and women directed by the power of God who can demonstrate the effectiveness of the gospel plan in everyday living.

A CALL TO SERVICE

To build an army of workers equal to the task at hand, at least

953
