[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 389 | PDF Page 406]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 389 (PDF page 406) ---
Joy

Olive Sharp

THE Book of Mormon says, "Men are that they might have joy." Then we must look on the bright side of every event and have faith in God who knows what he is doing. If we have faith and ask for his guidance everyday, someday we will understand.

How can anyone be downcast? We mortals can only see the present and the past, but not the future. God alone can see that. So we must have faith in him.

We should look and see the beauty all around us, the mountains, the rivers, the flowers, the trees, and the birds that are so beautiful. We should see and protect all the beauty in the world about us.

If we should catch ourselves finding fault with our friends, we should stop and consider that we do not understand their circumstances, and try to find something good about them, or do some kindness for them. Let us do this now, for we shall not pass this way again.

I try to search out the lovely promises in the scriptures, such as the beautiful Twenty-Third Psalm, and I also like the 121st. They are so full of comfort and beauty, and while I am on the subject of beauty, there is something which I must not skip. I have subscribed for The Relief Society Magazine for many years and send seven Magazines for Christmas presents to relatives in Alaska, South America, California, and to a favorite cousin in South Dakota who is not of our faith, but who reads every article. The covers are so beautiful, there can be no question about that, as she wrote, "I have the April cover framed and hanging in my room. They are all so beautiful that I would not know which to frame."

There are several ways we can dispose of The Relief Society Magazine which will bring joy to many people when we have finished studying the lessons. We can take them to some rest home or hospital or give them to some friend who does not subscribe. I have gathered the Magazines and taken them to a rest home, and the attendant at the desk said they were more than pleased to have them, and the women always looked anxiously for the next ones.

I always try to put my best foot forward, but sometimes get my feet mixed up.

Double Your Pleasure—
Double Your Subscription

Ouida Johns Pedersen

Many times I buy paper-backed editions of books I wish to read, then when I am finished with them, I feel I can afford to give them away to others. When they have completed them, I ask them to pass the books along to someone else. This way, I feel that I really get the most value for my money.

The other day I had a wonderful idea that some of the sisters might like to share. Why not get a double subscription to the Relief Society Magazine? I am always wanting to cut something out, a recipe or an apt quotation from an inspirational article. Some times, I would like to share the recipes with a friend, or send a poem to someone I feel might enjoy it. At the same time, I want to save my Magazines for future lesson material and reference. The modest price of the magazine makes this a little luxury I can indulge myself in without feeling guilty. This year why not "Double your pleasure," double your subscription!

389
