[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 65 | PDF Page 66]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 65 (PDF page 66) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

modeled. Box for disposal the mistakes, the misfits, those which will never be worn again which can be given away with profit.

Step number two: have a notebook, write the name of each person in the family, allowing sufficient space to list each person's needs. Make three divisions for each (1) Sunday best, (2) everyday, (3) special; what you have and what you need.

It will then be easy to list what each person has that is usable, and the process of sorting and listing will suggest possible needs for the year ahead.

Step number three: have a family council and discuss your plan, stressing these items:

a. A Sunday outfit is important for every individual in the family. Psychologically, one is more likely to act his best if he looks his best, and surely one should be at his best on the Lord's Day. Check your list and see what the family can do to get in condition for Sunday wear and decide what is needed for the year ahead.

b. Appropriate daytime clothes for school or work are essential. One can forget about how he looks if he knows he is appropriately dressed and can then concentrate on the work. Drip-dry shirts and blouses, easy-to-care-for skirts and trousers, and no-iron underwear lighten the task of caring for these clothes and should be a major consideration in planning for the year ahead.

c. Sportswear and clothes for special occasions are important, but come third on the list and should not swallow up most of the budget. A swimsuit for one, tennis outfit for another, a cub scout or party dress for others are examples. Special interests determine what should be included.

d. Where the money will come from and the amount that can be allocated for clothing require careful study. How much money will be needed for the year ahead? Make an estimate. What can each do to help get what is needed? Here is a splendid opportunity to encourage initiative in earning and in learning how to make and care for clothing.

Step number four: learn the basic rules for thrifty shopping.

1. Shop with a list; buy only the items planned for; know what you want, and don't depend on a saleslady to tell you what to get.

2. Have a color plan, a basic color could be decided upon for each family member. Then, whatever is purchased can be coordinated in various combinations.

3. Buy at the end of the season, and get what you need at a fraction of the cost paid by early-season shoppers.

4. Look for good-quality fabrics and simple, beautiful lines that will bring satisfaction.

5. Learn to sew and make your own clothes; a clever woman with a needle and thread can stretch the budget twice the distance.

Perhaps most important of all, the homemaker must become clothes conscious to know how clothes can lift the soul, if they are flattering in line and scale and texture. And don't forget color. Just because a woman is advancing in years doesn't mean that she should shift into neutral. Color is important for all ages.

The homemaker by her own appearance can set the example. By taking stock of herself she can encourage family members to take stock of themselves. An attractive mother in a well-kept home can set the tone for high family morale. Careful wardrobe planning can be of inestimable help in this, as well as in balancing the budget.

65
