[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 175 | PDF Page 180]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 175 (PDF page 180) ---
"CHARITY NEVER FAILETH"

THE Relief Society, established by the Holy Priesthood of God, blesses its sisters everywhere — the sisters on the Indian reservation, sisters who are students or wives of students or wives of servicemen who are far away from home, our sisters at home, and our sisters in every country in the world where the Church is permitted to function. It is a blessing to hear their testimonies and to hear the reports from these many wonderful branches of our Relief Society, and I hope that the prayer will be answered in behalf of those dear sisters who were prayed for this morning in the closing prayer, those who are far away from us, who are working under difficulty, who have that same love for the gospel that we have, may they be successful in their efforts and be able to accomplish the things that they would like to do. I was thrilled with the report of the growth of the Church and the wonderful accomplishments of those dear, devoted, faithful sisters in faraway South Africa. Naturally, I have a tender spot in my heart for the South African Mission because that was where my little family was permitted to go and serve some years ago. I was thrilled, and my heart was filled to overflowing when we received the little mission pamphlet, and on the cover of this was a picture of 100 Singing Mothers dressed in their white blouses. They had met in the beautiful city of Pretoria, which is the capital of South Africa, and they furnished the music there for the dedicatory service of a new chapel. They had been given a promise. Our Heavenly Father said, ". . . my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." Yes, these Singing Mothers, this beautiful Singing Mothers chorus that we have with us today, and the Singing Mothers throughout the Church have received many blessings upon their heads because of the songs of righteousness which they have sung to our Heavenly Father.

There was a sister who was the wife of a serviceman who was away with her little family and her husband for the first time. She was invited to join the small Relief Society that was organized on the military base for wives of servicemen. She said that the sweet spirit of sisterhood that existed there, and the concern that those sisters had for each other, and the sweet association, were a great source of comfort and joy to her. She was taken seriously ill and was unable to take care of her little family while her husband was on duty. The Relief Society sisters came to her aid. They prepared meals and kept her home in order until she was able to return and was strong enough to take over for herself. It was here that this sister realized the true meaning of sisterhood and of service. She bore a beautiful testimony of

171
