[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 78 | PDF Page 79]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 78 (PDF page 79) ---
WORLD'S FAIR TOURS

21 days — June 21 to July 11
World's Fair, Church historical places
(does not include pageant).

27 days — July 13 to August 8
World's Fair, Church historical places.
Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also,
Quebec and Montreal, Canada.

24 days — July 23 to August 15
World's Fair, Church historical places,
including Hill Cumorah Pageant.

All tours include: Show at Jones'
Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway
Show and a special event ticket at
World's Fair, etc.

Esther James Tours
460 7th Avenue
Salt Lake City, Utah 84103
Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051

GOLD
MEDALLION
HOME

[MEDALLION LOGO: Circular medallion with house and figures]

A wonderful new
way to live

UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
Buy now from your dealer

Summary

The opportunities and responsibilities involved in a calling in Church government are about equal in their bearing upon the person involved. The opportunities result in growth and development of the individual. The responsibilities require service to others; assisting them in their pursuit of happiness, understanding, and perfection. This unselfish dedication to service increases the efficiency and effectiveness of the person and builds confidence and competency in his leadership. The compensation is great in net returns to the individual accepting a calling. The true value of service is derived from the consecration of time and talent to the work of the Lord which, in simple terms, is the uplifting of mankind.

References

Doctrine and Covenants 58:21.
WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 16; 18.
TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Articles of Faith, Chapters 10; 24.
SMITH, HENRY A., "Dynamic Leadership of the First Presidency Accelerates Pace of Church-Wide Activity," Church News, December 29, 1962, page 6.

Thoughts for Discussion

1. In what way does the law of consecration apply in this lesson?
2. What human characteristics interfere most with service in behalf of and consideration for the welfare of mankind?
3. What is the importance of a lay leadership in the plan of salvation?
4. What are the opportunities that arise out of service in the Church program?
5. What is the proper procedure for notifying a person of his selection for an office in the Church?
6. What is the problem involved in this quotation "Many are called, but few are chosen"?

78
