[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 898 | PDF Page 937]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 898 (PDF page 937) ---
DECEMBER 1964

best. They need to be taught the gospel by precept as well as by example.

No story is more thrilling and exciting to a child than that of the Prophet Joseph going into the woods to pray, and that God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ appeared to him and talked to him. They can listen to it over and over again. Then to be told how he withstood all temptations, though he was criticized and ridiculed and abused, and had no Sunday School or Church to attend from the time he was fifteen until eighteen years of age; how the angel appeared to him; and how John the Baptist and Peter, James, and John came to him, can be most impressive.

In fact, there is nothing more appealing to children than the beautiful stories contained in the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and in Church history, and the simple principles of the gospel as taught by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

Now, my brothers and sisters, I should like to bear you my testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel as taught by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I wish to assure you that if you take this gospel seriously, and you must, into your homes and each of you live it every day in your community, your influence will be felt and you will be filling your mission here upon the earth.

I further wish to bear my witness that God does live, that Jesus is the Christ, and that they are interested in us, and stand ready to answer our prayers. Further, that we have at the head of the Church today a prophet of God directing this work.

May we all be worthy of these things, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

Christmas 1897
Enola Chamberlin

So young I was I would not now remember
Were I not often told in later days,
That we were threading through the late December
Across the desert's solitary ways —
Until we reached where mountains cut the sky,
And climbed them with the horses' heavy tramp,
To heavy clouds where cold winds scurried by;
And drew aside to make our night-time camp.
We slept within the wagon, snug below
The heavy canvas top, and waked to see
The bare ground laid across with glistening snow,
As jeweled gifts held out by every tree.

My father bowed his head, "Come, let us pray,
And thank God for this lovely Christmas day."

894
