[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 114 | PDF Page 119]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 114 (PDF page 119) ---
A Valentine
for my husband

Helen Hinckley Jones

TODAY is Valentine's day — the day for lovers and for love. When we were young the beautiful valentine box at school was almost as exciting as Christmas with Santa Claus and his false whiskers, his hearty voice that sounded so much like Brother Hartman's, his bags of candy and unshelled nuts.

On Valentine's day we didn't want anyone in our schoolroom to be hurt or left out, so we proudly slipped a valentine for every member of the class in that fabulous red and white box. All day we fidgeted, waiting for the last period when the box would be opened and the valentines would be distributed. After that magic hour we proudly surveyed our remembrances. If everybody liked us we had as many valentines as there were children in the room. What happiness!

More important than the sentiments expressed in neat trite verses was the beauty of the valentines. Collapsible tissue inserts that stretched to things of rare beauty when the valentine stood up by itself, giving an extra dimension to the picture; animation in the form of moving arms, legs, eyes; enormous size — all of these were more important to us than the loving care bestowed upon wallpaper and floral creations. First we counted the "boughten" valentines — then the others. Yet we made valentines filled with love and thoughtfulness for our mothers, and if we had any time left over we made them for our fathers.

In those days to be liked by everyone was enough — and with a heap of valentines to prove this, our cup was running over.

As we grew older the valentine box disappeared from our teacher's desk. Then we wanted not half a hundred valentines, but one from that special person. We were learning that "all the little bees and all the little bears, never go by threes but always go in pairs." We didn't know what love was; but we did know how it felt to be

114
