[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 49 | PDF Page 50]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_01_22_Poem_Exile.txt (371 bytes)]

--- PAGE 48 (PDF page 49) ---
JANUARY 1964

gled Banner," and tears glistened in Margaret's eyes as she looked from one face to another, Hawaiian, Japanese, Filipino, Chinese, and Haole.

"Such devotion," she murmured.

"All Americans," Luana answered. "They know all five verses. Listen!"

As the sun turned coral in the west, they went happily homeward. Philip led the way. They were still singing as they rode down the valley road.

GAILY colored lanterns were lighted in the garden, where the table was set for the birthday cake. There were thirteen candles for each boy. Family presents were piled high on two little tables beside the big one.

Benjy jumped for joy when he saw his new steel guitar. He gave everyone a hug and a kiss. But Bo was very quiet as he unwrapped his large painting set.

Luana, watching him closely, wanted him to be pleased with it. She hoped he would understand that they had given him an expensive set because they appreciated his talent and wanted him to develop it.

His fingers moved across the pallet, then he carefully lifted each tube of paint and each box of crayons. He felt the quality of the drawing paper. At last he looked at Luana and Ben and his blue eyes were luminous.

"Thanks," he said in a quiet voice. "How did you know . . . I . . . wanted this?"

"We know what you need,"

Luana answered. "You have a wonderful talent. Bo, we are so glad you are pleased with your present."

"It's — the — greatest!" he said with a kind of rapture in his eyes.

"Anybody home?" a strong, manly voice called from the lanai.

Everyone turned to greet Elder Farnsworth, the branch president. He was a tall, slender, kindly man with gray hair streaked by the sun. His dark eyes were deep set and sincere. Everyone in the branch loved him dearly. He had an understanding heart and seemed able to discern what troubled people without questioning them.

"Happy birthday, boys," he said, smiling at Benjy and Bo. "I'm not really an uninvited guest. Your brother Philip invited me."

"I surely did!" Philip said, coming forward to stand beside Elder Farnsworth. "I thought this would be a good time to tell my family, when we're all together. You see, Mother and Dad," his eyes met theirs, "I have been asked about going on a mission. Elder Farnsworth has come to talk to you about it."

LUANA was not sure how she got through the next half hour. She was gracious and cordial to Elder Farnsworth. She was humbly grateful that Philip was worthy to be called, but, later, she lay in bed wide-eyed and sleepless. Where was the money coming from to send Philip on his mission?

48

--- PAGE 49 (PDF page 50) ---
KISS OF THE WIND

Ben slept restlessly beside her. She slipped out of bed without disturbing him. She would go to her lagoon where she had always gone to think and pray when she needed help.

It was one of those Hawaiian nights with a great, lustrous pearly moon that turned the white sand into glistening crystal. A soft, feathery wind rumpled the blue velvet waves in enchanting rhythm. No one could see this lagoon in the moonlight and not yearn to see it again and again and again.

Her heart beat up into her throat! There, on the beach, was a woman sitting before an easel, painting a picture of her lagoon. It was Margaret!

Luana stood in stunned silence as she realized that Margaret, too, had decided that this particular place would make a perfect painting for the contest.

The white sand was cold beneath Luana's feet. She shivered, although the night was warm. Covering her face with her hands, she tried to hold back the resentment that almost choked her. She was ashamed of the thoughts that tumbled through her mind.

Margaret did not need the money from the contest the way Luana needed it. She did not have a teenage girl who needed to have her teeth straightened; no daughter who must have a pretty wedding; no son who had been called on a mission; no twin boys who needed lessons in art and music. Margaret's husband was a successful businessman, and Margaret's paintings had sold for large sums of money. Didn't Margaret realize that Ben was striving to hold on to this plantation?

Why, oh, why, Luana asked herself with a sob, did this contest mean so much to Margaret? Why did she work so desperately now in the middle of the night?

Quietly Luana knelt on the sandy beach, lifting her heart in prayer. She asked her Heavenly Father to free her from selfishness and resentment and cruel jealousy of Margaret. Her heart cried out in remorse. She could not bear to feel this way. Her Heavenly Father must know that she was not asking to win the contest for herself, but only for her husband and her children.

(To be concluded)

Exile

Gilean Douglas

And now I go from water — from the sound
Which has caressed me through the nights and days.
My feet will turn to distant, arid ways —
And sometimes stand quite still on desert ground
Because the wind through dusty palms has sighed
Like sleepy water on an ebbing tide.

49

--- PAGE 50 (PDF page 51) ---
Notes FROM THE FIELD

General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker

All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.

RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Central German Mission, Rhine-Ruhr District Singing Mothers Present Music for District Conference
March 1963

Seated at the right in the second row: Ruby Mae Richards, former president, Central German Mission Relief Society; seated, front row, at the right: Katherine M. Miller, chorister.

Sister Richards reports: "This fine chorus furnished the music for the March district conference at Duesseldorf. Sister Miller is the wife of the building supervisor in Essen. We are very proud of our chorus, and especially proud of Sister Miller. She has had years of experience as chorister in her stake in Ogden, Utah. With her talent and her sweet, loving personality, she had our sisters singing like angels, in spite of the fact that she could speak only a few words of German.

"Also participating at the conference as organist was Sister Koehler; also present was Martha Amenda, President of the Rhine-Ruhr District Relief Society."

Ruth Watkins Benson is the new president of the Central German Mission.

50

--- PAGE 51 (PDF page 52) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Torrance Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference
May 12, 1963

Mary Jane Rahlf, President, Torrance Stake Relief Society, stands second from the right in the front row; Kathryn L. Squire, former president, stands at the left in the front row; Norma L. Gagon, chorister, stands next to Sister Squire; Jean L. Terry, accompanist, is seated at the piano.

Sister Rahlf reports: "This conference marked the third one at which our Singing Mothers have been privileged to perform. In October 1962 they produced a very successful musical, and are planning a Christmas musical for 1963 under the very able direction of Sister Gagon. Our membership totals forty-five, but we are expanding rapidly with renewed enthusiasm."

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Mount Logan Stake, Utah, Relief Society Officers
August 15, 1963

Left to right: Ella O. Davis, Secretary-Treasurer; Delilah Marshall, First Counselor; Ella H. Rinderknecht, Second Counselor; Anna O. Smith, former President.

Sister Smith reports: "The table arrangement was done by Hazel Henderson, in colors of blue and gold. Most of the grapes she made of wax. For special occasions, Sister Henderson has made beautiful table arrangements for the Relief Society Stake Board."

Lola Gibbons is the new president of Mount Logan Stake Relief Society.

51