[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 73 | PDF Page 74]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 73 (PDF page 74) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Because of this opportunity for training, the Church can and does rightly expect an improved leadership from each new generation.

An important part of this leadership training is the formulation of an attitude of willingness to serve. Members in this Church need to develop a positive attitude toward acceptance of any call to serve. This comes from continued teaching and encouragement to all members from the time of their baptism. It is also greatly influenced by proper example set by their elders.

Numbers Involved in Leadership
From the six members present at the organization of the Church on April 6, 1830, there has been a continual growth in membership. With this increase, which has reached an approximate total of two million members (November 1963) there has been a tremendous increase in the number of administrative units in the government of the Church. The number of stakes has reached 387 (November 1963) and the wards and branches in stakes now number approximately 3,588, and there are 73 missions.

The importance of the above statistics in this discussion is the increase of officers and teachers required to operate this great organization. An average size ward (550 members) needs approximately 250 officers and teachers to complete the organization for their regular activities. In addition, it requires approximately 120 leaders to office the stake organization properly. Both ward and stake leadership and the officers needed to operate the general Church organization constitute a tremendous army of active members, numbering approximately forty-five per cent of the total membership.

It is the practice of the Church to give one assignment to a person. Also, it is customary to change the assignment from time to time. This gives more people opportunity for service with a wider experience in Church government.

The Call to Service
We believe that the leaders of this Church are called by divine authority and that they may enjoy the blessings of inspiration and revelation in carrying out their assignments.

Divine authority, revelation, and inspiration are involved in every assignment made in Church government. Each person is called by the Priesthood to the position he holds and may have hands laid upon him, receiving the blessings of heaven to assist him in carrying out his calling.

1. Selection of Leaders. Selection of proper leaders is a vital responsibility of the presiding officers in branches, wards, stakes, missions, and the general organization of the Church. Using the ward unit as an example, the bishop is responsible for the welfare of his ward members, spiritually and temporally. Teaching plays a major role in the program of the Church. The ward experience provides the major part of the religious training for the members of the Church. The bishop, therefore, must know his people well enough so that he can select as leaders and teachers those who can give strength and understanding of

73
