[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 331 | PDF Page 348]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_05_05_SpFt_Literary.txt (466 bytes)]

--- PAGE 330 (PDF page 347) ---
MAY 1964

not be published nor submitted
elsewhere for publication until
the contest is decided.

6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story.

7. A writer who has received the
first prize for two consecutive years
must wait for two years before she
again eligible to enter the contest.

8. The judges shall consist of one
member of the General Board, one
person from the English department of
an educational institution, and one
person who is a recognized writer. In
case of complete disagreement among
the judges, all stories selected for a
place by the various judges will be

submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision.

In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following
points:

a. Characters and their presentation.
b. Plot development
c. Message of the story
d. Writing style

9. Entries must be postmarked not
later than August 15, 1964.

10. All entries are to be addressed
to Relief Society Short Story Contest,
76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah
84111.

[ILLUSTRATION]

Secret
Ida Elaine James

School girls ever and endlessly,
Twos and threes and single file
Swinging their book straps, sweaters . . . free!
Breast the upgrade with a smile;
Crossing, re-crossing each other . . . behind,
In front and beside . . . stop, start, and march.
I wonder what it is they find
To smile about so much. The arch
Of the gully is gray and overhung
With dried, sad branches. Summer is dead,
Loose stones are rude, yet gayly among
Rough paths below, drab overhead,
They thread their way, daily, and smile.
One turns off alone; she looks at me.
I follow her glance for half a mile —
At the sky, at her toes, up at a tree.
There's nothing but December air;
Nothing to smile at that I can see.
My searching circles everywhere;
She smiles and smiles . . . why should she?

330

--- PAGE 331 (PDF page 348) ---
Your Poem
and You

Eva Willes Wangsgaard

Author of Singing Hearts, After the Blossoming, Down This Road, Shape of Earth.

MOST of what I have to say of poetry will incline toward the traditional, by which I mean that great part of our poetic literature from "Beowulf" to Robert Frost, "Death of the Hired Man," in which the reader identified himself or herself with the characters, understood the ideals by which they lived and for which they died, and, knowing them, cast a light on the reader's own problems and purposes. From generation to generation through centuries, these poems have shed their influence on the growth of civilization as we know it.

No one has so far created a satisfactory answer to the question: What is a poem? We can only open little doors. Poems resemble apples. They are of infinite variety, from the pretty but pulpless rose pip to the luscious Golden Delicious. A poem must be attractive in form to entice the reader, have meat you can sink your mental teeth into, a flavor that delights, excites, and satisfies, a core of wisdom, and seeds to project into other hearts and, perhaps, into the future. And, like the tree, a poem must have a reservoir of food from which to draw its sustenance. Now, how do you fill this reservoir?

You Learn
Fundamentals

FIRST — A beginning poet needs a good rhyming dictionary, for, whether or not she ever intends to write rhyming verse, she should know what she is using or rejecting and give her poetry a chance to shape its own form before it is born. Besides, a rhyming dictionary, at least the one you will buy or own, begins with a chapter which explains and illustrates feet, meter, verse, variations, and stanza forms, and does it interestingly and enjoyably.

Now well as you study that you have already picked up subconsciously, through reading, many of the patterns and devices explained here. For instance, everyone, poet or layman, is aware of meter and rhyme to some degree. But the other phases of the subject, you can study and learn and store in the reservoir of your subconscious so they will be as automatic as your grammar and English usage.

SECOND — Increase your vocabulary. A good Thesaurus helps here. It groups words and phrases on specific subjects and presents them alphabetically, words that convey kindness, for instance, classifying them as to nouns, verbs, adjectives, and ad-

331

--- PAGE 332 (PDF page 349) ---
MAY 1964

verbs, and including phrases as well as words.

A good vocabulary includes the knowledge of the different meanings of a word. Merriam-Webster's Unabridged lists at least thirteen different meanings for the word take. You should study, at the same time, the values in letters and their play on the emotions. There are liquid sounds like l and n, sibilants like s, dentals like d and t. Live with them, roll them around on your tongue, feel them, so that when you need them they cluster around a thought as iron filings collect on a magnet.

THIRD — Be natural. Write in the language of today as you speak, not in the vintage of an older day when words like o'er and e'er were in common usage and so are found in poetry also. Above all, let your language be sincere and natural, not necessarily conscious of being written.

FOURTH — Read, read, and read. Especially read history, geography, the classics, and the Bible. Familiarize yourself with the general sciences — botany, geology, ornithology, and with philosophies and doctrines. From these spring your future allusions and images, and knowledge deepens your thinking and enhances your expression.

FIFTH — Be aware. Make friends with all the living things about you. Know the shape of a leaf, its feel and texture; know the grasses, the bark of trees. Be aware of color in everything, petals, sky, old wood, rushes and reeds, earth and sea, everywhere. Become acutely aware of sounds and forms. Increase your interest and wonder. And store all

332

this as naturally as your body accepts its food.

SIXTH — Write. Try out various meters, verse and stanza forms. Try out your thoughts. Let them flow. Criticize your technique afterward, but do not let it impede the flow.

SEVENTH — and perhaps most important — Find the inner you. Let your thoughts sink into "I" far beyond "where you, and only you, dwell, so that the flavor of you is a part of every poem you write, not what you have been taught, or have read or heard, but really you. The savor of your experiences, your interpretations, incidents seen through your eyes, and your appreciation of your world, must enrich your poem.

An Illustration

Let us illustrate the birth of a minor poem. Let us say, "Today has been a golden day." We have the beginning of a lyric, a four-footed iambic line. Now particularize, and the poem grows. "What was golden about this day?" "A lark sent up a trill, and notes like golden music rolled back down the sky's blue hill." Now we have the color blue contrasting with the goldenness of sound and emphasizing it. What else? "Two finches shunted nuggets back and forth from throat to throat, and birch lace sifted sunlight fine to gild a warbler's coat." Now we have enriched the vocabulary of gold with nugget and gild, and the words shunted and sifted which are more effective than adjectives in describing what is happening. Wings and movement have entered the picture. Sunlight is there with its

--- PAGE 333 (PDF page 350) ---
YOUR POEM AND YOU

hint of goldenness. The warbler's coat is yellow and a memory is stirred of its capability of golden song. "My baby played with golden blocks, with gold dust in his hair, while I washed gold plates in gleaming suds, for gold was everywhere." Now we move inside and see the speaker washing dishes and looking out the window with her baby sitting in the

cone of sunlight streaming through the panes, gilding his hair and the blocks. She is so happy that even the suds are gleaming. Then we conclude by tying back to the opening line which set the theme. "Today has been a golden day. Did you not find it such? Was it the wind or just my heart that had the Midas touch?"

REFERENCES

Hamilton, Anne: Seven Principles of Poetry
Hillyer, Robert: First Principles of Verse
(Published by The Writer, Inc., 8 Arlington Street, Boston, Mass.)
Holmes, John: Writing Poetry
Wood, Clement: Unabridged Rhyming Dictionary
(The World Publishing Company, 2231 West 10th Street, Cincinnati, Ohio)
Rogets Thesaurus of the English Language
(Garden City Publishing Company, Garden City, New York)

[ILLUSTRATION]

Spring Lambs
Vesta N. Fairbairn

Peaceful, the deep-wooled sheep
In lush, green grasses keep
Their lively lambs, new-born,
And huddled in the buckthorn
The gray, half-buried rocks
Are sleeping hillside flocks,
While soft as wool, and white
As fleece the blown clouds might
Be spring lambs browsing high
Blue pastures of the sky.

333