[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 61 | PDF Page 62]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 61 (PDF page 62) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

devotion to duty are the keys to receiving eternal life, or exaltation. President Anthon H. Lund said: "Our religion is one in which we are called upon to show our faith by our works." As an example of this truism, missionary calls made upon the Church membership are most appropriate. The question as to how much pay will be received for this service is far from the mind of the Latter-day Saint. The impelling motive is one of duty all the glorious message of the gospel may be shared with others. Distance or place is not a consideration, but rather it is, "I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord."

Missionary Procedures

In missionary language, the "going from house to house" is known as "tracting." (D & C 75:18.) When the missionary is received into a house, he is counseled to leave his blessing with that house. (Ibid., verse 19.) The gospel is the blessing, although the prayer in the home for the benefit of the host is a direct way in which this counsel may be followed.

The missionaries in the day of judgment will be judges of the houses that reject them, and it will be more tolerable for the heathen in that day than for those who rejected them. (D & C 75:21-22.) As President John Taylor has pointed out, judgment, under God, is committed to Christ; then to the Twelve Apostles; and then to the saints, including certain officers in the Priesthood. (Mediation and Atonement, Chapter 22.) President Charles W. Penrose said:

... The great judgment that is to come will not be altogether performed by one individual sitting upon a great white throne and passing judgment upon millions upon millions of the earth's inhabitants. God's house is a house of order, and the Lord will have agents appointed as he has now behind the veil as well as in the flesh, and when the great judgment comes, all will be judged according to their works, and the books will be opened, and the book of Life will be scanned and the man's acts and the women's acts upon the earth will be disclosed, and we will all confess in our souls that the judgment is just and righteous, because it will be uttered and delivered by one having authority and the seal of God will be upon it. (Conference Report, October 1916, page 24).

Another testimony to this effect is given in the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 440.

The idea that it will be more tolerable for the heathen in the day of judgment than for those who reject the gospel, suggests that since the heathen will be assigned to the terrestrial kingdom (D & C 45:54; 76:72), the willfully corrupt may be in a lesser kingdom. Unless the missionary does his work faithfully, he may be accused by those whom he neglected. (Ibid., 43:19-20.)

Assist in the Work

The members of the Church in 1832 were placed under the responsibility of assisting the families of the missionaries who could not sustain them. (Ibid., 75:24-25.) In case there were some who could not go on missions they should provide for their families and "would in nowise lose his [their] crown." However, they were admonished to labor in the Church. (Ibid., verse 28.) Activity in the kingdom is an essential in obtaining the blessings of heaven.

61
