[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 482 | PDF Page 506]
[Title: Frontispiece (p481) + From Near and Far (p482)]

--- PAGE 481 (PDF page 505) ---
For a Grandchild

Dorothy J. Roberts

You cannot hear the rhythmic hum
Of the ancient spinning wheel that turned
Nor see the smile shaping her face
As the homemade tallow candles burned.

But you see triumph on her brow,
The head erect, the well-brushed hair,
Features molded by her faith.
Even the work-worn hands are fair.

Fearlessly she faced the day,
Trusting the one source of supply
Given by a mightier hand
For her own industry to ply.

Keep this image in her mind;
This is beauty faith has made
Out of substance such as we,
When the willing hand obeyed.

Keep her memory in repair,
Forever potent as a seed;
Save some fragment of her strength
For the moment of your need.

The Cover: State Capitol, Salt Lake City, Utah
          Transparency by Gordon Warner
          Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Spinning the Thread of Time
             Photograph by Leland Van Wagoner

Art Layout:   Dick Scopes
Illustrations: Mary Scopes

--- PAGE 482 (PDF page 506) ---
From Near and Far

The April Magazine, like all the other issues, is a thing of beauty. I had to sit and ponder the cover picture before dipping inside, for there were the bright red hills of home—Utah. The lovely cover of each Magazine holds fascination and invitation to me, and so I go inside for complete reading enjoyment. The first prize story "Moment of Trust," by Mary Ek Knowles (January 1964) was excellent. And in April I am happy to see the work of Evelyn Eyelsted again with her short essay "Springtime Again." Her writings possess real music and beauty.

Alice Gubler Sabin
Yakima, Washington

After reading Margaret Russell's article "Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!" in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine, my heart was filled with joy when I thought about the number of sisters in the gospel I have gained since becoming a member of the Church. Being an only child, I never knew the joy of having blood brothers and sisters. But since becoming a member of the Church, I have had that longing fulfilled. For eighteen months I was president of the Kanderau Branch Relief Society. Another sister and I used to travel twenty-two miles each way to attend our meetings. Recently we were made into a dependent branch and my husband is branch president. As yet we do not have an organized Relief Society, so you can guess how much I look forward to receiving my Magazine.

Mary Sykes Muir
Whakatane, New Zealand

I enjoy so very much the beautiful covers and frontispieces of The Relief Society Magazine. They bring back such lovely memories of the places in Utah which were so common to me as a young girl. The picture of the South Fork of the Provo River in the April issue is especially beautiful.

Eileen Mecham Cleland
Rawlins, Wyoming

We enjoyed so much the article "What Does Your Speech Reveal?" by Myrtle E. Henderson, in the March issue of the Magazine, and we think it would be a big help towards speech improvement if we could have this kind of material regularly. We surely enjoy the Magazine.

Ruth Capp
Vale, Oregon

The Magazine came yesterday, and it is such an excellent collection of stories, poems, and articles that I want to thank you for myself and all the sisters who read it. The article "The Family Goes Back to School" (by Elaine Reiser Alder, May 1964) seemed to have been written for me personally, as my husband and I are looking forward to going to Brigham Young University next fall. The poems and stories paid such a beautiful tribute to mothers that every mother should be privileged to read this issue.

Sharon R. Hawley
Norfolk, Virginia

We become as one through the Relief Society Magazine. I have a son serving in New Zealand on a mission. A dear sister there who is a Relief Society president has been very kind to him. In correspondence with me, and telling about their bazaar, she referred me to the September issue of the Magazine and the Monument Park Stake displays. In turn, I called her attention to the July 1963 Magazine wherein the Mount Ogden Stake bazaar is featured. And so we become as one.

Ethel T. Lewis
Ogden, Utah

I think the Magazine is wonderful and the lesson material superb. I want especially to thank Christine H. Robinson for the effort and research she puts into our visiting teacher messages. I often use excerpts from her messages in my talks before the Parent Teachers Association meetings.

Rayella Richardson
Santa Barbara, California

482

--- PAGE 483 (PDF page 507) ---
The Relief Society Magazine

VOLUME 51        JULY 1964        NUMBER 7

Editor  Marianne C. Sharp        Associate Editor  Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager  Belle S. Spafford

Special Features
484  Victory Over Wilderness    Alberta H. Christensen
490  Disciplining Children in the Latter-day Saint Home    Nell Folkman
508  A Tribute to Relief Society Presidents    Lois Tanner
509  The Young Go Visiting Teaching    Ella K. Hundsman

Fiction
494  Don't Leave Me    Helen B. Gibbons
502  Momentous Decision    Beatrice R. Parsons
523  Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 6    Hazel M. Thomson

General Features
482  From Near and Far
499  Woman's Sphere    Ramona W. Cannon
500  Editorial: The Intent of The Heart    Marianne C. Sharp
501  Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities    Hulda Parker
560  Birthday Congratulations

The Home - Inside and Out
Thoughts for a Summer Day, by Caroline Eyring Miner, 511; Diet As a Way of Life, by Margaret F. Maxwell, 512; How to Remodel a Fitted Suit, by Bonnie S. Hansen, 516; "Train Up a Child," by Dorothy Hicks, 517; Delilah Davis Pike — Her Hobbies Bring Happiness, 518; The Sego Lily — Flower of the Pioneers, by Celia Luce, 519; I'm Writing Five Books, by Janice Dixon, 520; Acceptance, by Irene T. Irving, 522; Growing Old, by Lizzie O. B. White, 522; Violets Are for Remembrance, by Carol Mattson, 528; Humble Values, by Alice R. Rich, 557.

Lesson for October
536  Theology — The Vision    Roy W. Doxey
542  Visiting Teacher Message — "Leave Judgment Alone With Me,"
     Christine H. Robinson
544  Work Meeting — Introduction    Winnifred C. Jardine
546  Literature — The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature    Robert K. Thomas
551  Social Science — The Application of Divine Law to Life    Ariel S. Ballif
555  Notes on the Authors of the Lessons

Poetry
481  For a Grandchild — Frontispiece    Dorothy J. Roberts
Our Pioneer Centenarians, by Bertha A. Kleinman, 488; Let Me Remember, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 489; Faith, by Catherine B. Bowles, 493; Night is My Friend, by Lael W. Hill, 498; Alchemy, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 507; Her Letter, by Evelyn Fjelsted, 510; Grandmother's Chair, by Carolle Denton, 517; Prayer, by Nellie B. Schmidt, 543; To My Dear Sisters in Relief Society, by Marion Mallorie, 556; Come and See, by Christie Lund Coles, 557; Potential, by Pearle M. Olsen, 558; Faith's Magic Wand, by Ida Elaine James, 560.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Corporation. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642, Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

--- PAGE 484 (PDF page 508) ---
Victory Over Wilderness

Alberto H. Christensen
Member, General Board of Relief Society

LOOKING westward from my window, I see a wide and beautiful valley. It is peopled and prosperous. Commerce and industry speak through structures of brick and steel, outlined against the sky. There are parks and municipal rose gardens. In full summer lilacs are sycamore, oak, and the flowering hawthorne. Orchard fruit is maturing and the fields beyond are amber with ripening wheat.

And yet, a mere one hundred and seventeen years ago this valley floor was barren waste. Only the gray sage and sand and mountains rimmed the inland sea. What brought these dormant acres into productivity? What wand of magic urged the green blade above the arid loam? Unity of effort wrought this miracle. Men and women whose faith was stronger than sorrow, than hardship, than self-denial, won this victory over wilderness.

"The world owes much to men and women who have felt that God had a work for them to do," writes Dr. J. Leonard Arrington. The Mormon pioneers believed that God had a work for them to do, a pattern to follow. Such belief was basic to their pioneering, underlying all early Mormon settlement of the West. It gave purpose and meaning to an incredible march over hundreds of miles of rough and roadless land; to the dream of establishing a commonwealth in a desert.

Such dedication to conviction led thousands of converts in the Eastern United States to exchange the comforts of their established living, for the uncertainties of pioneer life. It led thousands of converts in Europe to hazard an ocean voyage and life in a faraway and unfamiliar land.

A deep and substantial faith that the Church leadership was

an inspired leadership gave them additional courage, for the pioneer trail did not always end with arrival in the Salt Lake Valley. Many of those early pioneers were counseled by the Church to leave their so newly established homes in the mountain valleys, and to explore and settle other and even more forbidding regions. Almost beyond belief is the pioneering of the San Juan River Basin, and the crossing of the Colorado River through the perilous Hole in the Rock. Only the willing of spirit and the brave of heart would have attempted that pioneering assignment, and only the obedient, the willing and dedicated could have brought it to fulfillment.

THIS belief in the truthfulness of the gospel and in the divinely ordained mission of the Church fortified my own paternal grandmother in the early years of the

Church, as she left home and friends in Blaenyon, Wales, to go to America. She would be traveling with five small sons but without her husband. My grandfather had emigrated months before in order to obtain employment and money to send for the family. The little boys were recovering from whooping cough when the "Dreadnought" left port, and the youngest child, dying en route, was buried in the Atlantic. Yet grandmother did not regret her decision, nor was her faith diminished by the nearly four-month journey by ox team across the plains.

When we speak of pioneering, we often think only of the strong and vigorous men who blazed a path through the wild, unsettled frontier. But to establish the foundation for continuing family and community life, women were also needed, and more than strength of sinew was required.

484                                                        485