[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 891 | PDF Page 930]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 891 (PDF page 930) ---
EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE

"the Lord's appointed prophet," and the Book of Mormon as the "Word of God."

Nevertheless, the Mormon wards and branches are thriving on a weekly schedule that dwarfs the programs of most Protestant and many Roman Catholic churches.

Then I come to the St. Paul Pioneer Press, St. Paul, Minnesota, by Georgann Koelln, May 9, 1964:

Mother's place is in the home, according to the basic tenets of the nation's oldest women's organization, the Women's Relief Society of the Mormon Church. Members of the organization's two St. Paul chapters are doing their best to make the home a more interesting one, and the experience of motherhood a more enriching one.

Now we come to this big paper, the New York Herald Tribune, by Louise Sweeney, July 2, 1964. They start out by saying:

Bach chorales, cranberry relish, and compassion are all part of a program the Mormon church has mapped out for its women.

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (known as the Mormon Church), established a woman's Relief Society one hundred twenty two years ago, and it is still going strong. Just a few days ago, one of its channels, the Mormon Singing Mothers, gave a series of concerts in the Church's World's Fair Pavilion; but it is not all Bach and Brahms in the society. In one of the groups' four weekly meetings each month, members learn how to do everything from baking bread to burping a baby.

Mrs. Belle Spafford, President of the Society for the past twenty years, explains the homemaking sessions. "If I am not interested in baking bread, but I have a little girl who needs a coat lined, there is something there for me." The something may be learning the thread count in a sheet or the cheaper cuts of meat. It may even be a course in world literature,

which is on the agenda for the coming year.

There is just no limit to the society's tie-ins between the art of homemaking and the other arts. An article in the current Relief Society Magazine is titled, "Emily Dickinson: Occupation - Housekeeper." Readers may bridle at describing the concise poet as a housekeeper, but they can't quarrel with the recipe given for Emily Dickinson's gingerbread.

Now I could go on and read. In fact, I had several others here. The Women's Editor of the United Press International, Gay Pauley, wrote a syndicated article which appeared in many of the newspapers, and from which they selected the words for the headlines on the stories, which seemed to carry a general theme, such as: "Mothers Give Pleasure With Music," "Singing Mothers Have Lighter Hearts," "Music Is Good for Women, Good for the Home." The opening statement of her story, and she was quoting Sister Spafford, is: "Singing is good for a woman, good for the home. Women who sing have lighter hearts and happier viewpoints."

I was thrilled to see what a wide coverage the Singing Mothers Concerts were given and how favorably they were reported.

Now, Sister Spafford, as President of the Relief Society, is also making her influence felt in the women's world organizations, where she is being listened to and highly respected by women who are in very important positions.

The executives of these organizations include leading women from all parts of the world, who are beginning to recognize the high standards of Relief Society and the effect it has on its members and on the community as a whole.

887
