[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 522 | PDF Page 546]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 9%]

--- PAGE 522 (PDF page 546) ---
Your Heart to Understanding

Hazel M. Thomson

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a man on horseback, wearing a hat and looking into the distance]

Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, travel across the plains with their own outfit, in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiance dies at Winter Quarters, and still bitter and sorrowing, she refuses to take an interest in Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and later they decide to go to San Bernardino, California, with the saints who plan to settle there. Selena and Lon also are in the company, but are separated for most of the journey after the division of the company. Alfred Quale, who travels with the Blodgetts and Selena, continues an ardent courtship of Selena who appears to enjoy Alfred.

Chapter 6

With the heat and discomforts of desert travel behind them, the Lyman company moved on in the last stages of the journey to California. There were new problems, however. The way was rough, tongues and reaches were broken out of the wagons, and stops had to be made for repairs.

The timber along their route came in handy many times.

The animal stock were greatly weakened by the long, arduous trip, and sometimes as many as twenty oxen were yoked to a wagon to pull it over a particularly steep place. This, of course, slowed the journey. Near the end of the trip Brother Pratt and his missionary group decided to leave the Lyman group and forge on ahead. He rode back bidding goodbye to all with whom he had traveled thus far.

"So you're going on ahead?" Josiah asked, having heard the plan.

"The other missionaries and I are anxious to be on our way. Since there is no particular reason for the rest of you to make great haste now and every reason to give your animals a little time to rest and eat, we are moving on in the morning to the Chino Ranch."

"The Lord bless you, Brother Pratt," said Josiah, shaking the

523
