[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 428 | PDF Page 449]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 428 (PDF page 449) ---
JUNE 1964

Josiah's face as he walked away hurriedly. She knew that Josiah suspected Alfred. She also knew there would not be an easy way to prove it. There had certainly been others besides Alfred who had thought it unnecessary to fill their wagons so full.

After rolling up her bedding, Selena propped a mirror against the spokes in the wagon wheel, removed the pins from her long, dark hair and began brushing it, enjoying the clean feel of it. Just then Josiah returned to camp, Lon beside him.

"I thought it was mighty strange yesterday that he was so all-fired unconcerned about filling his wagon," Josiah was saying. "I think you're wrong, Lon, this time. Seems to me we should let him know we're on to the trick."

"You can't prove it, Josiah," said Lon. "Best thing to do is just let me take this fork and help you fill it up again. There's still some cut that wasn't carried in last night."

Selena looked at Lon, startled. He stood there, strong and handsome, head bared, exactly as she had seen him a long time ago, and he held the fork as he had the shovel, throwing great thuds of earth into an open grave at Winter Quarters.

Now began the most dreadful part of the journey, as the Lyman group moved ahead. This was the stretch from Resting Springs to the Mojave River, leaving the other party to take advantage of the feed and water they were leaving.

"We'll reach Salt Springs first," said Josiah, as the wagon train

moved slowly along under the blistering sun. "Captain Hunt says we'll appreciate the water in our own barrels then, warm and brackish or not."

And now, surprisingly to many, the road began to make a steady climb in the desert country, adding to the burden of both people and animals in the devastating heat. Selena began to feel the stickiness of her clothes. For several days there could be no water used for washing purposes. Every drop must be carefully hoarded to preserve the life of beast and man alike.

The sandy floor of the desert was hot to the touch as they spread out bed covers at night, yet often, before morning came, the cold desert night caused the travelers to welcome a covering. Upon arising, there was no water to be used for washing faces. Selena felt the sand, which arose in a cloud from the movement of so many horses and cattle heavy in her hair under her sunbonnet.

A cheer went up when, at last, the straggly growth of trees marking Salt Springs came into view.

"You will find the water all right to do some washing," said Brother Lyman, riding back along the line. "But drinking it will only add to your thirst. Too much will make you sick, and if the animals are allowed to get to it, they will drink too much and we are certain to lose some of them."

JOSIAH, Belle, and Selena walked together to the spring. It ran clear and looked deceivingly clean and cool.

"It looks all right to me," Belle said, dipping her hand into

428
