[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 543 | PDF Page 567]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 543 (PDF page 567) ---
WORK MEETING   Molding A Happy Life

Winifred C. Jardine

Discussion I—Introduction

(A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches 
at Work Meetings)

For Second Meeting, October 1964

Objective: To decide what happiness is and what some of 
the bases for its achievement may be.

WHAT better study for Latter-day Saint women to engage in, than that concerning the pursuit of happiness? For in their positions as wives, mothers, grandmothers, sisters, and neighbors, it is their charge and obligation to create a climate within the home that will germinate and nurture seeds of happiness.

This achieving happiness is a noble calling, for Lehi in 2 Nephi of The Book of Mormon made the statement so dear to the hearts of the Latter-day Saint people, "Men are that they might have joy." Modern day prophets have reiterated this principle. Joseph Smith said that "happiness is the object and design of our existence." Brigham Young added, "To make ourselves happy is incorporated in the great design of man's existence." John Taylor told the saints of his day that "it is life and the pursuit of happiness' that ought to occupy the attention of all intellectual beings." And President David O. McKay has said, "Happiness is the end and design of life."

Latter-day Saints know that when we were given our bodies and permitted to come to this earth to accept the challenge of life here with its temptations and pitfalls and were given our free agencies to choose between good and evil, we were also given the opportunity to achieve full and unlimited happiness.

This year in our home management discussions we are plotting a course for ourselves and our families that will lead us to that happiness and joy about which the prophets have written.

No person on earth has such an opportunity and yet such a responsibility as does a mother for bringing happiness into a home, for it is through her that a home builds its spirit of happiness. It is from her enthusiasm that the others take their light. Each day as she sends her family out from the home she has the oppor-

544
