[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 374 | PDF Page 391]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 374 (PDF page 391) ---
MAY 1964

enough that we're a few years behind the rush, but they're still making strikes occasionally. And I mean to make one!"

"But I thought you knew," said Josiah. "I thought everyone in the wagon knew that we're not going to look for gold. We're going only to build another settlement to the glory of the Lord."

"You may be," answered Alfred, looking far away toward the blue mountains to the south and west. "Not me. I'm going to build up the glory of Alfred Quayle. And believe me, it's going to be quite a glory!"

Josiah repeated his conversation with Quayle, confirming Belle's fears about the man.

She was remembering Josiah's words of just a few short days ago.

"Why are you so pessimistic, Belle?" he had asked. "Just because you had Lon Holiday all branded and tagged for your sister, you can't see her with anyone else. You'll have to admit Quayle has cheered your sister up considerable. He's quite a joker."

"Oh, he's a joker, all right," Belle had agreed. "He can make Selena laugh, but I don't think he could even make her happy."

"Well, he wouldn't be my choice for Selena, Belle, but you'd better get it through your head that we're not doing the choosing. If she decides on Quayle, reckon we'll just have to welcome him into the family and like it."

"I might have to welcome him into the family, but I don't have to like it," Belle said. "Oh, it makes me so mad that Lon wouldn't even ask to be put in our company!"

"It was a point of honor with him, Belle," Josiah had said. "He felt it was his duty and when Lon Holiday feels something to be his duty, there's nothing or no one going to stop him from doing it."

THE close association Lon was having with Brother Rich became a source of pleasure to him, interspersed with his worries concerning Selena in the company ahead. The apostle had been over the route they were traveling some few years before. He remembered many things of interest which he shared with Lon, as the two of them walked together by the side of Brother Rich's wagon and his six yoke of oxen.

Lon found it impossible to ride comfortably in his own wagon and see some of the sisters walking beside their own teams of oxen, so often he walked as one or another of them drove his horses.

"It's the desert that will really test our strength, Lon," Brother Rich had said. "If we can only get across it with all our people and animals, everything else will work out fine."

Will it? Lon found himself wondering. The days began to drag and he was most impatient to reach Little Salt Lake Valley and the lead company and Selena.

They had been over three weeks on the trail when he heard Brother Rich shout, "There it is! That's Parowan up ahead and the other company."

When they pulled up and stopped for camp, Lon could hardly force himself to take the time to check his ten wagons before he went in search of Josiah's outfit. He hoped he would find Josiah and Belle with just Selena

374
