[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 261 | PDF Page 274]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_04_41_Poem_Child_Young.txt (231 bytes)]

--- PAGE 260 (PDF page 273) ---
APRIL 1964

looked through the toy catalog while the women chattered over the dishes. Afterwards—the young wife took the mother and Miriam to her bedroom. From a bottom drawer she brought out the tiny garments she had made for her expected baby. She lifted them from their tissue-paper wrappings and showed them with something akin to reverence on her freckled face. She might have been an empress displaying her jewels. From the restaurant they could hear the men loudly talking about late model cars and hockey players.

MIRIAM didn't realize it, but she came out of the bedroom with a forlorn face. The young man declared positively, "You need a walk in the snow. Bundle up and we'll take these kids out skiing. They're getting a bit bored with that catalog." The children excitedly ran for their snowsuits. Miriam put on her coat, but wisely laid aside her modish hat and felt boots with their ridiculous high heels. With a woolen scarf on her head, and borrowed overshoes, she felt more comfortable. The children ran outside like caged animals suddenly liberated.

"Yes," the young man said, as they followed them, "an experience like this is good for us. We get down to the essentials and realize just how many of the things we work for and are concerned about are just the trappings of civilization. Doesn't this arouse your pioneer spirit, though?" He trudged through the snow with purposeful strides, and Miriam followed in his tracks. At the edge of the field they caught up to the little girls who were bent over something small and dark on the snow. It was a frozen field mouse.

"Is it dead?" The older girl raised stricken eyes.

"Yes," the young man answered. "It got lost in the storm, I guess."

"Why didn't it stay in its own little home?" asked the little one.

"Why? Probably because it was hungry." They found a sheltered hole by a tree, and covered the mouse over with snow. "There, it's safe now," they told the children.

"Let's go tell Mama about it," one suggested, and the two of them turned back across the field.

"Just a little mouse," mused the young man, "and yet for me it poses all the major questions of life and death. I had a little mouse once, the smallest, ugliest little creature I had ever seen."

As they slowly followed the little girls he told Miriam how he had visited his grandfather's farm when he was a lad of six. They had gone for a walk in the fields one day and had found a mouse nest that had been run over by a hay rake. The mother and all her babies except one were dead. His grandfather wished mercifully to kill the little mouse, for it was less than an inch long, with no hair, only rudimentary ears and eyes — a pink squirming mite was all it was, with a hungry mouth and a pathetic, thread-like tail. He had begged for the mouse for a pet, and for a day he had kept it alive, feeding it warmed milk from an eye dropper, putting it to sleep in a soft little bed. How

260

--- PAGE 261 (PDF page 274) ---
THE STORM

it had thrilled him to hold its tiny vibrant body in his fingers. But it had died and he had been heartbroken. Why he kept asking — why? His grandfather had tried to explain.

"Why? Only God knows. Maybe it was because we didn't know how to care for it. Maybe we fed it too much — maybe we handled it too often. Never mind, lad. It's for the best. Never regret the love you gave the wee mite. It was not wasted, boy, it was not wasted."

It was not wasted. The words warmed Miriam's heart. The peace that had come to her in the night was strengthened now by this wisdom. She saw it clearly now. Her love, even though it had ended in disappointment and heartbreak, and her unhappiness even, were not wasted emotions. For a time they had seemed like last night's storm, unpredictable and destructive, but she knew now they were, instead, a discipline and a preparation for better, more lasting relationships.

She felt as unmarked by bitterness as the snow before them. How foolish to think she could cut herself off from others — how foolish to want to hide. Beside her the young man was muttering, almost to himself, "I hadn't thought about that mouse for years." They walked slowly through the peaceful fields.

About noon the snowplow cleared the highway. It passed in a shower of snow and a wave from the driver's furry gauntlet. The bus driver warmed the motor, and the children skipped ahead. It was with reluctance that the older passengers said goodby to the cafe owner and his wife. At the last minute the young man remembered that he had forgotten his briefcase, and ran back for it. Miriam shared a seat with the young mother; the children swung their legs in the seats ahead. The young man set his briefcase sat across the aisle. They smiled companionably at one another as the bus moved onto the highway.

Enchanted Valley

Sylvia Probst Young

There is a valley where the spring will come,
A quiet place, between the snow-crowned hills,
Where winging birds may find a welcome home,
And wooded lanes will shelter daffodils.

There is a valley where small brooks will glide
Across warm pasture lands, through banks of cress;
And where a plowboy whistles to the sky,
And fresh-turned soil awaits the rain's caress.

There is a valley where the spring will come
Across the waiting fields when April's new,
A quiet valley bounded by God's hills,
And where my heart shall keep a rendezvous.

261

--- PAGE 262 (PDF page 275) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Don Knight

Spring's Impulse

Thelma J. Lund

Where shall I find spring's impulse —
In a hollow of buttercup gold
along the curve of a stream bank
where blades of green unfold?

Here in a woodland meadow
where violet petals stain
the earth and breathe their fragrance
after an April rain?

There in a shallow of water,
the hue of a bluebird's wing,
where a cloud's reflection
floats slowly, rippling?

Or is this elusive impulse
merely a whim of weather
awakened by the soundless
falling of a robin's feather?

242

--- PAGE 263 (PDF page 276) ---
[ILLUSTRATION: Welcome Home cake on a plate]

More Blessed to Receive

Nita Ellis
Penarth, Glamorganshire, South Wales

WELL, you're on your way home, Susan. Glad?" Douglas, big and tow-haired, smiled at his wife, sitting listlessly beside him in the car. He noted, with a pang, that her pretty blue suit fitted her more loosely than it had done six week ago.

"Of course, darling!" She said it quietly — too quietly. And because they had been close to one another for so many years, he understood at once.

"Now, you don't have to take it that hard. It won't hurt you to let others do the jobs you've always done. I've got it all arranged. Mrs. James is to come every day instead of once a week, and we'll have a nice, quiet holiday somewhere."

"I don't want a nice quiet holiday, Doug. I just want to do my own housework, and not watch someone else doing it."

His smile became wry, as though he realized the futility of trying to placate her. He said nothing, his anxious, gray eyes fixed on the dusty road ahead.

I shall never get used to it, she thought, miserably, never. The memory of the hospital surgeon's advice, bluntly matter-of-fact, brought her near to tears.

"You've led a very active life, Mrs. Stratton," he had said, "now you must reorganize things, so that you take it more easily. If you do that, you can expect to have as many more years as most of us. If you don't, this trouble will certainly flare up again, and then. . . ." He had left the sentence unfinished, but his eloquent shrug had left a bleakness in Susan's tired face.

Now, with the car purring its way through the busy town to the outskirts, and the new house

263