[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 737 | PDF Page 772]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 737 (PDF page 772) ---
A SCENIC VIEW OF THE LITERATURE LESSONS

sumed my being. I realized that if I wanted to make these lessons mine, I must do a great deal of individual study.

To my joy, as I got into it, I found that at leadership meeting I could talk with others who were filled with enthusiasm and the desire to communicate, including a well-qualified stake class leader. I discovered that there were lectures I could attend, classes I could take. In my children's old history books were chapters of refresher historical background. Their high-school literature books had interesting comments and questions on the writings. Use of my dictionary gave me fresh understanding of words I had been slipping over for years. Library shelves contained critical essays that revealed to me qualities in the literature I would not have recognized with my limited background. Paperbacks abounded to furnish inexpensive copy and supplements. At lectures and classes I made friends among people who were fulfilling a like calling to my own, and used the telephone to exchange ideas with them. To keep me on the track, there was supplied at the leadership department meeting the outline from the General Board, directing me to the points of greatest value to the sisters, and the General Board instruction that all supplementary material used must support the objective of the lesson. This served as the control in utilizing supplementary material.

As each Magazine came, I familiarized myself with the lesson in that issue, and found that everywhere I turned were quotes from the authors, or articles about them. This started a collection of tear sheets, which included pictures. This supplemented the visual aid kits available to me from the R. S. V. D. At our leadership meeting we all brought our visual aids and evaluated them to be sure we would not use too many.

I was soon so wrapped up in literature that I considered months in advance how I would present each lesson: this one a panel discussion, that one an "interview" with an impersonated author, who would help with the reading of the poems. At another, two or three sisters, with special dramatic ability, could present a skit, which would bring out the salient facts about an author, and dramatize parts of his work. A song would present itself to my notice, perhaps in the middle of the night, that would be just right to begin the lesson, or more often to close it.

I set up little private objectives of my own, such as imparting to others the keen joy and satisfaction I found in delving into the hearts and minds of the articulate people of other times and places. Or to help the mothers to encourage their children to develop a love of reading and a discrimination in reading matter. Or, again, I could see where a certain sister might derive help for her problems by preparing a certain bit of inspiring material.

As I prepared each lesson, I went back to the Magazine, and reread it time after time, and found that each reading brought renewed understanding and discovery of richness and meaning I had missed before. Joy I was

737
