[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 425 | PDF Page 446]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 425 (PDF page 446) ---
Your Heart to Understanding

CHAPTER 5
Hazel M. Thomson

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a person sitting and reading or writing]

Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, travel across the plains with their own outfit in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiancé died at Winter Quarters, and still bitter and sorrowing, she refuses to take an interest in Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and, later, they decided to go to San Bernardino, California, with saints who plan to settle there. Selena and Lon also leave with the company for California, but when a division of the company is made, Lon and Selena are separated. Alfred Quale, also on his way to California, begins his courtship of the lovely Selena.

THERE were days at a time now when the cemetery at Winter Quarters and the happenings there seemed very far away to Selena. She was enjoying the companionship of her new friend, Alfred Quale. He was so good-natured and cheerful that her despondency seemed to lessen with the passing of each day.

Too, some of Belle's enthusiasm may have rubbed off on Selena. Belle had never been happier. When they arrived at Resting Springs they did just that: they drank from the spring, filled every available water container, and rested. The feed was plentiful, and the leaders decided to give the animals a few days' rest.

"It's an oasis," Josiah said, looking at the luxuriant growth of grass. "Plenty of feed and plenty of water. Still, it makes me a little uneasy."

"For goodness sakes, Josiah, why? Can't you just take advantage of the chance to rest a few days without dreaming up something to worry about?"

"I'm not dreaming, Belle," he answered. "The leaders aren't dreaming either. They feel it necessary that we wait up here, until the other company arrives. We have been traveling so slowly that Brother Rich and his group can't be more than a few days back."

425
