[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 115 | PDF Page 120]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 115 (PDF page 120) ---
attracted to one perfect person. Valentine's day was for us a day of affirmation. It was a day that made us feel important and worthwhile because we meant something special to somebody who mattered.

But now, my dear husband, we have put away childish things. We still are made happy by the affection and regard of all of our acquaintances and friends. We still need assurance that the people we care for care for us. But now there is something richer, deeper, more mystic, more mysterious. There is love.

No one can really define love. We can describe its symptoms, but we can't explain it. We know what it isn't, but we can't know fully what it is. Where words end, love begins. How lucky we are, you and I, that we can feel the things we cannot speak. How very lucky I am that I can feel love for you and know deep inside myself that you feel love for me.

Where is love born? "Deep in unfathomable depths." But once the seed of love was planted deep it was nurtured by shared joy and shared disappointment, by shared successes and shared failures. People must laugh together, and cry together, too, to bring love to bloom. These we have done. The babies we lost brought us together in sorrow, the daughters we have reared have bonded us in joy. And in sorrow or joy we have felt the spirit of each other and have said, "We thank thee, God, that our union is eternal."

More poets have written about love than any other subject, yet what have they said? They have agreed that it is the mystery of life, the surge and swell of the heart that makes living in this world an ecstacy. "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. . . ."

And so, even on Valentine's day I can't tell you what you mean to me, how my heart lifts when you come home, how things in the world have new vitality because we are together.

I can only plead in the most ordinary way, "Be my Valentine."

115
