[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 358 | PDF Page 375]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 99% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 358 (PDF page 375) ---
A Letter from Grandma

Violet Nimmo

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of an open letter with handwritten text]

A letter from Grandma was a great inspiration in our home. I was one of five children who had no Grandpas and only one Grandma. She was very special to us.

We looked forward to receiving her letters with great anticipation. Each word was written with charity and love.

Mother always placed the letter upon the bookcase to be read after dinner while the whole family was seated around our old-fashioned round table. We were so excited we could hardly wait until dinner was over. Grace was said hurriedly, and I don't think any of us ate our usual portions of food.

I can visualize five exuberant children all chattering at once, until mother started to open the envelope; then we all quieted down until you could hear the clock tick.

We sat in silence, each child waiting to hear the personal message the letter held for him or her.

Grandma always remembered to mention things which were important to us.

My heart always beat a little faster when Grandma asked, "How is my little Violet? Is she still working on the 'Poet and Peasant' overture? I'll be looking forward to hearing her play the piano when you come to visit next summer." Or perhaps she would say, "I am so pleased to hear that Violet is such a good little mother's helper."

In one letter she said, "I suppose you children are all busy helping your mother and father pick strawberries."

The next day we picked strawberries all day without any complaints or grumbles. We strove to live up to Grandma's praise and belief in us. About the time our inspired ambition began to diminish, there would be another letter from Grandma, and we would be back to our best behavior for another while.

Through Grandma's letters we were aware of every lovely thing which God created for us to enjoy. The first robin in spring, the violets and pussy willows along the river bank; orioles, marigolds, and fleecy white clouds in summer; wild geese; pumpkins, corn shocks, and colorful maple trees in autumn, snowbirds, icicles and Christmas trees in winter. We had pointed out to us and appreciated and enjoyed the things in life that are free.

Sometimes Grandma would tell us about something cute or mischievous that "Rembrandt" her cat had done, or she would tell us how fat the "precocious pig" was growing. The "precocious pig" was the piggy bank in which she saved pennies to spend on us when we went to visit her.

She always enclosed a beautiful prayer at the close of each letter.

Grandma is in heaven now. I still say the prayers she taught us. I have taught them to my children, along with many of her beautiful thoughts.

I cherish the memories of Grandma's letters and reflect their charitable contents with great nostalgia.

Please, may I contribute as much Christian spirit and love for wholesome, unselfish living as did our dear Grandma.

358
