[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 667 | PDF Page 698]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 667 (PDF page 698) ---
Woman's
Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

NURSES, both registered and practical, are greatly needed in the United States and in other countries. The modern nurse must lead as well as perform, and supervising nurses are in great demand, according to Dr. Eleanor Lambertsen, chairman of the department of nursing at Columbia University Teacher's College. "A nurse must be able to move efficiently from situation to situation. Professional nurses today frequently find themselves moving away from the bedside to fill administrative roles."

ELAINE B. EVANS, of Berkeley, California, is the sculptor of the impressive life-size statue of Adam and Eve which is receiving much favorable comment from visitors to the Mormon Pavilion at the New York World's Fair.

BLANCA ESTRELLA de MESCOLI is a Venezuelan composer who is winning prizes for her works, especially some lovely tone poems for which she composed both words and music.

HARRIET ROTHSTEIN is a rising young pianist, who at the age of nine, won in an original-composition competition sponsored by the Philadelphia Orchestra, which also performed her work. She has given concerts in numerous American cities and in several foreign countries.

MRS. MARIA GOEPPERT MAYER, fifty-seven, La Jolla, California, won the distinguished Nobel Prize in Physics, sharing the honor with a male colleague. Mrs. Mayer is regarded by many as "the greatest woman scientist in the world," as she is the only woman besides the great Marie Curie to win the Nobel Prize in Physics. Her research in atomic physics has given her the title "The Marie Curie of the Atom." She is known as a devoted mother and homemaker and was accompanied to Stockholm, Sweden, to receive her award by her husband, Joseph Mayer.

MARYHALE WOOLSEY, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has been given the silver medal award by the Commonwealth Society of California for her juvenile book The Keys and the Candle (Abingdon Press), a story of a young boy's service in an early translation of the Bible into English. The book was rated as the best in the juvenile field published by a resident of California in 1963.

FEDORA ALEMAN is a Venezuelan soprano of much beauty and graciousness as well as talent. She sings in the United States, Europe, especially in Paris, and in South America. She frequently appears in programs consisting entirely of Venezuelan music, making one such appearance in Carnegie Hall.

667
