[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 371 | PDF Page 388]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 371 (PDF page 388) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

Belle looked at Lon in amazement.

"I can't understand you, Lon Holiday, to take such an attitude in this. I guess I've been wrong from the start. I thought you were in love with Selena."

"I am in love with her, Belle, and that's the very reason I can't take advantage of her unhappiness and ask her to marry me when she's in such a state of indecision about everything."

"I'll get down now, if you please," Belle said. "Sorry to have bothered you, Lon."

"Belle," pleaded Lon, as he drew the horses to a halt, "please don't misunderstand me. You know what Selena means to me."

"I know that if this Alfred keeps coming around, and she decides to marry him it will be your fault," said Belle as she jumped to the ground and headed for her own wagon.

AFTER the meeting at which the final organization for travel was worked out, everyone being notified as to whether they were to be in Brother Lyman's group or the remaining half of the wagons which Brother Rich would lead, there was a party of good will held for the travelers.

When the dancing began there was Alfred, just as Belle had feared, offering his arm to Selena. Where was Lon? Belle wondered. He had been right there by Josiah just a moment ago.

As Selena accepted the invitation and moved onto the rough-hewn boards that served as a floor in this building used both for recreation and worship, Belle looked up at Josiah. Their eyes met, and Josiah knew immediately what was worrying his wife.

"You heard them make him captain of ten again for the trip. He said he had to go check the wagons under his command while he is still here where there is an anvil and forge if they are needed."

"Selena dancing with that Alfred, and Lon out checking wagon wheels! Well, I don't know why I should worry if he refuses to!"

THE trip at first had been taken leisurely, traveling through the settlements, but the visiting for a night with friends was coming to an end. Lon, never really enthusiastic about leaving the Great Salt Lake Valley, felt again a wave of uneasiness as he listened to the words of Brother Rich.

"The company is too large to travel together," he said. "In order to prevent drawing too heavily on the desert springs at any one time, there must be some little distance between the first and second sections of the group. However, we will have places of meeting along the way. When the first section reaches Parowan, it is to wait for the other to arrive. Further plans will be made then for crossing the desert."

The assignments had already been made, but the names were read again in order to have no misunderstandings. Lon knew he would be traveling with Brother Rich, while Josiah was included in Brother Lyman's group.

The long meeting was drawing to its close, and there was still no sign of President Young. Then Brother Pratt, who evidently had

371
