[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 836 | PDF Page 875]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 836 (PDF page 875) ---
Colorful
Felt Pictures

June F. Krambule

FOR making an unusual and decorative picture, Mrs. John Fishburn of Ogden, Utah, took two pieces of plyboard, one-half yard of burlap, a few feet of screendoor beading, and several small squares of felt, put them together, and the colorful result was a pair of pictures that are something to crow about. The pictures represent weathervane roosters, made for the budget price of about $1.55 and designed to accent the Fishburn's early-American multi-purpose room.

Mrs. Fishburn details the project this way: First secure two 11" by 16" (or any other desired size) pieces of plyboard and burlap. The burlap is stretched tightly across the front of the plyboard and glued securely to the back. The mitered corners may need to be tacked.

Next, select in dimensions needed for the size and number of pictures you are making, about six squares of felt found in most department and fabric stores. These should include black felt for the weathervane, red or orange for the rooster's comb, and a variety of yellow, green, and brown shades that blend together. These, of course, may be varied to suit your own decorating color scheme.

To trace the patterns directly from the design given here, would make a very small rooster. However, it is not a difficult process, using this design as a guide, to outline and make your own pattern of each separate piece, keeping in mind the proportions represented in the illustration. Each separate piece of the pattern, when outlined to your satisfaction, can then be traced on a fairly heavy paper. When each piece is numbered correctly, the patterns are ready to be transferred to the felt for the cutting process.

Pin the pattern securely on the felt and cut out the felt accordingly with very sharp scissors. Glue the felt pieces to the burlap in the order numbered. Dotted lines indicate sections of the pattern covered by pieces placed on later. Letters suggest the colors that may be used, and the numbers indicate the sequence in which the pieces of felt are glued on the burlap.

Narrow screendoor beading which may be found at almost any building supply store is carefully glued or tacked in place, two inches in from the edge, to give a framing effect.

Good luck with your roosters. Cut carefully, glue neatly, and your friends will crow about your pictures, too.

836
