[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 281 | PDF Page 294]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_04_18_Poem_Desert_Jacobson.txt (430 bytes)]

--- PAGE 280 (PDF page 293) ---
APRIL 1964

ever you want to see her," he said kindly.

She nodded and murmured a thank you, but she knew in her heart that she wouldn't go. Perhaps, given time, she would be able to forget what she looked like. No . . . she would not go see her. The less she had to do with the baby the better for her. She wouldn't get attached to her.

Night passed in drugged, fitful slumber, awakening to awareness and willing herself back into oblivion . . . blessed oblivion . . . peaceful . . . unthinking . . . uncomplicated oblivion. But with the coming of day her period of respite ended.

"Do you want the news of your baby's birth published in the newspapers?" an impersonal nurse inquired, her pencil poised.

Clara looked up in surprise. They had never asked her that before. Were they so sure it wouldn't live? What would she tell the children? . . . They had waited so long with the little bed so carefully made up. How did you tell them there was no baby to put in it . . . ?

"You don't have to if you don't want to," the nurse avoided her eyes as she prodded her toward a decision.

She thinks I'm ashamed of my baby, the mother suddenly realized with a deep sense of shame. But was being a coward a better virtue? How selfish she had been. She should have been thinking of her husband and children and trying to make the situation more bearable for them, but she had made herself the biggest problem.

o . . . Her first concern should have been for the tiny baby down in the nursery whom she had been so deliberately ignoring. She felt a sudden sense of release. It had never occurred to her not to acknowledge the birth of the baby.

"Of course I want it published," she replied firmly, and the poised pencil made its mark and left. She thought of the tiny girl down the hall. If she, her own mother, wouldn't claim and love her, who would? She had the right, perfect or not, to be loved and cared for by her mother whether she lived one day, one week, or whatever time she had.

Clara looked up as the doctor entered the room followed by a nurse carrying her baby. She had seen the baby only the once since it was born and now, as she looked into her small face and laid a gentle finger against the softest cheek she had ever touched, her heart ached with love and compassion.

"May I hold her?"

The nurse, after a nod from the doctor, handed her the baby. Her cheeks flushed with shame as she realized that they, too, had misunderstood her cowardice. She looked into the small closed-up face, and wondered how long . . . today . . . tomorrow . . . one week . . . it didn't matter . . . this was her baby. If she just lives two weeks, then I'll be sure, she made herself the vain promise.

"She seems to be in good order internally," the doctor volunteered encouragingly.

280

--- PAGE 281 (PDF page 294) ---
PLEASE, NOT THIS ONE

The mother's eyes left the baby face and looked up into his searchingly. Here was more than she had dared hope for. She clutched the pink bundle against her, pressing her cheek to the face of the sleeping infant. Tears slid down her cheeks, and in spite of herself, she sobbed. She felt the baby taken from her and firm hands put her to bed. A capsule was pressed into her hand. She cried steadily until the drugged pillow that softens all emotions put her to sleep.

That evening Clara looked down at the dark head pillowed on her arm. The satin cheeks were dimpling rhythmically as the baby nursed. Her small fingers closed around Clara's thumb. With a gentle hand she stirred the tight, dark curls. Placing her daughter against her shoulder, she patted the tiny back. Through the blanket she could feel the row of safety pins holding a binder securely around the small body. She smiled as she felt the soft brush of warm breath . . . that precious breath

of life . . . and her heart filled with gratitude for having her to hold one more day.

Suddenly she saw beyond the physical imperfection of her baby and knew what it was that must be learned. She held the baby from her and looked at her intently.

Her thoughts turned to her other children. She didn't love any one of them, more or less, according to his physical condition. The spirit within shaped them and made them who and what they were.

How could she have been so blind? First about little Janet and then her own baby. Now she could understand her mother's stubborn devotion to Janet's care. She, with greater wisdom, had seen beyond that tortured little body and loved the precious, innocent soul that was held captive within.

Gathering her daughter into her arms, carefully so as not to awaken her, Clara held her close to her heart and reached for the telephone.

Desert in Springtime

Ethel Jacobson

Here are dusty creek beds,
    Stones, and burning sand,
But spring comes tripping bravely
    To this forbidding land.
Seeds lie quiet, waiting
    The fleeting kiss of rain,
Then magically blossom
    To carpet dune and plain.
Poppy, mariposa,
    Verbena, lupine, broom —
No one knows spring truly
    Till he sees the desert bloom!

281

--- PAGE 282 (PDF page 295) ---
His
Forgiving
Way

Viola Ashton Candland

. . . and when they were come to the place, which
is called Calvary, there they crucified him . . . (Luke 23:33).

How callously they nailed him to the cross,
Quite unaware this dreadful, dreadful deed
Was prophecy fulfilled, believing loss
Of life would mean the end of him. No seed
Of blame could root in Christ, where true love grew
To bear its fruits upon the cross and plead,
"Forgive them for they know not what they do,"
And stand as an example and a creed.

The nails — the cross — the thorny crown — the scorn
Intended in the sign for all to read —
Unto this very hour he was born,
Redeemer of the world, a King indeed;

And agony and blood could not erase
The mark of godhood printed on his face.

* * *

A callous world still nails him to the cross
With spikes of unbelief and hate and greed;
And frivolous, indifferent hands still toss
Away his gift of love as if the need
For it did not exist. The precious words
That tell how Jesus came to earth to bleed
And die that man might live, are wasted chords
In cynics' ears and hearts that will not heed.

Ah, world, which largely, yet, profanes his name,
How long before repentant hearts will plead
For that same love which once was put to shame,
And pray that he, again, will intercede,

And know that he looks down at us today
In that same sorrowing, forgiving way?

282

--- PAGE 283 (PDF page 296) ---
Be Yourself

Betty G. Spencer

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a sitting cat with black and white markings, appearing to be meowing or calling out]

THERE," sighed Laura with relief, as she deftly polished the last bit of nickel on the big "Home Comfort" range. Her stepmother's kitchen was well kept and tidy. Aunt Em took pride in a neat house, and she and Laura had taken particular pains to see that everything was just right today.

Reluctant to finish the task, Laura brushed the cloth across the warming oven until she could see her face in the polished metal. Plain, she thought, just plain. Her thin face looked a bit pale below the heavy coronet formed by her light brown braids. "If time would just stand still for a few hours," she said to herself. But she knew it wouldn't. She would have to face it, there was just no other way.

This was the morning Brother William Barker was coming to watch her set a batch of bread. She had heard of young women having to do strange things to get a husband, but Brother William's request did beat all.

Papa had scolded her before he left for the fields this morning.

"Brother William has my permission to call," Papa reminded her, "and besides, Laura," he had chided, "it's about time you began thinking of marrying. You'll never find a better catch, and Brother William is a fine, upstanding young man."

That settled things as far as Papa was concerned, and Laura didn't know but what he was right.

The Thomas clock chimed the half-hour. Aunt Em looked up anxiously from the worktable as she placed prints of newly churned butter in an earthen crock.

"Laura, dear," she urged, "you'd best hurry."

Nervously, Laura put away her cleaning cloth as the rusty hinge

283