[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 263 | PDF Page 276]
[Title: Tiny file: V51_04_09_Fict_The_Spencer.txt (291 bytes)]

--- PAGE 262 (PDF page 275) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Don Knight

Spring's Impulse

Thelma J. Lund

Where shall I find spring's impulse —
In a hollow of buttercup gold
along the curve of a stream bank
where blades of green unfold?

Here in a woodland meadow
where violet petals stain
the earth and breathe their fragrance
after an April rain?

There in a shallow of water,
the hue of a bluebird's wing,
where a cloud's reflection
floats slowly, rippling?

Or is this elusive impulse
merely a whim of weather
awakened by the soundless
falling of a robin's feather?

242

--- PAGE 263 (PDF page 276) ---
[ILLUSTRATION: Welcome Home cake on a plate]

More Blessed to Receive

Nita Ellis
Penarth, Glamorganshire, South Wales

WELL, you're on your way home, Susan. Glad?" Douglas, big and tow-haired, smiled at his wife, sitting listlessly beside him in the car. He noted, with a pang, that her pretty blue suit fitted her more loosely than it had done six week ago.

"Of course, darling!" She said it quietly — too quietly. And because they had been close to one another for so many years, he understood at once.

"Now, you don't have to take it that hard. It won't hurt you to let others do the jobs you've always done. I've got it all arranged. Mrs. James is to come every day instead of once a week, and we'll have a nice, quiet holiday somewhere."

"I don't want a nice quiet holiday, Doug. I just want to do my own housework, and not watch someone else doing it."

His smile became wry, as though he realized the futility of trying to placate her. He said nothing, his anxious, gray eyes fixed on the dusty road ahead.

I shall never get used to it, she thought, miserably, never. The memory of the hospital surgeon's advice, bluntly matter-of-fact, brought her near to tears.

"You've led a very active life, Mrs. Stratton," he had said, "now you must reorganize things, so that you take it more easily. If you do that, you can expect to have as many more years as most of us. If you don't, this trouble will certainly flare up again, and then. . . ." He had left the sentence unfinished, but his eloquent shrug had left a bleakness in Susan's tired face.

Now, with the car purring its way through the busy town to the outskirts, and the new house

263

--- PAGE 264 (PDF page 277) ---
APRIL 1964

to which they had moved only a short time before Susan's illness, she gathered the last twenty-five years together in her thoughts, all of them busy, vital, active. She had taken so much more in her stride besides marriage and family. The many varied Church interests, her garden, the flower arrangement classes that had grown into a local society, the old people who had come to rely on her visits in times of bad weather — the list was endless. And now. . . .

She watched the fields, green with summer, and tall trees that curtseyed in the warm breeze against the blue softness of the sky, but her mind was shut against the beauty of the tender afternoon. Lulled by the heat, she dozed, drooping a little against her husband's shoulder, her dark hair spraying into curves across her damp brow.

THE sound of a familiar bark startled her, and she opened her eyes to see Wilkie leaping down the path, in an ecstatic flurry of doggy welcome. She was home! The rose-red brick house was sun-mellowed, its windows sparkling. Cathy, looking fresh and pretty, in a white linen frock, was standing at the gate, with one-year-old Peter in her arms. "Lovely to have you back, Mum," she called, as happily, as Douglas helped his wife carefully from the car.

Susan's face lighted up as she encircled her daughter's slim waist, and stroked Wilkie's madly bobbing head. She savored the warm velvet of her grandson's tiny head against her cheek for a long moment before stepping

into the coolness of the hall. It smelled of polish and was brilliant with flowers. In the big living room the table was laid with her best china, bowls of fruit and jellies colorful against her gossamer lace cloth. In the place of honor stood a large iced cake, with "Welcome Home" written on it.

"Everyone's been so good," Cathy told her. "Mrs. Elliott brought the cake this morning. From the Relief Society, with love, she said. And those flowers in the hall were sent, already fixed in the containers, from the Arrangement Society."

That really was thoughtful. What a lot of work went into those kindnesses. The ready tears threatened again, as Susan leaned back in the comfortable chair, trying to overcome them.

"Your father says that you have managed splendidly, Cathy," she said, at last.

"Of course, Mum. I brought Peter with me, and Mrs. James kept an eye on him, while I did the shopping and cooking. I was always home in time to collect the twins from school and fix Tom's meal. He sends his love — coming over tomorrow."

SUSAN felt as though the relationship between them had been reversed. She had always thought that Cathy needed help, with an old-fashioned house, a lively baby, and twins only just five. But the young woman who spoke so confidently, had a brisk capable air that disconcerted her.

"I don't know what we should have done without you," Susan admitted. Cathy's answering smile was a serene acceptance of

264

--- PAGE 265 (PDF page 278) ---
MORE BLESSED TO RECEIVE

her own capabilities, instead of the glow of a girl paid an unexpected compliment.

Through the window, Susan could see the flower beds, still bare, framing the new lawn. No one had touched the garden, she thought. I don't think I could have borne it, if they'd done that job for me. Conscious of the silence, she said, stubbornly, "I'd planned to do everything myself—the rose circle — rockery — all of it. There's no satisfaction like working on new ground with your own hands."

"Don't worry, dear, we'll see to it," her husband promised, cheerfully, but she shook her head.

Douglas had done all the hardest preparation in their former garden, but he hadn't the feeling for growing things, as Susan had. It had never mattered that he had brains but no skill with his hands, as that plot of earth had been all hers, and she was proud of her green fingers.

"It wouldn't be the same," she replied, gently.

The tiny, awkward pause was broken by the sound of a gate slamming, feet skidding over the shining floor, and her son hurtling through the room.

"Lo, Mum." He gave her a brief, rough hug, thrusting a posy of tight, pink rosebuds into her hands. "Gosh, I'm glad you're back! What we got to eat?" He registered approval of the loaded table with a grinning "Wow! Get a load of that cake!"

THE tension was eased, and Susan ran fond blue eyes over the sturdy rosy-cheeked figure in the slightly faded jeans. He had not been allowed to visit her in the hospital because he was only ten and she had missed him.

"Thanks, Kenny," she said, lifting the blooms, and inhaling their perfume. "They're lovely."

"Thought they'd go into old Noddy's cart." Kenny began to set chairs around the table. "Seeing you got no flowers growing yet."

"Go and wash your hands, son." Douglas spoke sharply, and Kenny stared at him.

"Take it Noddy with you," suggested his mother. "Run a little water in, and you can arrange them for me." She turned to the recess where the little donkey and cart, modeled out of cream and brown pottery usually stood.

"I put it away, Mum," explained Cathy. "In the hall cupboard, Kenny — back of the top shelf. I wasn't having it broken while I was in charge," she went on, "I put your favorite ornament out of Pete's way."

It was a happy meal. Kenny kept them laughing, and baby Peter, bolstered by cushions, lolled contentedly, at his grannie's side. Douglas touched his wife's fingers, as she passed plates, and the small, sweet contact eased the pain of knowing that he would never completely understand how she felt about the surgeon's verdict.

LONG after Douglas was asleep that night, Susan lay, watching the sparkle of moonlight netted in the branches outlined against her window. Her body was taut and unrelaxed, while mentally, she took up, one by one, thoughts of the future. To be still was only to be half alive. Oh, yes, she

265