[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 886 | PDF Page 925]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 886 (PDF page 925) ---
From Near and Far

Thank you for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine you are sending me. I appreciate them so much. I like the stories and pictures, and, more than that, I love the love that you are showing to me. I have nothing to give to you but a heart filled with love. I want to tell you I love you all, and I pray that the Lord will bless you always.

Yuan Chang Ping Chi
Kaohsiung
Taiwan, China

The Magazine means so much to me, since I am living away from home, that I want it to be also in the homes of my dear friends, even though they are not members of the Church. I especially enjoyed the serial "Your Heart to Understanding," by Hazel M. Thomson. I worked on a Primary stake board with this dear sister many years ago. She is a very wonderful person.

Mrs. Eva Kohkonen
Helsinki, Finland

I have just read the first chapter of "The Turn of the Wheel," by Mabel Harmer (October 1964). I must say I did enjoy it. Having been there (in Heidelberg, Germany) myself, I relived the wonderful experiences I had in that beautiful city. Her description of the place is great. While I was in Germany I served in the Relief Society presidency.

Mary Stevenson
Salt Lake City, Utah

Many thanks for The Relief Society Magazine. I enjoy it so much, and the stories and inspiring messages I read to my friends who are not members of our Church. The wonderful sisters in this branch of Relief Society work in close harmony. It is good to know that we have sisters in many lands.

Marion Hanna
Portadown, Armagh
Northern Ireland

I am most grateful to my faithful Magazine representative Maudene South, from the Ogden Fifty-third Ward who made it possible for the Magazine to follow me to Tahiti, where I am with my husband who is a Church building supervisor. Every article in the Magazine is of a character-building quality. It also gives us ideas of things to do. I am busy gathering and pressing lovely Tahitian flowers to make parchment correspondence cards as illustrated in the June 1964 issue and described by Peggy Tangren.

Alice Spencer
Papeete, Tahiti

I have been taking The Relief Society Magazine for thirty-five years, and I would be lost without it. The pictures are so beautiful that I cut out many of them and put them in my Book of Remembrance.

Percilla Lundeen
El Monte, California

I am writing to tell you of my deepest gratitude for The Relief Society Magazine, and the wonderful encouragement it brings to the Relief Society sisters here in Tripoli. There are times when our spirits are so low, and we feel almost forgotten being so far away from home, friends, and the Church. But the Magazine helps to bring us closer together, both spiritually and mentally through the inspired lessons and reading material. The Relief Society organization here is very active, strong, and closely knit. We have come to know the true meaning of sisterhood and love that only unselfish service to our fellow men and our Heavenly Father can bring. The articles on home management, child psychology, and how to be a better mother and wife are especially timely. It is articles such as these that make our hearts sing. They are appreciated even here in Tripoli, North Africa!

Mrs. Joyce H. Davis
Tripoli, North Africa

882
