[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 94 | PDF Page 95]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 94 (PDF page 95) ---
IN MEMORIAM
President
Levi Edgar Young
of the First Council of Seventy
February 2, 1874 — December 13, 1963

[PHOTOGRAPH]

PRESIDENT Levi Edgar Young, senior President of the First Council of Seventy, died December 13, 1963. Well loved and much respected, President Young had been a member of the Council since 1910, carrying forward a legacy of service received from his faithful forebears. Both his father, Seymour B. Young, a noted physician, and his grandfather, Joseph Young, a brother of President Brigham Young, served to be senior presidents of the First Council of Seventy.

Throughout his life President Young was devoted to scholarship and education. He was graduated from the University of Utah in 1895, and immediately began a teaching career that continued, alternately with mission calls, for most of his life. He served as professor of English at the Latter-day Saints University in Salt Lake City, and later, while attending Harvard University, he became deeply interested in history and was a noted scholar and authority, particularly in the field of western history. He taught history at the University of Utah for forty years. He was president of the Utah State Historical Society for many years, and in recognition of his contributions to research, and writing and teaching of history, he was given the signal honor of membership in the Royal Society of Edinburgh, a distinction usually reserved for natural scientists.

He labored as a missionary in Germany, and in 1902 was named President of the Swiss Mission, becoming one of the youngest mission presidents to serve in the Church. From 1922 to 1934 he was President of the Temple Square Mission and for three years he presided over the New England Mission.

The General Board and members of Relief Society in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend sympathy and sisterly love to President Young's family — his wife Valeria Brinton Young, and his three daughters: Harriet Y. Kline, Jane Y. Rawson, and Eleanor Y. Van Orden, and to the grandchildren and other relatives and friends. President Young has left a resplendent heritage of faith and good works to his family and to the Church.

90
