LESSON IV.
Home Economics. Fourth Week in April.
THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME.
THE BUSINESS SIDE OF HOUSEKEEPING.
Gem: Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways and be wise: she provideth her meat in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest. Prov. 6:6, 7-8.
Outline:
1. The Question Involved.
2. Woman's Chief Difficulty.
3. An Example.
4. The Family Income. a. Who provides it. b. Who spends it. c. Woman's share in the business of the Home.
5. The Budget.
6. Two Objections Answered.
7. The Experimental Budget. a. How It can be Made Accurate.
8. Information to be Gained from Records.
9. Benefits to the Family from the Budget System of Living.
A question we frequently hear discussed is: "Should the finances of the home be managed in a business-like way?" This is the problem of the day and its final solution will come, not from the professional writer, but through efforts of the housekeeper. The hardest work many women have to do is to take care of their families and keep them happy and comfortable with the amount of money which comes to them for this purpose. Life is a constant struggle to make ends meet. A woman spends for what seems necessary as occasion occurs, but when spring and fall come and clothing for the family must be purchased, or when some expensive piece of equipment must be bought for the home, she never knows whether there will be enough money to pay meat and grocery bills or not. She is always worried about finances and never sure just what she should afford.
One such woman tells how she escaped from this bondage. For the first few years of her housekeeping Mrs. X worried along with ends never meeting, always suffering from the terrible feeling that she was spending too much but not knowing just how or where. They bought a home, feeling it was cheaper to buy than to rent and found that the house was a high-priced luxury, that it was too large and too difficult to care for with their income. But she says, "We found this out after we bought." She employed help; found she could not afford it after she tried it for a time. She bought what she felt was needed for the table and found herself always behind in her bills. She did not know till the end of the month that she was spending too much. After two or three years of this she decided there must be some better way to manage. She tried planning ahead. First, she set down on a piece of paper the big things she knew must be paid?the payments on the house, taxes, insurance, etc. Then she divided what was left among other expenses as best she could. It did not all come out right at first, but after a time she worked out a system which did come out satisfactory and leave her a little over. She says this learning to plan ahead for her spending, and thus being able to live within their income, did more for their happiness than if a relative had left them a fortune. She learned what we must all acknowledge to be true?that the home, while it must be many other things, should also be a business organisation. Husband and wife are partners, and as fast as the children grow old enough to understand, they should be taken into the firm as junior partners. All should understand how much money, or its equivalent, there is for the running of the business of the home and all should be equally interested in seeing that this money, or its equivalent, is wisely used?used so as to bring the greatest good to each and every one of the family.
In most families the man provides the income and the wife does most of the spending. For she spends for the whole family, not just for herself. Thus it comes about that the spending for the home and family is woman's share in the business side of homemaking. Most women are willing to acknowledge that the above fact is true, but all do not agree in what is equally true?that in order to spend wisely and to the best advantage some systematic method of planning ahead must be evolved. The business term used for a written statement of income for the year and the plan of spending that income for the various expenses to be incurred during the year is called a Budget. A budget for the home then is a table of expenses or a written statement of the income and of the divisions of this income into separate amounts, each of which is to be used for some one class of expenditures. That is, after finding out the income and writing that down, the housekeeper decides how much is needed for food, how much for clothing, and how much for each of the several items into which she divides her home expenses. So when we speak of planning some systematic method of handling the household expenses, we really mean that some kind of a budget or table of expenses should be planned, written out, and strictly lived up to.
The first objection the busy woman will make to this suggestion is that she has not time for it. Women who have tried this plan all say it saves far more time than it takes. Another objection is that such a plan can be carried out only in a family on a salary. The experience of many women whose husbands are business men or farmers show that this budget plan of spending can be carried out successfully on an irregular income. The budget for the first year it is tried must be experimental, and may not come out as planned; but if one watches it carefully and sees where it was wrong she can plan more accurately for the next year. An exact account of everything spent and everything which comes in must be kept. It is this careful keeping track of all money or its equivalent coming in which is the essential part of the work when the income is irregular. The accounts and budget for the first year give something more definite on which to base the second year's plans. Every year this plan is continued helps one to plan more accurately for the coming year. If there comes a year when one must, for some reason, live more economically she can survey her budget and see where the saving can best be made. Or as the family income increases so as to give her more to spend, she can systematically distribute and increase.
After using the budget system for a few years the account book will be found to be a storehouse of information to assist in planning for the future. If one wishes to give a party and wishes to know whether it can be afforded or not, she turns easily to the page of a previous party and finds there every item of expense connected therewith, and at the bottom of the page a summary showing each detail of expense and the cost per person of the number entertained. From this can be easily and closely estimated the cost of entertaining a larger or smaller number, or the additional cost of introducing more expensive features in menu or entertainment. Of even more value will be found the record of exact quantities used for a given number, with the marginal note as to any excess or deficiency.
Can the family afford to take a camping trip? From previous years' records will be found the cost of former trips and the amount saved on ordinary running expenses, giving the net cost of this recreation, which is often found to be extremely low.
Can a trip to California be afforded? The writer from previous records estimated a recent trip to California at $151 and provided that amount in her budget. The total cost of the trip was $151.50. A friend, without previous records, planned a similar trip which was to be made on $100. The trip was made. Two hundred dollars was necessary. The family finances were seriously crippled for the year.
Examples could be multiplied indefinitely showing the reliance which can be placed on the records of the past. The records are not necessarily your own. Women of today exchange recipes; women in the future may exchange estimates.
The budget system of managing brings many benefits to the home where it is used. First, it brings a husband and wife closer together. The woman who thus plans and saves even a small amount immediately becomes a partner with her husband in building a home and a fortune. While a woman who unquestioningly spends what is given her is never a member of the firm. In many homes the question of money is a constant source of irritation. This is not the case where the matter is placed on a business foundation. For the basis of budget-making must be co-operation. The woman must understand her husband's income and financial plans. As partners they must handle this income. The hours they spend together planning how he is to meet mortgage, taxes, interest, etc., and how she is to meet the many and varied expenses which come under her management are very happy hours if they bring mutual understanding of one another's problem and mutual appreciation of one another's efforts.
Second, the woman who plans ahead buys to better advantage. If she knows that the little daughter must have cloak, hat, dress, three aprons, underwear, and stockings, in the fall, and that there is just so much money for this child's whole fall expenditures, she plans carefully just about what each thing may cost. She is not tempted to buy some pretty hat she sees which is so expensive that it would leave no money for the underwear or make the cloak too cheap to be durable. She learns too, that the cheapest article is sometimes the most expensive; that is, it may be so cheap it does not wear. It is better to buy a good garment which wears two seasons than a cheap one which fails to go through one. The woman who has her plans all written out can wisely take advantage of sales. She is not tempted to buy useless things just because they are cheap and on sale.
Third, if one buys to better advantage she will inevitably save more. Systematic planning means systematic saving. The savings account is a very important part of the business of homemaking. Any family, except under the direst poverty or the greatest misfortune, can save if they will. It is the habit of saving and not the amount saved which is the important thing to establish. The greatest of fortunes have started with the smallest of savings. The testimony of almost everyone who has saved, as well as of those who have not, is that it is easier to start saving in the beginning on a small or moderate income, than it is to start upon a larger one after habits of spending have been acquired. The person with a thousand dollar income says, "If I had your $2,000 income I would save," when the fact is that the two thousand dollar income referred to is the result of saving and habits of saving formed on an income of less than $1,000. The great majority of people who plan to save in the future never do it. They allow their expenses to increase as rapidly as incomes increase. A twelve hundred dollar salary with $200 saved puts a family much further on the road to ultimate success than a two thousand dollar income with $100 saved.
Fourth, families who run their finances in this business-like way are more contented. If father, mother, and children all understand what the family have to live on and know it is divided justly and carefully among the various expenses each will feel satisfied that the best possible results are being obtained. There will be far less longing and wishing for what they cannot have than where everything is indefinite. The high school girl who knows that all her clothes for the year must be covered by fifty dollars will not go crazy over wanting a forty-dollar cloak, as she might do if she knew that father provided money only for her needs and she had no definite idea of what her share of the family money was. When each child knows that his share is set aside there will be no jealousy among the children, no feeling that one is having more than another, such as exists in some families.
Fifth, out of all this grows a peace of mind which is priceless. One who is living within her income, knows that in the coming year she will again live within it and save something. This gives more happiness than riches. Having once used a budget and kept systematic accounts, no housekeeper will ever think them too much trouble. The time and effort spent on them is repaid to her many times over in the happiness they give to her and her family.
QUESTIONS.
1. What is the question with which this lesson deals?
2. What is the chief difficulty a woman has to meet in buying for her family? When does she find this hardest?
3. Why did Mrs. X spend too much in the first years of her housekeeping? How did she overcome this trouble? Why did this make them so happy? What was the big fact she learned that is of value to every family?
4. Who provides the income of the family? Who spends it? What is woman's share in the business of homemaking?
5. What is a Home Budget?
6. What are two objections many women make? What reply is made to each?
7. What kind of a budget must one begin with? What will help her to make it more exact?
8. What information can one gain from her records? Can you think of other things one might find out from them?
9. What is the first benefit the budget system brings to the home?
10. What is the second benefit?
11. What is the third benefit?
12. What is the fourth benefit?
13. What is the fifth benefit?
14. Can you think of other benefits not given in the lesson?
15. Should the finances of the home be managed on the budget plan?
Will Mrs. Susan Leighton send her full address to this office? Her magazine cannot be forwarded.