A DIFFERENT KIND OF BRIDAL SHOWER 393 The tree was placed in a copper jardiniere which had been filled with moss and greens. Scattered here and there on the table were chore girls, as if a little breeze had blown them down to rest on the pretty yellow cloth with its white embroidery imserts. Sentinels made of wooden-handled stirrers marked the places for each invited guest. Their bow ties were made of stiff white paper, and perky little chef hats made of crepe paper and banded with stiff white paper reposed jauntily above the smiling faces. The eyes, nose, and mouth on each had been done with poster paint. The guests spent the afternoon embroidering dish towels and hemming dust cloths. Each had been asked to bring along with her kitchen shower gift for the bride, a favorite condiment with a recipe in which to use it. 'These were all placed in a clothes basket, which was the gift from the hostess, and presented to the guest of honor after lunch. This kitchen shower was unique and all of the guests had a delightful time. Neighbors Vilate R. McAllister Arms folded, shoulders touching, row on row, Erect and proud, the city dwellings stand— Across the acres country homes reach out On either side, a friendly, clasping hand. ERRATA MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL In the Magazine Honor Roll for 1953, printed in the May issue, a mistake was made in listing the Magazine representative for the New England Mission. 'The name of Caro] Clark, Mission Auxiliary Secretary, was given instead of the name of Hattie B. Maughan, President, New England Mission Relief Society. The New England Mission received third highest rating among the missions and is to be congratulated upon its record of ninety-five per cent. SAFE METHOD OF FREEZING CORN Attention has been called to the inadvisability of following the method for freezing corn which appeared in the article "Gardening for the Home Freezer," Apmil 1954, page 255. We are advised that the Bureau of Human Nutrition and Home Economics definitely does not recommend freezing corn without husking or scalding. Miss Elna Miller, Extension Service Nutritionist, Utah State Agricultural College, Logan, Utah, recommends that corn to be stored in the freezer should be husked, placed in boiling water, and boiled for seven to ten minutes for corn which is to be left on the cob. If corn is to be cut from the cob, a four-minute boiling period only is necessary. In both cases the corn should be cooled before placing in the freezer. SOO Fe ee ow