Housecleaning Nostalgia Vernessa M. Nagle LMOST as though it were yesterday, the memories are crowding in—spring housecleaning time! No "lick and a promise" for that enterprise. Undertaken with the vehemence of a crusader, it swept its way from pantry to garret, and there was no retreating once the project was launched. Down came _ the base-burner; stovepipes were desooted; flues cleaned; the heaters and accessories stored for the summer. Up came the rag carpet, and the straw padding, pulverized and dusty, was carried away in_ tubs. Almost simultaneously the newly scrubbed floors were scattered with fresh straw. Again the carpets, shaken and rigorously beaten, were stretched over the straw padding, and the family walked, literally, again on air. Remember? A new "design," a combination stripe, scroll, and floral pattern wallpaper replaced the former faded prints, and again the wainscot gleamed with a new paint coat. From the beds disappeared the straw ticks, emptied, scrubbed on the washboard, left to whip in the breeze until dry, then rushed down to the strawstack to be once more inflated with fresh, pungent, taftycolored straw, and back to the beds before the dampness of sundown. The made-up bed, with freshly laundered comforters and clean feather pillows, was an invitation to luxury, provided one could ascend its new heights. With the laundered, stretched, and freshly tinted glass curtains up again, the house took on the aspects of prim civility. And then the housecleaning siege reached the grand finale—the fumigation stage. Sulphur fumes spelled disaster to any lingering germs that had escaped the scrubbing process. This procedure may be passe, but the memories of the "parlor" furniture on the. Front stoop, home-woven carpets draped across the clothesline, with every member of the family taking a "beating" turn, still give to one of those participants a pardonable, yet subtle feeling of accomplishment that today's more methodical, labor - saving methods seem unable to accomplish. -—-