[Vol1 | April 1914 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Charity and Faith]

CHARITY AND FAITH. "Charity Never Faileth." This motto has been adopted by the Relief Society, and indeed it seems most applicable for our organization, whose chief work is in that direction.
The New Testament abounds in texts upon this and relative subjects and the daily life of the Savior is replete with testimony of His acts of charity and deeds of mercy and kindness, setting for his followers this pattern of going about doinggood.
In the lives of the sisters who devote themselves to Relief Society work, we see the resemblance to those who followed the example of the Master; ministering to the wants of the needy and the sick and the sorrowing, and coming into the homes of the people like rays of sunshine.
It is truly a labor of love to go among the people with a cheerful countenance, proving that there is a delight in the work of scattering sunshine as well as sowing seed that will spring up and yield good fruit; and persuading those whom they visit to live lives of usefulness and not neglect the duties and obligations that devolve upon all who would have the spirit of the Gospel within their hearts.
In this way only can we become recipients of the blessings that follow in the pathway of those that love the Lord.
The Savior himself said: "If ye love me, ye will keep my commandments;" and this must not be simply in form and ceremony but from the heart, and with an abiding faith in God and in his Son, Jesus Christ, ^he Savior of the world. 2 BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN "Strong Son of God Immortal Love, "Whom we who have not seen Thy Face By faith and faith alone embrace, Believing where we cannot prove." Faith must be the foundation upon which to build the; apostle says: "Faith without works is dead." In the Relief Society and in the home there is abundant opportunity to manifest our faith by our works.
The sisters should not lose sight of the principles of Faith, Hope and Charity, and we might add to these, Mercy, which we are told in the scriptures, endureth forever.
Beloved sisters, do not be afraid of being thought oldfashioned if you continue to bear testimony, for in this way your own faith and the faith of others is strengthened.
The testimony of the Gospel carries with it light and we help; others even more than we are aware, when we impart of that which we have received.
We must not become weary in welldoing, but keep our Gospel Armor bright, being diligent in season and out of season to preserve in our lives and in the hearts of the children of Zion the living testimony of the truth, that we may not be found wanting in energy and in diligence in the latter-day work.
It is worth every effort we can put forth, this "prize of the high calling.'' It is difficult to realize all that the Gospel implies, all that it means to this generation now living, the height and depth and intelligence necessary to comprehend it in its fullness.
When we look back and take into consideration the principles revealed to the Prophet Joseph and which he taught to the people during the few years of his ministry, we can only exclaim in the language of the Bible, "a marvelous work and a wonder;" and we cannot doubt, if we take time to consider, that he could have been instructed in and prepared for his work only by the Lord himself; for he received thoughts and truths that had been hidden from before the foundations of this world were laid.
The Relief Society since its first organization has done a great work, not only materially but spiritually, and the women engaged in this work have grown in grace and in knowledge of right living.
Many of those who have been valiant in the work have passed away and another generation is on the stage of action.
Comparatively few of the veterans of the Society are now living to instruct and persuade and remind these younger members of the conditions and the struggles associated with the establishment of the Relief Society.
But what an education, both temporal and spiritual, the Society has been to the women who have labored in it Those who have devoted!
I BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 3 time and effort in helping to build it up and maintain it have been marvelously blessed and benefited, and have received true knowledge, surpassing in many respects the benefits derived from schools and colleges.
The writer has sometimes thought that a mission was more beneficial to boys and young men than a college course; and the sisters have a parallel opportunity in the Belief Society if they do their work well and acquit themselves honorably.
Let them therefore live up to the highest standard of excellence as a people we should be a; light to the world, "a city set upon a hill." Let us be faithful and true, and cause our light to shine, so that others may follow that light.
After all, light is life and we can not attain to great excellence without light.
When the Lord created the earth on which we live he said, "Let there be light," and immediately at His command the world became a thing of beauty.
Remember the parable of the virgins and be ye among the wise ones who kept their lamps trimmed and burning, that ye may be ready to meet the great bridegroom when he comes.
EMMELINE B. "WELLS.
EDITORIAL.