Make Christmas Cookies Early Alice P. Willardson Christmas cookies will recall an old-fashioned Christmas, and there is nothing children love to do more than making and decorating cookies, unless it is eating them. Let them help you one of those days when it is cold and gray outside. You'll find the sun shining right in your kitchen! It is fun to cut cookies in the shape of Mother Goose rhyme folks and other storybook characters. First, collect and prepare the patterns. Children's coloring books provide animals, clowns, dolls, and toys, of simple outline. Trace, then cut these from strong paper. Eliminate all small details, place pattern, and cut from dough with a sharp knife. Pictures showing the object in silhouette are the most successful. Below is an excellent recipe for wholesome plain cookies to cut into shapes. AUNT DELLA'S COOKIES 1 c. Sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder v2 c. Shortening ey c. Na egg 4 c. Flour 1% tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vanilla Cream sugar and shortening, add beaten egg, salt, and flavoring. Add milk. Sift baking powder with flour and add gradually to liquid mixture. Form into ball of dough without undue handling. Place on floured board and roll to about 1% inch in thickness. Cut with available cookie cutters or use these suggestions for variety. Bake until brown (10 to 15 min.) in 400 degree oven. MAKE CHRISTMAS COOKIES EARLY Part of the fun of making cookies is sharing them with others. For those little friends who live near you, you can put a lace doily on a colored paper plate, arrange the cookies, and use another doily to cover them. Make it all secure with a pretty Christmas ribbon. But the best way is to pack the cookies in transparent plastic boxes or cover boxes you have with adhesive backed decorator paper. When tied with ribbons and a sprig of holly, evergreen, or a poinsettia, they are beautiful. These little packages make lovely gifts to take to Grandma, to the neighbors, the homebound, cousins, or friends, and the children are proud to deliver them, especially when they had a hand in making them.