[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | April | Issue: 16 | Title: XXXVII. | Author: Unknown]

XXXVII.

	Young Barrington had stood by Maitland,
coming the moment the message of her
death was brought to him. It was on the
Sabbath day just as he was leaving the
meeting house, after having preached an
impressive sermon, rendered more solemn
because of his intense sympathy for the
family now passing through such a severe 
ordeal of grief and suffering. He had been
thinking of Anna, to whom he was greatly
attached, and who had made him a con-
fident in the most innocent way, for al-
though Anna Hilliard was not brought up
religiously her nature was of that refined
and pure type, that is termed spiritual.
Barrington’s influence was good every-
where, and especially so for Maitland; the
Doctor was very fond of him and both
families were in the habit of attending at
the little primitive meeting house where
every Sabbath day he preached to the few
devoted followers who assembled there, and
many times during the week at prayer
meetings; he was one of the most conscien-
tious and truly devoted followers of the
Reformed Church.
	IT scarcely seemed possible to the Wal-
ton household that the fair, sweet, young
mistress, whom all loved so tenderly and
reverenced with such devotion could be
thus suddenly taken from them; and the
grief of the servants equaled almost, that
of Lord Walton himself who refused all
proffered consolation, and only asked to be 
left alone. Dr. Bland was his adviser and
confident—he insisted upon being admitted
at all hours and would take no denial.
	Mr. Barrington would gladly have re-
mained with him, but he could not be

[Column 2]
persuaded to fraternize with any of his
friends, though many offers were extended.
Dr. Bland managed all the necessary busi-
ness matters that required immediate at-
tention and Mr. Barrington rendered him
all the aid in his power. Mrs. Bland had
the heaviest burden to bear, for she had not
only her deep sorrow for the loss of her
nearest, almost her only relative but the
responsibility of Lady Walton’s entire
domestic establishment. The two children
were as much her care now as her own,
and yet she could not do just as she
liked, for Edward’s nurse was wilful, and
any interference with her management
roused her temper even from Lady Walton
herself. Maitland was useless in this crisis,
and Mrs. Bland felt as if an avalanche had
suddenly fallen upon her.
	The increase of care and anxiety for Dr.
Bland also worried his wife, she knew how
much more he was doing than he was
physically able to undertake, and she
realized how much more manly it would be
in Maitland, to take some of the actual
responsibility of the distressing situation
upon himself, instead of shirking it, and
leaving others to do double duty.
	Speaking to Mr. Barrington she said “I
have no patience with such weak-minded
men as these young Lords and Baronets,
they know nothing of life as it really is,
Maitland is far better able to see after his
own affairs than Dr. Bland, (you know how
ill my husband has been the past winter)
yet he shuts himself up like a child, and
forgets the living who should be his con-
stant care—I long to tell him, but he
would not take it from a woman, nor from
anyone I presume, his father was almost as
weak, and what can we expect of sons
reared to take no active part in a world full
of work as well as pains and realities.”
	“But his mother, Mrs. Bland cannot she
be appealed to for aid in this extremity?”
said Mr. Barrington—‘‘His mother is in
great trouble at present—in fact Maitland
was sent for only a short time ago to come
and help her out of some embarrassment,
though of what use he would have been I
do not know—I am sorry for Lady Walton
—not in herself equal to any great trial.”
	“What then do you think will be the
course pursued by Lord Walton, is there no
one who can come forward and show him
the path of duty in reference to his
children’s welfare;’ said Mr. Barrington
with the most serious air. "I fear not at
present," replied Mrs. Bland we shall have
to make the best of it under the circum-
stances, and my husband will do all, and
more than he ought—but the friends we
know here are most considerate and helpful.
It is the little ones for whom my heart
aches, if Anna could only have said what
she would like I should have insisted upon
her wishes being carried out to the very
letter, but we none of us know.” Here
Mrs. Bland broke down completely, and
her young friend who was like a brother,
retired leaving her to recover composure,
knowing so well that it would be better so,
than to offer words of sympathy which
were all in his power to give. He too felt
keenly the loss of Lady Anna, and his
friendship was sincere for the sorrowing
ones; Dr. Bland had asked him to speak
at the funeral, and he scarcely knew wheth-
er his spiritual courage would be sufficient
for the ordeal;—but he would not flinch.
	All that love and the most hallowed
tenderness could do, was done with
reverential feeling for the mistress of the

[Column 3]
Walton House—and when in the plain,
little meeting-house, where she had at-
tended service usually on the Sabbath-day,
the sermon had been preached that melted
to tears every listener, the remains of the
beloved one were laid away among the tall
pines near by, where only a few simple
slabs marked the resting places of those
who had died in the little colony since its
settlement. Her maid made loud lamenta-
tion, and Mrs. Bland whose heartfelt grief
was greatest of all, kept it within, nor
showed any outward sign to the multitude.
As soon as possible, and really before any
positive method of management of the
family matters had been settled, Maitland
announced to Mrs. Bland his intention of
going to England, and shutting up the
house.
	“And pray what disposal will you make
of the children during your absence.”
said Mrs. Bland in her most plaintive tone
of voice, for it seemed incredible that he
could think of so soon separating himself
from these motherless little ones. She
could scarcely believe him in earnest yet
his manner of speech so indicated. “I had
supposed that your kinship to Anna, and
your interest in the children would be so
strong, that you would not wish to be
separated from them; your house is large
enough to take them both in with their
nurses and your heart I am sure would say,
yes! I shall soon return with my mother,
if she can be persuaded to leave Walton
Hall, and then we shall relieve you of the
daily anxiety, though I am sure you will
always be like a second mother to Anna’s
children, and I shall never give them
another.”
	Mrs. Bland knew not what reply to
make but self-possessed as usual, she was
determined to speak her mind. It seemed
an opportune time, she took in the situa-
tion as a whole; she knew how willing he
was others should bear his responsibilities,
and his mother was of the same type. She
had loved Anna as a sister and desired to
watch over her children, but she felt that the
father ought at least to accept the position
of a parent, she had hoped it would have
aroused his manhood to have such a charge
upon his hands and heart—but she saw
now with sorrow and with pity, that even
Anna’s death had not had the effect she had
hoped and looked for. Mrs. Bland almost
choked with emotion as she said “Maitland
I must speak to you as I think a sister
should, you must be aware that there is a
solemn duty resting upon you in the care
of these helpless children, a duty which
cannot be fulfilled by any one but yourself,
and I entreat you now, as you value your
future happiness, and theirs, not to leave
them here and go away. I will do my
part but you must also do yours, as a
father should.”
	“But my mother needs me cousin Jane,
she is in great trouble as you know, and it
is my duty to stand by her and defend
her.”
	“Cousin Maitland far be it from me to
wish you to neglect your mother, but she is
a woman in years; and has seen much of
the world, she will not be at a loss for
advisers, she has those near her capable of
giving good counsel, and she can wait;—
she will not expect you to leave these lit-
tle children to come to her, they should be
your first thought. I cannot consent to
your going, my better judgment tells me it
would be wrong, Anna would not have for-
saken these children had you been taken


away, she would have been father and
mother both as nearly as possible, let me
plead for her—you surely will reconsider
this idea of going away.”
	“Cousin Jane excuse me if I say I must
go, there will be a ship sailing in a few
days now—I will try and come back soon
bringing my mother with me—I cannot
bear to stay here now that Anna has gone, 
I never liked the country as you know, it
was to please her that I came.” Mrs.
Bland felt it was hopeless to say more but
decided to ask the Doctor to add his en-
treaties to hers, and so they parted for the
night, her mind full of the grave phase of
the difficulty she had to face, while he only
thinking of himself, longed to be off and
away, and forget unpleasantness in new
faces and scenes. Before retiring that
night Jane talked long and seriously with
her husband, who promised to do his best
to awaken the fatherly instincts of Mait-
land and make him see the wrong he would
do by leaving his children to others, and
his affairs with a steward who was very
incompetent to manage for him when his
master was there to oversee. In a few days
Dr. Bland found an opportunity to speak to
Maitland, and he listened attentively for he
held the good Doctor in the highest estima-
tion, but he made no promises, and as time
went by it was very apparent he intended
going; the servants were gossipping among
each other as is quite natural, and the
houeskeeper came to Mrs. Bland with the
news as she imagined it to be, that his
Lordship (her young master) was about to
leave for England.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
