[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | April | Issue: 16 | Title: THE ORIGIN OF LIFE. | Author: Unknown]

THE ORIGIN OF LIFE. 

	(Written for A. M. Blanchard, by Zion's
favorite poetess after her return from Palestine.)

MAN’S tide of existence is fearfully changed—
From God and from nature, how widely es-
	tranged!
Vice dandled by fashion, mocks Nature’s de-
	signs,
And existence is lessened as virtue declines.
We wake into being—how hopeless at birth!
How short, at the longest, our stay on the earth!
Too short to develop (we merely begin)
The germ of the Deity planted within.
As a father transmits from the father to son,
So God, our Creator, our Father, has done;
No attribute God in His glorified form 
Possesses, but man, too, inherits the germ.
Though frail and imperfect unlearned and unwise,
He’s endowed with capacities needful to rise
From an embryo state, onward, upward—at
	length—
To a fulness of knowledge, of wisdom and
	strength.
He’s his own acting agent with freedom to
	choose—
With power to accept, and with power to refuse,
With a future before him, the sequel of life,
To which this is a preface, with consequence
	rife.
He should learn how to strengthen this life’s
	feeble chain,
And bring back the longevity rightful to gain
Develop ability, greatness and worth,
By improving himself, and improving the earth.
He should squander no talent, no health and no
	time,
All, all are important—age, manhood and prime;
As we sow we shall reap—what we earn we’ll
	receive—
We'll be judged by our work—not by what we
	believe.
We’re now laying foundations for what we shall
	be,
For life’s current extends to Eternity’s sea;
And whatever debases, ennobles, refines,
By our acts, we imprint in indelible lines.
We’re the offspring of God. We should never
	degrade
The form which at first in His image was made;
If we honor our beings and callings while here,
We’ll secure an admission to life’s higher sphere.
In the likeness of Deity gracefully formed—
With His own noble attributes richly adorned;
For a grand immortality man is designed—
Perfected in body and perfect in mind.
