Real Nerve By Afton Free Baird
THE wind-driven sleet of an early March storm had driven all the inhabitants of the little Utah settlement indoors for the evening. The Wasatch Mountains were still white with heavy snow and the wind which swept down through its canyons was bitterly cold. There were some who were fortunate enough to have their own cabins and families, but a few old-timers and myself had gathered around the red-hot, rusty stove in Uncle Billy's store to listen to the storm and to drive away the "lonesomeness." The old-timers grew reminiscent as the hour grew late, and the talk drifted around to the early days in the West. Hank Turner told of the iron nerve of a young cowpuncher, and Dad Potter told a yarn about a game young Indian-fighter. "Well, I dunno," says Uncle Billy, "I guess they was game enough, but strikes me some fellers' nerve is jest plain lucky recklessness. I once knowed a feller thet showed real nerve, as I calls it, an' it warn't none o' this daredevil show-off kind neither. It was more 'n real nerve in his case, too, 'cause he was naturally so timid-like and scared. It happened 'way back in the early days in Nauvoo—time when the Missourians an' the other factions was tryin' so hard to lay hands on Joseph Smith, the Prophet, an' the other Mormon leaders. This story was given first place in a contest which was conducted in Granite Stake under the auspices of the Literary Department as a fitting culmination to the two years course of study of the short story. There was a young convert livin' there named Timothy Rand—a tall, husky chap, maybe twenty-five years old—with a high, slanting forehead, an' a thin, long nose, an' pointed chin. In fact he looked a lot like the Prophet hisself. Everybody noticed it an' joked him 'bout it. Thet's what caused all his trouble. But fust, let me tell yo' more about him so's you'll understand. Several times he'd been asked t' join the Nauvoo guards placed 'round the city when trouble was abrewin', but he always managed to squeeze out of it somehow. He was as scared of a gun as a woman of a snake. Once, when I accidentally chopped my finger off, Tim fainted dead away at the sight o' blood. O' course, we all kinder laughed up our sleeves at him an' some o' the boys openly jeered at him. One time a committee asked him, jes' kind of in fun, t' offer a plan t' keep the trouble-makers out o' Nauvoo. Did yo' ever hear of the Whistling and Whittling Brigade?" Here Uncle Billy chuckled, "Well, sir, thet was his idee. We all laughed our fool heads off when we heard about it, but, by jove it did a heap o' good. Jest the same. The idee was this. Men was stationed 'round the town as sort o' lookouts an' jest as soon as they spotted a suspicious character they'd start a followin' him, a whistlin' an' a whittlin' a little stick. Never a word did they say, jest whistled, an' whittled, an' followed. It soon got on the stranger's nerve an' fust thing yo' know, they'd sneak right back where they come from. It worked jest the same, but. Somehow, it made folks laugh at Tim Rand all the more. Then somethin' happened," Uncle Billy straightened up in his chair and a more serious expression came over his old face. He went on. "A crowd of us neighbors 'round had gathered over at Peter Stone's place fer a little cottage prayer-meetin'. The house was on the edge o' town, down near the river—sort o' standin' off by itself. Fore we knowed what was goin' on a mob was 'pon us. They must o' been more'n a hundred of 'em—all armed an' more'n half drunk. I recognized the leader fust thing. One o' the toughest wallopers in the country—a regular giant, he was, with little close-set eyes thet made your blood run cold jest to look into 'em. 'Coyote' Wimmer, they called him—but Lord knows why! He was more like a wolf than a coyote. Well, sir, they sure had us in a trap. We shoved the women an' children in the provisions closet, an' turned 'round to see thet grinnin' devil fillin' up the doorway. Jest the minute he sees Tim Rand he takes him right off for the Prophet, hisself. If yo' could o' seen the look on his face yo'd a sworn thet it was Satan stood before yo'. 'Well?' Says he. 'We didn't hardly 'spect this great pleasure. It's you we're wantin', Joe Smith,' says he, pointing straight at Tim. 'Come along peaceful like an' we won't be molestin' the rest o' your prayin' outfit.' The name of the Prophet spread like wildfire. Already plumb crazy with whiskey an' hate, they was soon ten times worse. They hollered, they pushed, they cursed, an' they fought. I thought they was gonna push the whole front o' the house in. Standin' jest opposite me was Tim Rand. His face was ash-grey, an' I could see big drops o' sweat a standin' out on his pale forehead. But there was a strange set expression on his face I'd never seen before. No mistakin' he did have a look of the Prophet 'bout him. I stood like a dummy a starin' at him. 'Coyote' took a step closer, then I seemed to come to my senses. 'Thet ain't Joe Smith,' I yelled. 'You're wrong! Thet ain't Joe Smith; thet's Tim Rand—' But there warn't nobody a listenin' to me. The noise o' the mob was deafenin'. All tryin' to push themselves through the door at the same time. I tried to push Tim into the kitchen but he put out his hand to stop me. He was tryin' to tell me somethin'. I caught the words, women and children, and somethin' 'bout sparin' the rest o' us. Then as though to shake the fear clear out o' his soul, he jerked his shoulders an' his head up an' walked straight for the door. Well, sir, thet mob went plumb mad when they seen Tim—thinkin' him the Prophet, o' course. They liked to pulled him limb from limb. They drug him half a mile to a tree thet stood along near the center of Durfey Street an' there they bound him; abusin' him while they done it They beat him, stuck knives in him, an' cursed him. One big feller kept runnin' over to Beard's forge to heat an iron to brand him with. But never a sound did Tim make 'cept to groan now an' then. It warn't long till nearly all Nauvoo knowed what was happenin'. O' course, we had our signals, our own kind of wireless, so to speak. In no time the streets were full o' Mormons, all runnin' in the same direction to Durfey Street. A few had guns but most of 'em had clubs and sticks. One feller was a runnin' with a milk-stool in his hand. You see, the Prophet always warned us 'bout takin' any needless lives," explained Uncle Billy, then he went on again in his quaint way. "When the mob seen the Mormons comin', they soon scattered, firin' a few wild shots as they ran, an' leavin' poor Tim a hangin' limp over the ropes thet bound him to the tree. Well, sir, everybody thought he was dead. We untied his poor, bloody body and laid it carefully on the grass. Every jack-last man thet stood there with his hat off a lookin' down at him, knowed they'd prob'ly never again get a chance t' see another man thet was half as much a man as Tim." "Did he die?" I asked. "No, sir, he lived! The prophet had him carried up to the Manor House, an' there he was nursed back to life again. O' course he carried some mighty bad scars the rest o' his life." Uncle Billy stretched his feet out to the fire, then concluded, "Well, boys, thet's what I calls a show o' real nerve.
