[WomansExponent | Vol17 | 1888 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: THE WOMAN'S MOVEMENT. | Author: the woman's movement for equal rights,]

THE WOMAN'S MOVEMENT.
	Since the days of Eve her daughters have
lived under the curse of social inferiority to
her brother man.  In this generation the irk-
someness of this condition has been displayed
by the woman's movement for equal rights,
[column 2]
This movement has met with slurs and opposi-
tion at every step, just as every truth has
always been opposed by its adversary; but not-
withstanding opposition and misrepresentation
and denouncement, even by women themselves,
it has made a very marked progress within the
last fifty years.  This is well.  God, who made
us all, and who is no respecter of persons, in-
tended that woman should in every way be equal
to man in dignity; but He also knew the station
in which she would be placed while on earth,
that her child-bearing and child-rearing sphere
would curtail other aspirations, which man
would have the opportunity to follow.  Of the
two He knew that the former would be of the
greater importance to the world, and therefore,
in the guise of a curse, bestowed upon her the
blessing to be subject to man, that she might
the better fulfill her mission, and that in this
mission she might receive the support and pro-
tection of him whom He made stronger for the
world's battles.
	It is true that labor and suffering have both
fallen to her lot since then, and while she has
not shirked her own heavy calling, she has
oftentimes assumed patiently the part allotted
to her husband as well.  This has proven her
own faithfulness, and if man may have often
failed in his part, and with an unsympathetic
heart laid his burden upon his patient, con-
scientious, suffering wife, let him render his
account unto Him who assigned unto each his
position!
	To me it seems like one of the latter day
signs, that women are becoming restless be-
neath their oppressed situation.  The world's
record will soon be finished, and when the mil-
lennium shall set in, and the curse be removed,
the sudden emancipation of women, without
forethought would have a startling and un-
pleasant effect.  It were better to awaken first
and struggle for what we believe to be right,
and then in the end to be crowned with suc-
cess by a just and righteous God.  I write with
confidence, for I firmly believe that our Hea-
venly Father loves His daughters just as well
as he loves His sons, and that He does not de-
sire the glorification of one at the sacrifice of
the happiness of the other.
	Women are respected in communities or na-
tions in proportion to the status of civilization
of those nations.  In savage society they are
held as little, if any, above the brutes.  In
Turkey they are not believed to possess immor-
tal souls; in more refined society their position
is comparatively higher, but how many men
even here will not sneer at any effort for the
higher education and standard of woman, and
look with more or less contempt (it may even
be unconscious), upon a patient, loving, plod-
ding, over-burdened wife!  Of course men
who know that this is true will hide themselves
behind a score of excuses, but the hard fact of
inconsiderate indifference, heedlessness and
conscious superiority (?) remain the same.  This
is almost a general fault, though one which in
our sermons, self-examining and resolutions
toward better living, is quite overlooked.
	I have said the station of woman accords in
communities with their culture and civilization. 
Is it not, then, possible that when we once
reach that high, perfect and glorious civiliza-
tion which we aspire to in that great future
which shall celestialize the good and pure, we
may there meet the thorough emancipation of
our sex, and find them elevated to their proper
[column 3]
place.  Ay, verily, nor will we accomplish
this before that time.
	In the meantime we must pray and struggle
to emancipate ourselves from vanity, envy, dis-
cord, narrow mindedness, and all that is con-
trary to true greatness, to the meekness and
humility of the Spirit of Christ, and all that
cometh not from God.  We must learn that
noble independence which shrinks not from
drawing the censure and contempt of others
upon itself, so long as it is in defense of princi-
ples which it honestly believes to be true.  We
shall find that in this lies the greater emancipa-
tion and better freedom, which will prepare
and make us worthy of equal condition with
honest and intelligent men.  If we are in
truth inferior to him in attainments of knowl-
edge, and our hearts are devoted to winning
the carnal eye of praise and flattery, instead of
learning the things that are necessary for gov-
ernment, how can we consistently claim an
equal political place by his side?  It were bet-
ter to study the sciences and general truths of
nature's God, than to devote our time and
souls to the following of fashion or the giddy,
fascinating, alluring, but hollow, dead sea
ashes of the world's tinsel.
	All hail, then, to the woman's movement!
May it spread over all the land, and its spirit
enter every heart that desires to see the triumph
of Right and Justice!
					    RUBY LAMONT.
Beaver, Utah.

