[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | October | Issue: 4 | Title: INTERESTING LETTER. | Author: Unknown]

	INTERESTING LETTER.
	HAZELDENE FARM, AMALINDA,
		near East London, Cape Colony,
				September 8th, 1907.
	To Mrs Bathsheba Smith.
DEAR SISTER IN THE LORD:
	A letter from this place may be a sur-
prise to you, but I pray that you will re-
ceive it kindly.
	I long to see you, and as that privilege
is denied, the next best thing to a face to
face interview is a talk on paper. I am
a “Latter-day Saint,” was baptized on
April 3rd of this year and I cannot ex-
press my great joy and peace in our glori-
ous grand gospel, although I have been a
Christian all my life, never before have I
been so happy and satisfied. I have al-
ways worked for all that is good and en-
nobling and uplifting, tried to be like
Jesus, our dear elder Brother and Savior.
I am eldest living of mother’s family of
twelve. I was born on 9th January 1869
in Salt Lake City, came to C. C. when a

[Column 2]
year old with my parents, who were Mor-
mons. Away from the Church has been
of harm to this family. We have not had
the blessings and privileges of our moth-
er’s religion. My brother of 23 was bapt-
ized with me and I think others will be in
time. I have only one child, a boy of 10.
He was baptized and I hope to bring him
up a true and faithful Latter-day Saint.
	I am intensely interested in all accounts
of our Church meetings, conferences, etc.
and read with joy every item I can find in
Deseret News. A few copies of WOMAN’S
EXHONENT have come to me from time
to time. I am always interested in the
Relief Society reports and especially in
your words. I was so glad to see your
picture in May number and I feel to
want to send you my heartfelt wishes
and I am at last obeying the promptings
of my heart. I would love to meet a
woman who had known our beloved
Prophet Joseph. I hope you will send me
a few lines of your testimony as to His
divine mission from one who has known
him will be valued by me. The elders
who have labored in this city have been
so true and earnest and I count it a bles
sing to have met such pure, good, young
men. We missed Elder Cannon, he is
indeed a sweet Christian, so few respond
to the message. We number only six
in E. L. I long to be in Utah where I
could enjoy the services and engage in
work of all kinds and see the lovely
temple. In becoming a “Mormon” I know
I shall have some thing to bear. I already
feel a coolness of some friends toward me
and my sensitive nature shrinks from be-
ing hurt and pained, but the Father will
make me brave to defend our faith that is
so misunderstood. My mother and I long
to go to Utah and it is our daily hope and
prayer that the way may be opened for
us to go. My dear good father died eight
years ago, had he lived, he had resolved
to take us all back to Utah. Oh, how we
miss him, and mother has never been the
same since that terrible grief. Letters
from our sisters in Utah do cheer us. I
know you are a busy woman and your age
as well, but I hope and pray for a few
words from you as soon as you can. I
shall esteem it a favor. Hoping this finds
you in good health. Mother joins me in
love. Think of me as your sister in the
Gospel.			Susie M. Morgan.
	MRS. BATHSHEBA SMITH.
Many a happy year be thine
	If our Father will!
He has traced the fair design
	He will fill it, line by line,
Working patiently, until
	Thy completed life shall shine
Glorious in the life divine.
“Upward, still upward,” thy pathway be
	Into the sunshine grand and free;
Leaving the mists and clouds below.
	Gaining the pure and stainless snow
“Upward, still upward” Thy faithful Guide
	Always clo e at His Pilgrims s de
Leading thee on from height to height,
	Nearer and nearer the stars of light.
