[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | October | Issue: 4 | Title: Uintah Stake | Author: MARY B. HENRY,]

			UINTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference (also
the Annual Conference) was held in the
New Stake Tabernacle at Vernal, August
26, 1907. President Sarah M. Colton pre-
siding.
	There were present with us Sisters
Emma S. Woodruff and Annie Wells
Cannon of the General Board from Salt
Lake City. There were also several
brethren of the Priesthood and a good re-
presentation of sisters. After the usual
opening exercises President Sarah M.
Colton welcomed the sisters, and spoke
of the completion of the tabernacle. She
reported her work and gave a short his-
tory of the Relief Society from the first
settlement of this valley until the present
time.
	General and local officers were sustained,
also a financial report of the Stake Board
was read.
	We had reports from the following pre-
sidents:
	Hannah Odekirk, Vernal Relief Society.
	Phoebe Hislop, Maeser Relief Society.
	Mary J. Hards, Glines Relief Society.
	Counselor Alice Billings, Jensen Relief
Society. 
	Counselor Adella Hunting, Naples Re-
lief Society.
	A Duet was given from Glines Relief
Society by Miss Effie Johnson and Bro.
Frank Thomas.
	Lecture by Annie K. Bartlett, entitled
“Duty of parents to children.”
	Emma Woodruff addressed the congre-
gation touched on childrens rights, and
the work of the Relief Society, advised
the sisters to gather grain in the time of
harvest, she read the remarks of Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith to the Relief So-
ciety given at Salt Lake City Conference,
advised the sisters to do all the good pos-
sible, bore her testimony to the truthful-
ness of the gospel.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon spoke of
the teachers’ duties in the Relief Society
and the character one should have; to
avoid all back biting, advised the young
women to join the Relief Society, warned
mothers not to send their daughters to
the cities to work without proper care,
urged the storing of wheat, and the im-
portance of the privilege of equal suffr-
age to women.
	President Colton announced officers
meeting at the close of this meeting, ad-
journed until evening at 7:30 to meet at
Vernal Ward House.
	Singing and Benediction.
Evening Session. Opened by singing
and Prayer. First on the program a lec-


[Column 1]
ture on “Charity,” given by Mrs. Annie
Young.
	President Colton said we want to place
some of our work before you. Our work
is not only in one way but many, feeding
the hungry, clothing the naked, nursing
the sick, comforting the mourners, we also
inform ourselves along gospel lines, in-
vited the young sisters and brethren to
visit the Relief Society often.
	A Solo was rendered by Brother David
Mainwaring.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon was glad to
continue the meeting, said that we could
accomplish more by organized Society
work than by individual effort, that the
Prophet Joseph Smith foresaw the good
that could be done by organization when
he gave the first $5.00 gold piece into the
Relief Society and said “what I do here-
after for charity I will do through the
Relief Society.” We are proud of our
organization, again advised the mothers
not to send their girls from home to work,
without every precaution being used.
	Sister Zina Young Card said, we know
the Relief Society was organized for good,
spoke of the work of the Relief Society
in carpeting the tabernacle which had
just been dedicated to the Most High,
advised parents to help them children to
get the land and keep it as God intended
it for our inheritance for the people who
seek God and His righteousness and not
those who live for self alone.
	Stake Counselor Don B. Colton said
if he would become a member of woman’s
organization it would be the Relief So-
ciety, spoke of the spirit of the members,
and the care for the sick, spoke on chari-
ty and its influence, and the work of the
Relief Society.
	Patriarch Samuel R. Bennion said if
we have anything to give to the poor give
it to the Relief Society, for mothers
should be the best judge of the childrens
wants, said do not wear one sister out
because she is willing to work, but call in
the young sisters to take care of the sick.
	President Colton thanked all who had
taken part in this conference.
	Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Conference adjourned for three months
after the Benediction.
			MARY B. HENRY,
				Assistant Secretary.
 
