Sunday Evening Porch Supper By Lucy Rose Middleton
Frequently too much time and thought are spent in preparing the Sunday dinner. In many homes this meal is planned and served with more style and formality than any other. The responsibility and work, of course, fall chiefly on the mother. Instead of being able to relax with the rest of the household, her tasks are greatly increased. There is always the alternative of "eating out," but we all know how dear to the masculine heart is the pleasure of having the Sunday meal at home. During summer, the cooking of hot meals becomes a withering task. At this time the customary Sunday dinner may well be replaced by an occasional porch supper. Formality may be dropped and the preparing and serving shared by all. Another advantage of this type of meal is its elasticity in accommodating unexpected guests. Many a supper planned for five or six has easily served ten or eleven. Buffet service, in which the guests serve themselves, is the best to adopt. A long narrow table covered with a white linen cloth is ideal. Plan the food so that it will go on the plate without crowding. Avoid very moist foods, as they are hard to manage and are likely to spoil the appearance of the plate. Two courses are usually served, a main course and a dessert. The main course generally consists of a substantial salad (such as chicken), sandwiches, cold meats or some hot dish. A beverage may also be included in this course. Short cake, a gelatin dessert or pastries are suitable for the second course. An appetizer (such as tomato juice well seasoned), relishes, cheese and deviled eggs, are optional additions.
Tomato Juice Cocktail 2 cups tomatoes, raw or canned 1/4 cup water 1 onion top 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon pepper 1 1/2 teaspoons sugar 3 cloves 5 drops Tabasco sauce 1 1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 teaspoon lemon juice
Combine all ingredients except the lemon juice and boil slowly for twenty minutes. Press through a sieve, forcing through as much pulp as possible. Add lemon juice and chill thoroughly. Serve very cold. This may be kept in a screw tight jar for several days.
Strawberry Cocktail Strawberries Pineapple cubes Powdered sugar Lemon juice
Wash berries and cut in halves, reserving a few of the finest to use as a garnish. Mix with pineapple, sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice. Chill and serve in cocktail dishes.
A Salad Platter Place diagonally in the center of a large platter two cucumbers that have been sliced very thin and left in their original shape. Around these put a row of sliced tomatoes; overlap the slices so that they form a neat oval of bright red. Next come sections of lettuce that have been cut in wedgelike pieces from the head, as the sections of an orange. Arrange these sections on the long side of the platter. Decorate the platter with rosebud radishes and dill pickles cut in fan-shape pieces. A bowl of French dressing and one of mayonnaise, should be placed by the salad platter to permit a choice of dressing for the salad. Thin slices of cold lamb go well with this salad.
Chicken Salad 3 cups diced, cooked chicken 1 cup fresh cooked peas 3 hard cooked eggs, diced 4 small sweet pickles, chopped 1 teaspoon onion, chopped fine 1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley 1 cup diced celery
Put all ingredients together and mix with mild boiled dressing. Serve on crisp lettuce leaf. A few whole pecans may be added if desired.
Date and Nut Bread 1 cup dates 1/4 cup nuts 1 cup boiling water 1 teaspoon soda 2 cups bread flour 1 egg 1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla
Wash, stone, and cut dates in small pieces. Pour the boiling water over the dates, salt, sugar, butter, and soda. Sift baking powder with flour and add all at once to the date mixture. Cool. Add beaten egg, vanilla and nuts. (This mixture is rather thin and a light color. When baked it is very dark brown.) Pour into a loaf tin and bake 1 hour at 350 degrees Fah.
Fruit Punch 1 pint grape juice 3 tablespoons lemon juice 1/4 cup orange juice 1 cup fresh pineapple pulp with juice 1/4 cup sugar Grated rind of 1 orange 4 sprigs fresh mint Few gratings nutmeg Crushed ice 1 quart water Grated rind of 1 lemon
Mix all ingredients together except the cream and let stand in the ice box until thoroughly chilled. Pour over cracked ice and serve in tall glasses. (Whipped cream may be served on top if desired.) Garnish with mint leaves.
Orange Cakelets 4 eggs 1 cup sugar 1/4 cup boiling water 1 1/4 cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder Grated rind of 1/2 orange
Beat the eggs with 1/2 cup sugar until the mixture is very thick. Add the boiling water and the other half cup sugar and beat again. Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together and add to the first mixture. Add the grated rind and bake in a shallow, well greased pan for twenty minutes at 375 deg. Fah. When done allow to cool, cut in small squares, and dip in an icing made of confectioner's sugar and orange juice, then dip tops only in chopped nuts.