A Mother of Men By Florence Fairbanks N Birmingham, England, in the year 1836 a little boy was left an orphan by the death of his mother. He was early apprenticed to a machinist where he spent his boyhood. Pins at that time were made with a loose head that was screwed on as a bur and bolt are now connected. This little boy, Walter H. Huish, grew up and became an inventor. He invented the solid head pin as it is now used. Other small things were also invented by him. In about the year 1853 he married Ann Smith and later they accepted the Gospel and started for Zion. After landing in America this young couple first settled in St. Louis. The young husband set up a machine shop and for a number of years worked at his trade as a machinist. Here Lillie Annetta Huish, third child of the union, was born. The parents decided to continue their journey to Utah, so in the year 1859 they moved on to Payson, Utah, where a friend was already located. Mr. Huish again set up his shop and went into business. His was the first nail factory in Utah. He made a business of repairing machinery. He was a furniture maker and a dealer in lumber, being part owner in several saw mills. The wife, Ann, was a very fine business woman and did a big part of the business management until the oldest son, John, was old enough to take it over himself. This business ability of the mother was inherited by the daughter, Lillie. She did the family sewing and took her place in the home learning, as most pioneer girls did, to manage a home in all its phases. She went through the grade schools of Payson and for a time was a student under J. L. Townsend, the first high school teacher of Payson. She was a modest, retiring girl, and very. Serious minded. She became friendly with Mary Fairbanks whose brother, John, and she became attached to each other. In the year 1876 William G. Young, a patriarch, stopped at Payson giving blessings to those who desired them. John Fairbanks acted as his scribe. When Lillie Huish came for her blessing and had gone, Brother Young turned to John and said, "Brother Fairbanks, you should try to win her. She would make you a mighty fine wife." "We are going together now, and I mean to do my best, replied young John. They were married the next year by Bishop Joseph S. Tanner at his home, the mothers of both being the only ones at the wedding. In the fall of that year they, in company with three other young couples, went by team and wagon to St. George to go through the temple and be sealed. The trip took three weeks. They loaded their wagons with pipe for Silver Reefe to clear the expenses of the trip. No trouble or inconvenience was too much for these sturdy young people of pioneer times.. The Gospel meant all to them and they wanted all its blessings. They lived with her parents for the first two or three years until just before the birth of their second child, Lillie Annetta (their only girl). The first child, John Leo, was a_ sturdy little fellow early showing ability in art. When he was six years old he drew a picture A MOTHER OF MEN of the baby in a cradle that showed talent, and in which some likeness to the baby could be seen. They moved again into rooms rented from John's brother, Henry. There they lived until the father was called on a mission. As her mother was an invalid her parents wished her to return to their home until he should return from his mission. A new baby was expected within a month after the time set for his departure. The father was sad at leaving her in that delicate condition but both felt that nothing would be lost by obeying the call of those in authority over them, so preparations were carried on for his departure. Another company was to leave in a few weeks but they decided to go when called and trust in their Heavenly Father. The husband before leaving promised his wife, in the name of the Lord, that if she would put her trust in Him and call in the Elders whenever there was sickness, all would be well with them while he was away. She had those womanly qualities, confidence and trust in her husband, so she did not hesitate or question his authority in such a promise, but kept it as a guide and protection. The new baby, a boy, arrived on the 14th of November. She had a letter sent immediately to inform the father that all was well at home. John had taken orders for books before he left but they had not arrived, so she delivered them and made collections. She carried on cheerfully while he was away. As she was with her parents her trials were lessened greatly. One day she stepped on a nail running it into her foot. She was disabled for some time. It looked as if serious measures would have to be taken as it seemed to grow worse and looked so black. Her father gave her no encouragement. 483 But she said, "John told me if I trusted in the Lord and called in the Elders all would be well." So the Elders were called in and they administered to her and before they left, as she sat looking at her foot, she saw a little yellow spot appear and gather to a point. She sterilized a needle, opened it and drained it. It was soon well and she felt to give the Lord the praise. After returning from his mission John set about building a home of their own, and with the help of the wife's father, a comfortable house was soon completed. It was here in this home that the remainder of their family was born except Avard who was born after the family had moved to Provo. The children of this couple are: John Leo, Lillie Annetta, Vernon Walter, Raymond (who died a few hours after birth), Ervin, LeRoy S., Ortho L., Claude, and a pair of twin boys Delamar Rigolet and LeMar, LeMar dying at birth, and Avard Tennison (tenth son). When Claude was a baby the plans were carried out for the father to go to France with Hafen, Pratt, and Evans to study art. The mother was not very anxious for her husband to take up art as a profession as she well knew the trials and struggles an artist must endure. But when she found his heart was set on it she, the brave, true helpmate she was, did not complain but cheerfully did her part to aid him. A splendid example of her character can be gleaned from a letter written to her by her husband while he was in France. — "Lillie, I cannot help comparing you with some women I know: who complain and find fault about the hardships that must be endured by a woman caring for her family alone. "Even though you did not seem 484 anxious for me to come to France, you have stood by me like a true companion, doing all in your power to sustain me and to carry on while I_am away. "Your letters are an inspiration to me and always help me to do my best." In a letter to her husband in Sept. 29, 1890, she showed a courage typical of the women of her time, but rather a marvel in these days. She told how she managed her buying of food and clothes, of what she did with cows and chickens. How she managed the repairs on household furnishings and in many ways showed her ability and industrv. She said: "John, send us more views of the places you visit. Get some souvenirs and make a note of where and when you got them. They will be of interest later. See all the places of interest while you have a chance, you may never get another. True it will cost a little more, but I would rather scrimp a bit more at home to make it up. I can furnish the money for some souvenirs from my own. It will be better spent that way than in shows." She ever had a heart big with understanding, a mind seeking for expression, and an opportunity to broaden under conditions trying to one less brave. She taught the children to honor and respect their father and set the example by doing so herself. While he was away she at several times anointed and administered to her own little ones in the absence of the Elders and she states in her letter to her husband, "T immediately saw a change for the better each time." She was very artistic and helped the children in their efforts at art. If, at Thanksgiving, a cheaper cut of meat must replace a turkey, the children were delighted by the huge turkey molded of creamed potatoes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and browned to a delicate, tempting color. At various times she made framed pictures of seeds and grain, forming them into flowers, and at one time took a prize in the Utah State Fair on one such. She did her own designing and making of the family clothes. Her family was her fortune, and she always said, "My boys must be clothed and cared for with as much pride and love as a girl." She never held the common idea, "Anything is good enough for a boy." After some of the art students had returned home, John stayed on in France another year as they both felt it was best to make the best of such an expensive trip. After John's return from France and when his work in the Salt Lake Temple was finished the family moved from Payson to Provo where the oldest son had already been in the B. Y. U. For two years. Here the last son, Avard, was born. When he was about six or eight months old his mother was carrying him in one arm and a lamp in the other when she caught her toe on the door step and fell. In her efforts to save her baby from harm and the lamp from a dangerous explosion, she hurt her back in such a way that it caused her much suffering, and eventually caused her death. The doctors could not help her and she grew worse and worse until she was little more than a shadow of her former self. Before her death she often told her husband that should she die first she wished him to marry again and to not choose someone else's_ wife, (widow) but to select one who would be-his own here and hereafter. After thirty-five years this splendid family still lives a monument to the mother who has passed on, The daughter, Mrs. Nettie Yates, is a A MOTHER OF MEN girl any mother might be proud to spend her life in rearing. The sons are clean, honest, honorable men of character, all having gone on in their search for education as their parents helped them begin. John Leo and 485 Avard are artists of note along with their father. All the family are artistic and talented. Two sons have filled missions. Can any one measure the good accomplished by such a mother?