FLEECY WHITE CLOUDS AND FLEECY WHITE SHEEP
Joy in the Beautiful By Jeanette W. Beers
Some find joy in service; joy in religion; or joy in friendship, while others find it in attainment, knowledge or truth. I wish to help you find joy in the beautiful. Beauty is so near us that very often we pass it by without recognition. Most fortunately my bedroom has an east front with three large windows. Each night I raise high the window shades that I may see clearly in the early morn that most beautiful, soft, crimson glow as the new day blushes at its dawning. The birds in their love cooing, sing so sweetly their welcome to the newborn morning. Could there be a more beautiful setting than to watch the sun rise and spread its glorious rays over our earth that is just budding into new life? This picture just thrills my soul with gratitude to my Heavenly Father for his many blessings to us. Our eyes are often blind and our souls are not attuned to the thousands of beautiful things God has given us. Is there not beauty in the spoken word, or in a smile enlightening the countenance; in children's laughter or in a mother's tears? Think of the many beauties nature gives to us,the flowers, the trees, a glorious sunset, a babbling brook, the verdure of spring, the vast whiteness of newly fallen snow. Does not a crystal clear lake surrounded by wooded hills fill you with joy and faith in your Creator? Did you ever see beauty in a storm, when the flowers lifted their heads to quaff the moisture sent from heaven, and a glorious rainbow appeared on the horizon to remind us of God's promise? I have seen beauty in a happy home where peace and harmony reign. I have found joy in a beautiful friendship, in a splendid character, in music, a fine picture or a good book. There is beauty in the tiniest, most insignificant thing around us. An incident in the life of Alice Freeman Palmer, gives us the key to happiness. "One July morning I took an early train. It was a day that gave promise of being very, very hot, even in the country, and what in the city! When I reached my destination I found a great many girls in the room, but more babies than girls, it seemed. Each girl was holding one, and there were a few to spare. 'Now,' I said, 'what shall I talk to you about this morning, girls?' 'Talk about life,' said one girl. Imagine! 'I am afraid that is too big a subject for such a short time,' I said. "Then up spoke a small, pale-faced, heavy-eyed child, with a great fat baby on her knee, 'Tell us how to be happy.' The tears rushed to my eyes, and a lump came in my throat. Happy in such surroundings as those in which, no doubt, she lived; perhaps dirty and foul-smelling! Happy, with burdens too heavy to be borne! All this flashed through my mind while the rest took up the word and echoed, 'Yes, tell us how to be happy.' "Well, I said, 'I will give you my three rules for being happy; but mind, you must all promise to keep them for a week, and not skip a single day, for they won't work if you skip one single day.' So they all faithfully and solemnly promised that they wouldn't skip a single day. "The first rule is that you will commit something to memory every day, something good. It needn't be much, three or four words will do, just a pretty bit of a poem, or a Bible verse. Do you understand? I was so afraid they wouldn't, but one little girl with flashing black eyes, jumped up from the corner of the room and cried, 'I know; you want us to learn something we'd be glad enough to remember if we went blind.' "That's it exactly,' I said. 'Something you would like to remember if you went blind.' And they all promised that they would, and not skip a single day. "The second rule is; Look for something pretty every day; and don't skip a day or it won't work. A leaf, a flower, a cloud—you can all find something. Isn't there a park somewhere near here that you can all walk to?' (Yes, there was one.) 'And stop long enough before the pretty thing that you have spied to say, "Isn't it beautiful." Drink in every detail, and see the loveliness all through. Can you do it?' They promised to a girl. "My third rule is—now, mind, don't skip a day.—Do something for somebody every day.' 'Oh, that's easy!' they said, though I thought it would be the hardest thing of all. Just think, that is what those children said, 'Oh, that's easy! Don't we have to tend babies and run errands every day, and isn't that doing something for somebody?' 'Yes,' I answered them, 'it is.' "At the end of the week, the day being hotter than the last, if possible, I was wending my way along a very narrow street, when suddenly I was literally grabbed by the arm, and a little voice said, 'I done it!' 'Did what?' I exclaimed, looking down and seeing at my side a tiny girl with the proverbial fat baby asleep in her arms. Now I will admit that it was awfully stupid of me not to know, but my thoughts were far away, and I actually did not know what she was talking about. "What you told us to, and I never skipped a day, neither,' replied the child in a rather hurt tone. 'Oh,' I said, 'now I know what you mean. Put down the baby and let's talk about it.' So down on the sidewalk she deposited the sleeping infant, and she and I stood over it and talked. " 'Well,' she said, 'I never skipped a day, but it was awful hard. It was all right when I could go to the park, but one day, it rained and rained, and the baby had a cold, and I just couldn't go out, and I thought sure I was going to skip, and I was standin' at the window 'most cryin', and I saw'—her little face brightened up with a radiant smile—'I saw a sparrow takin' a bath in the gutter that goes round the top of the house, and he had on a black necktie, and he was handsome!' It was the first time I had heard an English sparrow called handsome, but I tell you it wasn't laughable a bit—no, not a bit. "And then, there was another day,' she went on, 'and I thought I should have to skip it sure. There wasn't another thing to look at in the house. The baby was sick, and I couldn't go out, and I was feelin' terrible, when'—here she caught me by both hands, and the most radiant look came to her face—'I saw the baby's hair!' 'Saw the baby's hair!' I echoed. 'Yes, a little bit of sun came in the window, and I saw his hair, and I'll never be lonesome any more.' And catching up the baby from the sidewalk, she said, 'See!' and I, too, saw the baby's hair. 'Isn't it beautiful?' she asked. 'Yes, it is beautiful,' I answered. You have heard of artists raving over Titian hair. Well, as the sun played on this baby's hair, there were the browns, the reds, the golds, which make up the Titian hair. Yes, it was truly beautiful. 'Now, shall we go on?' I said, taking the heavy baby from her. "The room was literally packed this time; ten times as many girls and as many babies as your mind will conceive of. I wish you could have listened with me to the experiences of those little ones. Laughter and tears were so commingled that I don't know which had the mastery." We, too, may cultivate happiness if we only look for the beauty around us, in our surroundings, in our friendships and in our work. There is beauty in all things! "Seek and ye shall find," for "Man is that he might have joy."