8
EDITORIAL
Vacation
"Fit, square and polish thyself for the builders will have need of thee." For most people July and August sees a cessation of many of the activities that usually occupy attention during the other ten months of the year. The summer vacation offers an opportunity for change, rest, travel, reading and other leisure time pursuits. This lull gives a period when one may fit, square and polish herself for the activities that will await her doing after the pause in the routine has passed and the regular activities are resumed. Some need complete rest so strenuous has been their life. Some need only a change to feel rejuvenated. All should get out in the sunshine and let nature rebuild their worn tissues and restore their depleted energy. Fortunate are they who have an outdoor hobby, a garden, golf, tennis or a walking urge. Some are hungry for intellectual food and will find complete enjoyment under a tree, on a shady porch or by a canyon stream reading a loved book. Many of our members at this time read books that will bear on the Relief Society lessons for next season. They will be sources of inspiration because of the background they have for the lesson work. An enriched mind gives new vision and an added charm. Some take summer courses at colleges or universities and find life fuller of interest because of the development received during even this short period of study. The University of Idaho has for years given delightful summer camps where women assemble from far and near for an enjoyable period of rest, recreation, and educational uplift. Calls are constantly sounding. Only those who steadily and persistently think, study and safeguard their health are ready. Through physical and mental change one stores energy that will give added grace to the work that will later demand attention. It is a lovely thing for people during this period of relaxation to realize that resting and playing will fit them for their future activities. Ever before them should be the thought, I must fit, square and polish myself for the builder will have need of me.
In the rush and multiplicity of things that demand our attention we are losing many of the values that a previous generation enjoyed. They had time to be more neighborly than do we. They enjoyed more home recreation?they had to make their own pleasures. They enjoyed more hours of friendly contact. Part of our vacation could profitably be spent in strengthening the ties of friendship, enjoying hours of comradeship with our friends of former years. A friend of mine sets aside an afternoon a week that she devotes to visiting old friends especially those who are ill or in any kind of trouble. "Most luxuries we purchase with money. Fellowship is one of the luxuries we can purchase only with time. Should we not use a generous portion of it for that purpose?"