(Music—Floods in) The Greatest Gift By Estelle Webb Thomas Y mother has lived for sevenM ty-one years. She is not merely seventy-one years old —plenty of people have attained to that dignity—but she has actually lived every day for seventy-one years. And that is a record. And Old Age, searching among the chimney corners and easy chairs and the dozing dreamers of dear-dead-daysbeyond-recall, has never found her. And here is the why of it: When she was born there was the usual consultation of the fairies, gathered to bestow their gifts upon the little stranger, and bounteously they bestowed them. Health, beauty, love, wit—all the lovely graces the fairies can give when they will and the stars are propitious—but alas! As usual, too, there was the wicked, unbidden pixie who turned up at the last end of the party screaming maledictions and making trouble, "She'll have a hard row to hoe!" she shouted, before the eleventh fairy had fairly got the words, "countless friends" out of her mouth. "Her life will be one long series of ups and downs, and work without reward!" "She will—'" But here the thirteenth fairy was discovered, asleep in a corner and routed out to save the day. She stared wildly at the wall for inspiration. The calendar caught her eye. "Since she is Friday's child she'll be loving and giving," she intoned rapidly, "and thus her service will be its own reward!" The fairy paused, she could think of nothing more. But the others still looked at her with silent expectancy. It was not enough. "She shall savor to its last drop, every day of her life!" Still they watched her, and with a deep sigh the thirteenth fairy made the supreme sacrifice. She took from her shoulders her one treasured possession and placed it gently about the sleeping child. And as she did so, she murmured, "To you, dear child, I bequeath this invisible cloak—A sense of humor. Wear it always as a shield against the vicissitudes of life. By its magic, tears will be turned into laughter, hardships into happiness, and Life itself, into a Great Adventure!" The fairies turned away, satisfied. The final gift had taken all the sting from the evil fairy's curse.