Developing Utah Payrolls Through Quality Products Refinery workers, railroad men, truck drivers, service station attendants... With approximately 5000 dependents.... Earn their livelihood in the production and distribution of Pep 88 gasoline and Vico motor oil. This industry has grown to its present importance as a Utah payroll builder through the quality of its products. And Vico in your car. +48 And it is on the basis of quality that we invite you to use Pep 88 Vico MOTOR OIL Just stop for gasoline and oil at this sign Manufactured and Guaranteed by Utah Oil Refining Company A NEW EUREKA MOTOR-DRIVEN BRUSH LIGHT—EASY TO HANDLE AGREEABLY QUIET This sensational new Eureka with motordriven brush is designed to meet the requirements of those who desire a motordriven brush but recognize the necessity of "High Vacuum" (powerful suction) for the thorough removal of embedded dirt., Unnecessary weight and awkward size have been carefully avoided. It is quiet—agreeably quiet. The demonstration! It is spectacular — sensational — thrilling. Embedded soda fairly 'boils'? From the rug. Sand dances— how it dances! Surface litter — lint, hair and threads —- are instantly removed by its motordriven brush. This new Eureka cleans faster—cleans better. $5.00 Down—Balance on Easy Terms Phone for Demonstration Eureka vacuum Cleaner Co. T Lake City, Utah SHIRTS LAUNDERED As "He" likes them! Royal DeLuxe Semi Starch Full Starch Medium Starch No Starch Summer Suits Laundered Silk Shirts washed and ironed by hand, best of materials used Shirts Cash and Carry 10c each at 22 E. 2 So. And 14% Main St. And 625 So. State St. ROYAL LAUNDRY Was. 2624 625 So. State St. Styles When Buytng Mention Relief Society Magasine 2 177 East Browlwey a total of some 1500 individuals Phone Wasatch 4764 UTAH SUGAR UTAH FRUITS A PERFECT combination for those delicious home-made preserves which will taste oh so good, next winter. Summer Days can be made very pleasant, or you can suffer from the heat. It depends on how well you have mastered the art of living. Your printing order, can be filled in a half-hearted' way, and the result be commonplace, or you can let us turn it out for you. The Deseret News Press PIONEER PRINTERS, BINDERS, RULERS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine