The Portal of Life By Ada Hurst Brown ISS GEBERT of Los M Angeles, and myself left Blanding in Miss Gebert's car, one July morning at seven o'clock, and rode for miles through cedar-covered canyons over switchbacks and dugways by the dozen. Then we began a steady climb to the top of the Elk Ridge, through pine and birch, frightening whitefaced calves that ran from the road with waving tails, to turn and stare at us from a safe distance. From the flat-topped Elk we still climbed up and up between the Bears' Ears, remarkable huge twin formations of red sandstone, partially covered with pine and birch. At the top of this pass a sign informed us that we were 10,000 feet above sea level. Now we began one of the most spectacular descents imaginable. The road turns abruptly downward, and the vegetation is entirely different, being scrub pine and cedars. My companion's itinerary from which I read while she gave her full attention to driving, called this "'the finest view in the world," and we paused to look and point out places of interest. We could see a hundred and fifty miles in three directions. In the distant west and south were visible Bryce Canyon, Navajo Mountain of Arizona, Monument Valley, and the famous Black Mesa. To the east were clearly visible mountains near Grand Junction, Colorado. (On our return we were to see this view with a gorgeous sunset background. My companion said that while she had seen all the United States and several other countries, she had never seen anything to equal that view.) THE EDWIN, OR OWACHOMO BRIDGE 508 WE dropped swiftly now onto a cedar-covered mesa, and a short ride brought us to the rim of the canyon in which the Edwin bridge is located. It was then that an interesting discovery burst upon me: I had been accustomed to going up into canyons; here we went down into them. The Edwin is called the "woman's bridge" because of its comparatively delicate appearance, and it is beautiful; but my taste must be masculine, for my greatest thrill came at sight of the massive Augusta. We stopped a short time in the cool shade of the Edwin, and then took off on the three-mile hike necessary to reach the Sipapu, or Augusta bridge. That is, we had been told it was three miles, but we felt quite sure it was at least six. By the time we reached White Canyon, we had emptied our canteen, the heat had blistered both my heels, and given Miss Gebert a slight sunburn below her checked shorts. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE For a mile or so we had followed along the trail the tracks of some doglike animal, clearly visible in a crust caused from a recent shower. It was intensely quiet, and we saw no other sign of life but ants and a few big flies that flew viciously about our faces.... O words of mine can adequately describe the scene that burst upon us as we clambered over rocks down to where the full majesty of White Canyon stood revealed, with the top of the great Augusta far below us. I never expect to see anything which will inspire in me more awe and reverence than did that monstrous hole in the ground, and I truly understand why the Hopis named it Sipapu, which means to them, "The Portal of Life." Huge, magnificent, colossal—all such adjectives fail to describe it. Silent, so silent one can almost hear the hum of the universe, it stands as it has stood for centuries, one of the THE AUGUSTA, OR SIPAPU BRIDGE (Note figures on top. It is necessary to climb ladders in several places to reach the top) THE PORTAL OF LIFE most breath-taking sights of our world. I had a queer feeling as though I were floating there in the air high' above the bottom of the canyon, and I could easily imagine why the Hopis had believed that here spirits were ushered into this life, and that it was also here they left to be purified before entering the sky to become rain gods. Leaving the rim of the canyon we climbed straight down a ladder made of tree-trunks, scaling the white rocks which have given the canyon its name, along a ledge to one of the accessible cliff dwellings that hang here and there along the steep canyon walls. Some of them are in places that it looks as if only a bird could reach, and one can only speculate as to how those ancient people came and went. ' Down, down, down, we clambered until the sides of the canyon towered almost out of sight above us; then into the very bottom of the canyon and under the Augusta bridge, which made a grateful shade. We found 509 water in a spring, and rested while we listened to the mysterious soughing like a soft breeze through trees, caused by I don't know what, and which probably helped to give the bridge its name. Now the top of the Sipapu towered high above us, two hundred and twenty-two feet to be exact—high enough to clear the spires of the Salt Lake Temple. It has a span of two hundred and sixty-five feet, a width of thirty feet, and a thickness of fifty feet at the top. The bridge is formed of red sandstone, streaked with black. It is situated just in front of the junction of the two canyons which run together to form White Canyon and was made, geologists tell us, by a swirl of water which washed away the softer stone, and after centuries left the bridge high and dry as it is now. But whatever the natural explanation, I like best the mysterious one the Hopis had for it, "The Portal of Life."