Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary Uintah Stake OR the past year, the Uintah Stake Relief Society has tried to create a greater desire among the women to read the Scriptures. There is abundant proof that the efforts are bearing fruit. A class in Bible study, under the direction of the Seminary teacher, is conducted. On February 8, the Stake Relief Society Board presented a pageant, "The Bible Speaks.'' The author, Mrs. Evelyn Maeser Crandall, personally directed the splendid production. The Stake was especially grateful to Sister Crandall, who is the only surviving daughter of Dr. Karl G. Maeser. It is not difficult to trace, in the beautiful life of Sister Crandall, the wonderful influence of her gifted father. The pageant was an inspiration. Many wonderful characters of the Old Testament were portrayed. Beginning with the Book of Genesis, coming in continuity down to the time of Christ, the magnificent characters of Old Testament history were portrayed. The cast included almost one hundred people, with a chorus of twenty-five participating. The great personal interest of those who took part in this presentation was expressed, as they seemed to imbibe the spirit of the fine characters represented. The picture below is a fine representation of the ensemble. San Francisco Stake AN FRANCISCO is one of our young Stakes and has all the enthusiasm of youth. The Relief Society conceived the plan of raising 2 a SE 2 + ca MS Ae ee Palak ae sce 3. UINTAH STAKE NOTES FROM THE FIELD funds for the new Stake House, and the happy event was presented on March 17th, the anniversary of Relief Society. The sewing supervisor was chairman of the drive for funds. She purchased brown denim, and made a number of little shoes. Each shoe was accompanied by a typed message explaining the purpose. A very substantial contribution followed this unique method of soliciting funds. Another activity of this enterprising Stake has found expression in the Project work. A very beautiful example and concrete evidence of the effect of this work among the - women of the organization was demonstrated in a beautiful book sent to the general office by Sister Orel Elder, Project Leader of the Stake. The book was compiled by Sister Jennie Richards, Project Leader of the Mission Ward. It really demonstrated a remarkable fund of information in reference to the Old Testament, and the subject matter was beautifully expressed in epic form by Sister Richards. The references and titles for each month's study were given in advance. The women were then asked to read carefully and summarize the contents of the individual Books, pointing out the inspirational messages of each particular piece of literature. The entire contents of the Old Testament was covered in the book. It was illustrated with color pictures, which added much to the attractiveness. The book was dedicated by Sister Richards to her grandchildren, and certainly was a valuable record for them to possess. This fine demonstration, while perhaps one of the outstanding features, was typical of what has been accomplished through the enterprising spirit of Relief Society women, 511 Bear River Stake ANOTHER demonstration of the effect of Bible reading comes to us from Bear River Stake. This was used in a very beautiful teachers' leaflet, the opening paragraph of which was: "In times past millions have sought solace from care and discouragement, and have found hope, and 'the peace that passeth understanding' from the Book of Books—the Bible." Passages from Scripture, demonstrating the truth of this, followed. The material was wonderfully well chosen, and demonstrated the fact that the Hebrew stories are woven from the fabric of life and have a universal appeal. Their Project also included special attention to Mothers of the Bible. To quote further: "In no other history can there be found so many stories of beautiful mothers as are to be found in the Bible. The singular beauty of the Hebrew women, and the natural warmth of their affections, together with their sublime faith and courage, have combined to 'throw gems of domestic loveliness over the pages of the Bible. From Eve to Mary the Bible presents pictures of womanly beauty and virtue that are unsurpassed and rarely paralleled elsewhere.' " Austrailian Mission— (Tasmanian District) ROM one of our most remote Relief Society organizations comes a delightful message from Sister Florence T. Rees, Mission Relief Society President. After having completed a tour of the Mission, which takes practically three months' time, she reports that the work of the Relief Society is progressing most satisfactorily. In this particular branch the young women are a great asset and participate actively in the work of the Relief Society. 512 One particular sister, however, should receive special attention as her life was most unusual. Sister Alva Eva Lennard's parents were among the early settlers in Australia. A desire for religious freedom prompted their emigration to this distant country. Naturally they found a very great change from what they had expected, and times were hard. Sister Lennard's grandfather was a school master, and the hard labor necessary in a new country was very difficult for him, and he did not live long after arriving. Sister Lennard's grandmother and her mother had the full experience of the pioneer woman with all of its test of courage, faith and strength to meet the problems and surmount the difficulties. Sister Lennard was born in Kapunda, South Australia, and went to live in Adelaide with her parents when eighteen years of age, at which time she began the study of dressmaking, in which she achieved great success, both as a designer and sewer. She was very successful in this business until the time of her marriage. Her husband was not strong, and died, leaving her with three small children to rear and educate. A woman of unusual talent, she soon turned her art of designing to good account, and her services were sought by some of the leading firms in Adelaide. She also received a diploma from London for her excellent cutting. While designing and sewing was her real vocation, she was very fond of music, and became an accomplished singer, which talent she used most freely for Church service. She was deeply impressed with the truth of the Gospel, and became prominent in Church work in Australia. She was President of the Relief Society for more than twelve years, during which time she achieved RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE an enviable reputation far and wide for her sympathy and generosity. She conducted her business until past the age of 65, after which she devoted her time to her Church work. Her services were very greatly in evidence during the depression years. Among other accomplishments that are listed is her skill as a cook, and her friends were witness to her delightful talent in this particular. Her comfortable home was always open to her friends. She set a high standard for herself, and helped others to overcome the petty things of life. Her watchwords were: "Never pity yourself. Be a hard task-master to yourself and ALVA E. LENNARD NOTES FROM THE FIELD lenient to others." She was. Still young in spirit and in looks at the time of her passing at 73 years of age. A friend, in writing of her said, "Sister Lennard will be sadly missed, not only in Adelaide, but in the surrounding country, for she was a true friend to many people." Northern States Mission [NX the very splendid Magazine campaign which was conducted last season, some of the agents were asked to give the methods used for their very successful work. The following report came from Sister Marie Meyer, of the Milwaukee District of the Northern States Mis- - sion. "The Magazine Agent first of all must put her heart and soul into - the work, and have a personal interest in every sister in her branch. She must be humble enough not to rely on her own knowledge, but to seek the guidance of our Heavenly Father in prayer, that she may approach everyone in the right spirit and manner; she should also understand the financial condition of the sisters, as it would be very foolish and unwise to ask one to spend a dollar for the Relief Society Magazine when she has not money to buy bread. Here she must find ways and means to raise money by putting on a play or some kind of entertainment. Perhaps taking up a collection from those who are able to spend a few cents to help make someone happy. The three qualities that every agent should have are, humility, tolerance and a heart full of love and charity. For me there is nothing better than the organization of Relief Society, as it helps those who are unfortunate and in distress. Nothing is better to cheer them up and help lift their burdens than the Relief Society Magazine. It also enriches their lives, shows them the best way possible to secure new hope 513 and happiness, not only for one day but for every day in the year. The Magazine, this little gift of cheer, can be purchased for less than nine cents a month. I feel it is the duty of every Magazine Agent to help the sisters realize what a great messenger of love this Magazine can be made in the home. I made a personal visit to every sister in her home, and in this way made new friends for myself and for the Relief Society Magazine." St. George Stake NOTHER thrilling report of activity in behalf of the Magazine came from the St. George Stake. From Sister Elizabeth L. Cox, Magazine Agent for the Stake, came the story of what she accomplished in one of the small Wards of the Stake. To quote Sister Cox, "Last year members of the Stake Board visited the outlying Wards. We found most distressing conditions in many places, and this among people who had formerly been independent. They were discouraged to a point of indifference. We found one particular Ward where there was just one Relief Society Magazine for a membership of twenty. However, conditions were such that we could readily understand the reason for this. This one Magazine was thoroughly read and passed around for the others to use in the lesson preparation. However, we could only say we were glad that thev had this one Magazine, and they should get all out of it they could. The visit of the Sisters seemed to kindle anew the spirit of the organization. A party was put on, at which food was sold and the amount realized was enough to cover eighteen subscriptions. Those who were able then added a dime a piece until the 100% was realized, so we know that one hundred per cent can be realized ~ even in the midst of adversity."