The courage to nobly dream,: Lesson Department (For First Week in October) THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson I Curist's Ministry Foretotp By THE PROPHETS Helpful References In the Old Testament: Deuteronomy 18:15, 18, 19 (compare 3 Nephi 20:23); Isaiah 11:1-5, 10 (See Doctrine & Covenants 113: 1-6); 5:2; compare Matthew 2: 4-6 and John 7:42. In the Book of Mormon: 1 Nephi 1:19; 10:4-11; 11:13-33; Mosiah 16:6, 7; Helaman 14:1-28; 3 Nephi 1:10-21. Consult index of Book of Mormon, current edition, under the title of Christ for numerous other references. In the Pearl of Great Price: Moses 5:6-8; 6:57; 7:54-56. Abraham 3:22-27. Taumage, Jesus the Christ, Chapter 1. Scriptures Foretold Coming of a Redeemer. A few years ago a noted scholar, in the hearing of the writer, made an assertion to the effect that not one passage of scripture in the Old Testament refers to the ministry of the Christ among men. In fact, it has become almost an axiom among certain critics, that the prophets made few or no predictions with reference to the future but rather "always spoke out of a definite historical situation to the present needs of the people among whom they lived." But the revelations of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph make exceedingly plain the declaration that such teaching is not true, especially with reference to the ministry of Christ. It seems to us that in the providences of God the coming advent of the Messiah was too important an event in the plan of salvation not to be made known to the children of men. The Book of Deuteronomy records, 'The Lord thy God will raise up unto thee a prophet from the midst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me; unto him ye shall hearken." (18:15, see also verses 18 and 19.) The Church teaches that this scripture refers to the then future advent of the Christ and that Moses, the great law-giver, was the author of it. (3 Nephi 20: 23.) Micah, the prophet, who lived about 725 B. C., predicted the place of the Messiah's birth. (5:3). The Gospel of Matthew cites this prophecy with approval; and Herod, the King, was told that Christ would be born "in Bethlehem of Judea." (Matthew 2:4-6). Buc great as these prophecies are, those of Isaiah are greater. The distinguished contemporary of Micah saw with astonishing clearness the work and suffering of the Redeemer among men. Who can forget His ministry as described in the matchless English of the authorized version in Isaiah 53. "He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted."' Handel, the composer, caught the spirit of this scripture 518 in his, the greatest of all oratorios, the Messiah. 2. Nephites Foresaw Christ's Coming in the Flesh. The Nephite scripture is even more explicit with reference to the coming of the Christ than is the Old Testament. When Nephi spoke of the ministry of his father, Lehi, among the Jews, prior to his leaving Jerusalem, he stated that he "manifested plainly of the coming of a Messiah, and also the redemption of the world." (Nephi 1:19). In one of the more remarkable chapters of the Book of Mormon, Nephi records some of the important facts of the Savior's ministry as predicted by Lehi, including the time of His appearance. 'Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem, a prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews—even a Messiah, or, in other words, a Savior of the world. And he spake concerning the prophets, how great a number had testified of these things, concerning this Messiah, of whom he had spoken, or this Redeemer of the world." Lehi spoke of the preparatory work of John the Baptist, his baptizing the Messiah, the preaching of the latter to the Jews, His death, resurrection, and subsequent manifestation to the Gentiles (1 Nephi 10: 4-11). In like manner other Nephite prophets spoke of the ministry and work of the Christ. Abinadi, Samuel the Lamanite, and Nephi, the son of Helaman, gave marvelous testimony to the events incident to the Savior's birth, ministry and death. The testimony of the Book of Mormon makes clear the truth that the central theme of the prophets, the one great thing that gave meaning to their testimony, was the advent and ministry of the Savior of the world.  . Early Patriarchs Foretold Christ's Coming. The Pearl of Great Price, too, bears eloquent testimony to the coming of the Savior. When Adam, the great Patriarch of the race, was asked by an angel why he offered sacrifice, he replied, "I know not, save the Lord commanded me." The angel then explained, "This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth." (See Moses 5:6-8). It is thus seen that the human race was not denied, even from the earliest times, a knowledge of the coming of a Redeemer. Enoch bore explicit testimony of this when he spoke of "Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge, who shall come in the meridian of time." (Moses 6:57.) This great preacher was permitted by the Lord to see into the future and to behold in vision the Christ lifted up on the cross, and the great disturbances of the earth incident thereto. (Moses 7:54-56). Abraham adds his witness to the coming of the Redeemer. The Lord showed him the intelligences organized even before the world was, and also the choice of the Savior. (Abraham 3:22-28). Thus we see in the Old Testament, the Book of Mormon, and the Pearl of Great Price a great three-fold witness to the coming ministry of the Christ. Questions 1. Can you cite any passages from the Old Testament pointing to the advent of the Redeemer other than those given in the lesson? 2. How do you account for the fact that the Book of Mormon is, in many respects, much clearer and more explicit in predicting the advent of Christ than is the Old Testament? LESSON DEPARTMENT Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.) 1. Provide a suitable musical selection from Handel's oratorio, The Messiah. Have the singer, if possible, say a few words about it, pointing out how Christ's ministry influenced Handel while he was composing it. It is suggested that some sister with musical talents be assigned this part of the lesson. If the selection from the oratorio is unobtainable, select a suitable hymn. 2. Investigate the use made in the Gospel of Matthew of Isaiah's prophecies concerning the Messiah. It is suggested that a good reference Bible be used, and the references to 519 Isaiah be noted and studied. As examples, compare Matthew 8:17 with Isaiah 53:4; and Matthew 12: 18-20 with Isaiah 42:1-3. Compare the Gospel writer's love of Isaiah with Nephi's love of him. (See 2 Nephi 25:5.) 3. What can you say concerning the nature of the religious teaching in a good Nephite family? (Consult 2 Nephi 25:23-30; Doctrine & Covenants 84:18-27). 4, Compare the quotation in Matthew 2:15 with Hosea 11:1 and Exodus 4:22, 23. Study the context of the quotation in Hosea carefully and determine if Matthew was literally correct in attributing the coming of Jesus from Egypt as a fulfillment of Hosea's words. TEACHER'S TOPIC TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR OCTOBER THE PARABLES OF JESUS Introduction HE Parables constitute the larger part of Christ's recorded teaching. They contain the fundamental principles and show the love, justice, and compassion that characterized His mission. Because of their great beauty and the spiritual truths they contain they will be taken as a message to the homes of our people'by our Visiting Teachers. What is a Parable? "In a restricted sense, it is the name given to a connected narrative, whether of events in human life or of a process in nature, by which some great spiritual truth is illustrated or enforced." "It is an earthly story with a heavenly meaning." s "A parable is a narration of well known scenes or events in human life and its surroundings for the purposes of giving them a moral or religious application." "Tn a parable there is nothing contrary to the truth of nature and to life. If there is, then it is no parable." Christ used parables to illustrate the truths he wished to teach. They were presented in the form and image of familiar things, common in the world of nature and human experience. They deal with the ideas of the simple people and the incidents and situations with which they were familiar. He had no mysteries to teach, it was His wish that all, even the humble and unlearned should understand Him. 520 THE LOST SHEEP Luke 15:1-7. "Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. "And he spake this parable unto them, saying, "What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and niné in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it? "And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh home he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost. "T say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance." Palestine was a pastoral country. Any story in regard to sheep would be immediately understood and appreciated. The country was rough and dangerous, the paths winding and uncertain. There were great dangers to sheep that strayed away. When the sheep became lost the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE anxious shepherd searched diligently until it was found. He took it up tenderly on his shoulders and carried it home. It needed his extra protection on account of the experiences through which it had passed. He called the other shepherds together, told them of his joy, related the trouble he had and how he sought everywhere for the sheep that was lost. There are three points in the application of this parable. First, the sad fate of the sheep that goes astray and is lost. Second, the Shepherd's love and care for the sheep and the care he takes to find it. Third. His joy at finding it. Just as a shepherd cares for every one in his flock and exerts himself to save a lost sheep, so does Christ care for the welfare of his children individually, and has joy in their recovery and safety. This joy gives hope to the sinner. The figure of the Good Shepherd has been exceedingly loved in the Church and has frequently been the subject of literature and art thrqughout the centuries. We might ask ourselves, What are our obligations to those who have made mistakes, and how truly do we forgive the repentant lost one?.: WORK AND BUSINESS A series of lessons for those who desire to use them on the second Tuesday of each month will be published in the Magazine. However, it'is understood that these are to be used only when there is not sewing or other work to be done for the, needy in this period. Color in the Home Taken from the Utah State Agricultural College Extension Service, Bulletin M. S. No. 123. 11-2-33. "To catch enough beauty and charm in our surroundings that members of the household will find gladness and contentment within its shelter."—Missouri Home Creed. Color is one of the magic means of creating that beauty. Without it the world would be void of charm. LESSON DEPARTMENT While comfort and convenience are perhaps the first things to plan for in the home, the next thing of importance to stress is beauty, and sincere beauty in a home calls for suitable use of color in every object. A complete color plan should be made before beginning work on a room, so that the whole may be visualized before work is begun on any part of the unit. It is not uncommon for people to fear color and little wonder when. One thinks of the crimes against harmony that must be frequently faced. Color is truly the home decorators strongest ally; yet, it too frequently becomes her strongest bugaboo. Color may lend a doleful atmosphere, a bizaare effect to the whole room; yet, it may be used so as to produce a room pleasingly restful and inviting. To avoid tragic color effects in decorating; those that over-stimulate, even irritate; those so glum as to be depressing, to produce other trying conditions, a knowledge of few simple facts and rules is essential. Helpful suggestions are to be found in Handicraft for Every Woman. Lesson I Color in the Home References. Basic Principles of Art, Part 2, C. Pages 24-26, 58-59, Handicraft for Every Woman. AY particular attention to difP ferences in Primary colors of light and the Primary colors of pigment, and how you would apply this knowledge to the beautifying of vour home. Pigment colors are the 521 ones we use in paint, dye and calcimine. Following is an interesting demonstration to be given at meeting to make the women conversant with color. Use either commercial dye (3 pkgs, one red, one yellow, one blue) or use calcimine 5 cents worth of red, of yellow and of blue. Be sure to ask for pure primary colors. With either medium prepare them at home. A number of small cups are neces- 'sary. With the dye use white cloth as your subject, with calcimine use white type paper cut in strips. First divide each color into three. Dilute one 14, one 4 and the other undiluted. This gives you three intensities; a tint, a stronger color and a hue. Make your sample by dipping in your cloth or paper and pin up to dry. Now mix a red tint and a blue tint-orchid. A red tint and yellow tint—orange tint. Continue until you have crossed all your tints. Cross your stronger colors, then, your hues. Now combine all three primary tints, etc. To get your grays. From this knowledge you can now experiment intelligently and produce any color desired. Let the women come up and play with the colors. It's a great deal of fun. After you have mixed all the colors you care to, pick out the most beautiful samples. Then arrange them for a study of harmony and a study of contrast. Suggest that the women go home and dye some rags for rugs and modify the commercial calcimine to their own taste. They will enjoy their rooms much more if a little individuality is in them. Note: Write your State Agricultural College Extension Division for suggestions. LITERATURE (For Third Week in October) Lesson I ALICE FREEMAN PALMER Introduction "Everybody reads biography today." This sentence is taken from a magazine called "Modern Literature." In the late nineties the essay was pushed from the drawing-room table and the novel took its place. Now the novel has been pushed to one side and biography has threatened to take its place. In the best selling lists, biography and fiction run side by side. This change has come about because the processes of life have become so complex and the cry for leadership so insistent that stories of courage and notable achievement are demanded. This demand has been met in a measure by the writings of the modern biographer. Then, too, biography has adopted the technique of the novel; thereby greatly increasing its vogue and effectiveness. As a result we have a stream of literary biography that has flowed on for many years, and is yet at high tide. To namea few who have achieved distinction in this field we call to mind Andre Maurois of France, Lytton Strachey of England, Emil Ludwig of Germany, Henrik William Van Loon of Holland, and Van Wyck Brooks of the United States. It has been said on good authority that the test of highest merit in a prose writer is that he can lend interest to anything he writes. A drama that is not entertaining fails. So it is with the novel and the literary biography. They must be interesting. In this respect the literary biographers have generally succeeded. What they write is nearly always marked by great selective power. They do not use material that is dull and boring. Interest is maintained in many ways. Sometimes, as in the case of Rembrandt, the painter, it is brought about by presenting a personality whose very existence seems to disturb sufficiently to cause unexpected and alluring things to happen. Sometimes it results from narrating a life that can only be interpreted by carrying with it the whole sweep of the history of the time. Such is true of the life of Abraham Lincoln and other great pioneers. It is notably true in the case of both Joseph Smith and Brigham Young. Consequently it is reasonable to suppose that no adequate biography of King Albert of Belgium could be written without throwing further light on the World War. Added to the ability to select what is of interest comes the power to relate it in a concise and attractive manner, or to borrow the words of another, it must be recorded "with beauty of substance and beauty of form." Many years ago Thomas Carlyle told us that '"'a well written life is as rare as a well lived one." It is safe to say that Carlyle would have great satisfaction in reading some of the modern biographies. A recent article on literary biographies, speaking of the method employed, tells LESSON DEPARTMENT us that the new biographer must become thoroughly at home in the world he is seeking to portray. 'To this end "he devours all the material on the subject; letters, diaries, deeds, official. Records, histories of the period, other biographies, the files of old newspapers, and possibly he visits the scene of important events in the career of the subject of his biography. "All of this material must be carefully weighed and sifted, for the sincere biographer, like the honest portrait painter, must tell the truth as he sees it. Blind hero-worship does not make a good biography, nor the attempt to belittle the hero through sensational gossip. The honest biographer avoids both these pitfalls in his quest for the real man. "When the biographer has selected and absorbed his material, then he is ready to write his biography. He can picture for the reader the man he now feels he knows intimately. Sure of his material, he can write vividly and freely." The new biography of Robert E. Lee which has drawn so much praise from critics meets the standards of a good biography. Its author, Douglas Southall Freeman, is described as "thorough, patient, honest, with a true gift for research. He was nineteen years preparing the biography. In his patient research for material he went to sources not before consulted in Lee biographies; manuscripts of old Southern families, Lee's unpublished military papers, the records of the Bureau of Engineers, and the United States Muilitary Academy." Through his work we are told we may "glimpse the shining spirit of the man." Gamaliel Bradford, who is described as one of the keenest and most renowned of American bio- 523 graphers, when asked to define biography said: "Biography is not a cold, bare, remote study of strange creatures and impossible events. It is simply a study of human nature, of beings who lived and died and suffered and achieved, just like you and me.... Biography is the study of human beings, what they have been, what they are, what they may be, and above all, what they can do." The Life of Alice Freeman Palmer We are told we may "glimpse the shining spirit of the man" in the new biography of Robert E. Lee. That is precisely what George Herbert Palmer is seeking to have us do in the case of his gifted wife, Alice Freeman Palmer. His biography is a study of personality. Mr. Palmer tells us that at her death he received nearly 2,000 letters "from statesmen, school girls, clerks, lawyers, teachers, country wives, outcasts, millionaires, ministers, men of letters'"—to him largely an unknown company, "but alike in feeling the marvel of her personality and the loss her death had caused them." President Tucker _ said, "There is no other of our generation, with the possible exception of Phillips Brooks, who has stood to such a degree for these qualities in which we must all believe with unquenchable faith, if we are to do anything in this world." And President EIliot added, "To my mind this career is unmatched by that of any other American woman. Mrs. Palmer's life and labors are the best example thus far set before American womanhood." Yet, we are told, "She lived no longer than most of us. She had no early advantage of birth, physical vigor, or station. Half her years were passed in comparative poverty. During only nine did she 524 hold positions which could be called conspicuous..... Yet by personal power rather than by favoring circumstance this woman sent out an influence unique in kind and puzzling those on whom it fell.". Alice Elvira Freeman was born February 21, 1855, at Colesville, Broom County, New York. She was grateful that she had been born in the country, and later, when she contacted "the great town's harsh heart-wearying roar" she renewed herself by lying in green grass or walking by the bank of a favorite brook in deep woods. She passed part of her life near the Susquehanna River. "When I went a thousand miles westward to college in 1872," says she, "I bore remembrances of our magnificent river, its enormous width, strong 'currents, and terrible freshets."" Mr. Palmer is sure that the economic struggle of her early life had much to do with the development of Alice's mind and particularly with her fine attitude toward life. Both her maternal grandmother and her mother had been teachers. Her father farmed for some years, then suddenly made up his mind to study medecine. It is not entirely clear how the family got along in his absence, but they managed and later moved to Windsor, New York, where he became a country doctor. At Windsor, Alice showed a deep interest in her father's work, feeling keenly the suffering of the afflicted ones whom he served. Her elementary education had been desultory. She had picked up what she could in the schools of her native village, but now in Windsor she was to attend an academy. Alice entered in September, 1865. Now her education really began. All through her life she acknowledged her indebtedness. To the school and in 1901, a speaker at its semi-centenRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE nial celebration, she paid her mead of praise. When she was twelve, four schools of Broom County held a literary contest. Each school was to prepare a set of compositions. These were to be put in charge of a delegate for arrangements and for public reading. The other schools chose teachers as delegates; Windsor chose her. She carried off the prize on-all three counts for arrangement, for reading, and for her own composition. She was seventeen years of age when she left Windsor to attend college. She had concluded that the University of Michigan was the best place for a woman to study. However, selecting a university was not her only trouble. Her father felt that he could not give all of his children a college' education, and as his family consisted of three daughters and a son, the son should be the one to receive the training. Alice urged that if they would give her the opportunity she would in turn assist the other children. This promise she kept faithfully. When she reached Ann Arbor she found that her training at Windsor had not been adequate. How-. Ever, President James B. Angell, who had chatted with her, induced the faculty to try her for six weeks, for said he: "I was confident she would demonstrate her capacity to go on with her class. JI need only. Add that it was soon apparent to her instructors that my confidence was fully justified." In one of her letters written after her entrance into the University she says: 'My special studies this semester are Juvenal's satires, Calculus, and Astronomy, with all of which I am delighted." Once during her college course word from home told her of financial disappointments, so she made up her mind to do a little LESSON DEPARTMENT teaching to help herself. She went to the Ottowa High School in Illinois, and became its head. This was her first venture in teaching; she was not yet twenty years of age. The residents of Ottowa tried to induce her to teach the year following, but she told them politely that she must finish her college course. While at the University, President Angell had said she was an excellent scholar. She had to plan carefully to make ends meet, but she was deeply religious, a fact that accounts for her cheerfulness and never fading hope. In 1876 she was graduated from the University of Michigan. She did graduate work from time to time, although her thesis was never completed, her sister Stella's death interfering. In 1882 the University conferred on her the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. She was teaching at Saginaw, Michigan, where her family joined her, and her father continued to practice medicine. When Wellesley opened, its founder appealed to President Angell for teachers. A number of graduates from the University of Michigan had places on the faculty. President Angell had told them they should obtain Miss Freerman's service, so they offered her the head of the department of history, which she accepted. She attracted attention at once. The founder of Wellesley, Mr. Durant, often consulted her on administration matters. While teaching at Wellesley she had a hemorrhage of the lungs. Dr. Bowditch advised France, intimating that her condition was serious. She went to New. York and consulted Dr. Willard Parker, who, she wrote, "tells me I can live if I have char- 525 acter and courage enough. He made her feel how prodigal she was in the expenditure of energy. He sent her to the open air to exercise in breathing and prescribed food and care. She took to heart his advice, so that when eight years later she was examined, the lesion had entirely disappeared." On November fifteenth, Miss Freeman was appointed vice-president and acting-president for the year. Virtually she was president, as the health of her predecessor made her immediate withdrawal necessary. And so we have this struggling girl who at seventeen had entered the University of Michigan conditionally, receiving an appointment of professor of history at Wellesley at twenty-four, and at twenty-six becoming its president. Questions 1. How do you account for the popularity of modern biography? 2. From what field of literature has it copied its technique? 3. How can poverty, if not crushing, develop character? 4. Why did Miss Freeman select the University of Michigan, so far away from her home, as the place to do her college work? 5. Her home in New York State was on the Susquehanna River. How does that river connect with Latter-day Saint history? 6. May people generally receive refreshment through communing with nature? If so, what should they do? Note: For additional material consult the first six chapters of the "Life of Ailce Freeman Palmer," by George Herbert Palmer. SOCIAL SERVICE (For Fourth Week in October) Lesson I THe PREVENTION OF CRIME Text: Civic Sociology, Edward The greater part of crime could be prevented through a more general understanding of its causes and the proper guidance of youth. Analytical study reveals the fact that adult criminality usually has its origin in early childhood. But many adults have a false impression of crime. If they acquire their knowledge of crime through yellow journalism, sensational radio accounts, and similar forms of publicity they are apt to think of crime as the product of the moment and as related to the immediate act of the violator. This is a mistaken idea. Just as wholesome childhood leads to adult well-being, criminal tendencies almost invariably originate in early life. Although there is much truth in the impression that the gutter urchin of today is the criminal of tomorrow, a large percentage of delinquent children come from homes where better guidance could be expected. However, the prevention of crime is a problem which is restricted neither to guidance within the home nor to community agencies alone. It involves the combined efforts of both; they are inextricably bound together. Through recent statistical studies the emphasis on juvenile delinquency has been changed from punishment to prevention. And the interesting point is that the same agencies which have helped to rehabilitate children who have stepped aside are finding it possible to help the neglected child A. Ross; Chapter XII. To adjust to society before wrong doing occurs. Such experiments present a tremendously interesting challenge to past methods by revealing the possibility of crime prevention. But this necessitates a thorough understanding of the causes of crime. The present lesson is devoted to this end by developing the following points: 1. To acquire a knowledge of the causes of juvenile delinquency with an understanding of its relationship to later adult criminality. 2. To devise ways of social cooperation for the prevention of delinquency. 3. To understand the difference between the control of crime and the recharting of the life of the potential criminal in his early childhood. In order to understand the present lesson it is necessary to define delinquency. A delinquent child is one who is acted upon officially by police officers or court authorities. But many children who are not officially delinquent possess anti-social tendencies which later result in unlawful behavior. Therefore, in this lesson the term will be used in its larger meaning and include those who have delinquent tendencies. This larger interpretation is given so that the problem may be approached from as broad a standpoint as possible. All adult criminals do not have juvenile court records, but in almost every case the crime can LESSON DEPARTMENT be traced to some cause or tendency belonging to his early life. A delinquent act is a part of the accumulated life process which can be understood only in relation to the sequence of experiences of which it is a part. The causes for a child's going astray are intimately related to all the factors in his development; they are part of his total personality. Crime is undoubtedly bound up with juvenile difficulties and behavior problems which have accumulated uncorrected from childhood and adolescence. At the United States Attorney General's Conference on crime held in Washington, December, 1934, the following resolution was adopted: (National Probation Association Year Book, 1935, pg. 200.) "The conference recognizes that criminal careers usually originate in the early years of neglected childhood, and that the most fundamental and hopeful measures of crime prevention are those directed toward discovering the underlying factors in the delinquency of children, and strengthening. And coordinating the resources of the home, the school, and the community for child training and child guidance." Since it has been shown conclusively by a statistical study of 14,- 000 juvenile court cases made in Los Angeles County in 1934, that approximately 70% of these cases need never be if homes and community agencies could combine their efforts to prevent crime, society is naturally confronted with the question: "Who is Delinquent?" The child, the home, the school, the church, or the community? The answer undoubtedly these. Often parents are blind to faults in their children; or they give up the attempt to train them properly in a includes all. 527 hopeless gesture of despair; or perhaps, they do not understand what some of the tendencies may lead to. Misunderstandings also arise because of the conflict between youth and age in their differing points of view on contemporary problems. But recent studies also show that broken homes, friction within the home, and even misunderstandings over social problems are not as frequent causes of delinquency as an unsatisfactory economic situation. Where children are hungry and have but little to look forward to in life they develop undesirable tendencies readily. Slovenliness is a large factor. When home conditions are less inviting than street influences, the problem of guidance is relegated to some agency outside the home. But the statistical picture reveals that most delinquent children have no church affiliations. Very, very few of them have hobbies to ride. Instead of being centered on wholesome activities, their interests are focused on the lurid and ever-present accounts of gangdom. Very few of them have group membership in any organization such as scouting, play centers, or character building clubs and camps. Although these organizations do reach an enormous number of children, they fail to reach many who need them most either because the children fail to avail themselves of the opportunities offered or they are barred from membership as being undesirable. Yet, the pitiful part about the picture of delinquency is that over half of the cases studied have less than what is called average intelligence. True, most of them range around the upper sub-normal level, but they gradually descend to a very low degree of mentality. These are the children who cannot keep up with their classes in school. Lacking the men- 528 tal ability to turn to anything partaking of an intellectual nature, they stand most in need of guidance towards wholesome activities and outlets for the normal gang instincts and' emotions. But unfortunately they receive the least. But if society ever is to be rid of the menace of crime, it is on this strata of humanity that welfare agencies must concentrate; and society must realize that crime prevention is a social responsibility. Truancy from school has been called the kindergarten of crime. It is generally a combination of habit, suppression by authority, a resulting defensive action on the part of the child, and a relative enjoyment in the out-of-school environment. Parents should never look lightly upon the habit; they should strive to remove the cause of the difficulty. It is estimated that approximately 5% of the school children are potential delinquents, but because of neglect and improper guidance, often many others are brought to the attention of the Juvenile Court. The following tables showing the work of the Juvenile Court of the Third Judicial District of Utah are typical since the district comprises three counties, including both urban and rural conditions and representing a population of 204,040: Juvenile Court Cases Third Judicial District State of Utah 1934 1935 Total Cases...........1,049 1,013 Delinquency............ 917 871 Dependency of Neglect.. 118 142 Others................ 14 0 The following table shows the nature of the offenses committed by the delinquents listed above: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Reason for Reference to Court (Delinquency 1934 1935 Total Cases.............917 871 Automobile Stealing...... 34 29 Burglary................- 91 75 Holdup.................5. 3 0 Other Stealing............353 330 Carelessness or Mischief....117 62 Traffic Violation.......... 65 139 Truancy..............0005106 114 Running Away............ 43 49 Ungovernable............. 45 34 Sex Offense............005 31 °27 Injury to Person.......... 8 1 Use of Liquor or Drugs... 12 g Other Violations.......... 12 13 Of the 1934 cases girls account for 115 Of the 1935 cases girls account for 151 Of the above cases stealing was the outstanding cause of difficulty, including automobile theft accounting for 384 and 359 cases respectively for the years 1934-35. Destructive mischief is the second cause in importance of numbers. In the above cases 64% are from homes where both parents are living together and only 36% from broken homes. The above cases were disposed of for the year 1934 as follows: Disposition: Total Cases Remaining under Supervision of Court Chiefly by Probation Officer......368 Dismissed After 'Warning...........497 Committed to a State Institution.... 31 Other Disposition.............-.... 21 The ages of the above delinquents were as follows: Age of Delinquents:...............1934 7 Years Old..... 0... Cee cee ee 5 8 Years Old...................05. 12 9 Years Old.......... Cc ccc eee eee 16 10 Years Old...................... 40 11 Years Old..................0.., 32 12 Years Old..................000- 74 13 Years Old...................04.112 14 Years Old...................05.113 15 Years Old..............2 20000165 16 Years Old.....................0.204 17 Years Old......................139 188Years Old" |... 45. Eee eee 5 This table shows that the early teens is the period when the great- LESSON DEPARTMENT est number become delinquent. Beginning adolescence, when the child seeks to break away from parental authority is a dangerous period in youthful development. Without thoughtful study parents have great difficulty in understanding the motives which prompt their children to act. The obligation of meeting this problem is a social one. The value of adult education in its attempts to raise the level of parental intelligence and insight in regard to behavior problems of children will be discussed in a following lesson. Although there is a general awakening and an increasing understanding of the situation, statistics show that there is much yet to be accomplished. There must_be a coordination of all the agencies and activities organized for the benefit of young people. Churches must evolve schemes which will develop an adequate philosophy of life in the lives of those young people who are not regularly under the direction of auxiliary organizations. Those who are in regular attendance at the meetings designed for their benefit are not, as a rule, the ones who become delinquent, but those who are not in regular contact with such an organization. The National Probation Association found that 13% of the cases studied had no church connections or else they attended very irregularly. The teachings of the Master should be kept in mind. He left the ninety and nine and went out after the one lost sheep, not being content until he had found it and restored it to the fold. If the church loses its interest and hold on young people in the adolescent years, there is something radically wrong either with its organization or else with its administration. Youth needs to have religion interpreted in terms of life situations, 529 and to be shown how to translate the ideals and principles of religion into everyday behavior. To quote further from the conference on crime prevention: "It commends the progress that has been made in certain states and localities in drawing together through such agencies as coordinating councils all available local forces to combat unwholesome influences upon youth. It urges state and national leadership through appropriate governmental and voluntary organization in fostering the development of these coordinating agencies, the provision of constructive educational, vocational, and recreational opportunities for youth, and the provision of competent, skilled service to children in need of guidance and correction." It is necessary to differentiate between the prevention of crime and its control. There is no longer any question about the relative costs or the enormous sums of taxpayers' money that is spent on criminal procedure only to result in a futile miscarriage of justice. The subject of control indicates police protection, court measures, and such subjects. © The text discusses this aspect rather fully. What we are most interested in is the problem of prevention as it centers in the home and the community. Activities 1. Submit a plan for your Stake to cooperate with other agencies to develop a coordinating council for the prevention of juvenile delinquency. 2. What has been done in your ward to gain the interests of those young people who are not affilated with any organization? 3. Prepare a list of suggestions pointing out how our church could acquire the @ctive: interests of a larger number of young people and 530 hold that interest through the adolescent period. References 1935 Year Book National ProbaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tion Association, 50 West Fiftieth Street, New York. Who Is Delinquent? Los Angeles County Plan of Coordinating Councils. Rotary Club of Los Angeles, (California. CHILD GUIDANCE Lesson I. PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Life is a glorious gift from Our Father in Heaven. We are given the opportunity of going away to school to grow and develop, to gain an experience that is necessary for eternal happiness. Spirits cannot be made perfect without its body of flesh and bones, and the testing that comes from meeting the conditions of this life. The greatest blessing that is given to mankind is that of becoming co-workers with Our Father in Heaven in giving His spiritual children the gift of life, and the added blessing of helping these children to attain the best growth and development possible. To Latter-day Saints who understand God's Plan "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man," motherhood and fatherhood become not a duty but a privilege. "We regard children literally as a gift from God committed to our parental care, for whose support, protection and training in righteousness we shall. Be held to a strict accounting." (The Vitality of Mormonism.) As parents we are accountable not only for this care in the years of childhood but in a sense for all of life—but more essentially for the period of dependance and adjustment—childhood and adolescence. If a child is allowed to stand on its feet before its legs are sufficiently strong, physical deformity may result. If the young man or woman is forced into the world to care for himself before he has sufficient understanding and development and power of resistance, spiritual and moral deformity may result. The parent who makes this mistake will not be held guiltless. In addition to the spiritual significance of children, the parent should want her children because she lives through them; her life goes on through the generations expressing itself in each new descendant. Her personal life is also enriched many fold by the contribution to her thought and feeling of every joy and sorrow of each child and grandchild. Children should be wanted, then, to fill up the void our lives: would be without them, especially during our declining years. Lawson G. Lowry, a psychiatrist, has said, "Being a parent is the most important job any of us has. We live in our children, so it behooves us to do a good job." But Latter-day Saint parents should want their children for deeper reasons than the strictly personal one. To them it should be the most important office they perform in the spiritual plan of LESSON DEPARTMENT the Church. Through modern rev-. Elation we were given the following: "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; for, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him." (Doc. And Cov. 18:10, 11.) Begetting children is only the first stage in fulfilling parental obligation. Proper training and care are equally important. Mosiah admonishes. "And ye will not suf- 'fer your children that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil, who is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit which hath been spoken of by our fathers, he being an enemy to all righteousness. But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another." (Mosiah 4:14, 15.) Improper care and training is one way in which the sins of "the fathers are visited upon the children "unto the third and fourth generation,' not through the blood stream so much as through the poor methods of living that are handed down by tradition. The quality of the training given children is equally as important as the quantity of children. Parents should carefully plan their family life so that adequate opportunities for developing into a wholesome personality are afforded every child. Froebel, one of the greatest pioneers in child care and training said, "God is to be our Father, yet we are far from being fathers to our own children. We 531 presume to have insight into divine things, and yet we neglect as unworthy of notice those human relations which are a key to the divine." Fortunately, the proper training of children usually improves the personalities of the parents as well. The great responsibility of being a successful parent should force us to be more wholesome characters than we might otherwise be. Children add_ ballast to the ideals of the parents. This point is well illuminated by Will Durant, one of America's most popular living philosophers: "Example is so powerful that if it is good, nothing else is necessary. The best home and the best school, other things equal, are those that govern least. It is remarkable how well-behaved a child can be without punishments and without commands. When the libertarian method fails it is most often because we parents ourselves violate the rules we would have our children obey. We counsel temperance, and eat and drink to excess; we teach amiability, and quarrel publicly; we inveigh against the dangers of candy and violent moving pictures, but surreptitiously we indulge in them until the child finds us out. We ask for gentleness loudly, and rudely command courtesy; we advise modesty, and pose as infallible gods. But children learn by what they see us do, not by what we tell them; when they are most troublesome it is very likely that they are imitating our past performances. Show me your children and I will tell you what you are." (Will Durant, Mansions of Philosophy, p 242.) What has been said up to this 532 point does not directly apply to many parents, since they want and love their children more than all else in the world. This affection is usually the parents' only equipment for properly rearing their children. Granted the desire, how to do the best job of training our children still puzzles most of us. Moreover, knowing how, doesn't always lead to accomplishing the task. Paul complained, "For I know that in me (that is, in my flesh,) dwelleth no good thing: for to will is present with me; but how to perform that which is good I find not: for the good that I would I do not; but the evil which I would not, that I do." (Rom. 7:18, 19.) Our knowledge generally outstrips our conduct. The parents who love their children most sometimes make failures of them. Usually the affection of such parents is narrowly selfish and is not calculated to promote the ultimate welfare of the child. Because the emotion of love is so strong, the point of view and needs of the child are often completely overlooked. A psychiatrist has said, ''The noblest sacrifice a parent can make for his child is to step gracefully and unobtrusively into the background of his child's life as the child's need for him naturally grows less and less." But this does not mean that the parent's task is completed when the child enters school, nor is it always completed when he is graduated from college at twenty-two. The transition into adulthood is a most treacherous one, and the child needs to be understood as he struggles to become an adult with a definite role in the world's work. His problems are no longer simple as they usually were as a child. The parent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE who would be successful to the end must tax her intelligence now as never before. She must search her heart with great diligence in the attempt to see her boy's or girl's point of view. She must show the courage to relinquish authority and control at times even when it is extremely painful; and she must exercise enough judgment to avoid producing an outcast from the home. Love is the guiding light and driving force in the noble art of parenthood; but unless it is enlightened by knowledge, it may defeat its own purpose. Problems for Discussion 1. State some reasons why parenthood should mean more to Latter-day Saints than to other people. 2. Show how children educate their parents. Give concrete examples. 3. Why do parents find such great difficulty practicing what they may know about proper care and training of children? What are some of the influences competing against proper parental treatment? 4. Show how unenlightened parental love may handicap the personality of the child. 5. What is the effect on the child of a parent's not wanting him? 6. Show the advantages of planning a complete family program, which includes not only bringing children into the world but also provision for their proper care and training throughout the growth period to adulthood. 7. What place would you say proper care and training of our children will have in shaping our exaltation in the hereafter?