Feet Above Clay By Dorothy Clapp Robinson ON'T know why you insist on staying with them. I'm not going places to be stared at —or pitied." "Oh, Sam. They don't do that. There are too many like us for that. Besides I am a class leader." "Go on—go on. Far be it from me to suggest you quit before you are dropped as you were at the club." "Sam. How can. You say such a thing? I don't think—." "Good thing. It's more comfortable to not. All I have done the last three months is think." He pushed his plate away with sharp distaste and rose from the table. "I wish I was stupid so I couldn't think." Lucy followed him into their small sitting room. "I wish you wouldn't be bitter, dear." "Bitter."" Sam Peters gave a short hard laugh. He waved his arm to indicate the small room, the shabby furniture. "Twenty years of hoping and planning and working and it nets us—this. The trouble with you is you don't recognize a snub when you get one. Get this. I am coming home with work this evening or I aim not coming. Do you hear? I am not coming. No man is better than one who can't provide." "Sam—", but he was gone banging the door to behind him. Lucy stood paralyzed. It would do no good to talk to him. He wouldn't listen. He could not hear. With that hard glitter in his eye. Only once before in their twenty years of married life had she seen it. She had not forgotten the least detail of that time. She could do. There was nothing HERE is the dessert?" From the dining room came _ the question of her twelve and fourteen year old boys. "Never mind the dessert," Rita told her brothers. "You are lucky to get stew these days. Can the remarks about it, too. Here are your caps." The door slammed and they were gone. Lucy turned back to the dining room. Rita was so brusk, so— so brittle but her tone left no place for self pity. She looked up as her mother came into the room. "He is gone." "I heard. But after all, Moms, he is right. There is nothing gained by struggling. Weare poor white trash now and we might as well get acquainted with the idea." "Where's Annise? Come home for lunch?" "In on her bed." The mother went into the small stuffy room. Face down on her pillow lay her first-born. "Annise." No answer. "Annise, come eat, dear. Will be late to school." "Not going. Not ever again." The tones though muffled were bitter. Taking the girl by the shoulders Lucy turned her. "Annise, are you il]?"' "Please, Mother. The white hurt face turned again to the pillow. Lucy rose heavily. Didn't she You 478 ACK at the table she stopped again. In a high-chair by the window little crippled Marie sat, drumming endlessly with a spoon. Rita was hurridly piling the dishes together. "What happened to Annise?" Rita seemed about to not answer. Then she gave the knives and forks she held a vicious throw. They fell with a clatter among the dishes. "They gave her the air. The crowd I mean. Beth didn't invite her to her party and Jim is taking Enid Crowe." Suddenly Lucy's legs buckled under her. She groped for a chair. "But, Rita, she has counted on it so. This being her last year and all." She could not bring herself to say that this meant Annise's last contact with the old crowd. "She has never been left out before. She even made over her dress." "So what?" Rita gave her mother a swift glance as she passed taking the dishes to the kitchen. "And, of course," as she came back, "It would be that snooty Enid Jim is taking." Her tone sharpened. 'Ann is crazy. Catch me losing tears over a highhat crowd. As I said before we have come down in the world and we might as well get acquainted with the idea." "Rita," Lucy sat suddenly erect. "You are not still going—you are not—?"' "At least," Rita interrupted, "he doesn't spoil his face being democratic when he finds out where I live. Nor does he lift his eyebrows over my clothes." "No one in the ward does that." "Oh, no? Have it your own way. Mother, dear, you have a lot to learn. In the meantime I am going to Crows Nest with Buzz tonight." There was a knock at the kitchen door. Rita gave her mother a swift RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE kiss, snatched her books and sped out through the front. LUcY went to the door. "Oh, it's you, Mrs. Smith. Come in." "No." The other woman waited on the steps. "I just wanted to tell you I'll keep Marie while you go to meeting." "Meeting? Am not going." "You are not going? What happened?" "Nothing—and everything." Over the visitor's face came a look of alarm. She opened her mouth to speak, gulped, and then blurted out. "Don't you dare let it get you down, Lucy Peters. A year ago I wouldn't have dared to—to—take help. I took pride in my home and family. Look at us now. We gave up everything. I couldn't take it. Don't you dare do that. You go," she demanded fiercely "teach your class. Give Marie to me." "Alright," she answered slowly, "T will go this time but I will tell the President to get someone in my place. And I will appreciate your taking care of Marie. It takes me so long to walk when I have to wheel her." BAck in the sitting room Lucy dropped into a chair. The clock on the radio ticked loudly. Minutes were passing. Years were passing. In this small strange-feeling house the years came tumbling about her bringing with them the wreck of her hopes, her dreams, her sense of well-being. Life had hit them and as Mrs. Smith had said they couldn't take it. Why? She didn't know. Sam had done all a man could do. They had been lucky to trade their equity in their home for a larger equity in this small place. If they had to they could sell the radio as That's right, but I FEET ABOVE CLAY they had the other good furniture. People had been happy before radios were invented. Some people in small houses were happy and contented now. It must be her fault. Women were responsible for the spirit of their homes. If she had done her part right they could laugh at disappointments and heart aches. Why hadn't she? Rising she dressed mechanically and taking her magazine and papers left the house. Left the unwashed dishes. Left a tight-lipped girl face down on her pillow. When she got back they would still be there but would Sam? QUTSIDE the air was balmy. From the apple tree by the house a robin was pouring a song of gladness into a world that was all wrong. Yesterday there had been a rain. It had left the inside cool but outside there was a lingering of spring. Spring was the time for hope and beginnings. Some times it was for endings. What was the matter with her. Grandmother Jen- - sen had crossed the plains and lived through the cricket war when food was much more scarce than it was now. - But her husband hadn't threatened to run away or kill himself. As she neared the corner the bus passed. She was late but she couldn't afford to ride. A dime would buy a soup bone or vegetables to put in the soup. For no reason at all she laughed aloud. A woman passing stared at her. Let her stare. Why not? If Sam didn't come home tonight everyone would stare—and whisper. She turned to cross the street. Out this far they were muddy from the rain. She slipped and jerked suddenly to keep from fall- _ing. That started a throbbing in her head. 479 On the opposite side she stopped to wipe her shoes. What a mess. They reminded her of something. What was it? Mud? No, clay. Clay. That was it, feet of clay. That was what was wrong with her. Her feet were of clay. All her life they had kept her bound to earth. In her early married days she had tried to soar with Sam but her feet had clung to common things. When she had taken this class Sam had to help her. Of course, long since she had learned to study it by herself but with her family she had failed. She had kept house for them, and clothed and fed them but she had failed in her real work. She should have known what to do about Sam and his bitterness. She should have known how to ease a young girl's heartache. Women with feet of clay could only get work to help out. They could not break through the brittleness of a girl like Rita. Again she laughed. A great one she was to teach a lesson on Gifts of the Spirit. She had no gift of the spirit—only of the body. Today would be her last lesson. Tomorrow she would accept her feet of clay. A year from now she would be like the Smiths, ceasing to struggle, thankful to have someone else carry the burden. She walked spiritlessly with drooped head. Women were going in her direction, singly and in groups of two and three. They were the women she was to inspire, to point a way to better living. These women secure, serene, prosperous looking. Why had she taken the class in the first place? GHE was too late for officers' meeting. She took her seat near the head of the room. The president nodded and smiled. She nodded in reply but her eyes were bleak and 480 cold. How could these women sing so joyously? Their Sams had work and their feet were not of clay. Clay gets cracked and hard and ugly. Then it was time for the lesson. Lucy rose slowly. 'Dear Lord," she prayed, "help me to put this over. Help me to forget Sam and my own limitations." She laid her book and notes on the table and looked over the upturned faces. There they were, eager, expectant. For a few moments she was panicky, stumbling aimlessly about. Then slowly within her something came to her assistance, directing her thoughts, guiding her questions. It was as if while that Something went on with the lesson Lucy Peters stood at the side looking on. There was Mrs. Summers, for instance, wrapped about in a cloak of learning. Why wasn't she teaching the class? Lucy Peters turned her eyes quickly away and met the adoring ones of little Mrs. Henry. Mrs. Henry usually watched her but today her expression was different. Was it pity? No, not from Mrs. Henry. Lucy remembered when this woman had first entered her class. Odd, rather old-fashioned, slightly dull, it had seemed there was so little could be done about her. And she had been so eager to talk. Now her expressions were more faltering but consistent. Her eyes were brighter but not bright enough. She too had feet of clay. The discussion finished. As she sat down Lucy heard a deep sigh from the class. The President rose. "Surely after this lesson it will be easy for us to rise to our feet and express our thanks and acknowledge—" HEN Lucy couldn't stand it any longer. She rose unsteadily and went outside. On the cement step RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE she sat down. She couldn't go home yet. Rita would be there and Annise, but Sam—. Anyway she must speak to the president. Through the slightly raised window the murmur of voices reached her. She heard one then another. Some one was quoting. She tried to catch the thought but it was gone. Then the meeting time was over and Mrs. Henry was sitting beside her. "Did you get sick?" "Yes—no. That is, I felt faint." "You're sick. I know you are." The woman's head nodded in affirmation of her own judgment. "T knew it when you first came in." Others passed. They stopped to say how much they had enjoyed the lesson. Still the President didn't come. "You make something alive and beautiful about each lesson,' she looked up to see Mrs. Summers' standing beside her. "I needed help so much today."' She passed on. Lucy's eyes widened in unbelief. Mrs. Summers needing help? She was so self sufficient. Then Lucy remembered hearing that troubles are not all the same, but all have them. She became aware that the woman beside her was talking. "seems like I just learned to live since I've been in your class." GUDDENLY Lucy was running toward home. She could not endure the suspense another minute. She had made a success of the class after all. She must DO something with her home. Men didn't run away from HOMES. Girls in HOMES did not turn brittle and go to places like Crows Nest. When home was only a block away she stopped, breathing hard. If only Sam wouldn't be there yet. No, if he would be there. What DID she. Mean? She ran into the street. FEET ABOVE CLAY There was a sudden loud screeching of brakes. Lucy was on the ground with a sharp pain in her hip. People were bending over her. "T couldn't help it," she heard a voice saying, "she ran right in front of the truck." "Yes," another added, 'she was running with her head down." She opened her eyes and looked about slowly. Yes, they could help her up. No, she wasn't hurt—much. She clung to the supporting hands. "Lucy." She turned her head. Her senses reeled. Arms she knew and loved went about her. She fainted. UCY'S eyes fluttered open. A roomful of faces were swimming crazily about her. She wished they would quit whirling but she could not speak to tell them so for something kept tagging at her mind confusing her. It was gentle and pleasant but persistent. It was something she must remember. It would help her. The faces blurred and her eyes closed. Through an open window came the murmur of voices passing on the street. That was it. A voice through the open window, this afternoon, quoting. "—to build faith. To strengthen morals. To open doors of learning—." She could sleep now. 481 a HEN Lucy Peters opened her eyes again she was fully conscious. Above her were the faces of her family, white and waiting. Panic swept over her. She tried to rise from the bed. "Easy." She turned and a sigh of unutterable relief escaped her. "Sam. You did come back." His lips touched her forehead as they had not done for many months. They were all there, her precious ones. Rita, and Annise was looking only troubled not heart broken. - "Muvver," little Marie cooed, 'us loves you." Lucy closed her eyes quickly. Her hand groped and found Sam's. "T'm glad. I'm glad," she whispered. "I have just discovered I can do it." "Do what?" They looked at each other. Had the shock touched her head? "Do my work. Make a home for you all. A real home I mean." "Who said you couldn't?" Rita demanded. "You've been making a pretty snappy job if you ask me. We always knew that but we have discovered several other things this last hour." Lucy scarcely heard her. "T can do it," she said softly. "I can do it because my feet are not in clay. My trying has lifted them above it as we were promised it would. My feet are above clay." "You telling us?" Rita demanded.