— Magazine Drive To Relief Society Stake Presidents: Dear Sisters: The time for our special Magazine Drive is from September 15 to October 15. All plans for this should now be decided upon. We hope the Stake and Ward Agents will be alert and work unceasingly until success crowns their efforts. The Executive Officers should be ready to assist the agents. Often they can secure subscriptions where agents are unsuccessful in doing so. All subscriptions taken from October 15, 1935, to October 15, 1936, will be counted in connection with the Honor Roll and awards to agents. To Our Magazine Agents. We deeply appreciate the work done by our Magazine Agents in past years. They have worked enthusiastically, efficiently and unselfishly. Last season was outstanding—we reached the highest circulation in our history. More Wards attained the hundred per cent quota than ever before and many climbed up to between seventy-five and one hundred per cent It has taken a great deal of work to reach this high standard, and we thank all those who made this success possible. Unfortunately some did not have their records printed on the last Honor Roll in the Magazine who should, because they did not reach the office intime. We urge that this season the reports be sent in promptly. Stake Agents should not wait for Wards that are late until the prompt ' Wards fail to get credit in the published list. Reports should contain the following information, and should be sent in by November 10th: Name of Ward, Stake, Enrollment, No. Of Subscriptions, Per Cent, Name of Magazine Agent. Stake Agents must have their reports in the Magazine office by November 10, 1936, in order to have them published in the Magazine and to compete for awards. Each Ward is asked to have as its goal a subscription list equal to the number of Relief Society members in its organization. We trust the following suggestions will be carried out by our Agents: 1. Know the worth of the Magazine. 2. Be prepared to talk intelligently on what it contains. 3. Do the work in a business-like way. 4. Study the art of salesmanship. 5. Keep records accurately. 6. Send in subscriptions legibly written and containing the necessary information: Name, Address, When Subscription begins, and Amount of money sent. (a) It is very important that agents should be accurate in stating the month each subscriber wishes to commence. This will help us to avoid mailing two copies of the same number to a subscriber. It will also tend to alleviate much work and expense in making the changes later. This list with the money should be sent directly by the Ward Agents to the Magazine office in Salt Lake City. Each agent should carefully read the following instructions before beginning her work. INSTRUCTIONS TO RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AGENTS Subscriptions Payable in Advance: The subscription price of the Relief 534 Society Magazine is $1.00 per year, payable in advance. Subscriptions will not be accepted at the Magazine office unless accompanied by a remittance, and Magazines will not be mailed to subscribers until the subscription price has been paid. In order to comply with this ruling and to avoid errors, subscriptions will not be taken by telephone at the Magazine office. Receipt Book, Use of: Agents should give each subscriber a receipt for money received. The agent should keep a record on the corresponding stub in the receipt book, of the name of the subscriber, the amount received, and the period covered by the subscription. This record will serve as a guide to the agent in soliciting renewals. Agents are supplied with receipt books by the Relief Society Magazine office upon request, or from their stake representative. Subscription Blanks, Use of: All subscriptions taken by agents should be written on subscription blanks. A separate blank should be used for subscribers in different towns. Care should be taken that all names are spelled correctly. Agent should sign her own name and address on each blank sent in so that a receipt may be mailed to her. Subscription blanks are supplied by the Relief Society Magazine office, upon request or from their stake representative. Give Complete Address: Agents will please give the correct and complete post office address opposite every subscription entered on the blanks so that subscribers will not be disappointed and Magazines lost. A subscription for a stake or ward Relief Society organization should be addressed in care of an officer of that organization, who will be responsible to the Society for the Magazines. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Change of Address: Requests for change of address should be written on a separate sheet and not ona subscription blank. Give the old as well as the new address. If it is necessary to change a name, give the name as it is now appearing on the Magazine, as well as the name as it shuuld appear in the future. Renewals: When a subscription is renewed, give the name exactly as it appeared on the previous subscription. Be sure to state with which number of the Magazine the subscriber wishes to begin the renewal, so that two copies of the Magazines will not be received for the same month, or so that a number of the Magazine will not be missed. Complainis: Complaints should be written on a separate sheet and not on a subscription blank. Remittances: Money received for subscriptions should be remitted by check or money order made payable to Relief Society Magazine. Address of Magazine Office: Subscriptions and letters regarding subscriptions should be addressed to Relief Society Magazine, 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Agents: Relief Society Magazine agents give their services, without a commission, just as do other Relief Society officers and workers, and pay for their own subscriptions. However, in order that they will not be at personal expense, they may deduct the cost of postage and money order from the amount sent in for subscriptions, unless this amount is paid by the Ward Relief Society General Fund. HONOR ROLL AND AWARDS TO AGENTS I. Honor Roll: All wards reporting a subscription list of 75 to 99 per cent of their mem- MAGAZINE DRIVE bership will have their names and the names of the agents'published on our Honor Roll. All wards reporting a subscription list equal to 100 per cent or over of their membership will not only have their names and the names of the successful agents published on a special honor roll but will receive from the General Board a certificate of appreciation. II. Awards: (a) To the ten ward agents obtaining the highest percentage of subscriptions, a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine will be presented at the General Conference of the Relief Society April, 1937. (Note: If agents earning awards are not in attendance, the book will be sent to them.) (b) To all ward agents not receiving a bound volume, who obtain subscriptions equal to 75 per cent or above of their membership, providing such subscription list contains a minimum of 25 names, a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine will be awarded. 5555) All subscriptions received from October 15, 1935, to October 15, 1936, will be counted in the 1936 campaign. (Subscriptions received after October 15, 1936, will be credited in the 1937 Drive.) President Rudger Clawson says: "The Relief Society Magazine is a wonderful Magazine. You must never forget that it is the Relief Society organ, it is your publication, it belongs to you, it is issued for your benefit. If a Relief Society Sister should come to me and say, 'Brother Clawson, what is my responsibility to the Church publications?' I should say without hesitation, 'My dear Sister, your first obligation in this matter is to subscribe for the Relief Society Magazine. In it you will find every instruction and teaching that is necessary for you, and then after that, if you want to subscribe for other magazines, it is all right, but for you, it should be the Relief Society Magazine first."