Transplanted By Lella Marler Hoggan RANSFER?" asked the moT torman. "No, thanks! Let me off at the end of the line," directed Nancy Ann Parker, as she seated herself, bag in hand, by an open window. The jostling car shot past the thronged crossings, long lines of automobiles, and brightly decorated shop windows. On and on it rocked, rhythmically, past the smoky down town shops, and the residentiial district, into the sparsely settled community. Nancy Ann reveled in the picturesque surroundings, and drank in the sweet spring odors. Rippling fields of green, bright meadow flowers, a broken-down pasture fence, and a pebbly brook stretched out ahead of her, when the motorman turned in his seat and announced, 'This is the last house on this line, lady." He pointed to a neat frame building basking in the morning sunshine. "T reckon that's the place," announced Nancy Ann, as she stepped gingerly into the street, and started across the green field. Walking briskly to the cottage, she rapped gently on the front door. "Good morning," said the pleasant little woman, who came to the door with a baby in her arms. "Will you come in?" Nancy Ann smiled genially, "No thank you, I'll not come in, but if you don't mind, I'd like to sit here on your steps for awhile, and maybe walk out around the barn and the hen-coops. I was afraid if I went nosin' about, without sayin' anything, you might think I was a tramp." "Make yourself at laughed the little woman. "Tl tell you, dear girl," continued Nancy Ann, "I came out to see the spring. My blood's been bubblin' fora week. When I woke up this mornin' and saw the streaks of sunshine gleamin' across them purple mountains yonder, I couldn't stand it another day. So I just climbed onto the car and told the motorman to take me to the end of the line." "That was the right thing to do," " endorsed the new friend. "T wanted to see the blue birds and smell the medder posies, and hear the larks a singin'. I wanted to drink in this sweet spring sunshine, and feel the grass springin' under my feet. Why, land o' livin', girl, this is something like!" "You wonderful woman," gasped the young mother, 'you feel just like I do. The spring has been calling me for days, and here I sit in my kitchen, cooking, and mending, and tending my babies, as if life depended on it." "Why don't you cut loose? Come on! Start. Right today." "Tf you'll stay around until I finish my morning's work, I'll do it. My husband will not be home until evening. I'll take the babies and we'll make a day of it." "Brave girl! I should say we'll make a day of it. Got any fresh eggs?"; "Yes, buckets of them." "We'll take a bucket of them with us, and boil them over the camp fire, Gypsy fashion. I have home," 498 some bacon here, too, and some buttered brown bread, and oranges. We can prob'ly find some water-cress along that ditch bank yonder. We'll have a real banquet." "Come in while I get ready. ''m so glad you came." "Now you go right ahead and fix the children. And IJ'll wash up your dishes while I wait." Nancy Ann removed her wraps and began rolling up her sleeves as she spoke. As she washed the dishes she said: "T'live in the Bear River Valley. But I've been staying with my son in the city, since I was left alone.". "Well," interjected the hostess, "T came from the Bear River Valley, too." "Youdid? What's your name?" "Bessie Bradley. My maiden name was Norton." "T guess I don't know your folks. But I know you, now, and I'm glad I found you. My name is Nancy Ann Parker. Folks call me Aunt Nancy." Bessie smiled as she went about putting the room in order, washing and combing the children, and putting on their clean dresses. "Yes," continued Nancy Ann, "my youngest son, Jack, lives in one of them apartment houses up on the hill. Him and Helen was married just last year, and they want me to break up house keepin' and live with them. They're real good to me. But I don't like the smoke and the noise and the clutter of the city. And nothin' to do —always nothin' to do. [I'm not needed for a blamed thing at Helen's. There's no cellar and no garret to'clean up, and no old clothes to make over. Why mercy me, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Bessie, when I| feel spring in my blood, 1 want to get busy." 'So do I," agreed Bessie. "Yes," Nancy Ann added, "my fingers itch to dig in the garden; I want to feed a brood of fluffy, yellow chickens; and I long to smell soap a bilin'; and feel the warm soft wool in my fingers, as I card the bats for my winter quilts. What do the women folks in town know about work, these days, anyway? When they wanta light they push a button. No monkeyin' with smoky chimneys and pesky coaloilcans. When they want to wash or iron they push a button. Now just between you and me and the bedpost, the hull kit and bilin' of 'em don't do enough work to get the backache." "But I'm glad women have it easier, now," defended Bessie. "So am I, Bessie. I never push a button for light or power that I don't thank the Lord for such miracles. And I guess it's a good thing they don't have cellars and garrets. I know I keep too much old stuff around. I reckon I'd have more time and peace of mind, too, if I'd have a burnin' now and then. But I love my old things and I love my work, too. I love to make soft warm quilts, and pretty bright rugs. And I've wove hundreds of rag carpets." "But I'm hinderin' you, Bessie, with my talk. Go and fix up your bedroom while I finish up in here. I'll help the children into their wraps." BESSIE had scarcely finished the bedroom when Nancy Ann stepped to the door. "Say, Bessie, there's a triflin' lookin' peddlar at the door, and he's mad as all git out. Maybe you'd better come and see what he wants." TRANSPLANTED The peddlar proved to be a salesman for a local firm that had sold Bessie some blankets. She had made her first payment before receiving the goods. But when the blankets were delivered, they were so inferior that Bessie knew there was a mistake. So she telephoned to the company to come and get their goods and refund her money.- The little man at the door was very irate, and refused to make an agreeable settlement. When Nancy Ann saw that Bessie was somewhat worsted in the contest of words, she stepped to the door. "Well, mister," she greeted him, "you seem to be a little warm under the collar this mornin'." He glared at her but did not reply. "Bring the blankets in, Bessie," she requested, "and bring my shoulder shawl, too, please. It's on the back of that rocker." The argument had settled on one questionable point, as to whether or not the blankets were fifty per cent wool, as guaranteed by the company. "Say, mister, did you ever shear a sheep?" questioned Nancy Ann. "Sheep shearing is not my business, Madam," tartly replied the representative. Nancy Ann reached for her shawl, and began plucking the fluff from the lace edge. "Do you know a sheep by the smell?" she went on. "I'm not in the sheep business, Madam," he floundered. "Bessie, bring me a couple o' matches," said Nancy Ann, as she pulled a wisp of fluff from the blankets. First, she lighted the black fluff from her shawl, and held the scorching bit up near the man's nose. 400) "Now that shawl's one hundred per cent wool. I clipped the pelt, and sptin the yarn, and knit the shawl, myself. So there's no gobetween." She then lighted the white fluff from the blanket. "Now smell that. What do you say?"? "Well, f will say they don't smell just the same," he countered, as the stern lines about his mouth began to relax.: "Til say they don't, "ejaculated Nancy Ann. "Why, man, that blanket's never been within shootin' distance of a sheep." The shadow of a smile curved the salesman's lips. "Of course, it's Bessie's deal. She can do as she likes," agreed Nancy Ann, with a shrug of the shoulders. "But if twas me, I'd see you in tophet a pumpin' thunder at three cents a clap, before I'd keep your blankets." A broad smile illuminated the man's countenance. "Madam, you win," he surrendered, and turning to Bessie, "Roll up the blankets, lady. How much did you say you paid down on thei?' And he passed her the money. ANCY ANN heaved a sigh of relief as Bessie closed the door. "Tl tell you right now," she ejaculated, "no peddlar ever sold me anything I didn't want to buy." "Hereafter, I see my goods before I pay for them," laughed Bessie. "Now what else can I do to help your" questioned Nancy Ann. "We must be off. He's wasted most a half hour of our precious time." "You could pack the lunch maybe. There's plenty of cooked food 500 there in the cooler. There's cold meat, and little cakes, and pie, and fresh fruit.", "I have plenty of bread," announced the older woman, "but we can take some of the meat and some little cakes. Never mind the pie. With this bucket of eggs and a quart of milk, I think we'll do fine. Say, but we're goin' to have a glorious day. My blood'sa bilin' with joy clegr to the ends of my fingers." "It's going to be a real adventure," exulted Bessie, slipping the hilarious children into their caps and coats. ANCY ANN'S wildest plans did not outrun the adventures of that day. They walked to the foothills, plucked wild flowers, and dug segoes with a sharpened stick. They gathered water-cress, and cooked their dinner over an open fire. Nancy Ann found a hen's nest, containing thirteen eggs. They made whistles from pussy willows, and finally climbed up into the hayloft to watch the glorious sunset. "Tt's been all I expected, and more," said Nancy Ann. "I have only one regret, I wish we had started earlier. But it's wrecked ime for the city. I wouldn't be surprised if I'd be startin' for home about next week," and then a grave expression crossed her face. "Do you want to go back?" questioned Bessie, sweetly. "Wantto?' There was a world vf heart-sick longing in the words. "Can't you go?" And Bessie's sympathetic eyes searched the kind old face. "Yes, Bessie, if I'm _ brave znough, and I reckon Iam. My ack is not so stiff for a woman vi my years. I'm thinkin' I can still earn my livin' and feel hapRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE py doin' it. Only—only, it'll be lonesome at first. You see Sam and me worked side by side fer more than half a century, and no better man 'ever lived than Sam." Her voice broke, but in a moment she continued, "It's like this, Jack and Helen want to make life easier for me now that I'malone. But l 'never could tolerate an old woman settin' around on a silk cushion a waitin' to die. When I get toa place in the road where I can't get up and do the things that need to be done, I'm ready to go, and I hope the Lord takes me without waitin' around too long." "But Jack would help you even if you went back to the old home, wouldn't. He 2?": "Oh, yes, all of my children are willin' to help me. But, you see, while I'm able, well—I'd sooner help myself." | "You dear, brave soul," admired Bessie. "I'm afraid your son can never make you happy in his city home.": "No, I often tell Jack I'm like an old tree. You can't transplant an old tree successfully, it's too deep rooted." "You surely have a great love for the open spaces, don't you?" "Yes, Bessie, and little wonder. I was born on the plains, and cradled in a moving prairie schooner. My whole life's been spent on the frontier. But God gave us roses as well as bread. Along with the tears there's always fun and laughter, if we take them. My life has been full of glorious adventures. I always found time to do some of the things I loved to do, along with the things I had to do, and I put all of the joy and ginger I could into the necessary work." "You're a philosopher, Aunt Nancy." TRANSPLANTED 50! "My philosophy's made up just of chips and whetstones I've picked up along the trail. But if an angel happened to come walkin' up that path, right now, and told me I had just one more year to live, I wouldn't feel called on to make any changes in my program," and she smiled contentedly. "What time is it, Bessie?" The little mother held up the small clock. "T must catch that next car or Helen will be worryin'. I didn't tell her where I was goin' today." "T'm so glad you came," repeated Bessie. 'We'll never forget it. Here, take this paper with you. It's the county paper from home. You might enjoy looking it over." "Tl read it," promised Nancy Ann. "And I'll remember you formany aday. Youknow we get anything out of life we want. The trouble is, most people are afraid to cut loose and help themselves to happiness. Don't be afraid, Bessie. There's plenty of joy to go around and to spare, if you'll just learn to take it." Bessie watched Nancy Ann until the car disappeared in the distance. 'One never knows," she mused, "what blessing the day wiil bring." A soon as she sat down in the car, Nancy Ann _ unfolded the county paper, and turned to the news from her home town. Almost the first item that caught her attention, was an advertisement of an auction sale. She read it through the second time, trying to steady the trembling paper. "Sure as I'm a livin' woman, that's my own furniture," said she. "Now I just wonder what' particular things Jack has told them to sell. Vm glad | saw this paper." She was serious the rest of the way home. ELEN met her at the door with a welcoming smile. "T'm surely glad it's you, Mother Parker. When you were not here at dusk, I became so anxious I telephoned Jack. But he just laughed and said most likely you had gone out on a still hunt for happiness. Said you often did it and seldom got home early." "Jack knows his old mother, all right," chuckled Nancy Ann. "When I had eight children at home, all at once, the evenin's were a little nerve rackin' at times; and many's the time they all got to needin' a lickin' at once. Then I used to slip out quietly, and steal down to the lilac arbor, and sit there in the soft dusk and rest and relax. Or maybe, I'd slip into a neighbor's house for fifteen minutes just for a change." "And the children?"' "Oh, the children were all right. I was the one that needed a lift. Excuse me for changin' the subject, Helen, but say, I've had a wonderful day." "Been over to Aunt Martha's 2?" "Martha's," she echoed scorn: fully, "Why, child, 've been out in the country, diggin' segoes and makin' whistles. Had bacon and eggs for dinner, cooked over a camp-fire, and water-cress fresh from a mountain creek. Met a little woman I'd never seen before, and we sure made a day of it." "Mother Parker you'll never grow old." "Not as long as life's worth livin' I shan't. And yet, I don't know. Death'll be a brand new experience. And I reckon it'll be full of just as many glorious ad- 502 ventures as life is. Say, there's Jack, now, and I'm wantin' to see him." "What. Are you wanting, Mother?" inquired Jack, greeting them both warmly. "T want to know which furniture and stuff it was, you told Jeddy Hill he could auction off." "Why all of that old stuff, Mother, that wasn't in your room." "You mean the things in the granary?" "Yes, and all of that stuff in that store-room.' "Not that south room, surely?" "Yes, why not?" "Why, Nellie's cradle's in there —the one she slept in when she died. And the melodeon. That melodeon is one of the first musical instruments that ever crossed the plains. And then there's your father's chest of tools, and our first bed. You don't have any idea I'd sell such things?" "Now look here, Mother dear, you'll never in all this world use any one of those articles again. Why give them house room and keep them around to worry about?" "T know, Jack, but I couldn't sell em." "IT wish I knew what to do, Mother, to make you happy here. I want you to be comfortable and contented. You've spent your whole life serving others. I want you to rest, now, and be free from care. Is your heart always going to go back to the old home?" "Yes, son, always. Like the Children of Israel, I long for the flesh-pots of Egypt," she laughed. "Ym too old to take root in new soil." "Now, Mother mine." "I know, Jack, the years don't count while the heart beats young. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE But there's a lot of unfinished things I've been waitin' fer years to do. Besides I want to be busy to the last. I always did hate a stagnant pool: but oh, how I love a runnin', singin' brook." "T'm afraid you're getting homesick," he bantered. "I am a little homesick, Jack. Had a strange dream the other night. J dreamed I saw your father. Seemed like I was up home settin' by the kitchen window, and he came in all smilin' and happy and passed mea key. I asked him what key it was, but before he could tell me I-woke up." "You need a day out in the country, Mother." "Don't you ever think I haven't had one today, and a most glorious one, too. It was like goin' home." He looked across at her and smiled. "Home," he echoed, "Can't we ever make this home to you, Mother?" "Don't worry, Jack, you and Helen's been mighty good to me, and I'll not forget it. But you know me, Jack, bread is always sweeter when I earned it myself." "But, Mother dear, you're not sixteen you know." "Follow in my tracks for a week, young man, and then guess my age." Jack caught the twinkle in her eye and he knew that the argument was ended. "What is it going to be, Mumsy," he laughed, "My Aunt' Sally" or "A turkey in the Straw?" 'No, Jack, I want to hear that New York jazz program." EXT morning about 10:00 a. M., Jack had a hurry-up call to the telephone in his office. 'What is it?" he asked anxiously. TRANSPLANTED "This is Helen speaking. Thinking your mother would be tired after her day in the country, I did not disturb her. But when she had not come down by ten, I felt anxious, and I went to her room to see if she was all right. Jack, she's gone. She did not sleep in her bed last night. Whatever could have happened? I'm simply distracted." "Calm yourself, Mother's all right. We shall probably get a wire about noon, saying she's gone home for the summer." "And you really think she's safe?" "All smug and fine, sure. It would take a mighty hard jolt to upset Mother. She is one woman who is thoroughly capable of engineering her own career. She moves with a purpose, and she generally reaches the goal she sets out for, without accident or sorrow." "T'm so glad you think she's safe. But I'm anxious just the same." "Wait a minute, Helen, here's a telegram, now. I'll read it." "Dear Jack and Helen. Things looking fine. Sale's today. Love. Home safe. Jeddy's auctioin Mother." ig was about 11:00 a. M. When Jeddy Hill stepped onto Nancy Ann's porch and reached out to unlock her door, and didn't. "Well, Vl be—When did you get here' he stammered. "Oh, I've been here quite a spell. I've got the house in livin' condition and done a little bakin'. Come in and have a chair. You got here just in time to sample my cookies while they're hot. They taste better hot." Jeddy hesitated. He looked at the shining windows, the freshly 503 washed floor, and the white polished kitchen range. Nancy Ann passed him a plate piled high with delicious, spiced raisin cookies. Very reluctantly he took one. But he shortly helped himself to a second and a third one. "They're all right," he admitted, grudgingly, "but coming to business, Nancy Ann, I'm here to get the things Jack promised me. The auction sale comes off this afternoon." "What things do you figger on sellin'?" asked Nancy Ann, quietly. "Well everything in the granary and the south room." "V'm not goin' to sell the stuff in the south room, Jeddy." And her tone was very decisive. "Well now, Nancy Ann, them tools will never be of any use to you, and—" "Look here, Jeddy Hill, I'm tellin' you, I'm not goin' to sell the stuff in the south room." Drawing a key ring from his pocket, Jeddy fumbled the keys in his fingers. "Now tools lose their value quicker'n most any kind of implements," he persisted. "Where did you get that key ring?" interrupted Nancy Ann. "Why Jack passed it to me last fall and told me to lock things up." "Let's see it," she demanded. "I've searched this place from studdin' to rafter fer that bunch o' keys. I had two keys fer this room or I'd have been locked out." "As I was sayin', Nancy Ann, about them tools and things." "Jeddy Hill, it'll do you no good to raise ructions about that stuff. I'm not goin' to sell it—and that's that. There's the key to the gran- 504 ary, and | see your man's come to load up." She spoke with a finality that offered no excuse for reply or argument. Jeddy's disappointment was plainly featured in his face, as well as in his fretful, irritated manner. "Better put a handful o' them cookies in your pocket, Jeddy," suggested Nancy Ann. "The iman on the wagon might like one." Nancy Ann closed the door softly behind him and sat down in the old rocker. "Now that's the key to the south room," she said, "and that's the key to the cellar, and that's the key to the coal house."' She clustered them together on the ring. "This is my own door key, and this my trunk key, and this—' she puzzleda moment. "Oh, sure, it's the key to Sam's tool chest. But this?" She singled out a small brass key and her brow wrinkled in bewilderment. "Now where have I seen that key before?" She closed her eyes as if to shut out all other thoughts. Then she sprang to her feet with a start. "It's the key to Sam's strong box. That's the very key he passed me in my dream, and I've never thought of that strong box since I put it in my trunk, the day after the funeral." She walked hurriedly into her little bedroom, the room made sacred by the intimate, pathetic, and hallowed scenes of a life-time. Unlocking the old trunk, she lifted out the till. There lay Sam's best suit, carefully sponged and pressed. She noticed the frayed cuffs she had mended so painstakingly before he wore the suit those last Sundays. There were other pieces of his clothing, and various little keepsakes. She placed them lovingly on her white bed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE After a few moments, she wiped the tears from her eyes, and lifting the strong box from the bottom of the trunk, she placed it on the table. With trembling fingers, she fitted the small brass key into the lock and turned it. Raising the lid she gazed at the contents. "Just as he placed 'em himself," she whispered. Held by a rubber band were his tax receipts, year by year, since he first received the deed for the land. Here was his little book with the notations in his clear plain hand, of many of the important happenings since he came to the valley. Along side of the papers, was a small tin box. It too, was locked. She tried the brass key. It turned in the lock. The lid sprang open. Gold! Five dollar gold pieces! She stood in bewilderment. As if to verify what her eyes told her, her fingers touched the coins—tenderly, almost reverently. She picked up one, she turned it over. There was a tiny bit of white paper glued to the face of it. "Nov. 12, 1878," she read. "The very year we came to the valley. How did he do it?" She turned another, and another, and still another. Here was one put by on Christmas in the eighties. Here was one on her birthday, and one on their wedding day, and other dates—oh, so many. And here, the last one in the box, "Oct. 20, 19.....," the very day he died. Her weeping eyes could see no more. Fumblingly, she placed the contents in the box and closed the lid. The gentle, old figure shook with sobs as she felt her way to the white bed. There beside a faded suit and a dust-stained hat, she knelt in prayer.