8 The Radiance of a New Day By Joseph Quinney, Jr. HE dawn of this new day is | radiant with hope, it brings me faith and the glow of love. The yester-years are closed, they are forever closed and passed beyond the power of my control, all I have of them are memories. But this new day is radiant, it gives me strength to reach its close with unfaltering step, yea, undaunted courage. The dawn of this new day is radiant with the light of God, indeed, "That which is of God is light, and this light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day." So says the Seer of this new day. This holy light of truth belongs to God, it is the glory of His presence and the saving power of His beloved Son. It is the foundation of life and the song of our salvation. This new day is the light of truth. The dawn of this new day is radiant with exalted thought. I look up to a power above to guide and give light, it's my day to pray, to think and meditate, to have God know my heart and song; it is the power of Him who loves and gives. This new day belongs to me, it ts my day of thought. The dawn of this new day is radiant with promise of new born truth, it's the holy torch that lights the way to eternal things and reveals to us God's great gifts, it gives us vision to see the good and the wisdom of the past and invites us into the portals of the just. The dawn of this new day is radiant with the joy of everlasting friends. They are the priceless gifts of God, and are the ones who believe in us and we in them. They hold our gift of trust and in them reside the holy love of confidence. Every beautiful thought we know, every precious sentiment we feel shines out of them in radiance and the glow of light is with them. They are the jewels of the ages. The dawn of this new day is radiant with the gift of gratitude. It glows with light and splendor. The message of this new day is cheerfulness, calm courage and good will. It tells us of the Christ. It bids us live without hate, envy and jealousy, and move forward in the sacred path of trust and radiate life with all that's fine, beautiful and soul satisfying. The dawn of this new day is radiant with vision of the perfect gifts of God. "The path of truth, higher living, truer development in every phase of life is never shut from the individual until he closes it himself." Ah; this day of all great days has dawned, it is the golden day and belongs to God, to bring it to a close with all that's fine in life and to crown it with the glory of the Lord.