Grandmother's Teapot By Isabelle B. McKenzie Scene 1 (Martha Wells enters, throws herself into a chair, fanning herself with her apron.) Martha: Oh dear, I am so hot and tired! How glad I am that the canning and pickling are over for another year! It does seem so foolish to peel so many tiny onions, when the stores offer such attractive pickles and preserves. (Sighs) But, then, my family always like Mother's things best. (Knock at door. Martha admits the magazine agent.) Martha: Good afternoon, Sister McKenzie. It's nice of you to stop in. Sit down. Agent: Would you like to subscribe for our Relief Society Magazine? Martha: I took it for years, and I always enjoyed it, but I just can't take it this year. I'm sorry. (Exit agent.) Martha: (Talking to herself) I just won't go to Relief Society when I haven't an idea what the lesson is about. I always used to be prepared, but last year I felt downright silly, for I never had a chance to get the lesson. I thought surely I'd be able to take it this year, but—(knock at door) Oh, hello Sister Ryberg. Sister Ryberg: Why Sister Wells, aren't you ready? The president wants all officers and visiting teachers to go early for special instructions before the regular meeting. Martha: No, I will not be able to go today. Please have me excused. Sister Ryberg: It is still early. I will wait for you. I picked up the magazine before I left home, and found such a nice poem. It always makes me think of my dear mother's quilts. Listen, I'll read it to you. (Reads poem) Don't you love poetry? There are always so many good poems in each number. Aren't you going to get ready? Martha: No, not today. I can't go, so there is no use waiting. Another time, maybe. Sister Ryberg: I am sorry. Well, I'll try to drop in and tell you about the meeting. Goodbye. ( Exit.) (Martha closes the door then stands at the side of the window looking down the street. ) Martha: There they come in twos and threes, all going to meeting. I'll just stand back so they won't see me. There go Ann Harris and Sarah Hayes, the quilters, President Cameron with her counsellors, went some time ago. There's Sister Morris and Sister Pratt the art teachers. I bet they have a lot of new ideas. There's Sister Webber and Grant, they are the ones who show you how to make new clothes out of old ones. There's Sister Cannon, all primed with splendid social welfare plans. I guess Velma will give the lesson today. I love her lessons. (Sighs deeply) Musical director, choris- ~ ter, gay, laughing. Marjorie Stewart, all will be there but me! Oh, dear. (Puts apron to eyes and cries.) (Enter Margaret—kneels by her mother's side, arms around her.) Margaret: Mother, darling, what is the matter? What has happened? Have you had bad news? Tell me, quick. GRANDMOTHER'S TEAPOT (Martha sobs quietly for a few minutes, then dries her eyes.) Martha: No dear, I just feel a little blue today. Indulging in a bit of foolish self-pity, I guess. All the neighbors have gone to Relief Society Meeting, and I felt a little lonely. Margaret: Why didn't you go? You always like the first meeting. It looks as if your pickles are all finished. Martha: Well, I don't intend to go any more. That's why. Margaret: Why not? For mercy's sake what reason have you? Has some one hurt your feelings? Martha: I can't keep up with the lessons unless I have the magazine, and I simply can't afford it this year. Will is going to need so much more at the U, and Beth can't go to High School in the same old made overs she wore at grade school. What with your father only working half-time and the twins forever kicking through a pair of shoes, I just can't manage a whole dollar for the magazine. Margaret: (Kissing her) Poor little mother. It always has to come out of your life! How I wish Tom had a better job so I could help you! Maybe things will be better soon. Something lovely may be just around the corner. Martha: You're such a comfort, honey. How foolish Iam! Really Iam the most fortunate of women, with such a kind husband and such a wonderful family. Margaret, I believe while you are here to hand me the things from the high shelves, I'll clean the pantry shelves. Margaret: That's a fine idea. I'd like to help. Where's an apron? (Action bringing in dishes, and washing them.) Martha: Margaret, I am awfully proud of Will's fine record at 483 school. He's such a steady boy. Our children are dears—Beth is getting sweeter every day. And when I look across the street and see Sister Evan's little Paul sitting their in his wheel chair, I feel truly grateful that our twins can wear out their shoes so fast. I'm ashamed of my grumbling. Margaret: You know dear, we truly have a great many blessings. Remember the dear old hymn you taught me long ago? (She begins to hum "Count Your Blessings" and both sing a verse as they work.) Margaret: (Holding up a teapot.) Mother, you have so many useless things to clutter up this shelf. Now here is Grandmother's old teapot. It's cracked and you never can use it again. Shan't I throw it away? Martha: (Taking it from her and turning it lovingly in her hands.) No, no, I can see my dear mother as she poured tea from this old pot for her friends. Then when she accepted the word of wisdom and stopped drinking tea, she found a new use for the old teapot. The egg money and bits of extra change were dropped into it. Many a time Mother has gone to the old teapot when I wanted some small luxury. How her sweet kind face beamed with pleasure at being able to share her little treasure with me. Margaret: Isn't that like Grandmother? She was always so kind, so thoughtful! Martha: Margaret, I've just thought of a use for that teapot! No, don't ask me! It's a secret. It is too dear to be cast aside. Put it back in the pantry—but not on the highest shelf. Curtain 484 Scene 2—One Year Later (Martha bustling about, gathering hat, coat, gloves, purse, preparatory to going out. Margaret enters.) Margaret: Going someplace, mother? Martha: Yes, I'm just rushing to get ready for Relief Soicety meeting. This is the first meeting, you know. Margaret: Oh, mother darling, I did so hope to have the money for your magazine today. But new babies come high these days. ( Sighs.). Martha: Never mind, my dear. (Gets the teapot and empties it on table.) There, what do you think of that. Margaret: Why mother, what a pile of dimes! Where did you get them? Martha: Last year, when we came upon that old teapot the thought came to me that it could be used RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as a thirft pot, just as your grandmother used it. A dime each week was never missed, and yet in a year the store has grown steadily. Five dollars and twenty cents, and all my Relief Society problems are solved for the year. I have three dollars for the visiting teachers, that is 25c a month,—a dollar for the magazine,—50 cents for stake dues,—and 70 cents for materials for the ward bazaar—all saved without working a hardship on any one. (As she talks she piles the dimes before her.) Margaret: (Throwing her arms around her mother.) Wonderful mother! No one else on earth would have thought of such a scheme, but it's a dandy! I'm going right straight home and start a thrift pot of my own! Three cheers for Granny's old teapot.