ELIZA ROXY SNOW MEMORIAL CONTEST God, alone, who had guided them in all their efforts, knew what infinite planning, and thrift, and sacrifice it had cost to put by this loving store for her. Through all the years, Sam had 505 denied himself in a thousand ways, that she might be blessed, and cared for, and comforted, when she must tread the winding path of life without him. WS Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest HE General Board conducts the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Memorial Poem Contest annually. Three prizes will be awarded—a first prize of $15.00, a second prize of $10.00 and a third - prize of $5.00. 'The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, and to pay for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Relief Society Magazine, and closes October 15. Rules of the Contest 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written. 4, The sheet on which the poem, is written should be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. Only one side of the paper should be used. 6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Non de plumes should not be used. 7. Statement should accompany the poem submitted that it is her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the nands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 9. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest. 10. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 11. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recog~ nized as writers. 12. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15. 13. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.