THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN: KATE M. BARKER: JULIA A, F. LUND Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight Rosannah Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Cora L, Bennion Ida P. Beal Amy Whipple Evans Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford: President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Marcia K. Howells RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - -: -: ° - Manager 9 0 - -. Assistant Naneeer pe) Connelly Kimball Louise Robison Amy Brown Lyman VoL. XXUI AUGUST, 1936 No. 8 Editorials A Profitable Vacation ACATION days are quickly passing. Are they leaving us something tangible and worthwhile? People who have been strenuously engaged during the winter months need change and rest, but they can get relaxation ofttimes by change of employment. To those who love literature, time to peruse the pages of books is one of their most delightful pastimes. We urge our officers and members to read during this vacation the three books that will be studied in our literary department next year: Abraham Lincoln, the Prairie Years by Carl Sandburg. Julia Ward Howe, by Laura E. Richards and Maud Howe Elliott. Alice Freeman Palmer, by George Herbert Palmer. Our project on the Old Testament was taken up by our officers and members most enthusiastically and the number of chapters thoughtfully read surpassed our fondest anticipation. Next year we are to have the reading of the New Testament as our project. This will correlate with our theological lessons and our teachers' topic lessons. Each time one reads the books of the New Testament, new light is obtained, new thoughts come that were before unseen. Every woman as she takes her vacation in the mountains, by the lake or under the murmuring trees can take with her a copy of the New Testament, and in these glorious solitudes drink in the spirit that the book has for each one who reads it understandingly. Growth brings joy, stagnation brings a state of atrophy, so while vacations should be restful, let them be exhilerating with new truths obtained, new light received, new information gained. 516 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Congratulations N July 7, 1936, at the beautiful home of Mr. And Mrs. Wallace F. Bennett, Sister Augusta Winters Grant, beloved wife of President Heber J. Grant, celebrated her eightieth birthday. Four hundred of her friends were honored with invitations to attend the reception, which was given by President Grant's daughters who left nothing undone to make the affair most delightful. We congratulate Sister Grant on her long, happy, useful life. We hope she will live for many years to be a joy and comfort to her illustrious husband and his remarkably fine family. 'Serenely she has walked through life, making the best of conditions and cir