Half a Million Dollars For a Bible By Ramona W. Cannon museum appears! So proper and catalogued and probably boring! But once break through its musty outer crust and reach its inner consciousness, and you uncover a past world still pulsating with the drama and romance of life. Think of the British Museum in London. What an intimate record of loves and hates, of defeats and victories its mighty heart contains! There lies the mute evidence of some of the greatest struggles in which mankind has engaged through all history. To the newcomer the scenes of such action become warm and fresh. A miracle occurs and names seem to clothe themselves with flesh and heart and intellect. CONSIDER the amazing exhibit of Bibles, great and small, written in nearly all languages, including Latin shorthand! Just books? No. They represent one of the greatest evolutions of human freedom that the world has known. Once a person has seen these volumes and understood at what cost they were given to our fathers, and what love existed in the hearts of those who gave them, he will thenceforward feel for his modern easily purchased Bible a little more reverence—a little more gratitude. Let us examine a few of these many cases filled with Bible exhibits. As a preliminary, it is interesting to see the clay tablets in the Egyptian or the Babylonian room. About 1400 B. C. As the Children of Israel wandered through the Wilderness and settled in the Promised Land, they undoubtedly made some rough Sirs a staid and sober place a notes of their experiences on clay tablets baked in the sun. Previous to that time, the well-disciplined minds of their leaders had retained in memory the history of their fathers and had passed it on from generation to generation. The clay tablets were the first method of recording. Here they are, hard and smooth, - with picture writings cut clearly into them. From such notes as these, and from the long memories of the learned, the first Old Testament manuscripts were probably written. While there are none of these very earliest documents in existence, it is quite certain that they were written on the finer skins of goats or sheep, prepared for the purpose. Our present book form was unknown. The ancient parchments were attached to two rollers. Here is a show case containing a wonderful example, a large leather scroll that must be two feet high. It is rolled around two enormous spools. This is the Pentateuch (first five books of the Old Testament), written in Hebrew. Seventy-five strips of leather have been glued together, and on these the text is written in columns, in large characters, forty-two lines to the column. The beginning is on the right hand side. As the student finished reading a column, he would roll it around the roller to the right, and as with a typewriter ribbon, unroll one or two or three columns from the left side spool, as suited his convenience. The rollers could of course stand close together or far apart. What a task to copy such manuscripts by hand, word for word! And how very proud the owner of such a roll must have been! HALF A MILLION DOLLARS FOR A BIBLE One wonders if a private individual ever owned an entire Bible, for these five books alone require a great deal of space. TOT until more than a hundred years after Christ did the modern book form, with individual pages bound together, come into use. This book form was called a codex, and was much easier to care for and use than the rolls. Only recently torn fragments of the oldest codex known were discovered and put on display by the British Museum. They date from about 150 A. D. And are bits of a fifth Gospel of the New Testament, resembling John more closely - than the other Gospels. This work was done on papyrus, which looks like splintered brown bark. One bit, translated from the Greek, reads: "They bade the multitude to carry together the stones and stone him. And the rulers laid their hands on him that they might take him and hand him over to the multitude, and they could not take him because the hour of his betrayal was not come." Then follows the coming of a leper to Jesus, and Jesus' healing of him. ERE is a strange looking manuscript, written in Greek uncials, in the sixth century. In the ninth century, some one had partly washed out this writing, and had written the Gospel of St. Luke across the pages at right angles to the original characters. This is called a palimpsest manuscript. There are many other examples of this method of cross writing in the Museum. Quite surprising is one tiny volume written on thin vellum pages measuring only three and one-half by two and one-half inches. This is a version of the Apocalypse in Coptic, done as early as the fifth century., One version of the Acts, Epistles, 487 and Apocalypse, in Greek, was written by the monk Andreas, who was engaged on it for three years. ANOTHER of the famous Bibles is the Lindisfarne text written at the end of the seventh century by the Bishop of Lindisfarne, Ireland. This brings us to the beginning of that wonderful art of illuminating manuscripts. The book is freely ornamented in the finest style of Anglo-Celtic art. The Celtic mind is likely to prefer fancy to reality, and that is the case here. Animal decorations are used, but only the head is left recognizable. Everything else is twisted out of any kind of semblance. This work was drawn with pen and ink in fine parallel lines that were filled in with water colors. Such little anachronisms as Matthew seated reading a modern book of Scriptures did not trouble anyone. There are many cases filled with the wonderful illuminated manuscripts that followed. What infinite patience and toil the monks put into the making of these volumes! And what beauty they achieved! One draws aside the protecting green curtain and looks through the glass case at the red and russet and blue flowers and scrolls, and the generous sprinkling of tiny gold leaves and dots. They are beautifully rhythmic in design, and of the most delicate workmanship. One moves one's head from side to side to see the gilded parts light up and grow rich and beautiful and warm with the ever changing glow. Some of the pages are composed almost entirely of the wide floral borders with perhaps a small picture of a Scriptural scene, and a very little bit of a psalm or another text printed on the page. There are some enormously large illuminated books with great pictures on them. The colors are lovely, but the figures not so good. They lack 488 proportion, grace and ease. Once could remain in this room for hours and be fascinated with the designs of these works of art. No sooner have you fallen in love with one than you turn to another which seems even more enthralling. But there are many other Bibles yet to see. Not the least interesting book is a Latin Psalter in Tironian notes, early tenth century, acquired in Reims. These were shorthand characters invented by Marcus Tullius Tiro, a freed slave of Cicero, who lived in the first century before Christ. After a thousand years these notes were still in use. And over here are the four Gospels written in the Caroline hand, developed under Charlemagne. This superseded the national hands of England, Spain, and Italy, and becaine the ancestor of the handwriting used today. We must recall that all the early Bibles were in Latin, Greek, or some other foreign language. There were many Norman-French Bibles circulating also before English Bibles were available. The standard text was the Latin Vulgate prepared by St. Jerome in 405. The earliest attempt to tell the Bible story in the native English (Anglo-Saxon) tongue was that of Caedmon, the cowherd of Whitby, who lived in the late seventh century.' Bede tells us that Caedmon could not sing, and went to the stables in grief when his brethren sang at the feasts. Then One appeared to him in a dream and said, "Caedmon, sing something for Me." The cowherd replied that he could not sing, but was told, 'Yet thou canst sing something for Me." Caedmon asked, "What should I sing?' The reply came, "Sing the beginning of created things." And Caedmon sang to the glory of the Creator, something like this: "Now RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ought we to praise the Author of the Heavenly Kingdom." One original manuscript exists, dating from the end of the tenth century, and is now at Oxford. We are told that in A. D. 735 the Venerable Bede translated the Gospel of St. John, and fought off death until with his last feeble breath, he had dictated the final words to his anxious scribe.; N the Museum is a Latin copy of the Psalms dating from the ninth century with a word-for-word Anglo-Saxon translation written between the lines. Also a priest of the tenth century inserted an English interlinear translation of the Lindisfarne Gospels. This occurred nearly three centuries after the original Latin writing. Alfred the Great and Aelfric the Grammarian gave us some paraphrases and translations into Anglo-Saxon, which may be seen in the Museum. In Wessex, in the eleventh century, an unknown author wrote the first independent version of the Gospels in old English. One of the six remaining copies of this work is also on display at the British Museum. HE first complete Bible in English was given to the people by John Wycliffe, who said, "The sacred Scriptures are the property of the people, and one which no one should be allowed to wrest from them." However, he met with the bitterest persecution for his liberal ideas. He recognized the abuses in the Church, and felt that a knowledge of God's word would help people to understand truth for themselves, and thus would bring about reform. Naturally this attitude did not enhance his popularity with those in power. It was charged that Wycliffe "had made the Bible common to laymen and even to women," HALF A MILLION DOLLARS FOR A BIBLE ' "_. So that the pearl of the Gospel was trodden under foot of swine." Archbishop: Arundel complained to the Pope of "that pestilent wretch, John Wycliffe, the son of the old Serpent, the forerunner of AntiChrist, who had completed his iniquity by inventing a new translation of the Scriptures." In spite of the opposition to this new Bible written in plain simple language for the understanding of plain folk, a great many copies of it were made. The price was necessarily high, about $200.00 a copy, but Wycliffe's "poor priests" helped to see that it was made available to the poor. Some might give a load of hay for the privilege of reading a copy for a certain period each day. A woman named Alice Collins used to come to gatherings and recite the Ten Commandments and other parts she had learned by heart. In the preface to this Bible was written, "God grant us to ken and to keep well Holie Writ, and to suffer joiefulli some paine for it at the laste." These words were indeed prophetic, for many of the readers of this Wycliffe Bible were burned with their copies round their necks. The persecuted Wycliffe himself expected to die as a martyr, and apparently would have done so, had not a natural death intervened. A petition was sent to the Pope asking him to have Wycliffe's body removed from consecrated ground and buried ina dung heap. This was not done, but forty years later, his body was burned and the ashes scattered on the river Swift which ran near his church in Lutterworth. Many of the Wycliffe Bibles were beautifully decorated with borders and elaborate capital letters at the beginning of Chapters. One handsome copy in the Museum was owned by Edward III's son, the Duke of Gloucester. 489 A HUNDRED years later came the printed Bible versions of Tyndale, master of seven languages. He, too, suffered for his determination to "make the boy that drives the plough in England to know more of Scripture than the Pope does." He had to flee from England and work secretly in Germany. When his Bibles appeared, a torrent of bitterness and accusation was _ loosed against Tyndale. Such ridiculous arguments were used as these: If a baker should read, "A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump" he would use too little yeast, and thus injure people's health. And if a simple man should read, "If thine eye offend thee, pluck it out," he would pluck out his eyes, and the realm would be full of blind men. Tyndale was cast into prison where he pleaded for a warmer cap and coat, since he suffered from a perpetual cold, which was much increased by his "chill cell." In 1536 he was strangled at the stake, and burned to ashes. With his last breath he prayed, "Lord, open the King of England's eyes." There are many of these Tyndale Bibles in the Museum, and other printed versions as well, in a great diversity of tongues. The early print is beautifully clear and uniform. "THERE are other Bibles great and small, in infinite variety, some of them in polyglot form, that is, with the text written in parallel columns in several different languages. WE must give a word to the Great Bible. Three years after Tyndale's dying prayer, an English Bible stood in every parish church. The frontispiece design by Holbein is very elaborate. The Almighty, with outstretched arms, is in the 490 clouds. 'Two scrolls with inscriptions proceed out of His mouth, to left and right. We see King Henry VIII seated on his throne, holding in each hand a Bible, and Cranmer and Cromwell distributing Bibles to priests and laymen. Henry had broken with the Pope, and one of his reforms was to popularize the Bible, under the influence of Thomas Cromwell who published the books. Each parish priest was obligated to have one copy in his home and another in his church. The low purchase fee of ten shillings for the Bible, unbound, and twelve for a bound copy, was fixed. The King "marvelled greatly" when he learned that his command had not been fulfilled in certain churches. He immediately. Fixed a fine of forty shillings a month on any church which failed to comply with his order. It was proclaimed that the King's loving subjects should have and use said Bibles "humbly, meekly, reverently, and obediently." They were not to read them with "loud and high voices." The people would gather round these large Bibles chained to a lectern, or reading desk, and patiently wait their turn. Cromwell, himself, was later executed. HE real pride of the British Museum is probably its recent acquisition of the Codex Sinaiticus, the oldest version of the New Testaiment known, dating from the middle of the 4th century. This was purchased from the Russian Government for half a million dollars. Naturally, one wonders why such a sum should be expended for an incomplete text of our Scriptures, with so many copies already in existence. So one learns what is possible about these modest looking sheets of fine vellum, with four columns of Greek uncials to a page. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The German scholar, Tischendorf, who discovered this manuscript in the Monastery of St. Catherine, on Mt. Sinai, was himself a Crusader in the cause of truth. His battle was against the skeptics, who were accumulating evidence and criticism to indicate the Gospels were not written until at least the fourth century after Christ. John's Gospel has been assailed more frequently than the other three. Tischendorf spent years of research gathering evidence of the authenticity of the Gospels. His purpose was only to build up his readers "'in their most holy faith." Determination, zeal, scholarship and faith the brilliant young man possessed, but all of these combined could not accomplish his end without a great deal of money as well. He was granted seventy-five dollars by the German Minister of Public Worship and practically without purse or scrip set out on his great adventure. Partly he supported himself by his pen while he worked. Partly he was helped by men who had faith in him. The story of his accidental discovery of 129 pages of the Sinaitic Manuscript in a wastebasket ready to be consigned to the flames is most absorbing. Unfortunately, part of the sheets had already been burned. He obtained forty-three of these leaves as a gift, but could not acquire the rest, when the monks learned that value was attached to them. Years of patient diplomacy were required before he received the remaining sheets. They were presented, through him, to the Russian Government by the Monastery, and a certain sum was given to the Monastery in return. The British Government acquired the Codex in 1933. The real value of this book is in the evidence it gives that the Gospels HALF A MILLION DOLLARS FOR A BIBLE did arise in the apostolic period. This Codex is helpful in establishing a belief of Tischendorf's, which is difficult to dispute, that the Gospels were in actual use in the Church by the end of the first century. The Codex Sinaiticus contains about half of the Old Testament, the New Testament entire, and two uncanonical works, one of them 'The Shepherds of Hermos," a satire on the abuses that existed in the early church. This is enlightening to the student of church history. Like other martyrs to truth, Tischensdorf faced hardship, privation, and slander. But his contributions are of the greatest value. They have "neutralized to every unprejudiced mind" the doubts raised by critics ''as to the genuineness of St. 491 John's Gospel'? Comments his translator. After one of Tischensdorf's addresses, a German editor wrote of him: "As a critic he is on ground on which he has no rival. When history speaks, it is the duty of philosophy to be silent." "TI would rather have discovered this Sinaitic manuscript than the Koh-i-noor (great diamond) of the Queen of England," said one emi nent scholar. And the opinion of the British Government is, "If the transfer of the Codex Sinaiticus from Russia to London will help to stimulate the British people to a renewed personal, individual, and family interest in the teaching of God's word, it will be worth £100,000 many times over."' >———~le EGR ote-—___~< FAITH.