[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 692 | Fiction | Beauty Is For Every Home Tasma | P. Dansie]

Beauty Is For Every Home
Tasma P. Dansie

♦ One evening just at twilight, as I was returning home, I passed by the open door of an apartment, and my eyes caught sight of a beautifully appointed table, which I shall never forget.

The light of sunset was pouring in through the two windows, fairly lighting up the room but, especially, falling on the round table covered with an exquisite lace cloth gracefully touching the floor! A vase of white rosebuds centered the table, with lighted candles at each of the two places throwing a glow on the elegant pieces of silver and beautiful china.

The lovely picture is still in my mind's vision and will never leave me. It gave me much food for thought. It was apparent that the table was beautifully prepared, as if some honored guest was expected to dine that evening.

After reaching home and starting to prepare my own evening meal, I felt as if I could not take the dishes of food out of my refrigerator and place them on the kitchen table to eat. The very thought revolted me.

So I decided, why not set my own table beautifully, even if I was alone? I had linens and silverware and pretty dishes. If I did not set a beautiful table, I would be admitting, at least to myself, that I was not equally as nice nor as important as the guest my friend was expecting.

I then remembered my own lovely mother's teaching—that anything worth doing, was worth doing well. I also recalled a fine talk given to my Gleaner class years ago by a granddaughter of Brigham Young, who told us that she never remembered her family ever sitting down to a dinner where a lovely clean tablecloth, sparkling crystal, silverware, and beautiful china did not adorn the table. And always with a lovely centerpiece of some kind. She told use how shocked she was whenever her friends invited her to lunch, where paper was used instead of linens, and never napkins.

Her many interesting stories and experiences made a lasting impression on me, and I must admit that no matter how good the food is, it seems to taste better when served with thought and care in a lovely way. It adds charm, character, and dignity to us, as well as to the food.

CHICKEN "LABSCOVS" LUNCHEON (Continued from page 681)

minutes. Pour the liquid back on the mushrooms and cook for a few minutes. Add the chicken bouillon cubes and 1 cup chicken stock. Add cubed chicken and place mixture in a casserole baking dish. Cover with spiced potatoes, place lid on casserole, and bake for 35 minutes at 325°.

Use the remainder of the chicken stock for gravy, thickening it with the flour, and adding the remainder of the butter.

Spiced Potatoes
2 tbsp. flour                          2 tbsp. onions, finely minced (or
2 eggs                                 1 tbsp. minced dried onions)
3 tbsp. melted butter                  2½ c. cooked mashed potatoes
2 tbsp. chives, cut in very small pieces

Beat the flour into the eggs and add butter, chives, and onions. Stir mixture into the potatoes and beat until light. Spread over the chicken-mushroom mixture and bake. Serves about 12.

Asparagus (can be served cold or hot)
Clean about 60 stocks of asparagus and cut off the tough part of the bottoms of the stocks. Stand asparagus upright in kettle and add enough water (salted to taste) to cover four or five inches of the bottom of the kettle. Cook until the stalks are tender, but not overdone. Pour off liquid and arrange asparagus carefully on a platter, so as not to break the stalks. Place the stalks in five or six bunches and pour sauce into or over the middle of the arrangement, so that it will look like a trimming or a ribbon.

692
