[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 671 | Special Feature | The Crafts of Mexico | Claire Noall]
e y The Crafts of Mexico Claire Noall @ Mexico's remarkable heritage from the past plays an important part in her current development of the crafts. More than a million and a half artisans are inevitably linked to the tradition that prevailed five hundred years ago, when objects of strange and magnificent worth were sent from Mexico to Spain. Such works were fashioned by people of peculiar skill, themselves inheritors of a still more ancient craftsmanship in gold, silver, feathers, textiles, pottery, and stone. In what is now Southern Mexico, stone carvings, with a system to denote numbers as part of the decor in bas-relief, appeared before the time of Christ. Still, certain motifs from various cultures even then sounded a tonic chord, elusive yet dominant, relating one area to another and furnishing a music of the heart that cast far-reaching echoes. Many of the twenty-four branches of officially listed crafts today reflect in one way or another the ancient trends of calendar stone, feathered headdress, plumed serpent, geometrical design, and the rounded human figures of the unique reliefs of the South. Yet certain productions, such as the handsome silverwork at Taxco are completely modern. Achievement quite often depends upon the availability of materials. Silver is mined at Taxco. Gems, both precious and semiprecious, are dug at Querétaro and Guanajuato, where fine jewelry, interestingly patterned, is easily available. Cholula, near Mexico City, and Oaxaca, near the isthmus, produce splendid tiles and pottery from local clays. Cattle roam the northern plains and, consequently, Monterrey features leather goods. However, good leather-work may be bought in almost any city. This overlapping of distribution in contrast to purely local displays brings us naturally to the subject of bazaars — a pageantry that remains for the visitor as a color picture of the inner eye. My first experience was at Mazatlan. Then, at Guadalajara, I roamed other markets in more vastly covered areas. I laughed in Tlaquepaque, the small neighboring village whose pottery, glass, and copper goods are strange in design but enchanting. Then, again, I idled among purely open-air stalls and booths. Had it not been for a guide at Morelia, I should definitely have missed a shop behind some seemingly closed doors in a solid wall of residential houses. Here lacquer trays, plaques, woolen stoles, blouses omamented with drawn work and embroidery, besides guitars, tambourines, and cross-stitched linen cloths were attractively displayed and priced Despite the various methods of distribution and production, the industry as a whole is of tremendous importance to the national economy and social development. But before glancing at the mechanics of the trade, let us enjoy seeing it in operation.

[The Crafts of Mexico Claire Noall]

671 September 1967

 My husband and I entered Mexico at Nogales, in our own car, and thus realized the excitement of self-directed discovery. We loved the strange sights and sounds so near our home, yet so far away from one who will not venture forth. At Mazatlan I could hardly contain myself for the unexpected joy of finding great crowds of people swarming into the market with their wares, and as purchasers. The whole town came alive for the mercado. Tubs of spicy carnations decorated the sidewalk. Suddenly all this was forgotten. My eyes focused on a middle-aged Indian woman's beauty of countenance. Round-faced, gray-haired, with braids falling over brightly shawled shoulders, she could have been a painting. She watched her flowers as she sat on the ground, selling as she could. For the covered market let ls go to Guadalajara, although some of the display there was not handcrafted by native people, still I found a generous supply when I sought it out: quaint ducks of rough pottery, jugs, leather purses for my small granddaughters, and a rough straw hat to guard me from the sun. In Guadalajara's underground market, which opens beyond the foot of a sidewalk stairway, I found trays of semiprecious stones for my artist cousin, and I later purchased jewels of finer quality near Querétaro. Fortunately, I had been directed to visit the craft center at Santa Clara, near Lake Patzcuaro. Otherwise, I might have left this exquisite area after seeing the boatmen with their butterfly nets — two-winged, gracefully curved snares for catching fish near the island. I might have been satisfied with the linen-like towels, ornamented with drawn work, handmade, which I bought from two peasant women on the street. I had heard of the craft center. I found it typical of the entire industry as plied on a national level. It is a teaching center where young girls serve as apprentices. They beam with happiness, for they enjoy the social improvement that learning a craft affords. Their hands are supple and their understanding deepened through the language arts taught in connection with the trade. In the display room I found some of the finest handwork in all Mexico—exquisite trays decorated with a kind of revived exactness. The paints and lacquers applied to a wooden base are safe against stain and corrosion. Pure gold is used in fine lines and delicate patterns. Dyes are made from iron-saturated clays and rocks of the lake country. Stylized desert flowers and exotic birds are related to, yet different from the archeological patterns, and furnish new excitement. At a roadside table in the Valley of Mexico, I purchased a luncheon cloth of maguey "linen." As from flax comes the damask of Ireland;- and from the pineapple plant and certain grasses, Philippine linen; just so, in Mexico, the thread of the maguey cactus is woven into an attractive fabric. My white cloth is trimmed with a border of coppercolored ducks, whose threads are dyed with local agents: flowers, leaves, clays. At Pejiefiel, a glorified spa, I found pink onyx beads, as later I came across mother-of-pearl jewelry at Monterrey. But to refer again to 672 Mexico's remarkable heritage from the past plays an important part in the current development of crafts. Oaxaca. I saw in the museum there ancient ornaments of gold, taken from a tomb at nearby Monte Alban. They represent a culture whose complete story still eludes us. And at Mitla, thirty miles east of Oaxaca, exquisitely arranged geometrical patterns of wrought stone lie open to the sun. A whole series of palace walls is decorated with these small blocks, shaped with special stone implements. The roofs are gone, but much of the intricate design remains to enrich the national heritage. Fine featherwork is no longer attempted, because the birds of the brilliant plumage of the past have mainly disappeared. The costumes for the Folklorica Ballet which represent ancient and magnificent headdresses and breastplates now use painted feathers. Gone, also, are the mosaics of butterfly wings, and the lace that was so fine it cannot be profitably produced at today's wages. Still, the industry, though intended to help both workmen and nation, also fosters some traditional customs. The boy at the potter's wheel in Oaxaca turns out jars and urns which are later glazed with the remarkably beautiful black finish for which Oaxaca is famous. And the Saturday market on the public square of this once grandly colonial city still follows its ancient pattern. All this is in sharp contrast to the sophisticated shops of Taxco. Come with me up the sidewalk-road that spirals almost vertically over an ore-rich slope. The stores level off along the climb in steps, at 673 (i ¢ Pal. = < - ce OF ak, gy N has eo) a N, - ' ae o: / a a _—— ry ae ae = » oO ap O and po and gold DIO O a a O Oda ) / A Heritage in Color—the Market at Mazatlan. Transparencies by the author any of which we long to stop. Jewelry, gems, and silverware, handsomely produced, are displayed on every side. Both the Federal and State governments sponsor teaching centers in various cities. Well-paid occupations result from the apprenticeships. Colleges are urged by the Government to encourage students to cultivate worth and lasting beauty in design and workmanship. Supervised distribution is practiced on a national and an international level. Mexican handcrafts compete favorably with products of many countries. Interestingly, one may find marked talent among the peasants, mostly unrecognized, insufficiently remunerated. I brought nothing home from Mexico I cherish more than a small hand-molded "corn goddess," apparently designed from an artifact. It was thrust through the open window of our car, along with a dozen objects in which I could see no value. Intuitively, I selected the piece I now appreciate for its mark of the genuine, and for its echoes. Unheralded, unlisted, it has a mysterious beauty of its own, this small, sun-dried mother figure. The national talent must surely feed upon such strains, spontaneous as they are. Although some of them appear among the uneducated, they may eventually produce works of genius, such as the tiled mosaics of University City, and the frescoed murals of international fame. The warmth of the people, the characteristic excitement of the crafts call for a return visit to beautiful Mexico. Pasadena Stake (California) Spring Fashion Show "April In Paris" Upper picture: Trudy Thody, Secretary-Treasurer, serves at the punch bowl; lower picture: Cheryl Dee Young, Terry Lee Young, and Daryl Young model ''look-alike'' costumes. Jasmine Ballard is president of Pasadena Stake Relief Society. $ 2 is Sigh: * wis Nae Sa Sl at SA Free Lance Photographers Guild Farm House at Copeau, Chamonix, France. Mont Blanc in the background.