[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 709 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message Loving Oneself and Others Alice | Colton Smith]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE—Truths To Live By Message 3—Loving Oneself and Others Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: Understanding and loving oneself is an integral part of Donald Keith Basher killed two women while he robbed their apartments. For these crimes he was executed. Before he died, in a tape recorded interview. With a newspaper man, which was later broadcast, he was asked why he killed the women. Donald answered, "I don't know." A mother spanked her child in hot anger when he mistakenly broke a dish. An adolescent ran away from home even though his parents said that they "had given him everything." An unwed girl became pregnant and came in panic to a counselor. A despairing teen-ager threatened suicide. A young man drove his car too fast, killing his best friend in the ensuing accident. Each one, when asked the question, '""Why did you do it?" answered, "I don't know." How could they live well with others when they were unaware of the reasons for their own emounderstanding and loving others. Tions and actions? Is it possible that these actions reflected a dislike of and unhappiness with themselves? If one cannot understand oneself, how can he know if he loves or if what he calls love is really another emotion in disguise? Is it love when a parent forces a child into a lucrative occupation or one carrying much prestige for which the child is poorly suited, doing it "for the child's own good''? Is it love when a mother keeps her children so busy at home that they never have time to play because "the neighbor's children have germs'? Is it love when a mother makes her child into a musical virtuoso only so that she can bask in reflected glory? Is it love when a woman nags her husband and children because they'll "never amount to anything if I don't"? Long ago Socrates, one of the 

709 September 1967

 world's great philosophers, advised, "Know thyself." Christ taught "... Know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" (John 8:32), and "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Matt. 19:19). To us, through Joseph Smith, the Lord said, "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" (D&C 131:6). How can a child know what a loving person is and follow his or her example, if he does not live with one? How can we be free to understand and love others, if we do not understand and love ourselves? How and where can we find the necessary knowledge? By studying God's teachings; by studying good books written by dedicated, interested, and knowledgeable authors (libraries have many); by learmming about different cultures, values, social classes, and traditions; by understanding the social-emotional needs common to all men; by prayer and meditation; by much self-examination (not rationalization and justification); and by much practice, one can grow to understand and love himself and others.; HOMEMAKING—Development Through