[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 678 | Fiction | Luminous Gold Leafing | Bette McDonough]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Standing at the left, second row: Verena B. Easton, holding decorative plaque; Bette McDonough, work meeting leader.

LUMINOUS
GOLD LEAFING

Betty McDonough
Work Meeting Leader

Verena B. Easton, President
Whittier Stake (California)

Bringing the "Midas touch" into your home will give many hours in the creative pleasure of gold leafing, and will provide original and distinctive gifts for relatives and friends. Use your imagination in selecting objects for gold leafing — fruits, flowers, figurines, wall plaques, vases, and many other decorative motifs. Gold leafing may be applied to glass, ceramics, plaster, china, metal, leather, or paper articles.

Materials needed:
1. Clear enamel or plastic spray for sealing porous objects, such as wood or plaster of Paris. (Glass or porous objects do not require sealing.)
2. Orange or red fast-drying enamel.
3. Adhesive (gold sizing)
4. Gold leafing ("Dutch Metal" imitation gold, or gold leafing)
5. Burnt umber (in tube)
6. Glaze (clear enamel or plastic for final coat)
7. Brushes (one ½" brush for adhesive and glazing; one 2" soft brush for gold leafing; one small, soft brush for gold leafing)
8. Felt for base of object.

Method or Basic Steps
1. Select clean, dry object, and, if necessary, seal with clear enamel or plastic; allow to dry.
2. Apply orange or red paint and allow to dry.

678

[PHOTOGRAPH]

J. M. Heslop

Gold leaf articles displayed at Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1966

3. Apply adhesive and wait one to ten hours for thorough drying.
4. Apply gold leaf and wipe off excess.
5. Seal with a good even coat of clear varnish or plastic. Dry.
6. Mix tube of burnt umber and ¼ pint glaze. Apply with brush and wipe of excess with paper towels. Dry thoroughly.
7. Spray or paint with coat of clear varnish or plastic for protection.
8. Apply felt to bottom, for professional touch.

Helpful Hints for Success

1. Always hold objects upside down first when painting or glazing, finishing right side up.
2. Cover thoroughly with the first coat of paint. Give two or three coats, if necessary, to very porous surfaces. Let dry completely.
3. When applying adhesive, work in for about five minutes after covering.
4. Adhesive will disappear from sight when "tacky" — about one hour is right.
5. Pick up gold leaf sheets and apply one at a time. Sheets will tear, but that is all right. Smooth with a soft brush and fingers. Work into small places with a small brush. Patch spots with small pieces. Let a certain amount of the red show through, as it gives that "old world" look. Don't apply the gold leaf in a draft. Brush off excess.
6. After sealing the gold leaf, let article dry completely.
7. Do your glazing outdoors or in the garage. The amount of glaze you leave on depends on how you want the object to look. Rub harder in some spots to "high-light" the area.
8. Always wash the adhesive brush with water immediately. Clean the glaze brush with paint thinner.
9. If some spots do not take gold leaf, apply more adhesive to these and do over, between steps 4 and 5.

679
