[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 691 | Special Feature | "Life From Death" (Breinholt) Floyd | E. Breinholt]
"Life From Death" by Floyd E. Breinholt, American Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 6 "The Substance of Faith'' Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Associate Professor of Art Brigham Young University @ Art is concerned with the expression of personal aesthetic or spiritual experiences. It is an attempt to make concrete some rather intangible truth discovered by the artist. Because each artist is different, his interpretation will be unique. In the search, discovery, and organization of this truth into perceptible form, man discovers joy—a feeling of well-being, of inner peace—that for which all men search. Joy is a result of the creative process. Perhaps the greatest joy one can receive in this life is to be a co-partner with God in the creation of another human soul. The experience of joy is accompanied by a feeling of gratitude. Gratitude fosters faith—faith in oneself, faith in others, and faith in God. Art often becomes a hymn of praise or a prayer of gratitude. I receive much joy from my work in art and as a teacher, and am grateful to the sisters of the General Board of the Relief Society for asking me to present one of my paintings here and to write this brief note. Perhaps a description of how this painting came to be will be of interest. On each of our painting vacations to the Teton National Park, in Wyoming, over the past years, my family and I would drive by a large tree stump just off the highway near Jenny Lake. We finally stopped to look closer. The beautiful grays and soft textures of the old wood were fascinating. As we walked around it, we discovered a young tree growing from the decayed roots of the old one, and I decided to make a sketch and some color notes. Drawing forced me to look closer (drawing does this). The grains in the wood twisted and formed patterns around places where the branches had been. Some areas were bleached by the sun, and others, mellowed by decay, had become brilliant ochres and browns. As the sketch progressed, I was impressed with the strength of the old tree and how, even in death, it was sheltering, protecting, and nourishing the young one. Almost unconsciously I gradually began to dramatize this idea. By placing the horizon low and allowing the lone tree to project high into a stormy sky, it created a feeling of power, dimension, and mood. Later, while working on this painting in my studio, I once again experienced the same feeling of awe and gratitude I often have when alone in the mountains, deserts, or ghost towns—a feeling difficult to describe. It isn't really loneliness, but one of identification with something greater than myself—calm and peaceful. I wanted to be able to express what Harrison R. Merrill says in the first stanza of his poem, which I have tacked to the wall of my studio: Oh, God, let this be heaven... I do not ask for golden streets Or long for jasper walls, Nor do I sigh for pearly shores Where twilight never falls; Just leave me here beside these peaks, In this rough western land. I love this dear old world of thine.. Dear God, you understand.
(Reprinted by permission of The Improvement Era) 691