[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 652 | Special Feature | A Mother's Point of View Seminary and Institute in Your Child's Future Marilyn | N. Hull]
Mother's Point of View Seminary and Institute in Your Child's Future a Marilyn N. Hull « There was the fourteen-yearold girl who ran up to my husband after Church, to shake his hand as firmly as a missionary, to welcome him to her home town as the new Seminary teacher; there was the boy with a bitter feeling toward life, until his teacher took him rabbit hunting in the snow; there was the only 652 boy my husband expelled from class for misconduct, who later wrote the prize-winning poem in a Seminary writing contest. These were a part of the sudden flood of individuals and experiences that faced us that first year of my husband's teaching in the Seminary system. We were recently such mere specks among the world's conglomeration of students ourselves, we were practically stunned, attending service that first Sunday, when people referred to us as Brother and Sister Hull. (I must admit, I felt as pleased as a girl on her first date.) Were our experiences different, or were those students' experiences unique among teenage Seminary students? I don't know of a year in my husband's teaching, both on the high school and college level, that such experiences haven't occurred almost weekly; and I know that other Seminary and Institute of Religion teachers have nearly all known similar experiences. My husband and I were probably quite average as a young married couple that first teaching year, so why did the girl who wanted an ideal marriage make so much of ours? Was this a clue? Was it because of her need for us to be more ideal? (And this did cause me to think seriously.) Teenage boys and girls want standards, and they want people with whom they can identify and look to each day of their lives— not just on Sunday. The home is, or should be, the most important place for this to occur. But we know, too, that at this teen age, where young people strive for independence, they Seminary and Institute in Your Child's Future must have experiences that are different, and with other adults than those whom they find at home. They identify with their peer group, too, and it becomes important to them to be on the same path with their friends. The environment and _ teachings that they find in Seminary and Institute are important to their development. The daily home experience is the anchor, but they cannot harbor at home always; they feel a healthy surge for adventure and finding new horizons; they must launch out on their own—well, not completely alone, for they will stay close to their teachings of home and the Church. The week-day religious education program re-enforces the teachings of the home during the Seminary years. Then, later, when they want to seek advanced learning, not only in secular fields but in the gospel, too, and when they want social contact with people of their own age and religion, those are the Institute years. As parents, how can we be sure, in this world of increasing corruption, that among the dazzling, bright trinkets of life,-there:-will -. Also be in our children' s daily experiences a standard of righteousness? 'Teenagers feel a need to identify with some adults outside of the home circle. In some cases they are testing to see if the world is as solid as the home, and sometimes they are searching for "footing" that is more secure than that they have at home. The Seminary and Institute environments help young people to form a proper sense of values. Teachers know it is important to recognize each student by name and to have as much personal contact with that student as possible; they do enlistment work outside their regular duties; and they prepare daily, in order that the lessons may have a "freshness" and meaning for that very day in the student's life. The teacher feels a dependence on prayer for assistance in helping the student to feel the spirit of God in his own bosom—for God is, after all, the anchor and guide. As a Seminary student and later as an Institute student, and still later as a Seminary and Institute teacher's wife, I have been influenced by the Church's religious education system for more than half my life. Aad, as a mother, I feel the same concern all mothers feel for their children's learning, association, and experience. J am concerned that my children become more exposed to the scholarly aspects of our religious history and doctrine than there is time for in once-a-week Sunday lessons; and I want them to have student-centered lessons on how to live every day. We be- _lieve in eternal progression—not.. Only-in the idea, but in acre < participating in it. The high school I attended was fun and it was busy—but some-. Times it was so fun and so busy. That one didn't always stop to evaluate. The hour each day I took Seminary, which began with devotionals and ended with lessons of eternal truths, gave me the opportunity to get hold of myself. There were dates and other "fun" times in which I could clearly see a choice coming my way, that I must make, between 

653 September 1967

 proper and improper conduct. Almost always, along with my parents' eyes making a picture in my mind, were the eyes and the sound of my Seminary teacher's voice reinforcing the teachings of my parents. This helped me make the proper decisions. Another factor was that I sat in Seminary class surrounded by my classmates and friends. It was as though they were a second witness that what I was learning was right, and I could not let them down, nor let myself down in their eyes. Later, I remember being greatly pleased at my Seminary graduation, because the teachers cared enough to make the event a beautifully prepared highlight of memories. And then came higher learning and being away from home. I attended college where I felt I must clearly make a choice of what I would do with my life. I found that at the Institute of Religion, in the student organizations, there were social life and friends of the very type that I wanted. And there were the counsel and evidence of the faculty members and their wives. It is true that students do identify with their elder leaders, and some impressions are lifelong. I also found opportunities to develop and to use my talents at the Institute: teaching dances, directing a roadshow, giving talks or readings in Sunday meetings. There were numerous opportunities for those who were musically inclined. Too, ranging from guitar solos to singing in the choir. I found good friends, and, when I was lonely, I liked to go there because I felt at home and at peace. It is good, too, when we evaluate, to realize that this week-day religious education program is continually being improved by the dedication and insight of men who care. Care for what? They care for your son and your daughter. Once when I heard Elder Paul H. Dunn of the First Council of the Seventy, in talking in behalf of the International Latter-day Saint Student's Association, fervently proclaim, "I would gladly give my life if it would help a boy or a girl!"" my own heart reverberated, ""He means what he says." This is the type of concern and leadership awaiting young Zion, members of a Church destined to fill the whole earth. Let us envision within our hearts and realize that the Seminary and Institute cause is also our cause, and that it is there to assist us in doing that which is best for our families — to bring them into personal joy, satisfac- 7 DRIFTWOOD Maude O. Cook It is not the seconds the clock ticks off, Nor the days as they come and go, That determines our course on the stream of life, But whether we drift or row. Tion, and eternal life.