[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 665 | Fiction | The Golden Chain Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Hazel | M. Thompson]
[The Golden Chain Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Hazel M. Thompson]

665 September 1967

 you to drink it. I can't drink it because I'm accountable for my sins." Then, surely, I'm accountable, too, thought Nora, and it's time I was acting accordingly. Nora realized that Trudy had been the reason in another way that her own faith had begun to grow. It had been at the little girl's funeral that Nora first heard about temple work for the dead and families being sealed together for eternity. Now that she was able to admit a growing interest in becoming a member, her desire to have this work done for her parents and be sealed to them, became a driving force. Now that she had made up her mind, she lost no time in putting her desires into action. She walked over to the Oliver farm that afternoon where she found Ben and Free hoeing weeds out of the potato patch. "Did you come to help, Miss Blake?" Ben asked, grinning as he wiped his forehead on_ his sleeve. "No, not exactly,'"? Nora answered. "I've come to ask a favor. I want to borrow a horse." "Now, that's a coincidence," said Ben. "Coincidence?" "Yes. I was just telling Grandfather. Yesterday was the day to open another of Jed's letters. It said that I was to take Duke over to you so you'd have a horse when you wanted one. I intended to bring him over, soon as I got these weeds out." His mention of the letters brought to Nora's mind the one with her name on it. Her name 33 666 and When. When. When? She had tried saying the word in various ways, but it still held no meaning for her. When. When what? She had asked herself this over and over. Surely Ben must know. But she could not, would not ask him. For the present she must wait. "Are you going somewhere special, Miss Blake," Ben asked, "'or just riding?". "Yes," said Nora. "I'm going somewhere very special, and for a very special reason." She paused a moment, looking directly into Old Free's eyes. "I'm going to ride over to the Shepherd's and ask the bishop to baptize me. I want it done tomorrow and I want you both to be there." The old man understood Nora's look. He drew his hand slowly down over his beard. "I'm waiting for Jed," he said. The bishop did not seem at all surprised. "I knew it," he said. "That day in the store I knew all you needed was a little more time. We can go up here to the canal. It's full of irrigation water this time of year." "I was hoping the little stream that runs through my place would do. I'd like very much to be baptized there." "Well, now, I hadn't thought of that, but I'm sure it will do." "Oh, Nora!" exclaimed Mrs. Shepherd, hugging her. "I'm so happy about it. 'J] cook up some chicken and we'll have a picnic afterward at your place." The next morning Nora was up early. She cleaned the little cabin scrupulously shining. Then she baked a big pan of biscuits and made a cake, singing as she worked, enjoying each task, each minute of this most important day. She thought of it over and over. She, Nora Blake, was about to be baptized and become a member of the only true Church on the face of the earth. She wished Jed were here. How she would like to tell him of her decision. She tried to imagine what his reaction would be when he did hear the news. Her feeling of happiness, of well-being, persisted, and as the bishop led her gently from the water, she felt the greatest peace she had ever known. She had taken the first step. Soon, now, very soon, she would have the links completed in her own golden chain, that chain Jed had spoken of at Trudy's funeral. L. Was a joyous group that gathered in the little grove behind Nora's cabin. "Wow! This chicken tastes good!" said Ben, reaching for his third piece. "Ben misses Jed when it comes to cooking," said Free, smiling. "He doesn't think I do quite such a good job." "You do fine, Grandfather," said Ben. "Even Jed can't fry chicken like this. But I do miss him." "We all do," said the bishop. "I wish particularly that he could be with us today." He looked at Nora. "Jed will be mighty happy about what has happened," he said. Nora's eyes fell under his glance but her heart pounded. Ben waited until the others had taken their leave before giving her the letter. "It's from Jed,"' he said. "'He The Golden Chain wrote it first of all, but told me to keep it until the day you were baptized." When she joined the Church! Of course! How could she have failed to grasp his meaning at once? She marveled that Jed had written When and not If. He had known better than she had known herself. As Ben followed Free toward home, she opened the letter eagerly. Dear Nora, This will be the one day of all my mission when I shall be wishing I could be back in Banner. I will not know which day it happens, until it is over, but this much I feel certain of—that it will happen. It seems that I have known this, almost from the moment I met you, that sometime you would see your way clear to join the Church. I could not speak, hcwever, until you did so. And now, my Dear, my very Dear Nora, that you have, will you marry me? I realize I am asking a great deal of you, to wait for me for such a long time. Only the fact that I have reasons to believe that you feel as I do gives me the courage to ask. I can only hope and pray that this is true. Write to me, Nora. Write to me and tell me what I am waiting so anxiously to hear. All my love, Jed Oliver Nora -read the letter through three times. It occurred to her that she was learning more than the letter actually said. She was learning that although she had accused him otherwise, there had always been one thing that had meant more to Jed than his land 

667 September 1967

 —his testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And she was learning that, under no conditions, would he ever have married outside his Church. At that moment she knew that had she failed to accept the truth, Jed Oliver would have remained silent. He never would have spoken of his love. It was like Jed to leave the decision entirely in her hands, hoping that by so doing, her own conviction would be as strong as his own, Nora concluded. When the day came that Ben brought the first letter from Jed, with his address in England on it, Nora had her reply all written and ready to mail. She re-read it before sealing the envelope. Dear Jed, I have answered your letter many times in my thoughts while waiting for your address to arrive. And now that it has come, all I can think to say is Yes! Oh, yes, Jed! I will wait this year and the next year, and as long as it takes for you to finish your work and come home. I would have liked to have had you baptize me, but I could not wait as your Grandfather is determined to do. I have so much to learn and so much service I must give, as you are doing, that I, too, may grow in the gospel. There will be so much you must teach me when you return, but I am making a beginning by teaching a Sunday School class. The students ail know more than I do, but I am trying, and studying very hard, and making progress I am sure. Love, always Nora She kept the letter short purposely, limiting it largely to the pledge that was now given between the two of them. She cherished the thought, held it close to her, unready yet to share her secret with anyone else. 668 Nora spent a good many hours tramping the woods on and near her place, collecting, always collecting things which held promise of added interest for her school program. By autumn, she had a varied and large assortment of moths and butterflies, having to dig into her science book to identify many of them. She found a large beaver log, showing not only the teeth marks of the beaver where he had cut the tree, looking so very much like the work of an expert with an axe, but also showing where he had attempted to cut the log into lengths he could handle before something or someone had frightened him away. She found a variety of empty bird nests and then, on days when she rode Duke to the nearby hills, she came back loaded with rocks and fossils. The week before school started she and Bishop and Sister Shepherd boarded the train for a trip to Salt Lake City. Nora was excitedly happy. "I've wanted to see Salt Lake," she said, as the train moved into Utah, through the fields filled with harvest workers, ''ever since I came West. And to swim in the lake if we can find the time." They found the time, and time also to see "Richard III." The year's school went quickly for Nora. True, it had been measured out day by day, as Jed once said he liked his days to be, but when summer came again, and she looked back at her second year of teaching, the days had welded themselves into one continuous pleasant experience. When she next wrote to Jed, Nora was fairly glowing with happiness. The very best part, however, she saved until the last of her letter. How wonderful it was to receive my blessings in the temple. Surely nothing on earth could be nearer to heaven than that beautiful place. I reminded myself that you, also, had been where I was, and that one day we would both return, together. Bishop Shepherd did the work for my father, as did his wife for my mother. As I heard myself being sealed, at last, to my parents, I thought my heart would burst with happiness. Nora had added a ninth grade in order to keep working with Ben and Ed and Joe. There was a movement underway to get a high school in the valley, but it would take time to get it going. The boys' attitude had been quite different from the previous year. Nora mentioned this to Free on her first day back at her cabin. "They really wanted to learn this year," she said. 'They seemed to have found out something about the satisfaction that comes from achieving, and I'm convinced that it was the wood carving that started it all." Free looked pleased with her praise, sitting in her little rocker. Nora felt a kinship with the old man and, suddenly, on an impulse said, "I just want you to know how much I appreciate what you did—Grandfather." The old man stared at her. "Grandfather?" he asked finally. "Well, you aren't really, of course. Not yet. But when Jed comes home, I... We... We're going to be married." The Golden Chain Free drew a long breath and through his beard Nora could see his biggest smile. —'Nothing, no nothing in this wide world could please me more than to hear that."" He smoothed the long white beard with his fingers, as he did when he was pleased or thoughtful. "And don't you forget." He shook a bony finger in her direction. "From now on, I'm not just 'Old Free.' I really am Grandfather." It wasn't like him to visit every day, but on the following afternoon he was back, bringing Nora his half of the gold piece. "I guess Jed already told you the story about this?" he asked. "Yes," said Nora. 'He has." "He took his piece with him, of course, but I would like you to have mine." Nora removed the locket that had been her mother's from the chain around her neck, and slipped in its place the small piece of gold. She looked at it, gleaming against her dress. "Oh, thank you, Grandfather," she said. '"Thank you." And so the days passed. And the weeks. And the months. And two years were gone. And Jed was coming home. In her very last letter she changed from her usually serious attitude to one of joking with him, suggesting that perhaps, after all, the reason he had asked her to marry him was so he could get the piece of land, the piece he had wanted so very much at the time. But in his last letter to her, he did not see the situation in a humorous light. 

669 September 1967

 My Dearest Nora, Don't ever suggest, even in fun, that a piece of ground could have any im- « portance for me, compared to your love. When I get home I shall spend the rest of my life trying to convince you that this is so. Seriously, Nora, about the land. Ben has worked a good many years for me. One of these days he will be coming home from his own mission. When he does, he will have my piece of homestead land waiting for him. You might decide to do the same with yours. I know he means as much to you as he does to me. You will have to make tne decision yourself, of course. But this much I do know. I have enough land on my own place. How much land a man has isn't important, Nora. It's how he feels about it, what he does with it, and what the land does to him, that counts. My land isn't going to make me a slave to it. I have so much to learn when I get back, and so very much I must do for my Church. Yes, I have land enough. On the day of his arrival, Nora chose not to go to the station, 4 <, wishing instead to meet him at ' ¥ her own little cabin. She saw him coming as he vaulted the gate and I ran toward the house. She threw «7 4 open the door and rushed out. — % "Nora! Nora!" he breathed, and all her lonely hours faded as he gathered her into his arms. ~*7 " yn a > Se ¥ ey Fy 4 (q Just Desserts? Ruth G. Rothe Lo, these many years I've scorned those words, When on occasion they were said to me; Today, my son spoke them to his new wife, "Your pie isn't like my mother's used to be!!"' 670 ¢ Hs SA Ni Ay zs RO A.