[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 1 | Fiction | Throw Down the | Gauntlet Chapter]
[Throw Down the Gauntlet Chapter]
The Relief Society Magazine - September 1967, Vol. 54, No. 


 VOL. 54, NO. 9 Remembering Christie Lund Coles Each of us bears his rememberings Of the valley's slope or mountain's cleft; Each carries the memory in himself Which leaves him sustained or bereft. You may recall the geese returning, I, how they left. I, how the autumn curved above The lake in frail and transient tulle, The way the muted music sang In lowering streams that once were full, Aware of the misted air above me, Gray now... And cool. I will recall the swallow's leaving, How fragrant summer turned to pass Over the meadow, dark and fallow, Over the seared and withered grass, Newly aware of the leaves' soft grieving Like tinkling glass. Soon I shall recall spring and summer, too, But the remembering mind must do what it must do. The Cover: Autumn Day, Mount Timpanogos, Utah Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Evening Near Meeker, Colorado Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far Since we are so far from the center of the Church, our thoughts are often turned to our former homes, friends, and sisters in the Church, as we see the covers and read the pages of the Magazine. Sometimes we recognize a familiar name, or face, or place, or experience. More than this, however, is the truth of the gospel which the Magazine brings through its stories, poems, talks, essays, and thoughts. Thanks for the love you send each month through the Magazine. Kathleen J. Damron Apia, Upolu Western Samoa We are grateful for The Relief Society Magazines. They are becoming more beautiful each year. The covers are lovely, and the group pictures give us many splendid ideas. But most of all we love the hobby pages showing the dear sisters and their many talents, such as painting, quilt making, and all kinds of handicraft work. I would like to encourage the elderly sisters to putter around in their gardens. I would not have lived to be almost eighty years old had it not been for my outdoor activities. Sarah E. Peterson Sebastopol, California I have been a reader of The Relief Society Magazine through many years, and now I shall soon be eighty years of age. Of the many poems I have read and enjoyed in our great Magazine, none has hit my heart like Lael W. Hill's "Inviolate" (April frontispiece 1967). There is in the poem something that is beautifully new and yet is endless. Only the elements, the "wind, or rain and stone" can tell the soul that something. Her knowing insight combines in a sort of oneness both truth and beauty. Estella Cluff Freestone Los Angeles, California I offer my thanks for the marvelous Relief Society Magazine. What a privilege and honor it is to belong to the world-wide sisterhood. It brings tears to my eyes to think that wherever my daughter or I may go there is a hand waiting to welcome us with the loving sweetness that Relief Society sisters develop. Doreen S. Walsh Brecknell, Berkshire, England The beautiful color pictures and the lovely flowers, the green trees and lush vegetation, and the temple in New Zealand set my heart to racing with expectancy for spring ("New Zealand A Silhouette in Green," by Wealtha S. Mendenhall, March 1967). I very much enjoyed the story "To Warm the Heart" and the serial "The Golden Chain," both by the same lady (Hazel M. Thomson). Lillie Hendricks Big Springs, Texas Today the sun is shining and the spring signs are beginning to show, yet my heart and mind were drawn inward when I arose this day. I had two sorrows for which I had been searching for a way to express myself to these two beloved relatives. Then my Relief Society Magazine came, and as is my habit, I sat down to look through it and turned directly to page 289 (April) and the article "Into Every Life Some Rain Must Fall" (by Amy Giles Bond), then I went on to page 280 and found "Inner Struggles" (by Arlene Larsen Bascom). Here were the answers to my need for expression. I am borrowing these two articles from my friends so that I may send them to my dear sweet mother who is ill, and also to my dear niece who lost her young husband in Viet Nam last week. I thank you for a Magazine that has so much to offer the sisters in the gospel. Barbara P. Rushton Taylorsville, Utah Birthday Congratulations To September 8, 1967 ¢ Relief Society women throughout the stakes and missions of the Church join together:'on this September day to express love and appreciation for President David O. McKay. Over the years, his counsel has blessed the sisters in their homes, in their Relief Society organizations, and in their spiritual and cultural development. His words of comfort, encouragement, and inspiration have been a guiding light to the world-wide sisterhood. It is the hope and the prayer of Relief Society women that this ninety-fourth birthday of the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator will bring to him a realization of the gratitude and affection of the members of the Church who thank the Heavenly Father for a prophet in these latter days. Selections from President McKay's counsel to the sisters are reprinted here that Relief Society members throughout the world may partake again of words of faith and wisdom and eternal truth. MOTHERHOOD The noblest calling in the world is that of mother. True motherhood is the most beautiful of all arts, the greatest of all professions. She who can paint a masterpiece or who can write a book that will influence millions deserves the plaudits and admiration of mankind; but she who rears successfully a family of healthy, beautiful sons and daughters whose immortal souls will be exerting an influence throughout the ages long after painting shall have faded, and books and statues shall have been destroyed, deserves the highest honor that man can give. The mother's image is the first to impress itself on the unwritten page of the young child's mind. It is her caress that first awakens a sense of security; her kiss the first realization of affection; her sympathy and tenderness, the first assurance that there is love in the world...