[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 680 | Fiction | Spanish-American Branch Relief Society, Provo, Utah | ]
Spanish-American Branch Relief Society, Utah Stake, Provo, Utah Sisters modeling clothing made in homemaking meeting, left to right: Coy Guedes (Brazil); Sheryl Martineau (U. S. A.), Secretary-Treasurer; Lupe Flores (San Salvador); Estela McWhorter (San Salvador); Alicia Romney (Argentina), organist; Enriqueta Gomez (Mexico), President; Lupe Flores (San Salvador). Julia Panepucci de Mangum directed the sewing project. Clarice Sumpter is president of Utah Stake Relief Society. Caroline Hepworth, Gridley, California, Makes 239 Quilts Sister Hepworth is eighty-seven years old and still active as a member of Gridley Second Ward Relief Society. She has served as counselor to three ward presidents. Only a sampling of her quilts, colorful and intricate in design, can be illustrated in one picture. CHICKEN "LABSCOVS"' LUNCHEON Linnie F. Robinson I have heard this word and tasted this dish all my life. Since talking to my cousins all over the country, I find they are fond of this dish, but each has some slightly different version of it. The recipe_I-give, using chicken, is one mother made most often, but any meat could be cubstituted — beefsteak, beef cubes, lamb, mutton, veal, or lean pork. Transparency by; Dorothy J. Roberts Model Bonnie Christensen Chicken ''Labscovs'' 3 'tb. Frying chicken 8 ounces canned mushrooms 1 large onion, cut in small pieces (or stewed fresh mushrooms) or ground 1 package chicken bouillon cubes 2 gts. Water 34 cube butter (3 ounces) Y% tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Flour Simmer chicken with onion, in salt water, 114 hours. Pour off stock and keep for later use. Cool chicken, bone the meat, and cut into bitesize pieces. Drain the mushrooms, reserving the juice, and sauté in part of the butter for a few (Continued on page 692) 681 A CARDIGAN FROM SCRAPS OF WOOL Olive W. Burt @ Oh, those scraps of yarn! How they do accumulate when anyone does much knitting or crocheting. It is possible to use up larger amounts in some patterns. I made an attractive cardigan

with wide stripes of white, and narrower stripes of leftover tan and aqua. Another time, I used leftover orange and navy blue to make a checked sweater. Or, if there's enough, the yarn may be knit or crocheted into caps, bedroom slippers, or handbags. But these things do not use up the very small amounts, which are usually just thrown away. They need not be, however. When I was in Nassau with my daughter, we saw a cardigan imported from London selling for $95. My daughter drew a picture of it, and when we returned home, she collected all our small leftover yarns and reproduced the expensive model.