[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 713 | Lesson | Social Relations As a City on a Hill | Alberta H. Christensen]
~ 712 SOCIAL RELATIONS—A Light Unto the World Lesson 3—As a City on a Hill Alberta H. Christensen eeeence: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1967 Objective: Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 "Ye are the light: of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid" (Matt. 5:14). The Latter-day Saint woman may know the joy of being ''a light unto the world." INTRODUCTION Since, this lesson will be given in the month of December in the Northern Hemisphere, some aspects of the message of Christmas are incorporated. From definite scripture reference, directly revealed truth, and through a rational understanding of the gospel, we know that Christ is the Light of the World, the central figure in the plan of salvation. The Savior stated: "I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness" (John 8:12). AS A CITY ON A HILL The Savior taught the principles of his gospel in language his listeners could understand. He focused their thinking upon the familiar surroundings of their everyday life—the commonplace and the tangible. Then, with impressive simile and metaphor, he led them through parable or the more obvious story to the core of a principle he wished to. Instill into their minds and hearts. (See The Relief Society Magazine, July 1966, Social Relations Lesson 6 (18 in Series), pp. 550-551.) A city built upon a hill—with spires and roofs in silhouette against a noonday sky, its lighted windows a beacon in the night— is easily visible from lower elevations. A candle placed upon a candlestick, giving light to all that are in the house—how commonplace, how part of the familiar scene! From such as these, however, the Savior projected'an impressive image, indicating how the belief and the example of one individual life might influence other lives. We are far removed in time from that day in Galilee, perhaps in the year 28 A. D. (Clark, J. Reuben Jr., Our Lord of the Gospels, page 209), when Jesus uttered the words which form the crux of this lesson: Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house (Matt. 5:14, 15). All Christendom is grateful for Matthew's record of the Sermon on the Mount—that divine blueprint for spiritual growth and rewarding human relationships.

[Social Relations As a City on a Hill Alberta H. Christensen]

city on a hill? Jesus answers in these words: Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven (Matt. 5:16). Class Involvement 1. Why do you believe that the Savior's admonition applies to our day as well as to the meridian of time? 2. Do you think individuals making important contributions to mankind, besides those of a religious nature, are included in the following words: "that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven"? If so, why? Name a few instances. RESPONSIBILITY AND JOY Fundamental in the plan of the gospel is the concept of joy; the joy of knowing truth, of banishing error, of triumphing over sin, of experiencing love and _ personal spiritual growth. The quest for joy is the eternal quest, for "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). Mortal man cannot fully comprehend the joy which our Heavenly Father experiences when his children respond so completely to the light of his commandments that they progress rapidly toward their ultimate potential. We, his 714 children, may also experience joy, in a limited but like manner, when we are the means of bringing the light of understanding into the lives of others. In order to do so, we ourselves must possess that understanding, for we cannot give what we do not have to give. The Latter-day Saints have been given much light and truth. Questions 1. Do you believe Latter-day Saints have a greater responsibility to be as a light unto the world, than other people? Discuss briefly. 2. How may a Latter-day Saint woman, whose sphere of influence appears to be limited to her immediate family and neighborhood, be as a light unto the world? For Discussion Emphasize, by being specific, the joy of being a motivator for good in the following situations: 1 The teacher or Relief Society class leader who sees members of her class increase in mental alertness, and evidence intellectual growth. 2. The mother who sees her efforts to implant basic life values in her children, reflected in their lives. 8. The grandmother or great-grandmother who sees specific family standards and ideals being passed from generation to generation of her family, who may think with pride, 'This is what we believe and do in our family." 4. The woman who initiates a service program or other worthy activity and observes it being perpetuated in the neighborhood or community. Do these relate to the joy of being a light unto the world? (To class leader: The joy of performing vicarious work for the dead and the joy of doing missionary service have been discussed in previous lessons.) RECURRENT STAR OF LIGHT The birth of the Savior was announced to the world by a mani- festation of heavenly light — the special star above the shepherds' fields. Here, in the pastoral scene of Bethlehem of Judaea, Jesus began his earthly phase of being— "the Light of the World."' Prophecy had foreclaimed him to be such, and such he was and is, everlastingly. Each year' the theme of the Christ Child, who was born in a manger, of the giftbearing Magi, and of the heavenly choir and the guiding star of light, blesses the Christian world. It seems appropriate that aspects of the memorial Christmas theme be part of this lesson discussion. TIME FOR APPRAISAL Many traditional observances of Christmas vary from country to country and family to family throughout the Christian world. These festive activities may brighten the home and_ bring cheer to its members, but they have meaning only if they retain the purpose of the observance, only if they acknowledge the essential truth that Jesus, born in Bethlehem, is the Christ, the Light of the World; only if they lift to greater faith and greater love. The Latter-day Saint woman, believing this, well may use this season for an appraisal of her personal attitudes, the attitudes of her children, her relationship with close friends and social acquaintances. In considering her former Christmases, she may decide that certain traditional activities are rewarding, and wish to continue them; others she may feel should be discontinued or minimized. She may ask herself this question: Which of the following holiday season activities is most Lesson Department rewarding to me personally, to the family? (1) holiday social activities. (2) attractive house decor. (3) the exchange of gifts. (4) festive activities within the home, with family and relatives. (5) remembrance of friends through correspondence (Christmas cards). (6) religious discussion, selective reading of scripture or other writings relative to the meaning and spiritual aspects of life. (7) specific acts of compassionate service. Class Involvement Discuss, as time permits, the foregoing holiday activities. THEY CAST A LOVELY LIGHT Although the candle antedates the Christmas era by many centuries, its origin is obscure. It was the common source of indoor light in the Savior's time, often the only source, as it is today in some areas of the world. The mellow, golden flame is a symbol of comfort, of warmth, of home, bringing light into darkness. Seemingly as small as the flame of the candle, simple Christmas gifts may also cast a lovely light, enriching the Christmas scene and all human relations involved. They need not be costly, elaborate, beautiful, or large in size. They need only represent personal thoughtfulness, an inner desire to please another. Some simple gifts that have been fondly remembered are: (1) Several potatoes upon a baking tin, well scrubbed and oven ready. (2) Homemade jellies, fruit, or a home-baked loaf. (3) A promissory note to baby-sit, or to assist with ironing or other household activity (friend to friend). (4) An offer of transportation from friend or relative owning a car to one who does not or is unable to drive. 

715 September 1967

 (5) An original poem (child to parent).; Suggest others. It is of prime lmportance that some measure of love accompany the gift, for "The gift without the giver is bare' (James Russell Lowell: "Vision of Sir Launfal''). CONVERSATION OVERHEARD Following, is a pre-Christmas conversation. Speaking are: Jane, Alice, Myrtle, Florence, and Ruth: Jane: What are you women planning for Christmas this year, that's new or different from last year? Alice: I don't know about you, but I know what we're doing. We're being strictly practical. We spent too much money last year on frills. The children are past the toy and Santa Claus stage and so it's clothes for us. And no trimming up the house —believe me. The children can go to a movie in the afternoon if they want to. Myrtle: Alice, how could you! Not even a tree, and a wreath, and no garland on the stair, and no holly on the hearth? That's the main thing at our house. I've a dozen new decoration ideas, and our house will look simply luscious. The tree will be so beautiful the children won't even dare to touch it. Jane: Don't your children help trim the Christmas tree? Myrtle: They do not. Ours is not that kind of tree. They wouldn't know how. You know—special color scheme, lights and ornaments arranged just so. They just couldn't do it. Jane: Well ours do, even though it may look a bit haphazard. They love trimming the tree, and we let them put on anything they choose, from paper stars to painted bells, even real apples. I guess I'll have to admit we're pretty informal about Christmas. It's being together as a family that counts with us.

Florence: No one has mentioned music. Last year we went through all our records and songbooks. In fact, Christmas week was almost one continuous carol. Jim said he felt like an oratorio; but he liked it. He used to come home after work whistling one of the tunes, probably the last 716 MEXICO Air: Leaves October 6; Returns 14 & 20 HAWAII October 13 November 17 December 28 TEMPLE TOUR October 23 NEW ENGLAND Fall Foliage September For all travel and ticketing arrangements ARET is ne My 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 326. 8981 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 CHRISTMAS CRAFTS Gifts and Decorations Ask about Free Classes and Demonstrations in All Handicrafts Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, "Twenty-five Inexpensive Handicraft Projects" ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 one he had heard when he left in the morning. Jane: I know I'm going to do even more baking this year. I have two new recipes, and more sewing for the children. It saves so much money. But Ruth, you haven't said a word. Ruth: I'm listening. But 'm thinking also—remembering last Christmas and the resolution I made—late on Christmas night. Myrtle: Sounds exciting! Do tell—but youre so idealistic, and sentimental, and that's being impractical, these days. Ruth: Impractical! Idealism is the only practical thing there is. And needed, too. That's what I've decided. Well, if you really want to hear— All: We do! Ruth: We did a lot of planning last year—sort of followed all the rules. The children cooperated with trimming the tree and decorating the house. We didn't break the budget, though we spent enough. We baked delicious cookies and other things, sent the Christmas cards early. We didn't talk about the cost of gifts, the children didn't fuss, that is, not very much, and say they wish they had received more or different gifts. We invited all the family — even Aunt Suzy, and we had a wonderful time after dinner, family games and singing. Father even got in quite a bit about Bethlehem, and how the shepherds must have marvelled, seeing the star, hearing the heavenly choir. Then Father mentioned about how blessed we were, how very blessed, having security—our family I mean—a fine, warm home and everything. It was lovely. Still, when the day was over, Pat, she's our fifteen-year-old, said, "I wonder what Jennie's doing?" "Jennie, who's Jennie?" I asked. "Oh, she's a girl at school," she answered. "She lives in some little town, I don't know where, but too far away to go home for Christmas. Besides, she couldn't afford to go. She works on the side even to stay in school." "But didn't she have any place to go for Christmas? Not any relatives here?" Lesson Department BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6......... 90 Zone 3.......... 60 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 8..........1.20 Zone 5 8 "No, not anyone," Pat said, "but I don't suppose she'd mind it much. She's sort of a loner—and a book worm. She probably read all day." I looked at father and he looked silently at me. Then he asked, "Patsy, have you had a good Christmas day?" "I certainly have. Its been a wonderful day for us all, and I know you're right, Dad, about us being so blessed. Thanks, too; for all you and Mom did for us—the gifts I mean." She waited a minute, "Only, I keep I thinking of Jennie." After she had gone to bed, Father said, "Well, Ruth, that would have been a road to Bethlehem. We didn't take it." "We didn't," I answered. 'We missed the most important part— just thinking so much about ourselves. I hope this won't ever happen again, to us." Myrtle: What a fascinating story. Ruth: (Not seeming to hear her comment) "Jennie is gone, back to her little town, working in a store, sharing the family burdens. But there 

717 September 1967

 are other Jennies, Pat has located three of them at school, who will spend Christmas Eve and the following day with us. A convert boy from South America will join us for Christmas dinner. Jane: How ever can you make room? Ruth: That's no problem. Small children love sleeping on the floor for special occasions. We have other plans, too. We are more excited about this Christmas than we have ever been. Idealistic? Call it what you like. Alice: Something NEW, Id say, for your neighborhood! Ruth: Well, it may not be a very bright one, but there's going to be a new star in our neighborhood, this Christmas. Class Question What is the road to Bethlehem? How may the mother help family members, including herself, find the road? THE AUTHENTIC VOICE OF LOVE This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you (John 15:12). We cannot know, cannot understand the fulness of God's love for us, although we recognize its blessing upon our daily lives. We know that love is the very heart and basis of the gospel of his Son, Jesus the Christ. We know that love is an indispensable factor in human happiness. We know that For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life (John 3:16). We know that Jesus, the Christ, so loved his Father and all mankind that he spent his earth life serving them, even to the giving of his life for them. To love is the first commandment; service to others is its authentic voice. For Discussion Questions that appear in the lesson, plus those which may arise. Develop most fully those areas of special interest to the group. FOR HOME DOING Be a light, by giving some measure of yourself to someone who needs your understanding and love. Let the refining and spiritual influence of music be a part of your home atmosphere this Christmas season, remembering that "the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads" (D&C 25:12). Help the children to know that Christmas day is a day of days. Remind yourself and them that love, sharing, reverence, and gratitude are the important factors in a meaningful Christmas. (Note to Southern Hemisphere class leaders: Although this lesson will not be taught during the Christmas season in the Southern Hemisphere, it will allow time for evaluating plans to be made for the coming Christmas time.) CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family. No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. 718 LABOR DAY TOUR Bryce, Zion & Grand Sept. 2-4 MESA VERDE and CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR Sept. 23-29 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR Oct. 14-29 ROSE PARADE TOURS Via San Diego Via San Francisco Dec. 26-Jan. 2 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 COOK ELECT RIC Pots and pans stay "'white glove"' clean. If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT CLASS LEADERS... Four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces... Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12", 33% rpm _ record) Price complete. $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders—Send _ international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1! B.) Produced and distributed by DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL MEDIA SERVICES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH 84601 UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. Salt Lake City's Newest _ Handicraft Shop VIAN CRAFT & es NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper ma@ché jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, gold leafing, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ Free Instructions also available RaNae Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 719 10