[Vol37 | November 1950 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: 724 Mildred Bennion Eyring Appointed to the Relief Society General Board | Author: Leone G. Layton]
Mildred B. Eyring

Vol. 37 NOVEMBER 1950 No. 11

Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (1 segments, 9,947 chars) ===

'They had planned it during those long weeks in the spring when Mom had to lie in bed with rheumatic fever. There had been so many hours to talk things over and plan for birthdays and Christmas. "I know something we must buy for Dad's Christmas," Mom _ had said one day, "a white shirt. When he was getting ready for church last Sunday I noticed how shabby his shirt is, and it is the only white one he has. I've already turned the collar and now the cuffs are beginning to fray." "And _ every shirt to church," Jessie volunteered. A sudden shadow had 'crossed Mom's eyes. "My doctor bills have been such. A. Drain, Jessie. Your Daddy has gone without so. Many things he really needs. I've been thinking how nice it would be if we could really make his Christmas special this year. By June I'll be all well and strong. 'Then maybe I could work again.. Wouldn't xt be nice. To have our own money and to be able to buy him ties and several shirts. And a robe?" man wears a. White "T think it would be the nicest thing," Jessie had agreed eagerly. "And maybe I could help, too, if someone needs a baby sitter." Bur it was not until September that the first money went into their Christmas fund. For although Mom had been up since June, and seemed to be as well and full of life as before, Dad simply would not hear of her going to work; and all summer long it seemed that no one needed Jessie to mind children. Then one day in September, scarce- » ly two weeks before that never-to-beforgotten day when Mom was rushed to the hospital, Jessie came home from school to find her busy making an angel food cake, and she was beaming. "Jessie, just think, honey, Mrs. Price asked me to make a cake for a party she's having tonight. 'That will be a dollar toward our Christmas fund, and, who knows, by Christmas maybe I'll have a chance to bake a dozen cakes." That had been a memorable afternoon. Jessie had helped whip egg whites and sift sugar and flour, and all the while she and Mom had talked about the fun they would have surprising Dad. 'That night they had taken the precious: dollar and put it in a little blue china vase on the highest cupboard shelf. It was the -last time Jessie had thought anything about the money until one day just after '