[Vol37 | November 1950 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: 729 Thanksgiving | Author: Louise Spencer]
Thanksgiving. 'Then she took the vase down, and emptied its contents into her hand—one round, silver dollar. Tears ran down her cheeks as she remembered the cake-baking day. There wouldn't be enough money to buy the things they had planned, A STAR IS SHINING but maybe there would be enough for the white shirt if she could earn a dollar before Christmas. Maybe Mrs. Roberts would want to do some Christmas shopping and would need a baby sitter now since Gary was born. Jessie decided to stop by and ask her. And Mrs. Roberts had been so sweet, especially when Jessie told her about the white shirt. "Why, yes, Jessie, I'll be very glad if you'll stay with him, maybe next Friday after school." She had stayed on Friday afternoon and then last Saturday morning. Now she had the money—two dollars here in her purse, and it would buy a white shirt. Samuelson's had advertised them for a dollar and ninety-five cents. Dad would have a new white shirt even if she couldn't get any of the other things she and Mom had talked about. He wouldn't have to look shabby in church any more. Jessie smiled a little, could it be possible that Mom might know? She _ had thought when she looked at Mom's picture this morning that her smile seemed unusually bright. It was almost as if she were going to say, "Good girl, Jessie." The snow had stopped falling when she got off the bus, and the magic of the storm seemed to have transformed the town into a fairyland, adding glamour to each festive street. Over the silvery, frosted air, the voices of a choral group rang out: "O come all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant, come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem." ee walked slowly, drinking in ' the beauty of the song. The streets were crowded. People, their 733 arms filled with packages, were hurtying in every direction. Everyone but a small boy in an old, brown topcoat. He was standing by Samuelson's window, his face pressed against the pane, his eyes glued to the silver Christmas tree with its trimmings of glistening red_ balls. No one seemed to notice him especially, for any child will stop to look at a Christmas tree. But something about the way he was standing, the look in his eyes, told Jessie that he was unhappy. And because all her life she had been taught to be kind, it was instinctive to stop beside him. "It's a beautiful tree isn't it?" she said. And when he turned to look at her she could see the trace of tears in his eyes. "Is something wrong?" she asked sympathetically. Although he couldn't have been more than eight years old, there was a certain manliness about him. "No," he answered, squaring his shoulders, "I was just wishin'." "Wishin' what?" "Wishin' that I had a Christmas nec." "But everybody has a Christmas tree." "T haven't." In spite of him the tears were near spilling. "Gram says Santa Claus can't bring trees, he's got too much else to bring." "Do you live with your grandma?" Jessie asked. "IT do. Now—Mom died." "Oh." There was sympathy and understanding in her voice. She knew how he felt; they had experienced the same heart-crushing loss —knew the same loneliness. "Tm _ Jessie," she said kindly. "What's your name?" 734 "Terry Willis." "But, Terry, you've got to have a tree. Couldn't your Grandma buy one?" He shook his head. "She hasn't enough money." Jessie didn't answer then. She was suddenly very conscious of the two dollars in her purse. Two dollars would buy a Christmas tree. But she couldn't buy a tree with that money. No, of course she couldn't. That money was to buy a shirt for Dad, a shirt from Mom as well as herself. They had always given Dad a Christmas present; it wouldn't be Christmas without doing that. And Dad needed the shirt, Mom had said so, too, and she had left a dollar to help buy it. But what about a boy without a Christmas tree? And there was something. So pleading in Terry's face looking up at her. What could she do? A strange sort of conflict was going on within her. The money in her purse—it belonged to Mom, too. Mom—what would Mom do? Mom would buy a tree for Terry, of course. The answer came instantly, as if someone had spoken it. A strange sort of warmth filled Jessie then. The conflict was gone; she knew the answer. "Terry, I'll buy you a Christmas tree," she promised. His face lighted instantly. "You will? Have you got the money, Jessie?" "Yes, Terry, right here in my purse. Where do you live?" "Just a block up and one over. Gee, wonder what Gram will say when I bring home a tree?" He was jubilant. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1950 In the next block they found a man selling trees, and he seemed to be anxious to get rid of them. "Do you have any for two dollars?" Jessie asked a bit timidly. The man eyed them kindly. "Wait," he said. He was gone only a few minutes, and when he returned he was carrying a little tree. It was a bit stragely, but not too bad. "This was two dollars. You can have it for one. Won't be bad when it's trimmed up." I all handed him the money. There was still a dollar left. Maybe she could still) buy something for Dad. Terry picked up the tree. His face was radiant. "Will you come and help me trim it?" he asked. "Well, I guess I. Can if I don't stay too long. Have you got any trimmings, Terry?" The light went out of his face. "Gee, I never thought of that, but maybe Gram's got something." Jessie knew that it wasn't likely his Gram would have anything, at least not any glistening ornaments or silver icicles. 'There was still a dollar in her purse, and maybe a dollar wouldn't buy a very good tie, but a tree without trimmings was as good as no tree at all. A little while later Jessie followed her new friend through the door of a small, shabby-looking house at the end of a narrow street. Terry was proudly carrying the tree, and under her arm Jessie held a box of blue ornaments and another of silver icicles. The room they entered was quite bare, but very clean, and warm from the fire glowing in the little heating stove. A STAR IS SHINING "Gram," Terry called, "come and see what I've got." From the adjoining room came a thin, frail-looking woman, with soft, gray hair and a face that expressed gentle kindness. She looked from Terry to Jessie in complete surprise. "Gram, just look," cried the boy, "a Christmas tree and trimmings! This is Jessie, Gram. She got them for me." "Jessie," she smiled warmly. "What a nice surprise. So you buy a tree for my boy. Come by the stove and take off your coat. Now tell me how you knew Terry needed a tree." Briefly Jessie related her